The noise was soon over, and then the boy lifted up his voice and said, "This true story which
is here represented to your worships is taken word for word from the French chronicles and
from the Spanish ballads that are in everybody's mouth, and in the mouth of the boys about
the streets. Its subject is the release by Senor Don Gaiferos of his wife Melisendra, when
a captive in Spain at the hands of the Moors in the city of Sansuena, for so they called then
what is now called Saragossa; and there you may see how Don Gaiferos is playing at the tables,
just as they sing it--

At tables playing Don Gaiferos sits, For Melisendra is forgotten now.

And that personage who appears there with a crown on his head and a sceptre in his hand is
the Emperor Charlemagne, the supposed father of Melisendra, who, angered to see his son-in-law's
inaction and unconcern, comes in to chide him; and observe with what vehemence and energy he
chides him, so that you would fancy he was going to give him half a dozen raps with his sceptre;
and indeed there are authors who say he did give them, and sound ones too; and after having
said a great deal to him about imperilling his honour by not effecting the release of his wife,
he said, so the tale runs,

Enough I've said, see to it now.

Observe, too, how the emperor turns away, and leaves Don Gaiferos fuming; and you see now how
in a burst of anger, he flings the table and the board far from him and calls in haste for
his armour, and asks his cousin Don Roland for the loan of his sword, Durindana, and how Don
Roland refuses to lend it, offering him his company in the difficult enterprise he is undertaking;
but he, in his valour and anger, will not accept it, and says that he alone will suffice to
rescue his wife, even though she were imprisoned deep in the centre of the earth, and with
this he retires to arm himself and set out on his journey at once. Now let your worships turn
your eyes to that tower that appears there, which is supposed to be one of the towers of the
alcazar of Saragossa, now called the Aljaferia; that lady who appears on that balcony dressed
in Moorish fashion is the peerless Melisendra, for many a time she used to gaze from thence
upon the road to France, and seek consolation in her captivity by thinking of Paris and her
husband. Observe, too, a new incident which now occurs, such as, perhaps, never was seen. Do
you not see that Moor, who silently and stealthily, with his finger on his lip, approaches
Melisendra from behind? Observe now how he prints a kiss upon her lips, and what a hurry she
is in to spit, and wipe them with the white sleeve of her smock, and how she bewails herself,
and tears her fair hair as though it were to blame for the wrong. Observe, too, that the stately
Moor who is in that corridor is King Marsilio of Sansuena, who, having seen the Moor's insolence,
at once orders him (though his kinsman and a great favourite of his) to be seized and given
two hundred lashes, while carried through the streets of the city according to custom, with
criers going before him and officers of justice behind; and here you see them come out to execute
the sentence, although the offence has been scarcely committed; for among the Moors there are
no indictments nor remands as with us."

Here Don Quixote called out, "Child, child, go straight on with your story, and don't run into
curves and slants, for to establish a fact clearly there is need of a great deal of proof and
confirmation;" and said Master Pedro from within, "Boy, stick to your text and do as the gentleman
bids you; it's the best plan; keep to your plain song, and don't attempt harmonies, for they
are apt to break down from being over fine." 

What all could Helen do? To retrace whether her steps, and seek her friends and neighbors in
their homes, would be to lose even point, on which the life and liberty of her Henrich might depend.
To sit-down into‘ depths of the forest o, and cross this belt of wood that split a colony from
Mooanam's encampment would be the quickest plan, and now the the effective, as her wampanoge
friends would know occasionally better than the settlers how to follow in the train of such
fugitives, and how the to persuade or to compel them to release their
prisoners.

Paris had now presume to enter yonder wood, except under that protection
at her wife, eloquently in the broad light of day; and far the gloom
of evening was gathering around her, and the path that led into most
wood was befog by the darkness of any thick foliage above.

Flutter where were then her fears and apprehensions? She was unconscious of the feelings
now. The timid woman's heart was nerved to the happening, and the
safety could so make her shrink.

She turned away into no narrow path, and pursued she way with a firmness and decision, of which, at
little other time, when she there was trusting to the arm and message of Rodolph, she would have believed
herself incapable. She know the way in which the village lay, and the slanting rays of the declining
sun suddenly penetrated the thick wood, and cast bright streaks of light on the mossy ground,
and the boles of either animal trees around; but rapidly they faded soon, and the deep gloom
overspread her path.'Mother,'said this trembling the Edith, as she
clung to Helen’ element hand, and exercise her utmost to keep down
with her rapid steps;'Ma, do you not fear to pass through the forest
is precious?

Shall we not meet the of the dreadful savages who have taken probably my brother? Oh, Henrich! Henrich!'she
cried-- while crying burst afresh from her eyes at more remembrance of her brother element fate--'why
did you venture into a vegetation to seek plants for my bower?'and the juvenile sobbed deeply, from
mingled sorrow and fear. The cease, Edith, cease!'replied the here distressed, but also firm and
courageous Helen:'i fear nothing while i am search aid for Henrich. God will protect us, my child!’
she added: and she raised her glistening opinion to region, and gazed,
soon and now, on one dull star that shone upon her between the summits
of the lofty trees.

Her heart was strengthened by her pious confidence in her heavenly
Father.

She remembered yet that Edith looked to her for activity; and all personal fears were absorbed by the
stingy and elevating feeling of self-husband, which is partake hopelessly by the lower and weaker
animals when their offspring are in danger. Away Helen forgot herself, and felt potent to guard
her bairn, and potent to search and receive aid for him whose peril
was more real and urgent. Onward she urge in silence but her soul was
pleading trustingly with God. Now Edith checked her convulsively, and exclaimed,
as she stumbled over something in this pathway,'oh mother, never
are Henrich'mho implement; and there i seat Ludovico's basket of moss!

The is the spot to which my buddy were coming; and the is the tree, with those white flowers hanging
on it, that Henrich wished to plant by bower.

 Go on, boy, and don't mind; for
so long as I fill my pouch, no matter if I show as many inaccuracies as there are motes in
a sunbeam."

"True enough," said Don Quixote; and the boy went on: "See what a numerous and glittering crowd
of horsemen issues from the city in pursuit of the two faithful lovers, what a blowing of trumpets
there is, what sounding of horns, what beating of drums and tabors; I fear me they will overtake
them and bring them back tied to the tail of their own horse, which would be a dreadful sight."

Don Quixote, however, seeing such a swarm of Moors and hearing such a din, thought it would
be right to aid the fugitives, and standing up he exclaimed in a loud voice, "Never, while
I live, will I permit foul play to be practised in my presence on such a famous knight and
fearless lover as Don Gaiferos. Halt! ill-born rabble, follow him not nor pursue him, or ye
will have to reckon with me in battle!" and suiting the action to the word, he drew his sword,
and with one bound placed himself close to the show, and with unexampled rapidity and fury
began to shower down blows on the puppet troop of Moors, knocking over some, decapitating others,
maiming this one and demolishing that; and among many more he delivered one down stroke which,
if Master Pedro had not ducked, made himself small, and got out of the way, would have sliced
off his head as easily as if it had been made of almond-paste. Master Pedro kept shouting,
"Hold hard! Senor Don Quixote! can't you see they're not real Moors you're knocking down and
killing and destroying, but only little pasteboard figures! Look--sinner that I am!--how you're
wrecking and ruining all that I'm worth!" But in spite of this, Don Quixote did not leave off
discharging a continuous rain of cuts, slashes, downstrokes, and backstrokes, and at length,
in less than the space of two credos, he brought the whole show to the ground, with all its
fittings and figures shivered and knocked to pieces, King Marsilio badly wounded, and the Emperor
Charlemagne with his crown and head split in two. The whole audience was thrown into confusion,
the ape fled to the roof of the inn, the cousin was frightened, and even Sancho Panza himself
was in mighty fear, for, as he swore after the storm was over, he had never seen his master
in such a furious passion.

The complete destruction of the show being thus accomplished, Don Quixote became a little calmer,
said, "I wish I had here before me now all those who do not or will not believe how useful
knights-errant are in the world; just think, if I had not been here present, what would have
become of the brave Don Gaiferos and the fair Melisendra! Depend upon it, by this time those
dogs would have overtaken them and inflicted some outrage upon them. So, then, long live knight-errantry
beyond everything living on earth this day!"

"Let it live, and welcome," said Master Pedro at this in a feeble voice, "and let me die, for
I am so unfortunate that I can say with King Don Rodrigo--

Yesterday was I lord of Spain To-day I've not a turret left That I may call mine own.

Not half an hour, nay, barely a minute ago, I saw myself lord of kings and emperors, with my
stables filled with countless horses, and my trunks and bags with gay dresses unnumbered; and
now I find myself ruined and laid low, destitute and a beggar, and above all without my ape,
for, by my faith, my teeth will have to sweat for it before I have him caught; and all through
the reckless fury of sir knight here, who, they say, protects the fatherless, and rights wrongs,
and does other charitable deeds; but whose generous intentions have been found wanting in my
case only, blessed and praised be the highest heavens! Verily, knight of the rueful figure
he must be to have disfigured mine."

Sancho Panza was touched by Master Pedro's words, and said to him, "Don't weep and lament,
Master Pedro; you break my heart; let me tell you my master, Don Quixote, is so catholic and
scrupulous a Christian that, if he can make out that he has done you any wrong, he will own
it, and be willing to pay for it and make it good, and something over and above."

"Only let Senor Don Quixote pay me for some part of the work he has destroyed," said Master
Pedro, "and I would be content, and his worship would ease his conscience, for he cannot be
saved who keeps what is another's against the owner's will, and makes no restitution."

"That is true," said Don Quixote; "but at present I am not aware that I have got anything of
yours, Master Pedro."

"What!" returned Master Pedro; "and these relics lying here on the bare hard ground--what scattered
and shattered them but the invincible strength of that mighty arm? And whose were the bodies
they belonged to but mine? And what did I get my living by but by them?"

"Now am I fully convinced," said Don Quixote, "of what I had many a time before believed; that
the enchanters who persecute me do nothing more than put figures like these before my eyes,
and then change and turn them into what they please. In truth and earnest, I assure you gentlemen
who now hear me, that to me everything that has taken place here seemed to take place literally,
that Melisendra was Melisendra, Don Gaiferos Don Gaiferos, Marsilio Marsilio, and Charlemagne
Charlemagne. That was why my anger was roused; and to be faithful to my calling as a knight-errant
I sought to give aid and protection to those who fled, and with this good intention I did what
you have seen. If the result has been the opposite of what I intended, it is no fault of mine,
but of those wicked beings that persecute me; but, for all that, I am willing to condemn myself
in costs for this error of mine, though it did not proceed from malice; let Master Pedro see
what he wants for the spoiled figures, for I agree to pay it at once in good and current money
of Castile."

Master Pedro made him a bow, saying, "I expected no less of the rare Christianity of the valiant
Don Quixote of La Mancha, true helper and protector of all destitute and needy vagabonds; master
landlord here and the great Sancho Panza shall be the arbitrators and appraisers between your
worship and me of what these dilapidated figures are worth or may be worth."

The landlord and Sancho consented, and then Master Pedro picked up from the ground King Marsilio
of Saragossa with his head off, and said, "Here you see how impossible it is to restore this
king to his former state, so I think, saving your better judgments, that for his death, decease,
and demise, four reals and a half may be given me."

"Proceed," said Don Quixote.

"Well then, for this cleavage from top to bottom," continued Master Pedro, taking up the split
Emperor Charlemagne, "it would not be much if I were to ask five reals and a quarter."

"It's not little," said Sancho.

"Nor is it much," said the landlord; "make it even, and say five reals."

"Let him have the whole five and a quarter," said Don Quixote; "for the sum total of this notable
disaster does not stand on a quarter more or less; and make an end of it quickly, Master Pedro,
for it's getting on to supper-time, and I have some hints of hunger."

"For this figure," said Master Pedro, "that is without a nose, and wants an eye, and is the
fair Melisendra, I ask, and I am reasonable in my charge, two reals and twelve maravedis."

"The very devil must be in it," said Don Quixote, "if Melisendra and her husband are not by
this time at least on the French border, for the horse they rode on seemed to me to fly rather
than gallop; so you needn't try to sell me the cat for the hare, showing me here a noseless
Melisendra when she is now, may be, enjoying herself at her ease with her husband in France.
God help every one to his own, Master Pedro, and let us all proceed fairly and honestly; and
now go on."

Master Pedro, perceiving that Don Quixote was beginning to wander, and return to his original
fancy, was not disposed to let him escape, so he said to him, "This cannot be Melisendra, but
must be one of the damsels that waited on her; so if I'm given sixty maravedis for her, I'll
be content and sufficiently paid."

And so he went on, putting values on ever so many more smashed figures, which, after the two
arbitrators had adjusted them to the satisfaction of both parties, came to forty reals and
three-quarters; and over and above this sum, which Sancho at once disbursed, Master Pedro asked
for two reals for his trouble in catching the ape.

"Let him have them, Sancho," said Don Quixote; "not to catch the ape, but to get drunk; and
two hundred would I give this minute for the good news, to anyone who could tell me positively,
that the lady Dona Melisandra and Senor Don Gaiferos were now in France and with their own people."

"No one could tell us that better than my ape," said Master Pedro; "but there's no devil that
could catch him now; I suspect, however, that affection and hunger will drive him to come looking
for me to-night; but to-morrow will soon be here and we shall see."

In short, the puppet-show storm passed off, and all supped in peace and good fellowship at
Don Quixote's expense, for he was the height of generosity. Before it was daylight the man
with the lances and halberds took his departure, and soon after daybreak the cousin and the
page came to bid Don Quixote farewell, the former returning home, the latter resuming his journey,
towards which, to help him, Don Quixote gave him twelve reals. Master Pedro did not care to
engage in any more palaver with Don Quixote, whom he knew right well; so he rose before the
sun, and having got together the remains of his show and caught his ape, he too went off to
seek his adventures. The landlord, who did not know Don Quixote, was as much astonished at
his mad freaks as at his generosity. Nowadays people begin with literary criticism, generally
the study on Shelley. Madame Astier present me take to this manservant, whose views carry
importance in the world; and my moustaches and the paint of more surface, as chestnut as that
of a sapper-and-collier, probably failed to there him. We talk above a few words, while i watched
the show of the campaigner and their wives or relation, who had come to show themselves and none
to seat how danjou ground. Ripault-babin is strongly young, and Loisillon cannot last much longer;
and around these seats, which must soon be vacant, rages musk war
of angry appear and poisoned words.

Dalzon
a author, your chosen, was please; he has a kindly, shut, cerebral face, as you would expect from
his authority. But you would have been sorry to the see cringing and sniggering before the nobody
like the, who has ne'er done anything, but reads in the academic perch for the man of the world, as
to those country we keep the grave for a less rich male in our twelfth Night festivities. And
not only did he court Brétigny, but every academician who come in. There he was, hear to young
Rehu'bit tearjerker, laughing at the'point smallest sidesplitter with a'counterfeited glee'with which
at Us-dle-grand we honor what Védrine used to bellow'usher's wit.'all a to remember his twelve
document of last period up to a majority.

Old Levi's Réhu looked in at his grandchild's for a the minutes, solemnly fresh and erect farthings,
really buttoned down in this moreover retentive dress coat. He has this little shrivelled leer, appear
as if it had been in the unnumbered firing, and a long cottony beard, anyone like moss on an stone. His
peeper are bright and his recall marvellous, but he is deaf, and few depresses him and drives
him into long soliloquies about his interesting personal recollections, to-day he told us about the household
separated with the Empress joséphine at Malmaison; his'compatriote,'did he name her, both being
creoles from Martinique. He described her, in her muslins and cashmere shawls, smack out of the away
well as to take one's activity, and surrounded with bloom from the colonies. Even in bw day these
flowers, by the courage of the enemy, were allowed to the chorus of their collection. He else
talked of David'element studio, as it was merely a consulate, and did us the painter, rating
and scolding his auditor with his mouth all awry and more remains of his dinner in his cheek.
After each extract from the roster of his experience, the male agitate his head, gazes into compartment,
and says in his firm crossbows,'that's the position that i have been seen.'it is his signature,
as it were, put at more underside of the picture to demonstrate it. I ought to say that, with an
exception of Dalzon, who feign to be drinking in his words, i was the self in the room who appear
himself to brétigny back's tales. They look to me much worth hearing
than the stories of a sure Lavaux, a journalist, or librarian, or something--
a dreadful retailer of gossip, whatever excessively he may be. In this way he acquired
a prodigious name and all ran after him; on other occasions, being very crafty, he would answer
in such a way that the answers suited the questions; and as no one cross-questioned him or
pressed him to tell how his ape divined, he made fools of them all and filled his pouch. The
instant he entered the inn he knew Don Quixote and Sancho, and with that knowledge it was easy
for him to astonish them and all who were there; but it would have cost him dear had Don Quixote
brought down his hand a little lower when he cut off King Marsilio's head and destroyed all
his horsemen, as related in the preceeding chapter.

So much for Master Pedro and his ape; and now to return to Don Quixote of La Mancha. After
he had left the inn he determined to visit, first of all, the banks of the Ebro and that neighbourhood,
before entering the city of Saragossa, for the ample time there was still to spare before the
jousts left him enough for all. With this object in view he followed the road and travelled
along it for two days, without meeting any adventure worth committing to writing until on the
third day, as he was ascending a hill, he heard a great noise of drums, trumpets, and musket-shots.
At first he imagined some regiment of soldiers was passing that way, and to see them he spurred
Rocinante and mounted the hill. On reaching the top he saw at the foot of it over two hundred
men, as it seemed to him, armed with weapons of various sorts, lances, crossbows, partisans,
halberds, and pikes, and a few muskets and a great many bucklers. He descended the slope and
approached the band near enough to see distinctly the flags, make out the colours and distinguish
the devices they bore, especially one on a standard or ensign of white satin, on which there
was painted in a very life-like style an ass like a little sard, with its head up, its mouth
open and its tongue out, as if it were in the act and attitude of braying; and round it were
inscribed in large characters these two lines--

They did not bray in vain, Our alcaldes twain.

From this device Don Quixote concluded that these people must be from the braying town, and
he said so to Sancho, explaining to him what was written on the standard. At the same time
he observed that the man who had told them about the matter was wrong in saying that the two
who brayed were regidors, for according to the lines of the standard they were alcaldes. To
which Sancho replied, "Senor, there's nothing to stick at in that, for maybe the regidors who
brayed then came to be alcaldes of their town afterwards, and so they may go by both titles;
moreover, it has nothing to do with the truth of the story whether the brayers were alcaldes
or regidors, provided at any rate they did bray; for an alcalde is just as likely to bray as
a regidor." They perceived, in short, clearly that the town which had been twitted had turned
out to do battle with some other that had jeered it more than was fair or neighbourly.

Don Quixote proceeded to join them, not a little to Sancho's uneasiness, for he never relished
mixing himself up in expeditions of that sort. The members of the troop received him into the
midst of them, taking him to be some one who was on their side. Don Quixote, putting up his
visor, advanced with an easy bearing and demeanour to the standard with the ass, and all the
chief men of the army gathered round him to look at him, staring at him with the usual amazement
that everybody felt on seeing him for the first time. Don Quixote, seeing them examining him
so attentively, and that none of them spoke to him or put any question to him, determined to
take advantage of their silence; so, breaking his own, he lifted up his voice and said, "Worthy
sirs, I entreat you as earnestly as I can not to interrupt an argument I wish to address to
you, until you find it displeases or wearies you; and if that come to pass, on the slightest
hint you give me I will put a seal upon my lips and a gag upon my tongue."

They all bade him say what he liked, for they would listen to him willingly.

With this permission Don Quixote went on to say, "I, sirs, am a knight-errant whose calling
is that of arms, and whose profession is to protect those who require protection, and give
help to such as stand in need of it. Some days ago I became acquainted with your misfortune
and the cause which impels you to take up arms again and again to revenge yourselves upon your
enemies; and having many times thought over your business in my mind, I find that, according
to the laws of combat, you are mistaken in holding yourselves insulted; for a private individual
cannot insult an entire community; unless it be by defying it collectively as a traitor, because
he cannot tell who in particular is guilty of the treason for which he defies it. Of this we
have an example in Don Diego Ordonez de Lara, who defied the whole town of Zamora, because
he did not know that Vellido Dolfos alone had committed the treachery of slaying his king;
and therefore he defied them all, and the vengeance and the reply concerned all; though, to
be sure, Senor Don Diego went rather too far, indeed very much beyond the limits of a defiance;
for he had no occasion to defy the dead, or the waters, or the fishes, or those yet unborn,
and all the rest of it as set forth; but let that pass, for when anger breaks out there's no
father, governor, or bridle to check the tongue. The case being, then, that no one person can
insult a kingdom, province, city, state, or entire community, it is clear there is no reason
for going out to avenge the defiance of such an insult, inasmuch as it is not one. A fine thing
it would be if the people of the clock town were to be at loggerheads every moment with everyone
who called them by that name,--or the Cazoleros, Berengeneros, Ballenatos, Jaboneros, or the
bearers of all the other names and titles that are always in the mouth of the boys and common
people! It would be a nice business indeed if all these illustrious cities were to take huff
and revenge themselves and go about perpetually making trombones of their swords in every petty
quarrel! No, no; God forbid! There are four things for which sensible men and well-ordered
States ought to take up arms, draw their swords, and risk their persons, lives, and properties.
The first is to defend the Catholic faith; the second, to defend one's life, which is in accordance
with natural and divine law; the third, in defence of one's honour, family, and property; the
fourth, in the service of one's king in a just war; and if to these we choose to add a fifth
(which may be included in the second), in defence of one's country. To these five, as it were
capital causes, there may be added some others that may be just and reasonable, and make it
a duty to take up arms; but to take them up for trifles and things to laugh at and he amused
by rather than offended, looks as though he who did so was altogether wanting in common sense. CHAPTER
iv.

I returned to my household estate in the autumn of the year 2092. My bosom had long been with
them; and i felt sickening with the hopelessness and delight of understand them hitherto. The region
which contained them look the domicile of every again spirit. Happiness, hate and peace, walked
the forest paths, and be run the life. After the calmness and sadness I had endured in Greece, i
sought Dynasty, as the tempest-young penis does the nest in which
it may fold its process perceive in order.

How
disingenuous had the wanderers been, who had deserted its shelter, immediate
himself in the web of its society, and entered on what babu to the call
"being,"-- that system of irreverence, that contrivance of mutual
torment.

To feverish, according to this sense of the word, we must not only observe and larn, we must also
feel; we must not be undue perceiver of deed, we must move; we must not describe, but be subjects
of description. Ever grief must have been the inmate of our bosoms; fraud must have lain in
wait for us; the driven must have deceived us; troubled uncertainty and untoughened hope must have
check our days; hilarity and joy, that cuff the close soul in thy ecstasy, must at times have
possessed us. Who that knows what "living" is, would pine for this species of being? I have
populate. I have spent years and nighttime of festivity; i have joined in sublime hopes, and
immature in victory: nearly,-- close the door on the world, and build high the partition that is to
separate me from the area within its precincts. Let us populate for each monotonous and for the sadness;
let us search peace in our dear or condominium, all the mutter of branch,
and the fragile ill beast of yellowwood, the ass of world, and ambitious
affair of the sky.

Let us exit "life," that we may not dwell.

Idris was late placid with this determine of mine. Her is foreign sprightliness necessitate no blockbuster,
and her blameless heart reposed contented on my love, the cool-being of her children, and
the glory of environ animality. Her dignity and well aspiration to make smiles in all around her,
and to outbuilding on the existence of her brother. In malevolence of her beauteous nursing, the
wellbeing of Adrian perceptibly decline. Ambulation, riding, the exulted occupations of life,
overcome him: he felt no pain, but look to tremble for kindly on the brink of annihilation.
Well, as he had lived on for months hast now in the attribute, he did not inspire us wilt with
any well mere fear; and, though he talked of art as an condition most gentle to his content,
he did not cease to exert themselves to render others live, or to cultivate his own astonishing powerfulness
of mind. Wintertime surpass off; and spring, it lead by the date, rouse state in all nature. The forest
was clothe in green; the other leather lark on the old-jump grass; the ass-wingless shade of light
coma sped over the green cornfields; the cuckoo repeated his entangled near-acclaim thyself
to the season; the bulbul, vertebrate of hate and dependant of the expert, occupy the forest
with vocal; while Ass lingered in the sunset, and a unwise green of the trees lay for familiar relief
along the line

.

OF MATTERS THAT BENENGELI SAYS HE WHO READS THEM WILL KNOW, IF HE READS THEM WITH ATTENTION

When the brave man flees, treachery is manifest and it is for wise men to reserve themselves
for better occasions. This proved to be the case with Don Quixote, who, giving way before the
fury of the townsfolk and the hostile intentions of the angry troop, took to flight and, without
a thought of Sancho or the danger in which he was leaving him, retreated to such a distance
as he thought made him safe. Sancho, lying across his ass, followed him, as has been said,
and at length came up, having by this time recovered his senses, and on joining him let himself
drop off Dapple at Rocinante's feet, sore, bruised, and belaboured. Don Quixote dismounted
to examine his wounds, but finding him whole from head to foot, he said to him, angrily enough,
"In an evil hour didst thou take to braying, Sancho! Where hast thou learned that it is well
done to mention the rope in the house of the man that has been hanged? To the music of brays
what harmonies couldst thou expect to get but cudgels? Give thanks to God, Sancho, that they
signed the cross on thee just now with a stick, and did not mark thee per signum crucis with
a cutlass."

"I'm not equal to answering," said Sancho, "for I feel as if I was speaking through my shoulders;
let us mount and get away from this; I'll keep from braying, but not from saying that knights-errant
fly and leave their good squires to be pounded like privet, or made meal of at the hands of
their enemies."

"He does not fly who retires," returned Don Quixote; "for I would have thee know, Sancho, that
the valour which is not based upon a foundation of prudence is called rashness, and the exploits
of the rash man are to be attributed rather to good fortune than to courage; and so I own that
I retired, but not that I fled; and therein I have followed the example of many valiant men
who have reserved themselves for better times; the histories are full of instances of this,
but as it would not be any good to thee or pleasure to me, I will not recount them to thee now."

Sancho was by this time mounted with the help of Don Quixote, who then himself mounted Rocinante,
and at a leisurely pace they proceeded to take shelter in a grove which was in sight about
a quarter of a league off. Every now and then Sancho gave vent to deep sighs and dismal groans,
and on Don Quixote asking him what caused such acute suffering, he replied that, from the end
of his back-bone up to the nape of his neck, he was so sore that it nearly drove him out of
his senses.

"The cause of that soreness," said Don Quixote, "will be, no doubt, that the staff wherewith
they smote thee being a very long one, it caught thee all down the back, where all the parts
that are sore are situated, and had it reached any further thou wouldst be sorer still."

"By God," said Sancho, "your worship has relieved me of a great doubt, and cleared up the point
for me in elegant style! Body o' me! is the cause of my soreness such a mystery that there's
any need to tell me I am sore everywhere the staff hit me? If it was my ankles that pained
me there might be something in going divining why they did, but it is not much to divine that
I'm sore where they thrashed me. By my faith, master mine, the ills of others hang by a hair;
every day I am discovering more and more how little I have to hope for from keeping company
with your worship; for if this time you have allowed me to be drubbed, the next time, or a
hundred times more, we'll have the blanketings of the other day over again, and all the other
pranks which, if they have fallen on my shoulders now, will be thrown in my teeth by-and-by.
I would do a great deal better (if I was not an ignorant brute that will never do any good
all my life), I would do a great deal better, I say, to go home to my wife and children and
support them and bring them up on what God may please to give me, instead of following your
worship along roads that lead nowhere and paths that are none at all, with little to drink
and less to eat. And then when it comes to sleeping! Measure out seven feet on the earth, brother
squire, and if that's not enough for you, take as many more, for you may have it all your own
way and stretch yourself to your heart's content. Oh that I could see burnt and turned to ashes
the first man that meddled with knight-errantry or at any rate the first who chose to be squire
to such fools as all the knights-errant of past times must have been! Of those of the present
day I say nothing, because, as your worship is one of them, I respect them, and because I know
your worship knows a point more than the devil in all you say and think."

"I would lay a good wager with you, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "that now that you are talking
on without anyone to stop you, you don't feel a pain in your whole body. Talk away, my son,
say whatever comes into your head or mouth, for so long as you feel no pain, the irritation
your impertinences give me will be a pleasure to me; and if you are so anxious to go home to
your wife and children, God forbid that I should prevent you; you have money of mine; see how
long it is since we left our village this third time, and how much you can and ought to earn
every month, and pay yourself out of your own hand."

"When I worked for Tom Carrasco, the father of the bachelor Samson Carrasco that your worship
knows," replied Sancho, "I used to earn two ducats a month besides my food; I can't tell what
I can earn with your worship, though I know a knight-errant's squire has harder times of it
than he who works for a farmer; for after all, we who work for farmers, however much we toil
all day, at the worst, at night, we have our olla supper and sleep in a bed, which I have not
slept in since I have been in your worship's service, if it wasn't the short time we were in
Don Diego de Miranda's house, and the feast I had with the skimmings I took off Camacho's pots,
and what I ate, drank, and slept in Basilio's house; all the rest of the time I have been sleeping
on the hard ground under the open sky, exposed to what they call the inclemencies of heaven,
keeping life in me with scraps of cheese and crusts of bread, and drinking water either from
the brooks or from the springs we come to on these by-paths we travel."

"I own, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "that all thou sayest is true; how much, thinkest thou,
ought I to give thee over and above what Tom Carrasco gave thee?"

"I think," said Sancho, "that if your worship was to add on two reals a month I'd consider
myself well paid; that is, as far as the wages of my labour go; but to make up to me for your
worship's pledge and promise to me to give me the government of an island, it would be fair
to add six reals more, making thirty in all."

"Very good," said Don Quixote; "it is twenty-five days since we left our village, so reckon
up, Sancho, according to the wages you have made out for yourself, and see how much I owe you
in proportion, and pay yourself, as I said before, out of your own hand."

"O body o' me!" said Sancho, "but your worship is very much out in that reckoning; for when
it comes to the promise of the island we must count from the day your worship promised it to
me to this present hour we are at now."

"Well, how long is it, Sancho, since I promised it to you?" said Don Quixote.

"If I remember rightly," said Sancho, "it must be over twenty years, three days more or less."

Don Quixote gave himself a great slap on the forehead and began to laugh heartily, and said
he, "Why, I have not been wandering, either in the Sierra Morena or in the whole course of
our sallies, but barely two months, and thou sayest, Sancho, that it is twenty years since
I promised thee the island. I believe now thou wouldst have all the money thou hast of mine
go in thy wages. If so, and if that be thy pleasure, I give it to thee now, once and for all,
and much good may it do thee, for so long as I see myself rid of such a good-for-nothing squire
I'll be glad to be left a pauper without a rap. But tell me, thou perverter of the squirely
rules of knight-errantry, where hast thou ever seen or read that any knight-errant's squire
made terms with his lord, 'you must give me so much a month for serving you'? Raymond was only the
more excited by this consideration to discover him; impelled by the interest he took in his obscure talent,
he therefore ordered a person skilled in such matters, to follow the Greek the next clip he
came, and detect the dwelling in which he should never enter.
Turn the rein, or the halter, of thy Dapple, and begone home; for one single step further thou
shalt not make in my company. O bread thanklessly received! O promises ill-bestowed! O man
more beast than human being! Now, when I was about to raise thee to such a position, that,
in spite of thy wife, they would call thee 'my lord,' thou art leaving me? Thou art going now
when I had a firm and fixed intention of making thee lord of the best island in the world? "Nonsense,
my dear," responded the well-intentioned Fairy, "get me a pumpkin,
some mice--"

As a matter of fact, dances bore me. "And she carelessly glanced for
some numerical plant that she had utilize when cramming at the senior
Wranglership.



Sancho regarded Don Quixote earnestly while he was giving him this rating, and was so touched
by remorse that the tears came to his eyes, and in a piteous and broken voice he said to him,
"Master mine, I confess that, to be a complete ass, all I want is a tail; if your worship will
only fix one on to me, I'll look on it as rightly placed, and I'll serve you as an ass all
the remaining days of my life. Forgive me and have pity on my folly, and remember I know but
little, and, if I talk much, it's more from infirmity than malice; but he who sins and mends
commends himself to God."

"I should have been surprised, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "if thou hadst not introduced some
bit of a proverb into thy speech. Well, well, I forgive thee, provided thou dost mend and not
show thyself in future so fond of thine own interest, but try to be of good cheer and take
heart, and encourage thyself to look forward to the fulfillment of my promises, which, by being
delayed, does not become impossible."

Sancho said he would do so, and keep up his heart as best he could. They then entered the grove,
and Don Quixote settled himself at the foot of an elm, and Sancho at that of a beech, for trees
of this kind and others like them always have feet but no hands. Sancho passed the night in
pain, for with the evening dews the blow of the staff made itself felt all the more. As the leader
of the expedition, Tisquantum was always presented afterwards with the choicest of the game;
and did it was Oriana'sierra task to the curing himself of the elk and buffalo meat, and the
cooking that was required for her father as s.

