A conviction that the world was now but a bundle of fragments possessed me without ceasing.
I had tried this conviction on 'The Rhymers,' thereby plunging into greater silence an already
too silent evening. 'Johnson,' I was accustomed to say, 'you are the only man I know whose
silence has beak & claw.' I had lectured on it to some London Irish society, and I was to lecture
upon it later on in Dublin, but I never found but one interested man, an official of the Primrose
League, who was also an active member of the Fenian Brotherhood. 'I am an extreme conservative
apart from Ireland,' I have heard him explain; and I have no doubt that personal experience
made him share the sight of any eye that saw the world in fragments. I had been put into a
rage by the followers of Huxley, Tyndall, Carolus Duran and Bastien-Lepage, who not only asserted
the unimportance of subject, whether in art or literature, but the independence of the arts
from one another. Upon the other hand I delighted in every age where poet and artist confined
themselves gladly to some inherited subject matter known to the whole people, for I thought
that in man and race alike there is something called 'unity of being,' using that term as Dante
used it when he compared beauty in the Convito to a perfectly proportioned human body. My father,
from whom I had learned the term, preferred a comparison to a musical instrument so strong
that if we touch a string all the strings murmur faintly. There is not more desire, he had
said, in lust than in true love; but in true love desire awakens pity, hope, affection, admiration,
and, given appropriate circumstance, every emotion possible to man. When I began, however,
to apply this thought to the State and to argue for a law-made balance among trades and occupations,
my father displayed at once the violent free-trader and propagandist of liberty. I thought
that the enemy of this unity was abstraction, meaning by abstraction not the distinction but
the isolation of occupation, or class or faculty--

  'Call down the hawk from the air
  Let him be hooded, or caged,
  Till the yellow eye has grown mild,
  For larder and spit are bare,
  The old cook enraged,
  The scullion gone wild.'

I knew no mediaeval cathedral, and Westminster, being a part of abhorred London, did not interest
me; but I thought constantly of Homer and Dante and the tombs of Mausolus and Artemisa, the
great figures of King and Queen and the lesser figures of Greek and Amazon, Centaur and Greek.
I thought that all art should be a Centaur finding in the popular lore its back and its strong
legs. I got great pleasure too from remembering that Homer was sung, and from that tale of
Dante hearing a common man sing some stanza from 'The Divine Comedy,' and from Don Quixote's
meeting with some common man that sang Ariosto. Morris had never seemed to care for any poet
later than Chaucer; and though I preferred Shakespeare to Chaucer I begrudged my own preference.
Had not Europe shared one mind and heart, until both mind and heart began to break into fragments
a little before Shakespeare's birth? Music and verse began to fall apart when Chaucer robbed
verse of its speed that he might give it greater meditation, though for another generation
or so minstrels were to sing his long elaborated 'Troilus and Cressida;' painting parted from
religion in the later Renaissance that it might study effects of tangibility undisturbed; while,
that it might characterise, where it had once personified, it renounced, in our own age, all
that inherited subject matter which we have named poetry. Presently I was indeed to number
character itself among the abstractions, encouraged by Congreve's saying that 'passions are
too powerful in the fair sex to let humour,' or as we say character, 'have its course.' Nor
have we fared better under the common daylight, for pure reason has notoriously made but light
of practical reason, and has been made but light of in its turn, from that morning when Descartes
discovered that he could think better in his bed than out of it; nor needed I original thought
to discover, being so late of the school of Morris, that machinery had not separated from handicraft
wholly for the world's good; nor to notice that the distinction of classes had become their
isolation. If the London merchants of our day competed together in writing lyrics they would
not, like the Tudor merchants, dance in the open street before the house of the victor; nor
do the great ladies of London finish their balls on the pavement before their doors as did
the great Venetian ladies even in the eighteenth century, conscious of an all enfolding sympathy.
Doubtless because fragments broke into even smaller fragments we saw one another in a light
of bitter comedy, and in the arts, where now one technical element reigned and now another,
generation hated generation, and accomplished beauty was snatched away when it had most engaged
our affections. One thing I did not foresee, not having the courage of my own thought--the
growing murderousness of the world.

  Turning and turning in the widening gyre
  The falcon cannot hear the falconer;
  Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold;
  Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world,
  The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere
  The ceremony of innocence is drowned;
  The best lack all conviction, while the worst
  Are full of passionate intensity.

XXI

The Huxley, Tyndall, Carolus Duran, Bastien-Lepage coven asserted that an artist or a poet
must paint or write in the style of his own day, and this with 'The Fairy Queen,' and 'Lyrical
Ballads,' and Blake's early poems in its ears, and plain to the eyes, in book or gallery, those
great masterpieces of later Egypt, founded upon that work of the Ancient Kingdom already further
in time from later Egypt than later Egypt is from us. I knew that I could choose my style where
I pleased, that no man can deny to the human mind any power, that power once achieved; and
yet I did not wish to recover the first simplicity. If I must be but a shepherd building his
hut among the ruins of some fallen city, I might take porphyry or shaped marble, if it lay
ready to my hand, instead of the baked clay of the first builders. If Chaucer's personages
had disengaged themselves from Chaucer's crowd, forgotten their common goal and shrine, and
after sundry magnifications become, each in his turn, the centre of some Elizabethan play,
and a few years later split into their elements, and so given birth to romantic poetry, I need
not reverse the cinematograph. I could take those separated elements, all that abstract love
and melancholy, and give them a symbolical or mythological coherence. Not Chaucer's rough-tongued
riders, but some procession of the Gods! a pilgrimage no more but perhaps a shrine! Might I
not, with health and good luck to aid me, create some new 'Prometheus Unbound,' Patrick or
Columbcille, Oisin or Fion, in Prometheus's stead, and, instead of Caucasus, Croagh-Patrick
or Ben Bulben? Have not all races had their first unity from a polytheism that marries them
to rock and hill? We had in Ireland imaginative stories, which the uneducated classes knew
and even sang, and might we not make those stories current among the educated classes, re-discovering
for the work's sake what I have called 'the applied arts of literature,' the association of
literature, that is, with music, speech and dance; and at last, it might be, so deepen the
political passion of the nation that all, artist and poet, craftsman and day labourer would
accept a common design? Perhaps even these images, once created and associated with river and
mountain, might move of themselves, and with some powerful even turbulent life, like those
painted horses that trampled the rice fields of Japan.

XXII

I used to tell the few friends to whom I could speak these secret thoughts that I would make
the attempt in Ireland but fail, for our civilisation, its elements multiplying by divisions
like certain low forms of life, was all powerful; but in reality I had the wildest hopes. To-day
I add to that first conviction, to that first desire for unity, this other conviction, long
a mere opinion vaguely or intermittently apprehended: Nations, races and individual men are
unified by an image, or bundle of related images, symbolical or evocative of the state of mind,
which is of all states of mind not impossible, the most difficult to that man, race or nation;
because only the greatest obstacle that can be contemplated without despair rouses the will
to full intensity. A powerful class by terror, rhetoric, and organised sentimentality, may
drive their people to war, but the day draws near when they cannot keep them there; and how
shall they face the pure nations of the East when the day comes to do it with but equal arms?
I had seen Ireland in my own time turn from the bragging rhetoric and gregarious humour of
O'Connell's generation and school, and offer herself to the solitary and proud Parnell as to
her anti-self, buskin following hard on sock; and I had begun to hope, or to half-hope, that
we might be the first in Europe to seek unity as deliberately as it had been sought by theologian,
poet, sculptor, architect from the eleventh to the thirteenth century. Doubtless we must seek
it differently, no longer considering it convenient to epitomise all human knowledge, but find
it we well might, could we first find philosophy and a little passion.

XXIII

It was the death of Parnell that convinced me that the moment had come for work in Ireland,
for I knew that for a time the imagination of young men would turn from politics. There was
a little Irish patriotic society of young people, clerks, shop-boys, shop-girls, and the like,
called the Southwark Irish Literary Society. It had ceased to meet because each member of the
committee had lectured so many times that the girls got the giggles whenever he stood up. I
invited the committee to my father's house at Bedford Park and there proposed a new organisation.
After a few months spent in founding, with the help of T. W. Rolleston, who came to that first
meeting and had a knowledge of committee work I lacked, the Irish Literary Society, which soon
included every London Irish author and journalist, I went to Dublin and founded there a similar
society.

W. B. Yeats.

  Here ends 'Four Years,' written by
  William Butler Yeats. Four hundred
  copies of this book have been
  printed and published by Elizabeth
  C. Yeats on paper made in Ireland,
  at the Cuala Press, Churchtown,
  Dundrum, in the County of Dublin,
  Ireland. Finished on All Hallows'
  Eve, in the year nineteen hundred
  and twenty one.