Some time after the first representation of the ballet of Nina, the Emperor again attended
the theater, and I was also present.  As formerly, the Emperor accompanied her Majesty; and
I could not keep back the thought, as the play proceeded, that the Emperor had some memories
sufficient to distract his attention from the exquisite music.  It was at the Italian theater
then occupying the Odeon.  The Cleopatra of Nazzolini was played; and the representation was
among the number of those called extraordinary, since it was on the occasion of Madame Grassini's
benefit. It had been only a short while since this singer, celebrated in more ways than one,
had first appeared in public on a Parisian stage, I think this was really only the third or
fourth time; and I should state, in order to be exactly correct, that she did not produce on
the Parisian public exactly the impression which had been expected from her immense reputation.
It had been long since the Emperor had received her privately; but, nevertheless, her voice
and Crescentini's had been reserved until then for the privileged ears of the spectators of
Saint- Cloud and the theater of the Tuileries.  On, this occasion the Emperor was very generous
towards the beneficiary, but no interview resulted; for, in the language of a poet of that
period, the Cleopatra of Paris did not conquer another Antony.

Thus, as we see, the Emperor on a few occasions laid aside the important affairs which occupied
him, less to enjoy the theater than for the purpose of showing himself in public.  All useful
undertakings were the objects of his care; and he did not depend entirely even on the information
of men to whom he had most worthily committed them, but saw everything for himself.  Among
the institutions especially protected by his Majesty, there was one in which he took an especial
interest.  I do not think that in any of the intervals between his wars the Emperor had come
to Paris without making a visit to the institution of the Daughters of the Legion of Honor,
of which Madame Campan was in charge, first at Ecouen, and afterwards at Saint-Denis.  The
Emperor visited it in the month of November, and I remember an anecdote which I heard related
to his Majesty on this occasion which diverted him exceedingly. Nevertheless, I cannot remember
positively whether this anecdote relates to the visit of 1813, or one made previously.

In the first place, it must be explained that, in accordance with the regulation of the household
of the young ladies of the Legion of Honor, no man, with the exception of the Emperor, was
admitted into the interior of the establishment.  But as the Emperor was always attended by
an escort, his suite formed in some sort a part of himself, and entered with him.  Besides
his officers, the pages usually accompanied him.  In the evening on his return from Saint-Denis,
the Emperor said to me, laughing, as he entered his room, where I was waiting to undress him,
"Well, my pages wish to resemble the pages of former times!  The little idiots! Do you know
what they do?  When I go to Saint-Denis, they have a contest among themselves as to who shall
be on duty.  Ha!  ha!"  The Emperor, while speaking, laughed and rubbed his hands together;
and then, having repeated several times in the same tone; "The little idiots," he added, following
out one of those singular reflections which sometimes struck him, "I, Constant, would have
made a very poor page; I would never have had such an idea.  Moreover, these are good young
men; good officers have already come from among them.  This will lead one day to some marriages."
It was very rare, in fact, that a thing, though frivolous in appearance, did not lead, on the
Emperor's part, to some serious conclusion. Hereafter, indeed, with the exception of a few
remembrances of the past, I shall have only serious and often very sad events to relate; for
we have now arrived at the point where everything has taken a serious turn, and clothed itself
in most somber tints.

CHAPTER XIX.

For the last time we celebrated in Paris the anniversary fete of his Majesty's coronation.
The gifts to the Emperor on this occasion were innumerable addresses made to him by all the
towns of the Empire, in which offers of sacrifices and protestations of devotion seemed to
increase in intensity in proportion to the difficulty of the circumstances.  Alas!  in four
months the full value of these protestations was proved; and, nevertheless, how was it possible
to believe that this enthusiasm, which was so universal, was not entirely sincere?  This would
have been an impossibility with the Emperor, who, until the very end of his reign, believed
himself beloved by France with the same devotion which he felt for her.  A truth, which was
well proved by succeeding events, is that the Emperor became more popular among that part of
the inhabitants called the people when misfortunes began to overwhelm him.  His Majesty had
proofs of this in a visit he made to the Faubourg Saint-Antoine; and it is very certain that,
if under other circumstances he had been able to bend from his dignity to propitiate the people,
a means which was most repugnant to the Emperor in consequence of his remembrances of the Revolution,
all the faubourgs of Paris would have armed themselves in his defense.  How can this be doubted
after the event which I here describe?

The Emperor, towards the end of 1813 or the beginning of 1814, on one occasion visited the
Faubourg Saint-Antoine.  I cannot to-day give the precise date of this unexpected visit; but
at any rate he showed himself on this occasion familiar, even to the point of good fellowship,
which emboldened those immediately around to address him.  I now relate the conversation which
occurred between his Majesty and several of the inhabitants, which has been faithfully recorded,
and admitted to be true by several witnesses of this really touching scene.

An Inhabitant.--"Is it true, as I am told, that the condition of affairs is so bad?"

The Emperor.--"I cannot say that they are in a very good condition."

The Inhabitant.--"But how, then, will all this end?"

The Emperor.--"By my faith, God alone knows."

The Inhabitant.--"But what!  Is it possible the enemy could really enter France?"

The Emperor.--"That might occur, and they might even penetrate as far as this place, if you
do not come to my aid.  I have not a million arms.  I cannot do everything alone."

Numerous Voices.--"We will uphold you, we will uphold you."

Still more Voices.--"Yes, yes.  Count on us."

The Emperor.--"In that case the enemy will be beaten, and we will preserve our glory untarnished."

Several Voices.--"But what, then, shall we do?"

The Emperor.--"Be enrolled and fight."

A New Voice.--"We would do this gladly, but we would like to make certain conditions."

The Emperor.--"Well, speak out frankly.  Let us know; what are these conditions?"

Several Voices.--"That we are not to pass the frontiers."

The Emperor.--"You shall not pass them."

Several Voices.--"We wish to enter the guard."

The Emperor.--"Well, then, you shall enter the guard."

His Majesty had hardly pronounced these last words, when the immense crowd which surrounded
him made the air resound with cries of "Vive l'Empereur!" and their number continued to increase
all the way as the Emperor slowly returned to the Tuileries, until, by the time he reached
the gates of the Carrousel, he was accompanied by an innumerable cortege. We heard these noisy
acclamations; but they were so badly interpreted by the commandant of the post at the palace,
that he thought it was an insurrection, and the iron gates of the Tuileries on that side of
the court were closed.

