"Well, my dear, trouble comes to the best of us, some time in life. If you hadn't it now, you
would have it later, and it makes a less painful and durable impression on the heart while
it is young."

"But, dear aunt Jean," faltered the girl, looking imploringly into the elder woman's face,
"do you really think that Mr. Rayne is seriously ill, I mean--" and as the tears flooded her
eyes, Jean d'Alberg kissed her fondly and answered,

"My dear little girl, he is in God's hands, could he be in better? Whatever is best for him,
that kind Father will give to him, let us hope and pray--I have just come to you with a message
from him--"

"Oh! what is it?" Honor interrupted eagerly.

"He merely said, that he wanted to speak a few words to you in the morning," she said unpretendingly,
then going towards the door, she looked over her shoulder, and added, in such an artful, careless
tone, "and Vivian Standish will be there too, I understand."

The light in the room was dim and subdued, or Jean d'Alberg would have noticed a strange expression
flit across Honor's face at the mention of this news, but the turned down light protected her.

Jean d'Alberg had undergone a wonderful transformation since the day on which she took up her
residence in Henry Rayne's house. A little susceptibility was yet flickering, at that time,
in the heart that had grown so hardened and selfish, and she had brought it to a spot, where
such lingering propensities were easily fanned by every passing circumstance, fanned and fed,
until the broad flame was forced to burst out afresh, and consume the harshness and bitterness
that had once dwelt with them. Her former virtues budded now anew into a second childhood,
adorning her advancing years with gentle, lovable, womanly attributes, that endeared her to
every one she knew, and rendered her indispensable to Honor who had learned to find in her
all the qualities of a kind, good mother.

Thinking this message that she had just brought Honor needed consideration, Aunt Jean very
properly made a trifling excuse to leave the room, much to the distracted girl's relief and
satisfaction.

"So--the hour has come," she thought bitterly, when she was left alone, "he has appealed to
the only one for whose sake he knows I would lay down my very life" and out of this bitter
reflection, the meaning of the strange interview she had held with her guardian so shortly
before rushed upon her in an entirely new light. Now she knew what Mr Rayne meant by the "favor,"
which involved the sacrifice of personal feeling and inclination. Yes, now she recognized herself
the dupe of the man she had so proudly rejected still, in all the bitterness of her reflection
she had not felt one reproach against Henry Rayne suggest itself within her. She knew him too
well now, to suspect anything else than that in some way he too was tangled in deceptive webs.
If a promise from her lips was spoken at his request, she knew that the motive within his heart
was nothing, if not her personal happiness, her future welfare, or her gratification for the
moment. Still, all that could not cancel the obstinate fact now so bare before her, that in
giving her word to her guardian at the time it was sought, she had given the lie to her own
heart, and had signed the death warrant of her own most sanguine hopes. Now she must leave
her destiny to chance. She would keep her promise--aye, to the very letter--if nothing happened
before this terrible to-morrow, she would lay her life at the feet of her benefactor, to dispose
of it as he deemed best. Guy Elersley was the man she loved, the only being in the whole wide
world that influenced her life, but if it were her fate to be the victim of deception then
with the mightiest strength of a womans will will she would cast his image out of her heart
forever. She would live for the man she loathed, a life of voluntary martyrdom. The struggle
would benefit her in any case. If it were too violent an exertion for her moral nature, it
would, in its pitiless mercy relieve her of her burden of life, and fold her weak hands over
her broken heart forever. If, on the contrary, her moral and physical strength held bravely
out to the painful end, the struggle would cease after the crisis, and leave her unburdened,
unfettered, hardened, cynical, cold, selfish, but unsusceptible, and incapable of ever being
influenced again by any sentiment or passion, and this terrible experience promised, in any
case to visit her but once in her whole lifetime.

While she thought, she remembered the little note Guy had written her that morning, telling
her to let him know when her next meeting with Vivian Standish should take place. Instinctively
she rose up, as if to leave the room. What could it matter now to either her or Guy whether
they had ever loved each other or not? Was it not the only misery of her life that her love
had come between her and the will of her kind guardian? Duty is such a sober piece of heroism
when one's affections, one's very heart-core are not its sacrifice. The conscientious can go
bravely forth to the stern call of duty, the obedient follow out unhesitatingly its command,
the virtuous seek it out to accomplish it, but when apart from these moral qualities the heart
stands out, a weak victim of passion, that passion that clings to the things it loves, that
lives because they live, when a heart thus circumstanced is assailed on both sides, when love
and duty put forth their respective claims, who sneers because the noblest, grandest heart
gives itself up vith a groan of wretched resignation to the fascination of its love? Men may
talk, pens may write, bards may sing of magnanimous deeds in the abstract. In theory we are
most of us saints, if we had been our neighbors, we would never have had a fault, but being
each one our own miserable, unfortunate self, we must fling ourselves into the open arms of
temptation, at the same moment that contrition fills our heart for the rash deed.

Of Honor Edgeworth the reader might expect wonderful moral courage. May be, he too has faith
in the fallacious doctrine of worldlings--that he believes good souls have not their struggles.
The world generally shrugs its shoulders in the face of the virtuous, and declares that in
the hearts of the good there is no moral struggle equal to that which quakes the breast of
the evil-doer, but to assure itself of its terrible error, it must play the part of the publican
and learn to subdue its passions under a mask.

Honor had determined upon doing the right thing, but she was not perfect enough to stifle the
burning sensations that were caused by such a determination. She turned from where she stood
and walked mechanically towards the window. The ceaseless drip, drip of the rain on the frozen
ground had nothing in it to comfort her, it was pitch dark, and with a shrug and a shiver,
she turned wearily away with a long, sobbing sigh and left the room. She crossed the hall into
the library, which was quite deserted, though the gas burned, and a bright fire cast shadows
on the ceiling and walls around. Throwing herself into an arm-chair before Henry Rayne's handsome
ecritoire, she drew from a tiny drawer a delicate sheet of note paper, upon which her trembling
hand, traced nervously--

"My DEAR GUY--"

Then without waiting or thinking a moment, she hastily wrote on--

"I have just received the intelligence that I am to be interviewed to-morrow morning by Mr
Rayne and Vivian Standish. It may be rather late to tell you now, but I did not hear of it
until a few moments ago. Mr Rayne never leaves his room before eleven, when he sometimes comes
down for lunch--that will probably be the hour of the interview.

"I see no earthly use in sending you this information, except
that you have asked me to do so, and you know best.
                                      Ever your devoted
                                                    HONOR."

She folded it, and sealed it in a dainty little envelope, then thrusting it into her pocket
she went quietly into the kitchen and closed the door.

Mrs Potts, sitting artistically on the edge of a yellow-scoured kitchen table, opened her small
eyes in blank astonishment at the unexpected visitor. She was surrounded by clippings and sheets
of paper, which she scolloped quite tastily to fit the broad shelves of her tidy dresser. As
soon, however, as Honor crossed the threshold of her sanctum, she skipped down with an agility
that would have done credit to a woman twenty years her junior, and wiping the palms of her
accommodating hands emphatically in her blue-check apron, she advanced to receive Honor's orders.

"Go upstairs like a good soul, Potts," said Honor, in a hushed voice, "and walk very quietly,
and tell Fitts I want him in the library."

"I will, Miss," the old woman said respectfully, and as she stole up the back stairway on her
errand, Honor returned as softly to the library, where she stood by the window awaiting Fitts.

In another moment, the door opened, and with his most respectful bow, the man-servant entered
the room. Honor's face was serious, and her gaze searching as she asked:

"Fitts, will you do a little favor for me, without telling any one of it?"

"I'm sorry, ye'd think it needful to ask me, Miss Honor, I'd rather, ye'd kno right well, that
I'm only too proud when you ordher me, let alone, axm' me, as if I as your equals," and the
poor fellow, looking half sorry as he spoke, touched the girl's heart.

"Well, Fitts, I must first tell you a great secret, which I am sure you will be glad to hear,"
Honor said a little gaily Fitts scratched his ear and looked embarassed, "Mr. Elersley is back
again in Ottawa."

"Och don't I hope, 'tis yerself is in airnist, Miss Honor," the old man answered between smiles
and tears, "is this really the truth?"

"Without a doubt, Fitts, and to prove it for yourself, I am going to send you to him with this
little note, he is staying at the 'Albion,' it is not far, see him yourself, it will please
you both; I do not like to ask you to go out on such a dreadful night, but the message is important."

"It will be the powerful queer night, Miss Honor, when I'll not like to go out on your little
errands, and more particular when it's to see Mr. Guy that I have loved since he was a lad."

"You are a good, devoted servant, Fitts," she answered, "go now, and don't be long, for you
may be wanted."

The man looked proudly at himself as he thrust her dainty note carefully into his inside pocket,
and without further ado left the room.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

   "But bitter hours come to all,
   When even truths like these will pall,
   Sick hearts for humbler comfort call,
   The cry wrung from thy spirits' pain,
   May echo on some far off plain,
   And guide a wanderer home again."
                          --Proctor.

Next morning, it was a bright and cheerful sun that streamed mat Honor's window, the rain had
all passed away, and the air was mild and refreshing. Hastily dressing herself, Honor hurried
to Mr. Rayne's door to ascertain how he had passed the night, but as she reached it, she met
Aunt Jean coming out, with her forefinger on her lip, and whispering "Sh--sh--" in such premature
warning, that Honor looked bewildered as she enquired the cause.

"He is sleeping nicely now, run off, we must not disturb him, it is such a natural little sleep,"
Madame d'Alberg said in a low voice.

"Oh, is that it?" Honor exclaimed in great relief, as she turned willingly away and followed
Aunt Jean down the broad stairway.

They took their silent little breakfast together, and then as Jean rose, to busy herself about
the morning occupations, Honor bundled up a mass of pale blue wool, which she was resolving
into a cloud, and went off to the library.

How long she sat there she could hardly say--every now and then she discovered herself, with
her hands resting idly on her work, and her eyes gazing vacantly into the space before her;
faces, figures, scenes, were passing backward and forward, as she watched, sensations of every
kind racked her whole being--but it is not surprising at all, when one considers her in her
true light.

People, like her, who have a tendency to intensity in all things have it most of all, in their
loves, and hatreds, and no one can understand the nature of her emotions, but those who are
themselves intense lovers or intense haters. He who has all his life, loved in a calm, cool,
collected sort of way, has never known the acme of moral endurance.

Maybe, the love that I allude to, is not felt more than once in a score of years, by any individual
of a community, now-a-days love has been transformed as much as it was in other days, a transformer,
men have invaded that dark solemn forest of the soul, where certain passions roamed in hungry
fury, wild, and unfettered, these have been secured, in our day, and have been tamed and domesticated;
our children play with, and fondle, these monsters, that were so dreaded in earlier centuries
by gray-haired mortals; let them beware, there is a hypocrisy in this, since hypocrisy is coexistent
with life in any of its phases, and some day, the petted tiger or lion will not feel like play,
his old nature will seek to assert itself, and then woe to the victim of this terrible caprice.

A sudden stamping in the hall outside, brought Honor quickly back to stern reality the footsteps
vanished up the stairway, and she winced uncomfortably as she told herself it was Vivian Standish.
Resolving to remain where she was until sent for, she re-applied herself vigorously to her
work and avoided further distraction, but what was her amazement when, a few moments later,
the door behind her opened, and Henry Rayne, leaning on the arm of Vivian Standish, entered
the room. A cry of genuine surprise burst from her lips, as, scattering her mass of wool-work
on the floor, she rushed to her guardian's side with joyful greetings.

"Oh, I am so glad," she cried, "to see you downstairs this morning, how much better you must feel?"

The feeble old man tried to smile cheerfully back as he said:

"I have made this effort for your sake, my dear, whether I go back up those stairs again with
a light or a heavy heart, depends on you."

A shadow flitted over her face, then looking in supreme disgust on the man beside them, she
answered,

"On me? Then you know very well that your heart will be as light as a feather, going back."

"Get me a chair, Vivian, boy," said the feeble voice of the invalid, turning toward Standish.
He moved a step to do so, and had his hand on a low cushioned fauteuil, when Honor rushed before
him and laid her hand on the other arm of the chair.

"How can you ask a stranger to serve you, when I am by," she asked, half choked with sobs,
of Henry Rayne, "What have I done to merit this?"

As she clutched the opposite side of the chair, her eyes and Vivian's met, there was a flash
of contempt and a look of defiant love, and then, with all her woman's strength, she wrestled
the chair from his strong hold, and placed it behind her guardian. She refused to sit herself,
the folding-doors leading to the drawing-room were partially closed and she stood against them,
toying nervously with the massive handle near her. When quiet was restored, Henry Rayne began
to speak. He seemed to pass, unnoticed, the confusion of a moment before, and said in the gentlest
accents, addressing the girl.

"Honor, we have come here this morning for the purpose of deciding a question which, of late,
has received very serious consideration from your friend here, and myself. I am now growing
old and feeble, and have all the indications of an early decay in my constitution. Since the
first moment that you were given me as a responsibility and a grave charge, my mind has been
in a constant worry, lest, in the smallest degree, I would not render you your due as your
own father would have done. In all matters, I have tried, as well as I knew how, to place myself
in that very relationship to you, and if I have not succeeded I could never know from you,
for you have always been a kind, grateful, considerate daughter. What I am about to discuss
now, is the very last thing, relative to you, that will abide by my decision. I have, since
my recent illness, considered everything that could assist me in securing your welfare, before
I go, and as well as my eager, though maybe, not overwise judgment can direct me, I think I
have adopted the best plan of all, it needs only your sanction to complete it and set my mind
at rest. I will not remind you of your promise to me, because, on second thought, I have learned
that to ask you to sacrifice your own heart for my sake, would be enough to taunt me in the
other world, so I will merely appeal, showing you that with what discretion some sixty odd
years of tough experience have given me, I presume I can direct you now."

The girl, standing motionless by the doorway, looked her guardian fully in the face; she struggled
for a moment, a secret, hidden struggle, and then answered calmly: "My dear Mr Rayne, do you
not know, that such an appeal as this, is unnecessary? If you have something to command of
me, state it plainly, clearly, I will understand it better. You have, it is true, guided me
with faultless judgment and discretion, you have been kind, and solicitous and careful from
the first moment we lived together. What is it you now ask in return? What do I owe you for
such devotion?"

There was a faint ring of reproach in the words, as she uttered them--something which sounded
as if she had said "yes, 'tis true you have done all this for me, but was your motive no worthier
than to trust to these influences, for a power over me in the future?"

A trifle sadder in his accent, Henry Rayne answered, "Do not put it like that Honor you pain
me. It is not a debt--no, no! you have generously paid me, and overpaid the attention I lavished
on you, but now, what I want to complete my earthly happiness is this." He beckoned to Vivian,
and taking a hand of each, was about to join them, when Honor drew hers suddenly away, and
turned pale with agitation.

"I understand," she said huskily, "you wish me to marry that" pointing in Vivian's face. "Well,
as there is nothing which I could refuse you, I must not refuse you this. It is well you have
not asked me to love him, or to respect him, for that is beyond me, but if he wishes to secure
me, after what he has learned from my own lips, he deserves that I should wed him, and the
consequences of such a harmonious union."

Vivian never moved a muscle; he sat silently, quietly listening to it all. Henry Rayne interrupted
gently.

"You are excited, Honor, and hence it is you speak thus, you will think better of it later.
Do you promise me, then, to accept Vivian Standish as your husband, showing your faith in my
discretion, and proving yourself dutiful to the end?"

There was a pause of a second, the word was on the girl's lips; one other moment and her destiny
was sealed: but suddenly a cry of "Villain!" broke through the doorway, and simultaneously,
Guy Elersley appeared on the scene.

"Villain!" he cried, collaring Vivian Standish, "how can you stand there and hear this girl
give up her name and her honor, into such vile keeping. You are a coward and a blackguard,
and I will prove it."

Vivian Standish grasping the back of a chair, stared in furious amazement. Honor, with delighted
surprise on her face, now stood defiantly up and looked proudly on, and Henry Rayne rubbed
his misty eyes wonderingly, and peered into the face of the new-comer. An exclamation of great
joy burst from Honor's lips.

"Guy!" she cried, "you are just in time."

"Guy!" repeated the old man, "did someone say Guy? Quick, tell me where is Guy? Guy! Guy!"
and with the words the feeble head drooped upon his throbbing bosom, the eyelids closed wearily,
he raised his wasted hands to his aching temples, and with a long, heavy sigh, fell backwards.

Everything else was forgotten, for the ten minutes it took to revive Mr. Rayne. Honor, trembling
with fright, supported his head on her bosom, and spoke appealingly to him. After a little
his eyelids quivered and opened, he breathed again and sat up.

"Are you better?" Honor asked, bending over him in great eagerness.

"Yes, my dear," he answered kindly, "I am all right now, but where is Guy?"

"Here I am," Guy said, advancing a step, "I hope you will pardon the manner in which I have
entered your house, after years of absence, but I have come, and only just in time to vindicate
the wrongs of poor, duped victims, and to rescue innocence from the foul grasp of corruption."

"What do you mean, Guy?" his uncle asked in curious consternation.

"I mean to tell my pain and my regret at knowing that while you have forbidden the shelter
and comforts of your home to those of your own blood, who have committed deeds of harmless
rashness, you have been welcoming and fostering with lavish generosity under your roof a vile
man--a wolf in sheep's clothing!"

"May I, as seeming somewhat concerned, ask who this is?" Vivian interrupted in the blandest
tones, laying his arm on Guy's shoulder.

"'Tis yourself" Guy cried, shaking him violently off, "you coward! villain! rogue!"

"Guy, you mystify me," Henry Rayne said in strange wonder, "pray explain. Whatever can you
mean by such queer conduct?"

"'Tis a painful task, uncle, but I must do it. This man, in whom you have placed your trust,
has foully wronged you. He thrust himself upon you with his deceiving manners, and you were
content to take him thus. You never questioned him about the past, nor did he care to inform
you of his swindling career."

Honor trembled and turned pale. Vivian's eyes flashed fire, and he ground his teeth, while
Henry Rayne only gazed in a stupid sort of wonder, while Guy enumerated these dreadful things.

"He was not content," Guy continued, "to shake off that past, reeking with loathsome and dishonorable
crimes, but he brought his knavery within these respectable walls--he dared to pay his attentions
to your ward, and speak words of forbidden love into her ears, while the crime of having enticed
as young and respectable a girl from her comfortable home, to swindle her out of thousands
of dollars, which she owned, yet lay unexpiated on the black chapter of his heart."

Guy scarcely pronounced the words when Vivian Standish sprang in mad fury towards him, crying--

"Liar! slanderer!--your words are false!"

"Pardon me, sir," Guy said, in mock courtesy, "for contradicting you, but" (going towards the
door) "if you will allow me, I will prove my false statements."

All eyes followed him, and to their blank amazement, there stepped into the library from the
room outside, a beautiful and sad looking young girl, plainly but neatly clad, and who was
followed by two professional looking men, who stood on either side of her.

Vivian Standish gave one quick, searching glance at the features of the young girl, and Honor
saw in a moment how every tinge of color died out of his face, a grey, unearthly shadow crept
over it, and his features assumed a set expression of misery which almost excited her to pity.

"Do you recognize this gentleman, mademoiselle?" Guy said, addressing the girl, and pointing
in mock civility to Vivian.

"Oh! yes, sir--I do indeed," she answered in a sweet, melancholy voice, "it is Bijou--see!
he recognizes me!"

All eyes were turned on Vivian Standish. He trembled violently. He looked up once, while they
all stared him so suspiciously, and that look was directed towards Honor; he saw her clear
grey eyes buried in his tell-tale face. He leaned against the tall back of a chair unsteadily,
hesitated a moment, and then addressing Henry Rayne, said, in a husky and trembling voice,

"It would not avail me much to try my defence under these crushing circumstances, Mr Rayne,
but at least I can have my say as well as the others. I admit that in years gone by, I was
guilty of many things of which you did not suspect me, but a man is not supposed to disgrace
himself for his whole life because he has at one time committed extravagant follies. I thought
I had buried my past forever, or I should never have taken advantage of your hospitality as
I have. Guilty as I was, I could not help being influenced by the fascination that bound me
to your home--the resistless attractions of that girl," pointing to Honor. "I leave it now,
disgraced, condemned, but at least, you, who are all so blameless, can consent not to crush
me entirely. In administering justice, be a little kind, my misery is bitter enough--God knows!"

Then Fifine de Maistre stepped forward and laid her hand on the shoulder of the wretched man.

"Vivian Standish," she said, "you have wronged me, inasmuch as a man can wrong a woman; you
have driven my good father to any early grave, and blighted every hope I had for the future,
and though my heart lies shrivelled and dead where you have left it, I forgive you!"

At these words, the look of hard contempt in every eye, melted into one of glowing admiration;
tears stood in Honor's eyes, though she had worn such a merciless expression before, and Vivian
Standish as he raised his face from his trembling hands, looked calmer and more resigned, he
turned his eyes on the slight figure standing beside him, and said in a nervous voice of emotion,

"May God bless you, Fifine, you can never regret these words."

Henry Rayne's feeble voice was the next to be heard.

"This strange, painful news," he said, "is a greater shock to me than anything else in the
world that I could hear of. I have received you Standish, and treated you as an intimate friend
of my family, and had you in return, confined your deceptions to myself, I might yet have forgiven
you; but knowingly, to extend your treachery to that innocent and unsuspecting girl, aware,
as you were that she was all in all to me, is a base ingratitude that living or dying, I will
never forgive. What would she have become? blighted in hopes, ruined in prospects for life,
and by my urgent request too, that, she would have been very soon, but for--you," he said,
turning towards Guy, "you, my boy, have saved my heart from breaking, though I did not deserve
it from you. I suppose it is too late to seek your forgiveness now after I have judged you
so hastily, and punished you so severely, but God knows, I have repented of it many a time since."

His voice broke down, into a weak sob, and he bowed his head.

"You think too harshly of me, uncle dear," Guy said, advancing, "for I have long ago forgotten
the past; the day I left your house I took my first step to good fortune, and I have never
regretted your severity since, though it pained me much at the time. It has all blown happily
over now, however, and I have tried in a measure to atone for the folly of my past, let us
learn a lesson for the future from the misunderstanding, but in every other respect let us
forget that it has ever occurred."

"Bless you, my noble boy," were the words his uncle answered, "you are a treasure, and I am
proud to own you."

Meantime, the other two gentlemen, stood watching the strange proceeding, until Guy, remembering
them, said--addressing all present--

"These gentlemen will explain their own presence."

Whereupon, one of them, the most respectable of the two, stated in brief, business like terms,
that "he had been the family lawyer of the Bencroft's for many years, and that previous to
his recent demise, Nicholas Bencroft had laid information with him, against one Vivian Standish,
for swindling him out of a considerable sum of money, and that he had come there to see the
man identified by the one who knew him best--it being unnecessary now, to tell him, he concluded,
that the punishment of his crime awaited him," he then drew back to make clear the way for
his companion, who, as he advanced said,

"And I sir, am the person engaged by the father of this young lady, previous to his death,
to hunt up the mystery of his daughters' disappearance. The whole catalogue of her wrongs and
misfortunes being attributed to you, you are my prisoner, until your trial has taken place."

"May God help me!" came in heart-rending tones from the bowed face of the accused man. "It
has all come down upon me together," he moaned, raising his trembling hands to his throbbing
temples, then with one pitiful, appealing, contrite look he scanned the faces of all those
present, and gave himself voluntarily up, a guilty man, a culprit. He was escorted out of the
house where he had shone as a star in the days of his freedom, out of the spot which held all
that his poor miserable heart could care for now. Vivian Standish, the bright comet of Ottawa's
gay season, seated in a corner of that covered sleigh, on that bright morning, was a hopeless,
ruined man, outcast, dejected, wretched.

Fifine de Maistre, in her sad voice, spoke a touching farewell to Honor and Guy and Henry Rayne.
The holy resignation of her words, and the Christian spirit in which she forgave her wrongs,
had strangely edified her hearers. Mr. Rayne and Honor pressed her very hard to remain and
share their hospitality longer, but this she gently declined to do, and with affectionate,
grateful thanks to all, and to Guy in particular, she left the house in company with the serious
looking elderly lady, who awaited her, the last but one of the interesting personages who had
appeared in the closing scene of the strange drama of "a culprits life."

When quiet was restored, and the din of accusing voices had ceased, Henry Rayne looked proudly
up at the manly young fellow who stood before him, and said,

"Guy, I can never thank God sufficiently for having sent you so fortunately, in time to interrupt
the course of the terrible destiny that I was forcing on to my poor little girl. A little longer
would have made all the difference of a lifetime--a young life shattered and crushed in its
bloom, and some day she would be justified in cursing my memory and my name, after I had tried,
in blind love, to secure her unalloyed happiness. I cannot live to return you, in deeds of
active merit, compensation for the good you have done me--that I know and regret, but in some
way I must find a means of acknowledging all I owe you, my dear boy." Here he hesitated a little,
and looking from one to the other of the young people standing before him, resumed.

"I suppose I am more unworthy than ever, to express a wish or a hope now, but let me tell you,
before I die, of the wild wish that animated my heart to the very end, the gratification of
which, would be the summit of my earthly expectations."

"What is it?" and "speak it!" broke, simultaneously, from the young people's lips.

"'Tis this," he said, stretching out his feeble hands, and taking one of each in their nervous
clasp, "'tis to join together both those little hands, by these, my old, trembling ones, that
would so unconsciously have wronged them to knit them together in one holy link, that I might
fasten, with the last remnant of my lifes strength--that is the old man's ambition now, the
ambition of long ago, re-awakened and revived, the plan conceived before the clouds of dissension
gathered over our happy home the plan re-conceived when the dark clouds have melted away into
obscurity, and threaten us no more."

The hands thus joined, this time lay willingly clasped together. Honor did not seek to snatch
hers from the light, warm grasp that held it a prisoner, while Guy gathered in the little trembling
fingers into his strong palm, as the miser does the yellow gold he has long coveted. The lovers
looked meaningly at one another and then Guy, whose eyes were brimful of unspoken emotion answered
his uncle saying,

"You had said you could not live to compensate me for what I have just done. Now, let me tell
you that twere worth a whole life-time of wrongs and misfortunes to me, if compensation meant
this" and with these words he brought his other hand over the willing little captive he already
held in one. "It has been the dream of my life too, uncle," he continued, "it has been the
only hope that encouraged me through weary scenes of strife and disappointment, and if I can
receive it from your own hand, and with your blessing, my cup of bliss vill indeed be filled
to overflowing."

"And you, little one?" Henry Rayne faltered, looking up at Honor through his tearful eyes.

"I?" the girl answered with blushing, averted face, "It is the most I had over hoped for. Therein
my happiness also dwells."

The old man bowed his head for an instant, and then raised his eyes and scanned the face of
his protegee curiously.

"Do you mean to tell me," he asked in profound astonishment, "that you have loved Guy Elersley
through all these years?"

"That I have," she answered firmly.

"But--" began he.

"I know what you would say," she interrupted quietly. "That a moment ago I was ready to sacrifice
my love, to belie my heart, to crush my fondest hope--and that is true, indeed. I was a friendless,
helpless, orphan child when you took me under your care, and watched me, and guided me, and
gave me every comfort your happy home afforded, in everything you have proved yourself the
most devoted friend in the world and knowing this, feeling, realizing this, as I did, could
I on the mere account of natural prejudice, deny you the favor you asked of me so humbly? What
was my love, my ambition, my hope, to my duty towards you, the representative of my dead father?
Nothing at all. I did it miserably, badly, I know. I clung to my heart's inclination with the
very last breath of freedom I drew, and then when I had trampled it, though so cowardly, I
felt that I had done my very best to repay you your devotedness and kindness. If destiny has
pleased to show us that she was only trying us, we at least have given proof to one another
of our confidence and love--but I earnestly hope that never again will destiny play the same
game with our hearts."

A low sob broke from the old man's lips. As she finished, he drew her gently towards him, and
in a voice that shook with pain and emotion, he began:

