Seriously, however, none of these theories are altogether satisfactory, and we are inclined
to seek, as is best in all cases, the simplest explanation. Women are tall and becoming tall
simply because it is the fashion, and that statement never needs nor is capable of any explanation.
Awhile ago it was the fashion to be petite and arch; it is now the fashion to be tall and gracious,
and nothing more can be said about it. Of course the reader, who is usually inclined to find
the facetious side of any grave topic, has already thought of the application of the self-denying
hymn, that man wants but little here below, and wants that little long; but this may be only
a passing sigh of the period. We are far from expressing any preference for tall women over
short women. There are creative moods of the fancy when each seems the better. We can only
chronicle, but never create.

THE DEADLY DIARY

Many people regard the keeping of a diary as a meritorious occupation. The young are urged
to take up this cross; it is supposed to benefit girls especially. Whether women should do
it is to some minds not an open question, although there is on record the case of the Frenchman
who tried to shoot himself when he heard that his wife was keeping a diary. This intention
of suicide may have arisen from the fear that his wife was keeping a record of his own peccadilloes
rather than of her own thoughts and emotions. Or it may have been from the fear that she was
putting down those little conjugal remarks which the husband always dislikes to have thrown
up to him, and which a woman can usually quote accurately, it may be for years, it may be forever,
without the help of a diary. So we can appreciate without approving the terror of the Frenchman
at living on and on in the same house with a growing diary. For it is not simply that this
little book of judgment is there in black and white, but that the maker of it is increasing
her power of minute observation and analytic expression. In discussing the question whether
a woman should keep a diary it is understood that it is not a mere memorandum of events and
engagements, such as both men and women of business and affairs necessarily keep, but the daily
record which sets down feelings, emotions, and impressions, and criticises people and records
opinions. But this is a question that applies to men as well as to women.

It has been assumed that the diary serves two good purposes: it is a disciplinary exercise
for the keeper of it, and perhaps a moral guide; and it has great historical value. As to the
first, it may be helpful to order, method, discipline, and it may be an indulgence of spleen,
whims, and unwholesome criticism and conceit. The habit of saying right out what you think
of everybody is not a good one, and the record of such opinions and impressions, while it is
not so mischievous to the public as talking may be, is harmful to the recorder. And when we
come to the historical value of the diary, we confess to a growing suspicion of it. It is such
a deadly weapon when it comes to light after the passage of years. It has an authority which
the spoken words of its keeper never had. It is 'ex parte', and it cannot be cross-examined.
The supposition is that being contemporaneous with the events spoken of, it must be true, and
that it is an honest record. Now, as a matter of fact, we doubt if people are any more honest
as to themselves or others in a diary than out of it; and rumors, reported facts, and impressions
set down daily in the heat and haste of the prejudicial hour are about as likely to be wrong
as right. Two diaries of the same events rarely agree. And in turning over an old diary we
never know what to allow for the personal equation.