The odometer which I had with me had not yet measured four miles, when I began to notice two
things: first that the jewelled meteor-stones were now accumulating beyond all limit, filling
my range of vision to the northern horizon with a dazzling glister: in mounds, and parterres,
and scattered disconnection they lay, like largesse of autumn leaves, spread out over those
Elysian fields and fairy uplands of wealth, trillions of billions, so that I had need to steer
my twining way among them. Now, too, I noticed that, but for these stones, all roughness had
disappeared, not a trace of the upheaval going on a little further south being here, for the
ice lay positively as smooth as a table before me. It is my belief that this stretch of smooth
ice has never, never felt one shock, or stir, or throe, and reaches right down to the bottom
of the deep.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now with a wild hilarity I flew. Gradually, a dizziness, a lunacy, had seized upon me,
till finally, up-buoyed on air, and dancing mad, I sped, I spun, with grinning teeth that chattered
and gibbered, and eyeballs of distraction: for a Fear, too--most cold and dreadful--had its
hand of ice upon my heart, I being so alone in that place, face to face with the Ineffable:
but still with a giddy levity, and a fatal joy, and a blind hilarity, on I sped, I spun.

       *       *       *       *       *

The odometer measured nine miles from my start. I was in the immediate neighbourhood of the Pole.

I cannot say when it began, but now I was conscious of a sound in my ears, distinct and near,
a steady sound of splashing, or fluttering, resembling the noising of a cascade or brook: and
it grew. Forty more steps I took (slide I could not now for the meteorites)--perhaps sixty--perhaps
eighty: and now, to my sudden horror, I stood by a circular clean-cut lake.

One minute only, swaying and nodding there, I stood: and then I dropped down flat in swoon.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a hundred years, I suppose, I should never succeed in analysing why I swooned: but my consciousness
still retains the impression of that horrid thrill. I saw nothing distinctly, for my whole
being reeled and toppled drunken, like a spinning-top in desperate death-struggle at the moment
when it flags, and wobbles dissolutely to fall; but the very instant that my eyes met what
was before me, I knew, I knew, that here was the Sanctity of Sanctities, the old eternal inner
secret of the Life of this Earth, which it was a most burning shame for a man to see. The lake,
I fancy, must be a mile across, and in its middle is a pillar of ice, very low and broad; and
I had the clear impression, or dream, or notion, that there was a name, or word, graven all
round in the ice of the pillar in characters which I could never read; and under the name a
long date; and the fluid of the lake seemed to me to be wheeling with a shivering ecstasy,
splashing and fluttering, round the pillar, always from west to east, in the direction of the
spinning of the earth; and it was borne in upon me--I can't at all say how--that this fluid
was the substance of a living creature; and I had the distinct fancy, as my senses failed,
that it was a creature with many dull and anguished eyes, and that, as it wheeled for ever
round in fluttering lust, it kept its eyes always turned upon the name and the date graven
in the pillar. But this must be my madness....

       *       *       *       *       *

It must have been not less than an hour before a sense of life returned to me; and when the
thought stabbed my brain that a long, long time I had lain there in the presence of those gloomy
orbs, my spirit seemed to groan and die within me.

In some minutes, however, I had scrambled to my feet, clutched at a dog's harness, and without
one backward glance, was flying from that place.

Half-way to the halting-place, I waited Clark and Mew, being very sick and doddering, and unable
to advance. But they did not come.

Later on, when I gathered force to go further, I found that they had perished in the upheaval
of the ice. One only of the sledges, half buried, I saw near the spot of our bivouac.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alone that same day I began my way southward, and for five days made good progress. On the
eighth day I noticed, stretched right across the south-eastern horizon, a region of purple
vapour which luridly obscured the face of the sun: and day after day I saw it steadily brooding
there. But what it could be I did not understand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, onward through the desert ice I continued my lonely way, with a baleful shrinking terror
in my heart; for very stupendous, alas! is the burden of that Arctic solitude upon one poor
human soul.

Sometimes on a halt I have lain and listened long to the hollow silence, recoiling, crushed
by it, hoping that at least one of the dogs might whine. I have even crept shivering from the
thawed sleeping-bag to flog a dog, so that I might hear a sound.

I had started from the Pole with a well-filled sledge, and the sixteen dogs left alive from
the ice-packing which buried my comrades. This was on the evening of the 13th April. I had
saved from the wreck of our things most of the whey-powder, pemmican, &c., as well as the theodolite,
compass, chronometer, train-oil lamp for cooking, and other implements: I was therefore in
no doubt as to my course, and I had provisions for ninety days. But ten days from the start
my supply of dog-food failed, and I had to begin to slaughter my only companions, one by one.

Well, in the third week the ice became horribly rough, and with moil and toil enough to wear
a bear to death, I did only five miles a day. After the day's work I would crawl with a dying
sigh into the sleeping-bag, clad still in the load of skins which stuck to me a mere filth
of grease, to sleep the sleep of a swine, indifferent if I never woke.

Always--day after day--on the south-eastern horizon, brooded sullenly that curious stretched-out
region of purple vapour, like the smoke of the conflagration of the world. And I noticed that
its length constantly reached out and out, and silently grew.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once I had a very pleasant dream. I dreamed that I was in a garden--an Arabian paradise--so
sweet was the perfume. All the time, however, I had a sub-consciousness of the gale which was
actually blowing from the S.E. over the ice, and, at the moment when I awoke, was half-wittedly
droning to myself; 'It is a Garden of Peaches; but I am not really in the garden: I am really
on the ice; only, the S.E. storm is wafting to me the aroma of this Garden of Peaches.'

I opened my eyes--I started--I sprang to my feet! For, of all the miracles!--I could not doubt--an
actual aroma like peach-blossom was in the algid air about me!

Before I could collect my astonished senses, I began to vomit pretty violently, and at the
same time saw some of the dogs, mere skeletons as they were, vomiting, too. For a long time
I lay very sick in a kind of daze, and, on rising, found two of the dogs dead, and all very
queer. The wind had now changed to the north.

Well, on I staggered, fighting every inch of my deplorably weary way. This odour of peach-blossom,
my sickness, and the death of the two dogs, remained a wonder to me.

Two days later, to my extreme mystification (and joy), I came across a bear and its cub lying
dead at the foot of a hummock. I could not believe my eyes. There she lay on her right side,
a spot of dirty-white in a disordered patch of snow, with one little eye open, and her fierce-looking
mouth also; and the cub lay across her haunch, biting into her rough fur. I set to work upon
her, and allowed the dogs a glorious feed on the blubber, while I myself had a great banquet
on the fresh meat. I had to leave the greater part of the two carcasses, and I can feel again
now the hankering reluctance--quite unnecessary, as it turned out--with which I trudged onwards.
Again and again I found myself asking: 'Now, what could have killed those two bears?'

With brutish stolidness I plodded ever on, almost like a walking machine, sometimes nodding
in sleep while I helped the dogs, or manouvred the sledge over an ice-ridge, pushing or pulling.
On the 3rd June, a month and a half from my start, I took an observation with the theodolite,
and found that I was not yet 400 miles from the Pole, in latitude 84° 50'. It was just as though
some Will, some Will, was obstructing and retarding me.

However, the intolerable cold was over, and soon my clothes no longer hung stark on me like
armour. Pools began to appear in the ice, and presently, what was worse, my God, long lanes,
across which, somehow, I had to get the sledge. But about the same time all fear of starvation
passed away: for on the 6th June I came across another dead bear, on the 7th three, and thenceforth,
in rapidly growing numbers, I met not bears only, but fulmars, guillemots, snipes, Ross's gulls,
little awks--all, all, lying dead on the ice. And never anywhere a living thing, save me, and
the two remaining dogs.

If ever a poor man stood shocked before a mystery, it was I now. I had a big fear on my heart.

On the 2nd July the ice began packing dangerously, and soon another storm broke loose upon
me from the S.W. I left off my trek, and put up the silk tent on a five-acre square of ice
surrounded by lanes: and again--for the second time--as I lay down, I smelled that delightful
strange odour of peach-blossom, a mere whiff of it, and presently afterwards was taken sick.
However, it passed off this time in a couple of hours.

Now it was all lanes, lanes, alas! yet no open water, and such was the difficulty and woe of
my life, that sometimes I would drop flat on the ice, and sob: 'Oh, no more, no more, my God:
here let me die.' The crossing of a lane might occupy ten or twelve entire hours, and then,
on the other side I might find another one opening right before me. Moreover, on the 8th July,
one of the dogs, after a feed on blubber, suddenly died; and there was left me only 'Reinhardt,'
a white-haired Siberian dog, with little pert up-sticking ears, like a cat's. Him, too, I had
to kill on coming to open water.

This did not happen till the 3rd August, nearly four months from the Pole.

I can't think, my God, that any heart of man ever tholed the appalling nightmare and black
abysm of sensations in which, during those four long desert months, I weltered: for though
I was as a brute, I had a man's heart to feel. What I had seen, or dreamed, at the Pole followed
and followed me; and if I shut my poor weary eyes to sleep, those others yonder seemed to watch
me still with their distraught and gloomy gaze, and in my spinning dark dreams spun that eternal
ecstasy of the lake.

However, by the 28th July I knew from the look of the sky, and the absence of fresh-water ice,
that the sea could not be far; so I set to work, and spent two days in putting to rights the
now battered kayak. This done, I had no sooner resumed my way than I sighted far off a streaky
haze, which I knew to be the basalt cliffs of Franz Josef Land; and in a craziness of joy I
stood there, waving my ski-staff about my head, with the senile cheers of a very old man.

In four days this land was visibly nearer, sheer basaltic cliffs mixed with glacier, forming
apparently a great bay, with two small islands in the mid-distance; and at fore-day of the
3rd August I arrived at the definite edge of the pack-ice in moderate weather at about the
freezing-point.

I at once, but with great reluctance, shot Reinhardt, and set to work to get the last of the
provisions, and the most necessary of the implements, into the kayak, making haste to put out
to the toilless luxury of being borne on the water, after all the weary trudge. Within fourteen
hours I was coasting, with my little lug-sail spread, along the shore-ice of that land. It
was midnight of a calm Sabbath, and low on the horizon smoked the drowsing red sun-ball, as
my canvas skiff lightly chopped her little way through this silent sea. Silent, silent: for
neither snort of walrus, nor yelp of fox, nor cry of startled kittiwake, did I hear: but all
was still as the jet-black shadow of the cliffs and glacier on the tranquil sea: and many bodies
of dead things strewed the surface of the water.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I found a little fjord, I went up it to the end where stood a stretch of basalt columns,
looking like a shattered temple of Antediluvians; and when my foot at last touched land, I
sat down there a long, long time in the rubbly snow, and silently wept. My eyes that night
were like a fountain of tears. For the firm land is health and sanity, and dear to the life
of man; but I say that the great ungenial ice is a nightmare, and a blasphemy, and a madness,
and the realm of the Power of Darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

I knew that I was at Franz Josef Land, somewhere or other in the neighbourhood of C. Fligely
(about 82° N.), and though it was so late, and getting cold, I still had the hope of reaching
Spitzbergen that year, by alternately sailing all open water, and dragging the kayak over the
slack drift-ice. All the ice which I saw was good flat fjord-ice, and the plan seemed feasible
enough; so after coasting about a little, and then three days' good rest in the tent at the
bottom of a ravine of columnar basalt opening upon the shore, I packed some bear and walrus
flesh, with what artificial food was left, into the kayak, and I set out early in the morning,
coasting the shore-ice with sail and paddle. In the afternoon I managed to climb a little way
up an iceberg, and made out that I was in a bay whose terminating headlands were invisible.
I accordingly decided to make S.W. by W. to cross it, but, in doing so, I was hardly out of
sight of land, when a northern storm overtook me toward midnight; before I could think, the
little sail was all but whiffed away, and the kayak upset. I only saved it by the happy chance
of being near a floe with an ice-foot, which, projecting under the water, gave me foot-hold;
and I lay on the floe in a mooning state the whole night under the storm, for I was half drowned.

And at once, on recovering myself, I abandoned all thought of whalers and of Europe for that
year. Happily, my instruments, &c., had been saved by the kayak-deck when she capsized.

       *       *       *       *       *

A hundred yards inland from the shore-rim, in a circular place where there was some moss and
soil, I built myself a semi-subterranean Eskimo den for the long Polar night. The spot was
quite surrounded by high sloping walls of basalt, except to the west, where they opened in
a three-foot cleft to the shore, and the ground was strewn with slabs and boulders of granite
and basalt. I found there a dead she-bear, two well-grown cubs, and a fox, the latter having
evidently fallen from the cliffs; in three places the snow was quite red, overgrown with a
red lichen, which at first I took for blood. I did not even yet feel secure from possible bears,
and took care to make my den fairly tight, a work which occupied me nearly four weeks, for
I had no tools, save a hatchet, knife, and metal-shod ski-staff. I dug a passage in the ground
two feet wide, two deep, and ten long, with perpendicular sides, and at its north end a circular
space, twelve feet across, also with perpendicular sides, which I lined with stones; the whole
excavation I covered with inch-thick walrus-hide, skinned during a whole bitter week from four
of a number that lay about the shore-ice; for ridge-pole I used a thin pointed rock which I
found near, though, even so, the roof remained nearly flat. This, when it was finished, I stocked
well, putting in everything, except the kayak, blubber to serve both for fuel and occasional
light, and foods of several sorts, which I procured by merely stretching out the hand. The
roof of both circular part and passage was soon buried under snow and ice, and hardly distinguishable
from the general level of the white-clad ground. Through the passage, if I passed in or out,
I crawled flat, on hands and knees: but that was rare: and in the little round interior, mostly
sitting in a cowering attitude, I wintered, harkening to the large and windy ravings of darkling
December storms above me.

       *       *       *       *       *

All those months the burden of a thought bowed me; and an unanswered question, like the slow
turning of a mechanism, revolved in my gloomy spirit: for everywhere around me lay bears, walruses,
foxes, thousands upon thousands of little awks, kittiwakes, snow-owls, eider-ducks, gulls-dead,
dead. Almost the only living things which I saw were some walruses on the drift-floes: but
very few compared with the number which I expected. It was clear to me that some inconceivable
catastrophe had overtaken the island during the summer, destroying all life about it, except
some few of the amphibia, cetacea, and crustacea.

On the 5th December, having crept out from the den during a southern storm, I had, for the
third time, a distant whiff of that self-same odour of peach-blossom: but now without any after-effects.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, again came Christmas, the New Year--Spring: and on the 22nd May I set out with a well-stocked
kayak. The water was fairly open, and the ice so good, that at one place I could sail the kayak
over it, the wind sending me sliding at a fine pace. Being on the west coast of Franz Josef
Land, I was in as favourable a situation as possible, and I turned my bow southward with much
hope, keeping a good many days just in sight of land. Toward the evening of my third day out
I noticed a large flat floe, presenting far-off a singular and lovely sight, for it seemed
freighted thick with a profusion of pink and white roses, showing in its clear crystal the
empurpled reflection. On getting near I saw that it was covered with millions of Ross's gulls,
all dead, whose pretty rosy bosoms had given it that appearance.

Up to the 29th June I made good progress southward and westward (the weather being mostly excellent),
sometimes meeting dead bears, floating away on floes, sometimes dead or living walrus-herds,
with troop after troop of dead kittiwakes, glaucus and ivory gulls, skuas, and every kind of
Arctic fowl. On that last day--the 29th June--I was about to encamp on a floe soon after midnight,
when, happening to look toward the sun, my eye fell, far away south across the ocean of floes,
upon something--the masts of a ship.

A phantom ship, or a real ship: it was all one; real, I must have instantly felt, it could
not be: but at a sight so incredible my heart set to beating in my bosom as though I must surely
die, and feebly waving the cane oar about my head, I staggered to my knees, and thence with
wry mouth toppled flat.

So overpoweringly sweet was the thought of springing once more, like the beasts of Circe, from
a walrus into a man. At this time I was tearing my bear's-meat just like a bear; I was washing
my hands in walrus-blood to produce a glairy sort of pink cleanliness, in place of the black
grease which chronically coated them.

Worn as I was, I made little delay to set out for that ship; and I had not travelled over water
and ice four hours when, to my in-describable joy, I made out from the top of a steep floe
that she was the Boreal. It seemed most strange that she should be anywhere hereabouts: I could
only conclude that she must have forced and drifted her way thus far westward out of the ice-block
in which our party had left her, and perhaps now was loitering here in the hope of picking
us up on our way to Spitzbergen.

In any case, wild was the haste with which I fought my way to be at her, my gasping mouth all
the time drawn back in a rictus of laughter at the anticipation of their gladness to see me,
their excitement to hear the grand tidings of the Pole attained. Anon I waved the paddle, though
I knew that they could not yet see me, and then I dug deep at the whitish water. What astonished
me was her main-sail and fore-mast square-sail--set that calm morning; and her screws were
still, for she moved not at all. The sun was abroad like a cold spirit of light, touching the
great ocean-room of floes with dazzling spots, and a tint almost of rose was on the world,
as it were of a just-dead bride in her spangles and white array. The Boreal was the one little
distant jet-black spot in all this purity: and upon her, as though she were Heaven, I paddled,
I panted. But she was in a queerish state: by 9 A.M. I could see that. Two of the windmill
arms were not there, and half lowered down her starboard beam a boat hung askew; moreover,
soon after 10 I could clearly see that her main-sail had a long rent down the middle.

I could not at all make her out. She was not anchored, though a sheet-anchor hung over at the
starboard cathead; she was not moored; and two small ice-floes, one on each side, were sluggishly
bombarding her bows.

I began now to wave the paddle, battling for my breath, ecstatic, crazy with excitement, each
second like a year to me. Very soon I could make out someone at the bows, leaning well over,
looking my way. Something put it into my head that it was Sallitt, and I began an impassioned
shouting. 'Hi! Sallitt! Hallo! Hi!' I called.

I did not see him move: I was still a good way off: but there he stood, leaning steadily over,
looking my way. Between me and the ship now was all navigable water among the floes, and the
sight of him so visibly near put into me such a shivering eagerness, that I was nothing else
but a madman for the time, sending the kayak flying with venomous digs in quick-repeated spurts,
and mixing with the diggings my crazy wavings, and with both the daft shoutings of 'Hallo!
Hi! Bravo! I have been to the Pole!'

Well, vanity, vanity. Nearer still I drew: it was broad morning, going on toward noon: I was
half a mile away, I was fifty yards. But on board the Boreal, though now they must have heard
me, seen me, I observed no movement of welcome, but all, all was still as death that still
Arctic morning, my God. Only, the ragged sail flapped a little, and--one on each side--two
ice-floes sluggishly bombarded the bows, with hollow sounds.

I was certain now that Sallitt it was who looked across the ice: but when the ship swung a
little round, I noticed that the direction of his gaze was carried with her movement, he no
longer looking my way.

'Why, Sallitt!' I shouted reproachfully: 'why, Sallitt, man...!' I whined.

But even as I shouted and whined, a perfect wild certainty was in my heart: for an aroma like
peach, my God, had been suddenly wafted from the ship upon me, and I must have very well known
then that that watchful outlook of Sallitt saw nothing, and on the Boreal were dead men all;
indeed, very soon I saw one of his eyes looking like a glass eye which has slid askew, and
glares distraught. And now again my wretched body failed, and my head dropped forward, where
I sat, upon the kayak-deck.

       *       *       *       *       *

Well, after a long time, I lifted myself to look again at that forlorn and wandering craft.
There she lay, quiet, tragic, as it were culpable of the dark secret she bore; and Sallitt,
who had been such good friends with me, would not cease his stare. I knew quite well why he
was there: he had leant over to vomit, and had leant ever since, his forearms pressed on the
bulwark-beam, his left knee against the boards, and his left shoulder propped on the cathead.
When I came quite near, I saw that with every bump of the two floes against the bows, his face
shook in response, and nodded a little; strange to say, he had no covering on his head, and
I noted the play of the faint breezes in his uncut hair. After a time I would approach no more,
for I was afraid; I did not dare, the silence of the ship seemed so sacred and awful; and till
late afternoon I sat there, watching the black and massive hull. Above her water-line emerged
all round a half-floating fringe of fresh-green sea-weed, proving old neglect; an abortive
attempt had apparently been made to lower, or take in, the larch-wood pram, for there she hung
by a jammed davit-rope, stern up, bow in the water; the only two arms of the windmill moved
this way and that, through some three degrees, with an andante creaking sing-song; some washed
clothes, tied on the bow-sprit rigging to dry, were still there; the iron casing all round
the bluff bows was red and rough with rust; at several points the rigging was in considerable
tangle; occasionally the boom moved a little with a tortured skirling cadence; and the sail,
rotten, I presume, from exposure--for she had certainly encountered no bad weather--gave out
anon a heavy languid flap at a rent down the middle. Besides Sallitt, looking out there where
he had jammed himself, I saw no one.

By a paddle-stroke now, and another presently, I had closely approached her about four in the
afternoon, though my awe of the ship was complicated by that perfume of hers, whose fearful
effects I knew. My tentative approach, however, proved to me, when I remained unaffected, that,
here and now, whatever danger there had been was past; and finally, by a hanging rope, with
a thumping desperation of heart, I clambered up her beam.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had died, it seemed, very suddenly, for nearly all the twelve were in poses of activity.
Egan was in the very act of ascending the companion-way; Lamburn was sitting against the chart-room
door, apparently cleaning two carbines; Odling at the bottom of the engine-room stair seemed
to be drawing on a pair of reindeer komagar; and Cartwright, who was often in liquor, had his
arms frozen tight round the neck of Martin, whom he seemed to be kissing, they two lying stark
at the foot of the mizzen-mast.

Over all--over men, decks, rope-coils--in the cabin, in the engine-room--between skylight leaves--on
every shelf, in every cranny--lay a purplish ash or dust, very impalpably fine. And steadily
reigning throughout the ship, like the very spirit of death, was that aroma of peach-blossom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here it had reigned, as I could see from the log-dates, from the rust on the machinery, from
the look of the bodies, from a hundred indications, during something over a year. It was, therefore,
mainly by the random workings of winds and currents that this fragrant ship of death had been
brought hither to me.

And this was the first direct intimation which I had that the Unseen Powers (whoever and whatever
they may be), who through the history of the world had been so very, very careful to conceal
their Hand from the eyes of men, hardly any longer intended to be at the pains to conceal their
Hand from me. It was just as though the Boreal had been openly presented to me by a spiritual
agency, which, though I could not see it, I could readily apprehend.

       *       *       *       *       *

The dust, though very thin and flighty above-decks, lay thickly deposited below, and after
having made a tour of investigation throughout the ship, the first thing which I did was to
examine that--though I had tasted nothing all day, and was exhausted to death. I found my own
microscope where I had left it in the box in my berth to starboard, though I had to lift up
Egan to get at it, and to step over Lamburn to enter the chart-room; but there, toward evening,
I sat at the table and bent to see if I could make anything of the dust, while it seemed to
me as if all the myriad spirits of men that have sojourned on the earth, and angel and devil,
and all Time and all Eternity, hung silent round for my decision; and such an ague had me,
that for a long time my wandering finger-tips, all ataxic with agitation, eluded every delicate
effort which I made, and I could nothing do. Of course, I know that an odour of peach-blossom
in the air, resulting in death, could only be associated with some vaporous effluvium of cyanogen,
or of hydrocyanic ('prussic') acid, or of both; and when I at last managed to examine some
of the dust under the microscope, I was not therefore surprised to find, among the general
mass of purplish ash, a number of bright-yellow particles, which could only be minute crystals
of potassic ferrocyanide. What potassic ferrocyanide was doing on board the Boreal I did not
know, and I had neither the means, nor the force of mind, alas! to dive then further into the
mystery; I understood only that by some extraordinary means the air of the region just south
of the Polar environ had been impregnated with a vapour which was either cyanogen, or some
product of cyanogen; also, that this deadly vapour, which is very soluble, had by now either
been dissolved by the sea, or else dispersed into space (probably the latter), leaving only
its faint after-perfume; and seeing this, I let my poor abandoned head drop again on the table,
and long hours I sat there staring mad, for I had a suspicion, my God, and a fear, in my breast.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Boreal, I found, contained sufficient provisions, untouched by the dust, in cases, casks,
&c., to last me, probably, fifty years. After two days, when I had partially scrubbed and boiled
the filth of fifteen months from my skin, and solaced myself with better food, I overhauled
her thoroughly, and spent three more days in oiling and cleaning the engine. Then, all being
ready, I dragged my twelve dead and laid them together in two rows on the chart-room floor;
and I hoisted for love the poor little kayak which had served me through so many tribulations.
At nine in the morning of the 6th July, a week from my first sighting of the Boreal, I descended
to the engine-room to set out.

The screws, like those of most quite modern ships, were driven by the simple contrivance of
a constant stream of liquid air, contained in very powerful tanks, exploding through capillary
tubes into non-expansion slide-valve chests, much as in the ordinary way with steam: a motor
which gave her, in spite of her bluff hulk, a speed of sixteen knots. It is, therefore, the
simplest thing for one man to take these ships round the world, since their movement, or stopping,
depend upon nothing but the depressing or raising of a steel handle, provided that one does
not get blown to the sky meantime, as liquid air, in spite of its thousand advantages, occasionally
blows people. At any rate, I had tanks of air sufficient to last me through twelve years' voyaging;
and there was the ordinary machine on board for making it, with forty tons of coal, in case
of need, in the bunkers, and two excellent Belleville boilers: so I was well supplied with
motors at least.

The ice here was quite slack, and I do not think I ever saw Arctic weather so bright and gay,
the temperature at 41°. I found that I was midway between Franz Josef and Spitzbergen, in latitude
79° 23' N. and longitude 39° E.; my way was perfectly clear; and something almost like a mournful
hopefulness was in me as the engines slid into their clanking turmoil, and those long-silent
screws began to churn the Arctic sea. I ran up with alacrity and took my stand at the wheel;
and the bows of my eventful Argo turned southward and westward.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I needed food or sleep, the ship slept, too: when I awoke, she continued her way.

Sixteen hours a day sometimes I stood sentinel at that wheel, overlooking the varied monotony
of the ice-sea, till my knees would give, and I wondered why a wheel at which one might sit
was not contrived, rather delicate steering being often required among the floes and bergs.
By now, however, I was less weighted with my ball of Polar clothes, and stood almost slim in
a Lap great-coat, a round Siberian fur cap on my head.

At midnight when I threw myself into my old berth, it was just as though the engines, subsided
now into silence, were a dead thing, and had a ghost which haunted me; for I heard them still,
and yet not them, but the silence of their ghost.

Sometimes I would startle from sleep, horrified to the heart at some sound of exploding iceberg,
or bumping floe, noising far through that white mystery of quietude, where the floes and bergs
were as floating tombs, and the world a liquid cemetery. Never could I describe the strange
Doom's-day shock with which such a sound would recall me from far depths of chaos to recollection
of myself: for often-times, both waking and in nightmare, I did not know on which planet I
was, nor in which Age, but felt myself adrift in the great gulf of time and space and circumstance,
without bottom for my consciousness to stand upon; and the world was all mirage and a new show
to me; and the boundaries of dream and waking lost.

Well, the weather was most fair all the time, and the sea like a pond. During the morning of
the fifth day, the 11th July, I entered, and went moving down, an extraordinary long avenue
of snow-bergs and floes, most regularly placed, half a mile across and miles long, like a Titanic
double-procession of statues, or the Ming Tombs, but rising and sinking on the cadenced swell;
many towering high, throwing placid shadows on the aisle between; some being of a lucid emerald
tint; and three or four pouring down cascades that gave a far and chaunting sound. The sea
between was of a strange thick bluishness, almost like raw egg-white; while, as always here,
some snow-clouds, white and woolly, floated in the pale sky. Down this avenue, which produced
a mysterious impression of Cyclopean cathedrals and odd sequesteredness, I had not passed a
mile, when I sighted a black object at the end.

I rushed to the shrouds, and very soon made out a whaler.

Again the same panting agitations, mad rage to be at her, at once possessed me; I flew to the
indicator, turned the lever to full, then back to give the wheel a spin, then up the main-mast
ratlins, waving a long foot-bandage of vadmel tweed picked up at random, and by the time I
was within five hundred yards of her, had worked myself to such a pitch, that I was again shouting
that futile madness: 'Hullo! Hi! Bravo! I have been to the Pole!'

And those twelve dead that I had in the chart-room there must have heard me, and the men on
the whaler must have heard me, and smiled their smile.

For, as to that whaler, I should have known better at once, if I had not been crazy, since
she looked like a ship of death, her boom slamming to port and starboard on the gentle heave
of the sea, and her fore-sail reefed that serene morning. Only when I was quite near her, and
hurrying down to stop the engines, did the real truth, with perfect suddenness, drench my heated
brain; and I almost ran into her, I was so stunned.

However, I stopped the Boreal in time, and later on lowered the kayak, and boarded the other.

This ship had evidently been stricken silent in the midst of a perfect drama of activity, for
I saw not one of her crew of sixty-two who was not busy, except one boy. I found her a good-sized
thing of 500 odd tons, ship-rigged, with auxiliary engine of seventy horse-power, and pretty
heavily armour-plated round the bows. There was no part of her which I did not over-haul, and
I could see that they had had a great time with whales, for a mighty carcass, attached to the
outside of the ship by the powerful cant-purchase tackle, had been in process of flensing and
cutting-in, and on the deck two great blankets of blubber, looking each a ton-weight, surrounded
by twenty-seven men in many attitudes, some terrifying to see, some disgusting, several grotesque,
all so unhuman, the whale dead, and the men dead, too, and death was there, and the rank-flourishing
germs of Inanity, and a mesmerism, and a silence, whose dominion was established, and its reign
was growing old. Four of them, who had been removing the gums from a mass of stratified whalebone
at the mizzen-mast foot, were quite imbedded in whale-flesh; also, in a barrel lashed to the
top of the main top-gallant masthead was visible the head of a man with a long pointed beard,
looking steadily out over the sea to the S.W., which made me notice that five only of the probable
eight or nine boats were on board; and after visiting the 'tween-decks, where I saw considerable
quantities of stowed whalebone plates, and about fifty or sixty iron oil-tanks, and cut-up
blubber; and after visiting cabin, engine-room, fo'cas'le, where I saw a lonely boy of fourteen
with his hand grasping a bottle of rum under all the turned-up clothes in a chest, he, at the
moment of death, being evidently intent upon hiding it; and after two hours' search of the
ship, I got back to my own, and half an hour later came upon all the three missing whale-boats
about a mile apart, and steered zig-zag near to each. They contained five men each and a steerer,
and one had the harpoon-gun fired, with the loose line coiled round and round the head and
upper part of the stroke line-manager; and in the others hundreds of fathoms of coiled rope,
with toggle-irons, whale-lances, hand-harpoons, and dropped heads, and grins, and lazy abandon,
and eyes that stared, and eyes that dozed, and eyes that winked.

After this I began to sight ships not infrequently, and used regularly to have the three lights
burning all night. On the 12th July I met one, on the 15th two, on the 16th one, on the 17th
three, on the 18th two--all Greenlanders, I think: but, of the nine, I boarded only three,
the glass quite clearly showing me, when yet far off, that on the others was no life; and on
the three which I boarded were dead men; so that that suspicion which I had, and that fear,
grew very heavy upon me.

