Our pass from the General Head-quarters carried us to Sainte Menehould on the edge of the Argonne,
where we had to apply to the Head-quarters of the division for a farther extension. The Staff
are lodged in a house considerably the worse for German occupancy, where offices have been
improvised by means of wooden hoardings, and where, sitting in a bare passage on a frayed damask
sofa surmounted by theatrical posters and faced by a bed with a plum-coloured counterpane,
we listened for a while to the jingle of telephones, the rat-tat of typewriters, the steady
hum of dictation and the coming and going of hurried despatch-bearers and orderlies. The extension
to the permit was presently delivered with the courteous request that we should push on to
Verdun as fast as possible, as civilian motors were not wanted on the road that afternoon;
and this request, coupled with the evident stir of activity at Head-quarters, gave us the impression
that there must be a good deal happening beyond the low line of hills to the north. How much
there was we were soon to know.

We left Sainte Menehould at about eleven, and before twelve o'clock we were nearing a large
village on a ridge from which the land swept away to right and left in ample reaches. The first
glimpse of the outlying houses showed nothing unusual; but presently the main street turned
and dipped downward, and below and beyond us lay a long stretch of ruins: the calcined remains
of Clermont-en-Argonne, destroyed by the Germans on the 4th of September. The free and lofty
situation of the little town--for it was really a good deal more than a village--makes its
present state the more lamentable. One can see it from so far off, and through the torn traceries
of its ruined church the eye travels over so lovely a stretch of country! No doubt its beauty
enriched the joy of wrecking it.

At the farther end of what was once the main street another small knot of houses has survived.
Chief among them is the Hospice for old men, where Sister Gabrielle Rosnet, when the authorities
of Clermont took to their heels, stayed behind to defend her charges, and where, ever since,
she has nursed an undiminishing stream of wounded from the eastern front. We found Soeur Rosnet,
with her Sisters, preparing the midday meal of her patients in the little kitchen of the Hospice:
the kitchen which is also her dining-room and private office. She insisted on our finding time
to share the filet and fried potatoes that were just being taken off the stove, and while we
lunched she told us the story of the invasion--of the Hospice doors broken down "a coups de
crosse" and the grey officers bursting in with revolvers, and finding her there before them,
in the big vaulted vestibule, "alone with my old men and my Sisters." Soeur Gabrielle Rosnet
is a small round active woman, with a shrewd and ruddy face of the type that looks out calmly
from the dark background of certain Flemish pictures. Her blue eyes are full of warmth and
humour, and she puts as much gaiety as wrath into her tale. She does not spare epithets in
talking of "ces satanes Allemands"--these Sisters and nurses of the front have seen sights
to dry up the last drop of sentimental pity--but through all the horror of those fierce September
days, with Clermont blazing about her and the helpless remnant of its inhabitants under the
perpetual threat of massacre, she retained her sense of the little inevitable absurdities of
life, such as her not knowing how to address the officer in command "because he was so tall
that I couldn't see up to his shoulder-straps."--"Et ils etaient tous comme ca," she added,
a sort of reluctant admiration in her eyes.

