Hard work they had to get at all along it when they had passed the gates. All the stream of
people seemed now to be setting against them.  The idlers jested upon their strange dress;
and if they did but try to traffic for their lord, the rude children of the town would gather
round them, and hoot, and cry: so that they could not manage to carry on any trade at all.

Then, as I watched them, I saw that some who had been the loudest in talking of what they should
do when they were tried, were now the first to give up altogether making any head at all against
the crowd of that city.  They packed up what goods they might have, and began to think only
of looking about them, and following the crowd, and pleasing themselves, like any of the men
around them.  Then I looked after some of these, and I saw that one of them was led on by the
crowd to a place in the town where there was a great show.  Outside of it were men in many-coloured
dresses, who blew with trumpets, and jested, and cried aloud, and begged all to come in and
see the strange sights which were stored within.

Now when the servant came to this place, he watched one and another go in, until at last he
also longed to go in and see the sights which were to be gazed on within.  So he went to the
door, and the porter asked him for money; but when he drew out his purse, and the porter saw
that his money belonged to some strange place, and was quite unlike the coin used in that town,
he only laughed at it, and said it was good for nothing there, and bid him "stand back."  So
as he turned away, the porter saw the rich bundle on his back, and then he spoke to him in
another tone, and he said, "I will let you in, if you like to give me that bundle of goods."
Then for a moment the servant was checked.  He thought of his lord and of the reckoning, and
he remembered the words, "As good stewards of the manifold grace of God;" and he had almost
determined to turn back, and to fight his way to the market-place, and to trade for his lord,
let it cost him what it might;--but just at the moment there was a great burst of the showman's
trumpets; and he heard the people shouting for joy within; and so he forgot all but his great
desire, and slipping off the bundle from his shoulders, he put it into the hands of the porter,
and passed in, and I saw him no more.

Then I saw another, who was standing at the corner of a street gating at some strange antics
which were being played by a company of the townsmen. And as he gazed upon them, he forgot
all about his trading for his master, and thought only of seeing more of this strange sight.
Then I saw that whilst he was thinking only of these follies, some evil-minded men gathered
round him, and before he was aware of it, they secretly stole from him all the gold which his
lord had given him to lay out for him.  The servant did not even know when it was gone, so
much was he thinking of staring at the sight before him.  But it made me very sad to think
that when he went to buy for his master, he would find out, too late, his loss; and that when
the trumpet sounded, he would have nothing to carry back with him on the day of reckoning.

Some of these loiterers, too, were treated even worse than this.  One of them I saw whom the
shows and lights of that town led on from street to street, until he came quite to its farther
end; and then he thought that he saw before him, beyond some lonely palings, still finer sights
than any he had left; and so he set out to cross over those fields, and see those sights. 
And when he was half over, some wicked robbers, who laid wait in those desolate places, rushed
out upon him from their lurking- place, and ill used him sorely, and robbed him of all his
goods and money, and left him upon the ground hardly able to get back to the town which he
had left.

Then I saw one of these loiterers who, as he was looking idly at the sights round him, grew
very grave, and began to tremble from head to foot.  One of his fellows, who stood by and saw
him, quickly asked him what made him tremble.  At first he could not answer; but after a while
he said, that the sound of the trumpet which they had just heard had made him think of the
great trumpet-sound of their master, which was to call them all back to his presence, and that
he trembled because the evening was coming on, and he had not yet traded for his lord.  And
"How," he said in great fear, "how shall we ever stand that reckoning with our hands empty?"
Then some of his companions in idleness laughed and jeered greatly, and mocked the poor trembler.
But his fears were wiser than their mockings; and so, it seemed, he knew, for he cared nothing
for them; but only said to them, very sadly and gravely, "You are in the same danger, how then
can you jeer at me?"  And with that he pointed their eyes up to the sky, and shewed them how
low the sun had got already, and that it wanted but an hour at the most to his setting, and
then that the trumpet might sound at any moment, and they have nothing to bear home to their lord.

Now, as he spoke, one listened eagerly to him; and whilst the others jeered, he said very gravely,
"What can we do?  Is it quite too late?" "It is never too late," said the other, "till the
trumpet sounds; and though we have lost so much of the day, perchance we can yet do something:
come with me to the market-place, and we will try."  So the other joined him, and off they
set, passing through their companions, who shouted after them all the way they went, until
the townsmen who stood round began to jeer and shout after them also: so that all the town
was moved.  A hard time those two had now, and much they wished that they had gone to the market-place
in the early morning, when the streets were empty, and the busy servants had passed so easily
along.  Many were the rough words they had now to bear; many the angry, or ill-natured, crowd
through which they had to push; and if any where they met one of their late and idle companions,
he was sure to stir up all the street against them, when he saw them pushing on to the market-place.

"Do you think that we shall ever get there?" said he who had been moved by the other's words
to him, who led the way, and buffeted with the crowd, like a man swimming through many rough
waves in the strong stream of some swift river.  "Do you think that we shall ever get there?"
"Yes, yes," said the other; "we shall get there still, if we do but persevere." "But it is
so hard to make any way, and the streets seem to grow fuller and fuller; I am afraid that I
shall never get through."

Just as he spoke, a great band of the townspeople, with music, and trumpets, and dancing, met
them like a mighty wave of the sea, and seemed sure to drive them back: one of their old companions
was dancing amongst the rest; and as I looked hard at him, I saw that it was the same who had
given away his precious burden in order to go into the show.  Now, as soon as he saw these
his former fellows, he called to them by their names, and bid them join him and the townsmen
round him.  But he that was leading the way shook his head, and said boldly: "No: we will not
join with you; we are going to the market-place to traffic for our lord."  "It is too late
for that," said he; "you lost the morning, and now you cannot trade."  Then I saw that he who
before had trembled exceedingly grew very pale; but still he held on his way; and he said,--"Yes,
we have lost the morning, and a sore thing it is for us; but our good lord will help us even
yet; and we WILL serve him, 'redeeming the time, because the days are evil.'"  Then he turned
to the other and said to him,--

"And will not you stop either?  Do not be fooled by this madman: what use is it to go to buy
when the shops are all shut, and the market empty?" Then he hung down his head, and looked
as though he would have turned back, and fallen into the throng; but his fellow seized him
by the hand, and bid him take courage, and think upon his kind master, and upon the king's
son, whose very blood had been shed for them; and with that he seemed to gather a little confidence,
and held for a while on in his way with the other.

Then their old companion turned all his seeming love into hatred, and he called upon the crowd
round him to lay hands on them and stop them; and this the rabble would fain have done, but
that, as it seemed to me, a power greater than their own was with those servants, and strengthened
them; until they pushed the rude people aside on the right and on the left, and passed safely
through them into another street.

Here there were fewer persons, and they had a breathing-time for a while; and as they heard
the sound of music and of the crowd passing by at some little distance from them, they began
to gather heart, and to talk to one another.  "I never thought," said the one, "that I could
have held on through that crowd; and I never could, if you had not stretched out your hand
to help me."  "Say, rather, if our master's strength had not been with us," said the other.
"But do you think," said he that was fearful, "that he will accept any thing we can bring him
now, when the best part of the day is over?"  "Yes, I do," he replied.  "I have a good hope
that he will; for I remember how he said, 'Return, ye backsliding children, return ye even
unto me.'"  "But how can one who is so trembling and fearful as I am ever traffic for him?"
"You can, if you will but hold on; for he has once spoken of his servants 'as faint yet pursuing.'"
"Well," said the other, "I wish that I had your courage; but I do believe that I should not
dare to meet such another crowd as that we have just passed through; I really thought that
they would tear us in pieces."  "Our king will never let that be," said the other, "if only
we trust in him." "But are you sure," replied he, "that our king does see us in this town?"

Just as he said this, and before his companion had time to answer him again, they heard a louder
noise than ever, of men dancing, and singing, and crowding, and music playing, and horns blowing,
as if all the mad sports of the city were coming upon them in one burst.  At the front of all
they could see their old companion; for the band had turned round by a different street, and
now were just beginning to come down that one up which they were passing.  Then he who had
been affrighted before, turned white as snow; and he looked this way and that, to see what
he could do.

Now it so happened, that just by where they stood was a great shop, and in its windows there
seemed to shine precious stones and jewels, and fine crystals, and gold and ivory.  And, as
he looked, his eyes fell full upon the shop, and he said to his fellow,--"Look here; surely
here is what we want: let us turn in here and traffic for our master, and then we shall escape
all this rout which is coming upon us."  "No, no!" said the other; "we must push on to the
market; that is our appointed place; there our lord bids us trade: we must not turn aside from
the trouble which our lateness has brought upon us--we must not offer to our master that which
costs us nothing.  Play the man, and we shall soon be in the market."

"But we shall be torn in pieces," said the other.  "Look at the great crowd: and even now it
seems that our old companion sees me, and is beginning to lead the rabble upon us."  "Never
fear," said he who led the way; "our king will keep us.  'I will not be afraid for ten thousands
of the people who have set themselves against us round about.'"

