We had four very handsome horses, and the driver was very proud of his turnout. He would bowl
along on a reasonable trot, on the highway, but when he entered a village he did it on a furious
run, and accompanied it with a frenzy of ceaseless whip-crackings that sounded like volleys
of musketry. He tore through the narrow streets and around the sharp curves like a moving earthquake,
showering his volleys as he went, and before him swept a continuous tidal wave of scampering
children, ducks, cats, and mothers clasping babies which they had snatched out of the way of
the coming destruction; and as this living wave washed aside, along the walls, its elements,
being safe, forgot their fears and turned their admiring gaze upon that gallant driver till
he thundered around the next curve and was lost to sight.

He was a great man to those villagers, with his gaudy clothes and his terrific ways. Whenever
he stopped to have his cattle watered and fed with loaves of bread, the villagers stood around
admiring him while he swaggered about, the little boys gazed up at his face with humble homage,
and the landlord brought out foaming mugs of beer and conversed proudly with him while he drank.
Then he mounted his lofty box, swung his explosive whip, and away he went again, like a storm.
I had not seen anything like this before since I was a boy, and the stage used to flourish
the village with the dust flying and the horn tooting.

When we reached the base of the Kaiserstuhl, we took two more horses; we had to toil along
with difficulty for an hour and a half or two hours, for the ascent was not very gradual, but
when we passed the backbone and approached the station, the driver surpassed all his previous
efforts in the way of rush and clatter. He could not have six horses all the time, so he made
the most of his chance while he had it.

Up to this point we had been in the heart of the William Tell region. The hero is not forgotten,
by any means, or held in doubtful veneration. His wooden image, with his bow drawn, above the
doors of taverns, was a frequent feature of the scenery.

About noon we arrived at the foot of the Bruenig Pass, and made a two-hour stop at the village
hotel, another of those clean, pretty, and thoroughly well-kept inns which are such an astonishment
to people who are accustomed to hotels of a dismally different pattern in remote country-towns.
There was a lake here, in the lap of the great mountains, the green slopes that rose toward
the lower crags were graced with scattered Swiss cottages nestling among miniature farms and
gardens, and from out a leafy ambuscade in the upper heights tumbled a brawling cataract.

Carriage after carriage, laden with tourists and trunks, arrived, and the quiet hotel was soon
populous. We were early at the table d'hôte and saw the people all come in. There were twenty-five,
perhaps. They were of various nationalities, but we were the only Americans. Next to me sat
an English bride, and next to her sat her new husband, whom she called "Neddy," though he was
big enough and stalwart enough to be entitled to his full name. They had a pretty little lovers'
quarrel over what wine they should have. Neddy was for obeying the guide-book and taking the
wine of the country; but the bride said:

"What, that nahsty stuff!"

"It isn't nahsty, pet, it's quite good."

"It IS nahsty."

"No, it ISN'T nahsty."

"It's Oful nahsty, Neddy, and I shahn't drink it."

Then the question was, what she must have. She said he knew very well that she never drank
anything but champagne.

She added:

"You know very well papa always has champagne on his table, and I've always been used to it."

Neddy made a playful pretense of being distressed about the expense, and this amused her so
much that she nearly exhausted herself with laughter--and this pleased HIM so much that he
repeated his jest a couple of times, and added new and killing varieties to it. When the bride
finally recovered, she gave Neddy a love-box on the arm with her fan, and said with arch severity:

"Well, you would HAVE me--nothing else would do--so you'll have to make the best of a bad bargain.
DO order the champagne, I'm Oful dry."

So with a mock groan which made her laugh again, Neddy ordered the champagne.

The fact that this young woman had never moistened the selvedge edge of her soul with a less
plebeian tipple than champagne, had a marked and subduing effect on Harris. He believed she
belonged to the royal family. But I had my doubts.

We heard two or three different languages spoken by people at the table and guessed out the
nationalities of most of the guests to our satisfaction, but we failed with an elderly gentleman
and his wife and a young girl who sat opposite us, and with a gentleman of about thirty-five
who sat three seats beyond Harris. We did not hear any of these speak. But finally the last-named
gentleman left while we were not noticing, but we looked up as he reached the far end of the
table. He stopped there a moment, and made his toilet with a pocket comb. So he was a German;
or else he had lived in German hotels long enough to catch the fashion. When the elderly couple
and the young girl rose to leave, they bowed respectfully to us. So they were Germans, too.
This national custom is worth six of the other one, for export.

After dinner we talked with several Englishmen, and they inflamed our desire to a hotter degree
than ever, to see the sights of Meiringen from the heights of the Bruenig Pass. They said the
view was marvelous, and that one who had seen it once could never forget it. They also spoke
of the romantic nature of the road over the pass, and how in one place it had been cut through
a flank of the solid rock, in such a way that the mountain overhung the tourist as he passed
by; and they furthermore said that the sharp turns in the road and the abruptness of the descent
would afford us a thrilling experience, for we should go down in a flying gallop and seem to
be spinning around the rings of a whirlwind, like a drop of whiskey descending the spirals
of a corkscrew.

I got all the information out of these gentlemen that we could need; and then, to make everything
complete, I asked them if a body could get hold of a little fruit and milk here and there,
in case of necessity. They threw up their hands in speechless intimation that the road was
simply paved with refreshment-peddlers. We were impatient to get away, now, and the rest of
our two-hour stop rather dragged. But finally the set time arrived and we began the ascent.
Indeed it was a wonderful road. It was smooth, and compact, and clean, and the side next the
precipices was guarded all along by dressed stone posts about three feet high, placed at short
distances apart. The road could not have been better built if Napoleon the First had built
it. He seems to have been the introducer of the sort of roads which Europe now uses. All literature
which describes life as it existed in England, France, and Germany up to the close of the last
century, is filled with pictures of coaches and carriages wallowing through these three countries
in mud and slush half-wheel deep; but after Napoleon had floundered through a conquered kingdom
he generally arranged things so that the rest of the world could follow dry-shod.

