LIVES OF JOHN DONNE, HENRY WOTTON, RICH'D HOOKER, GEORGE HERBERT, &c, VOLUME TWO

by

IZAAK WALTON

This issue of "Walton's Lives" is based upon John Major's edition of 1825, which was printed
from a copy of the edition of 1675, "corrected by Walton's own pen," Major's "illustrative
notes" have been preserved, with some modifications by later hands. Mr. AUSTIN DOBSON has read
the text, added the marginalia, and contributed the supplementary notes.

I.G.

August 9,

Walton's birthday,

1898.

CONTENTS

The Life of Mr. Richard Hooker

The Life of Mr. George Herbert, Prebendary of Salisbury Cathedral

The Life of Dr. Robert Sanderson, Late Lord Bishop of Lincoln

THE LIFE OF MR. RICHARD HOOKER:

THE AUTHOR OF THOSE LEARNED BOOKS OF THE LAWS OF ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY.

  "Judicious Hooker, though the cost be spent
  On him, that hath a lasting monument
  In his own books; yet ought we to express
  If not the worth, yet our respectfulness."

SIR WIL. COWPER

INTRODUCTION

[Sidenote: Introduction]

I have been persuaded, by a friend whom I reverence, and ought to obey, to write the Life of
RICHARD HOOKER, the happy Author of Five--if not more--of the eight learned books of "The Laws
of Ecclesiastical Polity." And though I have undertaken it, yet it hath been with some unwillingness:
because I foresee that it must prove to me, and especially at this time of my age, a work of
much labour to enquire, consider, research, and determine what is needful to be known concerning
him. For I knew him not in his life, and must therefore not only look back to his death,--now
sixty-four years past,--but almost fifty years beyond, that, even to his childhood and youth;
and gather thence such observations and prognostics as may at least adorn, if not prove necessary
for the completing of what I have undertaken.

[Sidenote: Reasons for this Life]

This trouble I foresee, and foresee also that it is impossible to escape censures; against
which I will not hope my well-meaning and diligence can protect me,--for I consider the age
in which I live--and shall therefore but intreat of my Reader a suspension of his censures,
till I have made known unto him some reasons, which I myself would now gladly believe do make
me in some measure fit for this undertaking; and if these reasons shall not acquit me from
all censures, they may at least abate of their severity, and this is all I can probably hope
for. My reasons follow.

About forty years past--for I am now past the seventy of my age--I began a happy affinity with
William Cranmer,--now with God,--grand-nephew unto the great Archbishop of that name;--a family
of noted prudence and resolution; with him and two of his sisters I had an entire and free
friendship: one of them was the wife of Dr. Spencer,[1] a bosom friend and sometime com-pupil
with Mr. Hooker in Corpus Christi College in Oxford, and after President of the same. I name
them here, for that I shall have occasion to mention them in the following discourse, as also
George Cranmer, their brother, of whose useful abilities my Reader may have a more authentic
testimony than my pen can purchase for him, by that of our learned Camden and others.

[Sidenote: Hooker's friends]

This William Cranmer and his two fore-named sisters had some affinity, and a most familiar
friendship, with Mr. Hooker, and had had some part of their education with him in his house,
when he was parson of Bishop's-Bourne near Canterbury; in which City their good father then
lived. They had, I say, a part of their education with him as myself, since that time, a happy
cohabitation with them; and having some years before read part of Mr. Hooker's works with great
liking and satisfaction, my affection to them made me a diligent inquisitor into many things
that concerned him; as namely, of his persons, his nature, the management of his time, his
wife, his family, and the fortune of him and his. Which enquiry hath given me much advantage
in the knowledge of what is now under my consideration, and intended for the satisfaction of
my Reader.

[Sidenote: Conclusion]

I had also a friendship with the Reverend Dr. Usher,[2] the late learned Archbishop of Armagh;
and with Dr. Morton, the late learned and charitable Bishop of Durham; as also the learned
John Hales, of Eton College; and with them also--who loved the very name of Mr. Hooker--I have
had many discourses concerning him; and from them, and many others that have now put off mortality,
I might have had more informations, if I could then have admitted a thought of any fitness
for what by persuasion I have now undertaken. But though that full harvest be irrecoverably
lost, yet my memory hath preserved some gleanings, and my diligence made such additions to
them, as I hope will prove useful to the completing of what I intend: in the discovery of which
I shall be faithful, and with this assurance put a period to my Introduction.

[Footnote 1: A native of Suffolk, one of the Clerks of Corpus Christi College, Oxford, and
Greek Reader. He entered Orders, became a noted Preacher, Chaplain to James I., and a great
admirer of Richard Hooker and the famous Dr. John Reynolds, the latter of whom he succeeded
as Master of his College. About four years after Hooker's death, he published the Five Books
of Ecclesiastical Polity, with a Preface; and dying on April 3rd, 1614, was buried at Oxford.]

[Footnote 2: The illustrious Primate of Ireland, born in Dublin, Jan. 4th, 1580. He was the
first Student of Trinity College, in 1593, and in 1610 he was made Bishop of Meath, whence
he was translated to Armagh, in 1625. In the Irish Rebellion, he lost every thing but his library,
which he conveyed to England, where he died in retirement, March 21st, 1655-56.]

THE LIFE OF MR. RICHARD HOOKER.

[Sidenote: Birth and parentage]

It is not to be doubted, but that Richard Hooker was born at Heavy-tree, near, or within the
precincts, or in the City of Exeter; a City which may justly boast, that it was the birth-place
of him and Sir Thomas Bodley; as indeed the County may, in which it stands, that it hath furnished
this nation with Bishop Jewel, Sir Francis Drake, Sir Walter Raleigh, and many others, memorable
for their valour and learning. He was born about the year of our Redemption 1553, and of parents
that were not so remarkable for their extraction or riches, as for their virtue and industry,
and God's blessing upon both; by which they were enabled to educate their children in some
degree of learning, of which our Richard Hooker may appear to be one fair testimony, and that
nature is not so partial as always to give the great blessings of wisdom and learning, and
with them the greater blessings of virtue and government, to those only that are of a more
high and honourable birth.

[Sidenote: "His complexion"]

His complexion--if we may guess by him at the age of forty--was sanguine, with a mixture of
choler; and yet his motion was slow even in his youth, and so was his speech, never expressing
an earnestness in either of them, but an humble gravity suitable to the aged. And it is observed,--so
far as enquiry is able to look back at this distance of time,--that at his being a school-boy
he was an early questionist, quietly inquisitive "why this was, and that was not, to be remembered?
why this was granted, and that denied?" This being mixed with a remarkable modesty, and a sweet
serene quietness of nature, and with them a quick apprehension of many perplexed parts of learning,
imposed then upon him as a scholar, made his Master and others to believe him to have an inward
blessed divine light, and therefore to consider him to be a little wonder. "MY DEAR MR. WATKIN," On Friday last, the 21st instant, our Parliament
was prorogued.

We have had a very hard and laborious session.

For my part, I had charge of the two most difficult measures, the Militia and the Fortifications measures,
which I carried through successfully, and which were sanctioned on the 21st instant. Without being
considered guilty of boasting, I can say, and every man in Parliament will say, that I was
the only one who could carry through these measures. My Lower Canada Parliamentary strength supported
me nobly. I consider that in carrying these two measures to successful issue, I have rendered a good service
to Canada, to England, and to British transactions. And the good man told them also, that he would
double his diligence in instructing him, and would neither expect nor receive any other reward,
than the content of so hopeful and happy an employment.

This was not unwelcome news, and especially to his Mother, to whom he was a dutiful and dear
child, and all parties were so pleased with this proposal, that it was resolved so it should
be. And in the mean time his Parents and Master laid a foundation for his future happiness,
by instilling into his soul the seeds of piety, those conscientious principles of loving and
fearing God, of an early belief that he knows the very secrets of our souls; that he punisheth
our vices, and rewards our innocence; that we should be free from hypocrisy, and appear to
man what we are to God, because first or last the crafty man is catched in his own snare. These
seeds of piety were so seasonably planted, and so continually watered with the daily dew of
God's blessed Spirit, that his infant virtues grew into such holy habits, as did make him grow
daily into more and more favour both with God and man; which, with the great learning that
he did after attain to, hath made Richard Hooker honoured in this, and will continue him to
be so to succeeding generations.

[Sidenote: John Hooker]

This good School-master, whose name I am not able to recover,--and am sorry, for that I would
have given him a better memorial in this humble monument, dedicated to the memory of his scholar,--was
very solicitous with John Hooker, then Chamberlain of Exeter, and uncle to our Richard, to
take his Nephew into his care, and to maintain him for one year in the University, and in the
mean time to use his endeavours to procure an admission for him into some College, though it
were but in a mean degree; still urging and assuring him, that his charge would not continue
long; for the lad's learning and manners were both so remarkable, that they must of necessity
be taken notice of; and that doubtless God would provide him some second patron, that would
free him and his Parents from their future care and charge.

[Sidenote: Bishop Jewel]

These reasons, with the affectionate rhetoric of his good Master, and God's blessing upon both,
procured from his Uncle a faithful promise, that he would take him into his care and charge
before the expiration of the year following, which was performed by him, and with the assistance
of the learned Mr. John Jewel;[1] of whom this may be noted, that he left, or was about the
first of Queen Mary's reign expelled out of Corpus Christi College in Oxford,--of which he
was a Fellow,--for adhering to the truth of those principles of Religion to which he had assented
and given testimony in the days of her brother and predecessor, Edward the Sixth; and this
John Jewel, having within a short time after, a just cause to fear a more heavy punishment
than expulsion, was forced, by forsaking this, to seek safety in another nation; and, with
that safety, the enjoyment of that doctrine and worship for which he suffered.

