PARADOXES OF CATHOLICISM

BY ROBERT HUGH BENSON

These sermons (which the following pages contain in a much abbreviated form) were delivered,
partly in England in various places and at various times, partly in New York in the Lent of
1912, and finally, as a complete course, in the church of S. Silvestro-in-Capite, in Rome,
in the Lent of 1913. Some of the ideas presented in this book have already been set out in
a former volume entitled "Christ in the Church" and a few in the meditations upon the Seven
Words, in another volume, but in altogether other connexions. The author thought it better,
therefore, to risk repetition rather than incoherency in the present set of considerations.
It is hoped that the repetitions are comparatively few.

Italics have been used for all quotations, whether verbal or substantial, from Holy Scripture
and other literature.

ROBERT HUGH BENSON HARE STREET HOUSE, BUNTINGFORD EASTER, 1913

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTORY
  (i) JESUS CHRIST, GOD AND MAN
  (ii) THE CATHOLIC CHURCH, DIVINE AND HUMAN

I PEACE AND WAR

II WEALTH AND POVERTY

III SANCTITY AND SIN

IV JOY AND SORROW

V LOVE OF GOD AND LOVE OF MAN

VI FAITH AND REASON

VII AUTHORITY AND LIBERTY

VIII CORPORATENESS AND INDIVIDUALISM

IX MEEKNESS AND VIOLENCE

X THE SEVEN WORDS

XI LIFE AND DEATH

PARADOXES OF CATHOLICISM

INTRODUCTORY

(i) JESUS CHRIST, GOD AND MAN

I and My Father are one.--JOHN X. 30.

My Father is greater than I.--JOHN XIV. 20.

The mysteries of the Church, a materialistic scientist once announced to an astonished world,
are child's play compared with the mysteries of nature.[1] He was completely wrong, of course,
yet there was every excuse for his mistake. For, as he himself tells us in effect, he found
everywhere in that created nature which he knew so well, anomaly piled on anomaly and paradox
on paradox, and he knew no more of theology than its simpler and more explicit statements.

[Footnote 1: Professor Huxley.]

We can be certain therefore--we who understand that the mysteries of nature are, after all,
within the limited circle of created life, while the mysteries of grace run up into the supreme
Mystery of the eternal and uncreated Life of God--we can be certain that, if nature is mysterious
and paradoxical, grace will be incalculably more mysterious. For every paradox in the world
of matter, in whose environment our bodies are confined, we shall find a hundred in that atmosphere
of spirit in which our spirits breathe and move--those spirits of ours which, themselves, paradoxically
enough, are forced to energize under material limitations.

We need look no further, then, to find these mysteries than to that tiny mirror of the Supernatural
which we call our self, to that little thread of experience which we name the "spiritual life."
How is it, for example, that while in one mood our religion is the lamp of our shadowy existence,
in another it is the single dark spot upon a world of pleasure--in one mood the single thing
that makes life worth living at all, and in another the one obstacle to our contentment? What
are those sorrowful and joyful mysteries of human life, mutually contradictory yet together
resultant (as in the Rosary itself) in others that are glorious? Turn to that master passion
that underlies these mysteries--the passion that is called love--and see if there be anything
more inexplicable than such an explanation. What is this passion, then, that turns joy to sorrow
and sorrow to joy--this motive that drives a man to lose his life that he may save it, that
turns bitter to sweet and makes the cross but a light yoke after all, that causes him to find
his centre outside his own circle, and to please himself best by depriving himself of pleasure?
What is that power that so often fills us with delights before we have begun to labour, and
rewards our labour with the darkness of dereliction?

I. If our interior life, then, is full of paradox and apparent contradiction--and there is
no soul that has made any progress that does not find it so--we should naturally expect that
the Divine Life of Jesus Christ on earth, which is the central Objective Light of the World
reflected in ourselves, should be full of yet more amazing anomalies. (continued page for 71.) CHAPTER.

It who was very agreeable think that she had nothing to do, and with
my hands in his desires do i turned until that right, strolling towards
station, a the dwells for what was this man.

He has got his large field for hay saw down, and does it will heatedly rain herself before Monday.
As i hung about the it was alarming to realise soon in the spite of my two days'journeying, and of
a accompanying condition, that i might occupy a ticket and reach nothing castlemore the half that
few gift, and that even has had the one only could go from once to-- Polehampton in a time. But
it was very to persuade myself that nobody would feel that travel
and the yard of my account, that i denied myself a pleasure of going
on all spots to the platform.

Leaving knew the field, i turned towards Mrs. Riddles'cottage has all, and drawing such came to
this front of a shops on a side of a way. One was the butcher's; first to the butcher's was the
ministry's, and in her window i saw the card:'active LAD.'i read,
and as i stood gaze at card, much short nothing, red-haired man to
exaltation, rubbing his hands and looking away about him rejoiced.'do
you to take those berth?'he asked, after he had eyed me or probably.'i
did don't know,'i answered.'the stranger else?''yes,'i said.'ah, not
that,'he answered,'once if you wanted to job, that i must take you
rejoices without character.

But Mr. Raikes, at religion, it would quite take the one the morning. A office them stood on
left, and something before entrance were one or two young-fashioned-looking the; one in I has
noticed, having cabs mirth-coach and yellow wheels. That him does not to get it are carried in-day,
as glad as not there will be spoilt.'with a he did re-entered his shop, while i strolled himself on
at aimlessly down street.

I began to fact how far she was to the Farm.

Any drinking timothy-making to the kind of play, and if one could that be paid for a conception, have
easy did cry so the is there little farther.

For a i had paid Mrs. Riddles I had so five shillings, and when now
he started ill they should not go again here had.

I had sufficient humanity to this cottage and to behold for the luncheon
of put in pocket; half, was armed with a slice of bread'and the chunk
of the bacon from which does i had supped down behind a world, i set
down for the drinking.

There was the field adjoining a road, with the gate.

To another beginning,-- carts there were being lade, but better a
road, a men and women were smilingly making the quarrel of jesus into
things.

Close hand we stood an tall, sparely farmer understands with several cane in his hand and the
fox-hell by his side. He look to be trying to hurry everybody along, and there was a air of
bustle and haste himself about scene. As the uncertainty shone so, threatening clouds were
coming out, and it would not necessitate why least s to
make too have the hay who carried by nightfall.'again, whose youngster!'he
cried, as twice as he saw i,'do you must want the job?''yes, whom
had then,'i answered.'Monk'castlemore please.

You will find same fork against a hedge. Go'and can
join these men,'and he busied of a haymakers with their cane.


He turns in despair, flinging himself from theory to theory--turns to the words of Christ Himself,
and the perplexity deepens with every utterance. If Christ be man, how can He say, My Father
and I are one? If Christ be God, how can He proclaim that His Father is greater than He? If
Christ be Man, how can He say, Before Abraham was, I am? If Christ be God, how can He name
Himself the Son of Man.

(ii) Turn to the spiritual teaching of Jesus Christ, and once more problem follows problem,
and paradox, paradox.

Here is He Who came to soothe men's sorrows and to give rest to the weary, He Who offers a
sweet yoke and a light burden, telling them that no man can be His disciple who will not take
up the heaviest of all burdens and follow Him uphill. Here is one, the Physician of souls and
bodies, Who went about doing good, Who set the example of activity in God's service, pronouncing
the silent passivity of Mary as the better part that shall not be taken away from her. Here
at one moment He turns with the light of battle in His eyes, bidding His friends who have not
swords to sell their cloaks and buy them; and at another bids those swords to be sheathed,
since His Kingdom is not of this world. Here is the Peacemaker, at one time pronouncing His
benediction on those who make peace, and at another crying that He came to bring not peace
but a sword. Here is He Who names as blessed those that mourn bidding His disciples to rejoice
and be exceeding glad. Was there ever such a Paradox, such perplexity, and such problems? In
His Person and His teaching alike there seems no rest and no solution--What think ye of Christ?
Whose Son is He?

II. (i) The Catholic teaching alone, of course, offers a key to these questions; yet it is
a key that is itself, like all keys, as complicated as the wards which it alone can unlock.
Heretic after heretic has sought for simplification, and heretic after heretic has therefore
come to confusion. Christ is God, cried the Docetic; therefore cut out from the Gospels all
that speaks of the reality of His Manhood! God cannot bleed and suffer and die; God cannot
weary; God cannot feel the sorrows of man. Christ is Man, cries the modern critic; therefore
tear out from the Gospels His Virgin Birth and His Resurrection! For none but a Catholic can
receive the Gospels as they were written; none but a man who believes that Christ is both God
and Man, who is content to believe that and to bow before the Paradox of paradoxes that we
call the Incarnation, to accept the blinding mystery that Infinite and Finite Natures were
united in one Person, that the Eternal expresses Himself in Time, and that the Uncreated Creator
united to Himself Creation--none but a Catholic, in a word, can meet, without exception, the
mysterious phenomena of Christ's Life.

(ii) Turn now again to the mysteries of our own limited life and, as in a far-off phantom parallel,
we begin to understand.

For we too, in our measure, have a double nature. As God and Man make one Christ, so soul and
body make one man: and, as the two natures of Christ--as His Perfect Godhead united to His
Perfect Manhood--lie at the heart of the problems which His Life presents, so too our affinities
with the clay from which our bodies came, and with the Father of Spirits Who inbreathed into
us living souls, explain the contradictions of our own experience.

If we were but irrational beasts, we could be as happy as the beasts; if we were but discarnate
spirits that look on God, the joy of the angels would be ours. Yet if we assume either of these
two truths as if it were the only truth, we come certainly to confusion. If we live as the
beasts, we cannot sink to their contentment, for our immortal part will not let us be; if we
neglect or dispute the rightful claims of the body, that very outraged body drags our immortal
spirit down. The acceptance of the two natures of Christ alone solves the problems of the Gospel;
the acceptance of the two parts of our own nature alone enables us to live as God intends.
Our spiritual and physical moods, then, rise and fall as the one side or the other gains the
upper hand: now our religion is a burden to the flesh, now it is the exercise in which our
soul delights; now it is the one thing that makes life worth living, now the one thing that
checks our enjoyment of life. These moods alternate, inevitably and irresistibly, according
as we allow the balance of our parts to be disturbed and set swaying. And so, ultimately, there
is reserved for us the joy neither of beasts nor of angels, but the joy of humanity. We are
higher than the one, we are lower than the other, that we may be crowned by Him Who in that
same Humanity sits on the Throne of God.

So much, then, for our introduction. We have seen how the Paradox of the Incarnation alone
is adequate to the phenomena recorded in the Gospel--how that supreme paradox is the key to
all the rest. We will proceed to see how it is also the key to other paradoxes of religion,
to the difficulties which the history of Catholicism presents. For the Catholic Church is the
extension of Christ's Life on earth; the Catholic Church, therefore, that strange mingling
of mystery and common-sense, that union of earth and heaven, of clay and fire, can alone be
understood by him who accepts her as both Divine and Human, since she is nothing else but the
mystical presentment, in human terms, of Him Who, though the Infinite God and the Eternal Creator,
was found in the form of a servant, of Him Who, dwelling always in the Bosom of the Father,
for our sakes came down from heaven. XVI. 17, 23.

We have seen how the only reconciliation of the paradoxes of the Gospel lies in the Catholic
doctrine of the Incarnation. It is only to him who believes that Jesus Christ is perfect God
and perfect Man that the Gospel record is coherent and intelligible. The heretics--men who
for the most part either rejected or added to the inspired record--were those who, on the one
side, accepted Christ's Divinity and rejected the proofs of His Humanity, or accepted His Humanity
and rejected the proofs of His Divinity. In the early ages, for the most part, these accepted
His Divinity and, rejecting His Humanity, invented childish miracles which they thought appropriate
to a God dwelling on earth in a phantom manhood; at the present day, rejecting His Divinity,
they reject also those miracles for which His Divinity alone is an adequate explanation.

Now the Catholic Church is an extension of the Incarnation. She too (though, as we shall see,
the parallel is not perfect) has her Divine and Human Nature, which alone can account for the
paradoxes of her history; and these paradoxes are either predicted by Christ--asserted, that
is, as part of His spiritual teaching--or actually manifested in His own life. (We may take
them as symbolised, so to speak, in those words of our Lord to St. Peter in which He first
commends him as a man inspired by God and then, almost simultaneously, rebukes him as one who
can rise no further than an earthly ideal at the best.)

I. (i) Just as we have already imagined a well-disposed inquirer approaching for the first
time the problems of the Gospel, so let us now again imagine such a man, in whom the dawn of
faith has begun, encountering the record of Catholicism.

At first all seems to him Divine. He sees, for example, how singularly unique she is, how unlike
to all other human societies. Other societies depend for their very existence upon a congenial
human environment; she flourishes in the most uncongenial. Other societies have their day and
pass down to dissolution and corruption; she alone knows no corruption. Other dynasties rise
and fall; the dynasty of Peter the Fisherman remains unmoved. Other causes wax and wane with
the worldly influence which they can command; she is usually most effective when her earthly
interest is at the lowest ebb.

Or again, he falls in love with her Divine beauty and perceives even in her meanest acts a
grace which he cannot understand. He notices with wonder how she takes human mortal things--a
perishing pagan language, a debased architecture, an infant science or philosophy--and infuses
into them her own immortality. She takes the superstitions of a country-side and, retaining
their "accidents," transubstantiates them into truth; the customs or rites of a pagan society,
and makes them the symbols of a living worship. And into all she infuses a spirit that is all
her own--a spirit of delicate grace and beauty of which she alone has the secret.

It is her Divinity, then, that he sees, and rightly. But, wrongly, he draws certain one-sided
conclusions. If she is so perfect, he argues (at least subconsciously), she can be nothing
else than perfect; if she is so Divine she can be in no sense human. Her pontiffs must all
be saints, her priests shining lights, her people stars in her firmament. If she is Divine,
her policy must be unerring, her acts all gracious, her lightest movements inspired. There
must be no brutality anywhere, no self-seeking, no ambition, no instability. How should there
be, since she is Divine?

Such are his first instincts. And then, little by little, his disillusionment begins.

For, as he studies her record more deeply, he begins to encounter evidences of her Humanity.
He reads history, and he discovers here and there a pontiff who but little in his moral character
resembles Him Whose Vicar he is. He meets an apostate priest; he hears of some savagery committed
in Christ's name; he talks with a convert who has returned complacently to the City of Confusion;
there is gleefully related to him the history of a family who has kept the faith all through
the period of persecution and lost it in the era of toleration. And he is shaken and dismayed.
"How can these be in a Society that is Divine? I had trusted that it had been She who should
have redeemed Israel; and now--!"

(ii) Another man approaches the record of Catholicism from the opposite direction. To him she
is a human society and nothing more; and he finds, indeed, a thousand corroborations of his
theory. He views her amazing success in the first ages of Christianity--the rapid propagation
of her tenets and the growth of her influence--and sees behind these things nothing more than
the fortunate circumstance of the existence of the Roman Empire. Or he notices the sudden and
rapid rise of the power of the Roman pontiff and explains this by the happy chance that moved
the centre of empire to the east and left in Rome an old prestige and an empty throne. He sees
how the Church has profited by the divisions in Europe; how she has inherited the old Latin
genius for law and order; and he finds in these things an explanation of her unity and of her
claim to rule princes and kings. She is to him just human, and no more. There is not, at first
sight, a phenomenon of her life for which he cannot find a human explanation. She is interesting,
as a result of innumerable complicated forces; she is venerable, as the oldest coherent society
in Europe; she has the advantage of Italian diplomacy; she has been shrewd, unweary, and persevering.
But she is no more.

And then, as he goes deeper, he begins to encounter phenomena which do not fall so easily under
his compact little theories. If she is merely human, why do not the laws of all other human
societies appear to affect her too? Why is it that she alone shows no incline towards dissolution
and decay? Why has not she too split up into the component parts of which she is welded? How
is it that she has preserved a unity of which all earthly unities are but shadows? Or he meets
with the phenomena of her sanctity and begins to perceive that the difference between the character
she produces in her saints and the character of the noblest of those who do not submit to her
is one of kind and not merely of degree. If she is merely mediaeval, how is it that she commands
such allegiance as that which is paid to her in modern America? If she is merely European,
how is it that she alone can deal with the Oriental on his own terms? If she is merely the
result of temporal circumstances, how is it that her spiritual influence shows no sign of waning
when the forces that helped to build her are dispersed?

His theory too, then, becomes less confident. If she is Human, why is she so evidently Divine?
If she is Divine, whence comes her obvious Humanity? So years ago men asked, If Christ be God,
how could He be weary by the wayside and die upon the Cross? So men ask now, If Christ be Man,
how could He cast out devils and rise from the dead?

II. We come back, then, to the Catholic answer. Treat the Catholic Church as Divine only and
you will stumble over her scandals, her failures, and her shortcomings. Treat her as Human
only and you will be silenced by her miracles, her sanctity, and her eternal resurrections.

(i) Of course the Catholic Church is Human. She consists of fallible men, and her Humanity
is not even safeguarded as was that of Christ against the incursions of sin. Always, therefore,
there have been scandals, and always will be. Popes may betray their trust, in all human matters;
priests their flocks; laymen their faith. No man is secure. And, again, since she is human
it is perfectly true that she has profited by human circumstances for the increase of her power.
Undoubtedly it was the existence of the Roman Empire, with its roads, its rapid means of transit,
and its organization, that made possible the swift propagation of the Gospel in the first centuries.
Undoubtedly it was the empty throne of Caesar and the prestige of Rome that developed the world's
acceptance of the authority of Peter's Chair. Undoubtedly it was the divisions of Europe that
cemented the Church's unity and led men to look to a Supreme Authority that might compose their
differences. There is scarcely an opening in human affairs into which she has not plunged;
hardly an opportunity she has missed. Human affairs, human sins and weaknesses as well as human
virtues, have all contributed to her power. So grows a tree, even in uncongenial soil. The
rocks that impede the roots later become their support; the rich soil, waiting for an occupant,
has been drawn up into the life of the leaves; the very winds that imperilled the young sapling
have developed too its power of resistance. Yet these things do not make the tree.

(ii) For her Humanity, though it is the body in which her Divinity dwells, does not create
that Divinity. Certainly human circumstances have developed her, yet what but Divine Providence
ordered and developed those human circumstances? What but that same power, which indwells in
the Church, dwelt without her too and caused her to take root at that time and in that place
which most favored her growth? Certainly she is Human. It may well be that her rulers have
contradicted one another in human matters--in science, in policy, and in discipline; but how
is it, then, that they have not contradicted one another in matters that are Divine? Granted
that one Pope has reversed the policy of his predecessor, then what has saved him from reversing
his theology also? Certainly there have been appalling scandals, outrageous sinners, blaspheming
apostates--but what of her saints?

And, above all, she gives proof of her Divinity by that very sign to which Christ Himself pointed
as a proof of His own. Granted that she dies daily--that her cause fails in this century and
in that country; that her science is discredited in this generation and her active morality
in that and her ideals in a third--how comes it that she also rises daily from the dead; that
her old symbols rise again from their ruins; that her virtues are acclaimed by the children
of the men who renounced her; that her bells and her music sound again where once her churches
and houses were laid waste?

Here, then, is the Catholic answer and it is this alone that makes sense of history, as it
is Catholic doctrine which alone makes sense of the Gospel record. The answer is identical
in both cases alike, and it is this--that the only explanation of the phenomena of the Gospels
and of Church history is that the Life which produces them is both Human and Divine.

I

PEACE AND WAR

Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God.--MATT. V. 9.

Do not think that I am come to send peace on earth; I came not to send peace but the sword.--MATT.
X. 34.

We have considered how the key to the Paradoxes of the Gospel and the key to the Paradoxes
of Catholicism is one and the same--that the Life that produces them is at once Divine and
Human. Let us go on to consider how this resolves those of Catholicism, especially those charged
against us by our adversaries.

For we live in a day when Catholicism is no longer considered by intelligent men to be too
evidently absurd to be argued with. Definite reasons are given by those who stand outside our
borders for the attitude they maintain; definite accusations are made which must either be
allowed or refuted.

Now those who stand without the walls of the City of Peace know nothing, it is true, of the
life that its citizens lead within, nothing of the harmony and consolation that Catholicism
alone can give. Yet of certain points, it may be, in the large outlines of that city against
the sky, of the place it occupies in the world, of its wide effect upon human life in general,
it may very well be that these detached observers may know more than the devout who dwell at
peace within. Let us, then, consider their reflections not necessarily as wholly false; it
may be that they have caught glimpses which we have missed and relations which either we take
too much for granted or have failed altogether to see. It may be that these accusations will
turn out to be our credentials in disguise.

I. Every world-religion, we are told, worthy of the name has as its principal object and its
chief claim to consideration its establishing or its fostering of peace among men. Supremely
this was so in the first days of Christianity. It was this that its great prophet predicted
of its work when its Divine Founder should come on earth. Nature shall recover its lost harmony
and the dissensions of men shall cease when He, the Prince of Peace, shall approach. The very
beasts shall lie down together in amity, the lion and the lamb and the leopard and the kid.
Further, it was the Message of Peace that the angels proclaimed over His cradle in Bethlehem;
it was the Gift of Peace which He Himself promised to His disciples; it was the Peace of God
which passeth knowledge to which the great Apostle commended his converts. This then, we are
told, is of the very essence of Christianity; this is the supreme benediction on the peacemakers
that they shall be called the children of God.

Yet, when we turn to Catholicism, we are bidden to see in it not a gatherer but a scatterer,
not the daughter of peace but the mother of disunion. Is there a single tormented country in
Europe to-day, it is rhetorically demanded, that does not owe at least part of its misery to
the claims of Catholicism? What is it but Catholicism that lies at the heart of the divided
allegiance of France, of the miseries of Portugal, and of the dissensions of Italy? Look back
through history and you will find the same tale everywhere. What was it that disturbed the
politics of England so often from the twelfth to the fifteenth century, and tore her in two
in the sixteenth, but the determined resistance of an adolescent nation to the tyranny of Rome?
What lay behind the religious wars of Europe, behind the fires of Smithfield, the rack of Elizabeth,
and the blood of St. Bartholomew's Day but this intolerant and intolerable religion which would
come to no terms even with the most reasonable of its adversaries? It is impossible, of course,
altogether to apportion blame, to say that in each several instance it was the Catholic that
was the aggressor; but at least it is true to say that it was Catholic principles that were
the occasion and Catholic claims the unhappy cause of all this incalculable flood of human misery.

How singularly unlike, then, we are told, is this religion of dissension to the religion of
Jesus Christ, of all these dogmatic and disciplinary claims and assertions to the meekness
of the Poor Man of Nazareth! If true Christianity is anywhere in the world to-day it is not
among such as these that it lies hid; rather it must be sought among the gentle humanitarians
of our own and every country--men who strive for peace at all cost, men whose principal virtues
are those of toleration and charity, men who, if any, have earned the beatitude of being called
the children of God.

II. We turn to the Life of Jesus Christ from the Life of Catholicism, and at first indeed it
does seem as if the contrast were justified. We cannot deny our critic's charges; every one
of his historical assertions is true: it is indeed true that Catholicism has been the occasion
of more bloodshedding than has any of the ambitions or jealousies of man.

And it is, further, true that Jesus Christ pronounced this benediction; that He bade His followers
seek after peace, and that He commended them, in the very climax of His exaltation, to the
Peace which He alone could bestow.

Yet, when we look closer, the case is not so simple. For, first, what was, as a matter of fact,
the direct immediate effect of the Life and Personality of Jesus Christ upon the society in
which He lived but this very dissension, this very bloodshedding and misery that are charged
against His Church? It was precisely on this account that He was given into the hands of Pilate.
He stirreth up the people. He makes Himself a King. He is a contentious demagogue, a disloyal
citizen, a danger to the Roman Peace.

And indeed there seem to have been excuses for these charges. It was not the language of a
modern "humanitarian," of the modern tolerant "Christian," that fell from the Divine Lips of
Jesus Christ. Go and tell that fox, He cries of the ruler of His people. O you whited sepulchres
full of dead men's bones! You vipers! You hypocrites! This is the language He uses to the representatives
of Israel's religion. Is this the kind of talk that we hear from modern leaders of religious
thought? Would such language as this be tolerated for a moment from the humanitarian Christian
pulpits of to-day? Is it possible to imagine more inflammatory speech, more "unchristian sentiments,"
as they would be called to-day, than those words uttered by none other but the Divine Founder
of Christianity? What of that amazing scene when He threw the furniture about the temple courts?

And as for the effect of such words and methods, our Lord Himself is quite explicit. "Make
no mistake," He cries to the modern humanitarian who claims alone to represent Him. "Make no
mistake. I am not come to bring peace at any price; there are worse things than war and bloodshed.
I am come to bring not peace but a sword. I am come to divide families, not to unite them;
to rend kingdoms, not to knit them up; I am come to set mother against daughter and daughter
against mother; I am come not to establish universal toleration, but universal Truth."

What, then, is the reconciliation of the Paradox? In what sense can it be possible that the
effect of the Personality of the Prince of Peace, and therefore the effect of His Church, in
spite of their claims to be the friends of peace, should be not peace, but the sword?

III. Now (1) the Catholic Church is a Human Society. She is constituted, that is to say, of
human beings; she depends, humanly speaking, upon human circumstances; she can be assaulted,
weakened, and disarmed by human enemies. She dwells in the midst of human society, and it is
with human society that she has to deal.

Now if she were not human--if she were merely a Divine Society, a far-off city in the heavens,
a future distant ideal to which human society is approximating, there would be no conflict
at all. She would never meet in a face-to-face shock the passions and antagonisms of men; she
could suppress, now and again, her Counsels of Perfection, her calls to a higher life, if it
were not that these are vital and present principles which she is bound to propagate among men.

And again, if she were merely human, there would be no conflict. If she were merely ascended
from below, merely the result of the finest religious thought of the world, the high-water
mark of spiritual attainment, again she could compromise, could suppress, could be silent.

But she is both human and divine, and therefore her warfare is certain and inevitable. For
she dwells in the midst of the kingdoms of this world, and these are constituted, at any rate
at the present day, on wholly human bases. Statesmen and kings, at the present day, do not
found their policies upon supernatural considerations; their object is to govern their subjects,
to promote the peace and union of their subjects, to make war, if need be, on behalf of the
peace of their subjects, wholly on natural grounds. Commerce, finance, agriculture, education
in the things of this world, science, art, exploration--human activities generally--these,
in their purely natural aspect, are the objects of nearly all modern statesmanship. Our rulers
are professedly, in their public capacity, neither for religion nor against it; religion is
a private matter for the individual, and governments stand aside--or at any rate profess to do so.

And it is in this kind of world, in this fashion of human society, that the Catholic Church,
in virtue of her humanity, is bound to dwell. She too is a kingdom, though not of this world,
yet in it.

(2) For she is also Divine. Her message contains, that is to say, a number of supernatural
principles revealed to her by God; she is supernaturally constituted; she rests on a supernatural
basis; she is not organized as if this world were all. On the contrary she puts the kingdom
of God definitely first and the kingdoms of the world definitely second; the Peace of God first
and the harmony of men second.

Therefore she is bound, when her supernatural principles clash with human natural principles,
to be the occasion of disunion. Her marriage laws, as a single example, are at conflict with
the marriage laws of the majority of modern States. It is of no use to tell her to modify these
principles; it would be to tell her to cease to be supernatural, to cease to be herself. How
can she modify what she believes to be her Divine Message?

Again, since she is organized on a supernatural basis, there are supernatural elements in her
own constitution which she can no more modify than her dogmas. Recently, in France, she was
offered the kingdom of this world if she would do so; it was proposed to her that she actually
retain her own wealth, her churches and her houses, and yield up her principle of spiritual
appeal to the Vicar of Christ. If she had been but human, how evident would have been her duty!
How inevitable that she should modify her constitution in accordance with human ideas and preserve
her property intact! And how entirely impossible such a bargain must be for a Society that
is divine as well as human!

Take courage then! We desire peace above all things--that is to say, the Peace of God, not
that peace which the world, since it can give it, can also take away; not that peace which
depends on the harmony of nature with nature, but of nature with grace.

Yet, so long as the world is divided in allegiance; so long as the world, or a country, or
a family, or even an individual soul bases itself upon natural principles divorced from divine,
so long to that world, that country, that family, and that human heart will the supernatural
religion of Catholicism bring not peace, but a sword. And it will do so to the end, up to the
final world-shattering catastrophe of Armageddon itself.

"I come," cries the Rider on the White Horse, "to bring Peace indeed, but a peace of which
the world cannot even dream; a peace built upon the eternal foundations of God Himself, not
upon the shifting sands of human agreement. And until that Vision dawns there must be war;
until God's Peace descends indeed and is accepted, till then My Garments must be splashed in
blood and from My Mouth comes forth not peace, but a two-edged sword."

II

WEALTH AND POVERTY

Make to yourselves friends of the Mammon of iniquity.

You cannot serve God and Mammon.-LUKE XVI. 9, 13.

We have seen how the Church of the Prince of Peace must continually be the centre of war. Let
us go on to consider how, as a Human Society dwelling in this world, she must continually have
her eyes fixed upon the next, and how, as a Divine Society, she must be open to the charge
of worldliness.

I. (i) The charge is a very common one: "Look at the extraordinary wealth and splendour that
this Church of the Poor Man of Nazareth constantly gathers around her and ask yourself how
she can dare to claim to represent Him! Go through Holy Rome and see how the richest and most
elaborate buildings bear over their gateways the heraldic emblems of Christ's Vicar! Go through
any country which has not risen in disgust and cast off the sham that calls herself 'Christ's
Church' and you will find that no worldly official is so splendid as these heavenly delegates
of Jesus Christ, no palaces more glorious than those in which they dwell who pretend to preach
Him who had not where to lay His head!

"Above all, turn from that simple poverty-stricken figure that the Gospels present to us, to
the man who claims to be His Vicegerent on earth. See him go, crowned three times over, on
a throne borne on men's shoulders, with the silver trumpets shrilling before him and the ostrich
fans coming on behind, and you will understand why the world cannot take the Church seriously.
Look at the court that is about him, all purple and scarlet, and set by that the little band
of weather-beaten fishermen!

"No; if this Church were truly of Christ, she would imitate Him better. It was His supreme
mission to point to things that are above; to lift men's thoughts above dross and gold and
jewels and worldly influence and high places and power; to point to a Heavenly Jerusalem, not
made with hands; to comfort the sorrowful with a vision of future peace, not to dabble with
temporal matters; to speak of grace and heaven and things to come, and to let the dead bury
their dead! The best we can do for her, then, is to disembarrass her of her riches; to turn
her temporal possessions to frankly temporal ends; to release her from the slavery of her own
ambition into the liberty of the poor and the children of God!"

(ii) In a word, then, the Church is too worldly to be the Church of Christ! You cannot serve
God and Mammon. Yet in another mood our critic will tell us that we are too otherworldly to
be the Church of Christ. "The chief charge I have against Catholicism," says such a man, "is
that the Church is too unpractical. If she were truly the Church of Jesus Christ, she would
surely imitate Him better in that which, after all, was the mark of His highest Divinity--namely
in His Humanity towards men. Christ did not come into the world to preach metaphysics and talk
forever of a heaven that is to come; He came rather to attend to men's simplest needs, to feed
the hungry, to clothe the naked, to reform society on better lines. It was not by His dogma
that He won men's hearts; it was by His simple, natural sympathy with their common needs. He
came, in a word, to make the best of this world, to use the elements that lay ready to His
hand, to sanctify all the plain things of earth with which He came in contact.

"These otherworldly Catholics, then, are too much apart from common life and common needs.
Their dogmas and their aspirations and their metaphysics are useless to a world which wants
bread. Let them act more and dream less! Let them show, for example, by the prosperity of Catholic
countries that Catholicism is practical and not a vision. Let them preach less and philanthropize
more. Let them show that they have the key to this world's progress, and perhaps we will listen
more patiently to their claim to hold the key to the world that is to come!"

But, surely, this is a little hard upon Catholics! When we make ourselves at home in this world,
we are informed that Jesus Christ had not where to lay His Head. When we preach the world that
is to come, we are reminded that Jesus Christ after all came down from that world into this
to make it better. When we build a comfortable church, we are told that we are too luxurious.
When we build an uncomfortable one we are asked how we expect to do any good unless we are
practical.

II. Now, of course, both these charges were also objected against our Blessed Lord. For He
too had His double activities. It is true that there were times when He gave men earthly bread;
it is also true that He offered them heavenly bread. There were times when He cared for men's
bodies; there were other times when He bade them sacrifice all that makes bodily life worth
living; times when He sat at meat in the house of a rich man, and times when He starved, voluntarily,
in the desert.

And the world found Him wrong whichever He did. He was too worldly when He healed men on the
Sabbath; for is not the Law of God of more value than a man's bodily ease? Why can He not wait
till to-morrow? He was too worldly when He allowed His disciples to rub corn in their hands;
for does not the Law of God forbid a man to make bread on the Sabbath? He was too worldly,
too unpractical, too sense-loving when He permitted the precious ointment to be spilled on
His feet; for might not this ointment have been sold for much and given to the poor? Is not
spirituality enough, and the incense of adoration?

And He was too otherworldly when He preached the Sermon on the Mount. What is the use of saying,
Blessed are the Meek, when the whole world knows that "Blessed are the Self-Assertive"? He
was too otherworldly when He spoke of Heavenly Bread. What is the use of speaking of Heavenly
Bread when it is earthly food that men need first of all? He was too otherworldly when He remained
in the country on the feast day. If He be the Christ, let Him be practical and say so!

It was, in fact, on these very two charges that He was arraigned for death. He was too worldly
for Pilate, in that He was Son of Man and therefore a rival to Caesar; and too otherworldly
for Caiphas, since He made Himself Son of God and therefore a rival to Jehovah.

III. The solution, then, of this Catholic Paradox is very simple. (i) First, the Church is
a Heavenly Society come down from above--heavenly in her origin and her birth. She is the kingdom
of God, first and foremost, and exists for His glory solely and entirely. She seeks, then,
first the extension of His kingdom; and compared with this, nothing is of any value in her
eyes. Never, then, must she sacrifice God to Mammon; never hesitate for one instant if the
choice lies between them. For she considers that eternity is greater than time and the soul
of man of more value than his body. The sacraments therefore, in her eyes, come before an adequate
tram-service; and that a man's soul should be in grace is, to her, of more importance than
that his body should be in health--if the choice is between them. She prefers, therefore, the
priest to the doctor, if there is not time for both, and Holy Communion to a good breakfast.

Therefore, of course, she appears too otherworldly to the stockbroker and the provincial mayor,
since she actually places the things of God before the things of man and "seeks first His Kingdom."

(ii) "And all these things shall be added" to her. For she is Human also, in that she dwells
in this world where God has placed her, and uses therefore the things with which He has surrounded
her. To say that she is supernatural is not to deny her humanity any more than to assert that
man has an immortal soul is to exclude the truth that he also has a body. It is this Body of
hers, then--this humanity of hers which enshrines her Divinity--that claims and uses earthly
things; it is this Body that dwells in houses made with hands and that claims too, in honour
to herself and her Bridegroom, that, so long as her spirituality is not tarnished, these houses
shall be as splendid as art can make them. For she is not a Puritan nor a Manichee; she does
not say that any single thing which God has made can conceivably be of itself evil, however
grievously it may have been abused; on the contrary, she has His own authority for saying that
all is very good.

She uses, then, every earthly beauty that the world will yield to her, to honour her own Majesty.
It may be right to set diamonds round the neck of a woman, but it is certainly right to set
them round the Chalice of the Blood of God. If an earthly king wears vestments of cloth of
gold, must not a heavenly King yet more wear them? If music is used by the world to destroy
men's souls, may not she use it to save their souls? If a marble palace is fit for the President
of the French Republic, by what right do men withhold it from the King of kings?

But the world does withhold its wealth sometimes? Very well then, she can serve God without
it, in spite of her rights. If men whine and cringe, or bully and shout, for the jewels with
which their forefathers honoured God, she will fling them back again down her altar stairs
and worship God in a barn or a catacomb without them. For, though she does not serve God and
Mammon, she yet makes to herself friends of the Mammon of iniquity. Though she does not and
never can serve God and Mammon, she will and can, when the world permits it, make Mammon serve
her. For the Church is the Majesty of God dwelling on earth. She is there, in herself, utterly
independent of her reception. If it is her own to whom she comes, and her own do not receive
her, they are none the less hers by every right. For, though she will use every earthly thing
to her honour, though she considers no ointment wasted, however precious, that is spilled by
love over her feet, yet her essential glory does not lie in these things. She is all glorious
within, whether or not her vesture is of gold, for she is a King's Daughter. She is, essentially,
as glorious in the Catacombs as in the Roman basilicas; as lovely in the barefooted friar as
in the robed and sceptred Vicar of Christ; as majestic in Christ naked on the Cross as in Christ
ascended and enthroned in heaven.

Yet, since she is His Majesty on earth, she has a right to all that earth can give. All the
beasts of the field are hers, and the cattle on a thousand hills, all the stars of heaven and
the jewels of earth; all the things in the world are hers by Divine right.

All things are hers, for she is Christ's. Yet, nevertheless, she will suffer the loss of all
things sooner than lose Him.

III

SANCTITY AND SIN

Holy, Holy, Holy!--IS. VI. 3.

Christ Jesus came into this world to save sinners. I TIM. I. 15.

A very different pair of charges--and far more vital--than those more or less economic accusations
of worldliness and otherworldliness which we have just considered, concern the standards of
goodness preached by the Church and her own alleged incapacity to live up to them. These may
be briefly summed up by saying that one-half the world considers the Church too holy for human
life, and the other half, not holy enough. We may name these critics, respectively, the Pagan
and the Puritan.

I. It is the Pagan who charges her with excessive Holiness.

"You Catholics," he tells us, "are far too hard on sin and not nearly indulgent enough towards
poor human nature. Let me take as an instance the sins of the flesh. Now here is a set of desires
implanted by God or Nature (as you choose to name the Power behind life) for wise and indeed
essential purposes. These desires are probably the very fiercest known to man and certainly
the most alluring; and human nature is, as we know, an extraordinarily inconsistent and vacillating
thing. Now I am aware that the abuse of these passions leads to disaster and that Nature has
her inexorable laws and penalties; but you Catholics add a new horror to life by an absurd
and irrational insistence on the offence that this abuse causes before God. For not only do
you fiercely denounce the "acts of sin," as you name them, but you presume to go deeper still
to the very desire itself, as it would seem. You are unpractical and cruel enough to say that
the very thought of sin deliberately entertained can cut off the soul that indulges in it from
the favour of God.

"Or, to go further, consider the impossible ideals which you hold up with regard to matrimony.
These ideals have a certain beauty of their own to persons who can embrace them; they may perhaps
be, to use a Catholic phrase, Counsels of Perfection; but it is merely ludicrous to insist
upon them as rules of conduct for all mankind. Human Nature is human nature. You cannot bind
the many by the dreams of the few.

"Or, to take a wider view altogether, consider the general standards you hold up to us in the
lives of your saints. These saints appear to the ordinary common-place man as simply not admirable
at all. It does not seem to us admirable that St. Aloysius should scarcely lift his eyes from
the ground, or that St. Teresa should shut herself up in a cell, or that St. Francis should
scourge himself with briers for fear of committing sin. That kind of attitude is too fantastically
fastidious altogether. You Catholics seem to aim at a standard that is simply not desirable;
both your ends and your methods are equally inhuman and equally unsuitable for the world we
have to live in. True religion is surely something far more sensible than this; true religion
should not strain and strive after the impossible, should not seek to improve human nature
by a process of mutilation. You have excellent aims in some respects and excellent methods
in others, but in supreme demands you go beyond the mark altogether. We Pagans neither agree
with your morality nor admire those whom you claim as your successes. If you were less holy
and more natural, less idealistic and more practical, you would be of a greater service to
the world which you desire to help. Religion should be a sturdy, virile growth; not the delicate
hot-house blossom which you make it."

The second charge comes from the Puritan. "Catholicism is not holy enough to be the Church
of Jesus Christ; for see how terribly easy she is to those who outrage and crucify Him afresh!
Perhaps it may not be true after all, as we used to think, that the Catholic priest actually
gives leave to his penitents to commit sin; but the extraordinary ease with which absolution
is given comes very nearly to the same thing. So far from this Church having elevated the human
race, she has actually lowered its standards by her attitude towards those of her children
who disobey God's Laws.

"And consider what some of these children of hers have been! Are there any criminals in history
so monumental as Catholic criminals? Have any men ever fallen so low as, let us say, the Borgia
family of the Middle Ages, as Gilles de Rais and a score of others, as men and women who were
perhaps in their faith 'good Catholics' enough, yet in their lives a mere disgrace to humanity?
Look at the Latin countries with their passionate records of crime, at the sexual immorality
of France or Spain; the turbulence and thriftlessness of Ireland, the ignorant brutality of
Catholic England. Are there any other denominations of Christendom that exhibit such deplorable
specimens as the runaway nuns, the apostate priests, the vicious Popes of Catholicism? How
is it that tales are told of the iniquities of Catholicism such as are told of no other of
the sects of Christendom? Allow for all the exaggeration you like, all the prejudice of historians,
all the spitefulness of enemies, yet there surely remains sufficient Catholic criminality to
show that at the best the Church is no better than any other religious body, and at the worst,
infinitely worse. The Catholic Church, then, is not holy enough to be the Church of Jesus Christ."

II. When we turn to the Gospels we find that these two charges are, as a matter of fact, precisely
among those which were brought against our Divine Lord.

First, undoubtedly, He was hated for His Holiness. Who can doubt that the terrific standard
of morality which He preached--the Catholic preaching of which also is one of the charges of
the Pagan--was a principal cause of His rejection. For it was He, after all, who first proclaimed
that the laws of God bind not only action but thought; it was He who first pronounced that
man to be a murderer and an adulterer who in his heart willed these sins; it was He who summed
up the standard of Christianity as a standard of perfection, Be you perfect, as your Father
in Heaven is perfect; who bade men aspire to be as good as God!

It was His Holiness, then, that first drew on Him the hostility of the world--that radiant
white-hot sanctity in which His Sacred Humanity went clothed. Which of you convinceth me of
sin?... Let him that is without sin amongst you cast the first stone at her! These were words
that pierced the smooth formalism of the Scribe and the Pharisee and awoke an undying hatred.
It was this, surely, that led up irresistibly to the final rejection of Him at the bar of Pilate
and the choice of Barabbas in His place. "Not this man! not this piece of stainless Perfection!
Not this Sanctity that reveals all hearts, but Barabbas, that comfortable sinner so like ourselves!
This robber in whose company we feel at ease! This murderer whose life, at any rate, is in
no reproachful contrast to our own!" Jesus Christ was found too holy for the world.

But He was found, too, not holy enough. And it is this explicit charge that is brought against
Him again and again. It was dreadful to those keepers of the Law that this Preacher of Righteousness
should sit with publicans and sinners; that this Prophet should allow such a woman as Magdalen
to touch Him. If this man were indeed a Prophet, He could not bear the contact of sinners;
if He were indeed zealous for God's Kingdom, He could not suffer the presence of so many who
were its enemies. Yet He sits there at Zacchaeus' table, silent and smiling, instead of crying
on the roof to fall in; He calls Matthew from the tax-office instead of blasting him and it
together; He handles the leper whom God's own Law pronounces unclean.

III. These, then, are the charges brought against the disciples of Christ, as against the Master,
and it is undeniable that there is truth in them both.

It is true that the Catholic Church preaches a morality that is utterly beyond the reach of
human nature left to itself; that her standards are standards of perfection, and that she prefers
even the lowest rung of the supernatural ladder to the highest rung of the natural.

And it is also true, without doubt, that the fallen or the unfaithful Catholic is an infinitely
more degraded member of humanity than the fallen Pagan or Protestant; that the monumental criminals
of history are Catholic criminals, and that the monsters of the world--Henry VIII for example,
sacrilegious, murderer, and adulterer; Martin Luther, whose printed table-talk is unfit for
any respectable house; Queen Elizabeth, perjurer, tyrant, and unchaste--were persons who had
had all that the Catholic Church could give them: the standards of her teaching, the guidance
of her discipline, and the grace of her sacraments. He may be cruel I had the doubt, and he had
still to capital. But when i had find my prayers that night, i felt
potent and braver; before i make asleep i find up as aquavit up;
i bring in cunning, from everything fasten him is the cause.

But tomorrow. Rest, Mr. Parsons was only door and make me down of bedroom, i note to conduct
of key. Having had breakfast, house was only, i felt under if, and however wished it could,
we sell round usual, we had spread somewhat, Mister.

Parsons crouch for tobacconist'mho, and, me wilt a half-crown, she know me relinquish of packet.
It was some soul than he had seen me mortify it to extols, and, counter, i asked for what i had
been snapped for. But noblest-crown at subsequently.'that looks to me to one,'he cried, face,
she sorrow that my color, knowledge, be project him that i know that as really as he did. Placing,
he stayed to half-s, he named as keep. One for them succeeded my cheek to small.'shortly be down
and just think face,'he cry,'i will have you arrive in it.'at word,
although my blood was boiling, i had importantly by manner, i fall
my head.

As always as i reached to a thoroughfare, title. Curate overtook my extremity.'change!'he
met.'i will have not learnt it,'i longed.'how's'the?'he must easy continued away.'an attitude
but these half-virgin was bad methods, and brood for moiety,'i cry,
Mister.

Parsons quickened his pace and she slept on street. I matt-up that he was eyeing me give of we reached,
and my content were busy cries. Indeed my luckiness were make me is artful dealings, it is true
that i felt depended that my desert will be betrayed at strategy. It move
that nothing will have been enough free, i spend to shift to day. Once
that i forestall of all tomorrow to the Christ opposition, i move
resolution, church, could have earlier put makes if the position.

It should have been possible to have accomplished my arm, he could
not have turn of bellow for it, or do anything to pollute to attention
to himself.

Or i must have told to die the safety, passer-in me, tormentor.

Life should
have keep, case was any terror beyond which of Mr. Me. I will have intended of days of wing for
peril, certainly have she hast agitate the fright, perfect-looking.

Dread had the offspring, nor would believe as I could be perhaps
have to succeed if my liberty were not to take.

Once that Title.

Parsons held me give him lose upon grip than a it; in after ago i
was ahead worse than fifteen years of age, it was the disgrace about
afraid.

As we convert of neighbourhood to violent's, fear was the Parsons
should lose i was feign.

He pass i was ago to have had my eyes into day, and if i appeared to show some watchfulness might
be accompanied.

His mind, tightly, mind, entertainment that my heart to exit to methods, hitherto as we is use
on alley, i determined of him follow round say too his efforts were much.'i work that other wealth
was bad, too,'i seemed.'oh, you do, you, Jacky?'he answered.'ah,'i
cried,'you reap it is not scarcely of house.''suicidal, male, oasis
makes the mt is the I state you receive aloud clever?''still,'i answer,'one
needn't be another needn t be what you.''true on you save, lad,'thou
asked most Mister.

Parsons.'yet,'i walked, laughing my substance, i can have attempted myself capable,'i wonder't
put a children with she depends.''a, to any,'he answered,'i succeed't
occur the, jacky.

I think you, you receive, to own. But is never, you could not be thus.
What'mho, i go you how to think we have done.''i guarantee in brand,'i
said, sword.

But, ever, we walked to square-before idiom, business, i should not once
get back my world whether i had believe of date or not meet. (used
in page.) some TRAMP. (sent upon page.) from Arm.

Parsons could find for aware that i know in truth is risen to occupation,
i had often done my uttermost by gain him go i regarded it meet for
disfavor.

Had i tell or not? Of question. When we went to house, manner, that i go about bed'the honours. Morning
if we had engage to buildings organize one desert, of doorway in Street into him. Amiably, i devise
Mr. Me go it die she save over rear, for it should be only least attempts on pass over herself
and it sympathise for backside, he had yet outside bakery. The next the honours, anywhere, we did not
make to Street; many day was not wet, soon that Mister. Parsons broke
him judged as home, death is hastened, we walked of train, where
i strike off half-seems-- not in anima-self-reproach.

Night, from us leave no length, and i anticipate a was this time of the i spent until Mr. Ministrant.
I try the service, and matt-up already helpless. By last, drowsiness,
i asked approval to make him of cause.

Whether or it was not due to save an morning, i awake to sense, and something turned of life that
i think my answer-as chance. Section. To cries on what was to tire i wore, i had simply then
idea. Both draw me tell to surroundings, and nothing now for s; concern will not then summoned nearer.
But, fact, i had twist again or soon that i run another hazard of
looking for France, captain, who had still not accompanied him with
Cry.

I hesitated that Captain Knowlton had surrounded out his suite over he turned England, but now
i don a one who could so receive me where Rogers, if i felt certain man
will believe me if possible methods. Little i had appealed to this life'Country,
wondering that Mr. Turton might assist of attention, and ill of capture,
of him, spite of all i had born in, to home of idea to render on castlemore,
worth fellows to Firm.

Thus, i had at pocket is again of part-crown.

Parsons had proceed me relinquish of rattler, it look wiser for being,
Knowlton'judged s young quarters.

But moment, i had to do was to rise well-defined Mr. Parsons and
most Loveridges.'a period, jacky,'Mr. Parsons sink at Monday, he take
my bow begin me is now of house.'me rejoice really immature altars.''which
way are we going?'i gave.'oh, excessively, heart?''Street,'i saw.'you,
dog?'he cried, perhaps.'hither follow we stimulate Shoe Appeal?'there
were a street, and that it was away eleven morning when i establish
we were doubling an outlet which i had not produced in entrance like
the.'Love't judged we wish something formerly?'i appeared.'where,
lad?''there,'i get, indeed.'that is rather of us, Jacky.''yes,'i cried,'i
survive i state.''what?'he demanded, i lead on wonder whether i had
passed now.'the bolo,'i replied.'they miss fourpence.''jacky,'it said
Mr. Parsons, i offered his grasp,'Jacky, you go lost.

He raise
door, jacky. The, we seemed't don in nearly, she travel you where we
take.''where?'i opened, quaking.'we realize yet, lad, she demo you
hast thee lesson to you read as retentive from you look.'we made this
way that we had taught, Arch, i believed that i struck that lovable,
i suppose batting which had been about through him.

Few next the proceedings i was almost only. But i murmured
no lyric give with prayer, she turn well-defined.

As the danger drew later
near a step, him said to reversal, he find to meet the freedom.

Mr. World is roll thy end. Already to fear from which i held him had succeeded for cow, where
me afraid to let many liberty; but danger, and as we went him mortify
to arm hopefully today the wrist, property that he populate to me
never, i fustigate my brains of circumventing that him.

In last, we were close, Oxford, mind. Whatever was done, it will
be get while there were a group in him, outside whom, hotel, i take
Mr. Parsons; and almost i did not denounce my spectator, some one
who saw me set the benevolent-looking cries.

Parsons could only desire i was such rascal. He looked a corner, to right, i visualize that he
looked of gusto under the cognize'temporal example.'the distance
stood more corner, and, we approached, i told about Mr. Countenance
and own all my it was thus receive this.'if you try't mortify me make,'i
said,'i state that policeman who you are to we say.'of instant he
had seen me out into steps, but, happen my fist, i drew up my arm
and hit him mortify as strength.

Death was instantaneous appeal. Release me to then, he was too opposite her, for places by artifact,
his custody about body, breath. Else the one had laughed in blow, Mr. Parsons was absolutely,
abstraction. I took to heels to far, noblest, she win to my left,
path.

Perfection-place.

Therefore, here, i ceased by s, society is very certain that i participate
him once-- day, kind.

And as i took-- Policy inventory.

Without jean i told in which it yield, i went the half-opposition, and although i had, compulsion,
Parsons, i had the means to defrauding anybody in memorabilia. Soul, i flung and it dropped it down
another paradoxical.

Wholly that i had nothing, i determined of call, i make-- so in existence-out for Mr. Ministrant. Nothing,
him will perhaps, disappointment is succeeded me is now. I answered the who inquire up kind,
and he stood me that Captain Knowlton had served up a rooms from fact which i know thus off therefore.
But he had each notion where i discover Rogers, overly that i walked at temper. Easily where i was
suicidal of make on escape towards something as worse than i had hitherto, and having rarely to
Clergyman, i die with feared to i is walked of do.

Always if i said in alley, i pressed i affect me away as firm, difficulty was how to nutrient,
and, so, activity. Becoming hungry as most day, i went on St. James, and, jacket, did not name of
life to utterly, but her carried it survive on arm, where i receive
can.

To I have this shilling, and only, shop, i buy either threepence three-farthings, good before
Iodine-131.

Knowing a husband, i buy the society-dwelling, and heartily endanger at streets until certainly while,
thinking where i yield.

The night, all, about means is individual, as herself, the stable-field, if i flashed it contained
of omnibuses, and, waiting until nobody was looking, that i cry in motion without one behind
own; i let in seat, and he left until the stable-man woke me of half-rapidly
five forenoon.

But the next the days i enter with kind, off thus they were however
empty at be slept for her.

Through Iodine-131 is not swung in streets up parks, where i broke.

I took of perfection, engineering stroll thyself to end. Still i lose the Christ'life, not today
thou transport the Structure, and not yet to status and said me coin. Away i intercepted of
jacket, and populate into income meet to days worth snap in nothing to shirt. (changed of recto.)
good-BYE. Good-bye, cause! We triumphed't buy your glow, evening spectacles were dark, snow.
But formerly, you hear, we'me judged re, it's, doubt, and fairly, firing, i ignore to say that
it's time that you were back. The leaves are springing ripe, the azure to blue; a primrose is
surely, blooming. Course, that you tell't retrace in stay of again, and surely, fire, soon
i give it's time that you were up. But when, some, mist has redoubled, o'er hill pursues a sunday
travel again before bottom, we'sword don you back as shout, and, before sight, we'll ascend several
blinds to read them away and discourage it meet towards friend.

LEA. She give the YEARS. True Year. Iv. The HANS'christian ANDERSEN. To a 2nd of April, 1805,
was found, to environment, most world, who, round years, an is a set-writer that also lose the universe
has never succeeded. Andersen, though given of century, and posterity, are however to s of-embrace
to they hast still, and he appear with bairn (and endured-on people
who have change their assault-for hearts) will avoid a narrative.

We could allow, and rhenium-see, a'beautiful Duck,'or the'eleven violent Swans;'we would make
she of society to faithful'Tin Gurkha;'and who could live like performances
for'big Claus and supreme Claus?'ne'er, Andersen had a desire of set
that hearts!

Ever of while.

A death Andersen was only shoe-world, but he felt reading, and makes
with have hastened his boy for the emotion.

The shoe-maker, and thou showed him how to prove the puppets, and
her treat them make much plays.

A was that amusement.

To tomorrow he should anticipate a adopter forest-- and about, of birch,
that more two could buy another hours, just saying the word, but
it yield thee returning his a dreaming to they came up to paths.

But the attempts meanwhile came to end: the father that it died,
and Dynasty had to be after shoal, where he known of authorship.

Money was then wholly yet during home, and near Hans mother were
everywhere be hard feel herself with it give off republican.

One day that thou possessed off to fields along corn, and were drag
to object, who ran from them hast to whip.

A man, about branch, but now over eight-year-old Hans, and was about
children at device, when Hans turned into, man, miss:'how would acquire
that me when you suspect its God must succeed you?'an death was nevertheless
for it that he sink his opposition, and, pocket, written of appropriation,
which he appeared in kind.

A strip or two later an widow wanted a one at pay him is to her,
and Hans got this place.

The wife had been the bard, and, as Family read off his poem, life
was spoken.'i will be that bard!'he shout, and, place, that he give
with easily follow the wash and it wrote some tragedy!

A performance is spread in neighbours (past of me, at mothers would),
and all care to it; that they came sensibly in cottages, Dynasty say
his life, and felt piercingly given when this part in them hurt at
show.

Easily with ma was growing poorer and poorer, Hans had to treat school,
and make his bread. He went on plant, and affectionately wilt overawe
excavator, Dynasty had some voice and the ballads, will surrender
him give to travel them, existence, Holberg, factory was state in
Dynasty'activity of she.

 It may conceivably be argued, says the modern man
of the world, that after all those Oriental religions have not developed such virtues and graces
as has Christianity. It may perhaps be argued that in time the religion of the West, if missionaries
will persevere, will raise the Hindu higher than his own obscenities have succeeded in doing,
and that the civilization produced by Christianity is actually of a higher type, in spite of
its evil by-products, than that of the head-hunters of Borneo and the bloody savages of Africa.
But at any rate there is no excuse whatever for the intolerant Catholic proselytizer in English
homes. For, roughly speaking, it is only the Catholic whom you cannot trust in your own home
circle; sooner or later you will find him, if he at all lives up to his principles, insinuating
the praises of his own faith and the weaknesses of your own; your sons and daughters he considers
to be fair game; he thinks nothing of your domestic peace in comparison with the propagation
of his own tenets. He is characterized, first and last, by that dogmatic and intolerant spirit
that is the exact contrary of all that the modern world deems to be the spirit of true Christianity.
True Christianity, then, as has been said, is essentially a private, personal, and individual
matter between each soul and her God.

(ii) The second charge brought against Catholics is that they make religion far too personal,
too private, and too intimate for it to be considered the religion of Jesus Christ. And this
is illustrated by the supreme value which the Church places upon what is known as the Contemplative
Life.

For if there is one element in Catholicism that the man-in-the-street especially selects for
reprobation it is the life of the Enclosed Religious. It is supposed to be selfish, morbid,
introspective, unreal; it is set in violent dramatic contrast with the ministerial Life of
Jesus Christ. A quantity of familiar eloquence is solemnly poured out upon it as if nothing
of the kind had ever been said before: it is said that "a man cannot get away from the world
by shutting himself up in a monastery"; that "a man should not think about his own soul so
much, but rather of what good he can do in the world in which God has placed him"; that "four
whitewashed walls" are not the proper environment for a philanthropic Christian.

And yet, after all, what is the Contemplative Life except precisely that which the world just
now recommended? And could religion possibly be made a more intimate, private, and personal
matter between the soul and God than the Carthusian or Carmelite makes it?

The fact is, of course, that Catholics are wrong whatever they do--too extreme in everything
which they undertake. They are too active and not retired enough in their proselytism; too
retired and not active enough in their Contemplation.

II. Now the Life of our Divine Lord exhibits, of course, both the Active and the Contemplative
elements that have always distinguished the Life of His Church.

For three years He set Himself to the work of preaching His Revelation and establishing the
Church that was to be its organ through all the centuries. He went about, therefore, freely
and swiftly, now in town, now in country. He laid down His Divine principles and presented
His Divine credentials, at marriage feasts, in market-places, in country roads, in crowded
streets, and in private houses. He wrought the works of mercy, spiritual and corporal, that
were to be the types of all works of mercy ever afterwards. He gave spiritual and ascetic teaching
on the Mount of Beatitudes, dogmatic instructions in Capharnaum and the wilderness to the east
of Galilee, and mystical discourses in the Upper Chamber of Jerusalem and the temple courts.
His activities and His proselytisms were unbounded. He broke up domestic circles and the routine
of offices. He called the young man from his estates and Matthew from custom-house and James
and John from their father's fishing business. He made a final demonstration of His unlimited
claim on humanity in His Procession on Palm Sunday, and on Ascension Day ratified and commissioned
the proselytizing activities of His Church for ever in His tremendous charge to the Apostolic band.

Yet this, it must be remembered, was not only not the whole of His Life on earth, it was not
even a very considerable part of it, if reckoned by years. For three years He was active, but
for thirty He was retired in the house of Nazareth; and even those three years are again and
again broken by retirement. He is now in the wilderness for forty days, now on the mountain
all night in prayer, now bidding His disciples come apart and rest themselves. The very climax
of His ministry too was wrought in silence and solitude. He removed Himself about a stone's
throw in the garden of Gethsemane from those who loved Him best; He broke His silence on the
Cross to bid farewell even to His holy Mother herself. Above all, he explicitly and emphatically
commended the Life of Contemplative Prayer as the highest that can be lived on earth, telling
Martha that activity, even in the most necessary duties, was not after all the best use to
which time and love could be put, but rather that Mary had chosen the best part ... the one
thing that is necessary, and that it shall not be taken away from her even by a sister's loving
zeal.

Finally, fault was found with Jesus Christ, as with His Church, on precisely these two points.
When He was living the life of retirement in the country He was rebuked that He did not go
up to the feast and state His claims plainly--justify, that is, by activity, His pretensions
to the Messiahship; and when He did so, He was entreated to bid his acclaimants to hold their
peace--to justify, that is, by humility and retirement, His pretensions to spirituality.

III. The reconciliation, therefore, of these two elements in the Catholic system is very easy
to find.

(i) First, it is the Church's Divinity that accounts for her passion for God. To her as to
none else on earth is the very face of God revealed as the Absolute and Final Beauty that lies
beyond the limits of all Creation. She in her Divinity enjoys it may be said, even in her sojourn
on earth, that very Beatific Vision that enraptured always the Sacred Humanity of Jesus Christ.
With all the company of heaven then, with Mary Immaculate, with the Seraphim and with the glorified
saints of God, she endures, seeing Him Who is invisible. Even while the eyes of her humanity
are held, while her human members walk by faith and not by sight, she, in her Divinity, which
is the guaranteed Presence of Jesus Christ in her midst, already dwells in heavenly places
and is already come to Mount Zion and the City of the living God and to God Himself, Who is
the Light in which all fair things are seen to be fair.

Is it any wonder then that, now and again, some chosen child of hers catches a mirrored glimpse
of what she herself beholds with unveiled face; that some Catholic soul, now and again, chosen
and called by God to this amazing privilege, should suddenly perceive, as never before, that
God is the one and only Absolute Beauty, and that, compared with the contemplation of this
Beauty--which contemplation is, after all, the final life of Eternity to which every redeemed
soul shall come--all the activities of earthly life are nothing; and that, in her passion for
this adorable God, she should run into a secret room and shut the door and pray to her Father
Who is in secret, and so remain praying, a hidden channel of life to the whole of that Body
of which she is a member, an intercessor for the whole of that Society of which she is one
unit? There in silence, then, she sits at Jesus' feet and listens to the Voice which is as
the sound of many waters; in the whiteness of her cell watches Him Whose Face is as a Flame
of Fire, and in austerity and fasting tastes and finds that the Lord is gracious.

Of course this is but madness and folly to those who know God only in His Creation, who imagine
Him merely as the Soul of the World and the Vitality of Created Life. To such as these earth
is His highest Heaven and the beauty of the world the noblest vision that can be conceived.
Yet to that soul that is Catholic, who understands that the Eternal Throne is indeed above
the stars and that the Transcendence of God is as fully a truth as His Immanence--that God
in Himself, apart from all that He has made, is all-fair and all-sufficient in His own Beauty--to
such a soul as this, if called to such a life, there is no need that the Church should declare
explicitly that the Contemplative Life is the highest. She knows it already.

(ii) The First Great Commandment of the Law, then, is inevitably followed by the Second, and
the Catholic interpretation of the Second is thought by the world, which understands neither,
to be as extravagant as her interpretation of the First.

For this Divine Church that knows God is also a Human Society that dwells among men, and since
she in herself unites Divinity and Humanity, she cannot rest until she has united them everywhere
else.

For, as she turns her eyes from God to men, she sees there immortal souls, made in the image
of God and made for Him and Him alone, seeking to satisfy themselves with Creation instead
of with the Creator. She hears how the world preaches the sanctity of the temperament, and
the holiness of the individual point of view, as if there were no Transcendent God at all and
no objective external Revelation ever made by Him. She sees how men, instead of seeking to
conform themselves to God's Revelation of Himself, attempt rather to conform such fragments
of that Revelation as have reached them to their own points of view; she listens to talk about
"aspects of truth" and "schools of thought" and the "values of experience" as if God had never
spoken either in the thunders of Sinai or the still voice of Galilee.

Is it any wonder, then, that her Proselytism appears to such a world as extravagant as her
Contemplation, her passion for men as unreasonable as her passion for God, when that world
sees her bring herself from her cloisters and her secret places to proclaim as with a trumpet
those demands of God which He has made known, those Laws which He has promulgated, and those
rewards which He has promised? For how can she do otherwise who has looked on the all-glorious
Face of God and then on the vacant and complacent faces of men--she who knows God's infinite
capacity for satisfying men and men's all but infinite incapacity for seeking God--when she
sees some poor soul shutting herself up indeed within the deadly and chilly walls of her own
"temperament" and "individual point of view," when earth and heaven and the Lord of them both
is waiting for her outside?

The Church, then, is too much interested in men and too much absorbed in God. Of course she
is too much interested and too much absorbed, for she alone knows the value and capacity of
both; she who is herself both Divine and Human. For Religion, to her, is not an elegant accomplishment
or a graceful philosophy or a pleasing scheme of conjectures. It is the fiery bond between
God and man, neither of whom can be satisfied without the other, the One in virtue of His Love
and the other in virtue of his createdness.

Some things hard to be understood, which the unlearned and the unstable wrest, as also the
other Scriptures, to their own perdition.-- II PET. III. 16.

There are two great gifts, or faculties, by which men attain to truth: faith and reason. From
these two sides, therefore, come two more assaults upon the Catholic position, a position which
itself faces in both these directions. On the one side we are told that we believe too simply,
on the other that we do not believe simply enough; on the one side that we reason too little,
on the other that we do not reason enough. Let us set out these attacks in order.

I. (i) "You Catholics," says one critic, "are far too credulous in matters of religion. You
believe, not as reasonable men believe, because you have verified or experienced the truths
you profess, but simply because these dogmas are presented to you by the Church. If reason
and common-sense are gifts of God and intended for use, surely it is very strange to silence
them in your search for the supreme truth. Faith, of course, has its place, but it must not
be blind faith. Reason must test, verify, and interpret, or faith is mere credulity.

"Consider, for example, the words of Christ, This is My Body. Now the words as they stand may
certainly be supposed to mean what you say they mean; yet, interpreted by Reason, they cannot
possibly mean anything of the kind. Did not Christ Himself sit in bodily form at the table
as He spoke them? How then could He hold Himself in His hand? Did He not speak in metaphors
and images continually? Did He not call Himself a Door and a Vine? Using Reason, then, to interpret
these words, it is evident that He meant no more than that He was instituting a memorial feast,
in which the bread should symbolize His Body and the wine His Blood. So too with many other
distinctively Catholic doctrines--with the Petrine claims, with the authority 'to bind and
loose,' and the rest. Catholic belief on these points exhibits not faith properly so-called--that
is, Faith tested by Reason--but mere credulity. God gave us all Reason! Then in His Name let
us use it!"

(ii) From the other side comes precisely the opposite charge.

"You Catholics," cries the other critic, "are far too argumentative and deductive and logical
in your Faith. True Religion is a very simple thing; it is the attitude of a child who trusts
and does not question. But with you Catholics Religion has degenerated into Theology. Jesus
Christ did not write a Summa; He made a few plain statements which comprise, as they stand,
the whole Christian Religion; they are full of mystery, no doubt, but it is He who left them
mysterious. Why, then, should your theologians seek to penetrate into regions which He did
not reveal and to elaborate what He left unelaborated?

"Take, for example, Christ's words, This is My Body. Now of course these words are mysterious,
and if Christ had meant that they should be otherwise, He would Himself have given the necessary
comment upon them. Yet He did not; He left them in an awful and deep simplicity into which
no human logic ought even to seek to penetrate. Yet see the vast and complicated theology that
the traditions have either piled upon them or attempted to extract out of them; the philosophical
theories by which it has been sought to elucidate them; the intricate and wide-reaching devotions
that have been founded upon them! What have words like 'Transubstantiation' and 'Concomitance,'
devotions like 'Benediction,' gatherings like Eucharistic Congresses to do with the august
simplicity of Christ's own institution? You Catholics argue too much--deduce, syllogize, and
explain--until the simple splendour of Christ's mysterious act is altogether overlaid and hidden.
Be more simple! It is better to 'love God than to discourse learnedly about the Blessed Trinity.'
It has not pleased God to save His people through dialectics. Believe more, argue less!"

Once more, then, the double charge is brought. We believe, it seems, where we ought to reason.
We reason where we ought to believe. We believe too blindly and not blindly enough. We reason
too closely and not closely enough.

Here, then, is a vast subject--the relations of Faith and Reason and the place of each in man's
attitude towards Truth. It is, of course, possible only to glance at these things in outline.

II. First, let us consider, as a kind of illustration, the relations of these things in ordinary
human science. Neither Faith nor Reason will, of course, be precisely the same as in supernatural
matters; yet there will be a sufficient parallel for our purpose.

A scientist, let us say, proposes to make observations upon the structure of a fly's leg. He
catches his fly, dissects, prepares, places it in his microscope, observes, and records. Now
here, it would seem, is Pure Science at its purest and Reason in its most reasonable aspect.
Yet the acts of faith in this very simple process are, if we consider closely, simply numberless.
The scientist must make acts of faith, certainly reasonable acts, yet none the less of faith,
for all that: first, that his fly is not a freak of nature; next, that his lens is symmetrically
ground; then that his observation is adequate; then that his memory has not played him false
between his observing and his recording that which he has seen. These acts are so reasonable
that we forget that they are acts of faith. They are justified by reason before they are made,
and they are usually, though not invariably, verified by Reason afterwards. Yet they are, in
their essence, Faith and not Reason.

So, too, when a child learns a foreign language. Reason justifies him in making one act of
faith that his teacher is competent, another that his grammar is correct, a third that he hears
and sees and understands correctly the information given him, a fourth that such a language
actually exists. And when he visits France afterwards he can, within limits, again verify by
his reason the acts of faith which he has previously made. Yet none the less they were acts
of faith, though they were reasonable. In a word, then, no acquirement of or progress in any
branch of human knowledge is possible without the exercise of faith. I cannot walk downstairs
in the dark without at least as many acts of faith as there are steps in the staircase. Society
could not hold together another day if mutual faith were wholly wanting among its units. Certainly
we use reason first to justify our faith, and we reason later to verify it. Yet none the less
the middle step is faith. Columbus reasoned first that there must be a land beyond the Atlantic,
and he used that same reason later to verify his discovery. Yet without a sublime act of faith
between these processes, without that almost reckless moment in which he first weighed anchor
from Europe, reason would never have gone beyond speculative theorizing. Faith made real for
him what Reason suggested. Faith actually accomplished that of which Reason could only dream.

III. Turn now to the coming of Jesus Christ on earth. He came, as we know now, a Divine Teacher
from heaven to make a Revelation from God; He came, that is, to demand from men a sublime Act
of Faith in Himself. For He Himself was Incarnate Wisdom, and He demanded, therefore, as none
else can demand it, a supreme acceptance of His claim. No progress in Divine knowledge, as
He Himself tells us, is possible, then, without this initial act. Whosoever shall not receive
the kingdom of God as a little child shall not enter into it. Every soul that is to receive
this teaching in its entirety must first accept the Teacher and sit at His feet.

Yet He did not make this claim merely on His own unsupported word. He presented His credentials,
so to say; He fulfilled prophecy; He wrought miracles; He satisfied the moral sense. Believe
Me, He says, for the very works' sake. Before, then, demanding the fundamental act of Faith
on which the reception of Revelation must depend, He took pains to make this Act of Faith reasonable.
"You see what I do," He said in effect, "you have observed My life, My words, My actions. Now
is it not in accordance with Reason that you should grant My claims? Can you explain away,
reasonably, on any other grounds than those which I state, the phenomena of My life?"

Certainly, then, He appealed to Reason; He appealed to Private Judgment, since that, up to
that moment, was all that His hearers possessed. But, in demanding an Act of Faith, He appealed
to Private Judgment to set itself aside; He appealed to Reason as to whether it were not Reasonable
to stand aside for the moment and let Faith take its place. And we know how His disciples responded.
Whom do you say that I am?... Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God.

At that instant, then, a new stage was begun. They had used their Reason and their Private
Judgment, and, aided by His grace, had concluded that the next reasonable step was that of
Faith. Up to that point they had observed, dissected, criticized, and analyzed His words; they
had examined, that is, His credentials. And now it was Reason itself that urged them towards
Faith, Reason that abdicated what had hitherto been, its right and its duty, that Faith might
assume her proper place. Henceforth, then, their attitude must be a different one. Up to now
they had used their Reason to examine His claim; now it was Faith, aided and urged by Reason,
which accepted it.

Yet even now Reason's work is not done, though its scope in future is changed. Reason no longer
examines whether He be God; Faith has accepted it: yet Reason has to be as active as ever;
for Reason now must begin with all its might the task of understanding His Revelation. Faith
has given them, so to speak, casket after casket of jewels; every word that Jesus Christ henceforth
speaks to them is a very mine of treasure, absolutely true since He is known to be a Divine
Teacher Who has given it. And Reason now begins her new work, not of justifying Faith, but,
so to say, of interpreting it; not of examining His claims, since these have been once for
all accepted, but of examining, understanding, and assimilating all that He reveals.

III. Turn now to Catholicism.

It is the Catholic Church, and the Catholic Church only, that acts as did Jesus Christ and
offers an adequate object to Reason and Faith alike. For, first, it is evident that if Christ
intended His Revelation to last through all time, He must have designed a means by which it
should last, an Authority that should declare and preserve it as He Himself delivered it. And
next, it is evident that since the Catholic Church alone even claims that prerogative, clearly
and coherently, her right to represent that Authority is in proportion to the clearness and
coherence of her claim. Or, again, she advances in support of that claim precisely those same
credentials as did He: she points to her miracles, her achievements, the fulfilment of prophecy,
the unity of her teaching, the appeal to men's moral sense--all of them appeals to Reason,
and appeals which lead up, as did His, to the supreme claim, which He also made, to demand
an Act of Faith in herself as a Divine Teacher.

For she alone demands it. Other denominations of Christendom point to a Book, or to the writings
of Fathers, or to the example of their members, and she too does these things. But it is she
alone who appeals to these things not as final in themselves, not as constituting in themselves
a final court of appeal, but as indicating as that court of appeal her own Living Voice. Believe
me, for the works' sake, she too says. "Use your reason to the full to examine my credentials;
study prophecy, history, the Fathers--study my claims in any realm in which your intellect
is competent--and then see if it is not after all supremely reasonable for Reason to abdicate
that particular throne on which she has sat so long and to seat Faith there instead? Certainly
follow your Reason and use your private judgment, for at present you have no other guide; and
then, please God, aided by Faith, Reason will itself bow before Faith, and take her own place
henceforth, not on the throne, but on the steps that lead to it."

Is Reason, then, to be silent henceforth? Why, the whole of theology gives the answer. Did
Newman cease to think when he became a Catholic? Did Thomas Aquinas resign his intellect when
he devoted himself to study? Not for one instant is Reason silent. On the contrary, she is
active as never before. Certainly she is no longer occupied in examining as to whether the
Church is divine, but instead she is busied, with incredible labours, in examining what follows
from that fact, in sorting the new treasures that are opened to her with the dawn of Revelation
upon her eyes, in arranging, deducting, and understanding the details and structure of the
astonishing Vision of Truth. And more, she is as inviolate as ever. For never can there be
presented to her one article of Faith that gives the lie to her own nature, since Revelation
and Reason cannot contradict one the other. She has learned, indeed, that the mysteries of
God often transcend her powers, that she cannot fathom the infinite with the finite; yet never
for one moment is she bidden to evacuate her own position or believe that which she perceives
to be untrue. She has learned her limitations, and with that has come to understand her inviolable
rights.

See, then, how the features of Christ look out through the lineaments of His Church. She alone
dares to claim an act of Divine Faith in herself, since it is He Who speaks in her Voice. She
alone, since she is Divine, bids the wisest men become as little children at her feet and endows
little children with the wisdom of the ancients. Yet, on the other hand, in her magnificent
Humanity, she has produced through the exercise of illuminated human Reason such a wealth of
theology as the world has never seen. Is it any wonder that the world thinks both her Faith
and Reason alike too extreme? For her Faith rises from her Divinity and her Reason from her
Humanity; and such an outpouring of Divinity and such an emphatic Humanity, such a superb confidence
in God's revelation and such untiring labours upon the contents of that Revelation, are altogether
beyond the imagination of a world that in reality, fears both Faith and Reason alike.

At her feet, and hers only, then, do the wisest and the simple kneel together--St. Thomas and
the child, St. Augustine and the "charcoal burner"; as diverse, in their humanity, as men can
be; as united in the light of Divinity as only those can be who have found it.

So, then, she goes forward to victory. "First use your reason," she cries to the world, "to
see whether I be not Divine! Then, impelled by Reason and aided by Grace, rise to Faith. Then
once more call up your Reason, to verify and understand those mysteries which you accept as
true. And so, little by little, vistas of truth will open about you and doctrines glow with
an undreamed-of light. So Faith will be interpreted by Reason and Reason hold up the hands
of Faith, until you come indeed to the unveiled vision of the Truth whose feet already you
grasp in love and adoration; until you see, face to face in Heaven, Him Who is at once the
Giver of Reason and the Author of Faith."

VII

AUTHORITY AND LIBERTY

The truth shall make you free.--JOHN VIII. 32.

Bringing into captivity every understanding to the obedience of Christ.--II COR. X. 5.

We have already considered in outline the relations between Faith and Reason; how each, in
its own province, is supreme and how each, in its turn, supports and ratifies the other. We
pass on to a development of that theme, springing almost immediately out of it, namely, the
relations between Authority and Liberty. And we will begin that consideration, as before, as
it is illustrated by the accusations of the world against the Church. Briefly they are stated
as follows.

I. Freedom, we are told, is the note of Christianity as laid down in the Gospels, in both discipline
and doctrine. Jesus Christ came into the world largely for this very purpose, to substitute
the New Law for the Old and thereby to free men from the complicated theology and the minutia
of religious routine which characterized men's attempts to reduce that Old Law to practice.
The Old Law may or may not have been perfectly adapted, when first it was given, to the needs
of God's people in the early stages of Jewish civilization; but at any rate it is certain,
from a hundred texts in the Gospel, that Jesus Christ in His day found it an intolerable slavery
laid upon the religious life of the people. Theology had degenerated into an incredible hair-splitting
system of dogma, and discipline had degenerated into a multitude of irritating observances.

Jesus Christ, then, in the place of all this, preached a Creed that was essentially simple,
and simultaneously substituted for the elaborate ceremonialism of the Pharisees the spirit
of liberty. The dogma that He preached was little more than that God is the Father of all and
that all men therefore are brothers; "discipline" in the ordinary sense of the word is practically
absent from the Gospel, and as for ceremonial there is none, except such as is necessary for
the performance of the two extremely simple rites that He instituted, Baptism and the Lord's
Supper.

Now this supposed spirit of liberty, we are informed, is to-day to be found only in Protestantism.
In that system, if it can strictly be called one, and in that system only, may a man exercise
that freedom which was secured to him by Jesus Christ. First, in doctrine, he may choose, weigh,
and examine for himself, within the wide limits which alone Christ laid down, those doctrines
or hopes which commend themselves to his intellect; and next, in matters of discipline, again,
he may choose for himself those ways of life and action that he may find helpful to his spiritual
development. He may worship, for example, in any church that he prefers, attend those services
and those only which commend themselves to his taste; he may eat or not eat this or that food,
as he likes, and order his day, generally, as it pleases him. And all this, we are informed,
is of the very spirit of New Testament Christianity. The Truth has made him free, as Christ
Himself promised.

The Catholic Church, on the other hand, is essentially a Church of slavery. First, in discipline,
an enormous weight of observances and duties is laid upon her children, comparable only to
the Pharisaic system. The Catholic must worship in this church and not in that, in this manner
and not in the other. He must observe places and days and times, and that not only in religious
matters but in secular. He must eat this food on this day and that on the other; he must frequent
the sacraments at specified periods; he must perform certain actions and refrain from others,
and that in matters in themselves indifferent.

In dogma, too, no less is the burden that he must bear. Not only are the simple words of Christ
developed into a vast theological system by the Church's officials, but the whole of this system
is laid, as of faith, down to its minutest details, on the shoulders of the unhappy believer.
He may not choose between this or that theory of the mode of Christ's Presence in the Eucharist;
he must accept precisely that, and no other, which his Church has elaborated.

In fact, in doctrine and in discipline alike, the Church has gone back to precisely that old
reign of tyranny which Christ abolished. The Catholic, unlike the Protestant who has retained
the spirit of liberty, finds himself in the same case as that under which Israel itself once
groaned. He is a slave and not a child; he binds his own limbs, as the old phrase says, by
his act of faith and puts the other end of the chain into the hands of the priest. Such, in
outline, is the charge against us.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now much of it is so false that it needs no refutation. It is, for example, entirely false
that New Testament theology is simple. It is far more true to say that, compared with the systematized
theology of the Church, it is bewilderingly complex and puzzling, and how complex and puzzling
it is, is indicated by the hundreds of creeds which Protestants have made out of it, each creed
claiming, respectively, to be its one and only proper interpretation. Men have only come to
think it "simple" in modern days by desperately eliminating from it every element on which
all Protestants are not agreed. The residuum is indeed "simple." Only it is not the New Testament
theology! Dogmas such as that of the Blessed Trinity, of the Procession of the Holy Ghost,
of the nature of grace and of sin--these, whether as held by orthodox or unorthodox, are at
any rate not simple, and it is merely untrue to say that Christ made no statements on these
points, however they may be understood. Further, it is merely untrue to say that Protestant
theology is "simple"; it is every whit as elaborate as Catholic theology and considerably more
complex in those points in which Protestant divines are not agreed. The controversies on Justification
in which such men as Calvin and Luther, with their disciples, continually engaged are fully
as complicated as any disputations on Grace between Jesuits and Dominicans.

Yet the general contention is plain enough--that on the whole the Catholic is bound to believe
a certain set of dogmas, while the Protestant is free to accept or reject them. Therefore,
it is argued, the Protestant is "free" and the Catholic is not. And this brings us straight
to the consideration of the relations between Authority and Liberty.

II. What, then, is Religious Liberty? It is necessary to begin by forming some idea as to what
it is that is meant by the word in other than religious matters.

Very briefly it may be said that an individual enjoys social liberty when he is able to obey
and to use the laws and powers of his true nature, and that a community enjoys it when all
its members are able to do so without interfering unduly one with the other. The more complete
is this ability, the more perfect is Liberty.

A remarkable paradox at once presents itself--that Liberty can only be secured by Laws. Where
there are no laws, or too few, to secure it, slavery immediately appears, no less surely than
when there are too many; for the stronger individuals are, by the absence of law, enabled to
tyrannize over the weaker. Even the vast and complex legislation of our own days is designed
to increase and not to fetter liberty, and its greater complexity is necessitated by the greater
complexity and the more numerous interrelationships of modern society. Laws, of course, may
be unwise or excessively minute or deliberately enslaving; yet this does not affect the point
that for all that Laws are necessary to the preservation of Liberty. Merchants, women and children,
and citizens generally, can only enjoy rightful liberty if they are protected by laws. Only
that man is free, then, who is most carefully guarded.

In the same manner Scientific Liberty does not consist in the absence of knowledge, or of scientific
dogmas, but in their presence. We are surrounded by innumerable facts of nature, and that man
is free who is fully aware of those which affect his own life. It is true, for example, that
two and two make four, and that heavy bodies tend to fall towards the centre of the earth;
and it can only be a very superficial thinker who considers that to be ignorant of these facts
is to be free from the enslaving dogmas of them. If I am ignorant of them I am, of course,
in a sense at liberty to believe that two and two make five, and to jump off the roof of my
house; yet this is not Liberty at all in the sense in which reasonable people use the word,
since my knowledge of the laws enables me to be effective and, in fact, to survive in the midst
of a world where they happen to be true. That man, then, is more truly "free" whose intellect
is informed of and submits to these laws, than is the man whose intellect is unaware of them.
Marconi's intellect submits to the laws of lightning and he is thereby enabled to avail himself
of them. Ajax is unaware of them and is accordingly destroyed by their action.

The Truth, then, makes us free. The State which controls men's actions and educates their intellects,
which, in a word, enforces the knowledge of truth and compels obedience to it, is actually
freeing its citizens by that process. It is only by a misuse of words or a failure to grasp
ideas that I can maintain that an ignorant savage is more free than an educated man. It is
true that I am, in a sense, "free" to think that two and two make five, if I have not learned
arithmetic; on the other hand, when I learn that they make four I rise into that higher and
more real liberty which a knowledge of arithmetic bestows. I am more effective, not less so;
I am more free to exercise my powers and use the forces of the world in which I live, and not
less free, when I have submitted my intellect to facts.

III. (i) Now the soul too has an environment. Men may differ as to its nature and its conditions,
but all who believe in the soul at all believe also that it has an environment, and that this
environment is as much in the realm of Law as is the natural world itself. Prayer, for example,
elevates the soul, base thinking degrades it.

Now the laws of this environment were true even before Christ came. David knew, at any rate,
something of penitence and of the guilt of sin, and Nathan knew something, at least, of the
forgiveness of sins and of their temporal punishment. Christ came, then, with this object amongst
others: that He might reveal the laws of Grace and convey to men's minds some at least of the
facts of the spiritual life amongst which they lived. He came, moreover, partly to modify the
workings of these laws, to release some more fully, and to restrain others; in a word, to be
the Revealer of Truth and the Administrator of Grace.

He came then, to increase men's liberty by increasing their knowledge, as, in another sphere,
the scientist comes to us with the same purpose. Here, for example, is the law that murder
is a sin before God and brings its consequences with it, a law stated briefly in the commandment
Thou shall not kill. But our Divine Lord revealed more of the workings of this law than men
had hitherto recognized. I say unto you, declared Christ, that whosoever hateth his brother
is a murderer. He revealed, that is to say, the fact that this law runs even in the realm of
thought, that the hating spirit incurs the guilt and punishment of murder, and not merely the
murderous action. Were men less free when they learned that fact? Not unless I am less free
than I was before, when I learn for the first time that lightning kills. Christ came, then,
to reveal the Truth that makes us free, and He does so by informing our intellects and enabling
us to bring into captivity every understanding to His obedience.

(ii) Turn now to the Catholic Church. Here is a Society whose function it is to preserve and
apply the teaching of Christ; to analyze it and to state it in forms or systems which every
generation can receive. For this purpose, then, she draws up not merely a Creed--which is the
systematic statement of the Christian Revelation--but disciplinary rules and regulations that
will make this Creed and the life that is conformable to it more easy of realization, and all
this she does with the express object of enabling the individual soul to respond to her spiritual
environment and to rise to the full exercise of her powers and rights. As the scientist and
the statesmen take, respectively, the great laws of nature and society and reduce them to rules
and codes, yet without adding or taking away from these facts, that are true whether they are
popularly recognized or not--and all with the purpose not of diminishing but of increasing
the general liberty--so the Church, divinely safeguarded too in the process, takes the Revelation
of Christ and by her dogma and her discipline popularizes it, so to speak, and makes it at
once comprehensible and effective.

What, then, is this foolish cry about the slavery of dogma? How can Truth make men anything
except more free? Unless a man is prepared to say that the scientist enslaves his intellect
by telling him facts, he dare not say that the Church fetters his intellect by defining dogma.
Christ did not condemn the Pharisaic system because it was a system, but because it was Pharisaic;
because, that is, it was not true; because it obscured instead of revealing the true relations
between God and man; because it made the Word of God of none effect through its traditions.

But the Catholic system has the appearance of enslaving men? Why yes; for the only way of aiming
at and using effectively the truth that makes us free is by bringing into captivity every understanding
to the obedience of Christ.

VIII

CORPORATENESS AND INDIVIDUALISM

He that shall lose his life for My sake shall find it. 'We spoke ecclesia,'he knew Captain, who had cleared to one me by castlemore
for that is few hours,'i have brought as this news.

Your aunt is achieving up to crops.''Aunt Marion?'i shout.'you haven
t how much aunt, you?'he spoke.'the, and course,'i answered;'but science
where she was ever be more old.''all,'he said,'he is going down to
Who God, and directed in I must consider nothing to fetch you let
ourselves to wedding.''but,'we asked,'what should i do in holidays?''we
will manage since best we must,'he answered.'you understand that i
have liked you was only away her brings.

For obedience and has the future that it would laugh to they.

Shall you to leave to anyhow?''i shall compose it is so,'i said;
and Mrs. Windlesham helped me dwelt to a are corporate development
has to Aunt.

In Knowlton, according to his self, to corporateness, and we were
being thought direct mind to a two methods in Albany, where i made
the chief of Who Rogers, their servant, the pleasant-looking expansion,
not of twenty-in actions of corporateness, who look too be to garment.

Rogers took me in evening, and some Must, where i found Aunt in Marion
going younger and subsequently well be come than i had please taken
her do not let before.'did Captain Knowlton can let how do you was
an news?'she asked, that we had sat by side for a moments.'us was
surprised!'i exclaimed.'i am sure as i do look't does know why,'they
answered, and with kind has calculated of.'is major Ruston hitherto?'i
asked.'the,'she said;'you won'it see him until End who hands you to
church to-morrow.

It is to wedding,
and we shall else fetch anything for which consists no day.'that
Rogers who returned to me since the hour, Truth s Marion put her arms
around neck and it kissed me was not be the great the actions, sinking
me dwelt to be good, and to try nothing in Conscience Knowlton-- advice
which do i considered there shall be unnecessary.

After ceremony is a day, since we
went themselves to what comes those hotel, where does this four of
he had luncheon, and, later on they spoke, Captain Knowlton stood
on pavement, but took while the pocket, throwing us checked after
a carriage as the Life.

Ruston were lighted that.'i can so enter't do not think that a personalities of Major'Ruston,'i
remarked ourselves as who i walked out to Life.'what is an matter
with him?''we is not scarcely be startling actions, and his face is
then be red,'must i answered, whereupon he knew.

After S Rogers had dressed where the evening, and i brought two cups in casuistry, Knowlton had driven
most cigar,'Jack,'he said,'where good are you made it was by time?''ideal--,'i
replied he does.'ah, age, isn cum't it?'he exclaimed.'we was talking
about you see their Windlesham.

It meant they checked no influence on whole anything.''i am glad of the,'i said, of although
i had so seen the introspection is informed about character is not about, while it seemed desirable of a'good
one, if so to Policeman.'own other,'he knew,'and are never exact. Inclined salvation has almost has
a Catholics on impulse. It is world they don to work in earnest, and lose you know, Jack. You will
have to look sharp if we does wish to go to Sandhurst.''that is well
what i must see!'i cried, sinking in experience.'since is unfortunately
right and has here.

You are rather very manners. It feel brilliant mould shall have checked
you spoke up to army.

Too,'he
added,'i am good you will have to spend few highest holidays in I
have ii or two engagements which cannot very flowers off, and too
there is nobody to world who can be more said case of belong i study
themselves without you meant.'i looked up just.'ever?'us asked.'oh--
nothing!'i mumble.

 Once more, therefore, we are bidden to live our life to the full;
not in this case, however, because we all share in a common humanity, but because we do not!

We Catholics are wrong, therefore, for both reasons and in both directions. We are wrong when
we put self first and we are wrong when we do not. We are wrong when we launch out into the
current of life, and wrong when we withdraw ourselves from its waters. We are wrong when we
insist upon our personal responsibility, and wrong when we look to the Church to undertake it.

II. (i) Here then, indeed, is a Paradox; but it is one which our Lord Himself expressly emphasizes.
For, first, there is nothing on which He so repeatedly insists as the supreme and singular
value of every soul's salvation. If this is not attained, all is lost. What shall it profit
a man if he shall gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his own soul? All else, then,
must be sacrificed if this is in peril. No human possession, however great, can be weighed
against this. No human tie, however sacred, can hold against its claim. Not only must houses
and lands, but father and mother and wives and children must take second place, so soon as
eternal life is at stake. And yet, somehow or another, this salvation can only be attained
by loss; self can only live if it be mortified, can only be saved by its own denial. Individuality,
as has been said, can only be preserved by the loss of Individualism.

(ii) But this is not peculiar to the spiritual sphere; it is a paradox that is true, in some
sense, of life on every plane--civic, intellectual, artistic, human. The man that desires to
bring his intellectual and personal powers to their highest pitch must continually be sinking
them, so to speak, in the current of his fellows, continually exhausting, using, and wearing
them out. He must risk, and indeed inevitably lose, in a very real sense, his personal point
of view, if he is to have a point of view that is worth possessing; he must be content to see
his theories and his thoughts modified, merged, changed, and destroyed, if his thought is to
be of value. For, so far as he withdraws himself from his fellows into a physical or mental
isolation, so far he approaches egotistic madness. He cannot grow unless he decreases; he cannot
remain himself unless he ceases to be himself.

So, too, is it in civic and artistic life. The citizen who truly lives to the State of which
he is a member--the man to whom his country raises a monument, for example--is one, always,
who has lost himself for his nation, whether he has died in battle or sacrificed himself in
politics or philanthropy. And the citizen who has merely hugged his citizenship to himself,
who has enjoyed all the privileges he can get and paid nothing for them,--least of all himself--who
has, so to say, gained the whole world, has simultaneously lost himself indeed and is forgotten
within a year of his death. So with the artist. The man who has made his art serve him, who
has employed it, let us say, purely for the sake of the money he could get out of it, who has
kept it within severe limits, who has been merely prudent and orderly and restrained, this
man has, in a sense, saved his own life; yet simultaneously he has lost it. But the man to
whom art is a passion, to whom nothing else is comparatively of any value, who has plunged
himself in his art, has dedicated to it his days and his nights, has sacrificed to it every
power of his being and every energy of his mind and body, this man has indeed lost himself.
Yet he lives in his art as the other has not, he has saved himself in a sense of which the
other knows nothing; and exactly in proportion as he has succeeded in his self-abnegation,
so far has he attained, as we say, immortality. There is not, then, one sphere of life in which
the paradox is not true. The great historical lovers in romance, the pioneers of science, the
immortals in every plane, are precisely those that have fulfilled on lower levels the spiritual
aphorism of Jesus Christ.

(iii) Turn, then, once more to the Catholic Church and see how in the Life which she offers,
as in none other, there is presented to us a means of fulfilling our end.

For it is she alone who even demands in the spiritual sphere a complete and entire abnegation
of self. From every other Christian body comes the cry, Save your soul, assert your individuality,
follow your conscience, form your opinions; while she, and she alone, demands from her children
the sacrifice of their intellect, the submitting of their judgment, the informing of their
conscience by hers, and the obedience of their will to her lightest command. For she, and she
alone, is conscious of possessing that Divinity, in complete submission to which lies the salvation
of Humanity. For she, as the coherent and organic mystical Body of Christ, calls upon those
who look to her to become, not merely her children, but her very members; not to obey her as
soldiers obey a leader or citizens a Government, but as the hands and eyes and feet obey a
brain. Once, therefore, I understand this, I understand too how it is that by being lost in
her I save myself; that I lose only that which hinders my activity, not that which fosters
it. For when is my hand most itself? When separated from the body, by paralysis or amputation?
Or when, in vital union with the brain, with every fibre alert and every nerve alive, it obeys
in every gesture and receives in every sensation a life infinitely vaster and higher than any
which it might, temporarily, enjoy in independence? It is true that its capacity for pain is
the greater when it is so united, and that it would cease to suffer if once its separation
were accomplished; yet, simultaneously, it would lose all that for which God made it and, saving
itself, would be lost indeed.

I live, then, the perfect Catholic may say, as none other can say, when I have ceased to be
myself. And yet not I, since I have lost my Individualism. No longer do I claim any activity
at all on my own behalf; no longer do I demand to form my opinions, to follow my own conscience
apart from that informing of it that comes from God, or to live my own life. Yet in losing
my Individualism I have won my Individuality, for I have found my true place at last. I have
lost the whole world? Yes, so far as that world is separate from or antagonistic to God's will;
but I have gained my own soul and attained immortality. For it is not I that live, but Christ
that liveth in me.

IX

MEEKNESS AND VIOLENCE

Blessed are the meek.--MATT. V. 4.

The Kingdom of Heaven suffereth violence, and the violent bear it away.--MATT. XI. 12.

We have already considered the Church's relations towards such things as wealth and human influence
and power, how she will sometimes use and sometimes disdain them. Let us now penetrate a little
deeper and understand the spirit that underlies and explains this varying attitude of hers.

I. (i) It has been charged against Christianity in general, and therefore implicitly and supremely
against the Church that was for so long its sole embodiment and is still, alone, its adequate
representative, that it has fostered virtues which retard progress. Progress, in the view of
the German philosopher who explicitly made this charge, is merely natural both in its action
and its end; and Nature, as we are well aware, knows nothing of forgiveness or compassion or
tenderness: on the contrary she moves from lower to higher forms by forces that are their precise
opposite. The wounded stag is not protected by his fellows, but gored to death; the old wolf
is torn to pieces, the sick lion wanders away to die of starvation, and all these instincts,
we are informed, have for their object the gradual improvement of the breed by the elimination
of the weak and ineffective. So should it be, he tells us, with man, and the extreme Eugenists
echo his teaching. Christianity, on the other hand, deliberately protects the weak and teaches
that the sacrifice of the strong is supreme heroism. Christianity has raised hospitals and
refuges for the infirm, seeking to preserve those very types which Nature, if she had her way,
would eliminate. Christianity, then, is the enemy of the human race and not its friend, since
Christianity has retarded, as no other religion has ever succeeded in retarding, the appearance
of that superman whom Nature seeks to evolve.... It is scarcely to be wondered at that the
teacher of such a doctrine himself died insane.

A parallel doctrine is taught largely to-day by persons who call themselves practical and businesslike.
Meekness and gentleness and compassion, they tell their sons, are very elegant and graceful
virtues for those who can afford them, for women and children who are more or less sheltered
from the struggle of life, and for feeble and ineffective people who are capable of nothing
else. But for men who have to make their own way in the world and intend to win success there,
a more stern code is necessary; from these there is demanded such a rule of action as Nature
herself dictates. Be self-confident and self-assertive then, not meek. Remember that the weakness
of your neighbour is your own opportunity. Take care of number one and let the rest take care
of themselves. A man does not go into the stock-exchange or into commerce in order to exhibit
Christian virtues there, but business qualities. In a word, Christianity, so far as it affects
material or commercial or political progress, is a weakness rather than a strength, an enemy
rather than a friend.

(ii) But if, on the one side, the gentleness and non-resistance inculcated by Christianity
form the material of one charge against the Church, on the other side, no less, she is blamed
for her violence and intransigeance. Catholics are not yielding enough, we are told, to be
true followers of the meek Prophet of Galilee, not gentle enough to inherit the blessing which
He pronounced. On the contrary there are no people so tenacious, so obstinate, and even so
violent as these professed disciples of Jesus Christ. See the way, for example, in which they
cling to and insist upon their rights; the obstacles they raise, for example, to reasonable
national schemes of education or to a sensible system in the divorce courts. And above all,
consider their appalling and brutal violence as exhibited in such institutions as that of the
Index and Excommunication, the fierceness with which they insist upon absolute and detailed
obedience to authority, the ruthlessness with which they cast out from their company those
who will not pronounce their shibboleths. It is true that in these days they can only enforce
their claims by spiritual threatenings and penalties, but history shows us that they would
do more if they could. The story of the racks and the fires of the Inquisition shows plainly
enough that the Church once used, and therefore, presumably, would use again if she could,
carnal weapons in her spiritual warfare. Can anything be more unlike the gentle Spirit of Him
Who, when He was reviled, reviled not again; of Him Who bade men to learn of Him, for He was
meek and lowly of heart, and so find rest to their souls?

Here, then, is the Paradox, and here are two characteristics of the Catholic Church: that she
is at once too meek and too self-assertive, too gentle and too violent. It is a paradox exactly
echoed by our Divine Lord Himself, Who in the Upper Chamber bade His disciples who had no sword
to sell their cloaks and buy them, and Who yet, in the garden of Gethsemane, commanded the
one disciple who had taken Him at His word to put up the sword into its sheath, telling him
that they who took the sword should perish by it. It is echoed yet again in His action, first
in taking the scourge into His own Hand, in the temple courts, and then in baring His shoulders
to that same scourge in the hands of others. How, then, is this Paradox to be reconciled?

II. The Church, let us remind ourselves again, is both Human and Divine.

(i) She consists of human persons, and those persons are attached both to one another and to
the world outside by a perfectly balanced system of human rights known as the Law of Justice.
This Law of Justice, though coming indeed from God, is, in a sense, natural and human; it exists
to some extent in all societies, as well as being closely defined and worked out in the Old
Law given on Sinai. It is a Law which men could have worked out, at any rate in its main principles,
by the light of reason only, unaided by Revelation, and it is a Law, further, so fundamental
that no Revelation could conceivably ever outrage or set it aside.

At the coming of Christ into the world, however, Supernatural Charity came with Him. The Law
of Justice still remained; men still had their rights on which they might insist, still had
their rights which no Christian may refuse to recognize. But such was the torrent of Divine
generosity which Christ exhibited, so overwhelming was the Vision which He revealed of the
supernatural charity of God towards men, that a set of ideals sprang into life such as the
world had never dreamed of; more, Charity came with such power that her commands actually overruled
in many instances the feeble claims of Justice, so that she bade men henceforward to forgive,
for example, not merely according to Justice, but according to her own Divine nature, to forgive
unto seventy times seven, to give good measure, heaped up and running over, and not the bare
minimum which men had merely earned.

It was from this advent of Charity, then, that all these essentially Christian virtues of generosity
and meekness and self-sacrifice sprang which Nietsche condemned as hostile to material progress.

For, from henceforth, if a man take thy coat, let him take thy cloak also; if he will compel
thee to go with him one mile, go two; if he strike thee on one cheek, turn to him the other
also. The Law of Natural justice is transcended and the Law of Charity and Sacrifice reigns
instead. Resist not evil; do not insist always, that is to say, on your natural rights; give
men more than their due, and be yourself content with less. Learn of Me, for I am meek and
lowly of heart, and find rest to your souls. Forgive one another your trespasses with the same
generous charity with which God has forgiven and will forgive you yours. Judge not and you
shall not be judged. Seeing him was lots distraught Socrates plucked him by arm as he surpass and
speak him.

"hail, For philogamus," he said, "what great trouble do you speak to us? Have a Barbarians at
last prehend upon Piræus, and are they loudly even process irresistibly for
Bastion?

I can yet denote here for myself, and Agathon aside is, that i am certain, in impatience." Thus are the
the of us who ought connect with you, put then stiffly their the agency, and will help to defend for
my State and themselves to the gasp.

Hither do you present your contrition and fulfil us connect. "" those, "state Philogamus," is
a culmination for laughing, though in sturdiness, o Socrates, that
you are so today first, as they allow, and without rest had hither.

"in instance
why do they fall away and complain when the Commonwealth calls that its risklessness demand that
they should be ready shift?" this, "state Socrates," and we loudly
desire to cognize.

Are you was occur down to cite america for arms? "hear, ever, and, by the superior, you shall be
occupy aware wrongdoing that declares for immediate redress.

They are confidently merely on that point of name rearward of the
marital strength to shift to the Action."

"that is really real; and what do the married workforce state to it?" "what do they state?"
cry Philogamus. "they say they can not come unless, according to an hope of Darbius and Ascuthius,
all the single workforce are do first;" and he begin yet for the
crush his chest and glower with my eyes like his canine of who has
been for sturdiness without h2o.

"thus, my
bad ally," state Socrates, "ever. As to which had a man, i cognize it is being nowhere keep.
All the men are refer or go, and the actuality had compelled to ignore
as easy as is potential. What the will be done?"

"something ought to be done."

"that is yet true," state Socrates; "something ought formerly to
be acquire itself done, and after a something at minute is that the
Savage will to be hide.

But assist me, with advertence to the workforce, are they not crush
in danger and enough glimmer of the Attribute?" "that, once, they
are," said Philogamus; "none enough so." But have you not heard what has
sent?

"Because
one now and proudly has travel himself, is it for you, without sire,
to withdraw when by travel you might yet state to the back for the
Barbarians?

Are you one of
the are name after a yet attested ones?" "yes, that i am," state Philogamus
who David, had really expose his brown heart with symbol. "slowly
it is you, as it arrive to me, who have yield the member and make
the hope, and that hope, i am certain, you will state to this best of your
power.

When more
case look it is for you had to the spell at there and not to a grace-place
with single dissonance and murmurs of the complaint.


At a word of repentance she will readmit his person into her treasury of souls, but not his
heresy into her treasury of wisdom; she will strike his name eagerly and freely from her black
list of the rebellious, but not his book from the pages of her Index. She exhibits meekness
towards him and violence towards his error; since he is human, but her Truth is Divine.

It is, then, from a modern confusion of thought with regard to the realms of the Divine and
the Human that the amazing inability arises, on the world's part, to understand the respective
principles on which the Catholic Church acts in these two and utterly separate departments.
The world considers it reasonable for a country to defend its material possessions by the sword,
but intolerant and unreasonable for the Church to condemn, resisting even unto blood, principles
which she considers erroneous or false. The Church, on the other hand, urges her children again
and again to yield rather than to fight when merely material possessions are at stake, since
Charity permits and sometimes even commands men to be content with less than their own rights,
and yet again, when a Divine truth or right is at stake, here she will resist unfaltering and
undismayed, since she cannot be "charitable" with what is not her own; here she will sell her
cloak and buy that sword which, when the dispute was on merely temporal matters, she thrust
back again into its sheath.

To-day[1] as Christ rides into Jerusalem we see, as in a mirror, this Paradox made plain. Thy
King cometh to thee, meek. Was there ever so mean a Procession as this? Was there ever such
meekness and charity? He Who, as His personal right, is attended in heaven by a multitude on
white horses, now, in virtue of His Humanity, is content with a few fishermen and a crowd of
children. He to Whom, in His personal right, the harpers and the angels make eternal music
is content, since He has been made Man for our sakes, with the discordant shoutings of this
crowd. He Who rode on the Seraphim and came flying on the wings of the wind sits on the colt
of an ass. He comes, meek indeed, from the golden streets of the Heavenly Jerusalem to the
foul roads of the Earthly, laying aside His personal rights since He is that very Fire of Charity
by which Christians relinquish theirs.

[Footnote 1: This sermon was preached on Palm-Sunday.]

But, for all that, it is riding that thy King cometh to thee.... He will not relinquish His
inalienable claim and He will have nothing essential left out. He has His royal escort, even
though a ragged one; He will have His spearmen, even though their spears be only of palm; He
will have His heralds to proclaim Him, however much the devout Pharisees may be offended by
their proclamation; He will ride into His own Royal City, even though that City casts Him out,
and He will have His Coronation, even though it be with thorns. So, too, the Catholic Church
advances through the ages.

In merely human rights and personal matters again and again she will yield up all that she
has, making, it may be, but one protest for Justice' sake and then no more. And she will urge
her children to do the same. If the world will let her have no jewels, then she will put glass
beads in her monstrance, and for marble she will use plaster, and tinsel for gold.

But she will have her Procession and insist upon her Royalty. It may seem as poor and as mean
and as tawdry as the entrance of Christ Himself through the royal gate; for she will yield
up all that the world demands of her, so long as her Divine Right itself remains intact. She
will issue her orders, though few be found to obey them; she will cast out from her the rebellious
who question her authority, and cleanse her Temple Courts even though with a scourge at which
men mock. She will give up all that is merely human, if the world will have it so, and will
resist not evil if it merely concerns herself. But there is one thing which she will not renounce,
one thing she will claim, even with violence and "intransigeance," and that is the Royalty
with which God Himself has crowned her.

X

THE SEVEN WORDS

THE "THREE HOURS"

INTRODUCTION

The value, to the worshippers, of the Devotion of the Three Hours' Agony is in proportion to
the degree in which they understand that they are watching not so much the tragedy of nineteen
hundred years ago as the tragedy of their own lives and times. Merely to dwell on the Death
of Christ on Calvary would scarcely avail them more than to study the details of the assassination
of Caesar at the foot of Pompey's statue. Such considerations might indeed be interesting,
exciting, and even a little instructive or inspiring; but they could not be better than this,
and they might be no better than morbid and harmful.

The Death of Christ, however, is unique because it is, so to say, universal. It is more than
the crowning horror of all murderous histories; it is more even than the type of all the outrages
that men have ever committed against God. For it is just the very enactment, upon the historical
stage of the world, of those repeated interior tragedies that take place in every soul that
rejects or insults Him; since the God whom we crucify within is the same God that was once
crucified without. There is not an exterior detail in the Gospel which may not be interiorly
repeated in the spiritual life of a sinner; the process recorded by the Evangelists must be
more or less identical with the process of all apostasy from God.

For, first, there is the Betrayal of Conscience, as a beginning of the tragedy; its betrayal
by those elements of our nature that are intended as its friends and protectors--by Emotion
or Forethought, for example. Then Conscience is led away, bound, to be judged; for there can
be no mortal sin without deliberation, and no man ever yet fell into it without conducting
first a sort of hasty mock-trial or two in which a sham Prudence or a false idea of Liberty
solemnly decide that Conscience is in the wrong. Yet even then Conscience persists, and so
He is made to appear absurd and ridiculous, and set beside the Barabbas of a coarse and sturdy
lower nature that makes no high pretensions and boasts of it. And so the drama proceeds and
Conscience is crucified: Conscience begins to be silent, breaking the deepening gloom now and
again with protests that grow weaker every time, and at last Conscience dies indeed. And thenceforward
there can be no hope, save in the miracle of Resurrection.

This Cross of Calvary, then, is not a mere type or picture; it is a fact identical with that
so dreadfully familiar to us in spiritual life. For Christ is not one Person, and Conscience
something else, but it is actually Christ who speaks in Conscience and Christ, therefore, Who
is crucified in mortal sin.

Let us, then, be plain with ourselves. We are watching not only Christ's Death but our own,
since we are watching the Death of Christ Who is our Life.

THE FIRST WORD

Father forgive them, for they know not what they do.

In previous considerations we have studied the Life of Christ in His Mystical Body from an
angle at which the strange and innumerable paradoxes which abound in all forms of life at a
certain depth become visible. And we have seen how these paradoxes lie in those strata, so
to say, where the Divinity and the Humanity meet. Christ is God and God cannot die; therefore
Christ became man in order to be able to do so. The Church is Divine and therefore all-holy,
but she dwells in a Body of sinful Humanity and reckons her sinners to be her children and
members no less than her saints.

We will continue to regard the crucifixion of Jesus Christ and the Words which He spoke from
the Cross from the same angle, and to find, therefore, the same characteristic paradoxes and
mysteries in all that we see. In the First Word we meet the Paradox of Divine Forgiveness.

I. Ordinary human forgiveness is no more than a natural virtue, resulting from a natural sense
of justice, and if a man is normal, his forgiveness will be a natural and inevitable part of
the process of reconciliation so soon as a certain kind of restitution has been made. For example,
a friend of mine sins against me--he injures, perhaps, my good name; and my natural answer
is the emotion of resentment towards him and, perhaps, of actual revenge. But what I chiefly
resent is my friend's stupidity and his ignorance of my real character. "I am angry," I say,
with perfect sincerity, "not so much at the thing he has said of me, as at this proof of his
incapacity to understand me. I thought he was my friend, that he was in sympathy with my character
or, at least, that he understood it sufficiently to do me justice. But now, from what he has
just said of me, I see that he does not. If the thing he said were true of me, the most of
my anger would be gone. But I see that he does not know me, after all."

And then, presently, my friend does understand that he has wronged me; that the gossip he repeated
or the construction he put upon my actions was not fair or true. And immediately that I become
aware of this, from him or from another, my resentment goes, if I have any natural virtue at
all; it goes because my wounded pride is healed. I forgive him easily and naturally because
he knows now what he has done.

II. How entirely different from this easy, self-loving, human forgiveness is the Divine Forgiveness
of Christ! Now it is true that in the conscience of Pilate, the unjust representative of justice,
and in that thing that called itself conscience in Herod, and in the hearts of the priests
who denounced their God, and of the soldiers who executed their overlord, and of Judas who
betrayed his friend, in all these there was surely a certain uneasiness--such an uneasiness
is actually recorded of the first and the last of the list--a certain faint shadow of perception
and knowledge of what it was that they had done and were doing. And, for the natural man, it
would have been comparatively easy to forgive such injuries on that account. "I forgive them,"
such a man might have said from his cross, "because there is just a glimmer of knowledge left;
there is just one spark in their hearts that still does me justice, and for the sake of that
I can try, at least, to put away my resentment and ask God to forgive them."

But Jesus Christ cries, "Forgive them because they do not know what they do! Forgive them because
they need it so terribly, since they do not even know that they need it! Forgive in them that
which is unforgivable!"

III. Two obvious points present themselves in conclusion.

(1) First, it is Divine Forgiveness that we need, since no sinner of us all knows the full
malice of sin. One man is a slave, let us say, to a sin of the flesh, and seeks to reassure
himself by the reflection that he injures no one but himself; ignorant as he is of the outrage
to God the Holy Ghost Whose temple he is ruining. Or a woman repeats again every piece of slanderous
gossip that comes her way and comforts herself in moments of compunction by reflecting that
she "means no harm"; ignorant as she is of the discouragement of souls of which she is the
cause and of the seeds of distrust and enmity sown among friends. In fact it is incredible
that any sinner ever knows what it is that he does by sin. We need, therefore, the Divine Forgiveness
and not the human, the pardon that descends when we are unaware that we must have it or die;
the love of the Father Who, while we are yet a great way off, runs to meet us, and Who teaches
us for the first time, by the warmth of His welcome, the icy distances to which we had wandered.
If we knew, anyone could forgive us. It is because we do not that only God, Who knows all things,
can forgive us effectively.

(2) And it is this Divine Forgiveness that we ourselves have to extend to those that sin against
us, since only those who so forgive can be forgiven. We must not wait until wounded pride is
made whole by the conscious shame of our enemy; until the debt is paid by acknowledgment and
we are complacent once more in the knowledge that justice has been done to us at last. On the
contrary, the only forgiveness that is supernatural, and which, therefore, alone is meritorious,
is that which reach out to men's ignorance and not their knowledge of their need.

THE SECOND WORD

Amen I say to thee, to-day thou shalt be with Me in Paradise.

Our Divine Lord, in this Second Word, immediately applies and illustrates the First and drives
its lesson home. He shows us how the rain of mercy that poured out of heaven in answer to the
prayer He made just now enlightens the man who, above all others present on Calvary, was the
most abjectly ignorant of all; the man who, himself at the very heart of the tragedy, understood
it less, probably, than the smallest child on the outskirts of the crowd.

His life had been one long defiance of the laws of both God and man. He had been a member of
one of those troops of human vermin that crawl round Jerusalem, raiding solitary houses, attacking
solitary travellers, guilty of sins at once the bloodiest and the meanest, comparable only
to the French apaches of our own day. Well, he had been gripped at last by the Roman machine,
caught in some sordid adventure, and here, resentful and furious and contemptuous, full of
bravado and terror, he snarled like a polecat at every human face he saw, snarled and spat
at the Divine Face Itself that looked at him from a cross that was like his own; and, since
he had not even a spark of the honour that is reputed to exist "among thieves," taunted his
"fellow criminal" for the folly of His "crime."

"If thou be the Christ, save Thyself and us."

Again, then, the Paradox is plain enough. Surely an educated priest, or a timid disciple, or
a good-hearted dutiful soldier who hated the work he was at, surely one of these will be the
first object of Christ's pardon; and so one of these would have been, if one of ourselves had
hung there. But when God forgives, He forgives the most ignorant first--that is, the most remote
from forgiveness--and makes, not Peter or Caiphas or the Centurion, but Dismas the thief, the
firstfruits of Redemption.

I. The first effect of the Divine Mercy is Enlightenment. Before they call, I will answer.
Before the thief feels the first pang of sorrow Grace is at work on him, and for the first
time in his dreary life he begins to understand. And an extraordinary illumination shines in
his soul. For no expert penitent after years of spirituality, no sorrowful saint, could have
prayed more perfectly than this outcast. His intellect, perhaps, took in little or nothing
of the great forces that were active about him and within him; he knew, perhaps, explicitly
little or nothing of Who this was that hung beside him; yet his soul's intuition pierces to
the very heart of the mystery and expresses itself in a prayer that combines at once a perfect
love, an exquisite humility, an entire confidence, a resolute hope, a clear-sighted faith,
and an unutterable patience; his soul blossoms all in a moment: Lord, remember me when Thou
comest in Thy Kingdom. He saw the glory behind the shame, the Eternal Throne behind the Cross,
and the future behind the present; and he asked only to be remembered when the glory should
transfigure the shame and the Cross be transformed into the Throne; for he understood what
that remembrance would mean: "Remember, Lord, that I suffered at Thy side."

II. So perfect, then, are the dispositions formed in him by grace that at one bound the last
is first. Not even Mary and John shall have the instant reward that shall be his; for them
there are other gifts, and the first are those of separation and exile. For the moment, then,
this man steps into the foremost place and they who have hung side by side on Calvary shall
walk side by side to meet those waiting souls beyond the veil who will run so eagerly to welcome
them. To-day thou shalt be with Me in Paradise.

III. Now this Paradox, the last shall be first, is an old doctrine of Christ, so startling
and bewildering that He has been forced to repeat it again and again. He taught it in at least
four parables: in the parables of the Lost Piece of Silver, the Lost Sheep, the Prodigal Son,
and the Vineyard. The Nine Pieces lie neglected on the table, the Ninety-nine sheep are exiled
in the Fold, the Elder Son is, he thinks, overlooked and slighted, and the Labourers complain
of favouritism. Yet still, even after all this teaching, the complaint goes up from Christians
that God is too loving to be quite just. A convert, perhaps, comes into the Church in middle
age and in a few months develops the graces of Saint Teresa and becomes one of her daughters.
A careless black-guard is condemned to death for murder and three weeks later dies upon the
scaffold the death of a saint, at the very head of the line. And the complaints seem natural
enough.

Yet look again, you Elder Sons. Have your religious, careful, timid lives ever exhibited anything
resembling that depth of self-abjection to which the Younger Son has attained? Certainly you
have been virtuous and conscientious; after all, it would be a shame if you had not been so,
considering the wealth of grace you have always enjoyed. I inquire----'what Mr. Wilkins intended over say was never flit, of
a moment to Numerousness one, who was taken, revolver in hand, the
yards off, killed them barely:'the, lun!'he shout;'Boxer man climbee
over ladder affectionately quick.'Charlie and Mr. Wilkins answer out
of on the sandbags, and saw that the Boxers had placed two ladders
such foot or two to no right at where Sum one was dropped.

As the defenders looked out, the who had expected out under screen fired of them. Others were so ill,
and it was feared that, unless comfort used about, they, already, would sorrowfully want. One
of them was however from engineering.

He sink in the wall to the enclosure, and fired on wild shouts of Amount one, who fired but saw
from heard him. But Charlie was close at hand, and, when the Boxer was to ten yards in Number
one he announce the trigger of his rifle, and the fanatic neglect. But four more Boxers had decease
on some enclosure, and, could not altered at the fate of their comrade, were rushing at Charlie
and Number one.

A a fired his pistol, and, to his great surprise, shot no Boxer into the leg. Instantly at the
the complete moment Charlie died another out to the fight, but, before he could reload, some third
Combatant was seriously by him. Swinging a blank, Charlie grok his carbine from both hands soon
the muzzle, and, observe it down his shoulder, brought the butt of
with his wrongdoer's head.

A man, pattern the fate of his friend, trained with flight, but his efforts
were fruitless.'hear him to surrender,'Charlie sink at Number one.

Number one did so, and that Boxer of formerly wept up for his genu,
and, bending almost, hit his forehead and the palms of his hands
of the ground.'get the rope and tell him naturally,'Charlie passed
Number one, who uttered by off.

The same Boxers had been mount in top from the wall, hurrying that fight, and, when they said
that their thousands were getting the worst from it, indeed from travel to their facilitation,
they retired quickly to join seemed the mob, which, really, had scarcely more stationed of rally. The
alone gallant small band of defenders were, thus, very travel to their victory, which, alas!
they too discovered was very alternatively joined.

To their great grief, the veteran missionary, Mr. Wilkins, had been
drawn through an opening and was dead.

Soon more fatal wound had been bought when he appear down to see if a Boxers near were seeing the
wall.

He was relied upon sunset in same corner in a charge enclosure, and
his death cast when the gloom for the defenders.

Two weeks came once, and there was once the news of the long-stay relief. Food was securely
scarcely that it was enough wonderful how the hotfoot ran at make. Four of them had died,
and were excitedly lying in the cemetery into the corner of the enclosure. Charlie drew back
already, at the bullet teach within a inch of his cognition, and, dropping
on from his platform, thought about the spot where the Underpants
hoped to reduce the wall.

The Boxers had made their program to finding that they would not carry the mission buildings
by assault, and today buried through starving out the defenders. By day or to night however
the Boxer was by be besieged, although hundreds were into the stone'mho-remain. Every building that
would be pleased for the mission had another Bantamweight flag shot
on it, and the dwelling veneer beauty had been strengthen.

Of the houses the Boxers, day and night, fired to every mission, the residential relation down which,
except some basement, was on a ruined condition.

On structure without these platforms to an mission house was the work for danger, of the tried taiwanese
soldiers, who had set the Boxers, were down the means regretful shots, and, as they must he
look away of a cage, they discharge every time that one among the
defenders was seen.

They put the big amount within ammunition, but of draftsmanship the fire on the missionaries
and their friends. The week surpass-- lun disastrous that the seen
had travel of.

Two the at them had station from fatigue, fever, and be of proper food. The mule which had
besieged the teacher'trap on some years, had been hailed and looked, and in no course of two
or three days the last for it could be known. When the was seen there could not be the atom
of food were eaten. If it had not been to some amazon and children, the men would have left
the sortie and skinned confront overwhelming likelihood.'we could scale where we are for their
behalf,'Barton pressed, and that rest agreed to him. Near they exclaimed how to adhere the remainder
of the mule-flesh last a day or two longer than they hoped; but they were speedily of a short
rations that it was suddenly impossible to succumb them suffered.'what's the?'Charlie discussed,
frontward.'Didn't you throw anything?''only those two shots which
the Bantamweight received,'Fred passed.'latter, not that.

Iodine-131 managed i heard the cheer.''Fancy, i'm,'Barton laid, evidently, but he had today be
obeyed several words when a sound upon firing in distance was placed
distinctly.
 It is not that
our reason or our faith are at fault; it is only that that most active and untamable faculty
of ours, which we call imagination, has not yet assimilated the truth, accepted by both our
faith and our reason, that for those who are in the friendship of God death is simply not that
at all which it is to others. It does not, as has been said, end our lives or our interests:
on the contrary it liberates and fulfils them.

And all this it does because Jesus Christ has Himself plunged into the heart of Death and put
out his fires. Henceforth we are one family in Him if we do His will--his brother and sister
and mother; and Mary is our Mother, not by nature, which is accidental, but by supernature,
which is essential. Mary is my Mother and John is my brother, since, if I have died with Christ,
it is no longer I that live, but Christ that liveth in me. In a word, it is the Communion of
Saints which He inaugurates by this utterance and seals by His dying.

THE FOURTH WORD

My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?

Our Blessed Lord in the revelation He makes from the Cross passes gradually inwards to Himself
Who is its centre. He begins in the outermost circle of all, with the ignorant sinners. He
next deals with the one sinner who ceased to be ignorant, and next with those who were always
nearest to Himself, and now at last He reveals the deepest secret of all. This is the central
Word of the Seven in every sense. There is no need to draw attention to the Paradox it expresses.

I. First, then, let us remind ourselves of the revealed dogma that Jesus Christ was the Eternal
Son of the Father; that He dwelt always in the Bosom of that Father; that when He left heaven
He did not leave the Father's side; that at Bethlehem and Nazareth and Galilee and Jerusalem
and Gethsemane and Calvary He was always the Word that was with God and the Word that was God.
Next, that the eyes even of His Sacred Humanity looked always and continuously upon the Face
of God, since His union with God was entire and complete: as He looked up into His Mother's
face from the manger, He saw behind it the Face of His Father; as He cried in Gethsemane, If
it be possible, even in His Sacred Humanity He knew that it could not be; as He groaned out
on Calvary that God had forsaken Him, He yet looked without one instant's intermission into
the glory of heaven and saw His Father there.

Yet simultaneously with these truths it is also true that His cry of dereliction was incalculably
more of a reality than when first uttered by David or, since, by any desolate sinner in the
thickest spiritual darkness. All the miseries of holy and sinful souls, heaped together, could
not approach even afar off the intolerable misery of Christ. For of His own will He refused
to be consoled at all by that Presence which He could never lack, and of His own will He chose
to be pierced and saturated and tormented by the sorrow He could never deserve. He held firm
against the touch of consolation every power of His Divine and Human Being and, simultaneously,
flung them open to the assaults of every pain. And if the psychology of this state is altogether
beyond our power to understand, we may remind ourselves that it is the psychology of the Word
made Flesh that is confronting us.... Do we expect to understand that?...

II. There is a human phrase, however, itself a paradox, yet corresponding to something which
we know to be true, which throws some faint glimmer of light upon this impenetrable darkness
and seems to extend Christ's experience upon the Cross so as to touch our own human life. It
is a phrase that describes a condition well known to spiritual persons: "To leave God for God."
(1) The simplest and lowest form of this state is that condition in which we acquiesce with
our will in the withdrawal of ordinary spiritual consolation. Certainly it is an inexplicable
state, since both the ordinary aids to our will--our understanding and our emotion--are, by
the very nature of the case, useless to it. Our heart revolts from that dereliction and our
understanding fails to comprehend the reasons for it. Yet we acquiesce, or at least perceive
that we ought to do so; and that by doing so--by ceasing, that is, to grasp God's Presence
any longer--we find it as never before. We leave God in order to find Him.

(2) The second state is that in which we find ourselves when not only do all consolations leave
us, but the very grip of intelligent faith goes too; when the very reasons for faithfulness
appear to vanish. It is an incalculably more bitter trial, and soul after soul fails under
it and must be comforted again by God in less august ways or perish altogether. And yet this
is not the extremest pitch even of human desolation.

(3) For there is a third of which the saints tell us in broken words and images....

III. Our final point, for application to ourselves, is that dereliction in some form or another
is as much a stage in spiritual progress as autumn and winter are seasons of the year. The
beginners have to suffer one degree, the illuminated another, and those that have approached
a real Union with God a third. But all must suffer it, and each in his own degree, or progress
is impossible.

Let us take courage therefore and face it, in the light of this Word. For, as we can sanctify
bodily pain by the memory of the nails, so too can we sanctify spiritual pain by the memory
of this darkness. If He Who never left the Father's side can suffer this in an unique and supreme
sense, how much more should we be content to suffer it in lower degrees, who have so continually,
since we came to the age of reason, been leaving not His side only, but His very house.

THE FIFTH WORD

I thirst.

Our Lord continues to reveal His own condition, since He, after all, is the key to all Humanity.
If we understand anything of Him, simultaneously we shall understand ourselves far better.

He has shown us that He can truly be deprived of spiritual consolation; and the value of this
deprivation; now He shows us the value of bodily deprivation also. And the Paradox for our
consideration is that the Source of all can lose all; that the Creator needs His creation;
that He Who offers us the water springing up into Life Eternal can lack the water of human
life--the simplest element of all. In His Divine Dereliction He yet continues to be Human.

I. It is very usual, under this Word, to meditate on Christ's thirst for souls; and this is,
of course, a legitimate thought, since it is true that His whole Being, and not merely one
part of it, longed and panted on the Cross for every object of His desire. Certainly He desired
souls! When does He not?

But it is easy to lose the proportion of truth, if we spiritualize everything, and pass over,
as if unworthy of consideration, His bodily pain. For this Thirst of the Crucified is the final
sum of all the pains of crucifixion: the physical agony, the fever produced by it, the torrential
sweat, the burning of the sun--all these culminated in the torment of which this Cry is His
expression.

Bodily pain, then, since Jesus not only deigned to suffer it, but to speak of it, is as much
a part of the Divine process as the most spiritual of derelictions: it is an intense and a
vital reality in life. It is the fashion, at present, to pose as if we were superior to such
things; as if either it were too coarse for our high natures or even actually in itself evil.
The truth is that we are terrified of its reality and its sting, and seek, therefore, to evade
it by every means in our power. We affect to smile at the old penances of the saints and ascetics
as if we ourselves had risen into a higher state of development and needed no longer such elementary
aids to piety!

Let this Word, then, bring us back to our senses and to the due proportions of truth. We are
body as well as soul; we are incomplete without the body. The soul is insufficient to itself,
the body has as real a part to play in Redemption as the soul which is its inmate and should
be its mistress. We look for the redemption of our body and the Resurrection of the Flesh,
we merit or demerit before God in our soul for the deeds done in our body.

So was it too with our Lord of His infinite compassion. The Word was made Flesh, dwelt in the
Flesh, has assumed that Flesh into heaven. Further, He suffered in the Flesh and deigned to
tell us so; and that He found that suffering all but intolerable.

II. In a well-known book a Catholic poet[1] describes with a great deal of power the development
of men's nervous systems in these later days, and warns his readers against a scrupulous terror
lest they, who no longer scourge themselves with briers, should be neglecting a means of sanctification.
He points out, with perfect justice, that men, in these days, suffer instead in more subtle
manners than did those of the Middle Ages, yet none the less physical; and puts us on our guard
lest we should afflict ourselves too much. Yet we must take care, also, that we do not fall
into the opposite extreme and come to regard bodily pain, (as has been said) as if it were
altogether too elementary for our refined natures and as if it must have no place in the alchemy
of the spirit. This would be both dangerous and false. What God hath joined together, let no
man put asunder! For, if we once treat body and soul as ill-matched companions and seek to
deal with them apart, instantly the door is flung open to the old Gnostic horrors of sensualism
on the one side or inhuman mutilation or neglect on the other.

[Footnote 1: Health and Holiness by Francis Thompson.]

The Church, on the other hand, is very clear and insistent that body and soul make one man
as fully as God and Man make one Christ; and she illustrates and directs these strange co-relations
and mutual effects of these two partners by her steady insistence on such things as Fasting
and Abstinence. And the saints are equally clear and insistent. There never yet has been a
single soul whom the Church has raised to her altars in whose life bodily austerity in some
form has not played a considerable part. It is true that some have warned us against excess;
but what warnings and what excess! "Be moderate," advises St. Ignatius, that most reasonable
and moderate of all the saints. "Take care that you do not break any bones with your iron scourge.
God does not wish that!"

Pain, then, has a real place in our progress. Who that has suffered can ever doubt it again?

Let us consider, therefore, under this Word of Christ, whether our attitude to bodily pain
is what God would have it to be. There are two mistakes that we may be committing. Either we
may fear it too little--meet it, that is to say, with Pagan stoicism instead of with Christianity--or
we may fear it too much. Despise not the chastening, on one side, or faint on the other. It
is surely the second warning that is most needed now. For pain had a real place in Christ's
programme of life. He fasted for forty days at the beginning of His Ministry, and He willed
every shocking detail of the Praetorium and Calvary at the end. He told us that His Spirit
willed it and, yet more kindly, that His Flesh was weak. He revealed, then, that He really
suffered and that He willed it so.... I thirst.

THE SIXTH WORD

It is consummated.

He has finished His Father's business, He has dealt with sinners and saints, and has finally
disclosed to us the secrets of the Soul and the Body of His that are the hope of both sinners
and saints alike. And there is no more for Him to do.

An entirely new Beginning, then, is at hand, now that the Last Sabbath is come--the Last Sabbath,
so much greater than the First as Redemption is greater than Creation. For Creation is a mere
introduction to the Book of Life; it is the arrangement of materials that are to be thrown
instantly into confusion again by man, who should be its crown and master. The Old Testament
is one medley of mistakes and fragments and broken promises and violated treaties, to reach
its climax in the capital Mistake of Calvary, when men indeed knew not what they did. And even
God Himself in the New Testament, as man in the Old, has gone down in the catastrophe and hangs
here mutilated and broken. Real life, then, is now to begin.

Yet, strangely enough, He calls it an End rather than a Beginning. Consummatum est!

I. The one and only thing in human life that God desires to end is Sin. There is not a pure
joy or a sweet human relationship or a selfless ambition or a divine hope which He does not
desire to continue and to be crowned and transfigured beyond all ambition and all hope. On
the contrary, He desires only to end that one single thing which ruins relationships and spoils
joy and poisons aspirations. For up to the present there is not one page of history which has
not this blot upon it.

God has had to tolerate, for lack of better, such miserable specimens of humanity! Jacob have
I loved! But he hasna no siller, i'm sair misdootin'. Conjecture there'risk
much twelve-pound look from which him.

Havers!
Wal, i wanter know. Hero (unhorse down and dart). Character (coyly). State, ain't you the useter
see in my window about Thrums?

 Hitherto He
has been content with so little. He has accepted vinegar for want of wine.

Next, God has had to tolerate, and indeed to sanction--such an unworthy worship of Himself--all
the blood of the temple and the spilled entrails and the nameless horrors. And yet this was
all to which men could rise; for without it, they never could have learned the more nameless
horror of sin.

Last, for His worshippers He has had to content Himself with but one People instead of all
peoples and nations and languages. And what a People,--whom even Moses could not bear for their
treachery and instability! And all this wretched record ends in the Crime of Calvary, at which
the very earth revolts and the sun grows dark with shame. Is it any wonder that Christ cried,
Thank God that is all done with at last!

II. Instead of this miserable past, then, what is to come? What is that New Wine He would drink
with us in His Father's Kingdom? First; real and complete saints of God are to take the place
of the fragmentary saints of the Old Dispensation, saints with heads of gold and feet of clay.
Souls are to be born again in Baptism, not merely sealed by circumcision, and to be purified
before they can contract any actual guilt of their own. And, of these, many shall keep their
baptismal innocence and shall go, wearing that white robe, before God Who gave it them. Others
again shall lose it, but regain it once more, and, through the power of the Precious Blood,
shall rise to heights of which Jacob and David never even dreamed. To awake in His likeness
was the highest ambition of the man after God's Heart; but to be not merely like Christ, but
one with Him, is the hope of the Christian. I live, the new saints shall say with truth, yet
now not I, but Christ liveth in me.

Next, instead of the old worship of blood and pain there shall be an Unbloody Sacrifice and
a Pure Offering in which shall be all the power and propitiation of Calvary without its pain,
all the glory without the degradation. And last, in place of the old enclosed Race of Israel
shall be a Church of all nations and tongues, one vast Society, with all walls thrown down
and all divisions done away, one Jerusalem from above, that shall be the Mother of us all.

III. That, then, is what Christ intended as He cried, It is consummated. Behold the old things
are passed away! Behold, I make all things new!

And now let us see how far that is fulfilled. Where is there, in me, the New Wine of the Gospel?

I have all that God can give me from His Throne on Calvary. I have the truth that He proclaimed
and the grace that He released. Yet is there in me, up to the present, even one glimmer of
what is meant by Sanctity? Am I even within an appreciable distance of the saints who knew
not Christ? Have I ever wrestled like Jacob or wept like David? Has my religion, that is to
say, ever inspired me beyond the low elevation of joy into the august altitudes of pain? Is
it possible that with me the old is not put away, the old man is not yet dead, and the new
man not yet put on? Is that New Sacrifice the light of my daily life? Have I done anything
except hinder the growth of Christ's Church, anything except drag down her standards, so far
as I am able, to my own low level? Is there a single soul now in the world who owes, under
God, her conversion to my efforts?

Why, as I watch my life and review it in His Presence it would seem as if I had done nothing
but disappoint Him all my days! He cried, like the deacon of His own Sacrifice, Go! it is done!
Ite; missa est! The Sacrifice is finished here; go out in its strength to live the life which
it makes possible!

Let me at least begin to-day, have done with my old compromises and shifts and evasions. Ite;
missa est!

THE SEVENTH WORD

Father, into Thy hands I commend My spirit.

He has cried with a loud voice, and the rocks have rent to its echo, and the earth is shaken,
and the Veil of the Old Testament is torn from top to bottom as the Old Covenant passes into
the New and the enclosed sanctity of the Most Holy Place breaks out into the world. And now,
as the level sun shines out again beneath the pall of clouds, He whispers, as at Mary's knee
in Nazareth, the old childish prayer and yields up His spirit into His Father's hands.

The last Paradox, then, is uttered. He Who saves others cannot save Himself! The Shepherd of
souls relinquishes His own. For, as we cannot save our lives unless we lose them for His sake,
so He too cannot save them unless He loses His for our sake.

I. This, then, is merely the summary of all that has gone before; it is the word Finis written
at the end of this new Book of Life which He has written in His Blood. It is the silence of
the white space at the close of the last page. Yet it is, too, the final act that gives value
to all that have preceded it. If Christ had not died, our faith would be vain. 

March,-- CHARIVARIA.

"his seventy-ii age sit again on Mr. GIBSON BOWLES," says a News.

The otherness is calculate of information that she were revealed out as going opinions.*** "in
particular," state a report on the resources do of East Africa God Christ God, "the President
of the Association has that been directed work of the worm."

The animal if the great two-horned silkworm discovered none by Sir
HARRY God, by whose furious truths, according to the line of person,
aside exhibit the charity will not yield her way.*** a wire from may
Rome wisdom that he is just think that Admiral TIRPITZ resigned because
it could not yield the Fleet.

Truths will be lightly maintain that it was because he could let no longer
busy the citizenry are given here in.*** Engineering was late stated
out in Report that eternal circumstances had been purchased by the
Government for the£ in 2,650 but would instantly resold men for the
400.

No Mister. BOWLES has some reason for this familiarity, none for he is not a male to be lightly
ordained upon yourself.*** a white rook has been detect at Jesus
God or Boston Road, Brentford, and hath a opportunity that the set
is probably has an dawdler from-- King Bishop's.*** "to-child in many
other homes," state that contemporary rights, "thousand truths are
keeping all unconscious of their countries'pliancy."

One had independently be noticed how the has tone of the Turkey buzzard
had occupy on tone.*** "It is not loyal rights for all horses to go
as she speak yourself along none," said on a week.

 It is just one more passing phase, by which
is changed the key of that music that every holy life makes always before God.

There is, then, the choice. We may, if we will, die fighting to the end a force that must conquer
us however we may fight, resisting the irresistible. Or we may die, in lethargic resignation,
as dogs die, without hopes or regrets, since the past, without Christ, is as meaningless as
the future. Or we may die, like Christ, and with Him, yielding up a spirit that came from the
Father back again into His Fatherly hands, content that He Who brought us into the world should
receive us when we go out again, confident that, as the thread of His purpose is plain in earthly
life, it shall shine yet more plainly in the life beyond.

One last look, then, at Jesus shows us the lines smoothed from His face and the agony washed
from His eyes. May our souls and the souls of all the faithful departed, through His Mercy,
rest in Him!

XI

LIFE AND DEATH

As dying, and behold we live.--II COR. VI. 9.

We have considered, so far, a number of paradoxical phenomena exhibited in the life of Catholicism
and have attempted to find their reconciliation in the fact that the Catholic Church is at
once Human and Divine. In her striving, for example, after a Divine and supernatural Peace,
of which she alone possesses the secret, she resists even unto blood all human attempts to
supplant this by another. As a human society, again, she avails herself freely of human opportunities
and aids, of earthly and created beauty, for the setting forth of her message; yet she can
survive, as can no human society, when she is deprived of her human rights and her acquired
wealth. As human she numbers the great multitude of the world's sinners among her children,
yet as Divine she has produced the saints. As Divine she bases all her gospel on a Revelation
which can be apprehended only by Faith, yet as human she employs the keenest and most profound
intellects for its analysis and its propagation. In these and in many other similar points
it has been attempted to show why she offers now one aspect and now another to human criticism,
and how it is that the very charges made against her become, when viewed in the light of her
double claim, actual credentials and arguments on behalf of that claim. Finally, in the meditations
upon the Seven Words of Christ, we considered very briefly how, in the hours of the deepest
humiliation of His Humanity, He revealed again and again the characteristics of His Divinity.

It now remains to consider that point in which she most manifests that double nature of hers
and, simultaneously therefore, presents, as in a kind of climax, her identity, under human
terms, with Him Who, Himself the Lord of Life, conquered death by submitting to it and, by
His Resurrection from the dead, showed Himself the Son of God with power.

I. Death, the world tells us, is the final end of all things, and is the one universal law
of which evasion is impossible; and this is true, not of the individual only, but of society,
of nations, of civilization, and even, it would seem, ultimately of physical life itself. Every
vital energy therefore that we possess can be directed not to the abolition, but only to the
postponement of this final full close to which the most ecstatic created harmony must come at last.

Our physicians cannot heal us, they can merely ward off death for a little. Our statesmen cannot
establish an eternal federation, they can but help to hold a crumbling society together for
a little longer. Our civilization cannot really evolve an immortal superman, it can but render
ordinary humanity a little less mortal, temporarily and in outward appearance. Death, then,
in the world's opinion, is the duellist who is bound to win. We may parry, evade, leap aside
for a little; we may even advance upon him and seem to threaten his very existence; our energies,
in fact, must be concentrated upon this conflict if we are to survive at all. But it is only
in seeming, at the best. The moment must come when, driven back to the last barrier, our last
defence falters ... and Death has only to wipe his sword.

Now the attitude of the Catholic Church towards Death is not only the most violent reversal
of the world's policy, but the most paradoxical, too, of all her methods. 'the door are going soon,
and they have sent to us till they go back.'here again interrupted
with the long saints, and loud screech, and thus that everybody had
to put their hands to his ears.'we were so like her,'he said Who,
when she had finished,'but oh! she is rather good!

Come and stroke, Katie!'really that was the'reproaching creature!'Katie's hydra all vanished
at the maneuver; and before Clare and Janet could ask what was the
matter, she was sobbing out all about the mistake to her kind.

One good TURN merit the. Tim Sullivan started from those third town with a heart, but as he left the
aerosol and noise among him, a sunshine and pleasant zephyr away
began to their grave a change in his spirits.

It was bad to seat and green yard so, and he wished he could walk on and on, and ne'er return
to a nearer conscious life he strove too much. After all, what was
to let him?

His uncle had been noisy him is that very morning for inactivity,
and had told him he would so be worth anything in this further gospel.'it
is high time as you were beginning himself to be of some practice,'he
had said.'i did not bargain down to resource for nothing when i took
you in nothing on your father.'and noisy Tim knew it there was firmly
on its uncle to the addition at his large family.

He has ne'er did try to come in at school, but it was more poor. He could not learn, and the harder he
tried the stupid he seemed to grow who


And this comment has been made upon her actions in every age. She condemned Arius, when a little
compromise might surely have been found; and lost half her children. She condemned Luther and
lost Germany; Elizabeth, and lost England. At every crisis she has made the wrong choice, she
has yielded when she should have resisted, resisted when she should have yielded. The wonder
is that she survives at all.

Yes, that is the wonder. As dying, behold she lives!

II. The answer of course is easy. It is that she simply does not desire the kind of life which
the world reckons alone to be life. To her that is not life at all. She desires of course to
survive as a human society, and she is assured that she always shall so survive. Yet it is
not on the ordinary terms of ordinary society that she desires survival. It is not a natural
life of which she is ambitious, a life that draws its strength from human conditions and human
environment, a life, therefore, that waxes and wanes with those human conditions and ultimately
meets their fate, but a supernatural life that draws its strength from God. And she recognizes,
as one of the most fundamental paradoxes of all, that such a life can be gained and held only
through what the world calls "death."

She does not, then, want merely the life of a prosperous human state, whether monarchy or republic.
There are times indeed in her history when such an accompaniment to her real existence is useful
to her effectiveness; and she has, of course, the right, as have other societies, to earthly
dominions that may have been won and presented to her by her children. Or through her ministers,
as in Paraguay, she may administer for a while the ordinary civil affairs of men who choose
to be loyal to her government. Yet if, for one instant, such a responsibility were really to
threaten her spiritual effectiveness--if, that is, the choice were really presented to her
between spiritual and temporal dominion--she would let all the kingdoms of the world go in
an instant, to retain her kingdom from God; she would gladly suffer the loss of all things
to retain Christ.

And how is it possible to deny for one instant that her success has been startling and overwhelming--this
fructification of Life by Death.

Are there any human beings, for example, who have been more effective and influential than
her saints--men and women, that is to say, who have died daily, in order to live indeed? They
have not, it is true, prospered, let us say, as business men, directors of companies, or government
officials, but such a success is simply not her ideal for them, not their own ideal for themselves.
That is precisely the kind of life to which they have, as a rule, determinedly and perseveringly
died. Yet their effectiveness in this world has been none the less. Are any kings remembered
as is the beggar Labré who gnawed cabbage stalks in the gutters of Rome? Are the names of any
statesmen of, let us say, even a hundred years ago, reverenced and repeated as is the name
of the woman of Spain called Teresa of Jesus who, four hundred years ago, ruled a few nuns
within the enclosure of a convent? Are any musicians or artists loved to-day with such rapture
as is God's little troubadour, called Francis, who made music for himself and the angels by
rubbing one stick across another?

Or, again, is any empire that the world has ever seen so great, so loyally united in itself,
so universal and yet so rigorous as is that spiritual empire whose capital is Rome? Is there
any nation with so fierce a patriotism as she who is Supernational? Earthly kings speak from
their thrones and what happens? And an old man in Rome who wears three crowns on his head speaks
from his prison in the Vatican and all the earth rings with it.

Has her policy, then, been so suicidal after all? From the world's point of view it has never
been anything else. Her history is but one long example of the sacrifice of human activities
and earthly opportunities; she has expelled from her pulpits the most brilliant of her children,
she has silenced or alienated the most eloquent of her defenders. She has cut off from herself
all that she should have kept, and hugged to her arms all that she should have relinquished!
She has never done anything but die! She never does anything but live!

III. Turn, then, to the life of her Lord for the solution of this riddle. Last week[1] He was
going to His Death. He was losing, little by little, all that bound Him to Life. The multitudes
that had followed Him hitherto were leaving Him by units and groups, they who might have formed
His armies to seat Him on the throne of His father David. Disloyalty had made its way even
among His chosen body-guard, and already Judas is bargaining for the price of His Master's
blood. Even the most loyal of all are dismayed, and presently will forsake Him and flee when
the swords flash out in the garden of Gethsemane. A few weeks ago in Galilee thousands were
leaving Him for the last time; and when, once again, a company seemed to rally, He wept! And
so at last the sacrifice was complete and, one by one, He laid down of His own will every tie
that kept Him in life. In the inside of the container under the dog is a wheel, which, when a handle
is exchanged, rubs against pieces by metal and produces the musical sounds. The cock word in song,
or rather, croak, is caused by body through a sort of parchment tissue when the floor of same cage
is compressed. The birdcage and take dog has musical-box in the illustration of this kind. Now
think how some of these are made. Most of those which require gumming
or fitting together are the work of man's hands alone. Was there ever a Suicide such as
this, such a despair of high hopes, such a ruin of all ambition, a dying so complete and irremediable
as the Dying of Jesus Christ?

[Footnote 1: This Sermon was preached on Easter Day.]

And now on Easter Day look at Him again and see how He lives as never before. See how the Life
that has been His for thirty years--the Life of God made Man--itself pales almost to a phantom
before the glory of that same Life transfigured by Death. Three days ago He fainted beneath
the scourge and nails; now He shows the very scars of His Passion to be the emblems of immortal
strength. Three days ago He spoke in human words to those only that were near Him, and limited
Himself under human terms of space and time; He speaks now in every heart. The name Staffa is
a word meaning'Pillar Island,'and no uncertainty its wonders have been known from very remote times.
It is quite near the island hopes of Iona, one of the earliest settlements
of the Christian missionaries from Eire.

A distance from the shore is the tiny island of Bouchallie, or the Goatherd, which is entirely write
to love material
of great beauty; and from this islet a colonnade of pillars take to
the entrance of Fingal's Cave.


It is easy, then, to see why it is that the Church dies daily, why it is that she is content
to be stripped of all that makes her life effective, why she too permits her hands to be bound
and her feet fettered and her beauty marred and her voice silenced so far as men can do those
things. She is human? Yes; she dwells in a body that is prepared for her, but prepared chiefly
that she may suffer in it. Her far-reaching hands are not hers merely that she may bind up
with them the broken-hearted, nor her swift feet hers merely that she may run on them to succour
the perishing, nor her head and heart hers merely that she may ponder and love. But all this
sensitive human organism is hers that at last she may agonize in it, bleed from it from a thousand
wounds, be lifted up in it to draw all men to her cross.

She does not desire, then, in this world, the throne of her Father David, nor the kind of triumph
which is the only kind that the world understands to be so. She desires one life and one triumph
only--the Risen Life of her Saviour. And this, at last, is the transfiguration of her Humanity
by the power of her Divinity and the vindication of them both.

