ROB ROY

By Sir Walter Scott

VOLUME TWO

CHAPTER FIRST

                   And hurry, hurry, off they rode,
                       As fast as fast might be;
                   Hurra, hurra, the dead can ride,
                       Dost fear to ride with me?
                                            Burger.

There is one advantage in an accumulation of evils, differing in cause and character, that
the distraction which they afford by their contradictory operation prevents the patient from
being overwhelmed under either. I was deeply grieved at my separation from Miss Vernon, yet
not so much so as I should have been, had not my father's apprehended distresses forced themselves
on my attention; and I was distressed by the news of Mr. Tresham, yet less so than if they
had fully occupied my mind. I was neither a false lover nor an unfeeling son; but man can give
but a certain portion of distressful emotions to the causes which demand them; and if two operate
at once, our sympathy, like the funds of a compounding bankrupt, can only be divided between
them. Such were my reflections when I gained my apartment--it seems, from the illustration,
they already began to have a twang of commerce in them.

I set myself seriously to consider your father's letter. It was not very distinct, and referred
for several particulars to Owen, whom I was entreated to meet with as soon as possible at a
Scotch town called Glasgow; being informed, moreover, that my old friend was to be heard of
at Messrs. MacVittie, MacFin, and Company, merchants in the Gallowgate of the said town. It
likewise alluded to several letters,--which, as it appeared to me, must have miscarried or
have been intercepted, and complained of my obdurate silence, in terms which would have, been
highly unjust, had my letters reached their purposed destination. I was amazed as I read. That
the spirit of Rashleigh walked around me, and conjured up these doubts and difficulties by
which I was surrounded, I could not doubt for one instant; yet it was frightful to conceive
the extent of combined villany and power which he must have employed in the perpetration of
his designs. Let me do myself justice in one respect. The evil of parting from Miss Vernon,
however distressing it might in other respects and at another time have appeared to me, sunk
into a subordinate consideration when I thought of the dangers impending over my father. I
did not myself set a high estimation on wealth, and had the affectation of most young men of
lively imagination, who suppose that they can better dispense with the possession of money,
than resign their time and faculties to the labour necessary to acquire it. But in my father's
case, I knew that bankruptcy would be considered as an utter and irretrievable disgrace, to
which life would afford no comfort, and death the speediest and sole relief.

My mind, therefore, was bent on averting this catastrophe, with an intensity which the interest
could not have produced had it referred to my own fortunes; and the result of my deliberation
was a firm resolution to depart from Osbaldistone Hall the next day and wend my way without
loss of time to meet Owen at Glasgow. I did not hold it expedient to intimate my departure
to my uncle, otherwise than by leaving a letter of thanks for his hospitality, assuring him
that sudden and important business prevented my offering them in person. I knew the blunt old
knight would readily excuse ceremony; and I had such a belief in the extent and decided character
of Rashleigh's machinations, that I had some apprehension of his having provided means to intercept
a journey which was undertaken with a view to disconcert them, if my departure were publicly
announced at Osbaldistone Hall.

I therefore determined to set off on my journey with daylight on the ensuing morning, and to
gain the neighbouring kingdom of Scotland before any idea of my departure was entertained at
the Hall. But one impediment of consequence was likely to prevent that speed which was the
soul of my expedition. I did not know the shortest, nor indeed any road to Glasgow; and as,
in the circumstances in which I stood, despatch was of the greatest consequence, I determined
to consult Andrew Fairservice on the subject, as the nearest and most authentic authority within
my reach. Late as it was, I set off with the intention of ascertaining this important point,
and after a few minutes' walk reached the dwelling of the gardener.

Andrew's dwelling was situated at no great distance from the exterior wall of the garden--a
snug comfortable Northumbrian cottage, built of stones roughly dressed with the hammer, and
having the windows and doors decorated with huge heavy architraves, or lintels, as they are
called, of hewn stone, and its roof covered with broad grey flags, instead of slates, thatch,
or tiles.

As I approached the mansion of the sapient Andrew, I heard a noise, which, being of a nature
peculiarly solemn, nasal, and prolonged, led me to think that Andrew, according to the decent
and meritorious custom of his countrymen, had assembled some of his neighbours to join in family
exercise, as he called evening devotion. Andrew had indeed neither wife, child, nor female
inmate in his family. "The first of his trade," he said, "had had eneugh o'thae cattle." But,
notwithstanding, he sometimes contrived to form an audience for himself out of the neighbouring
Papists and Church-of-Englandmen--brands, as he expressed it, snatched out of the burning,
on whom he used to exercise his spiritual gifts, in defiance alike of Father Vaughan, Father
Docharty, Rashleigh, and all the world of Catholics around him, who deemed his interference
on such occasions an act of heretical interloping. I conceived it likely, therefore, that the
well-disposed neighbours might have assembled to hold some chapel of ease of this nature. The
noise, however, when I listened to it more accurately, seemed to proceed entirely from the
lungs of the said Andrew; and when I interrupted it by entering the house, I found Fairservice
alone, combating as he best could, with long words and hard names, and reading aloud, for the
purpose of his own edification, a volume of controversial divinity.

"I was just taking a spell," said he, laying aside the huge folio volume as I entered, "of
the worthy Doctor Lightfoot."

"Lightfoot!" I replied, looking at the ponderous volume with some surprise; "surely your author
was unhappily named."

"Lightfoot was his name, sir; a divine he was, and another kind of a divine than they hae now-adays.
Always, I crave your pardon for keeping ye standing at the door, but having been mistrysted
(gude preserve us!) with ae bogle the night already, I was dubious o' opening the yett till
I had gaen through the e'ening worship; and I had just finished the fifth chapter of Nehemiah--if
that winna gar them keep their distance, I wotna what will."

"Trysted with a bogle!" said I; "what do you mean by that, Andrew?"

"I said mistrysted," replied Andrew; "that is as muckle as to say, fley'd wi' a ghaist--Gude
preserve us, I say again!"

"Flay'd by a ghost, Andrew! how am I to understand that?"

"I did not say flay'd," replied Andrew, "but fley'd,--that is, I got a fleg, and was ready
to jump out o' my skin, though naebody offered to whirl it aff my body as a man wad bark a tree."

"I beg a truce to your terrors in the present case, Andrew, and I wish to know whether you
can direct me the nearest way to a town in your country of Scotland, called Glasgow?"

"A town ca'd Glasgow!" echoed Andrew Fairservice. "Glasgow's a ceety, man.--And is't the way
to Glasgow ye were speering if I ken'd?--What suld ail me to ken it?--it's no that dooms far
frae my ain parish of Dreepdaily, that lies a bittock farther to the west. But what may your
honour be gaun to Glasgow for?"

"Particular business," replied I.

"That's as muckle as to say, Speer nae questions, and I'll tell ye nae lees.--To Glasgow?"--he
made a short pause--"I am thinking ye wad be the better o' some ane to show you the road."

"Certainly, if I could meet with any person going that way."

"And your honour, doubtless, wad consider the time and trouble?"

"Unquestionably--my business is pressing, and if you can find any guide to accompany me, I'll
pay him handsomely."

"This is no a day to speak o' carnal matters," said Andrew, casting his eyes upwards; "but
if it werena Sabbath at e'en, I wad speer what ye wad be content to gie to ane that wad bear
ye pleasant company on the road, and tell ye the names of the gentlemen's and noblemen's seats
and castles, and count their kin to ye?"

"I tell you, all I want to know is the road I must travel; I will pay the fellow to his satisfaction--I
will give him anything in reason."

"Onything," replied Andrew, "is naething; and this lad that I am speaking o' kens a' the short
cuts and queer by-paths through the hills, and"--

"I have no time to talk about it, Andrew; do you make the bargain for me your own way."

"Aha! that's speaking to the purpose," answered Andrew.--"I am thinking, since sae be that
sae it is, I'll be the lad that will guide you mysell."

"You, Andrew?--how will you get away from your employment?"

"I tell'd your honour a while syne, that it was lang that I hae been thinking o' flitting,
maybe as lang as frae the first year I came to Osbaldistone Hall; and now I am o' the mind
to gang in gude earnest--better soon as syne--better a finger aff as aye wagging."

"You leave your service, then?--but will you not lose your wages?"

"Nae doubt there will be a certain loss; but then I hae siller o' the laird's in my hands that
I took for the apples in the auld orchyard--and a sair bargain the folk had that bought them--a
wheen green trash--and yet Sir Hildebrand's as keen to hae the siller (that is, the steward
is as pressing about it) as if they had been a' gowden pippins--and then there's the siller
for the seeds--I'm thinking the wage will be in a manner decently made up.--But doubtless your
honour will consider my risk of loss when we win to Glasgow--and ye'll be for setting out forthwith?"

"By day-break in the morning," I answered.

"That's something o' the suddenest--whare am I to find a naig?--Stay--I ken just the beast
that will answer me."

"At five in the morning, then, Andrew, you will meet me at the head of the avenue."

"Deil a fear o' me (that I suld say sae) missing my tryste," replied Andrew, very briskly;
"and if I might advise, we wad be aff twa hours earlier. I ken the way, dark or light, as weel
as blind Ralph Ronaldson, that's travelled ower every moor in the country-side, and disna ken
the colour of a heather-cowe when a's dune."

I highly approved of Andrew's amendment on my original proposal, and we agreed to meet at the
place appointed at three in the morning. At once, however, a reflection came across the mind
of my intended travelling companion.

"The bogle! the bogle! what if it should come out upon us?--I downa forgather wi' thae things
twice in the four-and-twenty hours."

"Pooh! pooh!" I exclaimed, breaking away from him, "fear nothing from the next world--the earth
contains living fiends, who can act for themselves without assistance, were the whole host
that fell with Lucifer to return to aid and abet them."

With these words, the import of which was suggested by my own situation, I left Andrew's habitation,
and returned to the Hall.

I made the few preparations which were necessary for my proposed journey, examined and loaded
my pistols, and then threw myself on my bed, to obtain, if possible, a brief sleep before the
fatigue of a long and anxious journey. Nature, exhausted by the tumultuous agitations of the
day, was kinder to me than I expected, and I stink into a deep and profound slumber, from which,
however, I started as the old clock struck two from a turret adjoining to my bedchamber. I
instantly arose, struck a light, wrote the letter I proposed to leave for my uncle, and leaving
behind me such articles of dress as were cumbrous in carriage, I deposited the rest of my wardrobe
in my valise, glided down stairs, and gained the stable without impediment. Without being quite
such a groom as any of my cousins, I had learned at Osbaldistone Hall to dress and saddle my
own horse, and in a few minutes I was mounted and ready for my sally.

As I paced up the old avenue, on which the waning moon threw its light with a pale and whitish
tinge, I looked back with a deep and boding sigh towards the walls which contained Diana Vernon,
under the despondent impression that we had probably parted to meet no more. It was impossible,
among the long and irregular lines of Gothic casements, which now looked ghastly white in the
moonlight, to distinguish that of the apartment which she inhabited. "She is lost to me already,"
thought I, as my eye wandered over the dim and indistinguishable intricacies of architecture
offered by the moonlight view of Osbaldistone Hall--"She is lost to me already, ere I have
left the place which she inhabits! What hope is there of my maintaining any correspondence
with her, when leagues shall lie between?"

While I paused in a reverie of no very pleasing nature, the "iron tongue of time told three
upon the drowsy ear of night," and reminded me of the necessity of keeping my appointment with
a person of a less interesting description and appearance--Andrew Fairservice.

At the gate of the avenue I found a horseman stationed in the shadow of the wall, but it was
not until I had coughed twice, and then called "Andrew," that the horticulturist replied, "I'se
warrant it's Andrew."

"Lead the way, then," said I, "and be silent if you can, till we are past the hamlet in the
valley."

Andrew led the way accordingly, and at a much brisker pace than I would have recommended.--and
so well did he obey my injunctions of keeping silence, that he would return no answer to my
repeated inquiries into the cause of such unnecessary haste. Extricating ourselves by short
cuts, known to Andrew, from the numerous stony lanes and by-paths which intersected each other
in the vicinity of the Hall, we reached the open heath and riding swiftly across it, took our
course among the barren hills which divide England from Scotland on what are called the Middle
Marches. The way, or rather the broken track which we occupied, was a happy interchange of
bog and shingles; nevertheless, Andrew relented nothing of his speed, but trotted manfully
forward at the rate of eight or ten miles an hour. I was both surprised and provoked at the
fellow's obstinate persistence, for we made abrupt ascents and descents over ground of a very
break-neck character, and traversed the edge of precipices, where a slip of the horse's feet
would have consigned the rider to certain death. The moon, at best, afforded a dubious and
imperfect light; but in some places we were so much under the shade of the mountain as to be
in total darkness, and then I could only trace Andrew by the clatter of his horse's feet, and
the fire which they struck from the flints. At first, this rapid motion, and the attention
which, for the sake of personal safety, I was compelled to give to the conduct of my horse,
was of service, by forcibly diverting my thoughts from the various painful reflections which
must otherwise have pressed on my mind. But at length, after hallooing repeatedly to Andrew
to ride slower, I became seriously incensed at his impudent perseverance in refusing either
to obey or to reply to me. My anger was, however, quite impotent. I attempted once or twice
to get up alongside of my self-willed guide, with the purpose of knocking him off his horse
with the butt-end of my whip; but Andrew was better mounted than I, and either the spirit of
the animal which he bestrode, or more probably some presentiment of my kind intentions towards
him, induced him to quicken his pace whenever I attempted to make up to him. On the other hand,
I was compelled to exert my spurs to keep him in sight, for without his guidance I was too
well aware that I should never find my way through the howling wilderness which we now traversed
at such an unwonted pace. I was so angry at length, that I threatened to have recourse to my
pistols, and send a bullet after the Hotspur Andrew, which should stop his fiery-footed career,
if he did not abate it of his own accord. Apparently this threat made some impression on the
tympanum of his ear, however deaf to all my milder entreaties; for he relaxed his pace upon
hearing it, and, suffering me to close up to him, observed, "There wasna muckle sense in riding
at sic a daft-like gate."

"And what did you mean by doing so at all, you self-willed scoundrel?" replied I; for I was
in a towering passion,--to which, by the way, nothing contributes more than the having recently
undergone a spice of personal fear, which, like a few drops of water flung on a glowing fire,
is sure to inflame the ardour which it is insufficient to quench.

"What's your honour's wull?" replied Andrew, with impenetrable gravity.

"My will, you rascal?--I have been roaring to you this hour to ride slower, and you have never
so much as answered me--Are you drunk or mad to behave so?"

"An it like your honour, I am something dull o' hearing; and I'll no deny but I might have
maybe taen a stirrup-cup at parting frae the auld bigging whare I hae dwelt sae lang; and having
naebody to pledge, nae doubt I was obliged to do mysell reason, or else leave the end o' the
brandy stoup to thae papists--and that wad be a waste, as your honour kens."

This might be all very true,--and my circumstances required that I should be on good terms
with my guide; I therefore satisfied myself with requiring of him to take his directions from
me in future concerning the rate of travelling.

Andrew, emboldened by the mildness of my tone, elevated his own into the pedantic, conceited
octave, which was familiar to him on most occasions.

"Your honour winna persuade me, and naebody shall persuade me, that it's either halesome or
prudent to tak the night air on thae moors without a cordial o' clow-gilliflower water, or
a tass of brandy or aquavitae, or sic-like creature-comfort. I hae taen the bent ower the Otterscrape-rigg
a hundred times, day and night, and never could find the way unless I had taen my morning;
mair by token that I had whiles twa bits o' ankers o' brandy on ilk side o' me."--

"In other words, Andrew," said I, "you were a smuggler--how does a man of your strict principles
reconcile yourself to cheat the revenue?"

"It's a mere spoiling o' the Egyptians," replied Andrew; "puir auld Scotland suffers eneugh
by thae blackguard loons o' excisemen and gaugers, that hae come down on her like locusts since
the sad and sorrowfu' Union; it's the part of a kind son to bring her a soup o' something that
will keep up her auld heart,--and that will they nill they, the ill-fa'ard thieves!"

Upon more particular inquiry, I found Andrew had frequently travelled these mountain-paths
as a smuggler, both before and after his establishment at Osbaldistone Hall--a circumstance
which was so far of importance to me, as it proved his capacity as a guide, notwithstanding
the escapade of which he had been guilty at his outset, Even now, though travelling at a more
moderate pace, the stirrup-cup, or whatever else had such an effect in stimulating Andrew's
motions, seemed not totally to have lost its influence. He often cast a nervous and startled
look behind him; and whenever the road seemed at all practicable, showed symptoms of a desire
to accelerate his pace, as if he feared some pursuit from the rear. These appearances of alarm
gradually diminished as we reached the top of a high bleak ridge, which ran nearly east and
west for about a mile, with a very steep descent on either side. The pale beams of the morning
were now enlightening the horizon, when Andrew cast a look behind him, and not seeing the appearance
of a living being on the moors which he had travelled, his hard features gradually unbent,
as he first whistled, then sung, with much glee and little melody, the end of one of his native
songs--

                    "Jenny, lass! I think I hae her
                     Ower the muir amang the heather,
                     All their clan shall never get her."

He patted at the same time the neck of the horse which had carried him so gallantly; and my
attention being directed by that action to the animal, I instantly recognised a favourite mare
of Thorncliff Osbaldistone. "How is this, sir?" said I sternly; "that is Mr. Thorncliff's mare!"

"I'll no say but she may aiblins hae been his honour's Squire Thorncliff's in her day--but
she's mine now."

"You have stolen her, you rascal."

"Na, na, sir--nae man can wyte me wi' theft. The thing stands this gate, ye see. Squire Thorncliff
borrowed ten punds o' me to gang to York Races--deil a boddle wad he pay me back again, and
spake o' raddling my banes, as he ca'd it, when I asked him but for my ain back again;--now
I think it will riddle him or he gets his horse ower the Border again--unless he pays me plack
and bawbee, he sall never see a hair o' her tail. I ken a canny chield at Loughmaben, a bit
writer lad, that will put me in the way to sort him. Steal the mear! na, na, far be the sin
o' theft frae Andrew Fairservice--I have just arrested her jurisdictionis fandandy causey.
Thae are bonny writer words--amaist like the language o' huz gardeners and other learned men--it's
a pity they're sae dear;--thae three words were a' that Andrew got for a lang law-plea and
four ankers o' as gude brandy as was e'er coupit ower craig--Hech, sirs! but law's a dear thing."

"You are likely to find it much dearer than you suppose, Andrew, if you proceed in this mode
of paying yourself, without legal authority."

"Hout tout, we're in Scotland now (be praised for't!) and I can find baith friends and lawyers,
and judges too, as weel as ony Osbaldistone o' them a'. My mither's mither's third cousin was
cousin to the Provost o' Dumfries, and he winna see a drap o' her blude wranged. Hout awa!
the laws are indifferently administered here to a' men alike; it's no like on yon side, when
a chield may be whuppit awa' wi' ane o' Clerk Jobson's warrants, afore he kens where he is.
But they will hae little enough law amang them by and by, and that is ae grand reason that
I hae gi'en them gude-day."

I was highly provoked at the achievement of Andrew, and considered it as a hard fate, which
a second time threw me into collision with a person of such irregular practices. I determined,
however, to buy the mare of him, when he should reach the end of our journey, and send her
back to my cousin at Osbaldistone Hall; and with this purpose of reparation I resolved to make
my uncle acquainted from the next post-town. It was needless, I thought, to quarrel with Andrew
in the meantime, who had, after all, acted not very unnaturally for a person in his circumstances.
I therefore smothered my resentment, and asked him what he meant by his last expressions, that
there would be little law in Northumberland by and by?

"Law!" said Andrew, "hout, ay--there will be club-law eneugh. The priests and the Irish officers,
and thae papist cattle that hae been sodgering abroad, because they durstna bide at hame, are
a' fleeing thick in Northumberland e'enow; and thae corbies dinna gather without they smell
carrion. As sure as ye live, his honour Sir Hildebrand is gaun to stick his horn in the bog--there's
naething but gun and pistol, sword and dagger, amang them--and they'll be laying on, I'se warrant;
for they're fearless fules the young Osbaldistone squires, aye craving your honour's pardon."

This speech recalled to my memory some suspicions that I myself had entertained, that the Jacobites
were on the eve of some desperate enterprise. But, conscious it did not become me to be a spy
on my uncle's words and actions, I had rather avoided than availed myself of any opportunity
which occurred of remarking upon the signs of the times.-- Andrew Fairservice felt no such
restraint, and doubtless spoke very truly in stating his conviction that some desperate plots
were in agitation, as a reason which determined his resolution to leave the Hall.

"The servants," he stated, "with the tenantry and others, had been all regularly enrolled and
mustered, and they wanted me to take arms also. But I'll ride in nae siccan troop--they little
ken'd Andrew that asked him. I'll fight when I like mysell, but it sall neither be for the
hure o' Babylon, nor any hure in England."

CHAPTER SECOND.

                 Where longs to fall yon rifted spire,
                     As weary of the insulting air,--
                 The poet's thoughts, the warrior's fire,
                     The lover's sighs, are sleeping there.
                                             Langhorne.

At the first Scotch town which we reached, my guide sought out his friend and counsellor, to
consult upon the proper and legal means of converting into his own lawful property the "bonny
creature," which was at present his own only by one of those sleight-of-hand arrangements which
still sometimes took place in that once lawless district. I was somewhat diverted with the
dejection of his looks on his return. He had, it seems, been rather too communicative to his
confidential friend, the attorney; and learned with great dismay, in return for his unsuspecting
frankness, that Mr. Touthope had, during his absence, been appointed clerk to the peace of
the county, and was bound to communicate to justice all such achievements as that of his friend
Mr. Andrew Fairservice. There was a necessity, this alert member of the police stated, for
arresting the horse, and placing him in Bailie Trumbull's stable, therein to remain at livery,
at the rate of twelve shillings (Scotch) per diem, until the question of property was duly
tried and debated. He even talked as if, in strict and rigorous execution of his duty, he ought
to detain honest Andrew himself; but on my guide's most piteously entreating his forbearance,
he not only desisted from this proposal, but made a present to Andrew of a broken-winded and
spavined pony, in order to enable him to pursue his journey. It is true, he qualified this
act of generosity by exacting from poor Andrew an absolute cession of his right and interest
in the gallant palfrey of Thorncliff Osbaldistone--a transference which Mr. Touthope represented
as of very little consequence, since his unfortunate friend, as he facetiously observed, was
likely to get nothing of the mare excepting the halter.

Andrew seemed woeful and disconcerted, as I screwed out of him these particulars; for his northern
pride was cruelly pinched by being compelled to admit that attorneys were attorneys on both
sides of the Tweed; and that Mr. Clerk Touthope was not a farthing more sterling coin than
Mr. Clerk Jobson.

"It wadna hae vexed him half sae muckle to hae been cheated out o' what might amaist be said
to be won with the peril o' his craig, had it happened amang the Inglishers; but it was an
unco thing to see hawks pike out hawks' e'en, or ae kindly Scot cheat anither. But nae doubt
things were strangely changed in his country sin' the sad and sorrowfu' Union;" an event to
which Andrew referred every symptom of depravity or degeneracy which he remarked among his
countrymen, more especially the inflammation of reckonings, the diminished size of pint-stoups,
and other grievances, which he pointed out to me during our journey.

For my own part, I held myself, as things had turned out, acquitted of all charge of the mare,
and wrote to my uncle the circumstances under which she was carried into Scotland, concluding
with informing him that she was in the hands of justice, and her worthy representatives, Bailie
Trumbull and Mr. Clerk Touthope, to whom I referred him for farther particulars. Whether the
property returned to the Northumbrian fox-hunter, or continued to bear the person of the Scottish
attorney, it is unnecessary for me at present to say.

We now pursued our journey to the north-westward, at a rate much slower than that at which
we had achieved our nocturnal retreat from England. One chain of barren and uninteresting hills
succeeded another, until the more fertile vale of Clyde opened upon us; and, with such despatch
as we might, we gained the town, or, as my guide pertinaciously termed it, the city, of Glasgow.
Of late years, I understand, it has fully deserved the name, which, by a sort of political
second sight, my guide assigned to it. An extensive and increasing trade with the West Indies
and American colonies, has, if I am rightly informed, laid the foundation of wealth and prosperity,
which, if carefully strengthened and built upon, may one day support an immense fabric of commercial
prosperity; but in the earlier time of which I speak, the dawn of this splendour had not arisen.
The Union had, indeed, opened to Scotland the trade of the English colonies; but, betwixt want
of capital, and the national jealousy of the English, the merchants of Scotland were as yet
excluded, in a great measure, from the exercise of the privileges which that memorable treaty
conferred on them. Glasgow lay on the wrong side of the island for participating in the east
country or continental trade, by which the trifling commerce as yet possessed by Scotland chiefly
supported itself. Yet, though she then gave small promise of the commercial eminence to which,
I am informed, she seems now likely one day to attain, Glasgow, as the principal central town
of the western district of Scotland, was a place of considerable rank and importance. The broad
and brimming Clyde, which flows so near its walls, gave the means of an inland navigation of
some importance. Not only the fertile plains in its immediate neighbourhood, but the districts
of Ayr and Dumfries regarded Glasgow as their capital, to which they transmitted their produce,
and received in return such necessaries and luxuries as their consumption required.

The dusky mountains of the western Highlands often sent forth wilder tribes to frequent the
marts of St. Mungo's favourite city. Hordes of wild shaggy, dwarfish cattle and ponies, conducted
by Highlanders, as wild, as shaggy, and sometimes as dwarfish, as the animals they had in charge,
often traversed the streets of Glasgow. Strangers gazed with surprise on the antique and fantastic
dress, and listened to the unknown and dissonant sounds of their language, while the mountaineers,
armed, even while engaged in this peaceful occupation, with musket and pistol, sword, dagger,
and target, stared with astonishment on the articles of luxury of which they knew not the use,
and with an avidity which seemed somewhat alarming on the articles which they knew and valued.
It is always with unwillingness that the Highlander quits his deserts, and at this early period
it was like tearing a pine from its rock, to plant him elsewhere. Yet even then the mountain
glens were over-peopled, although thinned occasionally by famine or by the sword, and many
of their inhabitants strayed down to Glasgow--there formed settlements--there sought and found
employment, although different, indeed, from that of their native hills. This supply of a hardy
and useful population was of consequence to the prosperity of the place, furnished the means
of carrying on the few manufactures which the town already boasted, and laid the foundation
of its future prosperity.

The exterior of the city corresponded with these promising circumstances. The principal street
was broad and important, decorated with public buildings, of an architecture rather striking
than correct in point of taste, and running between rows of tall houses, built of stone, the
fronts of which were occasionally richly ornamented with mason-work--a circumstance which gave
the street an imposing air of dignity and grandeur, of which most English towns are in some
measure deprived, by the slight, insubstantial, and perishable quality and appearance of the
bricks with which they are constructed.

In the western metropolis of Scotland, my guide and I arrived on a Saturday evening, too late
to entertain thoughts of business of any kind. We alighted at the door of a jolly hostler-wife,
as Andrew called her,--the Ostelere of old father Chaucer,--by whom we were civilly received.

On the following morning the bells pealed from every steeple, announcing the sanctity of the
day. Notwithstanding, however, what I had heard of the severity with which the Sabbath is observed
in Scotland, my first impulse, not unnaturally, was to seek out Owen; but on inquiry I found
that my attempt would be in vain, "until kirk time was ower." Not only did my landlady and
guide jointly assure me that "there wadna be a living soul either in the counting-house or
dwelling-house of Messrs. MacVittie, MacFin, and Company," to which Owen's letter referred
me, but, moreover, "far less would I find any of the partners there. They were serious men,
and wad be where a' gude Christians ought to be at sic a time, and that was in the Barony Laigh
Kirk."*

* [The Laigh Kirk or Crypt of the Cathedral of Glasgow served for more * than two centuries
as the church of the Barony Parish, and, for a time, was * converted into a burial-place. In
the restorations of this grand building * the crypt was cleared out, and is now admired as
one of the richest specimens * of Early English architecture existing in Scotland.]

Andrew Fairservice, whose disgust at the law of his country had fortunately not extended itself
to the other learned professions of his native land, now sung forth the praises of the preacher
who was to perform the duty, to which my hostess replied with many loud amens. The result was,
that I determined to go to this popular place of worship, as much with the purpose of learning,
if possible, whether Owen had arrived in Glasgow, as with any great expectation of edification.
My hopes were exalted by the assurance, that if Mr. Ephraim MacVittie (worthy man) were in
the land of life, he would surely honour the Barony Kirk that day with his presence; and if
he chanced to have a stranger within his gates, doubtless he would bring him to the duty along
with him. This probability determined my motions, and under the escort of my faithful Andrew,
I set forth for the Barony Kirk.

