There was a Kitchener legend in Europe, and I do not think it survives save a little perhaps
in corners of England. There was a legend of a man of ice and of iron, a man who made victory
out of human material as a man makes a wall of mortar and stone, a man to whom his material
was only mortar and stone, even though it were human. This legend has perished so far as Kitchener
is concerned, gone with so much that England trusted and believed two years ago, but I find
myself thinking now of Pétain as we all thought of Kitchener in his great day.

If I were an officer I should not like to come to the defender of Verdun with the confession
of failure. I think I should rather meet the Bavarians in the first line trenches, but I should
like to know that when I was obeying orders I was carrying out a minor detail of something
Pétain had planned; I should expect it to happen, the thing that he had arranged, and I should
feel that those clear, steel-blue eyes had foreseen all that could occur, foreseen calmly and
utterly, whether it entailed the death of one or a thousand men, of ten thousand men if necessary,
and had willed that it should happen.

I do not believe Napoleon's Old Guard would have followed Pétain as they followed Ney. I cannot
fancy him in the Imperial uniform, and yet, now that war is a thing of machines, of telephones,
of indirect fire and destruction from unseen weapons at remote ranges, now that the whole manner
and circumstance of conflict have changed, it is but natural that the General should change,
too. Patently Pétain is of the new, not the old, but no less patently he was the master of it.

We left the little Mairie, entered our machines and slid out swiftly for the last miles, climbed
and curved over the final hill and suddenly looked down on a deep, trenchlike valley marching
from east to west and carrying the Paris-Verdun-Metz Railroad, no longer available for traffic.
And as we coasted down the hill we heard the guns at last, not steadily, but only from time
to time, a distant boom, a faint billowing up of musketry fire. Some three or four miles straight
ahead there were the lines of fire beyond the brown hills that flanked the valley.

At the bottom of the valley we turned east, moved on for a mile, and stopped abruptly. The
guns were sounding more clearly, and suddenly there was a sense not of soldiers, but of an
army. On one side of the road a column was coming toward us, a column of men who were leaving
the trenches for a rest, the men who for the recent days had held the first line. Wearily but
steadily they streamed by; the mud of the trenches covered their tunics; here and there a man
had lost his steel helmet and wore a handkerchief about his head, probably to conceal a slight
wound that but for the helmet had killed him.

These men were smiling as they marched; they carried their full equipment and it rattled and
tinkled; they carried their guns at all angles, they wore their uniforms in the strangest of
disorders; they seemed almost like miners coming from the depths of the earth rather than soldiers
returning from a decisive battle, from the hell of modern shell fire.

But it was the line on the other side of the road that held the eye. Here were the troops that
were going toward the fire, toward the trenches, that were marching to the sound of the guns,
and as one saw them the artillery rumble took on a new distinctness.

Involuntarily I searched the faces of these men as they passed. They were hardly ten feet from
me. Platoon after platoon, company after company, whole regiments in columns of fours. And
seeing the faces brought an instant shock; they all wore the same calm, steady, slightly weary
expression, but there was in the whole line scarcely a young man. Here were men of the thirties,
not the twenties; men still in the prime of strength, of health, but the fathers of families,
the men of full manhood.

Almost in a flash the fact came home. This was what all the graves along the road had meant.
This was what the battlefields and the glories of the twenty months had spelled--France had
sent her youth and it was spent; she was sending her manhood now.

In the line no man smiled and no man straggled; the ranks were closed up and there were neither
commands nor any visible sign of authority. These men who were marching to the sound of the
guns had been there before. They knew precisely what it meant. Yet you could not but feel that
as they went a little wearily, sadly, they marched willingly. They would not have it otherwise.
Their faces were the faces of men who had taken the full measure of their own fate.

You had a sense of the loathing, the horror, above all the sadness that was in their hearts
that this thing, this war, this destruction had to be. They had come back here through all
the waste of ruined villages and shell-torn hillsides; all the men that you saw would not measure
the cost of a single hour of trench fighting if the real attack began. This these men knew,
and the message of the artillery fire, which was only one of unknown terrors for you, was intelligible
to the utmost to each of them.

And yet with the weariness there was a certain resignation, a certain patience, a certain sense
of comprehending sacrifice that more than all else is France to-day, the true France. This,
and not the empty forts, not even the busy guns, was the wall that defended France, this line
of men. If it broke there would come thundering down again out of the north all the tornado
of destruction that had turned Northeastern France into a waste place and wrecked so much of
the world's store of the beautiful and the inspiring.

Somehow you felt that this was in the minds of all these men. They had willed to die that France
might live. They were going to a death that sounded ever more clearly as they marched. This
death had eaten up all that was young, most of what was young at the least, of France; it might
yet consume France, and so these men marched to the sound of the guns, not to martial music,
not with any suggestion of dash, of enthusiasm, but quietly, steadily, all with the same look
upon their faces--the look of men who have seen death and are to see it again. Instinctively
I thought of what Kipling had said to me in London:

"Somewhere over there," he had said, "the thing will suddenly grip your throat and your heart;
it will take hold of you as nothing in your life has ever done or ever will." And I know that
I never shall forget those lines of quiet, patient, middle-aged men marching to the sound of
the guns, leaving at their backs the countless graves that hold the youth of France, the men
who had known the Marne, the Yser, Champagne, who had known death for nearly two years, night
and day, almost constantly. Yet during the fifteen minutes I watched there was not one order,
not one straggler; there was a sense of the regularity with which the blood flows through the
human arteries in this tide, and it was the blood of France.

So many people have asked me, I had asked myself, the question before I went to France: "Are
they not weary of it? Will the French not give up from sheer exhaustion of strength?" I do
not think so, now that I have seen the faces of these hundreds of men as they marched to the
trenches beyond Verdun. France may bleed to death, but I do not think that while there are
men there will be an end of the sacrifice. No pen or voice can express the horror that these
men, that all Frenchmen, have of this war, of all war, the weariness. They hate it; you cannot
mistake this; but France marches to the frontier in the spirit that men manned the walls against
the barbarians in the other days; there is no other way; it must be.

Over and over again there has come the invariable answer; it would have come from scores and
hundreds of these men who passed so near me I could have touched their faded uniforms if I
had asked--"It is for France, for civilization; it must be, for there is no other way; we shall
die, but with us, with our sacrifice, perhaps this thing will end." You cannot put it in words
quite, I do not think even any Frenchman has quite said it, but you can see it, you can feel
it, you can understand it, when you see a regiment, a brigade, a division of these men of thirty,
some perhaps of forty, going forward to the war they hate and will never quiet until that which
they love is safe or they and all of their race are swallowed up in the storm that now was
audibly beating beyond the human walls on the nearby hillsides.

Presently we moved again, we slipped through the column, topped the last incline, shot under
the crumbling gate of the Verdun fortress, and as we entered a shell burst just behind us and
the roar drowned out all else in its sudden and paralyzing crash. It had fallen, so we learned
a little later, just where we had been watching the passing troops; it had fallen among them
and killed. But an hour or two later, when we repassed the point where it fell, men were still
marching by. Other regiments of men were still marching to the sound of the guns, and those
who had passed were already over the hills and beyond the river, filing into the trenches in
time, so it turned out, to meet the new attack that came with the later afternoon.

I went to Verdun to see the forts, the city, the hills, and the topography of a great battle;
I went in the hope of describing with a little of clarity what the operation meant as a military
affair. I say, and I shall hereafter try to describe this. But I shall never be able to describe
this thing which was the true Verdun for me--these men, their faces, seen as one heard the
shell fire and the musketry rolling, not steadily but intermittently, the men who had marched
over the roads that are lined with graves, through villages that are destroyed, who had come
of their own will and in calm determination and marched unhurryingly and yet unshrinkingly,
the men who were no longer young, who had left behind them all that men hold dear in life,
home, wives, children, because they knew that there was no other way.

I can only say to all those who have asked me, "What of France?" this simple thing, that I
do not believe the French will ever stop. I do not believe, as the Germans have said, that
French courage is weakening, that French determination is abating. I do not believe the Kaiser
himself would think this if he had seen these men's faces as they marched toward his guns.
I think he would feel as I felt, as one must feel, that these men went willingly, hating war
with their whole soul, destitute of passion or anger. It was built for Louis XIV by Vauban.
He took a solid rock and blasted out redoubts and battlements. The generations that followed
him dug into the living rock and created within it a whole city of catacombs, a vast labyrinth
of passages and chambers and halls; even an elevator was added by the latest engineers, so
that one can go from floor to floor, from the level of the meadow to the level of the summit
of the rock, possibly a hundred feet above.

By reason of the fact that many correspondents have visited this fortress since the war began
the world has come to know of the underground life in Verdun, to think of the city as defended
by some wonderful system of subterranean works; to think of Verdun, in fact, as a city or citadel
that is defensible either by walls or by forts. But the truth is far different: even the old
citadel is but a deserted cave; its massive walls of natural rock resist the shells as they
would repulse an avalanche; but the guns that were once on its parapets are gone, the garrison
is gone, gone far out on the trench lines beyond the hills. The Vauban citadel is now a place
where bread is baked, where wounded men are occasionally brought, where live the soldiers and
officers whose important but unromantic mission it is to keep the roads through the town open,
to police the ashes of the city, to do what remains of the work that once fell to the lot of
the civil authorities.

To glide swiftly to the shelter of this rock from a region in which a falling shell has served
to remind you of the real meaning of Verdun of the moment, to leave the automobile and plunge
into the welcome obscurity of this cavern--this was perhaps the most comfortable personal incident
of the day. The mere shadow of the rock gave a sense of security; to penetrate it was to pass
to safety.

Some moments of wandering by corridors and stairways into the very heart of the rock brought
us to the quarters of our host, General Dubois; to his kind attention I was to owe all my good
fortune in seeing his dying city; to him, at the end, I was to owe the ultimate evidence of
courtesy, which I shall never forget.

Unlike Pétain or Joffre, General Dubois is a little man, possibly a trifle older than either.
A white-haired, bright-eyed, vigorous soldier, who made his real fame in Madagascar with Joffre
and with Gallieni, and when the storm broke was sent to Verdun by these men, who knew him,
to do the difficult work that there was to be performed behind the battle line. There is about
General Dubois a suggestion of the old, as well as the new, of the French general. The private
soldiers to whom he spoke as he went his rounds responded with a "Oui, mon Général" that had
a note of affection as well as of discipline; he was rather as one fancied were the soldiers
of the Revolution, of the Empire, of the Algerian days of Père Bugeaud whose memory is still green.

Our salutations made, we returned through the winding corridors to inspect the bakeries, the
water and light plant, the unsuspected resources of this rock. In one huge cavern we saw the
men who provided 30,000 men with bread each day, men working as the stokers in an ocean steamer
labor amidst the glare of fires; we tasted the bread and found it good, as good as all French
bread is, and that means a little better than all other bread.

Then we slipped back into daylight and wandered along the face of the fortress. We inspected
shell holes of yesterday and of last month; we inspected them as one inspects the best blossoms
in a garden; we studied the angle at which they dropped; we measured the miniature avalanche
that they brought with them. But always, so far, there was the subconscious sense of the rock
between us and the enemy. I never before understood the full meaning of that phrase "a rock
in a weary land."

All this was but preliminary, however. Other automobiles arrived; the General entered one.
I followed in the next and we set out to visit Verdun, to visit the ruins, or, rather, to see
not a city that was dead, but a city that was visibly, hourly dying--a city that was vanishing
by blocks and by squares--but was not yet fallen to the estate of Ypres or Arras; a city that
in corners, where there were gardens behind the walls, still smiled; a city where some few
brave old buildings still stood four square and solid, but only waiting what was to come.

Before I visited Verdun I had seen many cities and towns which had been wholly or partially
destroyed, either by shell fire or by the German soldiers in their great invasion before the
Marne. One shelled town is much like another, and there is no thrill quite like that you experience
when you see the first. But these towns had died nearly two years ago; indeed, in most the
resurrection had begun: little red roofs were beginning to shine through the brown trees and
stark ruins. Children played again in the squares. It was like the sense you have when you
see an old peasant ploughing among the cross-marked graves of a hard-fought battle corner--the
sense of a beginning as well as of death and destruction.

But at Verdun it was utterly different. Of life, or people, of activity beginning again or
surviving there was nothing. Some time in the recent past all the little people who lived in
these houses had put upon wagons what could be quickly moved and had slipped out of their home,
that was already under sentence of death. They were gone into the distance, and they had left
behind them no stragglers. The city was empty save for a few soldiers who passed rapidly along
the streets, as one marches in a heavy snowstorm.

Yet Verdun was not wholly dead. Shell fire is the most inexplicable of all things that carry
destruction. As you passed down one street the mark of destruction varied with each house.
Here the blast had come and cut the building squarely; it had carried with it into ruin behind
in the courtyard all that the house contained, but against the wall the telephone rested undisturbed;
pictures--possibly even a looking glass--hung as the inhabitants had left it, hung as perhaps
it had hung when the last woman had taken her ultimate hurried glance at her hat before she
departed into the outer darkness.

But the next house had lost only the front walls; it stood before you as if it had been opened
for your inspection by the removal of the façade. Chairs, beds--all the domestic economy of
the house--sagged visibly outward toward the street, or stood still firm, but open to the four
winds. It was as if the scene were prepared for a stage and you sat before the footlights looking
into the interior. Again, the next house and that beyond were utterly gone--side walls, front
walls, everything swallowed up and vanished--the iron work twisted into heaps, the stone work
crumbled to dust; the whole mass of ruin still smoked, for it was a shell of yesterday that
had done this work.

Down on the Riviera, where the mistral blows--all the pine trees lean away from the invariable
track of this storm wind--you have the sense, even in the summer months, of a whole countryside
bent by the gales. In the same fashion you felt in Verdun, felt rather than saw, a whole town
not bent, but crumbled, crushed--and the line of fall was always apparent; you could tell the
direction from which each storm of shells had come, you could almost feel that the storm was
but suspended, not over, that at any moment it might begin again.

Yet even in the midst of destruction there were enclaves of unshaken structures. On the Rue
Mazel, "Main Street," the chief clothing store rose immune amid ashes on all sides. Its huge
plate-glass window was not even cracked. And behind the window a little mannikin, one of the
familiar images that wear clothes to tempt the purchaser, stood erect. A French soldier had
crept in and raised the stiff arm of the mannikin to the salute, pushed back the hat to a rakish
angle. The mannikin seemed alive and more than alive, the embodiment of the spirit of the place.
Facing northward toward the German guns it seemed to respond to them with a "morituri salutamus."
"The last civilian in Verdun," the soldiers called him, but his manner was rather that of the
Poilu.

We crossed the river and the canal and stopped by the ruin of what had once been a big factory
or warehouse. We crawled through an open shell-made breach in the brick wall and stood in the
interior. The ashes were still hot, and in corners there were smoking fires. Two days ago,
at just this time, your guides told you, men had been working here; making bread, I think.
At the same time we had come to the ruins--the same time of day, that is--the Germans had dropped
a half-dozen incendiary shells into the building and it had burned in ten minutes. Most of
the men who had been there then were still there, under the smoking mass of wreckage; the smell
of burned human flesh was in the air.

A few steps away there was a little house standing intact. On the floor there were stretched
four rolls of white cloth. The General and those with him took off their hats as they entered.
He opened one of the packages and you saw only a charred black mass, something that looked
like a half-burned log taken from the fireplace. But two days ago it had been a man, and the
metal disk of identification had already been found and had served to disclose the victim's
name. These were the first bodies that had been removed from the ruins.

Taking our cars again we drove back and stopped before the Mairie, and passing under the arch
entered the courtyard. The building had fared better than most, but there were many shell marks.
In the courtyard were four guns. Forty-six years before another German army had come down from
the North, another whirlwind of artillery had struck the town and laid it in ashes, but even
under the ashes the town had held out for three weeks. Afterward the Republic of France had
given these guns to the people of Verdun in recognition of their heroism.

In the courtyard I was presented to a man wearing the uniform and helmet of a fireman. He was
the chief of the Verdun fire department. His mission, his perilous duty, it was to help extinguish
the fires that flamed up after every shell. In all my life I have never seen a man at once
so crushed and so patently courageous. He was not young, but his blue Lorraine eyes were still
clear. Yet he looked at you, he looked out upon the world with undisguised amazement. For a
generation his business had been to fight fires. He had protected his little town from conflagrations
that might sometimes, perhaps once, possibly twice, have risen to the dignity of a "three alarm."
For the rest he had dealt with blazes.

Now out of the skies and the darkness and out of the daylight, too, fire had descended upon
his town. Under an avalanche of incendiary shells, under a landslide of fire, his city was
melting visibly into ashes. He had lived fire and dreamed fire for half a century, but now
the world had turned to fire--his world--and he looked out upon it in dazed wonder. He could
no longer fight this fire, restrain it, conquer it; he could only go out under the bursting
shells and strive to minimize by some fraction the destruction; but it was only child's play,
this work of his which had been a man's business. And there was no mistaking the fact that
this world was now too much for him. He was a brave man; they told me of things he had done;
but his little cosmos had gone to chaos utterly.

We entered our cars again and went to another quarter of the city. Everywhere were ashes and
ruin, but everywhere the sense of a destruction that was progressive, not complete: it still
marched. It was as Arras had been, they told me, before the last wall had tumbled and the Artois
capital had become nothing but a memory. We climbed the slope toward the cathedral and stopped
in a little square still unscathed, the Place d'Armes, the most historic acre of the town.
After a moment I realized what my friends were telling me. It was in this square that the Crown
Prince was to receive the surrender of the town. Along the road we had climbed he was to lead
his victorious army through the town and out the Porte de France beyond. In this square the
Kaiser was to stand and review the army, to greet his victorious son. The scene as it had been
arranged was almost rehearsed for you in the gestures of the French officers.

"But William has not come," they said, "and he will not come now." This last was not spoken
as a boast, but as a faith, a conviction.

Still climbing we came to the cathedral. It is seated on the very top pinnacle of the rock
of Verdun, suggesting the French cities of Provence. Its two towers, severe and lacking ornamentation,
are the landmarks of the countryside for miles around. When I came back to America I read the
story of an American correspondent whom the Germans had brought down from Berlin to see the
destruction of Verdun. They had brought him to the edge of the hills and then thrown some incendiary
shells into the town, the very shells that killed the men whose bodies I had seen. The black
smoke and flames rushed up around these towers and then the Germans brought the correspondent
over the hills and showed him the destruction of Verdun. He described it vividly and concluded
that the condition of the town must be desperate.

They are a wonderful people, these Germans, in their stage management. Of course this was precisely
the thing that they desired that he should feel. They had sent their shells at the right moment,
the whole performance had gone off like clockwork. Those poor blackened masses of humanity
in the house below were the cost that was represented in the performance. And since there is
much still left to burn in Verdun, the Germans may repeat this thing whenever they desire.

But somewhere three or four miles from here, and between Verdun and the Germans, are many thousands
of Frenchmen, with guns and cannon, and hearts of even finer metal. They cannot even know that
Verdun is being shelled or is burning, and if it burns to ultimate ashes it will not affect
them or their lines. This is the fallacy of all the talk of the destruction of Verdun city
and the desperate condition of its defenders. The army left Verdun for the hills when the war
began; the people left when the present drive began in February. Even the dogs and cats, which
were seen by correspondents in earlier visits, have been rescued and sent away. Verdun is dead,
it is almost as dead as are Arras and Ypres; but neither of these towns after a year and a
half bombardment has fallen.

The correspondent who was taken up on a hill by the Germans to see Verdun burn, after it had
been carefully set on fire by shell fire, was discovered by French gunners and shelled. He
went away taking with him an impression of a doomed city. This picture was duly transmitted
to America. But two days later, when I visited the city, there was no evidence of desperation,
because there was no one left to be desperate. Doubtless on occasion we shall have many more
descriptions of the destruction of this town, descriptions meant to impress Americans or encourage
Germans. The material for such fires is not exhausted. The cathedral on the top of the hill
is hardly shell-marked at all, and it will make a famous display when it is fired as was Rheims,
as were the churches of Champagne and Artois. But there is something novel in the thought of
a city burned, not to make a Roman or even German holiday, but burned to make the world believe
that the Battle of Verdun had been a German victory.

For two hours we wandered about the town exploring and estimating the effect of heavy gunfire,
for the Germans are too far from the city to use anything but heavy guns effectively. The impressions
of such a visit are too numerous to recall. I shall mention but one more. Behind the cathedral
are cloisters that the guide books mention; they inclose a courtyard that was once decorated
with statues of saints. By some accident or miracle--there are always miracles in shelled towns--one
of these images, perhaps that of the Madonna, has been lifted from its pedestal and thrown
into the branches of a tree, which seems almost to hold it with outstretched arms.

At length we left the town, going out by the Porte de France, which cuts the old Vauban ramparts,
now as deserted as those of Paris, ramparts that had been covered with trees and were now strewn
with the débris of the trees that had fallen under the shell fire. In all this time not a shell
had fallen in Verdun; it was the first completely tranquil morning in weeks; but there was
always the sense of impending destruction, there was always the sense of the approaching shell.
There was an odd subconscious curiosity, and something more than curiosity, about the mental
processes of some men, not far away, who were beside guns pointed toward you, guns which yesterday
or the day before had sent their destruction to the very spot where you stood.

Yet, oddly enough, in the town there was a wholly absurd sense of security, derived from the
fact that there were still buildings between you and those guns. You saw that the buildings
went to dust and ashes whenever the guns were fired; you saw that each explosion might turn
a city block into ashes, and yet you were glad of the buildings and there was reassurance in
their shadows. Now we travelled in the open country; we began to climb across the face of a
bare hill, and it was the face that fronted the Germans.

Presently the General's car stuck in the mud and we halted, for a minute perhaps; then we went
on; we passed a dead horse lying in the road, then of a sudden came that same terrible grinding,
metallic crash. I have never seen any description of a heavy shell explosion that fitted it.
Behind us we could see the black smoke rising from the ground in a suburb through which we
had just come. I saw three explosions. A moment later we were at the gate of Fort de la Chaume,
and we were warned not to stop, but to hasten in, for the Germans, whenever they see cars at
this point, suspect that Joffre has arrived, or President Poincaré, and act accordingly. We
did not delay.

Fort de la Chaume is one of the many fortifications built since the Franco-Prussian War and
intended to defend the city. Like all the rest, it ceased to have value when the German artillery
had shown at Liège and at Namur that it was the master of the fort. Then the French left their
forts and went out to trenches beyond and took with them the heavy guns that the fort once
boasted. To-day Fort de la Chaume is just an empty shell, as empty as the old Vauban citadel
in the valley below. And what is true of this fort is true of all the other forts of that famous
fortress of Verdun, which is no longer a fortress, but a sector in the trench line that runs
from the North Sea to Switzerland.

From the walls of the fort staff officers showed me the surrounding country. I looked down
on the city of Verdun, hiding under the shadow of its cathedral. I looked across the level
Meuse Valley, with its little river; I studied the wall of hills beyond. Somewhere in the tangle
on the horizon was Douaumont, which the Germans held. Down the valley of the river in the haze
was the town of Bras, which was French; beyond it the village of Vachereauville, which was
German. Beyond the hills in the centre of the picture, but hidden by them, were Le Mort Homme
and Hill 304.

Verdun is like a lump of sugar in a finger bowl, and I was standing on the rim. It seemed utterly
impossible that any one should even think of this town as a fortress or count its ashes as
of meaning in the conflict.

Somewhere in the background a French battery of heavy guns was firing, and the sound was clear;
but it did not suggest war, rather a blasting operation. The German guns were still again.
There was a faint billowing roll of gunfire across the river toward Douaumont, but very faint.
As for trenches, soldiers, evidences of battle, they did not exist. I thought of Ralph Pulitzer's
vivid story of riding to the Rheims front in a military aeroplane and seeing, of war, just nothing.

The geography of the Verdun country unrolled before us with absolute clarity; the whole relation
of hills and river and railroads was unmistakable. But despite the faint sound of musketry,
the occasional roar of a French gun, I might have been in the Berkshires looking down on the
Housatonic. Six miles to the north around Le Mort Homme that battle which has not stopped for
two months was still going on. Around Douaumont the overture was just starting, the overture
to a stiff fight in the afternoon, but of all the circumstances of battle that one has read
of, that one still vaguely expects to see, there was not a sign. If it suited their fancy the
Germans could turn the hill on which I stood into a crater of ruin, as they did with Fort Loncin
at Liège. We were well within range, easy range; we lived because they had no object to serve
by such shooting, but we were without even a hint of their whereabouts.

I have already described the military geography of Verdun. I shall not attempt to repeat it
here, but it is the invisibility of warfare, whether examined from the earth or the air, which
impresses the civilian. If you go to the trenches you creep through tunnels and cavities until
you are permitted to peer through a peephole, and you see yellow dirt some yards away. You
may hear bullets over your head, you may hear shells passing, but what you see is a hillside
with some slashings. That is the enemy. If you go to an observation post back of the trenches,
then you will see a whole range of country, but not even the trenches of your own side.

From the Grand Mont east of Nancy I watched some French batteries shell the German line. I
didn't see the French guns, I didn't see the German trenches, I didn't see the French line.
I did see some black smoke rising a little above the underbrush, and I was told that the shells
were striking behind the German lines and that the gunners were searching for a German battery.
But I might as well have been observing a gang of Italians at blasting operations in the Montclair
Mountains. And the officer with me said: "Our children are just amusing themselves."

From Fort de la Chaume we rode back to the citadel; and there I was the guest of the General
and the officers of the town garrison; their guest because I was an American who came to see
their town. I shall always remember that luncheon down in the very depths of this rock in a
dimly lighted room. I sat at the General's right, and all around me were the men whose day's
work it was to keep the roads open, the machinery running in the shell-cursed city. Every time
they went out into daylight they knew that they might not return. For two months the storm
had beaten about this rock, it had written its mark upon all these faces, and yet it had neither
extinguished the light nor the laughter; the sense of strength and of calmness was inescapable,
and never have I known such charming, such thoughtful hosts.

When the champagne came the old General rose and made me a little speech. He spoke in English,
with absolute correctness, but as one who spoke it with difficulty. He welcomed me as an American
to Verdun, he thanked me for coming, he raised his glass to drink to my country and the hope
that in the right time she would be standing with France--in the cause of civilization. Always
in his heart, in his thought, in his speech, the Frenchman is thinking of that cause of civilization;
always this is what the terrible conflict that is eating up all France means to him.

Afterward we went out of this cavern into daylight, and the officers came and shook hands with
me and said good-bye. One does not say au revoir at the front; one says bonne chance--"good
luck; it may and it may not--we hope not." We entered our cars and were about to start, when
suddenly, with a blinding, stunning crash, a whole salvo landed in the meadow just beyond the
road, we could not see where, because some houses hid the field. It was the most suddenly appalling
crash I have ever heard.

Instantly the General ordered our drivers to halt. He explained that it might be the beginning
of a bombardment or only a single trial, a detail in the intermittent firing to cut the road
that we were to take. We sat waiting for several moments and no more shots came. Then the General
turned and gave an order to his car to follow, bade our drivers go fast, and climbed into my
car and sat down. The wandering American correspondent was his guest. He could not protect
him from the shell fire. He could not prevent it. But he could share the danger. He could share
the risk, and so he rode with me the mile until we passed beyond the danger zone. There he
gave me another bonne chance and left me, went back to his shell-cursed town with its ruins
and its agonies.

I hope I shall see General Dubois again. I hope it will be on the day when he is made Governor
of Strassburg.

As we left Verdun the firing was increasing; it was rolling up like a rising gale; the infantry
fire was becoming pronounced; the Germans were beginning an attack upon Le Mort Homme. Just
before sunset we passed through the Argonne Forest and came out beyond. On a hill to the north
against the sky the monument of Valmy stood out in clear relief, marking the hill where Kellerman
had turned back another Prussian army. Then we slipped down into the Plain of Châlons, where
other Frenchmen had met and conquered Attila. At dark we halted in Montmirail, where Napoleon
won his last victory before his empire fell. The sound of the guns we had left behind was still
in our ears and the meaning of these names in our minds. Presently my French companion said
to me: "It is a long time, isn't it?" He meant all the years since the first storm came out
of the north, and I think the same thought is in every Frenchman's mind. Then he told me his story.

"I had two boys," he said; "one was taken from me years ago in an accident; he was killed and
it was terrible. But the other I gave.

"He was shot, my last boy, up near Verdun, in the beginning of the war. He did not die at once
and I went to him. For twenty days I sat beside him in a cellar waiting for him to die. I bought
the last coffin in the village, that he might be buried in it, and kept it under my bed. We
talked many times before he died, and he told me all he knew of the fight, of the men about
him and how they fell.

"My name is finished, but I say to you now that in all that experience there was nothing that
was not beautiful." And as far as I can analyze or put in words the impression that I have
brought away from France, from the ruin and the suffering and the destruction, I think it is
expressed in those words. I have seen nothing that was not beautiful, too, because through
all the spirit of France shone clear and bright. This was said to me by General Delacroix,
one of Joffre's predecessors as chief of the French General Staff and the distinguished military
critic of the Paris Temps now that because of age he has passed to the retired list.

What General Delacroix meant was patent and must have already impressed many Americans. Our
own Gettysburg was the final bid for decision of a South which had long been victorious on
the battlefield, which still possessed the armies that seemed the better organized and the
generals whose campaigns had been wonderfully successful. But it was the bid for decision of
a Confederacy which was outnumbered in men, in resources, in the ultimate powers of endurance,
and was already beginning to feel the growing pinch both in numbers and credit.

