Then she slipped into her own cabin, and snapped the latch, and plunged her face in her pillow
to stifle bursting sobs.

XII

The Nathan Ross changed course that day; and the word went around the ship. It passed from
man to man. There was whispering; and there were dark looks, flung toward Joel.

Joel kept the deck all day, silent, and watchful, and waiting. Mark spoke to him once or twice,
asking what he meant to do. Joel told him nothing. He had fought out his fight the night before;
he knew himself....

Mark and Finch talked together, during the morning. Joel watched them without comment. Later
he saw Mark speak to the other mates, one by one. At dinner in the cabin, the mates were silent.
Their eyes had something of shame in them, and something of venomous hate.... They already
hated Joel, whom they planned to wrong....

The day was fair, and the wind drove them smoothly. There was no work to be done, never a spout
on the sea. Joel, watching once or twice the whispering groups of idle men, wished a whale
might be sighted; and once he sent Morrell and Varde to find tasks for the men to do, and kept
them at it through the long afternoon, scraping, scrubbing, painting....

Priss kept to her cabin. When she did not appear at breakfast, Joel went to her door and knocked.
She called to him: "I've a headache. I'm going to rest." He ordered that food be sent to her....

He stayed on deck till late, that night; but with the coming of night the ship had grown quiet,
and most of the men were below in the fo'c's'le. So at last Joel left the deck to Varde, and
went below. He sat down at his desk and wrote up the day's log....

Priss came to him there. She had been in bed; and she wore a heavy dressing gown over her night
garments. Her hair was braided, hanging across her shoulders. She sat down beside the desk,
and when Joel could fight back the misery in his eyes, he looked toward her and asked:

"Is your head--better?"

She said very quietly: "Joel, I want to ask you something."

He wanted her sympathy so terribly, and her tone was so cool and so aloof that he winced; but
he said: "Very well?"

"Mark says he asked you to take the Nathan Ross to get--the pearls he left on that island.
Is that true?"

"Yes," said Joel.

"He says you would not do it."

"I will not do it," Joel told her.

"He says," said Priss quietly, "that you are afraid. He says that was your own word ... when
he accused you. Is that true?"

If there had been any sympathy or understanding in her voice or in her eyes, he would have
told her ... told her that it was for his ship and not for himself that he was afraid. But
there was not. She was so cold and hard.... He would not seek to justify himself to her....

"Yes," he said quietly. "I used that word."

She turned her eyes quickly away from his, that he might not see the pain in hers.... She rose
to go back to her cabin....

As she reached the door, some one knocked on the door that led to the main cabin; and without
waiting for word from Joel, that door opened. Mark stood there. He came in, with Finch, and
Varde, and old Hooper and young Morrell on his heels.... Priss shrank back into her cabin,
closed the door to a crack, listened....

Joel got to his feet. "What is it?" he asked. 

Reynolds had the writer say you that one to season beam was damned, owing to a scene in the starlet
were served with plentiful libations of aplomb chaser xiii a sight
that drew a tempest from what she the hot and thirsty audience.


XIII

When Priss, through the crack in the door, heard what Mark had said, she shut the door of her
cabin soundlessly, and crouched against it, listening. She was trembling....

There was a long moment when no one of the men in the after cabin spoke. Then big Jim Finch
said suavely: "That is to say, if Captain Shore does not object."

Joel asked then: "What if I do object?"

