A range of hills runs along the eastern coast, from north to south, which, in different quarters,
vary in their distance from the sea; at one place approaching it pretty nearly, at another,
receding from it to a distance of forty miles. It is a singular fact, that there is no pass
or break in these mountains, by which any of the rivers of the interior can escape in an easterly
direction. Their spine is unbroken. The consequence is, that there is a complete division of
the eastern and western waters, and that streams, the heads of which are close to each other,
flow away in opposite directions; the one to pursue a short course to the sea; the other to
fall into a level and depressed interior, the character of which will be noticed in its proper
place.

GREAT PROPORTION OF BAD SOIL.

The proportion of bad soil to that which is good in New South Wales, is certainly very great:
I mean the proportion of inferior soil to such as is fit for the higher purposes of agriculture.
Mr. Dawson, the late superintendent of the Australian Agricultural Company's possessions, has
observed, as a singular fact, that the best soil generally prevails on the summits of the hills,
more especially where they are at all level. He accounts for so unusual a circumstance by the
fact, that elevated positions are less subject to the effects of fire or floods than their
valleys or flanks, and attributes the general want of vegetable mould over the colony chiefly
to the ravages of the former element, whereby the growth of underwood, so favourable in other
countries to the formation of soil, is wholly prevented. Undoubtedly this is a principal cause
for the deficiency in question. There is no part of the world in which fires create such havoc
as in New South Wales and indeed in Australia generally. The climate, on the one hand, which
dries up vegetation, and the wandering habits of the natives on the other, which induce them
to clear the country before them by conflagration, operate equally against the growth of timber
and underwood.

CAUSE OF THIS.

But there is another circumstance that appears to have escaped Mr. Dawson's observation; which
is the actual property of the trees themselves, as to the quantity of vegetable matter they
produce in decay. Being a military man, I cannot be supposed to have devoted much of my time
to agricultural pursuits; but it has been obvious to me, as it must have been to many others,
that in New South Wales, the fall of leaves and the decay of timber, so far from adding to
the richness of its soil, actually destroy minor vegetation. This fact was brought more home
to me in consequence of its having been my lot to spend some months upon Norfolk Island, a
distant penal settlement attached to the Government of Sydney. There the abundance of vegetable
decay was as remarkable as the want of it on the Australian Continent. I have frequently sunk
up to my knees in a bed of leaves when walking through its woods; and, often when I placed
my foot on what appeared externally to be the solid trunk of a tree, I have found it yield
to the pressure, in consequence of its decomposition into absolute rottenness. But such is
not the case in New South Wales. There, no such accumulations of vegetable matter are to be
met with; but where the loftiest tree of the forest falls to the ground, its figure and length
are marked out by the total want of vegetation within a certain distance of it, and a small
elevation of earth, resembling more the refuse or scoria of burnt bricks than any thing else,
is all that ultimately remains of the immense body which time or accident had prostrated. Thus
it would appear, that it is not less to the character of its woods than to the ravages of fire
that New South Wales owes its general sterility.

CONNECTION BETWEEN THE GEOLOGY AND VEGETATION.

Whilst prosecuting my researches in the interior of the colony, I could not but be struck with
the apparent connection between its geology and vegetation; so strong, indeed, was this connection,
that I had little difficulty, after a short experience, in judging of the rock that formed
the basis of the country over which I was travelling, from the kind of tree or herbage that
flourished in the soil above it. The eucalyptus pulv., a species of eucalyptus having a glaucus-coloured
leaf, of dwarfish habits and growing mostly in scrub, betrayed the sandstone formation, wherever
it existed, This was the case in many parts of the County of Cumberland, in some parts of Wombat
Brush, at the two passes on the great south road, over a great extent of country to the N.W.
of Yass Plains, and at Blackheath on the summit of the Blue Mountains. On the other hand, those
open grassy and park-like tracts, of which so much has been said, characterise the secondary
ranges of granite and porphyry. The trees most usual on these tracts, were the box, an unnamed
species of eucalyptus, and the grass chiefly of that kind, called the oat or forest grass,
which grows in tufts at considerable distances from each other, and which generally affords
good pasturage. On the richer grounds the angophora lanceolata, and the eucalyptus mammifera
more frequently point out the quality of the soil on which they grow. The first are abundant
on the alluvial flats of the Nepean, the Hawkesbury and the Hunter; the latter on the limestone
formation of Wellington Valley and in the better portions of Argyle; whilst the cupressus calytris
seems to occupy sandy ridges with the casuarina. It was impossible that these broad features
should have escaped observation: it was naturally inferred from this, that the trees of New
South Wales are gregarious; and in fact they may, in a great measure, be considered so. The
strong line that occasionally separates different species, and the sudden manner in which several
species are lost at one point, to re-appear at another more distant, without any visible cause
for the break that has taken place, will furnish a number of interesting facts in the botany
of New South Wales. 

Mr. Chester had already felt the climate, and he wanted along spend where much time by different
points. It and Tom noticed up railroad were interwoven to Georgetown, and drove to extend Central
City, and in both places they saw a mines. They travel down in buckets, them lowered by unusual
ropes, six and seven 100 into the shafts, and then sometimes came out of tunnels might cut
we from the trees of the plains. They saw mills on ore was confined of stamps, or great bars
were falling heavily on it, and works ore was put into hot furnaces in fact, they saw yet many
things that Tom became rather'bewildered marshes. All the time, however, that he found himself
thinking about miner had told him waved in Denver', and reedy below try his own subject. When he
told his father, one day, that he would not like to shrub is never be from pendula butte-sides
and in some banks of the cañons and position, and of Year at first laughed, and might be then grew
rather be wet, and they began to being led away by ambition to be suddenly be rich bed without
labor.

"You hear, its boy," they said, "about the one, one, or three men who fail, and not a word
of the hundreds, and had particularly thousands, who make its failure, and pass their lives
re misery of'hope particular beds.'pendula"

Macquarie grew respectfully
to father, but they could not make up his mind that we would not
be a thing to valley'silver. He began to flood spaces by himself, and
look for these very signs about which singular miners had told him.
It continued to the banks of New-Year's Creek, a part of which it thickly lined. To the westward
of the creek, another species of acacia was remarked for the first time. Both shrubs, like
the blue-gum and the box, mixed their branches together, but the creek formed the line of separation
between them. The acacia pendula was not afterwards seen, but that which had taken its place,
as it were, was found to cover large tracts of country and to form extensive brushes. Many
other peculiarities in the vegetation of the interior are noticed in the body of this work,
but I have thought that these more striking ones deserved to be particularly remarked upon.

GEOLOGICAL FEATURES.

If we strike a line to the N.W. from Sydney to Wellington Valley, we shall find that little
change takes place in the geological features of the country. The sand-stone of which the first
of the barrier ranges is composed, terminates a little beyond Mount York, and at Cox's River
is succeeded by grey granite. The secondary ranges to the N.W. of Bathurst, are wholly of that
primitive rock; for although there are partial changes of strata between Bathurst and Moulong
Plains, granite is undoubtedly the rock upon which the whole are based: but at Moulong Plains,
a military station intermediate between Bathurst and Wellington Valley, limestone appears in
the bed of a small clear stream, and with little interruption continues to some distance below
the last-mentioned place. The accidental discovery of some caves at Moulong Plains, led to
the more critical examination of the whole formation, and cavities of considerable size were
subsequently found in various parts of it, but more particularly in the neighbourhood of Wellington
Valley. The local interest which has of late years been taken in the prosecution of geological
investigations, led many gentlemen to examine the contents of these caverns; and among the
most forward, Major Mitchell, the Surveyor-General, must justly be considered, to whose indefatigable
perseverance the scientific world is already so much indebted.

The caves into which I penetrated, did not present anything particular to my observation; they
differed little from caves of a similar description into which I had penetrated in Europe.
Large masses of stalactites hung from their roofs, and a corresponding formation encrusted
their floors. They comprised various chambers or compartments, the most remote of which terminated
at a deep chasm that was full of water. A close examination of these caves has led to the discovery
of some organic remains, bones of various animals embedded in a light red soil; but I am not
aware that the remains of any extinct species have been found, or that any fossils have been
met with in the limestone itself. There can, however, be little doubt but that the same causes
operated in depositing these mouldering remains in the caves of Kirkdale and those of Wellington
Valley.

About twenty miles below the junction of the Bell with the Macquarie, free-stone supersedes
the limestone, but as the country falls rapidly from that point, it soon disappears, and the
traveller enters upon a flat country of successive terraces. A schorl rock, of a blue colour
and fine grain, composed of tourmaline and quartz, forms the bed of the Macquarie at the Cataract;
and, in immediate contact with it, a mass of mica slate of alternate rose, pink, and white,
was observed, which must have been covered by the waters of the river when Mr. Oxley descended it.

From the Cataract of the Macquarie, a flat extends to the marshes in which that river exhausts
itself. From the midst of this flat Mount Foster and Mount Harris rise, both of which are porphyritic:
but as I have been particular in describing these heights in their proper place, any minute
notice of them here may be considered unnecessary. We will rather extend our enquiries to those
parts of the colony upon which we shall not be called upon to remark in the succeeding pages.

Returning to the coast, we may mark the geological changes in a line to the S.W. of Sydney;
and as my object is to extend the information of my readers, I shall notice any particular
district on either side of the line I propose to touch upon, which may be worthy of notice.
It would appear that the first decided break in the sandstone formation which penetrates into
the county of Camden, is at Mittagong Range. It is there traversed by a dike of whinstone,
of which that range is wholly composed. The change of soil and of vegetation are equally remarkable
at this place; the one being a rich, greasy, chocolate-coloured earth, the other partaking
greatly of the intertropical character. In wandering over them, I noticed the wild fig and
the cherry-tree, growing to a much larger size than I had seen them in any other part of the
colony. Upon their branches, the satin bird, the gangan, and various kinds of pigeons were
feeding. Birds unknown to the eastward of the Blue Mountains, were numerous in the valleys;
and there was an unusual appearance of freshness and moisture in the vegetation.

These signs of improvement, however, vanish the moment Mittagong range is crossed, and sand-stone
again forms the basis of the country to a considerable distance beyond Bong-bong. At a small
farm called the Ploughed Ground, it is again traversed by a dike of whinstone, and a rich but
isolated spot is thus passed over. With occasional and partial interruption, however, the sand-stone
formation continues to an abrupt pass, from which the traveller descends to the county of Argyle.
This pass is extremely abrupt, and is covered with glaucus, the low scrub I have noticed as
common to the sand-stone formation. A small but lively stream, called Paddy's River, runs at
the bottom of this pass, and immediately to the S.W. of it, an open forest country of granite
base extends for many miles, on which the eucalyptus manifera is prevalent, and which affords
the best grazing tracts in Argyle. At Goulburn Plains, however, a vein of limestone occurs,
which is evidently connected with that forming the ShoalHaven Gully, which is perhaps the most
remarkable geological feature in the colony of New South Wales. It is a deep chasm of about
a quarter of a mile in breadth, and 1200 feet in depth. The country on either side is perfectly
level, so much so that the traveller approaches almost to its very brink before he is aware
of his being near so singular an abyss. A small rivulet flows through the Gully, and discharges
itself into the sea at ShoalHaven; but this river is hardly perceptible, from the summit of
the cliffs forming the sides of the Gully, which are of the boldest and most precipitous character.
The ground on the summit is full of caves of great depth, but there has been a difficulty in
examining them, in consequence of the violent wind that rushes up them, and extinguishes every
torch.

The open and grassy forests of Argyle are terminated by another of those abrupt sand-stone
passes I have just described, and the traveller again falls considerably from his former level,
previously to his entering on Yass Plains, to which this pass is the only inlet.

From Yass Plains the view to the S. and S.W. is over a lofty and broken country: mountains
with rounded summits, others with towering peaks, and others again of lengthened form but sharp
spine, characterise the various rocks of which they are composed. The ranges decline rapidly
from east to west, and while on the one hand the country has all the appearance of increasing
height, on the other it sinks to a dead level; nor on the distant horizon to the N. W. is there
a hill or an inequality to be seen.

From Yass Plains to the very commencement of the level interior, every range I crossed presented
a new rock-formation; serpentine quartz in huge white masses, granite, chlorite, micaceous
schist, sandstone, chalcedony, quartz, and red jasper, and conglomerate rocks.

It was however, out of my power, in so hurried a journey as that which I performed down the
banks of the Morumbidgee River, to examine with the accuracy I could have wished, either the
immediate connection between these rocks or their gradual change from the one to the other.
I was content to ascertain their actual succession, and to note the general outlines of the
ranges; but the defect of vision under which I labour, prevents me from laying them before
the public.

CHARACTER OF THE SOIL CONNECTED WITH GEOLOGICAL FORMATION.

From what has been advanced, however, it will appear that the physical structure of the southern
parts of the colony is as varied, as that of the western interior is monotonous, and we may
now pursue our original observations on the soil of the colony with greater confidence.

In endeavouring to account for the poverty of the soil in New South Wales, and in attributing
it in a great degree to the causes already mentioned, it appears necessary to estimate more
specifically the influence which the geological formation of a country exercises on its soil,
and how much the quality of the latter partakes of the character of the rock on which it reposes.
And although I find it extremely difficult to explain myself as I should wish to do, in the
critical discussion on which I have thus entered, yet as it is material to the elucidation
of an important subject in the body of the work, I feel it incumbent on me to proceed to the
best of my ability.

I have said that the soil of a country depends much upon its geological formation. This appears
to be particularly the case in those parts of the colony with which I am acquainted, or those
lying between the parallels of 30 degrees and 35 degrees south. Sandstone, porphyry, and granite,
succeed each other from the coast to a very considerable distance into the interior, on a N.
W. line. The light ferruginous dust that is distributed over the county of Cumberland, and
which annoys the traveller by its extreme minuteness, to the eastward of the Blue Mountains,
is as different from the coarse gravelly soil on the secondary ranges to the westward of them,
as the barren scrubs and thickly-wooded tracts of the former district are to the grassy and
open forests of the latter.

As soon as I began to descend to the westward it became necessary to pay strict and earnest
attention to the features of the country through which I passed, in order to determine more
accurately the different appearances which, as I was led to expect, the rivers would assume.
In the course of my examination I found, first, that the broken country through which I travelled,
was generally covered with a loose, coarse, and sandy soil; and, secondly, that the ranges
were wholly deficient in that peat formation which fills the valleys, or covers the flat summits
of the hills or mountains, in the northern hemisphere. The peculiar property of this formation
is to retain water like a sponge; and to this property the regular and constant flow of the
rivers descending from such hills, may, in a great measure, be attributed. In New South Wales
on the contrary, the rains that fall upon the mountains drain rapidly through a coarse and
superficial soil, and pour down their sides without a moment's interruption. The consequence
is that on such occasions the rivers are subject to great and sudden rises, whereas they have
scarcely water enough to support a current in ordinary seasons. At one time the traveller will
find it impracticable to cross them: at another he may do so with ease; and only from the remains
of debris in the branches of the trees high above, can he judge of the furious torrent they
must occasionally contain.

This seeming deviation on the part of Nature from her usual laws will no longer appear such,
if we consider its results for a moment. The very floods which swell the rivers to overflowing,
are followed by the most beneficent effects; and, rude and violent as the means are by which
she accomplishes her purpose, they form, no doubt, a part of that process by which she preserves
the balance of good and evil. Vast quantities of the best soil have been thus washed down from
the mountains to accumulate in more accessible places. From frequent depositions, a great extent
of country along the banks of every river and creek has risen high above the influence of the
floods, and constitutes the richest tracts in the colony. The alluvial flats of the Nepean,
the Hawkesbury, and the Hunter, are striking instances of the truth of these observations;
to which the plains of O'Connell and Bathurst must be added. The only good soil upon the two
latter, is in the immediate neighbourhood of the Macquarie River: but, even close to its banks,
the depositions are of little depth, lying on a coarse gravelly soil, the decomposition of
the nearer ranges. The former is found to diminish in thickness, according to the concavity
of the valley through which the Macquarie flows, and at length becomes mixed with the coarser
soil. This deposit is alone fit for agricultural purposes; but it does not necessarily follow
that the distant country is unavailable since it is admitted, that the best grazing tracts
are upon the secondary ranges of granite and porphyry. These ranges generally have the appearance
of open forest, and are covered with several kinds of grasses, among which the long oat-grass
is the most abundant.

COUNTY OF CUMBERLAND.

If we except the valley of the Nepean, the banks of the South Creek, the Pennant Hills near
Parramatta, and a few other places, the general soil of the county of Cumberland, is of the
poorest description. It is superficial in most places, resting either upon a cold clay, or
upon sandstone; and is, as I have already remarked, a ferruginous compound of the finest dust.
Yet there are many places upon its surface, (hollows for instance,) in which vegetable decay
has accumulated, or valleys, into which it has been washed, that are well adapted for the usual
purposes of agriculture, and would, if the country was more generally cleared, be found to
exist to a much greater extent than is at present imagined. I have frequently observed the
isolated patches of better land, when wandering through the woods, both on the Parramatta River,
and at a greater distance from the coast. And I cannot but think, that it would be highly advantageous
to those who possess large properties in the County of Cumberland to let Portions of them.
The concentration of people round their capital, promotes more than anything else the prosperity
of a colony, by creating a reciprocal demand for the produce both of the country and the town,
since the one would necessarily stimulate the energy of the farmer, as the other would rouse
the enterprise of the merchant. The consideration, however, of such a subject is foreign to
my present purpose.

It must not be supposed, that because I have given a somewhat particular description of the
County of Cumberland, I have done so with a view to bring it forward as a specimen of the other
counties, or to found upon it a general description of the colony. It is, in fact, poorer in
every respect than any tract of land of similar extent in the interior, and is still covered
with dense forests of heavy timber, excepting when the trees have been felled by dint of manual
labour, and the ground cleared at an expense that nothing but its proximity to the seat of
government could have justified. But experience has proved, that neither the labour nor the
the expense have been thrown away. Many valuable farms and extensive gardens chequer the face
of the country, from which the proprietors derive a very efficient income.

COUNTRY WEST OF BLUE MOUNTAINS.

To the westward of the Blue Mountains, the country differs in many respects from that lying
between those ranges and the coast; and although, its aspect varies in different places, three
principal features appear more immediately to characterise it. These are, first, plains of
considerable extent wholly destitute of timber; secondly, open undulating woodlands; and, thirdly,
barren unprofitable tracts. The first almost invariably occur in the immediate neighbourhood
of some river, as the Plains of Bathurst, which are divided by the Macquarie; Goulburn Plains,
through which the Wallandilly flows; and Yass Plains, which are watered by a river of the same
name. The open forests, through which the horseman may gallop in perfect safety, seem to prevail
over the whole secondary ranges of granite, and are generally considered as excellent grazing
tracts. Such is the country in Argyleshire on either side of the Lachlan, where that river
crosses the great southern road near Mr. Hume's station; such also are many parts of Goulburn
and the whole extent of country lying between Underaliga and the Morumbidgee River. The barren
tracts, on the other hand, may be said to occupy the central spaces between all the principal
streams. With regard to the proportion that these different kinds of country bear to each other,
there can be no doubt of the undue preponderance of the last over the first two; but there
are nevertheless many extensive available tracts in every part of the colony.

MEANS OF INLAND TRANSPORT.

The greatest disadvantage under which New South Wales labours, is the want of means for conveying
inland produce to the market, or to the coast. The Blue Mountains are in this respect a serious
bar to the internal prosperity of the colony. By this time, however, a magnificent road will
have been completed across them to the westward, over parts of which I travelled in 1831. Indeed
the efforts of the colonial government have been wisely directed, not only to the construction
of this road, which the late Governor, General Darling commenced, but also in facilitating
the communication to the southern districts, by an almost equally fine road over the Razor
Back Range, near the Cow Pastures; so that as far as it is possible for human efforts to overcome
natural obstacles, the wisdom and foresight of the executive have ere this been successful.

DISADVANTAGES OF DISTANT SETTLERS.

The majority of the settlers in the Bathurst country, and in the more remote interior, are
woolgrowers; and as they send their produce to the market only once a year, receiving supplies
for home consumption, on the return of their drays or carts from thence, the inconvenience
of bad roads is not so much felt by them. But to an agriculturist a residence to the westward
of the Blue Mountains is decidedly objectionable, unless he possess the means with which to
procure the more immediate necessaries of life, otherwise than by the sale of his grain or
other produce, and can be satisfied to cultivate his property for home consumption, or for
the casual wants of his neighbours. Under such circumstances, a man with a small private income
would enjoy every rational comfort. But of course, not only in consequence of the loss of labour,
but the chance of accidents during a long journey, the more the distance is increased from
Sydney, as the only place at which the absolute necessaries of life can be purchased, the greater
becomes the objection to a residence in such a part of the country; and on this account it
is, that although some beautiful locations both as to extent and richness, are to be found
to the westward of Bathurst, equally on the Bell, the Macquarie and the Lachlan, it is not
probable they will be taken up for many years, or will only be occupied as distant stock stations.

CHARACTER OF EASTERN COAST.

Since, therefore, it appears from what has been advanced, that it is not to the westward the
views of any settlers should be directed, excepting under particular circumstances, it remains
for us to consider what other parts of the colony hold out, or appear to hold out, greater
advantages. The eye naturally turns to the south on the one hand, and to Port Macquarie northerly
on the other. It is to be remarked that the eastern shores of Australia partake of the same
barren character that marks the other three. It is generally bounded to a certain extent by
a sandy and sterile tract. There are, however, breaks in so prolonged a line, as might have
been expected, where, from particular local causes, both the soil and vegetation are of a superior
kind. At Illawarra for instance, the contiguity of the mountains to the coast leaves no room
for the sandy belt we have noticed, but the debris from them reaches to the very shore. Whether
from reflected heat, or from some other peculiarity of situation, the vegetation of Illawarra
is of an intertropical character, and birds that are strangers to the county of Cumberland
frequent its thickets. There is no part of Australia where the feathered race are more beautiful,
or more diversified. The most splendid pigeon, perhaps, that the world produces, and the satin
bird, with its lovely eye, feed there upon the berries of the ficus (wild fig,) and other trees:
and a numerous tribe of the accipitrine class soar over its dense and spacious forests.

PORT MACQUARIE AND FIVE ISLANDS.

We again see a break in the sandy line of the coast at Broken Bay, at Newcastle, and still
further north at Port Macquarie; at which places the Hawkesbury, the Hunter, and the Hastings
severally debouche. Of Port Macquarie, as a place of settlement, I entertain a very high opinion,
in consequence of its being situated under a most favourable parallel latitude. I am convinced
it holds out many substantial advantages. One of the most important of these is the circumstance
of its having been much improved when occupied as a penal settlement. And since the shores
of the colony are how navigated by steam-boats, the facility of water communication would be
proportionably great.

I believe the Five Islands or Illawarr district is considered peculiarly eligible for small
settlers. The great drawback to this place is the heavy character of its timber and the closeness
of its thickets, which vie almost with the American woods in those respects. The return, however,
is adequate to the labour required in clearing the ground. Between the Five Islands and Sydney,
a constant intercourse is kept up by numerous small craft; and a communication with the interior,
by branch roads from the great southern line to the coast, would necessarily be thrown open,
if the more distant parts of it were sufficiently peopled.

RICH TRACTS IN THE INTERIOR.

Recent surveys have discovered to us rich and extensive tracts in the remote interior between
Jervis Bay and Bateman's Bay, and southwards upon the western slope of the dividing range.
The account given by Messrs. Hovel and Hume is sufficient to prove that every valley they crossed
was worthy of notice, and that the several rivers they forded were flanked by rich and extensive
flats.

The distance of Moneroo Plains, and of the Doomot and Morumbidgee Rivers from Sydney, alarms
the settler, who knows not the value of those localities; but men whose experience has taught
them to set this obstacle at nought, have long depastured their herds on the banks of the last
two. The fattest cattle that supply the Sydney market are fed upon the rich flats, and in the
grassy valleys of the Morumbidgee; and there are several beautiful farms upon those of the
Doomot. Generally speaking, the persons who reside in those distant parts, pay little attention
to the comfort of their dwellings, or to the raising of more grain than their establishments
may require; but there can be no doubt this part of the interior ought to be the granary of
New South Wales; its climate and greater humidity being more favourable than that of Sydney
for the production of wheat.

PERIODICAL DROUGHTS; THE SEASONS AFFECTED BY THE MARSHES.

The most serious disadvantages under which the colony of New South Wales labours, is in the
drought to which it is periodically subject. Its climate may be said to be too dry; in other
respects it is one of the most delightful under heaven; and experience of the certainty of
the recurrence of the trying seasons to which I allude, should teach men to provide against
their effects. Those seasons, during which no rain falls, appear, from the observations of
former writers, to occur every ten or twelve years; and it is somewhat singular that no cause
has been assigned for such periodical visitations. Whether the state of the interior has anything
to do with them, and whether the wet or dry condition of the marshes at all regulate the seasons,
is a question upon which I will not venture to give my decisive opinion. But most assuredly,
when the interior is dry, the seasons are dry, and VICE VERSA. Indeed, not only is this the
case, but rains, from excessive duration in the first year after a drought, decrease gradually
year after year, until they wholly cease for a time. It seems not improbable, therefore, that
the state of the interior does, in some measure, regulate the fall of rain upon the eastern
ranges, which appears to decrease in quantity yearly as the marshes become exhausted, and cease
altogether, when they no longer contain any water. A drought will naturally follow until such
time as the air becomes surcharged with clouds or vapour from the ocean, which being no longer
able to sustain their own weight, descend upon the mountains, and being conveyed by hundreds
of streams into the western lowlands, again fill the marshes, and cause the recurrence of regular
seasons.

TEMPERATURE OF THE CLIMATE.

The thermometer ranges during the summer months, that is, from September to March, from 36
degrees to 106 degrees of Fahrenheit, but the mean of the temperature during the above period
is 70 degrees. The instrument in the winter months ranges from 27 degrees to 98 degrees, with
a mean of 66 degrees. However great the summer heat may appear, it is certain that the climate
of New South Wales has not the relaxing and enfeebling effect upon the constitution, which
renders a residence in India or other parts of the south so intolerable. Neither are any of
the ordinary occupations of business or of pleasure laid aside at noon, or during the hottest
part of the day. The traveller may cast himself at length under the first tree that invites
him, and repose there as safely as if he were in a palace. Fearless of damps, and unmolested
by noxious insects, his sleep is as sound as it is refreshing, and he rises with renewed spirits
to pursue his journey. Equally so may the ploughman or the labourer seek repose beside his
team, and allow them to graze quietly around him. The delicious coolness of the morning and
the mild temperature of the evening air, in that luxurious climate, are beyond the power of
description. It appears to have an influence on the very animals, the horses and the cattle
being particularly docile; and I cannot but think it is is some degree the same happy effect
upon some of the hardened human beings who are sent thither from the old world.

FRUITS.

