Here Walter stopped and looked at his father to see what effect his speech was having on him,
also because he thought he had said enough for one time. But his father was leaning slightly
forward and had been drinking in every word the boy was saying, as he was fully convinced that
his son did not of himself know all these things about the Bible, and, consequently, it must
be that he was inspired.

The mother had the same opinion, so did not care to interrupt him.

Walter continued looking from one to the other not knowing what to make of their silence and
the knowing look which passed between them, as he did not know that they thought him inspired.

At length the father, said, "Walter, do you know what is meant by the word 'tree' in that verse?"

"I think I do, father; to me it stands for the word, 'thought,' for this seems to bring out
the spiritual meaning of the verse; for instance, if we would read the verse this way, 'Every
thought that is pleasant to the sight, i. e., understanding, and good for food, the thought
of life also in the midst of the garden and the thought or belief in good and evil'; this may
not be correct, but it at least makes it plain to me. And when we remember that Adam and Eve
were allowed to eat of all the trees excepting this tree of knowledge of good and evil, it
seems to me that they were forbidden to believe that both good and evil were real, in other
words, to believe that both spirit and matter existed; for as soon as they would eat or believed
in materiality the penalty would be death, as they were believing in something that did not
in reality exist. This false belief must in the end inevitably result in death or annihilation,
as it is this false belief of life as existent in matter, or material body, that dies and is
annihilated, for the real or spiritual man cannot die."

"What do you mean by spiritual man?"

"The Bible says: 'God is omniscient, omnipresent, omnipotent.' Let us define this word omniscient.
In a common sense way, 'omni' means all, and 'scientia' means science, then it would be proper
to say, 'God is all science, and science is perfect intelligence,' for the scientific reality
concerning anything, is the perfect intelligence pertaining thereto. We can now say, 'God is
all intelligence,' the word 'all' includes our intelligence, then God is the intelligence,
the thinking ability, or mind, of man."

"Walter, do you wish to intimate that the brain is God?"

"No, father, the brain cannot think."

"Walter, this is nonsense, of course the brain thinks, we certainly do not think with our hands
or feet."

"Just a moment, father, and we will see if the brain has the ability to think. Supposing we
take it out and lay it on a platter, does it think?" "Certainly not, it is not in its proper
place," said his father.

"It seems to me, that if the brain had the ability in itself to think, it could do so no matter
what place it occupied."

"No, Walter, that would not be a fair illustration."

"All right father, we will now take another example. Say a man should drop dead on the street
from apoplexy; there lies his material body, his brain occupies its accustomed place, not having
been disturbed at all, yet you would not say that his brain had the ability to think?"

"But the man was dead, life had flown," said Mr. Williams.

"Then it is Life that has in itself the ability to think, for everything else is there, in
its proper place, and what is the life of a man but his consciousness, his intelligence, his
mind. Now we have arrived at the same point in our reasoning where we were before, that God
is Mind, intelligence, the Life of man, and that brains cannot think. You see, father, the
brain is also matter, the same as the rest of our material body, that is, dust, or as I explained
before, nothing; an illusion, or false conception."

"Do you mean to say I have no body at all?"

"No, father, what I mean is that man has taken a false view of his body by thinking it material
when in reality it is spiritual, as is all the rest of the universe; for God, Spirit could
not make a material world, as matter is the opposite of spirit."

The Rev. Mr. Williams leaned his head on his hand and was thinking deeply. Could Walter's explanation
be the truth? He could see when what we called death occurred the consciousness, intelligence,
or what we called life, seemed to leave the body and thereafter the body was inanimate, and
in time returned to dust. Reasoning from this standpoint, he could agree that life and intelligence
were the same, and that the intelligence of man was his mind was also plain, but that Mind
was God, was beyond his comprehension, because he had always conceived of mind and brain as
being the same, consequently, that the brain had the power of thought. Yet Walter's explanation
concerning the inability of the brain, in the corpse, to think, and that it was as material
as the rest of the body was quite convincing that brain, in itself, did not contain the power
of thought. Was the boy right regarding the word omniscient? If so, it would be very easy to
agree with him when he said that God was the intelligence or mind of man; he, himself, believed
in an all intelligent creator.

Walter all this while had been waiting for his father or mother to express themselves, as they
did not, he said: "If we can agree that Mind is God, then it is very easy to conceive of man
as the image and likeness of God, and this image would be spiritual and not material."

His father looked up at him but did not speak. His mother said: "How would that help it, Walter?"

"If we reason from the standpoint that Mind is the creative force or first cause, and as we
know that like produces like, it would be impossible for the creative force, or Mind, to produce
matter, for matter is the opposite of mind. Now let us see what Mind does create,--why thoughts
or ideas and nothing else, so we see that man is a thought, or a number of them, or idea emanating
from the one Mind or creative force and the idea or thought must be the image and likeness
of the mind or intelligence that conceived it. This would give us a spiritual man, who in reality
would be the image and likeness of the real God."

"Walter," said his father, "I cannot stand to hear any more to-night, I will not say that you
are right or wrong, as I must have time to think, and the more I hear you say, the more in
the dark I seem to be, besides it is getting quite late and it is time we were retiring."

"I hope you are not angry for my presuming to explain the Bible as I see it, for I believe
I am right; in fact, I have had proof sufficient to convince me that it cannot be otherwise."

"No Walter, I am not angry, but very badly mixed up in my reasoning because of the peculiar
views you entertain concerning God and man. What proof have you had that you are right?"

"Through these peculiar views as you call them, I am being restored to health; in fact, I believe
every symptom has gone forever, and that I am entirely well, besides I feel so happy, contented,
and free that I can hardly wait for the day when mother will understand, and be free from her
bondage."

"If understanding will make her free I pray God that He will give her such understanding, but
I cannot see what connection understanding can possibly have with sickness."

"You know, father, Jesus Christ said, 'Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you
free.' The question is, free from what? And if we take medicine, we are giving the medicine
power to heal, or making a God of it, and in doing so we break the same commandment. Now, father,
good-night, and I hope by a careful perusal of the Bible on this subject you will be able to
agree with me. Good-night, mother."

"Good-night, Walter," said both his father and mother, as he turned to leave the room.

As soon as he was gone Mrs. Williams turned to the pastor and said: "To-night you must surely
agree with me that the boy is inspired."

The pastor looked up at her and said, "That is the only way I can account for the wonderful
things he says. I must admit he has gone far beyond me, in his understanding of the Bible.
I intend to put in the next few days in verifying his explanations."

"James, do you think the boy can be right in regard to sickness and sin being the same?"

"There is hardly any other conclusion to arrive at, if we believe the words of Jesus Christ.
Now let us go to bed, as it is quite late."

CHAPTER IX

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE JOURNAL

Bright and early the next morning Walter was up and reading in "Science and Health." After
reading some little time, he heard his mother calling him to breakfast. He laid his book down
and said: "This is the most wonderful book I ever read; no matter how many times I read it
over, it seems like a new book, and sometimes I wonder if I had not skipped some of it when
I read it before, as there are many things I see in it now that I did not see before. I suppose
it is because I did not understand it all the first time."

Shortly after breakfast, his mother asked Walter to do an errand for her down town. On the
way he began to wonder if Christian Scientists had a church or meeting-place, he also wished
he knew of some one who was a Scientist, as he desired very much to ask some questions, particularly
in regard to his mother's illness.

On his return from town, he was compelled to wait several moments at a railroad crossing near
the depot, and as he stepped inside his eye caught sight of a little bracket nailed to the
wall. In the bracket was a book, and on the cover in large print were the words, "Christian
Science Journal." Walter hastily walked over to the wall, took the book, and began to examine
it. He saw it was published monthly in Boston. Opening the book, he saw the first part was
reading matter, and as he turned page after page, he came to where he saw, "List of organized
churches of Christ, Scientist." Immediately he began looking if there was a church in his town.
He noticed that the names of the towns and cities were arranged alphabetically. After searching
for a moment he said, "Yes, here it is, 'Mapelton, Vermont. First church of Christ, Scientist,
First Reader, John J. Sivad; Services 10:45 A. M., Sunday School 12 M., Wednesday 7:45 P. M.,
Number 52 Squirrel Ave., on Island. Reading-room same address, 2 to 4 P. M.' Why, that is only
five or six blocks from my home; I wish I could go to their service. I may some day. They seem
to have a great many churches; there are eight in Chicago alone; three in Cleveland, Ohio;
three in Kansas City; three in London, England; six in New York City; two in New Orleans, La.;
three in Portland; one in Paris, France; one in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. "Why, they
seem to be in every city in the world." He continued to read and turned the pages until he
came to a page where he saw printed, "Addresses of Christian Science Practitioners." "I wonder
what they mean by practitioner; it must mean those who practice Christian Science, but I should
think every Christian Scientist would practice what he knows. I wonder if there are any in
Mapelton; let me see, they are all classified in states and cities; yes, there is Mapelton.
There are three of them here.

"Mrs. F. S. White, C. S., 281 N. Grant St.

"Mrs. M. J. Sivad, C. S., 742 Upland Court.

"Mrs. L. S. Poor, C. S., 45 Napoleon Ave.

"I wonder if all practitioners are women; no, here is Mr. Sherman Bradford; here is another
man; Oh, yes, there are a good many men, but there are more women than men. I know Mrs. White;
her husband used to keep a shoe store, and Mrs. M. J. Sivad is that lovely lady who lives in
a beautiful large mansion in Upland Court, the finest street in town; her husband is a retired
merchant. And Mrs. L. S. Poor is that tall, stately looking lady that passes by our house so
often. I must have a talk with them some time. Now I must hurry home or mother will think something
has happened."

Arriving home, he told his mother he had stopped at the depot, and that this was the reason
of his delay.

Walter was now so well and strong that his parents did not worry much about him, but Walter
and his father were quite alarmed at Mrs. William's condition, for she had been failing rapidly
for the last month and was so weak that it was almost impossible for her to do her accustomed
work. Walter and his father did all they could to help her and made her work as light as possible.

It was several days later when his mother felt so ill that she could not get up at all, and
so Walter decided to go to one of the practitioners for advice, which he did that same afternoon.

He told the practitioner of his illness and of his finding "Science and Health" and that the
reading and study of the book had cured him; also that his mother was sick, that he was a minister's
son, and his father was very much opposed to Christian Science. He also told her of their Bible
lessons and of the confusion of his father.

The practitioner told him that the word practitioner was used instead of doctor or healer and
that this was her profession, healing the sick, and that she would be pleased to help him all
she could, but that she had no right to treat his mother without her consent.

Walter assured her that it would be impossible to get either his father or mother's consent,
for they refused to have him treated at one time when a friend had suggested it.

The practitioner then said, "Well, Mr. Williams, your work is before you. Truth has found you,
and Truth will show you a way out of your seeming trouble. Trust God and never doubt His wisdom,
for God, Good, works in a mysterious way His wonders to perform; you must hold in thought that
everything will come to pass as you wish it, and if you can persuade your father to have a
talk with me, let me know, and I will be pleased to come."

Thanking the practitioner for her advice, Walter left the house and started home. He was not
fully satisfied with his visit; many of the questions he had asked the practitioner remained
unanswered, as he supposed, for the practitioner always referred him to "Science and Health."
In answer to one of his most important questions, she said, "'Science and Health,' page so
and so, says thus--"and then she would quote something from the book, but he could see no connection
between his question and the quotation. When he arrived home he decided to tell his father
all and try to persuade him to have his mother treated by a Christian Science practitioner.

CHAPTER X

HUMANITY'S MISTAKE

The same evening Walter went into the library to see his father, and found him seated at his
desk with his Bible open before him. As Walter seated himself near the desk, his father looked
up and asked, "What is it, Walter?"

"I came to have a little talk with you, father."

"I am glad you did, as there are several questions I wanted to ask you, one of which is in
regard to that saying of Jesus Christ--'ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you
free'-you explained before but I did not catch your meaning."

