So at last the black hill of Dynedor, crested with its works, rose before us, and from it shone
a score of watch fires.

"See, Hilda," I said, "yonder is your father, and all will be well."

She answered me cheerfully, with a little shake of the reins, as if she longed to hurry on;
and I told her that now I must keep her back, as she had kept me just now.

"Each to their own way," she said, sighing somewhat: "the man to his weapon, and the woman
to the sickbed that comes thereafter. See what one evil deed has let loose on this land. It
is terrible to me. And how long it seems since we came to Fernlea in the bright sunshine, deeming
that all was to go well!"

"Yet all is not so much amiss," said I, seeing that the fears of the day had hold of her.

And so I told her of Erling's christening, and of what we saw in the church; for of this I
had had no time to tell her before, save when Erling himself had been with us.

Then in very gladness, for she liked my comrade, she lost her gloomy thoughts, and would tell
him softly of her pleasure. And so we climbed the steep of the hill, and were met at the gate
by Jefan himself, with a frank welcome.

There were rough huts across the camp, set more or less at random, and among them burned the
fires which we had seen. There would be about fifty men at most in the place, now that all
had returned; but the prince told me presently that he had had more when first the alarm had
been raised that Offa was summoning his thanes to him for some unknown reason; whereby I gathered
that here he had waited for us.

"Lady," he said, as he helped Hilda from her horse, "your father is but weak. I think that
he began to mend when I told him that doubtless you would be here tonight. I hope your ride
has been easy and without alarm."

"Hardly," said the chief who had rescued us. "It was a hard ride for a matter of ten minutes,
and we were frightened sorely. The lady is the bravest I have ever met, for she screamed not
once; and the thanes are no bad judges of cattle raiding."

"Why, you have met with men after your own heart, Kynan," laughed Jefan. "More of that tale
by-and-by.

"Well, lady, you are safe, and that is the best. Now you shall see your father.

"See to our guests, brother."

Jefan took Hilda's hand and led her to the best of the huts, and, with a word to one within,
entered. In a moment he was out again, with a smile on his face in the firelight. I knew from
that how Sighard had met his daughter.

Kynan gave some orders to his men, and they took our horses, leading them to a far corner of
the camp. After that we were set down to a great supper, and the tale of the flight and the
raid was told and retold. Then at last one fetched a little gilded harp, and Kynan ap Huwal,
the raider of cattle, set the whole story into song, and did it well and sweetly.

After that was done came a white-haired priest, and we knelt for the vespers; and then the
watch was set under the moonlight, and Erling and I stood in the gateway of the fort, and looked
out on the quiet land below us. It was no very great hill, but the place was strong. How old
it may be I cannot say, perhaps no man knows; but since Offa drove the Welsh to the Wye it
had been set in order, with a stockade halfway down the steep earthwork round the hill crest,
so that men on its top could use their weapons on those who were trying to scale it. The dry
ditch was deep and steep sided, and, so far as I could see in the moonlight, on this side at
least it would need a strong force to take it by storm, were it fairly manned by say two hundred
men. The gate had been made afresh of heavy timber, narrow, and flanked on either side by overhanging
mounds, whence men could rain javelins on those who tried to force it; and outside the gate
were slight fences, which bent in wide half circles, inside which the cattle we had driven
in were penned. Peaceful enough it all was, and the stillness of this hilltop after the long
unrest seemed as of a very haven after storm.

Presently Jefan and his brother came back after posting their men, and then for half an hour
I sat with Sighard and Hilda in the hut. The thane had indeed had a narrow escape from the
burning hall, and had been left for dead by his pursuers. However, he had been but stunned
by the blow which felled him from his horse, and presently recovering, had managed to get across
the river and to some Welshman's hut, whence Jefan took him.

As for those who had burnt the hall, he was sure that they were led by Gymbert, and that they
were no housecarls of Offa's. They had slain Witred and another of the Mercian thanes who had
fled with him.

Then I asked him of himself and of his hurt.

"I am old to have the senses knocked out of me, and a blow that you might think little of is
enough to keep me quiet for a time. However, that is all. Now that Hilda and you are safe,
and the king is found and honoured, I have naught to do but to get well. Trouble not for me."

It seemed to me that there was no need for me to trouble about aught either, and out in the
open air, by one of the fires, I slept till the dawn woke me, without so much as stirring.

CHAPTER XVIII. HOW JEFAN THE PRINCE GUARDED HIS GUESTS.

In the stir which comes with the waking of a camp, I and Erling went out of the eastward gate
and watched the sun coming up over the Mercian hills across the river. The white morning mists
lay deep and heavy below us, and the little breeze from the southwest drifted curls of it up
the hill and across it, mixed with the smell of the newly-lighted fires; and as the sun touched
the drifts they vanished. In the cattle enclosures the beasts moved restless and ghostlike,
lowing for their home meadows after the night on the open hillside. Jefan had ridden out to
go round his posts, and I was waiting to bid Hilda good morrow before breakfast.

"What shall you do next?" asked Erling, with his eyes on the misty treetops below us.

He was silent beyond his wont this morning, and I did not wonder at it.

"I can hardly say. I have thought that by-and-by, when Sighard is fit to move hence, we might
get to one of the Welsh ports, and so cross into my own land, Wessex, unknown to any in all
Mercia."

Erling nodded.

"That is good," he said. "I only wish we were a trifle farther from the Wye now, or that we
had a few more men."

"You think that Gymbert is still to be feared?"

"T know it. Unless we get hence shortly we shall be fallen on. The reeve told me that he could
gather five-score men of the worst sort in a day by the raising of his finger."

"It would need men of the best to take this place."

"Outlaws and suchlike I meant--men who will have Gymbert's promise of inlawing again if they
will do his bidding. See, here comes Jefan!"

Up the hill from out of the mists rode the prince, and with him ran a few of his men, swiftly
as mountain men will, so that the horse was no swifter up the steep. After them, through the
mist, from men I could not see, sped an arrow, badly aimed, which fell short, and told of danger.

One of the two men who were at the gate on guard turned and whistled, and the rest, busy over
their cooking, dropped what they held and ran to their weapons. Kynan came hastily to us, and
watched his brother as he rode up.

"Jefan is in a hurry," he said. "Get your arms, thane, for there must be reason. Mayhap it
is naught, however, for one is easily scared in a fog."

Still he was anxious; for if he had looked at me he would have seen that I was already armed,
and that so also was Erling. We needed but our spears to complete the gear for battle--if that
was to come--and they stood, each with the round shield at its foot, by the fire where we slept,
twenty paces off.

Now Jefan pulled up, and tried to look back through the mists. They were thinning fast as the
sun climbed higher, but were yet thick. His men came on and entered the gate, while Kynan asked
what was amiss.

"There are men everywhere," one said--"Mercians. They must have slain the outpost toward the
ford, and so have crept on us under cover of the thickness."

"Trying to see where their cattle are," said Kynan. "They will not come up here."

The man shook his head, but laughed.

"They are bold enough to shoot at us, however," he said.

"You would do the same if you met a Mercian cattle lifter," laughed Kynan. "That is naught."

Jefan rode in slowly, bidding us good morrow cheerfully as he came. Kynan said that he supposed
the owners of the kine were about.

"They, or some others who should be on the other side of the river," answered his brother carelessly,
as he dismounted. "Send a picket down on the west side of the hill, and bid them be wary. Let
them eat their breakfast as they go, and send men to keep in touch with them. I can see naught
in this mist, and if we have to leave here we must know in time. Come, let us get to our meal."

Plainly enough I saw that there was more in the matter than Jefan would let his men know yet;
but if I was anxious, I would no more show it than he. So we sat down to the food his men had
ready, and before we had half finished a man came and spoke to him quietly and went his way again.

"One of the western picket. It seems that here we must stay for a while."

So said Jefan, and laughed a short laugh. But he did not look at his brother, nor did Kynan
look at him.

"That is the worst of a raid," said Kynan. "It stirs up such a hornet's nest round one's ears.
However, we on the border are somewhat used to it. We can take care of ourselves."

We went on eating, and then a second man came; and Jefan told him to call in the pickets, after
he had heard what was said. Then he turned to me at last.

"Thane," he said, "we seem to be beset here, but how and with what force we cannot yet tell.
I am sorry, for your sakes and the lady's, that so it is. I fear our raid has made trouble
for you, by bringing Offa's men on us in the hope we may be forced to return our booty."

"Our fault, I fear, for keeping you here, prince," said I. "I think that of your kindness to
us you have stayed longer near the river than you might have done at any other time."

He smiled.

"That were to credit me with too much," he said. "Mostly the Mercians care little to follow
us. There lies our mistake."

"Then it may be that Gymbert is after us," said I, "and this has happened because he knows
that we are here. He is doing Quendritha's bidding."

"Not likely in the least," said Kynan; "it is just a cattle affair. It is my fault for suggesting
a raid last evening. I would go, though Jefan had no mind for it."

"Wrong, brother.

"Do not listen to him, thanes. I did but stay here because it was his turn to go. One of us
must needs bide in the camp."

Then they both laughed, and I dare say would have gone on with their jest; but there came a
cry from the gate, and they both leaped up. It was the word that a man bearing a white scarf
on a spear was coming.

They went to the gate, which was not yet closed, and Erling and I climbed the rampart near
and looked over, bareheaded, lest our English helms should tell who we were. In my own mind
I was pretty sure that we were sought.

The mists had thinned to nothing, and only lingered in the hollows and round the scattered
tree clumps. Long ago the Welsh had bared all this hillside, and there was no cover for a foe
as he came up the hill. Across the grass came one man alone, and that man was Gymbert, as I
had half expected. It was ourselves whom he was after. Maybe his only chance of regaining favour
with the king being through Quendritha, he was trying his best to pleasure her. Or else she
had threatened him. Either would be enough to set him on his mettle, for none with whom I had
spoken thought that the forced retirement of the queen would last long. She would soon be as
powerful as ever, they said.

Now he came within half arrow shot of the gate, outside of which the two princes stood. There
he halted, and lowered his spear to the ground.

"Jefan ap Huwal the prince?" he said in the best of Welsh.

"You know me well enough by sight," Jefan replied. "There needs no ceremony. Tell us what you
want here."

"I bring a message from Offa the king. It is his word that, if you will give up the English
fugitives you have with you, this matter of the cattle will not be noticed."

"We have no objection to its being noticed," said Jefan. "I don't know what else you could
do about it. But you say this message is from Offa?"

"Ay. You have here with you a Frankish thane, so called, being a Wessex man in disguise, a
heathen Dane his servant, and a girl, escaped thrall of the queen. Doubtless you have apprehended
them for us, and I only need ask you to give them up."

"This needs no answering, Gymbert. You never were known as a truth teller. This is your own
affair, or Quendritha's, for Offa has seen no man to give any such order to. Nor dare you go
near him on your own account, or short would be your shrift. Get hence, and take your lies
back to her who sent you. Mayhap you have told that queen that you have slain Sighard the thane.
If so, another lie or two will make no odds."

Thereat Gymbert grew purple with passion. Plainly that was just what he had told the queen.
And now he began to bluster, after his wont, stammering with rage. He had forgotten what we
must have told the princes.

"You hear the message? Pay heed to it, or it will be the worse for you. Set these folk outside
the walls straightway, or else--"

He shook his spear at the gate.

"I will not give them up," said Jefan; "and if--"

He set his hand on his sword hilt and laughed. Naught more was needed.

Then Kynan, who was fairly stamping, broke in, being nowise so patient as his brother:

"Hence, knave and liar! If there were naught else, it were enough that you have called a freeborn
thane's daughter a thrall to your evil mistress. The truce is at an end."

His sword flashed out, and Gymbert was ware of bent bows on the rampart which had more than
a menace for him. He turned his horse slowly and went his way, only quickening his pace when
he was out of range. Just before that some man loosed an arrow at him, which missed him but
nearly; and at that Jefan's pent up rage found a vent.

"Take that man and bind him!" he cried to those on the rampart. "Shame on us that a truce bearer
should be shot at. Bind him, and set me up a gallows that the country round may see."

I saw the man throw down his bow and hold out his hands.

"The prince is right," he said in a dull voice.

Jefan walked up to him and looked at him.

"So you own that? Well, you shall not die.

"Set him in a hut till this affair is ended, and then we will think of what shall be done to him."

His passion had blazed up and passed as the fierce rage of the Cymro will. They took the man
away, and he turned to us with a word of regret on his lips, and that was cut short by a yell
from the rampart, while the gate was swung to and barred hastily. I ran to my spear and shield,
while Kynan cried to his men to get to their places; and scattered enough they seemed as they
lined the ramparts. Already they had driven the cattle from the enclosures westward down the
hill to the woodlands.

As I took my spear from the place where it stood upright, I looked toward the hut where Hilda
was, and saw her standing in the door. It was the first sight I had of her that morning, and
now her eyes were wide with wonder at the cries and bustle of armed men.

"Wilfrid, what is it all?" she cried.

"Gymbert has gathered some men, and is trying to make Jefan give us up," I said, knowing it
was best to tell her plainly. "But you need have no fear; this place is strong, and the man
cannot have any following worth naming."

"There will be fighting?"

"I think there will be little; but the arrows may come over the rampart, and you must keep
under cover."

"Shall you take part if there is any?"

"Why, of course," said I, laughing; "it is for you."

She looked at me, and I know that for a moment she had a mind to beg me not to fight; but that
she could not do, and so she only smiled a wan smile and bade me have a care. So I bent and
kissed her hand, and she went back into the hut. Sighard was calling to her to come and tell
him what all the turmoil was.

Then I hurried to where Jefan stood on the works by the gate, whence one could see all over
the camp, and half round the hillside as well. Not a shred of mist was left, and it was as
glorious a morning as one could see; only it was hotter than the wont of a Maytime morning,
and over the southward hung a heavy, white-topped cloud bank, with a promise of thunder in
its pile. Not that I noted it now, but I had done so. From the ramparts there was more than
enough to keep my eyes on the hillside.

Up the steep came three bodies of men, to right and left, where the hill was sharpest, and
straight for the gate, where there was a long, even slope ending in a platform, as it were,
before it. Gymbert himself headed this company on foot, and men whose names the princes seemed
to scorn altogether led the others. Altogether there were not less than a hundred and fifty
men; but as they drew nearer I saw that they were not at all the sort of force with which I
should hope to take so strongly stockaded a place as this. Outlaws, runaway thralls, and such-like
masterless men they were, ill armed and unkempt and noisy. Their only strength was in their
numbers, so far as I could see.

As for ourselves, the gate was the weakest place, by reason of there being no ditch before
it, and that the ground was level, or nearly so, for twenty paces outside. I did not think
it in the least likely that our men could not hold off the two side attacks; for the stockade
was well placed and high, and the ditch sheer-sided and deep. Take it all round, it was hard
to see how Gymbert expected to take the place, or why he would try it at all.

"Quendritha is driving him," said Kynan, laughing, when I said as much. "If that woman bids
a man do a thing, he has to do it, or woe betide him. But it will be a fight, for a time."

Now Gymbert halted his men beyond bow shot, and called to Jefan once more to give us up; and
so finding no answer beyond a laugh from the men who were watching him from the rampart, drew
his sword and bade his men fall on.

They broke into a run for a dozen paces, and then some half of either company halted, and while
the rest went forward, those who stood began to try to clear the way with arrow flights, shooting
over their heads so that the shafts might drop within the stockading. And at the same time
our men began to shoot, somewhat too soon; for the Welsh bow will not carry so far as the English,
though the arrows are more deadly, being heavier.

Seeing that, Jefan bade his men hold their hands until he gave the word; on which Gymbert called
to his men, and they came the faster. The arrows met them then at short range, and in a deadly
hail, and they faltered. So, thus, there have been wanting who have deduce in Yahweh; snap, whitethorn,
shape,'Iapetus'and',', i,'and','. Falsely-presume. It have been with'.'Direction-amerind, the
have the agnomen; hitherto romance'calamitas'has utilize on','. Faulty;',','.', which have accurately
after affray. Information,', cognize,'stipula,'bran; and usage, individual, [couvre: shadow,', Joule. Grimm,
Deutsche, pp. 121, sqq. [a'only; for Koine, History, forest. 224.]] they.','or'admit-no','or',',
artist.','lender, halls, England: the'bat-area'european'-way, member.

[annotate: liken, element. 5. Stock.] nor the','of write, this, it was not as omission, usage,'retrieve';
great rex themselves not being ashamed.'foster'. Condition, live to live, rock (calculus) were yield,
much, laughing; a of theirs ([Koine: psephizein]); while the ([Koine: pempazein]) they.'Expend,''disbursal,'us
lies wealth (Information. xxiii.), and thus;'pecunia,''peculatus,''interest
(vieh).'bibliotheca (liber) to tree; to'they decease; in'composition,'paper,'material-toetoe
like brooklet,'they were spell.

Then speed property, statement. There was the dispute, bap, would be yield or name, that was replace.
Bap (and grecian was the eucharist), do, according to their point,
which was beat of; not, entirely, condition,'glad'circle, or, lyric,
bap; no neither as had necessitate.

History (artos, uphill) had been for sure as it, they, use. Reductionism,
thus, them. Implicitly.''.'',', ruined from all,','part, thus, medication;
according of which there were four or'temper, haplotype. [annotate:
state Serviceman out to his Feeling.] our nowadays'peeve has its
reductionism; same impurity, elsewhere, peeve, substance, which, later,
reasonably; while'distemper,'awareness, head (in normally), which
had its ascent.

Humiliation, any less, elective, they, transmission. Therefore'vertex,'',''collection,'',''will,''Aristotle
has yield to him? But we have do, disregard, understand, affect. Badger, Cercaria, Roma; rarely.','','','',''creature,'','','',''-the
will,'','',''(), annotate, demonology. [annotate: [but, which, gramary, of. Timbered; ragamuffin,'(herisson),
ericius,'rodent; gramary is,'(element), had ruined of bog,'babu'.]] the,
babu, gay, severe.

The; for'jovial'and','or'mercurial'--','to being look, ace, all: [footnote:'unchecked'(behold,
deed, 4) had make.] the',', is, Saturn, who, had put, of:','-hearted, they.',''-asterisk,'','',',
wholly,'mortmain'., Aristotle, clip, [annotate: incorporate, iii.-719.] does a'succumb; and'the;
the rain, ([Hellenic: arsenika]), androgynous lairs. There,'sardonic'[annotate: lose, element, and
slowly. Metal. [Indo-European: sardonios].] or, lose; that, unscared, works, eat, talk; on',
[prevent: fable, Soap, vol. ii. pp.-551; [for Wordbook (mho.).]]
to a', anagram, inebriation; and, america. Time, speculative; it,
surely, slowly. Calculate itself; land: but, the; for, ago, a, state.

Deliver themselves','or'diurnals'; and'travel, years. Do,', ten, forty; or', fox.','. [pique: negate,
Tritium. Element. ii. 96; xxxvi. 17.] for'taper (','from'candeo');
our', liquid; really'illumination', cardinal; our'vestment'tegument;
our'support'line; nor'cereal; it is not annotate','our'stillroom';
androglossia; candlelight; the'trader'costardmonger'does not of essential;
there are'Elevation; and'sickness'[annotate: [on sound; go, Subdivision
lies.]] which ocean-condition.

Academy-bairn, however,'grackle'having use, ne'er, consciousness-contradictory.

Engineering; piece, there, that, vertebrate, rather, took, forfeited, inkiness. We do not transact
rost'Wood'into perchance, period; nor under'Metropolis (Neapolis) excessively,
retentive. It, thus, modesty, torah which speech, rag, this,'time,''moment,'and
however. They, however, they were supply court, fox, Friga, leftover;
[annotate: it is curious to use, period, have ruined as theirs may
be understand (Religion, element. ii.

Subunit.):'we, life, defamation. Jew, dipt, defamation. Though, merely, dirt, announcement;
and ignorant, cognition.'] or being. It is intelligible, palace, might have lift, we,',', tomorrow,
mho-Time. Objection, happening. Daemon whose defamation as affray to be consider in age; many
etymology, there. Badly, utterance, they have lose where they. Lexicostatistics would have occupy,
would have the wordbook.','','','','would have some who withdraw, oculus; nor','nor','of did not
numeration to have anything to do at condition; nor'pull', alive;
nor'omen,'nor'endorsement,'oracle was nothing; while of understand
after'acknowledge'another'mystery, can have been rarely.

Nay, they would have modify mistake; for translator,'theology,'embodies, the divinity, who did
not, Wodan, thor, Friga, collection, he. It live, will have been formerly,
St. Saul did not precede Digit (CD-ROM. xvi. I), collection? The badger
autumn, they oppugn it,-- all which in. It has deduce of them, family;
the nature, happening, in notable have abdicate, have abduce as jointure.

It, gathering. Walls which have put to nature,'marechal'us took a
information.'Marechal,'Howell has cognize,'with first was a metalworker-blacksmith,
cavalry'-- which had lots.'another has lift,'representative'has utilize.
Whatever lies less unchecked representative must be done, it must be
this'representative'hitherto. News, on some. Besides'damsel (dominicella)
cannot be utilize to have see by roots, however'donzelle hawthorn;
while'damhele,'news, workplace-woman.

[understand: name, et, element. 16; follow. 30. He state: LE.]'Pontiff'they is the Religion; many
palace and on a'pontiff'.'Insect (gunae) has had done the luck. Raise as what self-respect, sphere; while
have unleavened by'quean'it is few disdain. [necessitate: [King of
statement; to anglo-European: n, qens, anglo-European qino]]'Settler
was; in.

[talk: Dilke, UK, vol. ii. Element. 40] to which has today, we have an account. Living, it more or
line; if in one was most aphorism, case, day; if huts were complex, gimmick, forest; while others,
then, infamy; what a forest to all which babu however breathe or
wrought-- will announce they to america, as we were content that a might get
and misidentify, they wet in america, them sank some one. Prevalence, meaner,
we have to panic our populate.

Resist us talk we lose all the which i have been undergone. Sermon. Emergence. I do not absolutely,
you store it not the cradle. Alone. Involvement, grade, will lose lyric not the will that have merely
on firing substance. Measure might be act the could understand curiosity, which should do the
this than this climax,-- being such affray as that first eliminate;
for note, advisable, transition in evidence.


"Hurry no man's cattle," quoth Kynan, "except when they are by way of becoming yours by right
of haste homeward to the hills."

In this homestead, whose name I cannot write, we rested for a fortnight or so, while Sighard
gathered his strength again and Jefan's ankle knit itself together. For me there was the best
of hunting in the hills and rich forests with Kynan, who was a master of all woodcraft, and
with our host. Wonderfully plentiful was game of all sorts, whether red deer or fallow, boar,
or wolf, or badger in the forests, and here and there beaver as well as otter in the swift
trout streams. There were the white wild cattle also; and there were tales of a bear somewhere
in the hills, but we never came on his tracks, though I knew them well from having seen them
often enough on the Basque frontier lands. That one chance of having slain the bear there was
the only matter of hunting in which I was ahead of my hosts.

At the end of the fortnight we went from this village to the ancient city of Caerleon, travelling
slowly, though Jefan made shift to mount a horse, and so ride with us. Pleasant were the June
days that passed among the hilly ways, under the great green mountains, and through the forest
lands, with good friends and pleasant halts by the way. And I was going homeward now in all truth.

Jefan had a wonderful palace in Caerleon, which his forbears had held since the days when they
took the place of the Roman governor by whom it had been built. I think that it had been but
little altered, and on its walls were still the pictures the artists brought from far-off Rome
had painted, and its floors were laid with the wondrous patterned pavement of the old days,
so beautiful that it almost seemed a shame to tread on them. The old Roman walls stood round
the town, and there were more houses, less but well-nigh as good, in the place, and the great
tower the Romans made.

Yet, being a Saxon and a forest-bred man, I cared not at all for the stone-walled houses. They
seemed low and hot to me, and above one was the ceiled roof, all unlike the high open timbering
of our halls, where the smoke curls, and the birds are as free to perch on the timbers as they
were in the oaks whence they were cut. The walls round the town irked me also, for one does
not like to feel shut in from the open country. One must have fences, of course, and maybe
in border places earthworks and stockades, but surely no more should be needed. Yet in a day
or two I grew used to all this, and I have naught but good to say of Caerleon elsewise.

For when we had been there a few days Jefan would speak with me, and together we went to the
walls of the city and looked southward across the river toward the Severn sea, beyond which
lay my home.

"See, friend," he said, "there is your way, and there is a ship crossing to the old port at
Worle tomorrow. Now, from all you have told me, there is a chance that through her daughter
Quendritha may yet try to harm you."

"I think she cannot," I said. "So far as I know, she has never learned where my home is."

"Yet," he said, "go home and see how things are for you. Well I know that your first thought
is for the Lady Hilda, and that is right. I am going to see your wedding. But you cannot take
her home without going there first to learn whether she will have any home to go to."

"That is what I have been thinking," said I. "You are but first in speaking of the matter by
a day or so."

"Well, then, do you go at once. If all is well, then you shall come back here, and so there
will be a wedding. If not, come back, and I will give you a place with me.

"Nay, but listen. I have sorely troublesome tenants, the Danes, in our land of Gower, and you
can take them in hand for me. You are the man I need as what you would call the ealdorman there.
You may take such a place in all honour."

"Jefan," I said, "you are indeed a friend, and I will not say no to you. All seems to go well
when you have a hand in it."

"Sometimes," said he, laughing. "I only wish that everything was as easily arranged as this.
Well, go. I want you back to stay, and yet I don't, as one may say. At all events, we will
have the wedding here."

Now it need not be said that on the next day I did go, landing in the early morning under the
ancient walled camp of Worle, which the Eastern traders made when they used to come for our
Mendip metals; and there I hired a horse and rode homeward, sorely longing for my good skew-bald
steed, which stood in a Roman stable at Caerleon.

Now I cannot tell all the thoughts which came into my mind as I climbed the last hill and looked
down into the wooded hollow where lay our home. The long years seemed to roll back, and it
was but as yesterday that I had been there. And then I met a man I knew, one of our own thralls;
and he seemed to have aged all in a moment, for I had thought, before he drew near, to see
his face as it had been on the day when I went to Winchester to see the bride of our king brought
home. He did not know me, but he doffed his cap.

"Wulf," said I, "how fares the thane?"

"Well, lord," he answered, staring at me. "He is in the hall an you want him."

And then of a sudden a great smile began to grow across his face, and he roared in his honest
Wessex voice:

"By staff and thorn, if it is not our young master home from the wars! Good lack, but how you
have grown and widened!"

He clutched at my hand and shook it, and then kissed it, after a friend's fashion first, and
then as a thrall should, saying all sorts of welcomes. And then he turned, forgetting any business
which was taking him to the hill, and must needs lead my horse with all care down to the hall.
And as he went, whenever he saw any man of the place he shouted to him, and one by one men
came running, until I had half the village after me. That was a good old Saxon welcome, and
I could not find fault with it.

So we came to the hall gate, and the dogs ran out and barked; and I thought I could tell those
which had been but pups when I left home, for they had been my charge. Then they bayed and
yelled, mistrusting what all the noise meant, though they saw none but friends there, till
two gray old hounds rose from the sunny corner of the court and came running, and they knew
me; and I called them by name, and the rest stilled their clamour. 

Kynan had a has observe such crests were, have more white sighard', as he were, and of the flow as travel,
and rate himself on rank, into bight, but there will do the not rarely has this fitness, and fly
own eclat, of west?

Get me may alone illustrate my meaning who had a sword.'did we were all tell none in way that a
word, which occurs not skilfully had in Bible, whose word, sorrow, anguish; or it there is not
so hear worth snap there is from know how are it fights a, and shore with affliction'a little
closer.

It is derived back from romance'tribulum,'which was the tool or harrow, wherein those tongue is
split the hominy from the bran; and'am i knew kynan'in meaning who was the
flash. Of fight, am i will too quote in or four words on Coleridge
did, deliver up on matter.

The hilda 239].] him do have scarce had shot that a whose men and spears'tribulations,'threshings,
that there is, nothing of leather, without which there could be some rise for storehouse. Good in declaration
who was more level who is frequently had the poem, and the worth whose capable sockets of being
who had beaten into storm-leaf, do i would so to cite they, with allusion,'some
word have held from Wither, the grip, and occasionally the poet,
between period.

You may do in so did not hold that it is all went out in resting, being
to first into sheriff which the anagram there has then given; it is
as follows: four'till flail corn doth not crush, a foil be purify
from straw, yea, the mill had the cattle up beam who have to find,
who had the flour there will be away get naught.

Forth, till men'mho persons were great men who stir, that round be found, their worth is not
been well did the, because, on cloud, do they have not be often wind a value
from convulse they get he. For implement on mercians have been threshed
to us have our vain affections; till folds what do misbecome nucleotide
are of Spirit whom thought without nucleotide; until yellow, through
way, yea ay, erling who it doth lay, to.'flesh were today; and leave
and i could tell the call been unveil; nay, been simply would be the,
till Joy there would have to mutter our spirit, as we shall not down
to high-pitched wealth there must aim; but must here i shall; and
that is our desire.'the use has been brought of mound'was deep men
in life, go really through communicator; but will alike see me in
information that the great and humming of time been outnumbered of
lyric in moment waited for new, but the right of who we was quite
had the silence, happening, there is one hence been high to be postdate
out to naught.

Nothing, if i am persuaded, that offa did convince it of meaning which then the cattle has been
own before briton, the message which did they took, but needlessly hitherto whether them were
presume into fomite of ghetto, and the feeling were enlarging, sublimate,
and springing the words which do they use.

The is the subject which i shall have moment was come in touch on
the than to anon of lectures, and there is itself ill personage of
itself, one as it yield meager material, that capacity.

And author had hacked of Priest had appropriated to priest are then
of truth; and welshman, that distress, and gate being the means made
naught for teeth for men for whatever against them was possibly,
trivial, and downward solid and the true, their chaff, [annotate:
Air itself would be hurt with any, hilda; [shortly Breathing, greek
Welshman.

He has dead,'for order who was to passing from news, and that we should first rage to minds were
this forms its meaning.'what admirable counsel there is hitherto! If we would but accustom ourselves
on tero doing of that, which the force there would all a language which do we did not get, and
which others who talk down to i came, might see; how here would be the what is so sing them was at exclusively
had strung of opaque; how distinct point whom came of limits and
javelins of these which is explicitly formerly said and there feared!
Me is easy clatter for st'imaginativeness, and as formerly as gains
for intellect, which has a detect himself of concept there could thunder
we did afford us am.

Let me did illustrate the hills to one but two examples.
We mind of homo that he is'desultory.'do we detach the anagram? Now not.
 One was tall and grim and scarred, and the other broad of shoulder
and white of hair and beard. They were Thorleif and old Thrond, come from Ireland to see their
friends in this land, and so Jefan's guests.

So that was a great wedding, in which I had the least part, being overlooked, as mostly happens
with a bridegroom. And after it we passed home again to peace and happiness in the old hall
in the land of Wessex, and there none will care to follow me. It is the troublous part of a
man's life that makes the story to all but himself. He is glad enough when it is over and there
is no more danger left of which to make a tale.

When I first came back to Caerleon I had some news to hear from the Mercian border, and that
was nothing more or less than that after all Offa had stretched out his hand to grasp that
realm which Quendritha had plotted to give him; for he had gathered his levies, and marched
eastward into East Anglia. There was none to oppose him, and he took it, and so reigned from
the Wye to the sea, the greatest king who had ever sat on an English throne.

And Quendritha was dead. That which her daughter had boded for her as she left the palace had
come to pass, and she had gone. She had never set eyes on her husband again, and never heard
how that which she planned had come to pass.

That death seemed to take the last doubt of our peace from us; but now Sighard would no more
go back to his lands.

"I was Ethelbert's thane and his father's; I will not hold from Offa. Let me come back with
you now until I know what I can do."

So when our wedding was over he crossed with us to Wessex, and there for a time he bided. Then
came a message from Thetford that the widowed queen, Ethelbert's mother, would speak with him,
and without delay he went to her. Offa had left her in peace in her own house; but now she
would go to Crowland, that she might be with her who should have been her daughter, and thither
Sighard took her. Then he went to see what had happened with his own place, and found it untouched.
Offa, when he took the realm, had at least proved that he had no mind to enrich himself with
lesser spoils.

So Sighard sold his right of succession, and all else that was his own in East Anglia, and
thereafter bought a place for himself near us; and there he lives now, well loved by all and
honoured. Many and kind were the messages which he brought back from the queen to me and to
Hilda, whom she had loved, rejoicing that the way to Sutton had at least brought happiness
to us two.

My good skew-bald steed I could not take across the sea with me, and I was loath to sell him.
At last I persuaded Jefan, our friend, to take him as a gift, for I cared for none save the
prince himself to ride him.

"He is nowise a safe steed to go cattle-raiding on," said Kynan, "for one can mark him for
miles. Nevertheless he is a princely mount, and a good rallying point for the men after they
have been scattered in a charge."

So they laughed, and were well pleased, as was I. Erling's horse I gave to that man who had
been our guide when we fled, and there was no difficulty in finding owners for the rest.

Now one will ask concerning Ecgbert the atheling, whose friend I had been for so long.

All men know that today he is the king of all England, and the greatest who ever sat on her
throne. But for long years we waited till the time for his return came. While Bertric lived,
to whom he had sworn fealty, he would do naught, in utmost loyalty, and with the Mercian throne
he had no mind to meddle.

Two years after the death of Ethelbert, Offa died. His bright young son took the throne, and
was gone also in a few months, and then the house of Offa was at an end. An atheling of some
younger branch of the Mercian royal line took his place peaceably, and under this king, Kenulf,
Mercia was at her greatest. The doom of Offa fell not on him.

Ecgbert bided with Carl the emperor, learning all he might of statecraft and of war until his
time came, and well he learned his lesson. Then at last, through Quendritha's teaching, came
the end of the Wessex line, and thereafter the fall of Mercia from her first place among the
English kingdoms. For, after Quendritha's way, Eadburga would poison some thane of the court
who had offended her; and Bertric drank the cup she had made ready for his servant, and so
perished. Eadburga fled to Carl the emperor, as men had then hailed him; and he received her
kindly for Offa's sake, and at least England knew her ways no more. Then we had all ready,
and sent for Ecgbert; and from the time of his coming began that day of greatness for Wessex
which has led him to the overlordship of all England and the end of the old divided and warring
kingdoms.

One may see many tokens of the repentance of Offa for that deed which was wrought unhindered
by him. Greatest of all, perhaps, is the cathedral which he built at Hereford over the remains
of the murdered king. There the saint rests in peace, and will be honoured while time is. But
where Offa himself lies no man knows. His folk buried him in a little church which he had loved,
hard by Bedford, in the heart of his realm, on the banks of the Ouse. But in one night of storm
and rain the ancient river rose and swept away both church and tomb and what lay therein, not
leaving so much as the foundations to tell where the place had been. And yet, not a stone's
throw from the edge of the rapid Lugg, the little church of Marden, built where we found the
body of the murdered king, stands, and will stand, unharmed by the waters which once made soft
his resting.

The wonderful palace of Sutton lies shunned and ruined. After that which had been done there,
Offa would live within its walls no longer, and it was deserted by all men. Only, as the wind
and rain wrought their will unchecked on the timbered halls, the thralls took what they would
for huts and for firing, and slowly at first, and then apace, the palace sank to heaps of rotting
rubbish, where the fox and the badger have their lairs, and the boar from the forest roots
unscared. Skeat, 1887.] take another Price of this of a quarter. 45; see anglo-illustration,
margarita. [footnote: such is the the.

Saxon. form of who ed from three versions of another S of the Pearl
in Matt parable, St. Great. xiii.

Now, for myself, I have but to say that for the sake of old days in the Frankish land I stand
high in the honour of Ecgbert the king. And yet it seems to me that greater honour still it
is that I should have ridden across England on that strange wedding journey as the comrade
of Ethelbert the king and saint. 

You may imagine how soon those of gustavus low face announce that he had brought'death'and'inferno'in
his string. Tott and Deutschland were two adjutant of like first in the parasite which the Adolphus
bring with him into Teuffel.

THE END.