But of course we could not remain in the hall until the blizzard had ceased, so after rehearsing
a little more, we wrapped ourselves up as well as we could and started for our homes. The wind
was blowing at hurricane speed, I am sure, and the heavy fall of snow was being carried almost
horizontally, and how each frozen flake did sting! Those of us who lived in the garrison could
not go very far astray, as the fences were on one side and banks of snow on the other, but
the light snow had already drifted in between and made walking very slow and difficult. We
all got to our different homes finally, with no greater mishap than a few slightly frozen ears
and noses. Snow had banked up on the floor inside of our front door so high that for a few
minutes Faye and I thought that we could not get in the house.

Major Pierce undertook to see Mrs. Elmer safely to her home at the sutler's store, and in order
to get there they were obliged to cross a wide space in between the officers' line and the
store. Nothing could be seen ten feet from them when they left the last fence, but they tried
to get their bearings by the line of the fence, and closing their eyes, dashed ahead into the
cloud of blinding, stinging snow. Major Pierce had expected to go straight to a side door of
the store, but the awful strength of the wind and snow pushed them over, and they struck a
corner of the fence farthest away--in fact, they would have missed the fence also if Mrs. Elmer's
fur cape had not caught on one of the pickets, and gone out on the plains to certain death.
Bright lights had been placed in the store windows, but not one had they seen. These storms
kill so many range cattle, but the most destructive of all is a freeze after a chinook, that
covers the ground with ice so it is impossible for them to get to the grass. At such times
the poor animals suffer cruelly. We often hear them lowing, sometimes for days, and can easily
imagine that we see the starving beasts wandering on and on, ever in search of an uncovered
bit of grass. The lowing of hundreds of cattle on a cold winter night is the most horrible
sound one can imagine.

Cold as it is, I ride Bettie almost every day, but only on the high ground where the snow has
been blown off. We are a funny sight sometimes when we come in--Bettie's head, neck, and chest
white with her frozen breath, icicles two or three inches long hanging from each side of her
chin, and my fur collar and cap white also. I wear a sealskin cap with broad ear tabs, long
sealskin gauntlets that keep my hands and arms warm, and high leggings and moccasins of beaver,
but with the fur inside, which makes them much warmer. A tight chamois skin waist underneath
my cadet-cloth habit and a broad fur collar completes a riding costume that keeps me warm without
being bungling. I found a sealskin coat too warm and heavy.

No one will ride now and they do not know what fine exercise they are missing. And I am sure
that Bettie is glad to get her blood warm once during the twenty-four hours. Friends kindly
tell me that some day I will be found frozen out on the plains, and that the frisky Bettie
will kill me, and so on. I ride too fast to feel the cold, and Bettie I enjoy--all but the
airs she assumes inside the post. Our house is near the center of the officers' line, and no
matter which way I go or what I do, that little beast can never be made to walk one step until
we get out on the road, but insists upon going sideways, tossing her head, and giving little
rears. It looks so affected and makes me feel very foolish, particularly since Mrs. Conger
said to me the other day: "Why do you make your horse dance that way--he might throw you."
I then asked her if she would not kindly ride Bettie a few times and teach her to keep her
feet down. But she said it was too cold to go out!

We have much more room in this house than we had in the hospital, and are more comfortable
every way. Almost every day or evening there is some sort of an entertainment--german, dinner,
luncheon, or card party. I am so glad that we gave the first cotillon that had ever been given
in the regiment, for it was something new on the frontier; therefore everyone enjoyed it. Just
now the garrison seems to have gone cotillon crazy, and not being satisfied with a number of
private ones, a german club has been organized that gives dances in the hall every two weeks.
So far Faye has been the leader of each one. With all this pleasure, the soldiers are not being
neglected. Every morning there are drills and a funny kind of target practice inside the quarters,
and of course there are inspections and other things.

FORT ELLIS, MONTANA TERRITORY, January, 1879.

IT is still cold, stinging cold, and we are beginning to think that there was much truth in
what we were told on our way over last fall--that Fort Ellis is the very coldest place in the
whole territory. For two days the temperature was fifty below, and I can assure you that things
hummed! The logs of our house made loud reports like pistol shots, and there was frost on the
walls of every room that were not near roaring fires. No one ventures forth such weather unless
compelled to do so, and then, of course, every precaution is taken to guard against freezing.
In this altitude one will freeze before feeling the cold, as I know from experience, having
at the present time two fiery red ears of enormous size. They are fiery in feeling, too, as
well as in color.

The atmosphere looks like frozen mist, and is wonderful, and almost at any time between sunrise
and sunset a "sun dog" can be seen with its scintillating rainbow tints, that are brilliant
yet exquisitely delicate in coloring. Our houses are really very warm--the thick logs are plastered
inside and papered, every window has a storm sash and every room a double floor, and our big
stoves can burn immense logs. But notwithstanding all this, our greatest trial is to keep things
to eat. Everything freezes solid, and so far we have not found one edible that is improved
by freezing. It must be awfully discouraging to a cook to find on a biting cold morning, that
there is not one thing in the house that can be prepared for breakfast until it has passed
through the thawing process; that even the water in the barrels has become solid, round pieces
of ice! All along the roof of one side of our house are immense icicles that almost touch the
snow on the ground. These are a reminder of the last chinook!

But only last week it was quite pleasant--not real summery, but warm enough for one to go about
in safety. Faye came down from the saw-mill one of those days to see the commanding officer
about something and to get the mail. When he was about to start back, in fact, was telling
me good-by, I happened to say that I wished I could go, too. Faye said: "You could not stand
the exposure, but you might wear my little fur coat" Suggesting the coat was a give-in that
I at once took advantage of, and in precisely twenty minutes Charlie, our Chinese cook, had
been told what to do, a few articles of clothing wrapped and strapped, and I on Bettie's back
ready for the wilds. An old soldier on a big corral horse was our only escort, and to his saddle
were fastened our various bags and bundles.

Far up a narrow valley that lies in between two mountain ranges, the government has a saw-mill
that is worked by twenty or more soldiers under the supervision of an officer, where lumber
can be cut when needed for the post. One of these ranges is very high, and Mount Bridger, first
of the range and nearest Fort Ellis, along whose base we had to go, has snow on its top most
of the year. Often when wind is not noticeable at the post, we can see the light snow being
blown with terrific force from the peak of this mountain for hundreds of yards in a perfectly
horizontal line, when it will spread out and fall in a magnificent spray another two or three
hundred feet.

The mill is sixteen miles from Fort Ellis, and the snow was very deep--so deep in places that
the horses had difficulty in getting their feet forward, and as we got farther up, the valley
narrowed into a ravine where the snow was even deeper. There was no road or even trail to be
seen; the bark on trees had been cut to mark the way, but far astray we could not have gone
unless we had deliberately ridden up the side of a mountain. The only thing that resembled
a house along the sixteen miles was a deserted cabin about half way up, and which only accentuated
the awful loneliness.

Bettie had been standing in the stable for several days, and that, with the biting cold air
in the valley, made her entirely too frisky, and she was very nervous, too, over the deep snow
that held her feet down. We went Indian file--I always in the middle--as there were little
grades and falling-off places all along that were hidden by the snow, and I was cautioned constantly
by Faye and Bryant to keep my horse in line. The snow is very fine and dry in this altitude,
and never packs as it does in a more moist atmosphere.

When we had ridden about one half the distance up we came to a little hill, at the bottom of
which was known to be a bridge that crossed the deep-cut banks of one of those mountain streams
that are dry eleven months of the year and raging torrents the twelfth, when the snow melts.
It so happened that Faye did not get on this bridge just right, so down in the light snow he
and Pete went, and all that we could see of them were Faye's head and shoulders and the head
of the horse with the awful bulging eyes! Poor Pete was terribly frightened, and floundered
about until he nearly buried himself in snow as he tried to find something solid upon which
to put his feet.

I was just back of Faye when he went down, but the next instant I had retreated to the top
of the hill, and had to use all the strength in my arms to avoid being brought back to the
post. When Bettie saw Pete go down, she whirled like a flash and with two or three bounds was
on top of the hill again. She was awfully frightened and stood close to Bryant's horse, trembling
all over. Poor Bryant did not know what to do or which one to assist, so I told him to go down
and get the lieutenant up on the bank and I would follow. Just how Faye got out of his difficulty
I did not see, for I was too busy attending to my own affairs. Bettie acted as though she was
bewitched, and go down to the bridge she would not. Finally, when I was about tired out, Faye
said we must not waste more time there and that I had better ride Pete.

So I dismounted and the saddles were changed, and then there was more trouble. Pete had never
been ridden by a woman before, and thinking, perhaps, that his sudden one-sidedness was a part
of the bridge performance, at once protested by jumps and lunges, but he soon quieted down
and we started on again. Bettie danced a little with Faye, but that was all. She evidently
remembered her lost battle with him at Camp Baker.

It was almost dark when we reached the saw-mill, and as soon as it became known that I was
with the "lieutenant" every man sprang up from some place underneath the snow to look at me,
and two or three ran over to assist Bryant with our things. It was awfully nice to know that
I was a person of importance, even if it was out in a camp in the mountains where probably
a woman had never been before. The little log cabin built for officers had only the one long
room, with large, comfortable bunk, two tables, chairs, a "settle" of pine boards, and near
one end of the room was a box stove large enough to heat two rooms of that size. By the time
my stiffened body could get inside, the stove had been filled to the top with pine wood that
roared and crackled in a most cheerful and inviting manner.

But the snow out there! I do not consider it advisable to tell the exact truth, so I will simply
say that it was higher than the cabin, but that for some reason it had left an open space of
about three feet all around the logs, and that gave us air and light through windows which
had been thoughtfully placed unusually high. The long stable, built against a bank, where the
horses and mules were kept, was entirely buried underneath the snow, and you would never have
dreamed that there was anything whatever there unless you had seen the path that had been shoveled
down to the door. The cabin the men lived in, I did not see at all. We were in a ravine where
the pine forest was magnificent, but one could see that the trees were shortened many feet
by the great depth of snow.

Our meals were brought to us by Bryant from the soldiers' mess, and as the cook was only a
pick-up, they were often a mess indeed, but every effort was made to have them nice. The day
after we got there the cook evidently made up his mind that some recognition should be shown
of the honor of my presence in the woods, so he made a big fat pie for my dinner. It was really
fat, for the crust must have been mostly of lard, and the poor man had taken much pains with
the decorations of twisted rings and little balls that were on the top. It really looked very
nice as Bryant set it down on the table in front of me, with an air that the most dignified
of butlers might have envied, and said, "Compliments of the cook, ma'am!" Of course I was,
and am still, delighted with the attention from the cook, but for some reason I was suspicious
of that pie, it was so very high up, so I continued to talk about it admiringly until after
Bryant had gone from the cabin, and then I tried to cut it! The filling--and there was an abundance--was
composed entirely of big, hard raisins that still had their seeds in. The knife could not cut
them, so they rolled over on the table and on the floor, much like marbles. I scooped out a
good-sized piece as well as I could, gathered up the runaway raisins, and then--put it in the
stove.

And this I did at every dinner while I was there, almost trembling each time for fear Bryant
would come in and discover how the pie was being disposed of. It lasted long, for I could not
cut off a piece for Faye, as Bryant had given us to understand in the beginning that the chef
d'oeuvre was for me only.

Nothing pleases me more than to have the enlisted men pay me some little attention, and when
the day after the pie a beautiful little gray squirrel was brought to me in a nice airy box,
I was quite overcome. He is very much like Billie in size and color, which seems remarkable,
since Billie was from the far South and this little fellow from the far North. I wanted to
take him out of the box at once, but the soldier said he would bite, and having great respect
for the teeth of a squirrel, I let him stay in his prison while we were out there.

The first time I let him out after we got home he was frantic, and jumped on the mantel, tables,
and chairs, scattering things right and left. Finally he started to run up a lace window curtain
back of the sewing machine. On top of the machine was a plate of warm cookies that Charlie
had just brought to me, and getting a sniff of those the squirrel stopped instantly, hesitated
just a second, and then over he jumped, took a cookie with his paws and afterwards held it
with his teeth until he had settled himself comfortably, when he again took it in his paws
and proceeded to eat with the greatest relish. After he had eaten all he very well could, he
hid the rest back of the curtain in quite an at-home way. There was nothing at all wonderful
in all this, except that the squirrel was just from the piney woods where warm sugar cakes
are unknown, so how did he know they were good to eat?

I was at the saw-mill four days, and then we all came in together and on bob sleds. There were
four mules for each sleigh, so not much attention was paid to the great depth of snow. Both
horses knew when we got to the bridge and gave Bryant trouble. Every bit of the trail out had
been obliterated by drifting snow, and I still wonder how these animals recognized the precise
spot when the snow was level in every place.

We found the house in excellent order, and consider our new Chinaman a treasure. A few days
before Faye went to the mill I made some Boston brown bread. I always make that myself, as
I fancy I can make it very good, but for some reason I was late in getting it on to steam that
day, so when I went to the kitchen to put it in the oven I found a much-abused Chinaman. When
he saw what I was about to do he became very angry and his eyes looked green. He said, "You
no put him in l'oven." I said, "Yes, Charlie, I have to for one hour." He said, "You no care
workman, you sploil my dee-nee, you get some other boy."

Now Charlie was an excellent servant and I did not care to lose him, but to take that bread
out was not to be considered. I would no longer have been mistress of my own house, so I told
him quietly, "Very well," and closed the oven door with great deliberation. The dinner was
a little better than usual, and I wondered all the time what the outcome would be. I knew that
he was simply piqued because I had not let him make the bread. After his work was all done
he came in and said, with a smile that was almost a grin, "I go now--I send 'nother boy," and
go he did. But the "other boy" came in time to give us a delicious breakfast, and everything
went on just the same as when old Charlie was here. He is in Bozeman and comes to see us often.

This Charlie takes good care of my chickens that are my pride and delight. There are twenty,
and every one is snow white; some have heavy round topknots. I found them at different ranches.
It is so cold here that chicken roosts have to be covered with strips of blanket and made flat
and broad, so the feathers will cover the chickens' feet, otherwise they will be frozen. It
is a treat to have fresh eggs, and without having to pay a dollar and a half per dozen for
them. That is the price we have paid for eggs almost ever since we came to the Territory.

FORT ELLIS, MONTANA TERRITORY, June, 1880.

EVERYTHING is packed and on the wagons--that is, all but the camp outfit which we will use
on the trip over--and in the morning we will start on our way back to Fort Shaw. With the furniture
that belongs to the quarters and the camp things, we were so comfortable in our own house we
decided that there was no necessity to go to Mrs. Adams's, except for dinner and breakfast,
although both General and Mrs. Adams have been most hospitable and kind.

The way these two moves have come about seems very funny to me. Faye was ordered over here
to command C Company when it was left without an officer, because he was senior second lieutenant
in the regiment and entitled to it. The captain of this company has been East on recruiting
service, and has just been relieved by Colonel Knight, captain of Faye's company at Shaw; as
that company is now without an officer, the senior second lieutenant has to return and command
his own company. This recognition of a little rank has been expensive to us, and disagreeable
too. The lieutenants are constantly being moved about, often details that apparently do not
amount to much but which take much of their small salary.

The Chinaman is going with us, for which I am most thankful, and at his request we have decided
to take the white chickens. Open boxes have been made specially for them that fit on the rear
ends of the wagons, and we think they will be very comfortable--but we will certainly look
like emigrants when on the road. The two squirrels will go also. The men of the company have
sent me three squirrels during the winter. The dearest one of all had been injured and lived
only a few days. The flying squirrel is the least interesting and seems stupid. It will lie
around and sleep during the entire day, but at dark will manage to get on some high perch and
flop down on your shoulder or head when you least expect it and least desire it, too. The little
uncanny thing cannot fly, really, but the webs enable it to take tremendous leaps. I expect
that it looks absurd for us to be taking across the country a small menagerie, but the squirrels
were presents, and of course had to go, and the chickens are beautiful, and give us quantities
of eggs. Besides, if we had left the chickens, Charlie might not have gone, for he feeds them
and watches over them as if they were his very own, and looks very cross if the striker gives
them even a little corn.

Night before last an unusually pleasant dancing party was given by Captain McAndrews, when
Faye and I were guests of honor. It was such a surprise to us, and so kind in Captain McAndrews
to give it, for he is a bachelor. Supper was served in his own quarters, but dancing was in
the vacant set adjoining. The rooms were beautifully decorated with flags, and the fragrant
cedar and spruce. Mrs. Adams, wife of the commanding officer, superintended all of the arrangements
and also assisted in receiving. The supper was simply delicious--as all army suppers are--and
I fancy that she and other ladies of the garrison were responsible for the perfect salads and
cakes.

The orchestra was from Bozeman, so the music was very good. Quite a party of young people also,
many of them friends of ours, came up from Bozeman, which not only swelled the number of guests,
but gave life to the dance, for in a small garrison like this the number of partners is limited.
The country about here is beautiful now; the snow is melting on the mountains, and there is
such a lovely green every place, I almost wish that we might have remained until fall, for
along the valleys and through the canons there are grand trails for horseback riding, while
Fort Shaw has nothing of the kind.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, July, 1880.

WE are with the commanding officer and his wife for a few days while our house is being settled.
Every room has just been painted and tinted and looks so clean and bright. The Chinaman, squirrels,
and chickens are there now, and are already very much at home, and Charlie is delighted that
the chickens are so much admired.

The first part of the trip over was simply awful! The morning was beautiful when we left Ellis--warm
and sunny--and everybody came to see us oft. We started in fine spirits, and all went well
for ten or twelve miles, when we got to the head waters of the Missouri, where the three small
rivers, Gallatin, Jefferson, and Madison join and make the one big river. The drive through
the forest right there is usually delightful, and although we knew that the water was high
in the Gallatin by Fort Ellis, we were wholly unprepared for the scene that confronted us when
we reached the valley. Not one inch of ground could be seen--nothing but the trees surrounded;
by yellow, muddy water that showed quite a current.

The regular stage road has been made higher than the ground because of these July freshets,
when the snow is melting on the mountains, but it was impossible to keep on it, as its many
turns could not be seen, and it would not have helped much either, as the water was deep. The
ambulance was in the lead, of course, so we were in all the excitement of exploring unseen
ground. The driver would urge the mules, and if the leaders did not go down, very good--we
would go on, perhaps a few yards. If they did go down enough to show that it was dangerous
that way, he would turn them in another direction and try there. Sometimes it was necessary
almost to turn around in order to keep upon the higher ground. In this way mules and drivers
worked until four o'clock in the afternoon, the dirty water often coming up over the floor
of the ambulance, and many times it looked as if we could not go on one step farther without
being upset in the mud and water.

But at four we reached an island, where there was a small house and a stable for the stage
relay horses, and not far beyond was another island where Faye decided to camp for the night.
It was the only thing he could have done. He insisted upon my staying at the house, but I finally
convinced him that the proper place for me was in camp, and I went on with him. The island
was very small, and the highest point above water could not have been over two feet. Of course
everything had to be upon it--horses, mules, wagons, drivers, Faye and I, and the two small
squirrels, and the chickens also. In addition to our own traveling menagerie there were native
inhabitants of that island--millions and millions of mosquitoes, each one with a sharp appetite
and sharp sting. We thought that we had learned all about vicious mosquitoes while in the South,
but the Southern mosquitoes are slow and caressing in comparison to those Montana things.

It was very warm, and the Chinaman felt sorry for the chickens shut up in the boxes, where
fierce quarrels seemed to be going on all the time. So after he had fed them we talked it over,
and decided to let them out, as they could not possibly get away from us across the big body
of water. There were twenty large chickens in one big box, and twenty-seven small ones that
had been brought in a long box by themselves. Well, Charlie and one of the men got the boxes
down and opened them. At once the four or five mother hens clucked and scratched and kept on
clucking until the little chicks were let out, when every one of them ran to its own mother,
and each hen strutted off with her own brood. That is the absolute truth, but is not all. When
night came the chickens went back to their boxes to roost--all but the small ones. Those were
left outside with their mothers, and just before daylight Charlie raised a great commotion
when he put them up for the day's trip.

When we were about ready to start in the morning, a man came over from the house and told Faye
that he would pilot us through the rest of the water, that it was very dangerous in places,
where the road had been built up, and if a narrow route was not carefully followed, a team
would go down a bank of four or five feet. He had with him just the skeleton of a wagon--the
four wheels with two or three long boards on top, drawn by two horses. So we went down in the
dirty water again, that seemed to get deeper and deeper as we splashed on.

Now and then I could catch a glimpse of our pilot standing up on the boards very much like
a circus rider, for the wagon wheels were twisting around over the roots of trees and stones,
in a way that required careful balancing on his part. We got along very well until about noon,
when a soldier came splashing up on a mule and told Faye that one of the wagons had turned
over! That was dreadful news and made me most anxious about the trunks and chests, and the
poor chickens, too, all of which might be down under the water.

They got the ambulance under some trees, unfastened the mules and led them away, leaving me
alone, without even the driver. The soldier had thoughtfully led up Pete for Faye to ride back,
and the mules were needed to assist in pulling the wagon up. Fortunately the wagon was caught
by a tree and did not go entirely over, and it so happened, too, that it was the one loaded
more with furniture than anything else, so not much damage was done.

Our pilot had left us some time before, to hurry on and get any passengers that might come
in the stage that runs daily between Helena and Bozeman. As soon as I began to look around
a little after I was left alone in the ambulance, I discovered that not so very far ahead was
an opening in the trees and bushes, and that a bit of beautiful dry land could be seen. I was
looking at it with longing eyes when suddenly something came down the bank and on into the
water, and not being particularly brave, I thought of the unprotected position I was in. But
the terrible monster turned out to be our pilot, and as he came nearer, I saw that he had something
on the wagon--whether men or women or mere bags of stuff I could not tell.

But in time he got near enough for me to see that two men were with him--most miserable, scared
tourists--both standing up on the seesawing boards, the first with arms around the pilot's
neck, and the second with his arms around him. They were dressed very much alike, each one
having on his head an immaculate white straw hat, and over his coat a long--very long--linen
duster, and they both had on gloves! Their trousers were pulled up as high as they could get
them, giving a fine display of white hose and low shoes. The last one was having additional
woe, for one leg of his trousers was slipping down, and of course it was impossible for him
to pull it up and keep his balance. Every turn of the wheels the thick yellow water was being
spattered on them, and I can imagine the condition they were in by the time they reached the
little inn on the island. The pilot thought they were funny, too, for when he passed he grinned
and jerked his head back to call my attention to them. He called to know what had happened
to me, and I told him that I was a derelict, and he would ascertain the cause farther on.

After a while--it seemed hours to me--Faye and the wagons came up, and in time we got out of
the awful mess and on dry land. It was the Fourth of July, and we all wished for a gun or something
that would make a loud noise wherewith we could celebrate--not so much the day as our rejoicing
at getting out of the wilderness. The men were in a deplorable condition, wet and tired, for
no one had been able to sleep the night before because of the vicious mosquitoes and the stamping
of the poor animals. So, when Faye saw one of the drivers go to a spring for water, and was
told that it was a large, fine spring, he decided to camp right there and rest before going
farther.

But rest we could not, for the mosquitoes were there also, and almost as bad as they had been
on the island, and the tents inside were covered with them as soon as they were pitched. If
there is a person who thinks that a mosquito has no brain, and is incapable of looking ahead,
that person will soon learn his mistake if ever he comes to the Missouri River, Montana! The
heat was fierce, too, and made it impossible for us to remain in the tents, so we were obliged,
after all, to sit out under the trees until the air had cooled at night sufficiently to chill
the mosquitoes.

The chickens were let out at every camp, and each time, without fail, they flew up to their
boxes on the wagons. Charlie would put in little temporary roosts, that made them more comfortable,
and before daylight every morning he would gather up the little ones and the mothers and put
them in the crates for the day. He is willing and faithful, but has queer ideas about some
things. Just as I was getting in the ambulance the second morning on the trip, I heard a crunching
sound and then another, and looking back, I saw the Chinaman on top of the mess chest with
head bent over and elbows sticking out, jumping up and down with all his strength.

I ran over and told him not to do so, for I saw at once what was the matter. But he said, "He
velly blig--he no go downee--me flixee him," and up and down he went again, harder than ever.
After a lengthy argument he got down, and I showed him once more how to put the things in so
the top would shut tight. There were a good many pieces of broken china, and these Charlie
pitched over in the water with a grin that plainly said, "You see--me flixee you!" Of course
the soldiers saw it all and laughed heartily, which made Charlie very angry, and gave him a
fine opportunity to express himself in Chinese. The rest of the trip was pleasant, and some
of the camps were delightful, but I am afraid that I no longer possess beautiful white chickens--my
Chinaman seems to be the owner of all, big and small.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, August, 1880.

THE company has been ordered to "proceed without delay" to Fort Maginnis, a post that is just
being established, and to assist another company in building temporary log quarters. The other
company will go from Fort Missoula, and has to remain at the new post during the winter, but
Faye's company will return here in November. We were all ready to go to the Yellowstone Park
next week with General and Mrs. Bourke, but this order from Department Headquarters upsets
everything. The company was designated there, and go it must, although Faye has been at Fort
Shaw only six weeks. He has command, of course, as Colonel Knight is East on recruiting service,
and the first lieutenant is abroad.

General and Mrs. Bourke could not understand at first why I would not go with them to the park,
just the same, but I understood perfectly, and said at once that I would go to Maginnis with
Faye. For, to go in one direction where there is only a weekly mail, and Faye to go in another
direction where there is no mail at all, and through an Indian country, was not to be considered
one second. I was half afraid that the commanding officer might forbid my going with Faye,
as he could have done, but he did not, and when he saw that I could not be persuaded to change
my mind, an ambulance was ordered to go with the command, so I can have a shelter when it storms,
for I shall ride Bettie on the trip.

The distance over is one hundred and fifty miles right across mountains and valleys, and there
will be only a faint trail to guide us, and I am anticipating great delight in such a long
horseback ride through a wild country. We will have everything for our comfort, too. Faye will
be in command, and that means much, and a young contract surgeon, who has been recently appointed,
will go with us, and our Chinese cook will go also. I have always wanted to take a trip of
this kind, and know that it will be like one long picnic, only much nicer. I never cared for
real picnics--they always have so much headache with them. We have very little to do for the
march as our camp outfit is in unusually fine condition. After Charlie's "flixee" so much mess-chest
china, Faye had made to order a complete set for four people of white agate ware with blue
bands. We have two sets of plates, vegetable dishes, cups and saucers, egg cups, soup plates,
and a number of small pieces. The plates and dishes, also platters, can be folded together,
and consequently require very little room, and it is a great comfort to know that these things
are unbreakable, and that we will not be left without plates for the table when we get in the
wilds, and the ware being white looks very nice, not in the least like tin. It came yesterday,
just in time.

The two squirrels I carried to the woods and turned loose. I could not take them, and I would
not leave them to be neglected perhaps. The "Tiger" was still a tiger, and as wild and fierce
as when he came from the saw-mill, and was undoubtedly an old squirrel not to be taught new
tricks. The flying thing was wholly lacking in sense. I scattered pounds of nuts all about
and hope that the two little animals will not suffer. The Chinaman insisted upon our taking
those chickens! He goes out every now and then and gives them big pans of food and talks to
them in Chinese with a voice and expression that makes one almost want to weep, because the
chickens have to be left behind.

We are to start on the eighteenth, and on the nineteenth we had expected to give a dinner--a
very nice one, too. I am awfully sorry that we could not have given it before going away, for
there are so many things to do here during the winter. The doctor has had no experience whatever
in camp life, and we are wondering how he will like it. He looks like a man who would much
prefer a nice little rocking-chair in a nice little room.

CAMP NEAR JUNOT'S, IN THE JUDITH BASIN, August, 1880.

THIS will be left at a little trading store as we pass to-morrow morning, with the hope that
it will soon be taken on to Benton and posted.

So far, the trip has been delightful, and every bit as nice as I had anticipated. The day we
left the post was more than hot--it was simply scorching; and my whole face on the right side,
ear and all, was blistered before we got to the ferry. Just now I am going through a process
of peeling which is not beautifying, and is most painful.

Before we had come two miles it was discovered that a "washer" was lacking on one of the wheels
of a wagon, and a man was sent back on a mule to get one. This caused a delay and made Faye
cross, for it really was inexcusable in the wagon master to send a wagon out on a trip like
this in that condition. The doctor did not start with the command, but rode up while we were
waiting for the man with the washer. The soldiers were lounging on the ground near the wagons,
talking and laughing; but when they saw the doctor coming, there was perfect silence over there,
and I watched and listened, curious to see what effect the funny sight would have upon them.
First one sat up, then another, and some stood up, then some one of them giggled, and that
was quite enough to start everyone of them to laughing. They were too far away for the laughing
and snickering to be disrespectful, or even to be noticed much, but I knew why they laughed,
for I laughed too.

The doctor did not present a military appearance. He is the very smallest man I ever saw, and
he was on a government horse that is known by its great height--sixteen hands and two inches,
I believe--and the little man's stirrups were about half way down the horse's sides, and his
knees almost on the horse's back. All three of us are wearing officers' white cork helmets,
but the doctor's is not a success, being ever so much too large for his small head, consequently
it had tilted back and found a resting place on his shoulders, covering his ears and the upper
part of his already hot face. For a whip he carried a little switch not much longer than his
gauntlets, and which would have puzzled the big horse, if struck by it. With it all the little
man could not ride, and as his government saddle was evidently intended for a big person, he
seemed uncertain as to which was the proper place to sit--the pommel, the middle, or the curved
back. All during that first day's march the soldiers watched him. I knew this, although we
were at the head of the column--for every time he would start his horse up a little I could
hear smothered laughter back of us.

It was late when we finally got across the Missouri on the funny ferryboat, so we camped for
the night on this side near the ferryman's house. It was the doctor's first experience in camp,
and of course he did not know how to make himself comfortable. He suffered from the heat, and
became still warmer by rushing up and down fanning himself and fighting mosquitoes. Then after
dinner he had his horse saddled, a soldier helped him to mount, and he rode back and forth
bobbing all sorts of ways, until Faye could stand it no longer and told him to show some mercy
to the beast that had carried him all day, and would have to do the same for days to come.

Most of the camps have been in beautiful places--always by some clear stream where often there
was good trout fishing. In one or two of these we found grayling, a very gamey fish, that many
epicures consider more delicate than the trout. We have a fine way of keeping fish for the
following day. As soon as possible after they have been caught we pack them in long, wet grass
and put them in a cool spot, and in this way they will keep remarkably fresh.

We have had an abundance of game, too--all kinds of grouse and prairie chicken, and the men
killed one antelope. The Chinaman thought that Faye shot quite too many birds, and began to
look cross when they were brought in, which annoyed me exceedingly, and I was determined to
stop it. So one evening, after Faye had taken some young chicken to the cook tent, I said to
the doctor, "Come with me," and going over to the tent I picked up the birds and went to some
trees near by, and handing the doctor one, asked him to help me pick them, at the same time
commencing to pull the feathers out of one myself. The poor doctor looked as though he was
wishing he had made a specialty of dementia, and stood like a goose, looking at the chicken.
Charlie soon became very restless--went inside the tent, and then came out, humming all the
time. Finally he gave in, and coming over to us, fairly snatched the birds from me and said,
"Me flixee him," and carried the whole bunch back of his tent where we could not see him. Since
that evening Charlie has been the most delighted one in camp when Faye has brought birds in.

All the way we have had only a faint trail to follow, and often even that could not be seen
after we had crossed a stream. At such places Faye, the doctor, and I would spread out and
search for it. As Bettie and I were always put in the middle, we were usually the finders.
One day we came up a hill that was so steep that twelve mules had to be hitched to each wagon
in order to get it up. Another day we went down a hill where the trail was so sidling, that
the men had to fasten big ropes to the upper side of each wagon to hold it right side up as
it was drawn down. Another day we made only a few miles because of the deep-cut banks of a
narrow little stream that wound around and across a valley, and which we had to cross eight
times. At every crossing the banks had to be sloped off and the bed built up before the wagons
could be drawn over. Watching all this has been most entertaining and the whole trip is making
a man of the doctor.

To-night we are in camp in the Judith Basin and by the Judith River--a beautiful stream, and
by far the largest we have seen on the march. And just across the river from us is a stockade,
very high and very large, with heavy board gate that was closed as we came past. We can see
the roof of the cabin inside, and a stovepipe sticking up through it. Faye says that he has
just heard that the place is a nest of horse thieves of the boldest and most daring type, and
that one of them is coming to see him this evening! He was told all this by the Frenchman,
Junot, who has a little trading store a mile or so from here.

Faye and the doctor rode over there as soon as the tents had been pitched, to ascertain if
the company from Missoula had passed. Our trail and the one from the Bitter Root valley fork
there. The company passed several days ago, so we will go on in the morning; otherwise we would
have been obliged to wait for it.

I had to stay here all alone as Faye would not consent to my going with him. He gave me one
of his big pistols, and I had my own small one, and these I put on a table in the tent, after
they had gone, and then fastened the tent flaps tight and sat down to await events. But the
tent soon became stifling, and it occurred to me that it was foolish to shut myself up so I
could not see whatever might come until it was right upon me, so putting my pistol in my pocket
and hiding the other, I opened the tent and went out. The first thing I saw was a fishing pole
with line and fly, and that I took, and the next was the first sergeant watching me. I knew
then that Faye had told him to take care of me.

I went over to tell him that I was going for a fish, and then on down to the beautiful river,
whose waters are green and very much the color of the Niagara River. I cast the fly over on
the water, and instantly a large fish came up, took the fly, and went down again so easily
and gracefully that he scarcely made a ripple on the water until he felt the pull of the line.
That was when I forgot everything connected with camp--Faye, horse thieves, and Indians! I
had no reel, of course, and getting the big fish out of the water was a problem, for I was
standing on a rather high and steep bank. It jumped and jerked in a way that made me afraid
I might be pulled down instead of my pulling the fish up, so I began to draw him in, and then
up, hand over hand, not daring to breathe while he was suspended in the air. It called for
every bit of my strength, as the shiny thing was so heavy. But I got him; and his length was
just twice the width of my handkerchief--a splendid salmon trout. I laid it back of a rock
in the shade, and went on down the stream, casting my one fly, and very soon I caught another
trout of precisely the same size as the first, and which I landed the same way, too. I put
it by the rock with the other.

I kept on down the river, whipping it with my lucky fly every few steps, but I caught no more
fish, neither did I get a rise, but I did not mind that, for I had the two beauties, and I
was having a grand time too. I had caught both large fish without assistance and with a common
willow pole. All that serenity was upset, however, when I heard my name called with such a
roar that I came near jumping over the bank to save myself from whatever was after me, but
the "What are you doing so far from camp?" came just in time to stop me.

It was Faye, of course, and he was cross because I had gone so far alone, and had, in a way,
disregarded his instructions--had done as I pleased after he had left me alone. I wanted to
go to Junot's, therefore was not one bit sorry that I had frightened him, and said not a word
to his sputtering about the danger from Indians and horse thieves as we started back to camp.
After we had gone a little distance up I said, "I left something by that rock." I tried to
lift the big fish to show him, but they were too heavy, and I had to hold up one at a time
as I said, "This is Mr. Indian and this Mr. Horse Thief!" Faye was almost speechless over my
having caught two such large trout, and started to camp with them at such a pace I had to run,
almost, to keep up. He thought of something of great importance to say to the first sergeant,
simply because he wanted to show them to the company. Some beautiful trout have been brought
in by the enlisted men who went up the river, and I am so glad, for now they will have such
a nice supper.

The horse thieves undoubtedly knew this country well, when they selected this valley for their
hiding place. They have an abundance of delicious fish the year round at their very door, and
there is any amount of game near, both furred and feathered, and splendid vegetables they can
certainly raise, for they have just sent Faye a large grain sack overflowing with tender, sweet
corn, new beets, turnips, cabbage, and potatoes. These will be a grand treat to us, as our
own vegetables gave out several days ago. But just think of accepting these things from a band
of desperadoes and horse thieves! Their garden must be inside the immense stockade, for there
is nothing of the kind to be seen outside. They probably keep themselves in readiness for a
long siege by sheriff and posse that may come down upon them at any time without warning. And
all the time they know that if ever caught stealing horses, their trial will last just as long
as it will take to drag them to a tree that has a good strong branch.

Charlie says that he is a mason and reads every evening in a book that is of his own printing.
It is really wonderful. Every evening after dinner he sits out in front of his tent with a
large silk handkerchief over his head, and perhaps another with which to fight the ever-present
mosquitoes, and reads until dark. He is the only literary person in the command and we are
quite proud of him. He is a great comfort to Faye and me, for his cooking is delicious. The
doctor has a camp appetite now and is not as finicky as when we started on the trip.

FORT MAGINNIS, MONTANA TERRITORY, September, 1880.

IT is almost one week since we got here, but I have not written before as no mail has been
sent out. I hope that the letter left with Junot has been received, also the two or three notes
that were given to horsemen we met on their way to Fort Benton.

At first, Faye did not tell me all that he knew about those horse thieves in the Judith Basin,
but it finally came out that the trader, Junot, had told him a most blood-curdling tale of
events to come. He had declared most positively that the desperadoes were planning to attack
the command, the very next morning while crossing the Judith Mountains, with a hope, of course,
of getting the animals. He also told Faye that one of them would be in camp that evening to
ask permission to go with him to Maginnis. Faye said the whole story was absurd, particularly
the attack, as those horse thieves would never dare attack government troops. Besides, he had
over fifty good men with him, and probably there were only ten or twelve horse thieves. So
not much attention was paid to what the old Frenchman had said.

But after dinner, when we were sitting outside and Faye and the doctor were smoking, a man
came around the corner of the tent with long, swinging strides, and was in our midst before
we had dreamed of anyone being near. He spoke to Faye courteously, and declining a chair, dropped
down full length on the ground, with elbows in the grass and chin on the palms of his hands.
His feet were near the tent and his face out, which placed him in a fine position to observe
everything in the camp without anyone seeing that he was doing so, especially as his eyes were
screened by a soft, broad-brimmed hat. It was impossible to see their color, of course.

He was young--not over twenty-eight or thirty--and handsome, with a face that was almost girlish
in its fairness. His hair was neatly cut, and so was his light mustache, and his smooth face
showed that he had recently shaved. He was tall and lithe, and from his chin to his toes was
dressed in fine buckskin--shirt, trousers, leggings, and moccasins--and around his neck was
tied a blue cotton handkerchief, new and clean. That the man could be a horse thief, an outlaw,
seemed most incredible.

He talked very well, too, of the country and the game, and we were enjoying the change in our
usual after-dinner camp conversation, when suddenly up he jumped, and turning around looked
straight at Faye, and then like a bomb came the request to be allowed to go with him to Fort
Maginnis! He raised the brim of his hat, and there seemed to be a look of defiance in his steel-blue
eyes. But Faye had been expecting this, and knowing that he was more than a match for the villain,
he got up from his camp stool leisurely, and with great composure told the man: "Certainly,
I will be very glad to have some one along who knows the trail so well." To be told that he
knew the trail must have been disconcerting to the man, but not one word did he say in reference
to it.

After he had gone, Faye went over to the company, where he remained some time, and I learned
later that he had been giving the first sergeant careful instructions for the next day. I could
not sleep that night because of horrible dreams--dreams of long, yellow snakes with fiery eyes
crawling through green grass. I have thought so many times since of how perfectly maddening
it must have been to those horse thieves to have twenty-two nice fat mules and three horses
brought almost within the shadow of their very own stockade, and yet have it so impossible
to gather them in!

At the appointed time the buckskin-man appeared the following morning on a beautiful chestnut
horse with fancy bridle and Mexican saddle, and with him came a friend, his "pal" he told Faye,
who was much older and was a sullen, villainous-looking man. Both were armed with rifles and
pistols, but there was nothing remarkable in that; in this country it is a necessity. We started
off very much as usual, except that Faye kept rather close to the "pal," which left Bettie
and me alone most of the time, just a little at one side. I noticed that directly back of the
horse thieves walked a soldier, armed with rifle and pistol, and Faye told me that night that
he was one of the best sharpshooters in the Army, and that he was back of those men with orders
to shoot them down like dogs if they made one treacherous move. The buckskin man was one of
the most graceful riders I ever saw, and evidently loved his fine mount, as I saw him stroke
his neck several times--and the man himself was certainly handsome.

Faye had told me that I must not question anything he might tell me to do, so after we had
crossed the valley and gone up the mountains a little distance he called to me in a voice unnecessarily
loud, that I must be tired riding so far, and had better get in the ambulance for a while.
I immediately dismounted, and giving the bridle rein to a soldier, I waited for the ambulance
to come up. As I got in, I felt that perhaps I was doing the first act in an awful tragedy.
The horsemen and wagons had stopped during the minute or two I was getting in, but I saw soldiers
moving about, and just as soon as I was seated I looked out to see what was going on.

A splendid old sergeant was going to the front with four soldiers, whom I knew were men to
be trusted, each one with rifle, bayonet, and belt full of cartridges, and then I saw that
some of the plans for that day's trip had not been told to me. The men were placed in front
of everyone, four abreast, and Faye at once told the thieves that under no conditions must
one ever get in front of the advance guard. How they must have hated it all--four drilled soldiers
in front of them and a sharpshooter back of them, and all the time treated by Faye as honored
guests!

There were four men at the rear of the wagons, and the posting of these rear and advance guards,
and placing men on either side of the wagons, had been done without one order from Faye, so
my dismounting must have been the signal for the sergeant to carry out the orders Faye had
given him the night before. Not by one turn of the head did those outlaws show that they noticed
those changes.

In that way we crossed the range. We met a dozen or more men of the very roughest type, each
one heavily armed. They were in parties of two and three, and Faye thinks that a signal was
passed between one of them and the "pal." But there was no attack as had been predicted! What
might have taken place, however, if Faye had not been prepared, no one can tell. Certainly
part of Junot's story had been carried out--the horse thief came to the tent and came with
us to Maginnis, and it was not because he wanted the protection of the troops. Faye insists
that an attack was never thought of, but as he was responsible for government property, including
the animals, he had to make preparation to protect them. Of course those men wanted only the
animals. We passed many places on the divide that were ideal for an ambush--bluffs, huge boulders,
and precipices--everything perfect for a successful hold up.

The men came on to the post with us, and were in camp two nights with the soldiers. The second
day from the Judith, we stopped for luncheon near a small stream where there were a great many
choke-cherry bushes, and "Buckskin Joe"*--that was his name--brought large bunches of the cherries
to me. His manner showed refinement, and I saw that his wonderful eyes could be tender as well
as steely. Perhaps he had sisters at the old home, and perhaps, too, I was the first woman
he had seen in months to remind him of them. I shall always believe that he is from good people
some place East, that his "dare-devil" nature got him into some kind of trouble there, and
that he came to this wild country to hide from Justice. The very morning after we got here,
not long after our breakfast, he appeared at our tent with a fine young deer slung across the
back of his horse, which he presented to us. He had just killed it. It was most acceptable,
as there was no fresh meat in camp. He and his "pal" stayed around that day and night, and
then quietly disappeared. Not one of the soldiers, even, saw them go.

*About six years after this occurrence, there was a graphic account in the Western papers of
the horrible death of "Buckskin Joe," who was known as one of the most daring and slippery
horse thieves in the Territory. After evading arrest many times, he was finally hunted down
by a sheriff's posse, when his fiendish fighting excited the admiration of those who were killing
him. A bullet broke one of his legs, and he went down, but he kept on shooting--and so fast
that no one dared approach him. And when the forearm of his pistol hand was shattered, he grasped
the pistol with the other hand and continued to shoot, even when he could not sit up, but had
to hold himself up by the elbow of his broken arm. He was finally killed, fairly riddled with
bullets. He knew, of course, all the time what his fate would be if taken alive, and he chose
the cold lead instead of the end of a rope.

It was pleasant to meet our old friends here. Colonel Palmer is in command, and I was particularly
glad to see them. After Mrs. Palmer had embraced me she held me off a little and said: "What
have you been doing to your face? my, but you are ugly!" The skin on the blistered side has
peeled off in little strips, leaving the new skin very white in between the parched brown of
the old, so I expect I do resemble a zebra or an Indian with his war paint on. The post, which
is only a camp as yet, is located at the upper end of a beautiful valley, and back of us is
a canon and mountains are on both sides. Far down the valley is a large Indian village, and
we can distinctly see the tepees, and often hear the "tom-toms" when the Indians dance. There
are other Indian camps near, and it is not safe to go far from the tents without an escort.
It seems to be a wonderful country for game--deer, grouse, and prairie chicken. Twice we have
seen deer come down from the mountains and drink from the stream just below the post. Bettie
and I have scared up chicken every time we have taken little runs around the camp, and Faye
has shot large bags of them. They are not as great a treat to us as to our friends, for we
had so many on the way over.

We have two wall tents, one for sitting room and one for bedroom, and in front a "fly" has
been stretched. Our folding camp furniture makes the tents very comfortable. Back of these
is the mess, or dining tent, and back of that is the cook tent. Charlie has a small range now,
which keeps him squeaking or half singing all the time. One morning, before we got this stove
from the quartermaster, breakfast was late, very late. The wind was blowing a gale, and after
waiting and waiting, we concluded that Charlie must be having trouble with the little sheet-iron
camp stove. So Faye went back to see what was the matter. He returned laughing, and said he
had found a most unhappy Chinaman; that Charlie was holding the stove down with a piece of
wood with one hand, and with the other was trying to keep the breakfast on the stove.

You know the stovepipe goes up through a piece of tin fastened in the roof of the tent, which
is slanting, and when the canvas catches the wind and flops up and down and every other way,
the stovepipe naturally has to go with it. The wind was just right that morning to flop everything--canvas,
pipe, stove, and breakfast, too--particularly the delicate Saratoga chips Charlie had prepared
for us, and which, Faye said, were being blown about like yellow rose leaves. The poor little
heathen was distracted, but when he saw Faye he instantly became a general and said at once,
"You hole-ee him--me takee bleckfus." So Faye having a desire for breakfast, held down the
stove while Charlie got things together. The Saratoga chips were delicate and crisp and looked
nice, too, but neither the doctor nor I asked Faye if they were some of the "rose leaves" or
just plain potatoes from a dish!

Charlie is splendid and most resourceful. Very near our tent is a small stream of cold, clear
water, and on one side of this he has made a little cave of stones through which the water
runs, and in this he keeps the butter, milk, and desserts that require a cool place. He is
pottering around about something all the time. There is just one poor cow in the whole camp,
so we cannot get much milk--only one pint each day--but we consider ourselves very fortunate
in getting any at all. I brought over fourteen dozen eggs, packed in boxes with salt. We are
to start back the first of November, so after we got here I worked out a little problem in
mathematics, and found that the eggs would last by using only two each day. But Charlie does
better than this; he will manage to get along without eggs for a day or two, and will then
surprise us with a fine omelet or custard. But he keeps an exact account and never exceeds
his allowance.

The doctor is still with us, and shows no inclination to join the officers' mess that has just
been started. He seems to think that he is one of the family, and would be greatly surprised,
and hurt probably, if he should discover that we would rather be alone.

FORT MAGINNIS, MONTANA TERRITORY, September, 1880.

THERE is a large village of Cree Indians in the valley below, and for several days they were
a great nuisance in the garrison. One bright morning it was discovered that a long line of
them had left their tepees and were coming in this direction. They were riding single file,
of course, and were chanting and beating "tom-toms" in a way to make one's blood feel frozen.
I was out on one of the little hills at the time, riding Bettie, and happened to be about the
first to see them. I started for the post at once at a fast gait and told Faye and Colonel
Palmer about them, but as soon as it was seen that they were actually coming to the post, I
rode out again about as fast as I had come in, and went to a bit of high ground where I could
command a view of the camp, and at the same time be screened by bushes and rocks. And there
I remained until those savages were well on their way back to their own village.

Then I went in, and was laughed at by everyone, and assured by some that I had missed a wonderful
sight. The Crees are Canadian Indians and are here for a hunt, by permission of both governments.
They and the Sioux are very hostile to each other; therefore when four or five Sioux swooped
down upon them a few days ago and drove off twenty of their ponies, the Crees were frantic.
It was an insult not to be put up with, so some of their best young warriors were sent after
them. They recaptured the ponies and killed one Sioux.

Now an Indian is shrewd and wily! The Sioux had been a thief, therefore the Crees cut off his
right hand, fastened it to a long pole with the fingers pointing up, and with much fuss and
feathers--particularly feathers--brought it to the "White Chief," to show him that the good,
brave Crees had killed one of the white man's enemies! The leading Indian carried the pole
with the hand, and almost everyone of those that followed carried something also--pieces of
flags, or old tin pans or buckets, upon which they beat with sticks, making horrible noises.
Each Indian was chanting in a sing-song, mournful way. They were dressed most fancifully; some
with red coats, probably discarded by the Canadian police, and Faye said that almost everyone
had on quantities of beads and feathers.

Bringing the hand of a dead Sioux was only an Indian's way of begging for something to eat,
and this Colonel Palmer understood, so great tin cups of hot coffee and boxes of hard-tack
were served to them. Then they danced and danced, and to me it looked as though they intended
to dance the rest of their lives right on that one spot. But when they saw that any amount
of furious dancing would not boil more coffee, they stopped, and finally started back to their
village.

Faye tells me that as he was going to his tent from the dancing, he noticed an Indian who seemed
to be unusually well clad, his moccasins and leggings were embroidered with beads and he was
wrapped in a bright-red blanket, head as well as body. As he passed him a voice said in the
purest English, "Lieutenant, can you give me a sear spring for my rifle?" The only human being
near was that Indian, wrapped closely in a blanket, with only his eyes showing, precisely as
one would expect to see a hostile dressed. Faye said that it gave him the queerest kind of
a sensation, as though the voice had come from another world. He asked the Indian where he
had learned such good English and technical knowledge of guns, and he said at the Carlisle
school. He said also that he was a Piegan and on a visit to some Cree friends. This was one
of the many proofs that we have had, that no matter how good an education the Indian may receive,
he will return to his blanket and out-of-the-pot way of living just as soon as he returns to
his people. It would be foolish to expect anything different.

But those Cree Indians! The coffee had been good, very good, and they wanted more, so the very
next morning they brought to Colonel Palmer an old dried scalp lock, scalp of "White Chief's
enemy," with the same ceremony as they had brought the hand. Then they sat around his tent
and watched him, giving little grunts now and then until in desperation he ordered coffee for
them, after which they danced. The men gave them bits of tobacco too. Well, they kept this
performance up three or four days, each day bringing something to Colonel Palmer to make him
think they had killed a Sioux. This became very tiresome; besides, the soldiers were being
robbed of coffee, so Colonel Palmer shut himself in his tent and refused to see them one day,
and an orderly told them to go away and make no noise. They finally left the post looking very
mournful, the men said. I told Colonel Palmer that he might better have gone out on the hills
as I did; that it was ever so much nicer than being shut up in a tent.

Bettie is learning to rear higher and higher, and I ride Pete now. The last time I rode her
she went up so straight that I slipped back in my saddle, and some of the enlisted men ran
out to my assistance. I let her have her own way and came back to the tent, and jumping down,
declared to Faye that I would never ride her again. She is very cute in her badness, and having
once discovered that I didn't like a rearing horse, she has proceeded to rear whenever she
wanted her own way. I have enjoyed riding her because she is so graceful and dainty, but I
have been told so many times that the horse was dangerous and would throw me, that perhaps
I have become a little nervous about her.

A detail of soldiers goes up in the mountains twice every day for poles with which to make
the roofs of the log quarters. They go along a trail on the other side of the creek, and on
this side is a narrow deer path that runs around the rocky side of a small mountain. Ever since
I have been here I have wanted to go back of the mountain by that path. So, when I happened
to be out on Pete yesterday afternoon at the time the men started, I at once decided to take
advantage of their protection and ride around the little mountain.

About half a mile up, there were quantities of bushes eight and ten feet high down in the creek
bed, and the narrow trail that Pete was on was about on a level with the tops of the bushes.
At my left the hill was very steep and covered with stones. I was having a delightful time,
feeling perfectly safe with so many soldiers within call. But suddenly things changed. Down
in those bushes there was a loud crashing and snapping, and then straight up into the air jumped
a splendid deer! His head and most of his neck were above the bushes, and for just one instant
he looked at us with big inquisitive eyes before he went down again.

When the deer went up Pete went up, too, on the steep hill, and as I was on his back I had
to go with him. The horse was badly frightened, snorted, and raised his tail high, and when
I tried to get him down on the trail, the higher up he went on the rolling stones. I could
almost touch the side of the mountain with my whip in places, it was so steep. It was a most
dangerous position to be in, and just what elevation I might have been carried to eventually
I do not know, had not the deer stopped his crashing through the bushes and bounded up on the
opposite bank, directly in front of the first team of mules, and then on he streaked it across
a plateau and far up a mountain side, his short white tail showing distinctly as he ran. With
the deer, Pete seemed to think that the Evil One had gone, too, and consented to return to
the trail and to cross the stream over to the wagons.

The corporal had stopped the wagons until he saw that I was safely down, and I asked him why
he had not killed the deer--we are always in need of game--and he said that he had not seen
him until he was in front of the mules, and that it was impossible then, as the deer did not
wait for them to get the rifles out of their cases on the bottom of the wagons. That evening
at the whist table I told Colonel Palmer about the deer and Pete, and saw at once that I had
probably gotten the poor corporal in trouble. Colonel Palmer was very angry that the men should
even think of going several miles from the post, in an Indian country, with their rifles cased
and strapped so they would have been practically useless in case of an attack.

Faye says that the men were not thinking of Indians, but simply trying to keep their rifles
from being marred and scratched, for if they did get so they would be "jumped" at the first
inspection. Colonel Palmer gave most positive orders for the soldiers to hold their rifles
in their hands on their way to and from the mountains, which perhaps is for the best.

But I am afraid they will blame me for such orders having been issued.

FORT MAGINNIS, MONTANA TERRITORY, October, 1880.

IT is not surprising that politicians got a military post established here, so this wonderful
country could be opened and settled, for the country itself is not only beautiful, but it has
an amount of game every place that is almost beyond belief. Deer are frequently seen to come
down from the mountains to the creek for water, and prairie chicken would come to our very
tents, I fancy, if left to follow their inclinations.

Faye is officer of the day every third day, but the other two days there is not much for him
to do, as the company is now working on the new quarters under the supervision of the quartermaster.
So we often go off on little hunts, usually for chicken, but sometimes we go up on one of the
mountains, where there are quantities of ruffed grouse. These are delicious, with meat as tender
and white as young chicken, and they are so pretty, too, when they spread the ruffs around
their necks and make fans of their short tail feathers.

Yesterday we went out for birds for both tables--the officers' mess and our own. The other
officers are not hunters, and Faye is the possessor of the only shotgun in the garrison, therefore
it has been a great pleasure to us to bring in game for all. Faye rides Bettie now altogether,
so I was on Pete yesterday. We had quite a number of chickens, but thought we would like to
get two or three more; therefore, when we saw a small covey fly over by some bushes, and that
one bird went beyond and dropped on the other side, Faye told me to go on a little, and watch
that bird if it rose again when he shot at the others. It is our habit usually for me to hold
Faye's horse when he dismounts to hunt, but that time he was some distance away, and had slipped
his hand through the bridle rein and was leading Bettie that way. Both horses are perfectly
broken to firearms, and do not in the least mind a gun. I have often seen Bettie prick up her
ears and watch the smoke come from the barrel with the greatest interest.

Everything went on very well until I got where I might expect to see the chicken, and then
I presume I gave more thought to the bird than to the ground the horse was on. At all events,
it suddenly occurred to me that the grass about us was very tall, and looking down closely
I discovered that Pete was in an alkali bog and slowly going down. I at once tried to get him
back to the ground we had just left, but in his frantic efforts to get his feet out of the
sticky mud, he got farther to one side and slipped down into an alkali hole of nasty black
water and slime. That I knew to be exceedingly dangerous, and I urged the horse by voice and
whip to get him out before he sank down too deep, but with all his efforts he could do nothing,
and was going down very fast and groaning in his terror.

Seeing that I must have assistance without delay, I called to Faye to come at once, and sat
very still until he got to us, fearing that if I changed my position the horse might fall over.
Faye came running, and finding a tuft of grass and solid ground to stand upon, pulled Pete
by the bridle and encouraged him until the poor beast finally struggled out, his legs and stomach
covered with the black slime up to the flaps of my saddle, so one can see what danger we were
in. There was no way of relieving the horse of my weight, as it was impossible for me to jump
and not get stuck in the mud myself. This is the only alkali hole we have discovered here.
It is screened by bunches of tall grass, and I expect that many a time I have ridden within
a few feet of it when alone, and if my horse had happened to slip down on any one of these
times, we probably would have been sucked from the face of the earth, and not one person to
come to our assistance or to know what had happened to us.

When Faye heard my call of distress, he threw the bridle back on Bettie, and slipping the shotgun
through the sling on the saddle, hurried over to me, not giving Bettie much thought. The horse
has always shown the greatest disinclination to leaving Pete, but having her own free will
that time, she did the unexpected and trotted to a herd of mules not far off, and as she went
down a little hill the precious shotgun slipped out of the sling to the ground, and the stock
broke! The gun is perfectly useless, and the loss of it is great to us and our friends. To
be in this splendid game country without a shotgun is deplorable; still, to have been buried
in a hole of black water and muck would have been worse.

Later. Such an awful wind storm burst upon us while I was writing two days ago, I was obliged
to stop. The day was cold and our tents were closed tight to keep the heat in, so we knew nothing
of the storm until it struck us, and with such fierceness it seemed as if the tents must go
down. Instantly there was commotion in camp--some of the men tightening guy ropes, and others
running after blankets and pieces of clothing that had been out for an airing, but every man
laughed and made fun of whatever he was doing. Soldiers are always so cheerful under such difficulties,
and I dearly love to hear them laugh, and yell, too, over in their tents.

The snow fell thick and fast, and the wind came through the canon back of us with the velocity
of a hurricane. As night came on it seemed to increase and the tents began to show the strain
and one or two had gone down, so the officers' families were moved into the unfinished log
quarters for the night. Colonel Palmer sent for me to go over also, and Major Bagley came twice
for me, saying our tents would certainly fall, and that it would be better to go then, than
in the middle of the night. But I had more faith in those tents, for they were new and pitched
remarkably well. Soon after we got here, long poles had been put up on stakes all along each
side of, and close to, the tents, and to these the guy ropes of both tents and "fly" covers
had been securely fastened, all of which had prevented much flopping of canvas. Dirt had been
banked all around the base of the tents, so with a very little fire we could be warm and fairly
comfortable.

The wind seemed to get worse every minute, and once in a while there would be a loud "boom"
when a big Sibley tent would be ripped open, and then would come yells from the men as they
scrambled after their belongings. After it became dark it seemed dismal, but Faye would not
go in a building, and I would not leave him alone to hold the stove down. This was our only
care and annoyance. It was intensely cold, and in order to have a fire we were compelled to
hold the pipe down on the little conical camp stove, for with the flopping of the tent and
fly, the pipe was in constant motion. Faye would hold it for a while, then I would relieve
him, and so on. The holding-down business was very funny for an hour or two, but in time it
became monotonous.

We got through the night very well, but did not sleep much. The tearing and snapping of tents,
and the shouting of the men when a tent would fall upon them was heard frequently, and when
we looked out in the morning the camp had the appearance of having been struck by a cyclone!
Two thirds of the tents were flat on the ground, others were badly torn, and the unfinished
log quarters only added to the desolation. Snow was over everything ten or twelve inches deep.
But the wind had gone down and the atmosphere was wonderfully clear, and sparkling, and full
of frost.

Dinner the evening before had not been a success, so we were very prompt to the nice hot breakfast
Charlie gave us. That Chinaman has certainly been a great comfort on this trip. The doctor
came over looking cross and sick. He said at once that we had been wise in remaining in our
comfortable tents, that everybody in the log houses was sneezing and complaining of stiff joints.
The logs have not been chinked yet, and, as might have been expected, wind and snow swept through
them. The stoves have not been set up, so even one fire was impossible. Two or three of their
tents did go down, however, the doctor's included, and perhaps they were safer in a breezy
house, after all.

The mail has been held back, and will start with us. The time of going was determined at Department
Headquarters, and we will have to leave here on the first--day after to-morrow--if such a thing
is possible. We return by the way of Benton. It is perfectly exasperating to see prairie chicken
all around us on the snow. Early this morning there was a large covey up in a tree just across
the creek from our tent, looking over at us in a most insolent manner. They acted as though
they knew there was not a shotgun within a hundred miles of them. They were perfectly safe,
for everyone was too nearly frozen to trouble them with a rifle.

Camping on the snow will not be pleasant, and we regret very much that the storm came just
at this time. Charlie is busy cooking all sorts of things for the trip, so he will not have
much to do on the little camp stove. He is a treasure, but says that he wishes we could stay
here; that he does not want to return to Fort Shaw. This puzzles me very much, as there are
so many Chinamen at Shaw and not one here. The doctor will not go back with us, as he has received
orders to remain at this post during the winter.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, November, 1880.

THE past few days have been busy ones. The house has received much needed attention and camp
things have been looked over and put away, ready for the next move. The trip back was a disappointment
to me and not at all pleasant. The wagons were very lightly loaded, so the men rode in them
all the way, and we came about forty miles each day, the mules keeping up a steady slow trot.
Of course I could not ride those distances at that gait, therefore I was compelled to come
in the old, jerky ambulance.

The snow was still deep when we left Maginnis, and at the first camp snow had to be swept from
the ground where our tent was pitched. But after that the weather was warm and sunny. We saw
the greatest number of feathered game--enormous flocks of geese, brant, and ducks. Our camp
one night was near a small lake just the other side of Benton, and at dusk hundreds of geese
came and lit on the water, until it looked like one big mass of live, restless things, and
the noise was deafening. Some of the men shot at them with rifles, but the geese did not seem
to mind much.

Charlie told me at Maginnis that he did not want to return to Shaw, and I wondered at that
so many times. I went in the kitchen two miserable mornings back and found him sitting down
looking unhappy and disconsolate. I do not remember to have ever seen a Chinaman sitting down
that way before, and was afraid he might be sick, but he said at once and without preamble,
"Me go 'way!" He saw my look of surprise and said again, "Me go 'way--Missee Bulk's Chinee-man
tellee me go 'way." I said, "But, Charlie, Lee has no right to tell you to go; I want you to
stay." He hesitated one second, then said in the most mournful of voices, "Yes, me know, me
feel vellee blad, but Lee, he tellee me go--he no likee mason-man." No amount of persuasion
could induce him to stay, and that evening after dinner he packed his bedding on his back and
went away--to the Crossing, I presume. Charlie called himself a mason, and has a book that
he made himself which he said was a "mason-man blook," but I learned yesterday that he is a
"high-binder," no mason at all, and for that reason the Chinamen in the garrison would not
permit him to remain here. They were afraid of him, yet he seemed so very trustworthy in every
way. But a highbinder in one's own house!

There has been another departure from the family--Bettie has been sold! Lieutenant Warren wanted
her to match a horse he had recently bought. The two make a beautiful little team, and Bettie
is already a great pet, and I am glad of that, of course, but I do not see the necessity of
Lieutenant Warren's giving her sugar right in front of our windows! His quarters are near ours.
He says that Bettie made no objections to the harness, but drove right off with her mate.

There was a distressing occurrence in the garrison yesterday that I cannot forget. At all army
posts the prisoners do the rough work, such as bringing the wood and water, keeping the yards
tidy, bringing the ice, and so on. Yesterday morning one of the general prisoners here escaped
from the sentry guarding him. The long-roll was beaten, and as this always means that something
is wrong and calls out all the troops, officers and men, I ran out on the porch to see what
was the matter, fearing there might be a fire some place. It seemed a long time before the
companies got in line, and then I noticed that instead of fire buckets they were carrying rifles.
Directly every company started off on double time and disappeared in between two sets of barracks
at one corner of the parade ground. Then everything was unusually quiet; not a human being
to be seen except the sentry at the guardhouse, who was walking post.

It was pleasant, so I sat down, still feeling curious about the trouble that was serious enough
to call out all the troops. It was not so very long before Lieutenant Todd, who was officer
of the day, came from the direction the companies had gone, pistol in hand, and in front of
him was a man with ball and chain. That means that his feet were fastened together by a large
chain, just long enough to permit him to take short steps, and to that short chain was riveted
a long one, at the end of which was a heavy iron ball hanging below his belt. When we see a
prisoner carrying a ball and chain we know that he is a deserter, or that he has done something
very bad, which will probably send him to the penitentiary, for these balls are never put on
a prisoner who has only a short time in the guardhouse.

The prisoner yesterday--who seemed to be a young man--walked slowly to the guardhouse, the
officer of the day following closely. Going up the steps and on in the room to a cot, he unfastened
the ball from his belt and let it thunder down on the floor, and then throwing himself down
on the cot, buried his face in the blankets, an awful picture of woe and despair. On the walk
by the door, and looking at him with contempt, stood a splendid specimen of manhood--erect,
broad-chested, with clear, honest eyes and a weather-beaten face--a typical soldier of the
United States Army, and such as he, the prisoner inside might have become in time. Our house
is separated from the guardhouse by a little park only, and I could plainly see the whole thing--the
strong man and the weakling.

In the meantime, bugles had called the men back to quarters, and very soon I learned all about
the wretched affair. The misguided young man had deserted once before, was found guilty by
a general court-martial, and sentenced to the penitentiary at Leavenworth for the regulation
time for such an offense, and to-morrow morning he was to have started for the prison. Now
he has to stand a second court-martial, and serve a double sentence for desertion!

He was so silly about it too. The prisoners were at the large ice house down by the river,
getting ice out for the daily delivery. There were sentinels over them, of course, but in some
way that man managed to sneak over the ice through the long building to an open door, through
which he dropped down to the ground, and then he ran. He was missed almost instantly and the
alarm given, but the companies were sent to the lowland along the river, where there are bushes,
for there seemed to be no other place where he could possibly secrete himself.

The officer of the day is responsible, in a way, for the prisoners, so of course Lieutenant
Todd went to the ice house to find out the cause of the trouble, and on his way back he accidentally
passed an old barrel-shaped water wagon. Not a sound was heard, but something told him to look
inside. He had to climb up on a wheel in order to get high enough to look through the little
square opening at the top, but he is a tall man and could just see in, and peering down he
saw the wretched prisoner huddled at one end, looking more like an animal than a human being.
He ordered him to come out, and marched him to the guardhouse.

It was a strange coincidence, but the officer of the day happened to have been promoted from
the ranks, had served his three years as an enlisted man, and then passed a stiff examination
for a commission. One could see by his walk that he had no sympathy for the mother's baby.
He knew from experience that a soldier's life is not hard unless the soldier himself makes
it so. The service and discipline develop all the good qualities of the man, give him an assurance
and manly courage he might never possess otherwise, and best of all, he learns to respect law
and order.

The Army is not a rough place, and neither are the men starved or abused, as many mothers seem
to think. Often the company commanders receive the most pitiful letters from mothers of enlisted
men, beseeching them to send their boys back to them, that they are being treated like dogs,
dying of starvation, and so on. As though these company commanders did not know all about those
boys and the life they had to live.

It is such a pity that these mothers cannot be made to realize that army discipline, regular
hours, and plain army food is just what those "boys" need to make men of them. Judging by several
letters I have read, sent to officers by mothers of soldiers, I am inclined to believe that
weak mothers in many cases are responsible for the desertion of their weak sons. They sap all
manhood from them by "coddling" as they grow up, and send them out in the world wholly unequal
to a vigorous life--a life without pie and cake at every meal. Well! I had no intention of
moralizing this way, but I have written only the plain truth.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY September, 1881.

THERE has been quite a little flutter of excitement in the garrison during the past week brought
about by a short visit from the Marquis of Lome and his suite. As governor general of Canada,
he had been inspecting his own military posts, and then came on down across the line to Shaw,
en route to Dillon, where he will take the cars for the East. Colonel Knight is in command,
so it fell upon him to see that Lord Lome was properly provided for, which he did by giving
up absolutely for his use his own elegantly furnished quarters. Lord Lome took possession at
once and quietly dined there that evening with one or two of his staff, and Colonel Knight
as his guest.

The members of the suite were entertained by different officers of the garrison, and Captain
Percival of the Second Life Guards was our guest. They were escorted across the line to this
post by a company of Canadian mounted police, and a brave appearance those redcoats made as
they rode on the parade ground and formed two lines through which the governor general and
his staff rode, with the booming of cannon. Colonel Knight went out to meet them, escorted
by our mounted infantry in command of Lieutenant Todd.

The horses of the mounted police were very small, and inferior in every way to the animals
one would expect the Canadian government to provide, and it did look very funny to see the
gorgeously dressed police with their jaunty, side-tilted caps riding such wretched little beasts!

Our officers were on the parade to receive the governor general, and the regimental band was
there also, playing all sorts of things. Presently, without stop, and as though it was the
continuation of a melody, the first notes of "God Save the Queen" were heard. Instantly the
head of every Englishman and Canadian was uncovered--quietly, and without ostentation or slightest
break in hand-shaking and talking. It was like a military movement by bugle call! Some of us
who were looking on through filmy curtains thought it a beautiful manifestation of loving loyalty.
They were at a military post of another nation, in the midst of being introduced to its officers,
yet not one failed to remember and to remind, that he was an Englishman ever!

Mrs. Gordon saved me the worry of preparing an elaborate dinner at this far-away place, by
inviting us and our guest to dine with her and her guests. I am inclined to think that this
may have been a shrewd move on the part of the dear friend, so she could have Hang to assist
her own cook at her dinner. It was a fine arrangement, at all events, and pleased me most of
all. I made the salad and arranged the table for her. Judging from what I saw and heard, Hang
was having a glorious time. He had evidently frightened the old colored cook into complete
idiocy, and was ordering her about in a way that only a Chinaman knows.

The dinner was long, but delicious and enjoyable in every way. Lord Bagot, the Rev. Dr. MacGregor,
Captain Chater, and others of the governor general's staff were there--sixteen of us in all.
Captain Percival sat at my right, of course, and the amount he ate was simply appalling! And
the appetites of Lord Bagot and the others were equally fine. Course after course disappeared
from their plates--not a scrap left on them--until one wondered how it was managed. Soon after
dinner everyone went to Colonel Knight's quarters, where Lord Lome was holding a little reception.
He is a charming man, very simple in his manner, and one could hardly believe that he is the
son-in-law of a great queen and heir to a splendid dukedom.

He had announced that he would start at ten o'clock the next morning, so I ordered breakfast
at nine. A mounted escort from the post was to go with him to Dillon in command of Faye. It
has always seemed so absurd and really unkind for Americans to put aside our own ways and customs
when entertaining foreigners, and bore them with wretched representations of things of their
own country, thereby preventing them from seeing life as it is here. So I decided to give our
English captain an out and out American breakfast--not long, or elaborate, but dainty and nicely
served. And I invited Miss Mills to meet him, to give it a little life.

Well, nine o'clock came, so did Miss Mills, so did half after nine come, and then, finally
ten o'clock, but Captain Percival did not come! I was becoming very cross--for half an hour
before I had sent Hang up to call him, knowing that he and Faye also, were obliged to be ready
to start at ten o'clock. I was worried, too, fearing that Faye would have to go without any
breakfast at all. Of course the nice little breakfast was ruined! Soon after ten, however,
our guest came down and apologized very nicely--said that the bed was so very delightful be
simply could not leave it. Right there I made a mental resolution to the effect that if ever
a big Englishman should come to my house to remain overnight, I would have just one hour of
delight taken from that bed!

To my great amusement, also pleasure. Captain Percival ate heartily of everything, and kept
on eating, and with such apparent relish I began to think that possibly it might be another
case of "delight," and finally to wonder if Hang had anything in reserve. Once he said, "What
excellent cooks you have here!" This made Miss Mills smile, for she knew that Hang had been
loaned out the evening before. Faye soon left us to attend to matters in connection with the
trip, but the three of us were having a very merry time--for Captain Percival was a most charming
man--when in the room came Captain Chater, his face as black as the proverbial thundercloud,
and after speaking to me, looked straight and reprovingly at Captain Percival and said, "You
are keeping his excellency waiting!" That was like a bomb to all, and in two seconds the English
captains had shaken hands and were gone.

The mounted police are still in the post, and I suspect that this is because their commander
is having such a pleasant time driving and dining with his hostess, who is one of our most
lovely and fascinating women. I received a note from Faye this morning from Helena. He says
that so far the trip has been delightful, and that in every way and by all he is being treated
as an honored guest. Lord Lome declined a large reception in Helena, because the United States
is in mourning for its murdered President. What an exquisite rebuke to some of our ignorant
Americans! Faye writes that Lord Lome and members of his staff are constantly speaking in great
praise of the officers' wives at Shaw, and have asked if the ladies throughout the Army are
as charming and cultured as those here.

Our young horses are really very handsome now, and their red coats are shining from good grooming
and feeding. They are large, and perfectly matched in size, color, and gait, as they should
be, since they are half brothers. I am learning to drive now, a single horse, and find it very
interesting--but not one half as delightful as riding--I miss a saddle horse dreadfully. Now
and then I ride George--my own horse--but he always reminds me that his proper place is in
the harness, by making his gait just as rough as possible.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, December, 1881.

YOU will be greatly surprised to hear that Faye has gone to Washington! His father is very
ill--so dangerously so that a thirty-days' leave was telegraphed Faye from Department Headquarters,
without his having applied for it so as to enable him to get to Admiral Rae without delay.
Some one in Washington must have asked for the leave. It takes so long for letters to reach
us from the East that one never knows what may be taking place there. Faye started on the next
stage to Helena and at Dillon will take the cars for Washington.

Faye went away the night before the entertainment, which made it impossible for me to be in
the pantomime "Villikens and Dinah," so little Miss Gordon took my place and acted remarkably
well, notwithstanding she had rehearsed only twice. The very stage that carried Faye from the
post, brought to us Mr. Hughes of Benton for a few days. But this turned out very nicely, for
Colonel and Mrs. Mills, who know him well, were delighted to have him go to them, and there
he is now. The next day I invited Miss Mills and Mr. Hughes to dine with me informally, and
while I was in the dining room attending to the few pieces of extra china and silver that would
be required for dinner (a Chinaman has no idea of the fitness of things), Volmer, our striker,
came in and said to me that he would like to take the horses and the single buggy out for an
hour or so, as he wanted to show them to a friend.

I saw at once that he and I were to have our usual skirmish. There is one, always, whenever
Faye is away any length of time. The man has a frightful temper, and a year ago shot and killed
a deserter. He was acquitted by military court, and later by civil court, both courts deciding
that the shooting was accidental. But the deserter was a catholic and Volmer is a quaker, so
the feeling in the company was so hostile toward him that for several nights he was put in
the guardhouse for protection. Then Faye took him as striker, and has befriended him in many
ways. But those colts he could not drive. So I told him that the horses could not go out during
the lieutenant's absence, unless I went with them. He became angry at once, and said that it
was the first team he had ever taken care of that he was not allowed to drive as often as he
pleased. A big story, of course, but I said to him quietly, "You heard what I said, Volmer,
and further discussion will be quite useless. You were never permitted to take the colts out
when Lieutenant Rae was here, and now that he is away, you certainly cannot do so." And I turned
back to my spoons and forks.

Volmer went out of the room, but I had an uncomfortable feeling that matters were not settled.
In a short time I became conscious of loud talking in the kitchen, and could distinctly hear
Volmer using most abusive language about Faye and me. That was outrageous and not to be tolerated
a second, and without stopping to reason that it would be better not to hear, and let the man
talk his anger off, out to the kitchen I went. I found Volmer perched upon one end of a large
wood box that stands close to a door that leads out to a shed. I said: "Volmer, I heard what
you have been saying, as you intended I should, and now I tell you to go out of this house
and stay out, until you can speak respectfully of Lieutenant Rae and of me." But he sat still
and looked sullen and stubborn. I said again, "Go out, and out; of the yard too." But he did
not move one inch.

By that time I was furious, and going to the door that was so close to the man he could have
struck me, I opened it wide, and pointing out with outstretched arm I said, "You go instantly!"
and instantly he went. Chinamen are awful cowards, and with the first word I said to the soldier,
Hang had shuffled to his own room, and there he had remained until he heard Volmer go out of
the house. Then he came back, and looking at me with an expression of the most solemn pity,
said, "He vellee blad man--he killee man--he killee you, meb-bee!" The poor little heathen
was evidently greatly disturbed, and so was I, too. Not because I was at all afraid of being
killed, but because of the two spirited young horses that still required most careful handling.
And Faye might be away several months! I knew that the commanding officer, also the quartermaster,
would look after them and do everything possible to assist me, but at the same time I knew
that there was not a man in the post who could take Volmer's place with the horses. He is a
splendid whip and perfect groom. I could not send them to Mr. Vaughn's to run, as they had
been blanketed for a long time, and the weather was cold.

Of course I cried a little, but I knew that I had done quite right, that it was better for
me to regulate my own affairs than to call upon the company commander to do so for me. I returned
to the dining room, but soon there was a gentle knock on the door, and opening it, I saw Volmer
standing in front of me, cap in hand, looking very meek and humble. Very respectfully he apologized,
and expressed his regret at having offended me. That was very pleasant, but knowing the man's
violent temper, and thinking of coming days, I proceeded to deliver a lecture to the effect
that there was not another enlisted man in the regiment who would use such language in our
house, or be so ungrateful for kindness that we had shown him. Above all, to make it unpleasant
for me when I was alone.

I was so nervous, and talking to a soldier that way was so very disagreeable, I might have
broken down and cried again--an awful thing to have done at that time--if I had not happened
to have seen Hang's head sticking out at one side of his door. He had run to his room again,
but could not resist keeping watch to see if Volmer was really intending to "killee" me. He
is afraid of the soldier, and consequently hates him. Soon after he came, Volmer, who is a
powerful man, tied him down to his bed with a picket rope, and such yells of fury and terror
were never heard, and when I ran out to see what on earth was the matter, the Chinaman's eyes
were green, and he was frothing at the mouth. For days after I was afraid that Hang would do
some mischief to the man.

It is the striker's duty always to attend to the fires throughout the house, and this Volmer
is doing very nicely. But when Faye went away he told Hang to take good care of me--so he,
also, fixes the fires, and at the same time shows his dislike for Volmer, who will bring the
big wood in and make the fires as they should be. Just as soon as he goes out, however, in
marches Hang, with one or two small pieces of wood on his silk sleeve, and then, with much
noise, he turns the wood in the stove upside down, and stirs things up generally, after which
he will put in the little sticks and let it all roar until I am quite as stirred up as the
fire. After he closes the dampers he will say to me in his most amiable squeak, "Me flixee
him--he vellee glood now." This is all very nice as long as the house does not burn.

Night before last Mrs. Mills invited me to a family dinner. Colonel Mills was away, but Mr.
Hughes was there, also Lieutenant Harvey to whom Miss Mills is engaged, and the three Mills
boys, making a nice little party. But I felt rather sad--Faye was still en route to Washington,
and going farther from home every hour, and it was impossible to tell when he would return,
Mrs. Mills seemed distraite, too, when I first got to the house, but she soon brightened up
and was as animated as ever. The dinner was perfect. Colonel Mills is quite an epicure, and
he and Mrs. Mills have a reputation for serving choice and dainty things on their table. We
returned to the little parlor after dinner, and were talking and laughing, when something went
bang! like the hard shutting of a door.

Mrs. Mills jumped up instantly and exclaimed, "I knew it--I knew it!" and rushed to the back
part of the house, the rest of us running after her. She went on through to the Chinaman's
room, and there, on his cot, lay the little man, his face even then the color of old ivory.
He had fired a small Derringer straight to his heart and was quite dead. I did not like to
look at the dying man, so I ran for the doctor and almost bumped against him at the gate as
he was passing. There was nothing that he could do, however.

Mrs. Mills told us that Sam had been an inveterate gambler--that he had won a great deal of
money from the soldiers, particularly one, who had that very day threatened to kill him, accusing
the Chinaman of having cheated. The soldier probably had no intention of doing anything of
the kind, but said it to frighten the timid heathen, just for revenge. Sam had eaten a little
dinner, and was eating ice-cream, evidently, when something or somebody made him go to his
room and shoot himself. The next morning the Chinamen in the garrison buried him--not in the
post cemetery, but just outside. Upon the grave they laid one or two suits of clothing, shoes--all
Chinese, of course--and a great quantity of food--much of it their own fruits. That was for
his spirit until it reached the Happy Land. The coyotes ate the food, but a Chinaman would
never believe that, so more food was taken out this morning.

They are such a queer people! Hang's breakfast usually consists of a glass of cold water with
two or three lumps of sugar dissolved in it and a piece of bread broken in it also. When it
is necessary for Hang to be up late and do much extra work, I always give him a can of salmon,
of which he seems very fond--or a chicken, and tell him to invite one or two friends to sit
with him. This smooths away all little frowns and keeps things pleasant. Volmer killed the
chicken once, and Hang brought it to me with eyes blazing--said it was poor--and "He ole-ee
hin," so I found that the only way to satisfy the suspicious man was to let him select his
own fowl. He always cooks it in the one way--boils it with Chinese fruits and herbs, and with
the head and feet on--and I must admit that the odor is appetizing. But I have never tasted
it, although Hang has never failed to save a nice piece for me. He was with Mrs. Pierce two
years, and it was some time before I could convince him that this house was regulated my way
and not hers. Major Pierce was promoted to another regiment and we miss them very much.

FORT SHAW, MONTANA TERRITORY, July, 1882.

THE garrison seems lonesome since the two companies have been out, and I am beginning to feel
that I am at home alone quite too much. Faye was in Washington two months, and almost immediately
after he got back he was ordered to command the paymaster's escort from Helena here, and now
he is off again for the summer! The camp is on Birch Creek not far from the Piegan Agency.
The agents become frightened every now and then, and ask for troops, more because they know
the Indians would be justified in giving trouble than because there is any.

An officer is sent from the post to inspect all the cattle and rations that are issued to them--yet
there is much cheating. Once it was discovered that a very inferior brand of flour was being
given the Indians--that sacks with the lettering and marks of the brand the government was
supposed to issue to them had been slipped over the sacks which really held the inferior flour,
and carefully tied. Just imagine the trouble some one had taken, but there had been a fat reward,
of course, and then, where had those extra sacks come from--where had the fine flour gone?

Some one could have explained it all. I must admit, however, that anyone who has seen an Indian
use flour would say that the most inferior grade would be good enough for them, to be mixed
in dirty old pans, with still dirtier hands. This lack of cleanliness and appreciation of things
by the Indians makes stealing from them very tempting.

The very night after the troops had gone out there was an excitement in the garrison, and,
as usual, I was mixed up in it, not through my own choosing, however. I had been at Mrs. Palmer's
playing whist during the evening, and about eleven o'clock two of the ladies came down to the
house with me. The night was the very darkest I ever saw, and of this we spoke as we came along
the walk. Almost all the lights were out in the officers' quarters, making the whole post seem
dismal, and as I came in the house and locked the door, I felt as if I could never remain here
until morning. Hang was in his room, of course but would be no protection whatever if anything
should happen.

Major and Mrs. Stokes have not yet returned from the East, so the adjoining house is unoccupied,
and on my right is Mrs. Norton, who is alone also, as Doctor Norton is in camp with the troops.
She had urged me to go to her house for the night, but I did not go, because of the little
card party. I ran upstairs as though something evil was at my heels and bolted my door, but
did not fasten the dormer windows that run out on the roof in front. Before retiring, I put
a small, lighted lantern in a closet and left the door open just a little, thinking that the
streak of light would be cheering and the lantern give me a light quickly if I should need one.

Our breakfast had been very early that morning, on account of the troops marching, and I was
tired and fell asleep immediately, I think. After a while I was conscious of hearing some one
walking about in the room corresponding to mine in the next house, but I dozed on, thinking
to myself that there was no occasion for feeling nervous, as the people next door were still
up. But suddenly I remembered that the house was closed, and just then I distinctly heard some
one go down the stairs. I kept very still and listened, but heard nothing more and soon went
to sleep again, but again I was awakened--this time by queer noises--like some one walking
on a roof. There were voices, too, as if some one was mumbling to himself.

I got the revolver and ran to the middle of the room, where I stood ready to shoot or run--it
would probably have been run--in any direction. I finally got courage to look through a side
window, feeling quite sure that Mrs. Norton was out with her Chinaman, looking after some choice
little chickens left in her care by the doctor. But not one light was to be seen in any place,
and the inky blackness was awful to look upon, so I turned away, and just as I did so, something
cracked and rattled down over the shingles and then fell to the ground. But which roof those
sounds came from was impossible to tell. With "goose flesh" on my arms, and each hair on my
head trying to stand up, I went back to the middle of the room, and there I stood, every nerve
quivering.

I had been standing there hours--or possibly it was only two short minutes--when there was
one loud, piercing shriek, that made me almost scream, too. But after it was perfect silence,
so I said to myself that probably it had been a cat--that I was nervous and silly. But there
came another shriek, another, and still another, so expressive of terror that the blood almost
froze in my veins. With teeth chattering and limbs shaking so I could hardly step, I went to
a front window, and raising it I screamed, "Corporal of the guard!"

I saw the sentinel at the guardhouse stop, as though listening, in front of a window where
there was a light, and seeing one of the guard gave strength to my voice, and I called again.
That time the sentry took it up, and yelled, "Corporal of the guard, No. 1!" Instantly lanterns
were seen coming in our direction--ever so many of the guard came, and to our gate as they
saw me at a window. But I sent them on to the next house where they found poor Mrs. Norton
in a white heap on the grass, quite unconscious.

The officer of the day was still up and came running to see what the commotion was about--and
several other officers came. Colonel Gregory, a punctilious gentleman of the old school--who
is in command just now--appeared in a striking costume, consisting of a skimpy evening gown
of white, a dark military blouse over that, and a pair of military riding boots, and he carried
an unsheathed saber. He is very tall and thin and his hair is very white, and I laugh now when
I think of how funny he looked. But no one thought of laughing at that time. Mrs. Norton was
carried in, and her house searched throughout. No one was found, but burned matches were on
the floor of one or two rooms, which gave evidence that some one had been there.

In the yard back of the house a pair of heavy overshoes, also government socks, were found,
so it was decided that the man had climbed up on the roof and entered the house through a dormer
window that had not been fastened. No one would look for the piece of shingle that night, but
in the morning I found it on the ground close to the house.

All the time the search was being made I had been in the window. Colonel Mills insisted that
I should go to his house for the remainder of the night, but suggested that I put some clothes
on first! It occurred to me then, for the first time, that my own costume was rather striking--not
quite the proper thing for a balcony scene. Everyone was more than kind, but for a long time
after Miss Mills and I had gone to her room my teeth chattered and big tears rolled down my
face. Mrs. Norton declares that I was more frightened than she was, and I say, "Yes, probably,
but you did not stop to listen to your own horrible screams, and then, after making us believe
that you were being murdered, you quietly dropped into oblivion and forgot the whole thing."

Just as the entire garrison had become quiet once more--bang! went a gun, and then again we
heard people running about to see what was the matter, and if the burglar had been caught.
But it proved to have been the accidental going off of a rifle at the guardhouse. The instant
that Colonel Gregory ascertained that a soldier had really been in Mrs. Norton's house, check
roll-call was ordered--that is, the officer of the day went to the different barracks and ordered
the first sergeants to get the men up and call the roll at once, without warning or preparation.
In that way it was ascertained if the men were on their cots or out of quarters. But that night
every man was "present or accounted for." At the hospital, roll-call was not necessary, but
they found an attendant playing possum! A lantern held close to his face did not waken him,
although it made his eyelids twitch, and they found that his heart was beating at a furious
rate. His clothes had been thrown down on the floor, but socks were not to be found with them.

So he is the man suspected.. He will get his discharge in three days, and it is thought that
he was after a suit of citizen clothes of the doctor's. Not so very long ago he was their striker.
No one in the garrison has ever heard of an enlisted man troubling the quarters of an officer,
and it is something that rarely occurs. I spend every night with Mrs. Norton now, who seems
to have great confidence in my ability to protect her, as I can use a revolver so well. She
calmly sleeps on, while I remain awake listening for footsteps. The fact of my having been
at a military post when it was attacked by Indians--that a man was murdered directly under
my window, when I heard every shot, every moan--and my having had two unpleasant experiences
with horse thieves, has not been conducive to normal nerves after dark.

During all the commotion at Mrs. Norton's the night the man got in her house, her Chinaman
did not appear. One of the officers went to his room in search of the burglar and found him--the
Chinaman--sitting up in his bed, almost white from fear. He confessed to having heard some
one in the kitchen, and when asked why he did not go out to see who it was, indignantly replied,
"What for?--he go way, what for I see him?"

I feel completely upset without a good saddle horse. George is developing quite a little speed
in single harness, but I do not care for driving--feel too much as though I was part of the
little buggy instead of the horse. Major and Mrs. Stokes are expected soon from the East, and
I shall be so glad to have my old neighbors back.

CAMP ON BIRCH CREEK, NEAR PIEGAN AGENCY, MONTANA TERRITORY, September, 1882.

BY this time you must have become accustomed to getting letters from all sorts of out-of-the-way
places, therefore I will not weary you with long explanations, but simply say that Major Stokes
and Faye sent for Mrs. Stokes and me to come to camp, thinking to give us a pleasant little
outing. We came over with the paymaster and his escort. Major Carpenter seemed delighted to
have us with him, and naturally Mrs. Stokes and I were in a humor to enjoy everything. We brought
a nice little luncheon with us for everybody--that is, everyone in the ambulance. The escort
of enlisted men were in a wagon back of us, but the officer in charge was with us.

The Indians have quieted down, and several of the officers have gone on leave, so with the
two companies now here there are only Major Stokes, who is in command, Faye, Lieutenant Todd,
and Doctor Norton. Mrs. Stokes has seen much of camp life, and enjoys it now and then as much
as I do. The importance of our husbands as hosts--their many efforts to make us comfortable
and entertain us--is amusing, yet very lovely. They give us no rest whatever, but as soon as
we return from one little excursion another is immediately proposed. There is a little spring
wagon in camp with two seats, and there are two fine mules to pull it, and with this really
comfortable turn-out we drive about the country. Major Stokes is military inspector of supplies
at this agency, and every Piegan knows him, so when we meet Indians, as we do often, there
is always a powwow.

Three days ago we packed the little wagon with wraps and other things, and Major and Mrs. Stokes,
Faye, and I started for a two days' outing at a little lake that is nestled far up on the side
of a mountain. It is about ten miles from here. There is only a wagon trail leading to it,
and as you go on up and up, and see nothing but rocks and trees, it would never occur to you
that the steep slope of the mountain could be broken, that a lake of good size could be hidden
on its side. You do not get a glimpse of it once, until you drive between the bushes and boulders
that border its banks, and then it is all before you in amazing beauty. The reflections are
wonderful, the high lights showing with exquisite sharpness against the dark green and purple
depths of the clear, spring water.

The lake is fearfully deep--the Indians insist that in places it is bottomless--and it is teeming
with trout, the most delicious mountain trout that can be caught any place, and which come
up so cold one can easily fancy there is an iceberg somewhere down below. Some of these fish
are fourteen or more inches long.

It was rather late in the afternoon when we reached the lake, so we hurriedly got ourselves
ready for fishing, for we were thinking of a trout dinner. Four enlisted men had followed us
with a wagon, in which were our tents, bedding, and boxes of provisions, and these men busied
themselves at once by putting up the little tents and making preparations for dinner, and we
were anxious to get enough fish for their dinner as well as our own. At a little landing we
found two row-boats, and getting in these we were soon out on the lake.

If one goes to Fish Lake just for sport, and can be contented with taking in two or three fish
during an all day's hard work, flies should be used always, but if one gets up there when the
shadows are long and one's dinner is depending upon the fish caught, one might as well begin
at once with grasshoppers--at least, that is what I did. I carried a box of fine yellow grasshoppers
up with me, and I cast one over before the boat had fairly settled in position. It was seized
the instant it had touched the water, and down, down went the trout, its white sides glistening
through the clear water. For some reason still unaccountable I let it go, and yard after yard
of line was reeled out. Perhaps, after all, it was fascination that kept me from stopping the
plunge of the fish, that never stopped until the entire line was let out. That brought me to
my senses, and I reeled the fish up and got a fine trout, but I also got at the same time an
uncontrollable longing for land. To be in a leaky, shaky old boat over a watery, bottomless
pit, as the one that trout had been down in, was more than I could calmly endure, so with undisguised
disgust Faye rowed me back to the landing, where I caught quite as many fish as anyone out
in the boats.

One of the enlisted men prepared dinner for us, and fried the trout in olive oil, the most
perfect way of cooking mountain trout in camp. They were delicious--so fresh from the icy water
that none of their delicate flavor had been lost, and were crisp and hot. We had cups of steaming
coffee and all sorts of nice things from the boxes we had brought from the post. A flat boulder
made a grand table for us, and of course each one had his little camp stool to sit upon. Altogether
the dinner was a success, the best part of it being, perhaps, the exhilarating mountain air
that gave us such fine appetites, and a keen appreciation of everything ludicrous.

While we were fishing, our tents had been arranged for us in real soldier fashion. Great bunches
of long grass had been piled up on each side underneath the little mattresses, which raised
the beds from the ground and made them soft and springy. Those "A" tents are very small and
low, and it is impossible to stand up in one except in the center under the ridgepole, for
the canvas is stretched from the ridgepole to the ground, so the only walls are back and front,
where there is an opening. I had never been in one before and was rather appalled at its limitations,
and neither had I ever slept on the ground before, but I had gone prepared for a rough outing.
Besides, I knew that everything possible had been done to make Mrs. Stokes and me comfortable.
The air was chilly up on the mountain, but we had any number of heavy blankets that kept us warm.

The night was glorious with brilliant moonlight, and the shadows of the pine trees on the white
canvas were black and wonderfully clear cut, as the wind swayed the branches back and forth.
The sounds of the wind were dismal, soughing and moaning as all mountain winds do, and made
me think of the Bogy-man and other things. I found myself wondering if anything could crawl
under the tent at my side. I wondered if snakes could have been brought in with the grass.
I imagined that I heard things moving about, but all the time I was watching those exquisite
shadows of the pine needles in a dreamy sort of way.

Then all at once I saw the shadow of one, then three, things as they ran up the canvas and
darted this way and that like crazy things, and which could not possibly have grown on a pine
tree. And almost at the same instant, something pulled my hair! With a scream and scramble
I was soon out of that tent, but of course when I moved all those things had moved, too, and
wholly disappeared. So I was called foolish to be afraid in a tent after the weeks and months
I had lived in camp. But just then Mrs. Stokes ran from her tent, Major Stokes slowly following,
and then it came out that there had been trouble over there also, and that I was not the only
one in disgrace. Mrs. Stokes had seen queer shadows on her canvas, and coming to me, said,
"Will says those things are squirrels!" That was too much, and I replied with indignation,
"They are not squirrels at all; they are too small and their tails are not bushy."

Well, there was a time! We refused absolutely, positively, to go back to our tents until we
knew all about those darting shadows. We saw that those two disagreeable men had an understanding
with each other and were much inclined to laugh. It was cold and our wrappers not very warm,
but Mrs. Stokes and I finally sat down upon some camp stools to await events. Then Faye, who
can never resist an opportunity to tease, said to me, "You had better take care, mice might
run up that stool!" So the cat was out! I have never been afraid of mice, and have always considered
it very silly in women to make such a fuss over them. But those field mice were different;
they seemed inclined to take the very hair from your head. Of course we could not sit up all
night, and after a time had to return to our tents. I wrapped my head up securely, so my hair
could not be carried off without my knowing something about it. Ever so many times during the
night I heard talking and smothered laughter, and concluded that the soldiers also were having
small visitors with four swift little legs.

We had more delicious trout for our breakfast; that time fried with tiny strips of breakfast
bacon. The men had been out on the lake very early, and had caught several dozen beautiful
fish. The dinner the evening before had been much like an ordinary picnic, but the early breakfast
up on the side of a mountain, with big boulders all around, was something to remember. One
can never imagine the deliciousness of the air at sunrise up on the Rocky Mountains, It has
to be breathed to be appreciated.

Everyone fished during the morning and many fish were caught, every one of which were carefully
packed in wet grass and brought to Birch Creek, to the unfortunates who had not been on that
most delightful trip to Fish Lake. After luncheon we came down from the mountain and drove
to the Piegan Agency. The heavy wagon came directly to camp, of course. There is nothing remarkable
to be seen at the agency--just a number of ordinary buildings, a few huts, and Indians standing
around the door of a store that resembles a post trader's. Every Indian had on a blanket, although
Major Stokes said there were several among them who had been to the Carlisle School.

Along the road before we reached the agency, and for some distance after we had left it, we
passed a number of little one-room log huts occupied by Indians, often with two squaws and
large families of children; and at some of these we saw wretched attempts at gardening. Those
Indians are provided with plows, spades, and all sorts of implements necessary for the making
of proper gardens, and they are given grain and seeds to plant, but seldom are any of these
things made use of. An Indian scorns work of any kind--that is only for squaws. The squaws
will scratch up a bit of ground with sticks, put a little seed in, and then leave it for the
sun and rain to do with as it sees fit. No more attention will be paid to it, and half the
time the seed is not covered.

One old chief raised some wheat one year--I presume his squaws did all the work--and he gathered
several sackfuls, which was made into flour at the agency mill. The chief was very proud. But
when the next quarterly issue came around, his ration of flour was lessened just the amount
his wheat had made, which decided all future farming for him! Why should he, a chief, trouble
himself about learning to farm and then gain nothing in the end! There is a fine threshing
machine at the agency, but the Indians will have nothing whatever to do with it. They cannot
understand its workings and call it the "Devil Machine."

As we were nearing the Indian village across the creek from us, we came to a most revolting
spectacle. Two or three Indians had just killed an ox, and were slashing and cutting off pieces
of the almost quivering flesh, in a way that left little pools of blood in places on the side.
There were two squaws with them, squatted on the ground by the dead animal, and those hideous,
fiendish creatures were scooping up the warm blood with their hands and greedily drinking it!
Can one imagine anything more horrible? We stopped only a second, but the scene was too repulsive
to be forgotten. It makes me shiver even now when I think of the flashing of those big knives
and of how each one of the savages seemed to be reveling in the smell and taste of blood! I
feel that they could have slashed and cut into one of us with the same relish. It was much
like seeing a murder committed.

Major Stokes told us last evening that when he returned from the East a few weeks ago, he discovered
that one of a pair of beautiful pistols that had been presented to him had been stolen, that
some one had gone upstairs and taken it out of the case that was in a closet corresponding
to mine, so that accounts for the footsteps I heard in that house the night the man entered
Mrs. Norton's house. But how did the man know just where to get a pistol? The hospital attendant
who was suspected that night got his discharge a few days later. He stayed around the garrison
so long that finally Colonel Gregory ordered him to leave the reservation, and just before
coming from the post we heard that he had shot a man and was in jail. A very good place for
him, I think.

