Standard Edition

St. Ronan's Well

By

Sir Walter Scott, Bart.

With Introductory Essay and Notes

by Andrew Lang

Illustrated

Dana Estes and Company Publishers ... Boston

The Standard Edition

of the Novels and Poems of Sir Walter Scott. Limited to one thousand numbered and registered
sets, of which this is

No. 835

Copyright, 1894. BY ESTES AND LAURIAT

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

ST. RONAN'S WELL

VOLUME I.

                                                                    PAGE
Meg Dods (p. 13)                                           Frontispiece
The Meeting in the Wood                                              137
Preparing for the Duel                                               198

       *       *       *       *       *

VOLUME II.

Reappearance of Tyrrel                                               127 Clara entering Tyrrel's
Room                                         307

EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION

TO

ST. RONAN'S WELL.

"'St. Ronan's Well' is not so much my favourite as certain of its predecessors," Lady Louisa
Stuart wrote to Scott on March 26, 1824. "Yet still I see the author's hand in it, et c'est
tout dire. Meg Dods, the meeting" (vol. i. chap. ix.), "and the last scene between Clara and
her brother, are marked with the true stamp, not to be matched or mistaken. Is the Siege of
Ptolemais really on the anvil?" she goes on, speaking of the projected Crusading Tales, and
obviously anxious to part company with "St. Ronan's Well." All judgments have not agreed with
Lady Louisa's. There is a literary legend or fable according to which a number of distinguished
men, all admirers of Scott, wrote down separately the name of their favourite Waverley novel,
and all, when the papers were compared, had written "St. Ronan's." Sydney Smith, writing to
Constable on Dec. 28, 1823, described the new story as "far the best that has appeared for
some time. Every now and then there is some mistaken or overcharged humour--but much excellent
delineation of character, the story very well told, and the whole very interesting. Lady Binks,
the old landlady, and Touchwood are all very good. Mrs. Blower particularly so. So are MacTurk
and Lady Penelope. I wish he would give his people better names; Sir Bingo Binks is quite ridiculous....
The curtain should have dropped on finding Clara's glove. Some of the serious scenes with Clara
and her brother are very fine: the knife scene masterly. In her light and gay moments Clara
is very vulgar; but Sir Walter always fails in well-bred men and women, and yet who has seen
more of both? and who, in the ordinary intercourse of society, is better bred? Upon the whole,
I call this a very successful exhibition."

We have seldom found Sydney Smith giving higher praise, and nobody can deny the justice of
the censure with which it is qualified. Scott himself explains, in his Introduction, how, in
his quest of novelty, he invaded modern life, and the domain of Miss Austen. Unhappily he proved
by example the truth of his own opinion that he could do "the big bow-wow strain" very well,
but that it was not his celebrare domestica facta. Unlike George Sand, Sir Walter had humour
abundantly, but, as the French writer said of herself, he was wholly destitute of esprit.

