INTRODUCTION.

The Phaedrus is closely connected with the Symposium, and may be regarded either as introducing
or following it. Whether the subject of the Dialogue is love or rhetoric, or the union of the
two, or the relation of philosophy to love and to art in general, and to the human soul, will
be hereafter considered. And perhaps we may arrive at some conclusion such as the following--that
the dialogue is not strictly confined to a single subject, but passes from one to another with
the natural freedom of conversation.

Phaedrus has been spending the morning with Lysias, the celebrated rhetorician, and is going
to refresh himself by taking a walk outside the wall, when he is met by Socrates, who professes
that he will not leave him until he has delivered up the speech with which Lysias has regaled
him, and which he is carrying about in his mind, or more probably in a book hidden under his
cloak, and is intending to study as he walks. The imputation is not denied, and the two agree
to direct their steps out of the public way along the stream of the Ilissus towards a plane-tree
which is seen in the distance. There, lying down amidst pleasant sounds and scents, they will
read the speech of Lysias. The country is a novelty to Socrates, who never goes out of the
town; and hence he is full of admiration for the beauties of nature, which he seems to be drinking
in for the first time.

As they are on their way, Phaedrus asks the opinion of Socrates respecting the local tradition
of Boreas and Oreithyia. Socrates, after a satirical allusion to the 'rationalizers' of his
day, replies that he has no time for these 'nice' interpretations of mythology, and he pities
anyone who has. When you once begin there is no end of them, and they spring from an uncritical
philosophy after all. 'The proper study of mankind is man;' and he is a far more complex and
wonderful being than the serpent Typho. Socrates as yet does not know himself; and why should
he care to know about unearthly monsters? Engaged in such conversation, they arrive at the
plane-tree; when they have found a convenient resting-place, Phaedrus pulls out the speech
and reads:--

The speech consists of a foolish paradox which is to the effect that the non-lover ought to
be accepted rather than the lover--because he is more rational, more agreeable, more enduring,
less suspicious, less hurtful, less boastful, less engrossing, and because there are more of
them, and for a great many other reasons which are equally unmeaning. Phaedrus is captivated
with the beauty of the periods, and wants to make Socrates say that nothing was or ever could
be written better. Socrates does not think much of the matter, but then he has only attended
to the form, and in that he has detected several repetitions and other marks of haste. He cannot
agree with Phaedrus in the extreme value which he sets upon this performance, because he is
afraid of doing injustice to Anacreon and Sappho and other great writers, and is almost inclined
to think that he himself, or rather some power residing within him, could make a speech better
than that of Lysias on the same theme, and also different from his, if he may be allowed the
use of a few commonplaces which all speakers must equally employ.

Phaedrus is delighted at the prospect of having another speech, and promises that he will set
up a golden statue of Socrates at Delphi, if he keeps his word. 

Often the priest had thought that his nephew might be a good husband to any its two eyes, but as
it was a good game, the priest stopped his thought and purpose, and never did anything to be done.

Paco,
and Ines Beatriz they loved as brothers.

Paco, who was six years older than most of them, and ten more than the second, which at first
seems enormous age difference, they had a baby that he described as paternal. They were daughters
of the illustrious gentleman people, even though they had come to such poverty, and he, a plebeian,
and archiplebeyo all four sides, and under the blessings of fortune that his uncle's eyes, how
had he dared not even imagine that he could marry either?

So, Don Braulio married Dona Beatriz, and soon, as we have said, died priest, who was excellent
subject.

Ines, as was natural, he went to live with his sister and brother,
followed in Seville, and then followed this lively capital of Spain.

Since leaving the place left Paco entrusted to the administration of assets it had, with the assurance
that no one had to manage them better. Paco, in effect, responded to that trust. So in the time
our story begins, when appear in the Buen Retiro our two heroines, had between them just over
8,000 real year, which together with the 12,000 counted evil Don
Braulio, totaling an annual taleguita very run and long-waisted.

Even if life were removed, as everything is expensive, and well treated,
and dressed with a certain class for class, income and salary are
completely consumed, and thanks if you were not sometimes in distress.

To get out of them, living lavishly and rise to higher position in
the social hierarchy are two paths, lit by hope, to the acute consideration
of Dona Beatriz, which brooded a lot about these things since he left
the place, already married.

Doña Beatriz was the highest form of intelligence and knowledge of her husband. Attributed their
lack of success in the world to neglect, contempt or disdain that Don Braulio was all practical,
a certain lack of stimulus that could see into his soul, and was inclined to believe that
if she encouraged and spurred the soul of her husband and away from
theoretical vague dreams and distractions that led to nothing, it
was still possible to see him as Minister of Finance, or at least
Director of Monopolies.

The other point, it was as the foundation or cornerstone on which
stood Beatriz the castle of his ambitious hopes, was the beauty, the
elegance and distinction of his sister Ines.

Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and who was indebted to have
left the place where he drowned, and spaced by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the
greatness to serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita, single and
free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce complete
with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich mining of
all property, encumbrances and prosperity.

Import declaration in honor of Dona Beatriz, who draw on their imaginations to the ascending process
of each other plan of happiness, now using Don Braulio, Inesita prays never occurred to him put
in the composition of the least touch his picture sinful. Nothing thief comes. Doña Beatriz I wanted
to play fair.

Don Braulio had to be first-rate character without stain nails, and Ines was to be a countess,
marquise, and who knows if Duchess, without the least levity and all ecclesiastical and civil requirements.

Beatriz's pride, his aristocratic decorum, which was, though born
poor diapers, and their Christian beliefs, alive and fervent as educated
by a priest ejemplarísima of virtue, repelled any remedy that might
tarnish, but his desire to rise and raise your family will suggest,
in his view, decent and honest means by which to achieve wealth, honors
and awards, with ease and without dishonor or guilt.

Doña Beatriz fully discovered their plans and hopes and Inesita Don Braulio. He feared to frighten
and scare saliesen contradiction and opposition. Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of
one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive the term
to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and
when it was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose
and show the term, if not see him.

With Inesita mainly it was about poetry and inexperienced, Beatriz came to top caution and dissimulation.

From
the night they had gone to the Buen Retiro had spoken several times
of the gentle knight that had followed, but never discover all his
thinking.

Doña Beatriz, by the phrases he had heard the Earl of Alhedín and his companions, by the car he
had seen and some news that after he had collected with skill, know the Count was single, very
rich, very noble, no father, and a mother who had no will but yours. Now, what is impossible
that the Count would fall in love Inesita resolutely and marry her?

More mixed marriages have been and see every day.

With a little luck and with rare discretion of Dona Beatriz was deemed gifted, well Inesita could
marry the Count. Ines was, as mentioned above, an adorable creature. Until his indifference
to its spirit, slept all ambition, could contribute to winning.

Nothing will damage both the other girls in this to catch a good marriage, as the naive and ill-disguised
effort to catch him.

Thus, Beatriz from sleeping with his sister and did not seek to awaken
their ambition.

That indifferent and sublime dream was a powerful weapon which should not be detached. She,
tell until a suitable opportunity came, would lead to her sister without removing the poetic
sleepwalking.

Sleepwalking and everything mattered, however, that Ines should move itself, and for this Dona
Beatriz had already played, and even thought to touch, any other
spring of your soul less the ambition and greed.

With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at the Ministry of Finance who their
unknown, they talked alone in his poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in
the Secretariat.

- I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in front of his sister -.
I rave no, nothing is special. I want it to my husband and my duty to my do lie in blissful
life, and so I have nothing to find out. I can live enclosed four walls without despair. What
can I do, what I can suck me off here? But you, single, young and pretty, is a marvel to resign yourself
to this retreat and isolation in which we live. Braulio is very good, it would be a saint if
he were a better Christian; but is a ferret and has its quirks. He does not want us to return alone
to the Gardens. And that ignoring the persecution of that Condesito. I want to take you to the
Gardens to see if you distracted, because you seem sad, but what
will we do?

We can not go alone Braulio licensed, let alone secretly. God forbid that I oppose what he commands.
It would also be easy to know it all. There is, therefore, more resources to wait while Braulio
willing and able to join us. Just finished his extraordinary work and not have to go at night the
Ministry. Meanwhile not go tomorrow, which is Sunday.

Tomorrow we will lead. I'll get it. Do you accommodate?

- I have no impatience or eagerness to have fun - said Ines -. I can well understand Braulio
does not want to go alone. We as girls both! ... You seem almost more younger than me. We
are exposed to a thousand frights ... to persecute us ... to disrespect
us ... as the rake the other night.

- You exaggerate ... Count Alhedín
not disrespected us.

The poor followed us like a fool ... had its temptations to speak, but after he dared not, and
did well. It would have been tomfoolery unforgivable in person so many bells and run. The truth
is that too excited to show off so disgusted, scornful and invulnerable. My daughter, you gave sight.

-
Sister - Ines replied with great simplicity and naturalness - do not try to flatter me esteem.
I do not believe. In any case it was you, not I, who Condesito arrow, although jokes leaving
us, which we believe is that neither you nor I arrows.

Excited their curiosity so as no one knows us. As a slacker, he wanted to follow us to pass
the time. Such Once the cause of which we follow for us was not flattering, but offensive,
perhaps, the see us alone and so young, he was of us an idea ...

- You can ... Perhaps we misjudged the top, but do not hesitate, as risky trial and the passenger
was unfavorable. It does not follow who was not expected, as we continued the count. Those
hesitations, those utterly, that shy in person so carefree and bold,
born of respect, not contempt.

In addition, a man of the world, understood as he is, no could fall but for a brief moment
in such an absurd hallucination.

Look in that mirror - and Beatriz noted one that was hung in front,
decorating the room - and it would be necessary be stupid not to understand
who you are, to think badly of you to see that face.

Doña Beatriz gave it to his sister kisses a dozen of sound, rising from his seat and embracing.

- How good and how crazy you are! - Ines said.

Then he added:

- Come, I wish indeed that Count followed us with enthusiasm, but
enthusiasm why what had to be me, not you, who inspired him?

Do you think the Count guessed that you're married?

- Undoubtedly.

I could not believe otherwise, seeing me alone with you and keep
us women honored.

- But I have heard that the libertines serve more
to married women and unmarried women - continued Inesita with the
terrible frankness of his childlike innocence.

- It's not a rule.

I, however, to concede that it is. I still affirm that there is no rule without exception
and in this case, the Count has pursued the spinster.

- And why do you affirm?

- Because I've seen.

- I saw nothing, for
not looking.

- Mirases not approve.

That modesty, that indifference you, stung the Count. If you reach look at him you would have
followed, but more daring, with less effort.

- Then you, you looked,
as you observed so much, how did you not be mean concept of you?

-
For married women, when we are not really dumb, we use many styles
to look at, and I I looked as it should.

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there were several styles to watch.

Doña
Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began to
think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed
desirable and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit.

It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest mysteries of this
rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -.

Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all, because the people I've
spent my life sewing, playing with dolls, taking care our old tutor
and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio was the Christ Child
in the arms, while you were reading, studies and conversations, still
reaches me that look in different ways: for example, with affection
and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand is why the wives
know that, and do not know why single women.

- For single women should
not know, because if they do, they should pretend to ignore it, and
because they lose a lot if you look through art, not to be so wonderful
to look at art that even the most cunning you note.

- And tell me,
sister, do not it could be that, without reflection, and by virtue
of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection, looked
silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most skilled?

-
Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything. I, however, to tell you the three major
pitfalls they may encounter if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love. Well,
for this step are the rules and art. Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who
you love and yet still loves you.

- A look at like that neighbor it.

- There's your mistake, Ines.
 There
is an old Egyptian tale of Theuth, the inventor of writing, showing his invention to the god
Thamus, who told him that he would only spoil men's memories and take away their understandings.
From this tale, of which young Athens will probably make fun, may be gathered the lesson that
writing is inferior to speech. For it is like a picture, which can give no answer to a question,
and has only a deceitful likeness of a living creature. It has no power of adaptation, but
uses the same words for all. It is not a legitimate son of knowledge, but a bastard, and when
an attack is made upon this bastard neither parent nor anyone else is there to defend it. The
husbandman will not seriously incline to sow his seed in such a hot-bed or garden of Adonis;
he will rather sow in the natural soil of the human soul which has depth of earth; and he will
anticipate the inner growth of the mind, by writing only, if at all, as a remedy against old
age. The natural process will be far nobler, and will bring forth fruit in the minds of others
as well as in his own.

The conclusion of the whole matter is just this,--that until a man knows the truth, and the
manner of adapting the truth to the natures of other men, he cannot be a good orator; also,
that the living is better than the written word, and that the principles of justice and truth
when delivered by word of mouth are the legitimate offspring of a man's own bosom, and their
lawful descendants take up their abode in others. Such an orator as he is who is possessed
of them, you and I would fain become. And to all composers in the world, poets, orators, legislators,
we hereby announce that if their compositions are based upon these principles, then they are
not only poets, orators, legislators, but philosophers. All others are mere flatterers and
putters together of words. This is the message which Phaedrus undertakes to carry to Lysias
from the local deities, and Socrates himself will carry a similar message to his favourite
Isocrates, whose future distinction as a great rhetorician he prophesies. The heat of the day
has passed, and after offering up a prayer to Pan and the nymphs, Socrates and Phaedrus depart.

There are two principal controversies which have been raised about the Phaedrus; the first
relates to the subject, the second to the date of the Dialogue.

There seems to be a notion that the work of a great artist like Plato cannot fail in unity,
and that the unity of a dialogue requires a single subject. But the conception of unity really
applies in very different degrees and ways to different kinds of art; to a statue, for example,
far more than to any kind of literary composition, and to some species of literature far more
than to others. Nor does the dialogue appear to be a style of composition in which the requirement
of unity is most stringent; nor should the idea of unity derived from one sort of art be hastily
transferred to another. The double titles of several of the Platonic Dialogues are a further
proof that the severer rule was not observed by Plato. The Republic is divided between the
search after justice and the construction of the ideal state; the Parmenides between the criticism
of the Platonic ideas and of the Eleatic one or being; the Gorgias between the art of speaking
and the nature of the good; the Sophist between the detection of the Sophist and the correlation
of ideas. The Theaetetus, the Politicus, and the Philebus have also digressions which are but
remotely connected with the main subject.

Thus the comparison of Plato's other writings, as well as the reason of the thing, lead us
to the conclusion that we must not expect to find one idea pervading a whole work, but one,
two, or more, as the invention of the writer may suggest, or his fancy wander. If each dialogue
were confined to the development of a single idea, this would appear on the face of the dialogue,
nor could any controversy be raised as to whether the Phaedrus treated of love or rhetoric.
But the truth is that Plato subjects himself to no rule of this sort. Like every great artist
he gives unity of form to the different and apparently distracting topics which he brings together.
He works freely and is not to be supposed to have arranged every part of the dialogue before
he begins to write. He fastens or weaves together the frame of his discourse loosely and imperfectly,
and which is the warp and which is the woof cannot always be determined.

The subjects of the Phaedrus (exclusive of the short introductory passage about mythology which
is suggested by the local tradition) are first the false or conventional art of rhetoric; secondly,
love or the inspiration of beauty and knowledge, which is described as madness; thirdly, dialectic
or the art of composition and division; fourthly, the true rhetoric, which is based upon dialectic,
and is neither the art of persuasion nor knowledge of the truth alone, but the art of persuasion
founded on knowledge of truth and knowledge of character; fifthly, the superiority of the spoken
over the written word. The continuous thread which appears and reappears throughout is rhetoric;
this is the ground into which the rest of the Dialogue is worked, in parts embroidered with
fine words which are not in Socrates' manner, as he says, 'in order to please Phaedrus.' The
speech of Lysias which has thrown Phaedrus into an ecstacy is adduced as an example of the
false rhetoric; the first speech of Socrates, though an improvement, partakes of the same character;
his second speech, which is full of that higher element said to have been learned of Anaxagoras
by Pericles, and which in the midst of poetry does not forget order, is an illustration of
the higher or true rhetoric. This higher rhetoric is based upon dialectic, and dialectic is
a sort of inspiration akin to love (compare Symp.); in these two aspects of philosophy the
technicalities of rhetoric are absorbed. And so the example becomes also the deeper theme of
discourse. The true knowledge of things in heaven and earth is based upon enthusiasm or love
of the ideas going before us and ever present to us in this world and in another; and the true
order of speech or writing proceeds accordingly. Love, again, has three degrees: first, of
interested love corresponding to the conventionalities of rhetoric; secondly, of disinterested
or mad love, fixed on objects of sense, and answering, perhaps, to poetry; thirdly, of disinterested
love directed towards the unseen, answering to dialectic or the science of the ideas. Lastly,
the art of rhetoric in the lower sense is found to rest on a knowledge of the natures and characters
of men, which Socrates at the commencement of the Dialogue has described as his own peculiar study.

Thus amid discord a harmony begins to appear; there are many links of connection which are
not visible at first sight. At the same time the Phaedrus, although one of the most beautiful
of the Platonic Dialogues, is also more irregular than any other. For insight into the world,
for sustained irony, for depth of thought, there is no Dialogue superior, or perhaps equal
to it. Nevertheless the form of the work has tended to obscure some of Plato's higher aims.

The first speech is composed 'in that balanced style in which the wise love to talk' (Symp.).
The characteristics of rhetoric are insipidity, mannerism, and monotonous parallelism of clauses.
There is more rhythm than reason; the creative power of imagination is wanting.

''Tis Greece, but living Greece no more.'

Plato has seized by anticipation the spirit which hung over Greek literature for a thousand
years afterwards. Yet doubtless there were some who, like Phaedrus, felt a delight in the harmonious
cadence and the pedantic reasoning of the rhetoricians newly imported from Sicily, which had
ceased to be awakened in them by really great works, such as the odes of Anacreon or Sappho
or the orations of Pericles. That the first speech was really written by Lysias is improbable.
Like the poem of Solon, or the story of Thamus and Theuth, or the funeral oration of Aspasia
(if genuine), or the pretence of Socrates in the Cratylus that his knowledge of philology is
derived from Euthyphro, the invention is really due to the imagination of Plato, and may be
compared to the parodies of the Sophists in the Protagoras. Numerous fictions of this sort
occur in the Dialogues, and the gravity of Plato has sometimes imposed upon his commentators.
The introduction of a considerable writing of another would seem not to be in keeping with
a great work of art, and has no parallel elsewhere.

In the second speech Socrates is exhibited as beating the rhetoricians at their own weapons;
he 'an unpractised man and they masters of the art.' True to his character, he must, however,
profess that the speech which he makes is not his own, for he knows nothing of himself. (Compare
Symp.) Regarded as a rhetorical exercise, the superiority of his speech seems to consist chiefly
in a better arrangement of the topics; he begins with a definition of love, and he gives weight
to his words by going back to general maxims; a lesser merit is the greater liveliness of Socrates,
which hurries him into verse and relieves the monotony of the style.

But Plato had doubtless a higher purpose than to exhibit Socrates as the rival or superior
of the Athenian rhetoricians. Even in the speech of Lysias there is a germ of truth, and this
is further developed in the parallel oration of Socrates. First, passionate love is overthrown
by the sophistical or interested, and then both yield to that higher view of love which is
afterwards revealed to us. The extreme of commonplace is contrasted with the most ideal and
imaginative of speculations. Socrates, half in jest and to satisfy his own wild humour, takes
the disguise of Lysias, but he is also in profound earnest and in a deeper vein of irony than
usual. Having improvised his own speech, which is based upon the model of the preceding, he
condemns them both. Yet the condemnation is not to be taken seriously, for he is evidently
trying to express an aspect of the truth. To understand him, we must make abstraction of morality
and of the Greek manner of regarding the relation of the sexes. In this, as in his other discussions
about love, what Plato says of the loves of men must be transferred to the loves of women before
we can attach any serious meaning to his words. Had he lived in our times he would have made
the transposition himself. But seeing in his own age the impossibility of woman being the intellectual
helpmate or friend of man (except in the rare instances of a Diotima or an Aspasia), seeing
that, even as to personal beauty, her place was taken by young mankind instead of womankind,
he tries to work out the problem of love without regard to the distinctions of nature. And
full of the evils which he recognized as flowing from the spurious form of love, he proceeds
with a deep meaning, though partly in joke, to show that the 'non-lover's' love is better than
the 'lover's.'

We may raise the same question in another form: Is marriage preferable with or without love?
'Among ourselves,' as we may say, a little parodying the words of Pausanias in the Symposium,
'there would be one answer to this question: the practice and feeling of some foreign countries
appears to be more doubtful.' Suppose a modern Socrates, in defiance of the received notions
of society and the sentimental literature of the day, alone against all the writers and readers
of novels, to suggest this enquiry, would not the younger 'part of the world be ready to take
off its coat and run at him might and main?' (Republic.) Yet, if like Peisthetaerus in Aristophanes,
he could persuade the 'birds' to hear him, retiring a little behind a rampart, not of pots
and dishes, but of unreadable books, he might have something to say for himself. Might he not
argue, 'that a rational being should not follow the dictates of passion in the most important
act of his or her life'? Who would willingly enter into a contract at first sight, almost without
thought, against the advice and opinion of his friends, at a time when he acknowledges that
he is not in his right mind? And yet they are praised by the authors of romances, who reject
the warnings of their friends or parents, rather than those who listen to them in such matters.
Two inexperienced persons, ignorant of the world and of one another, how can they be said to
choose?--they draw lots, whence also the saying, 'marriage is a lottery.' Then he would describe
their way of life after marriage; how they monopolize one another's affections to the exclusion
of friends and relations: how they pass their days in unmeaning fondness or trivial conversation;
how the inferior of the two drags the other down to his or her level; how the cares of a family
'breed meanness in their souls.' In the fulfilment of military or public duties, they are not
helpers but hinderers of one another: they cannot undertake any noble enterprise, such as makes
the names of men and women famous, from domestic considerations. Too late their eyes are opened;
they were taken unawares and desire to part company. Better, he would say, a 'little love at
the beginning,' for heaven might have increased it; but now their foolish fondness has changed
into mutual dislike. And then sent Inca Yupanqui, that because were
dried apricots, then they were shorn her hair and so they themselves were shorn all, seeing the will
of the Inca and seeing them to worship in it, and brought Becausethe Inca Yupanqui and Cuzco
was twirling ride. And this was done, commanded them that they were all his people, and to live
in peace, and he ordered his captains not consenting to aquesta of Xaquixaguana they should
be made no anger or being taken, any thing, and if anything of their estates in that they were
taken spoil, then the hiciesen return.

And then ordered that all prisoners were brought before him, to whom, as there were, asked what
had been the cause, provided that, was his great power, which hiciesen battle it again? And still
there among the prisoners there were incurred the Uscovilca four captains who went to discover,
as history has told you, [Said, responded] that the cause that moved them to the board that they
did in giving battle, which was to have seen his fortune was great in the days that had gone
é land they had conquered, giving reason for the battles there and in such recuentros day
each of them had been, and that none of them had never been unfortunately but had always been
victorious, and how it had acaescido them, having to always his victory was on foot, who had wanted
to give this battle, thinking that restore loss of their Lord, and avenge his death. In reply
Inca Yupanqui, who had looked wrong, and that if they were men of understanding, which were to
presume that if they had been victory for the land that they said they had gone, they had
to consider that had been in their Lord Uscovilca chance that in such demand had winters, and
as hobiesen they saw and learned that his Lord was defeated and dead, who had presumably I was
finished and the chance, and that he did not already have them, and that they were é mirasen
punished and others hear it, that this place would be punished them and all other: and again
because they were not [to] make people, which to him were uneasy and cause them that other
orchestras will be found innocent in such cases where they lost lives, as had been very many of
them [to] the junta had done together, which at that site would be punished. And thus, he sent
them to bring before him, and that the site would do the battle, and for hobiese della memory,
in the presence of all its field should command drive many clubs which were hanged, and after
seasoned [hanged] their heads were cut and placed on top of the sticks, and their bodies were burned
there and made powders, and from the highest hills were dispersed through the air, desto hobiesen
that memory. And thus it was ordered that none dared to bury any body of the enemy that longs
had died in battle, because they were eaten by foxes and birds and worms [bones] of such views
were there all the time. All this was done usually in the way that you heard.

And it finished, he ordered Inca Yupanqui was collected all the spoil and gold jewelry silver
in the plunder that had been there, all of which was dated, and brought
in front of and seen by him, ordered ANSI time as it was, it brought
into the city of Cuzco, where the divide and give thought to their
friends.

All of which was eagerly taken to him and snapped together thus for the city of Cuzco, where,
where it was, just gave and shared the spoils to their own, giving each one his paresció that
was enough and according to the quality of person. And that made and distributed, ordered his
clothes and big wins in the city had, [and] of other provisions, ordered (so) that brought him
there was a certain amount, which parescia to him that all were enough, all of which brought
ANSI, he commanded his captains that divided among all his people, all of which was distributed.

And
these grants and others made very many more than he did to his captains, who were sent to
their land to rest, and thanked him for the favor and help they had given, and so he went all,
and Inca Yupanqui was in town with his family. É while Se dismissed their these gentlemen for
going to their land, they begged him that wanted to receive me under
his protection and such mercy and its vassals, and that he wanted
to take the fringe of the state and be of Inca all of which are agradesció
Inca Yupanqui and answered them that this was his father alive and
Lord, and it was not fair that while his father lived, he would take
the fringe of the State, that if this was there, that was Becausethe
was captain of his father, and begged them both that he did, it was
the one, from there, I long as they were, they were to do his father
was and respected him and do what they command them as such he was
Lord, and they said would do so.

É the other was, that they had to him by such a friend and brother, and that each and when that
he will be shipped to beg them, which they did, and they said they had no other Lord but he was,
and as such to their vassals, they could do that was good to him and he thanked him.

And thus, the left [32], and Inca Yupanqui stayed in the city, and such gentlemen caciques
went from there do Viracocha Inca was right, and after you have done your due compliance, as
Inca Yupanqui had commanded him, told him how the winters Inca Yupanqui there for them to see
what was served that they serve him, and saw them as Inca Viracocha front of him and such a multitude
of lords and so much power, much of it rejoiced because Dell had this great need for favoresciesen
him with some much of his income to build that people there wanted to do: and told them that
they were very welcome, é arose from his seat and embraced them all and it became to sit in his
chair, and commanded them to all that longs to sit down, and commanded them to put many glasses
of chicha, and gave them to drink; and then they brought out a large amount of coca, an herb
prized that they always bring in mouth, which tell the story along
grass.

And thus divided between those gentlemen, Viracocha rose standing, [and] considering that as
your child masters those invia and they both loved him and wanted him as Lord, it was just
that he ansimismo it will encouraged, we did some prayer, by which he in turn agradescia them
what he and his son had done, and already knew and had heard that he had been up there Lord
of Cuzco, é he had gotten off to do so for reasons that moved him, and that Inca Yupanqui then
on, his son, was to be Lord in the city of Cuzco, and that to him obey and respect, such as their
Lord, and from there he Desesti logo and real fringe and put it on the head of his son Inca
Yupanqui. All of which is heard by the lords, stood up, and one by one went to him and gave him
great thanks, and showed that rescibian large grant them the fact of such waiver of such dignity
and give your son Inca Yupanqui, which they both loved é wanted by the Lord, and this fact,
it turned to sit.

Viracocha Inca and begged them, that because he wanted there in the Peñol do was build a people,
and that this had need of your help and people, he begged them who had them well to give that
assistance, to which the gentlemen replied that they had come there so that he could see what
they could do him some service, as Lord Inca Yupanqui had commanded him: and that this and any
other thing he wanted was to send ready for what to do, to tell them the time and wanted to
start the month in which [to] do its work for them to invest their principal and Indians there
that they might understand the how and hiciesen of such buildings, and he, meanwhile, give the trace
of such people, and make hiciese clay figure of such buildings, they will inviarian teachers
who knew there doing good ANSI stonework as chelate the way I wanted. And his son Viracocha
(So) was grateful to them all, and then sent out many things, as
they were deep and suitcases of cocaine, and certain pieces of fine
clothes and other things between them very valuable; all of which
were brought in front of him, and being, he mesmo there got their
hands and distributed to those men and this fact, he commanded them
to drink, and that they be provided himself distributed a certain
amount of coca.

And this fact, Viracocha Inca stood up and thanked them the will and love to him and his son
and had showed him, and said the month and time they had to send his Indians and people to build
their people, and so he, Mr. rose on foot, and was staying with him in winter, and that they had,
they made their compliance, and so he will leave of him, where we will leave, and talk of Inca Yupanqui.

These
gentlemen were coming out of where Inca Yupanqui chiefs was, and went to do Viracocha Inca
was, as history has told you, and Inca Yupanqui left alone in the city their own, after having
rested two days, they had already parescióle idleness, E had recreation taken by the exercise of
his person, and so he came out one day in the city tomorrow Cuzco, é carrying the gentlemen
who had him there, he walked all that day land around the city were, and so did another the next
day, [and] after the well have seen and watched, saw the poor distribution é art that while
there his father was they had. The third day, also went looking ansímismo, together with the
gentlemen, the site where the city of Cuzco was founded, all of which, or as dello were swamps
and maniantales, as history has told you, and the houses of the inhabitants were della é thatched
small and poorly built and no proportion of street art that people had; ANSI well as in the
present day near this city a village called Cayaucachi was At that time the houses and people that
now is the great city of Cuzco.

And Inca Yupanqui saw too badly this town of Cuzco, land ansímismo é Around the crops that were
parescióle, seeing that he had time and a great rig for the new rebuilt,
and that first house in the village hiciese nor the distribution of
land, it would be okay and to build a house in the sun, in whose house
verifications and was wearing a package in place and revere the sun
do hiciesen sacrifices because, although they have there is one who
is the Maker, whom they called Viracocha Pachayachachic, says maker
the world, and they have it made the sun and all that is raised in
heaven and earth, as we have heard; caresciendo of letters of understanding
and being blind in the know, almost many variants on this at all and
everything, which sometimes have the sun by maker, and sometimes say
that the Viracocha, and for the most part, the whole earth and every
province della, as the Devil brings you befuddled, and each party
told them they showed thousand lies and deceptions, and so they brought
them deceived and blind, and in such places do ANSI Vian will they
placed stones in place, whom they revered and worshiped.

And as I say sometimes it was the sun, and to others elsewhere said it was the moon, and to others
that it was their God and Maker, E to others it was their fire that the heat and light, that
they crave é would see the volcanoes of Arequipa [33] in other parts said it was the Lord
who had given Being the world, and was called Pachacamac, he says, Giver of being the world,
and so he's brought, as I have said, deceived and blind.

And back to our history, the Lord Inca Yupanqui, and wanted to make home and shrine whom he revered
and others of his people, Quiros what to do reverence and likeness which had been before his battle,
and considering he craves quel see, whom he called Viracocha, who saw him brightly, they say,
and in such a way that paresció that he was there all day and before the fire, which saw before
him say there was great fear, and never told him who it was, considering it as such, when
this House wanted to build, than that which saw, according to the fire that he had seen, which
was to to be the sun, and how to get there and the first word he
said "Son, do not be fear, "and so they own, as history has told you,
he was called after Son of the Sun tiniendo he craves and what we
have heard, proposed to the House of the Sun

And as proposed, called
his men and the lords of the city of Cuzco to get there had, and said
they look forward had thought and wanted to build this house, and
they said to give the order and trace the building of it, because
such a house like that, they, the natives and own the city of Cuzco
to the debian build é, é Inca Yupanqui said that house was to be built
then, because he had thought they crave.

And seen him do site paresció it to him better than the house was to be built, he ordered that
there be brought a string, and being so brought, rose up the place do were he and his men,
and now the site do was to be the house built, he himself by his hands with the line measured
and drew the House the Sun, and having drawn, left there with his family and went to a people
who say Salu [34] which is nearly five miles from this city parks do is take the quarries, and
measured the stones for the building of this house, and so he measures in the neighboring villages
began stones them was identified and those were enough for the building of this house, and together
with this, they brought everything else to the building Desta was necessary, and being already
there, put to work building della either ANSI as the Inca Yupanqui had traced and imagined.
Ando he provided the other lords over the work, watching the builders, and longing as others working
in this building, which work together as there had material and necessities of it, which was
finished in short time.

And as I was finished the other house of the sun that you have heard, then sent Inca Yupanqui
together five hundred women were virgins, and as there were brought, offered him the sun, so
that there are always such to worship the sun and maidens were in there, well ANSI as the nuns
are enclosed, and then, there he called an old man and natural Cuzco that he thought he was honest
and of good examples and fame, which and regiese was there at the
Casa del Sol, and to be steward of the sun and that house.

And then ordered that there be handed over hundred porters of the sun, and ansímismo at that time
said some land for the sun, who planted these two hundred yanaconas.

And this fact, Inca Yupanqui sent to the lords of Cuzco, and from there to ten days, they had
much proveimiento rigged corn, sheep and lambs, and ansímismo much fine clothes, and some amount
of children, they call Capacocha, all of which was to make sacrifice sun. And since the ten days
of age and this and all together, Inca Yupanqui ordered a large fire, which sent fire, after
having made slaughter sheep and lambs, which were thrown into it, and other clothing and corn,
offering all the sun, and the children who ANSI had assembled, being well dressed and seasoned,
mandolin buried alive in that house, which was especially made for
where was the bulk of the sun, and with blood lambs and sheep had
taken, he ordered them to be made certain lines on the walls this
house, all of which made it and his three friends and others, all
of which sinificaba way of biendecir and consecrate this house, in
which sacrifice was walking Inca Yupanqui and his companions Barefoot
and showing great reverence to this house and the sun.

É ansímismo with the same people [Blood?] The Inca Yupanqui had some scratches on the face
[to] this man who was identified by steward of this house, and so did those gentlemen, his three
friends, and to the virgins nuns to serve the sun were there. And then ordered that all city, ANSI
men and women, should come and make their sacrifices there to the house of the sun, which sacrifices
craves the common people did was burn some corn and coca craves that fire was made, entering
every one of these one by one and barefoot, looking down, and leaving it craves Salian, after making
his sacrifice, to every one of these on their Inca Yupanqui ordered that Butler hiciese sun
stripe same as you have heard, with the blood of sheep, in faces of these who craves Salian,
whom I was commanded, that from that time until the bulk of the sun were made of gold, they were
all fasting, and not to eat meat or fish or even his cooking, and reaching women, nor eat any
vegetables, and only eat raw corn and drink chicha, Sopena that would break the fast, were
sacrificed the sun and burned in the fire itself. The Inca Yupanqui ordered that fire was
always burning night and day, the wood fire which sent Inca Yupanqui was wrought and while the
idol was burned in the fire hiciesen sacrifices, which he commanded during this time would go all
the virgins of the sun, which ansímismo were big and fast the same as the Inca Yupanqui and
other masters.

And this fact and provided, Inca Yupanqui ordered them to come there silversmiths in the city
had, and the best officers, and tackle them all there in the Casas del Sol, I sent that would
make a child-cast solid gold, it was the child's size and proportion of altor a one year old
and naked, for they say that he who would speak when he stood in prayer while in the dream,
to come to him at that figure of a very bright child, and he came to him later, while awake,
the night before the battle to give Uscovilca, as I told you that was so much glare that you
saw the result, which left him no see what shape he was, and so they sent to the idol of the
size and shape of a child aged a year which it took to package a
month, which month had the great sacrifices and fasting.

 (See note on Symposium.)

In the Phaedrus, as well as in the Symposium, there are two kinds of love, a lower and a higher,
the one answering to the natural wants of the animal, the other rising above them and contemplating
with religious awe the forms of justice, temperance, holiness, yet finding them also 'too dazzling
bright for mortal eye,' and shrinking from them in amazement. The opposition between these
two kinds of love may be compared to the opposition between the flesh and the spirit in the
Epistles of St. Paul. It would be unmeaning to suppose that Plato, in describing the spiritual
combat, in which the rational soul is finally victor and master of both the steeds, condescends
to allow any indulgence of unnatural lusts.

Two other thoughts about love are suggested by this passage. First of all, love is represented
here, as in the Symposium, as one of the great powers of nature, which takes many forms and
two principal ones, having a predominant influence over the lives of men. And these two, though
opposed, are not absolutely separated the one from the other. Plato, with his great knowledge
of human nature, was well aware how easily one is transformed into the other, or how soon the
noble but fleeting aspiration may return into the nature of the animal, while the lower instinct
which is latent always remains. The intermediate sentimentalism, which has exercised so great
an influence on the literature of modern Europe, had no place in the classical times of Hellas;
the higher love, of which Plato speaks, is the subject, not of poetry or fiction, but of philosophy.

Secondly, there seems to be indicated a natural yearning of the human mind that the great ideas
of justice, temperance, wisdom, should be expressed in some form of visible beauty, like the
absolute purity and goodness which Christian art has sought to realize in the person of the
Madonna. But although human nature has often attempted to represent outwardly what can be only
'spiritually discerned,' men feel that in pictures and images, whether painted or carved, or
described in words only, we have not the substance but the shadow of the truth which is in
heaven. There is no reason to suppose that in the fairest works of Greek art, Plato ever conceived
himself to behold an image, however faint, of ideal truths. 'Not in that way was wisdom seen.'

We may now pass on to the second part of the Dialogue, which is a criticism on the first. Rhetoric
is assailed on various grounds: first, as desiring to persuade, without a knowledge of the
truth; and secondly, as ignoring the distinction between certain and probable matter. The three
speeches are then passed in review: the first of them has no definition of the nature of love,
and no order in the topics (being in these respects far inferior to the second); while the
third of them is found (though a fancy of the hour) to be framed upon real dialectical principles.
But dialectic is not rhetoric; nothing on that subject is to be found in the endless treatises
of rhetoric, however prolific in hard names. When Plato has sufficiently put them to the test
of ridicule he touches, as with the point of a needle, the real error, which is the confusion
of preliminary knowledge with creative power. No attainments will provide the speaker with
genius; and the sort of attainments which can alone be of any value are the higher philosophy
and the power of psychological analysis, which is given by dialectic, but not by the rules
of the rhetoricians.

In this latter portion of the Dialogue there are many texts which may help us to speak and
to think. The names dialectic and rhetoric are passing out of use; we hardly examine seriously
into their nature and limits, and probably the arts both of speaking and of conversation have
been unduly neglected by us. But the mind of Socrates pierces through the differences of times
and countries into the essential nature of man; and his words apply equally to the modern world
and to the Athenians of old. Would he not have asked of us, or rather is he not asking of us,
Whether we have ceased to prefer appearances to reality? Let us take a survey of the professions
to which he refers and try them by his standard. Is not all literature passing into criticism,
just as Athenian literature in the age of Plato was degenerating into sophistry and rhetoric?
We can discourse and write about poems and paintings, but we seem to have lost the gift of
creating them. Can we wonder that few of them 'come sweetly from nature,' while ten thousand
reviewers (mala murioi) are engaged in dissecting them? Young men, like Phaedrus, are enamoured
of their own literary clique and have but a feeble sympathy with the master-minds of former
ages. They recognize 'a POETICAL necessity in the writings of their favourite author, even
when he boldly wrote off just what came in his head.' They are beginning to think that Art
is enough, just at the time when Art is about to disappear from the world. And would not a
great painter, such as Michael Angelo, or a great poet, such as Shakespeare, returning to earth,
'courteously rebuke' us--would he not say that we are putting 'in the place of Art the preliminaries
of Art,' confusing Art the expression of mind and truth with Art the composition of colours
and forms; and perhaps he might more severely chastise some of us for trying to invent 'a new
shudder' instead of bringing to the birth living and healthy creations? These he would regard
as the signs of an age wanting in original power.

Turning from literature and the arts to law and politics, again we fall under the lash of Socrates.
For do we not often make 'the worse appear the better cause;' and do not 'both parties sometimes
agree to tell lies'? Is not pleading 'an art of speaking unconnected with the truth'? There
is another text of Socrates which must not be forgotten in relation to this subject. In the
endless maze of English law is there any 'dividing the whole into parts or reuniting the parts
into a whole'--any semblance of an organized being 'having hands and feet and other members'?
Instead of a system there is the Chaos of Anaxagoras (omou panta chremata) and no Mind or Order.
Then again in the noble art of politics, who thinks of first principles and of true ideas?
We avowedly follow not the truth but the will of the many (compare Republic). Is not legislation
too a sort of literary effort, and might not statesmanship be described as the 'art of enchanting'
the house? While there are some politicians who have no knowledge of the truth, but only of
what is likely to be approved by 'the many who sit in judgment,' there are others who can give
no form to their ideal, neither having learned 'the art of persuasion,' nor having any insight
into the 'characters of men.' Once more, has not medical science become a professional routine,
which many 'practise without being able to say who were their instructors'--the application
of a few drugs taken from a book instead of a life-long study of the natures and constitutions
of human beings? Do we see as clearly as Hippocrates 'that the nature of the body can only
be understood as a whole'? (Compare Charm.) And are not they held to be the wisest physicians
who have the greatest distrust of their art? What would Socrates think of our newspapers, of
our theology? Perhaps he would be afraid to speak of them;--the one vox populi, the other vox
Dei, he might hesitate to attack them; or he might trace a fanciful connexion between them,
and ask doubtfully, whether they are not equally inspired? He would remark that we are always
searching for a belief and deploring our unbelief, seeming to prefer popular opinions unverified
and contradictory to unpopular truths which are assured to us by the most certain proofs: that
our preachers are in the habit of praising God 'without regard to truth and falsehood, attributing
to Him every species of greatness and glory, saying that He is all this and the cause of all
that, in order that we may exhibit Him as the fairest and best of all' (Symp.) without any
consideration of His real nature and character or of the laws by which He governs the world--seeking
for a 'private judgment' and not for the truth or 'God's judgment.' What would he say of the
Church, which we praise in like manner, 'meaning ourselves,' without regard to history or experience?
Might he not ask, whether we 'care more for the truth of religion, or for the speaker and the
country from which the truth comes'? or, whether the 'select wise' are not 'the many' after
all? (Symp.) So we may fill up the sketch of Socrates, lest, as Phaedrus says, the argument
should be too 'abstract and barren of illustrations.' (Compare Symp., Apol., Euthyphro.)

He next proceeds with enthusiasm to define the royal art of dialectic as the power of dividing
a whole into parts, and of uniting the parts in a whole, and which may also be regarded (compare
Soph.) as the process of the mind talking with herself. The latter view has probably led Plato
to the paradox that speech is superior to writing, in which he may seem also to be doing an
injustice to himself. For the two cannot be fairly compared in the manner which Plato suggests.
The contrast of the living and dead word, and the example of Socrates, which he has represented
in the form of the Dialogue, seem to have misled him. For speech and writing have really different
functions; the one is more transitory, more diffuse, more elastic and capable of adaptation
to moods and times; the other is more permanent, more concentrated, and is uttered not to this
or that person or audience, but to all the world. In the Politicus the paradox is carried further;
the mind or will of the king is preferred to the written law; he is supposed to be the Law
personified, the ideal made Life.

Yet in both these statements there is also contained a truth; they may be compared with one
another, and also with the other famous paradox, that 'knowledge cannot be taught.' Socrates
means to say, that what is truly written is written in the soul, just as what is truly taught
grows up in the soul from within and is not forced upon it from without. When planted in a
congenial soil the little seed becomes a tree, and 'the birds of the air build their nests
in the branches.' There is an echo of this in the prayer at the end of the Dialogue, 'Give
me beauty in the inward soul, and may the inward and outward man be at one.' We may further
compare the words of St. Paul, 'Written not on tables of stone, but on fleshly tables of the
heart;' and again, 'Ye are my epistles known and read of all men.' There may be a use in writing
as a preservative against the forgetfulness of old age, but to live is higher far, to be ourselves
the book, or the epistle, the truth embodied in a person, the Word made flesh. Something like
this we may believe to have passed before Plato's mind when he affirmed that speech was superior
to writing. So in other ages, weary of literature and criticism, of making many books, of writing
articles in reviews, some have desired to live more closely in communion with their fellow-men,
to speak heart to heart, to speak and act only, and not to write, following the example of
Socrates and of Christ...

Some other touches of inimitable grace and art and of the deepest wisdom may be also noted;
such as the prayer or 'collect' which has just been cited, 'Give me beauty,' etc.; or 'the
great name which belongs to God alone;' or 'the saying of wiser men than ourselves that a man
of sense should try to please not his fellow-servants, but his good and noble masters,' like
St. Paul again; or the description of the 'heavenly originals'...

The chief criteria for determining the date of the Dialogue are (1) the ages of Lysias and
Isocrates; (2) the character of the work.

Lysias was born in the year 458; Isocrates in the year 436, about seven years before the birth
of Plato. The first of the two great rhetoricians is described as in the zenith of his fame;
the second is still young and full of promise. Now it is argued that this must have been written
in the youth of Isocrates, when the promise was not yet fulfilled. And thus we should have
to assign the Dialogue to a year not later than 406, when Isocrates was thirty and Plato twenty-three
years of age, and while Socrates himself was still alive.

Those who argue in this way seem not to reflect how easily Plato can 'invent Egyptians or anything
else,' and how careless he is of historical truth or probability. Who would suspect that the
wise Critias, the virtuous Charmides, had ended their lives among the thirty tyrants? Who would
imagine that Lysias, who is here assailed by Socrates, is the son of his old friend Cephalus?
Or that Isocrates himself is the enemy of Plato and his school? No arguments can be drawn from
the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the characters of Plato. (Else, perhaps, it might
be further argued that, judging from their extant remains, insipid rhetoric is far more characteristic
of Isocrates than of Lysias.) But Plato makes use of names which have often hardly any connection
with the historical characters to whom they belong. To other people that there was, they sent to
stay at the door do Inca Yupanqui was and that if they feel some people DIN inside, enter at once
all and who would look for his master.

And this fact, people who took the Inca Yupanqui had commanded them, and throwing forward fifty
Indians, one by one, two by two, covered with their blankets (like that), very discreetly, and
well who had left had sent ahead saliesen Inca Viracocha, which fifty Indians were discovered, looking
for his enemies. And as they were scattered and large space each other, an Indian one of those
who went ahead as they came together at the broken firing and stream discharge was do the straw,
saw the enemy ambush, which, as they saw looming, dejáronse all fall on the straw, I thought I
had seen. And this Indian as the saw, sat on the floor and made to tie spent some tie his shoes,
dissimulation which was a sign and warning to his companions that behind came, which, as might
see him in the way that you have heard of one another became the new to the two gentlemen who
behind them came, which, as it was understood that ambush, sent to all yours is collected
and together there they do the voice had taken, except at fifty that had gone before, whom
I commanded that went around looking at and discovering those who were in the ambush if they left
or went ahead, and send to that tied shoes, coming a lowly Indian to him which tell him showing
that tied and untied shoes and other things of his to bring, which might show dissimulation of
what had understood.

And leaving it in this state, back to Inca Yupanqui, who, as provided on hobiese what you heard,
begged his father to prison pisase those logos there Uscovilca had brought him, which said Viracocha
Inca, who did not want to, if not stepped Urco first Inca, and Inca Yupanqui to this he said that
because he was her father and I have respect dalle obidient and as such their Lord, had he been there
to his people that he pisase, and beg him to ansímismo returned to their village and city of
Cuzco, for he, like his father and in his name he had won that company, he wanted out of there
and go to town Cuzco and enter succeeding with those captains and Uscovilca things, because
that had been his intention and to which he had come there, that another way, that he had not
Quél bring what they had gained such pisase Urco Inca, his eldest son. And finish saying that
his father Inca Yupanqui Inca Viracocha, ordered to take the clothes and the rest of Uscovilca,
and ordered the prisoners to lift the soil, which until that hour had been lying on the ground,
and so he got out Inca Yupanqui, and run angry that his father had not stomping on prisoners and
their loved what you heard. And his father had pesábale be so wrong with him that he wanted to
kill and bring about death, seeing it in himself that he had not given cause wherefore of
angry e hobiese had ill will, but before attempting and had sought to make all service, and
make all pleasure and contentment, and how they know that anger and passion of it thou had was for
envy to see quel escedia all his brethren, both had some passion for it.
 And therefore he would have 'bid Farewell to them; the
study of them would take up too much of his time; and he has not as yet learned the true nature
of religion.' The 'sophistical' interest of Phaedrus, the little touch about the two versions
of the story, the ironical manner in which these explanations are set aside--'the common opinion
about them is enough for me'--the allusion to the serpent Typho may be noted in passing; also
the general agreement between the tone of this speech and the remark of Socrates which follows
afterwards, 'I am a diviner, but a poor one.'

The tale of the grasshoppers is naturally suggested by the surrounding scene. They are also
the representatives of the Athenians as children of the soil. Under the image of the lively
chirruping grasshoppers who inform the Muses in heaven about those who honour them on earth,
Plato intends to represent an Athenian audience (tettigessin eoikotes). The story is introduced,
apparently, to mark a change of subject, and also, like several other allusions which occur
in the course of the Dialogue, in order to preserve the scene in the recollection of the reader.

*****

No one can duly appreciate the dialogues of Plato, especially the Phaedrus, Symposium, and
portions of the Republic, who has not a sympathy with mysticism. To the uninitiated, as he
would himself have acknowledged, they will appear to be the dreams of a poet who is disguised
as a philosopher. There is a twofold difficulty in apprehending this aspect of the Platonic
writings. First, we do not immediately realize that under the marble exterior of Greek literature
was concealed a soul thrilling with spiritual emotion. Secondly, the forms or figures which
the Platonic philosophy assumes, are not like the images of the prophet Isaiah, or of the Apocalypse,
familiar to us in the days of our youth. By mysticism we mean, not the extravagance of an erring
fancy, but the concentration of reason in feeling, the enthusiastic love of the good, the true,
the one, the sense of the infinity of knowledge and of the marvel of the human faculties. When
feeding upon such thoughts the 'wing of the soul' is renewed and gains strength; she is raised
above 'the manikins of earth' and their opinions, waiting in wonder to know, and working with
reverence to find out what God in this or in another life may reveal to her.

ON THE DECLINE OF GREEK LITERATURE.

One of the main purposes of Plato in the Phaedrus is to satirize Rhetoric, or rather the Professors
of Rhetoric who swarmed at Athens in the fourth century before Christ. As in the opening of
the Dialogue he ridicules the interpreters of mythology; as in the Protagoras he mocks at the
Sophists; as in the Euthydemus he makes fun of the word-splitting Eristics; as in the Cratylus
he ridicules the fancies of Etymologers; as in the Meno and Gorgias and some other dialogues
he makes reflections and casts sly imputation upon the higher classes at Athens; so in the
Phaedrus, chiefly in the latter part, he aims his shafts at the rhetoricians. The profession
of rhetoric was the greatest and most popular in Athens, necessary 'to a man's salvation,'
or at any rate to his attainment of wealth or power; but Plato finds nothing wholesome or genuine
in the purpose of it. It is a veritable 'sham,' having no relation to fact, or to truth of
any kind. It is antipathetic to him not only as a philosopher, but also as a great writer.
He cannot abide the tricks of the rhetoricians, or the pedantries and mannerisms which they
introduce into speech and writing. He sees clearly how far removed they are from the ways of
simplicity and truth, and how ignorant of the very elements of the art which they are professing
to teach. The thing which is most necessary of all, the knowledge of human nature, is hardly
if at all considered by them. The true rules of composition, which are very few, are not to
be found in their voluminous systems. Their pretentiousness, their omniscience, their large
fortunes, their impatience of argument, their indifference to first principles, their stupidity,
their progresses through Hellas accompanied by a troop of their disciples--these things were
very distasteful to Plato, who esteemed genius far above art, and was quite sensible of the
interval which separated them (Phaedrus). It is the interval which separates Sophists and rhetoricians
from ancient famous men and women such as Homer and Hesiod, Anacreon and Sappho, Aeschylus
and Sophocles; and the Platonic Socrates is afraid that, if he approves the former, he will
be disowned by the latter. The spirit of rhetoric was soon to overspread all Hellas; and Plato
with prophetic insight may have seen, from afar, the great literary waste or dead level, or
interminable marsh, in which Greek literature was soon to disappear. A similar vision of the
decline of the Greek drama and of the contrast of the old literature and the new was present
to the mind of Aristophanes after the death of the three great tragedians (Frogs). After about
a hundred, or at most two hundred years if we exclude Homer, the genius of Hellas had ceased
to flower or blossom. The dreary waste which follows, beginning with the Alexandrian writers
and even before them in the platitudes of Isocrates and his school, spreads over much more
than a thousand years. And from this decline the Greek language and literature, unlike the
Latin, which has come to life in new forms and been developed into the great European languages,
never recovered.

This monotony of literature, without merit, without genius and without character, is a phenomenon
which deserves more attention than it has hitherto received; it is a phenomenon unique in the
literary history of the world. How could there have been so much cultivation, so much diligence
in writing, and so little mind or real creative power? Why did a thousand years invent nothing
better than Sibylline books, Orphic poems, Byzantine imitations of classical histories, Christian
reproductions of Greek plays, novels like the silly and obscene romances of Longus and Heliodorus,
innumerable forged epistles, a great many epigrams, biographies of the meanest and most meagre
description, a sham philosophy which was the bastard progeny of the union between Hellas and
the East? Only in Plutarch, in Lucian, in Longinus, in the Roman emperors Marcus Aurelius and
Julian, in some of the Christian fathers are there any traces of good sense or originality,
or any power of arousing the interest of later ages. And when new books ceased to be written,
why did hosts of grammarians and interpreters flock in, who never attain to any sound notion
either of grammar or interpretation? Why did the physical sciences never arrive at any true
knowledge or make any real progress? Why did poetry droop and languish? Why did history degenerate
into fable? Why did words lose their power of expression? Why were ages of external greatness
and magnificence attended by all the signs of decay in the human mind which are possible?

To these questions many answers may be given, which if not the true causes, are at least to
be reckoned among the symptoms of the decline. There is the want of method in physical science,
the want of criticism in history, the want of simplicity or delicacy in poetry, the want of
political freedom, which is the true atmosphere of public speaking, in oratory. The ways of
life were luxurious and commonplace. Philosophy had become extravagant, eclectic, abstract,
devoid of any real content. At length it ceased to exist. It had spread words like plaster
over the whole field of knowledge. It had grown ascetic on one side, mystical on the other.
Neither of these tendencies was favourable to literature. There was no sense of beauty either
in language or in art. The Greek world became vacant, barbaric, oriental. No one had anything
new to say, or any conviction of truth. The age had no remembrance of the past, no power of
understanding what other ages thought and felt. The Catholic faith had degenerated into dogma
and controversy. For more than a thousand years not a single writer of first-rate, or even
of second-rate, reputation has a place in the innumerable rolls of Greek literature.

If we seek to go deeper, we can still only describe the outward nature of the clouds or darkness
which were spread over the heavens during so many ages without relief or light. We may say
that this, like several other long periods in the history of the human race, was destitute,
or deprived of the moral qualities which are the root of literary excellence. It had no life
or aspiration, no national or political force, no desire for consistency, no love of knowledge
for its own sake. It did not attempt to pierce the mists which surrounded it. It did not propose
to itself to go forward and scale the heights of knowledge, but to go backwards and seek at
the beginning what can only be found towards the end. It was lost in doubt and ignorance. It
rested upon tradition and authority. It had none of the higher play of fancy which creates
poetry; and where there is no true poetry, neither can there be any good prose. It had no great
characters, and therefore it had no great writers. It was incapable of distinguishing between
words and things. It was so hopelessly below the ancient standard of classical Greek art and
literature that it had no power of understanding or of valuing them. It is doubtful whether
any Greek author was justly appreciated in antiquity except by his own contemporaries; and
this neglect of the great authors of the past led to the disappearance of the larger part of
them, while the Greek fathers were mostly preserved. There is no reason to suppose that, in
the century before the taking of Constantinople, much more was in existence than the scholars
of the Renaissance carried away with them to Italy.

The character of Greek literature sank lower as time went on. It consisted more and more of
compilations, of scholia, of extracts, of commentaries, forgeries, imitations. The commentator
or interpreter had no conception of his author as a whole, and very little of the context of
any passage which he was explaining. The least things were preferred by him to the greatest.
The question of a reading, or a grammatical form, or an accent, or the uses of a word, took
the place of the aim or subject of the book. He had no sense of the beauties of an author,
and very little light is thrown by him on real difficulties. He interprets past ages by his
own. The greatest classical writers are the least appreciated by him. This seems to be the
reason why so many of them have perished, why the lyric poets have almost wholly disappeared;
why, out of the eighty or ninety tragedies of Aeschylus and Sophocles, only seven of each had
been preserved.

Such an age of sciolism and scholasticism may possibly once more get the better of the literary
world. There are those who prophesy that the signs of such a day are again appearing among
us, and that at the end of the present century no writer of the first class will be still alive.
They think that the Muse of Literature may transfer herself to other countries less dried up
or worn out than our own. They seem to see the withering effect of criticism on original genius.
No one can doubt that such a decay or decline of literature and of art seriously affects the
manners and character of a nation. It takes away half the joys and refinements of life; it
increases its dulness and grossness. Hence it becomes a matter of great interest to consider
how, if at all, such a degeneracy may be averted. Is there any elixir which can restore life
and youth to the literature of a nation, or at any rate which can prevent it becoming unmanned
and enfeebled?

First there is the progress of education. It is possible, and even probable, that the extension
of the means of knowledge over a wider area and to persons living under new conditions may
lead to many new combinations of thought and language. But, as yet, experience does not favour
the realization of such a hope or promise. It may be truly answered that at present the training
of teachers and the methods of education are very imperfect, and therefore that we cannot judge
of the future by the present. 

And ANSI, these gentlemen are left to gather é became as he had previously done, in the board
which talked as Dies order to Inca Yupanqui had the fringe of the State they so wished. And
so he agreed Dell Dellos itself and on behalf of themselves, to send Viracocha Inca messengers,
why send him to pray that either had by come to the city of Cuzco, letting him know the new
building of it, which the slack to see: and for them to do unto them mercy and contentment,
had for it to give to your child Inca Yupanqui, who longs to come this coming, the tassel
of the State, as he had disistido Dell and said to the chiefs who had gone to see him, he gave it
disistia Dell and his son Inca Yupanqui, so from then on the é had in his head was placed by
them; which had not wanted to do for him to have respect as his father.

And this ANSI agreed by the lords of the way that you have heard, sent his messengers Viracocha
Inca to where it was populated in the yardarm, which Viracocha Inca, as he saw the embassy The Lord
sent, came to the city of Cuzco, which come, as was known by the Inca, salióle to receive
him at road and saluted him as their Lord and father, and so he went Together we entered the
city. And when Viracocha Inca city so well wrought and built é buildings Dell, and knew [87]
the government order and Inca Yupanqui had put it, anxieties of deposits and the rest, concerning
the good of his country, and love all I had, craves the city as the chiefs and gentlemen, for
the good governance The ruling and grant them to the craving in the presence of all the lords
of Cuzco and chiefs who were there, seeing the magnificence that represented the city and its buildings,
said to Inca Yupanqui Inca Viracocha, "Truly you are a child of the sun, I appoint you king and
Lord. "And he took a puff on his hands, took it out of his own head [88].

And it was a custom among these gentlemen, that when that well is to, the fact that such fringe
I put him on the head to the other, to put it together, I had to name the name, which was
to have from then on. And ANSI, Viracocha Inca, as he put an tassel in head, said: "I name you
today to nominate you yours most other nations é I was subjected, Pachacutec [89] Indichuri
Capac Yupanqui, "which says:" Back in time, King Yupanqui, Son of the Sun "- The Yupanqui is
the lineage é do alcuna they are, because craving is called Manco Capac [90], which had surnamed
Yupanqui.

Inca Yupanqui and ANSI appointed by King and Lord, in the presence of those who were there,
Inca Yupanqui ordered to go there brought a pot that was used, é craves as [91] the level found
bring forth out of the house do this pot without washing, but who craves as was, is the favorable
answer; ANSI é being brought, he ordered that there inchiesen chicha, craves dirty as it was,
é being ANSI full, ordered that the necessary orders to his father
Inca Viracocha, and bade him take craves and so he drank it while
the thing it [drop?].

É seen by Viracocha Inca was anxious what was commanded by the new Lord took her, without her
é answer any thing, just drank chicha, é later that he had drunk, came down and bowed to it
and apologized. Which the new Lord replied that he did not have to forgive, that if they told
the people that he had thrown to kill him when he had gone to see that what he was well satisfied,
that that he had not done it on behalf of the city of Cuzco and of those gentlemen who were present
there, for doing his stuff as a woman, and as it was, that he ought not to drink, but in such
pots as one in which had been drinking. To which the Inca Viracocha was on the floor and tilted
his head to him, and answered from time to time they look forward
to the new Lord was saying, chocayun that says: "My cruel father!"
é "I know my sin"

[92].

É é then he roused him and brought him to his home where he sumptuously
up residence: and then ate the two together, and from then on tried
the new Lord of all honor to him pleasure and contentment.

É then gave the lords of Cuzco in order proveimiento the need for the holidays é sacrifice and
fasting that the Inca had to do, and that's the woman at the party was to receive him. ANSI fact
é É being provided, the Inca went into a room, which for was that sign, and his wife and mother
were put in another, which were fasted but that did not eat corn raw, drink chicha, ten days: and
do the same, the relatives of fasting é della, but walked around the city. By which days were the
lords of Cuzco many and great sacrifices to the idols and buried treasures that were around the
city especially in the Casa del Sol, do large sum of slaughtered cattle, sheep, lambs deer é,
é of all other animals for that party could have, very much sum of birds such as eagles, falcons,
partridges, ostriches, é of all other wild birds they may have, to ducks and other domestic fowl:
and many other animals, tigers, lions, bobcats, foxes ecepto, because with such hatred and
evil have homing instinct, that if when the holidays are like are those who yearn for understanding
in making these sacrifices, what are ominous. "Likewise were killed many children, whom buried
alive é dressed well dressed, which buried two by two, male and female: and with every other
service desto buried much gold and silver, as were plates and bowls and jars, pots and cups
for drinking, with all other duties that an Indian usually married, all of which was gold and
silver, and so he buried the children with all These outfits, which were the sons of chiefs
and principal. And while these sacrifices were made, all of the city were great rejoicings
in the town square.

And these days past, the parents of the girl é other relatives went to the Inca's taking you so
woman before him, dressed in fine clothes made of gold and fine silver, which were dressed prisoners
by the top and along the neck, with four gold pins to two feet long each, which typically weigh
two pounds of gold, and put a tape head gold as wide as a thumb, it seems almost like crown had
tucked "Likewise é waist by a belt woven with fine wool é gold belt in which were many and
varied paintings. He wore another small blanket for cover, ansímismo made of gold and fine
silver, é various tasks, according to their use of dress, wearing shoes on their feet in shoes
gold according to their custom, the bonds which are ansímismo of gold which was very clean é
é combed dressed. É as well do the Inca arrived was, of their parents and relatives prayed the
new Lord Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, who had by good woman received as such their daughter and
debt, and the new Lord, as he saw it was something that agreement and to him belongs, said the
woman so engaged or for: and then there commanded the lords of Cuzco there were that Received by
the so her mistress: and then the parents of the Lady that gave thanks, é lords of Cuzco's received
as such his Lady, to which, then there arose Viracocha Inca, father of the new Lord, and the
embrace and kissed him on one cheek, so did she é to him, and this fact, amused and donation of
certain small towns around there had their heritage. And then the Pachacutec [93] and new Lord
embrace and kissed her as his wife Women é, é offered him and gave him one hundred virgins, women
for their service: and then was carried thence to the Houses of the Sun, which made his sacrifice
there, and the sun gave her, her butler é on behalf fifty other virgins. É out there, and being
already in the houses of the Inca lords of the city you were to offer their gifts, which served
him much service of gold and silver, such as jars of gold and silver, small and large plates and
bowls é and pots and cups for drinking, And many service yanaconas, who spent more than two hundred.

And
this ANSI done, and being the finished parties, Viracocha Inca said
his son was already time will return to his people, because at parties
and rejoicing that they had done, [is had?] took three months, during
which time he had always been there.

The Pachacuti you said they were each as I liked, and being supplied by Inca Yupanqui everything
you need ANSI with supplies as quel everything else in his village had need, broke Inca Viracocha,
which begged Inca Yupanqui, which provided that parties had in Cuzco, come to find them, and
he said he would do, who, each and when that party was in the city, whenever it came to be in them.
Which Viracocha Inca, from then to ten years the coronation of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, with
the quill in his village called Cagua Xaquixahuana [94] that is top of the village of Calca,
seven miles from the city of Cuzco, enjoying himself and rejoicing, ill with some disease, which,
in four months that ill this man Viracocha Inca died, who died when eighty years old.

Which, after death, Inca Yupanqui honored him very much, by bringing his body on a stretcher well decorated,
well ANSI as if alive, to the city of Cuzco, each é when that party had, with honor and respect
him to the lords of Cuzco and to the chiefs, ANSI good as if alive,
in front of which package to sacrifice and burn a lot of sheep lambs
é, é clothing, and maize, coca é, é pour too much chicha, saying that
such bulk ate, and that he was the son of the sun, and quest with
him in heaven.

And he made doing too many packages and many, few gentlemen had happened from Manco Capac to his
father Viracocha Inca and so he made, he issued hiciesen some very gallant wooden benches carved
and painted pintaduras where feathers were attached many different colors. And this ANSI fact
the Lord commanded that these bags were sitting in the seats together with that of his father,
whom he ordered that all honor and reverence as to idols, and that he yearns sacrifices were
made to them as such. Which were placed in their homes, and each and when some gentlemen came
to do the Inca was, they made obeisance to the sun, and then to the package, and then came
to do the Inca was and did the same.

For the slaughter of which said packages and appointed a certain amount of yanaconas é mamaconas,
and gave them that land to sow and desto cojiesen for service packages, and ansímismo said
many cattle for sacrifices that anxiously debian you do, and this service and land and cattle
gave é distributed to each package for himself and ordered that great care had continuously till
night and in the morning, to feed and drink to these packs and sacrifice,
for which command and said that they had every one of these a steward
of such servants who are anxious have said: and these stewards ansímismo
é commanded each by itself, then hiciesen songs; who sing these mamaconas
é yanaconas in praise of the facts that every one of these ANSI Lords
did in his day, which ordinarily songs all the time that parties had
sing each service order and those of its show, first starting to sing
so and history and to praise those of Manco Capac: and it craves,
whether such mamaconas é saying the service, how the Lords had happened
up there, and that this order was that they had from there later,
that memory would like that Dell and its antiquities.

Which é yanaconas Inca Yupanqui ordered service to have their homes and villages and farms in valleys
and villages around the city of Cuzco, and that they and their descendants they had Always be
careful to serve those packages, whom he had given and noted. All of which was eagerly made since
then until today, making it hidden and secret, and some groups, because the Spanish do not understand
what it is. And these are stuck in such packages horon, that are here are barns where corn é check
the other food, and some in pots and large jars, and in wall voids, and in this way they can
not bump.

Á which Inca Yupanqui sent packages when ordered craves put in the seats, they were placed on the
heads a feather headbands very Galán, from which hung a gold earrings and this ANSI fact ansímismo
verifications sent them on their foreheads, to every desto a package, some medallions of gold, and
were always two women mamaconas long red feathers in their hands and sticks tied together, with
which flies oxeasen craves [in] the packages sit down, the service which is hiciese é craves
to these [95] packages, were very clean; é é mamaconas yanaconas that each é when that front
desto lump appears to serve and revere them, é any others they might be, should come very
clean and well dressed with all cleaning é é é compliance were front bow desto such packages.
É this manner, made the Lord in this two things that caused their past were taken and adhered to
by gods, and they have memory of them; which made it understood that the same would make after
his days.

Since Inca Yupanqui saw the Lord in the order and manner and history has told you, é no longer
had to deal with building in the city, after you have loose with own, he ordered all the men of
the city of Cuzco and the other chiefs and leading came together in the square, which were
together ANSI. É still there all, said he, he had news about that city had a lot of very large
number of towns and provinces, é for him, I had strength, it was bad to live on very little, I had
thought and is ordered from that city in two months away, to seek, acquire and hold such people the
and provinces to the city of Cuzco, é remove the names that each of these peoples señorcillo
é provinces had the capacity, and have not had but only a Capac, and that it was him, and
that if the case was that walking in such a conquest, he stumbled on some man with whom he
try his hand and held him, he'd still be glad to serve him, for which he had no fear because
the sun, as Vian, was with him for that day had need of a hundred mill men of war, for those two
months they had together in the city that Cuzco, their weapons and
other proveimientos that they were necessary for this expedition.

To which they replied that they were ready to give him the people and serve as her and ansímismo
would do with their people, they begged him to get the wanted to go, é it was their willingness
to give them the space of three months, because they had need for such time to make such people.

Pachacuti
Inca Yupanqui É dello idled, ordering them to leave all lands in their collection Principal
and stewards, who cast them into the river, each of the dried Cuzco certain glasses of chicha, E
ansímismo give him some of those other cups dried apricots chicha, finjendo who drank the water.
 Many lovers too have loved
the person of a youth before they knew his character or his belongings; so that when their
passion has passed away, there is no knowing whether they will continue to be his friends;
whereas, in the case of non-lovers who were always friends, the friendship is not lessened
by the favours granted; but the recollection of these remains with them, and is an earnest
of good things to come.

Further, I say that you are likely to be improved by me, whereas the lover will spoil you.
For they praise your words and actions in a wrong way; partly, because they are afraid of offending
you, and also, their judgment is weakened by passion. Such are the feats which love exhibits;
he makes things painful to the disappointed which give no pain to others; he compels the successful
lover to praise what ought not to give him pleasure, and therefore the beloved is to be pitied
rather than envied. But if you listen to me, in the first place, I, in my intercourse with
you, shall not merely regard present enjoyment, but also future advantage, being not mastered
by love, but my own master; nor for small causes taking violent dislikes, but even when the
cause is great, slowly laying up little wrath--unintentional offences I shall forgive, and
intentional ones I shall try to prevent; and these are the marks of a friendship which will last.

Do you think that a lover only can be a firm friend? reflect:--if this were true, we should
set small value on sons, or fathers, or mothers; nor should we ever have loyal friends, for
our love of them arises not from passion, but from other associations. Further, if we ought
to shower favours on those who are the most eager suitors,--on that principle, we ought always
to do good, not to the most virtuous, but to the most needy; for they are the persons who will
be most relieved, and will therefore be the most grateful; and when you make a feast you should
invite not your friend, but the beggar and the empty soul; for they will love you, and attend
you, and come about your doors, and will be the best pleased, and the most grateful, and will
invoke many a blessing on your head. Yet surely you ought not to be granting favours to those
who besiege you with prayer, but to those who are best able to reward you; nor to the lover
only, but to those who are worthy of love; nor to those who will enjoy the bloom of your youth,
but to those who will share their possessions with you in age; nor to those who, having succeeded,
will glory in their success to others, but to those who will be modest and tell no tales; nor
to those who care about you for a moment only, but to those who will continue your friends
through life; nor to those who, when their passion is over, will pick a quarrel with you, but
rather to those who, when the charm of youth has left you, will show their own virtue. Remember
what I have said; and consider yet this further point: friends admonish the lover under the
idea that his way of life is bad, but no one of his kindred ever yet censured the non-lover,
or thought that he was ill-advised about his own interests.

'Perhaps you will ask me whether I propose that you should indulge every non-lover. To which
I reply that not even the lover would advise you to indulge all lovers, for the indiscriminate
favour is less esteemed by the rational recipient, and less easily hidden by him who would
escape the censure of the world. Now love ought to be for the advantage of both parties, and
for the injury of neither.

'I believe that I have said enough; but if there is anything more which you desire or which
in your opinion needs to be supplied, ask and I will answer.'

Now, Socrates, what do you think? Is not the discourse excellent, more especially in the matter
of the language?

SOCRATES: Yes, quite admirable; the effect on me was ravishing. And this I owe to you, Phaedrus,
for I observed you while reading to be in an ecstasy, and thinking that you are more experienced
in these matters than I am, I followed your example, and, like you, my divine darling, I became
inspired with a phrenzy.

PHAEDRUS: Indeed, you are pleased to be merry.

SOCRATES: Do you mean that I am not in earnest?

PHAEDRUS: Now don't talk in that way, Socrates, but let me have your real opinion; I adjure
you, by Zeus, the god of friendship, to tell me whether you think that any Hellene could have
said more or spoken better on the same subject.

SOCRATES: Well, but are you and I expected to praise the sentiments of the author, or only
the clearness, and roundness, and finish, and tournure of the language? As to the first I willingly
submit to your better judgment, for I am not worthy to form an opinion, having only attended
to the rhetorical manner; and I was doubting whether this could have been defended even by
Lysias himself; I thought, though I speak under correction, that he repeated himself two or
three times, either from want of words or from want of pains; and also, he appeared to me ostentatiously
to exult in showing how well he could say the same thing in two or three ways.

PHAEDRUS: Nonsense, Socrates; what you call repetition was the especial merit of the speech;
for he omitted no topic of which the subject rightly allowed, and I do not think that any one
could have spoken better or more exhaustively.

SOCRATES: There I cannot go along with you. Ancient sages, men and women, who have spoken and
written of these things, would rise up in judgment against me, if out of complaisance I assented
to you.

PHAEDRUS: Who are they, and where did you hear anything better than this?

SOCRATES: I am sure that I must have heard; but at this moment I do not remember from whom;
perhaps from Sappho the fair, or Anacreon the wise; or, possibly, from a prose writer. Why
do I say so? Why, because I perceive that my bosom is full, and that I could make another speech
as good as that of Lysias, and different. Now I am certain that this is not an invention of
my own, who am well aware that I know nothing, and therefore I can only infer that I have been
filled through the ears, like a pitcher, from the waters of another, though I have actually
forgotten in my stupidity who was my informant.

PHAEDRUS: That is grand:--but never mind where you heard the discourse or from whom; let that
be a mystery not to be divulged even at my earnest desire. Only, as you say, promise to make
another and better oration, equal in length and entirely new, on the same subject; and I, like
the nine Archons, will promise to set up a golden image at Delphi, not only of myself, but
of you, and as large as life. 

We leave these captains and discuss the other two that he sent the Uscovilca ansímismo Andesuyo
part, which is called Yana and Toquello Vilca Vilca [15] whom when give them their Lord Uscovilca
the other party of people, left Paucaray there, to whom, departing, they were commanded by Uscovilca
not arrived to Cuzco with ten leagues, but pasasen sections of, Becausethe Uscovilca wanted
this company in Cuzco for himself. And thus, the Apart from these two masters, getting by
the province of Condesuyo, winning and conquering provinces to arrive at the Chiriguanos, where
we shall leave and discuss Uscovilca.

Which, as hobiese released their four captains in the way you have already heard, and had [16]
great desire for him to go and hold the Cuzco and the Inca Viracocha, taking other third share of
people who left, leaving his land and people with the collection and keep necessary so that if
any of it will prompt you to come back in their care and shelter, - and so he, already done
this and provided, broke with its people and taking their two captains in é looking Viracocha
demand. Which was very still that anxiety, because he not at war
against anyone or tried to take or remove any one for him.

And still ANSI standard of this war that came upon him, came to him two messengers who invia
Uscovilca, by which we mean that winters give obedience, as unto the Lord it was, where not,
to gear, nickel was going to make war, and I thought dalle battle é sujetalle, let him know
Quél Vilcacunga was in, which is seven miles from the city of Cuzco, and it would be rather short
with him. And saw the Inca Viracocha of an embassy that Uscovilca he sent him, and who brought great
power, and everything left behind was subject to him, inviolable say he was happy to give him
obidient, and I wanted to eat and drink with him. Then went they were the messengers of the
city of Cuzco with the embassy of Viracocha Inca, made raise its key and entered into his agreement
to see what to do, because they were as brief Uscovilca couriers, who did not give rise to that
with his apparently take in what was to respond, and so they responded to what you heard, and
then came [17] and being it considered that Uscovilca came with great power of people, and leave proud
and which ANSI giving it so easily, that would be lightly esteemed, and agreed to with the best
chapter the things they were doing to their preservation, but there are still subjective and
therefore would not easily as if they would give, - to be out of this city of Cuzco, Viracocha
with all city ​​people, and most of their neighbors who wished to follow, go to a Penol quest
seven leagues from this city of Cuzco, on top of a village called
Traces, which Penol strong Xahuana Xaqui called Caca [18].

About this time Inca Viracocha had seven children, had one of these least of all, which Inca
Yupanqui was called, and at that time that Viracocha Inca Cuzco wanted out of this his son
Inca Yupanqui, though minor, was a youth of great presumption and a man who had much his person,
and it ill that his father Viracocha Inca to the desmamparar its people and want to give subjetacion
as well as we had promised, it seemed that it was bad case and great shame for the people that
they had desto news, and seeing his orchestra agreed father and the other lords of Cuzco is
out, itself presupposed not to leave him and join the people who could, and since Uscovilca
came, he did not give such obidient, but die before to say who lived
in subjection, and that could bring together so many people happiness
and good fortune be such that the Uscovilca expires, and so they were
liberating their people.

And assuming that ANSI had thought, and went in search of three young men, sons of gentlemen
and his friends, and children of those men with whom his father had entered into consultation it
out and give obedience to the Chanca, - the names of whom were young men, one Vica Quirao [19]
and the other Apo Mayta, and the other Quilescachi Urco Guaranga; - and joining Inca Yupanqui
with these three young men gentlemen, consulted with them what I had thought, and said that
before was due to assume and be glad to receive him in death, not living in such subjection and
infamy, not having been born subjective. And while all four ANSI time, the young men rejoiced
Inca Yupanqui to tell them that, é gave him what word to him to do, and being all four of a review
and Paresce, Viracocha Inca and the city went out for Penol bringing the people of Cuzco, and most
of their neighbors who could carry. Inca Yupanqui and the three youths and those gentlemen, they
stayed in the city with each path servants wanted to stay with them, which is called Pata raised
Yupanqui, and Muru UAnC [20] and Apo Yupanqui, Uxuta Urco Guaranga, which were alone, was not with
them other most outstanding person of his servants. And seen his son Viracocha Inca Yupanqui
was with that purpose, she laughed and ignored much of him, because it took him six children,
and with them the greatest and most beloved of his, who was called
Urco Inca, whom he thought to leave location and name of person.

Known that the Chanca was what he had done Uscovilca Viracocha, decided to send him a captain
of his who was said Guaman Guaraca, that the Inca Viracocha concluded that Paresce, well I
had him, which became captain, and received him very Viracocha While in El Penol Do was. And
the captain for Uscovilca shipped to Viracocha Inca, known how they had been in Cuzco Inca Yupanqui
with the three gentlemen already mentioned, and each a servant to serve, and in order to die
and not be subjective, and known this new by Uscovilca, rejoiced much, because it paresció, who
beat the Inca Yupanqui, son Viracocha Inca and to the three gentlemen who were with him, that
could succeed, and taking them over in Cuzco, dondél came to track. And a captain Deste Uscovilca
called Tomay Guaraca, known the new Deste purpose of Inca Yupanqui, Uscovilca asked his Lord,
do her the favor of this enterprise; Quél wanted to go to Cuzco and to apprehend and kill Inca
Yupanqui and those who were with him. And Uscovilca replied that such an undertaking than that,
that if he wanted, and that he wanted his hand to finish, and then he sent a messenger to his Inca
Yupanqui, by which he sent to say that you were delighted to know that he wanted to try their
strength and courage of youth, who is dressed himself and his family who were with him, which to
three months there wanted to go see him, that because of not to complain, I wanted to give
space three months that he could see best, and so they dress the same weapons and people who
Paresce. For as the Uscovilca hobiese known that Viracocha had been run away from the city of Cuzco,
and brought with him all his people, and the most that could lead from other neighboring villages
to the city of Cuzco, had this Uscovilca that would turn him no part of the Inca Yupanqui, who was
to resist the power that he brought. And since to Inca Yupanqui what say Uscovilca winters,
Quél was answered quickly before he died fighting be subjective, Nascar and had free Quél sir,
and if his father was obidient, which could provide for himself and those with him had there in
the Peñol do was and that he was not in it, but if he was to be Lord of Cuzco and titled as such who
fought with him and overcome him, TERNIA of such renown, and that his father rejoiced hobiese desmamparado
Cuzco and come out of it, being held opinion of himself, which he may never had made Cuzco
and been beaten by anyone since it had founded Mango Capac. And heard their embassy and response got
out of Cuzco, and went to his Lord Uscovilca, who was at that time rejoiced with the gentlemen
who brought them there in the seat Vilcacunga, and hearing by the response Uscovilca Inca Yupanqui
that he winters with his messenger, della rejoiced, because I thought success of Cuzco as I have
heard.

The changa [21] entered into its agreement with the three gentlemen who had them, and agreed to Send
It Viracocha a messenger to his father, which winters will say, that looked disgrace he came
and Cuzco had never been subjective since I had Mango Capac village; parescia him, if he Paresce,
who must defend their city, and not allow Se say that such a thing hobiese desmanparado his people,
and then be given and surrender his enemies, who came to his city, he promised, as his son was
dying front of him, if he craves to return, and defendella for budget had died Quél rather than
of will say that he had left subjet being freed Mr. and being born.

And then he was one of the four young men there had, which was told to carry the embassy already
have heard, which messenger departed and came to where he was Viracocha Inca, and said its
embassy from Inca Yupanqui. And heard for Viracocha Inca your child what invia to say, she
laughed much of an embassy and said: "As a man I communicate and talk to God and known by
him have been advised that I am not part Uscovilca to resist, and being ANSI warned I got out
of Cuzco to better able to order what I do dishonor Uscovilca and mine to mistreatment, and
that boy Inca Yupanqui want to die and I presume that been wrongly decided? I turn and decilde
river of his youth, and that he and his men come I get it, and if they want to do, which I regret,
because my son and want to die development way. "The messenger answered with these words he was
saying Viracocha Inca, that his master budget had that, and that in no way left to die or conquer
it and those with he was before coming into subjection. And to this he replied Inca Viracocha,
which return, and that it was the opinion of his master and his will, which pelease and will make
every power, quentendia that it was to be the end of their battle, it would be a prisoner
dead boy é and without understanding: and to tell them to their masters, Quel not think to go
there and that no so winters will become like an embassy. And it heard by the messenger, broke
your answer to where her master was, and that was reached, told him that his father Viracocha
Inca winters will say in response to your message. All of which is heard by Inca Yupanqui, rescibió
Despite this response, because he thought his father would invest some relief, and as they saw their
neighbors in the quest villages around the city of Cuzco, his father Viracocha Inca succor him
with some help and assistance, for so it would come and would give him such favor the neighbors.

And being so sad he and his family for what you already have heard, it was well parescióle
Send It their messengers to the chiefs of the neighboring villages, informing them of the need
in quest and how he had invia their messengers to his father, which he had not loved Send It no
relief, he begged them with his powers he favoresciesen and people. And this thought ANSI by Inca
Yupanqui, he called those four lads that there had, to those who sent them, and to every one
another, to go with the embassy have learned from the chiefs and gentlemen who longs were around
the city in the space of three leagues, and remains divided (and) by Inca Yupanqui these messengers,
was left alone each to the people and chiefs with the embassy You heard, where, as hobiesen come
to the chiefs and gentlemen, do his master winter, and heard by such chiefs embassy and ask them
invia Inca Yupanqui, answered them these messengers in this way: "Go back, brothers, and tell
your master Inca Yupanqui we call [22] of heart and will, and that he rejoiced in helping
us make that calls and succor to our people and power, but, Paresce us that the power of Uscovilca
Chanca that about him and comes to us, which is great and very large, and as he [did not] have
more people to his person and his companions, and the power they could give and help him ansímismo
was little, and could not help, and if it was perhaps those lifeguard tiniendo no more power to
him until there he was, it would spoil him and them - because ansímismo obidient they were to
give the Chanca, as his father intended to do, whenever and that the Chanca they were requested,
which until there had been for the inviolability Chanca to ask for anything, but it [that] they would
do with him was, that as he looks from somewhere or by any air had so much power some people,
that they were ready ansímismo of help you need and resistance like I wanted to do, which not
only he only played, but to them ansimismo, and to every one for himself: and that ansímismo
inviarian to the other provinces and towns with each confined [23], to ask for its aid and favor,
and with its people and with such aid, who promised he will help and assist each and when
those they saw that he had somewhere to put people in such resistance; which thanked him and prayed
that craves it did, what they would do what ansimismo said had. "All this heard by courier turned
where his master was, to which said the response that you heard. And heard by Inca Yupanqui, rescibió
big penalty by himself alone, and offerings will see that the chiefs were doing it, considering
themselves they had together [24] and asked what was right, quel had some people, with which
that of such chiefs and help that were made [it together]. And being in this sentence, say
it would be about time the sun had set and it grew dark the night, and as it was dark, which
said to his companions and his servants to others, who were all there together as they were, é
none go out with him, and so they just left the room without taking any other them.

Inca Yupanqui was very virtuous and amiable young man in his conversation,
was a man who spoke to be as little boy, é did not laugh too much
so, but with great tact, and very friend to do good to the poor, and
that was chaste youth, who never heard that hobiese known woman, and
she never knew of his time lying and that he should put that thing
that no longer meets.

É as he had these parts of virtue and gallant gentleman, but boy, and was of great courage,
considering his father to the Inca Yupanqui be his son, reigned envy aborresciale it and,
because I want an older child of his, who was said Urco Inca, had this being of Inca Yupanqui,
and as he saw that this virtue reign in Inca Yupanqui, not consented who might set up in front
of him, and gave occasion to that no one knows him that loved him because as he saw that I had such
great parties, feared that his days after the lords of Cuzco the other community é hikes you this
for that Lord, and that leave to Inca aunquél Urco by as Lord, these gentlemen would deprive
Deste state to see it was something simple and that all was not it that capacity and be that Inca
Yupanqui, which everyone loved strong will, as we have heard.

É as the Inca Viracocha Urco wanted to leave in place after his days, at which might make him
the lords of the city of Cuzco and the other people that always respected that made him, and
yearns to serve and that will serve him with the lords of Cuzco the real insinias his person
were doing, they were, that before the parescia not none, lord it
was, nor any of his brothers, with shoes on their feet, but barefoot
and heads down the whole time they were talking in front of or to
fetch him some some message, he ate alone, no one dared to lay hands
on the silver chelated ate, brought in litter and shoulders of lords,
if came into the place, sat in the seat of gold had made tyrosol ostrich
feather dyed red, drank in golden vessels, and others were ansímismo
Service vessels of his house, gold, had many women, of all which was
very Ageno Inca Yupanqui, being, as you heard, hated by his father,
and have love to Inca Urco.

And so when he saw Inca Viracocha Inca Yupanqui had stayed in the city of Cuzco, dello rejoiced,
thinking that would end his days there, and when he sent him to ask for relief You heard, he
would not help.

É Inca Yupanqui away from their companions the night and history has told you, say he went
to do some part any of his seeing him, the space of two deep shots of the city, and that there
was in prayer to the Maker of all things, which they call Pachayachachic Viracocha, and Quest
in their prayer, which said it this way: "Lord God you made me be a man gave é, help me in
this need that I am, as you My Father, and you gave me together and being and as a man, do not
let me be killed by my enemies, please give me against them, do not let that I'm biased of them;
and as you love me made thee free and only subjective, I'm biased let this people who craves me
subjective and want to put in bondage, give me, Lord, Podell power to resist, and beam me thy
will, for I am yours. "É when [25] these reasons he said, crying all the decisions heart. É
being in his prayer, he fell asleep, being overcome sleep, and Questar
in your dream, came to him the figure of Viracocha in man, and he
said, "Son, do not grieve, I will send you, the day that thou art
to battle your enemies, people with that disrupt and stay victorious.

"

E Inca Yupanqui then recalled dream Deste serious and wanted amanescer hour, Deste as sleep
was gay, took courage, and went to his, and he told them were happy, because he was, and that
he had no fear that they would not be vanquished their enemies, Terni is the hobiese people
when necessary, and meant them no more, no other things to do, or how, or where, although they
questioned him. And there later, every night away from his teammates and went to the site
do their prayers had been done, he always continued to do nothing less than the first time
he did, and not for him every night the dream came the first.

But that night the latter end, Questar him in his prayer, that around him Viracocha in figure
man, and while awake, and he said, "Son, tomorrow I see us enemies to battle, and I will succor
to people, so that disruption and stay victorious. "And the next day morning, Uscovilca say down with
his people by Carminga [Carmenca] down, a hill standing on the lowered
to the city of Cuzco, going from the city of Los Reyes, and as descended
this Uscovilca with all his power and people, who peeked twenty squadrons
of people do not view or conosca by Inca Yupanqui and his own, which
people looked out the Collasuyo and the path of Asha, and by the way
Condesuyo, and how to get these people to do Inca Yupanqui was, which
was looking to his companions how he descended to his enemies, and
as he reached him that in his favor came, took him in the middle saying,
Apu Inca Capac aucaccata atipullac chaymiccanqui China (?) Punchaupi
[26], which says: "Come on, just king, and defeat your enemies, now
you on this day triples prisoners, "and can not wait they went to
the people who came Uscovilca all boil down hills, and finding, locked
his battle and fought from morning, which was when they got together,
up to half day, and was in such a way the battle, that people died
very large amount Uscovilca of people, and none was taken to hand
that would not die.



SOCRATES: But where is the fair youth whom I was addressing before, and who ought to listen
now; lest, if he hear me not, he should accept a non-lover before he knows what he is doing?

PHAEDRUS: He is close at hand, and always at your service.

SOCRATES: Know then, fair youth, that the former discourse was the word of Phaedrus, the son
of Vain Man, who dwells in the city of Myrrhina (Myrrhinusius). And this which I am about to
utter is the recantation of Stesichorus the son of Godly Man (Euphemus), who comes from the
town of Desire (Himera), and is to the following effect: 'I told a lie when I said' that the
beloved ought to accept the non-lover when he might have the lover, because the one is sane,
and the other mad. And I might also tell you how the Sibyl and other inspired persons have
given to many an one many an intimation of the future which has saved them from falling. But
it would be tedious to speak of what every one knows.

There will be more reason in appealing to the ancient inventors of names (compare Cratylus),
who would never have connected prophecy (mantike) which foretells the future and is the noblest
of arts, with madness (manike), or called them both by the same name, if they had deemed madness
to be a disgrace or dishonour;--they must have thought that there was an inspired madness which
was a noble thing; for the two words, mantike and manike, are really the same, and the letter
tau is only a modern and tasteless insertion. And this is confirmed by the name which was given
by them to the rational investigation of futurity, whether made by the help of birds or of
other signs--this, for as much as it is an art which supplies from the reasoning faculty mind
(nous) and information (istoria) to human thought (oiesis) they originally termed oionoistike,
but the word has been lately altered and made sonorous by the modern introduction of the letter
Omega (oionoistike and oionistike), and in proportion as prophecy (mantike) is more perfect
and august than augury, both in name and fact, in the same proportion, as the ancients testify,
is madness superior to a sane mind (sophrosune) for the one is only of human, but the other
of divine origin. Again, where plagues and mightiest woes have bred in certain families, owing
to some ancient blood-guiltiness, there madness has entered with holy prayers and rites, and
by inspired utterances found a way of deliverance for those who are in need; and he who has
part in this gift, and is truly possessed and duly out of his mind, is by the use of purifications
and mysteries made whole and exempt from evil, future as well as present, and has a release
from the calamity which was afflicting him.

I might tell of many other noble deeds which have sprung from inspired madness. And therefore,
let no one frighten or flutter us by saying that the temperate friend is to be chosen rather
than the inspired, but let him further show that love is not sent by the gods for any good
to lover or beloved; if he can do so we will allow him to carry off the palm. And we, on our
part, will prove in answer to him that the madness of love is the greatest of heaven's blessings,
and the proof shall be one which the wise will receive, and the witling disbelieve. But first
of all, let us view the affections and actions of the soul divine and human, and try to ascertain
the truth about them. The beginning of our proof is as follows:--

(Translated by Cic. Tus. Quaest.) The soul through all her being is immortal, for that which
is ever in motion is immortal; but that which moves another and is moved by another, in ceasing
to move ceases also to live. Only the self-moving, never leaving self, never ceases to move,
and is the fountain and beginning of motion to all that moves besides. Now, the beginning is
unbegotten, for that which is begotten has a beginning; but the beginning is begotten of nothing,
for if it were begotten of something, then the begotten would not come from a beginning. But
if unbegotten, it must also be indestructible; for if beginning were destroyed, there could
be no beginning out of anything, nor anything out of a beginning; and all things must have
a beginning. And therefore the self-moving is the beginning of motion; and this can neither
be destroyed nor begotten, else the whole heavens and all creation would collapse and stand
still, and never again have motion or birth. But if the self-moving is proved to be immortal,
he who affirms that self-motion is the very idea and essence of the soul will not be put to
confusion. For the body which is moved from without is soulless; but that which is moved from
within has a soul, for such is the nature of the soul. But if this be true, must not the soul
be the self-moving, and therefore of necessity unbegotten and immortal? Enough of the soul's
immortality. I will endeavour to explain to you in what way the mortal differs from the immortal
creature. The soul in her totality has the care of inanimate being everywhere, and traverses
the whole heaven in divers forms appearing--when perfect and fully winged she soars upward,
and orders the whole world; whereas the imperfect soul, losing her wings and drooping in her
flight at last settles on the solid ground--there, finding a home, she receives an earthly
frame which appears to be self-moved, but is really moved by her power; and this composition
of soul and body is called a living and mortal creature. For immortal no such union can be
reasonably believed to be; although fancy, not having seen nor surely known the nature of God,
may imagine an immortal creature having both a body and also a soul which are united throughout
all time. Let that, however, be as God wills, and be spoken of acceptably to him. And now let
us ask the reason why the soul loses her wings!

The wing is the corporeal element which is most akin to the divine, and which by nature tends
to soar aloft and carry that which gravitates downwards into the upper region, which is the
habitation of the gods. The divine is beauty, wisdom, goodness, and the like; and by these
the wing of the soul is nourished, and grows apace; but when fed upon evil and foulness and
the opposite of good, wastes and falls away. Zeus, the mighty lord, holding the reins of a
winged chariot, leads the way in heaven, ordering all and taking care of all; and there follows
him the array of gods and demi-gods, marshalled in eleven bands; Hestia alone abides at home
in the house of heaven; of the rest they who are reckoned among the princely twelve march in
their appointed order. They see many blessed sights in the inner heaven, and there are many
ways to and fro, along which the blessed gods are passing, every one doing his own work; he
may follow who will and can, for jealousy has no place in the celestial choir. But when they
go to banquet and festival, then they move up the steep to the top of the vault of heaven.
The chariots of the gods in even poise, obeying the rein, glide rapidly; but the others labour,
for the vicious steed goes heavily, weighing down the charioteer to the earth when his steed
has not been thoroughly trained:--and this is the hour of agony and extremest conflict for
the soul. For the immortals, when they are at the end of their course, go forth and stand upon
the outside of heaven, and the revolution of the spheres carries them round, and they behold
the things beyond. But of the heaven which is above the heavens, what earthly poet ever did
or ever will sing worthily? It is such as I will describe; for I must dare to speak the truth,
when truth is my theme. There abides the very being with which true knowledge is concerned;
the colourless, formless, intangible essence, visible only to mind, the pilot of the soul.
The divine intelligence, being nurtured upon mind and pure knowledge, and the intelligence
of every soul which is capable of receiving the food proper to it, rejoices at beholding reality,
and once more gazing upon truth, is replenished and made glad, until the revolution of the
worlds brings her round again to the same place. In the revolution she beholds justice, and
temperance, and knowledge absolute, not in the form of generation or of relation, which men
call existence, but knowledge absolute in existence absolute; and beholding the other true
existences in like manner, and feasting upon them, she passes down into the interior of the
heavens and returns home; and there the charioteer putting up his horses at the stall, gives
them ambrosia to eat and nectar to drink.

Such is the life of the gods; but of other souls, that which follows God best and is likest
to him lifts the head of the charioteer into the outer world, and is carried round in the revolution,
troubled indeed by the steeds, and with difficulty beholding true being; while another only
rises and falls, and sees, and again fails to see by reason of the unruliness of the steeds.
The rest of the souls are also longing after the upper world and they all follow, but not being
strong enough they are carried round below the surface, plunging, treading on one another,
each striving to be first; and there is confusion and perspiration and the extremity of effort;
and many of them are lamed or have their wings broken through the ill-driving of the charioteers;
and all of them after a fruitless toil, not having attained to the mysteries of true being,
go away, and feed upon opinion. The reason why the souls exhibit this exceeding eagerness to
behold the plain of truth is that pasturage is found there, which is suited to the highest
part of the soul; and the wing on which the soul soars is nourished with this. And there is
a law of Destiny, that the soul which attains any vision of truth in company with a god is
preserved from harm until the next period, and if attaining always is always unharmed. But
when she is unable to follow, and fails to behold the truth, and through some ill-hap sinks
beneath the double load of forgetfulness and vice, and her wings fall from her and she drops
to the ground, then the law ordains that this soul shall at her first birth pass, not into
any other animal, but only into man; and the soul which has seen most of truth shall come to
the birth as a philosopher, or artist, or some musical and loving nature; that which has seen
truth in the second degree shall be some righteous king or warrior chief; the soul which is
of the third class shall be a politician, or economist, or trader; the fourth shall be a lover
of gymnastic toils, or a physician; the fifth shall lead the life of a prophet or hierophant;
to the sixth the character of poet or some other imitative artist will be assigned; to the
seventh the life of an artisan or husbandman; to the eighth that of a sophist or demagogue;
to the ninth that of a tyrant--all these are states of probation, in which he who does righteously
improves, and he who does unrighteously, deteriorates his lot.

Ten thousand years must elapse before the soul of each one can return to the place from whence
she came, for she cannot grow her wings in less; only the soul of a philosopher, guileless
and true, or the soul of a lover, who is not devoid of philosophy, may acquire wings in the
third of the recurring periods of a thousand years; he is distinguished from the ordinary good
man who gains wings in three thousand years:--and they who choose this life three times in
succession have wings given them, and go away at the end of three thousand years. But the others
(The philosopher alone is not subject to judgment (krisis), for he has never lost the vision
of truth.) receive judgment when they have completed their first life, and after the judgment
they go, some of them to the houses of correction which are under the earth, and are punished;
others to some place in heaven whither they are lightly borne by justice, and there they live
in a manner worthy of the life which they led here when in the form of men. And at the end
of the first thousand years the good souls and also the evil souls both come to draw lots and
choose their second life, and they may take any which they please. The soul of a man may pass
into the life of a beast, or from the beast return again into the man. But the soul which has
never seen the truth will not pass into the human form. For a man must have intelligence of
universals, and be able to proceed from the many particulars of sense to one conception of
reason;--this is the recollection of those things which our soul once saw while following God--when
regardless of that which we now call being she raised her head up towards the true being. And
he who employs aright these memories is ever being initiated into perfect mysteries and alone
becomes truly perfect. But, as he forgets earthly interests and is rapt in the divine, the
vulgar deem him mad, and rebuke him; they do not see that he is inspired.

But of beauty, I repeat again that we saw her there shining in company with the celestial forms;
and coming to earth we find her here too, shining in clearness through the clearest aperture
of sense. For sight is the most piercing of our bodily senses; though not by that is wisdom
seen; her loveliness would have been transporting if there had been a visible image of her,
and the other ideas, if they had visible counterparts, would be equally lovely. But this is
the privilege of beauty, that being the loveliest she is also the most palpable to sight. There is no presumption that he is hopelessly love you.
Neither do men fall in love suddenly. What is likely, almost certainly, Condesito is that I found
beautiful, graceful and elegant, have imagined that you are good and you are well educated,
in which no mistakes, and I admire and attracted to you curious sympathy and other sinful desires
and thoughts. I grant, moreover, that the young Count, with its arrogance, which is great,
is promised triumphs and victories that make you favor. Well, this is the foundation of a flirt.
Care not to frighten those sympathies by putting springs stick side; matter curb undue expectations
and daring is necessary to tame with due respect at all irreverent purpose, and should finally
attract the Condesito, to see if he loves you and you love him.

- But I do not love him.

- I know you dont love him.

Did not I say? He loves you or not. But nobody ever gonna love you no you love anyone if you
keep going? How did you go to if you love as if it were bony Croaker?

Inesita almost felt defeated. Her sister continued to make very wise and deep reflection, the girl
came to hallucinate and imagine that flirtation, within certain limits, was a duty, which was
missing. Inesita promised, then follow the advice of her sister far, no violence, he could,
and be a little flirty, with dignity and would learn the art.

Doña Beatriz certainly gave the following night at the Buen Retiro, would find the little Count,
he would be persecuted and have occasion to show his ability Inesita, untested for flirtation.

According
to Beatriz, all paper Inesita the next night was just saying with
the eyes, lazy style and clear, however, with such art that seem thoughtless
phrase and spontaneous, with impeccable purity and simplicity of intention
and without promising anything to pass friend: "Me you nice, although
I deplore it as much as you are a fool.

 But when she is parted from her beloved and her moisture
fails, then the orifices of the passage out of which the wing shoots dry up and close, and
intercept the germ of the wing; which, being shut up with the emotion, throbbing as with the
pulsations of an artery, pricks the aperture which is nearest, until at length the entire soul
is pierced and maddened and pained, and at the recollection of beauty is again delighted. And
from both of them together the soul is oppressed at the strangeness of her condition, and is
in a great strait and excitement, and in her madness can neither sleep by night nor abide in
her place by day. And wherever she thinks that she will behold the beautiful one, thither in
her desire she runs. And when she has seen him, and bathed herself in the waters of beauty,
her constraint is loosened, and she is refreshed, and has no more pangs and pains; and this
is the sweetest of all pleasures at the time, and is the reason why the soul of the lover will
never forsake his beautiful one, whom he esteems above all; he has forgotten mother and brethren
and companions, and he thinks nothing of the neglect and loss of his property; the rules and
proprieties of life, on which he formerly prided himself, he now despises, and is ready to
sleep like a servant, wherever he is allowed, as near as he can to his desired one, who is
the object of his worship, and the physician who can alone assuage the greatness of his pain.
And this state, my dear imaginary youth to whom I am talking, is by men called love, and among
the gods has a name at which you, in your simplicity, may be inclined to mock; there are two
lines in the apocryphal writings of Homer in which the name occurs. One of them is rather outrageous,
and not altogether metrical. They are as follows:

'Mortals call him fluttering love, But the immortals call him winged one, Because the growing
of wings (Or, reading pterothoiton, 'the movement of wings.') is a necessity to him.'

You may believe this, but not unless you like. At any rate the loves of lovers and their causes
are such as I have described.

Now the lover who is taken to be the attendant of Zeus is better able to bear the winged god,
and can endure a heavier burden; but the attendants and companions of Ares, when under the
influence of love, if they fancy that they have been at all wronged, are ready to kill and
put an end to themselves and their beloved. And he who follows in the train of any other god,
while he is unspoiled and the impression lasts, honours and imitates him, as far as he is able;
and after the manner of his God he behaves in his intercourse with his beloved and with the
rest of the world during the first period of his earthly existence. Every one chooses his love
from the ranks of beauty according to his character, and this he makes his god, and fashions
and adorns as a sort of image which he is to fall down and worship. The followers of Zeus desire
that their beloved should have a soul like him; and therefore they seek out some one of a philosophical
and imperial nature, and when they have found him and loved him, they do all they can to confirm
such a nature in him, and if they have no experience of such a disposition hitherto, they learn
of any one who can teach them, and themselves follow in the same way. And they have the less
difficulty in finding the nature of their own god in themselves, because they have been compelled
to gaze intensely on him; their recollection clings to him, and they become possessed of him,
and receive from him their character and disposition, so far as man can participate in God.
The qualities of their god they attribute to the beloved, wherefore they love him all the more,
and if, like the Bacchic Nymphs, they draw inspiration from Zeus, they pour out their own fountain
upon him, wanting to make him as like as possible to their own god. But those who are the followers
of Here seek a royal love, and when they have found him they do just the same with him; and
in like manner the followers of Apollo, and of every other god walking in the ways of their
god, seek a love who is to be made like him whom they serve, and when they have found him,
they themselves imitate their god, and persuade their love to do the same, and educate him
into the manner and nature of the god as far as they each can; for no feelings of envy or jealousy
are entertained by them towards their beloved, but they do their utmost to create in him the
greatest likeness of themselves and of the god whom they honour. Thus fair and blissful to
the beloved is the desire of the inspired lover, and the initiation of which I speak into the
mysteries of true love, if he be captured by the lover and their purpose is effected. Now the
beloved is taken captive in the following manner:--

As I said at the beginning of this tale, I divided each soul into three--two horses and a charioteer;
and one of the horses was good and the other bad: the division may remain, but I have not yet
explained in what the goodness or badness of either consists, and to that I will now proceed.

And so the beloved who, like a god, has received every true and loyal service from his lover,
not in pretence but in reality, being also himself of a nature friendly to his admirer, if
in former days he has blushed to own his passion and turned away his lover, because his youthful
companions or others slanderously told him that he would be disgraced, now as years advance,
at the appointed age and time, is led to receive him into communion. For fate which has ordained
that there shall be no friendship among the evil has also ordained that there shall ever be
friendship among the good. And the beloved when he has received him into communion and intimacy,
is quite amazed at the good-will of the lover; he recognises that the inspired friend is worth
all other friends or kinsmen; they have nothing of friendship in them worthy to be compared
with his. And when this feeling continues and he is nearer to him and embraces him, in gymnastic
exercises and at other times of meeting, then the fountain of that stream, which Zeus when
he was in love with Ganymede named Desire, overflows upon the lover, and some enters into his
soul, and some when he is filled flows out again; and as a breeze or an echo rebounds from
the smooth rocks and returns whence it came, so does the stream of beauty, passing through
the eyes which are the windows of the soul, come back to the beautiful one; there arriving
and quickening the passages of the wings, watering them and inclining them to grow, and filling
the soul of the beloved also with love. And thus he loves, but he knows not what; he does not
understand and cannot explain his own state; he appears to have caught the infection of blindness
from another; the lover is his mirror in whom he is beholding himself, but he is not aware
of this. When he is with the lover, both cease from their pain, but when he is away then he
longs as he is longed for, and has love's image, love for love (Anteros) lodging in his breast,
which he calls and believes to be not love but friendship only, and his desire is as the desire
of the other, but weaker; he wants to see him, touch him, kiss him, embrace him, and probably
not long afterwards his desire is accomplished. When they meet, the wanton steed of the lover
has a word to say to the charioteer; he would like to have a little pleasure in return for
many pains, but the wanton steed of the beloved says not a word, for he is bursting with passion
which he understands not;--he throws his arms round the lover and embraces him as his dearest
friend; and, when they are side by side, he is not in a state in which he can refuse the lover
anything, if he ask him; although his fellow-steed and the charioteer oppose him with the arguments
of shame and reason. After this their happiness depends upon their self-control; if the better
elements of the mind which lead to order and philosophy prevail, then they pass their life
here in happiness and harmony--masters of themselves and orderly--enslaving the vicious and
emancipating the virtuous elements of the soul; and when the end comes, they are light and
winged for flight, having conquered in one of the three heavenly or truly Olympian victories;
nor can human discipline or divine inspiration confer any greater blessing on man than this.
If, on the other hand, they leave philosophy and lead the lower life of ambition, then probably,
after wine or in some other careless hour, the two wanton animals take the two souls when off
their guard and bring them together, and they accomplish that desire of their hearts which
to the many is bliss; and this having once enjoyed they continue to enjoy, yet rarely because
they have not the approval of the whole soul. They too are dear, but not so dear to one another
as the others, either at the time of their love or afterwards. They consider that they have
given and taken from each other the most sacred pledges, and they may not break them and fall
into enmity. At last they pass out of the body, unwinged, but eager to soar, and thus obtain
no mean reward of love and madness. And this fact,
will lower the novel and its relatives as the guaca, and come on to the city and bring novel that
straw, and erect, hands: and being anxiously in the city, the novel wear a T-shirt colorful and with
a white list of bottom-up by the shirt, with some flocadura according to the top of the shirt,
and put it on his head a red ribbon with a list of any color, and ANSI standard, descapulario
put it that way in the back, and from there, go to a morning guaca I point out, which is called
Anaguarque and arrivals there, make their sacrifice by giving some chicha and before her a
fire, fire which offered some coca é corn and tallow: and when anxiously outside, relatives
carried this novel, which sponsors almost want to imitate, some big and tall halberds of gold
and silver and now the sacrifice made, tie at the top, in the irons WITH THESE halberds, that straw
in the eager hands are hanging [of] such iron wool that hangs ANSI straw, and being tied ANSI
and this straw, give each of his novel a halberd WITH THESE in their hands, and this has already
been done, to all these novel júntenlos there shall be found and send them From there they ran all
together with their halberds in their hands, as well ANSI were following range of enemies, and
this is from the guaca run up a hill do it seems this city, [t] are there in this site, to
see true and [safe?] how come these gentlemen novice run, and who is he that will END the first
run, and this honor it as their own and give some thing and say that he did as good orejon, é Give
him Guaman surname, which says "hawk", and these such that anxiously extremaren when dried
apricots were made, are known, when the city of Cuzco hath war, rise to the Penoles, as lighter,
é fight with enemies.

And the next day out of the city, and I point out another guaca ansímismo,
which will be called guaca Yavir, which will be the idol of the grant:
and when he is in it, do make a big fire offer to this guaca é é é
sun these sheep lambs, first by slitting their throats, blood which
will be made a mark with great reverence for faces, as it takes to
ear to ear, and offer ansímismo to this fire much corn and coca, which
is made all with great reverence and observance, offering the sun,
and asked where these newcomers, é each for himself, which will increase
prosperity and their cattle, and the look and free from any evil comes
your way.

And it finished, he will be sworn each for himself, before the idol, ternate always careful
to comply with and revere the sun and worked their land, and be obedient to the Inca and always
treat you right and be loyal vassals and not treat treason é that each and when you know that
makes it treason to some Inca, demonstrations and tell him; é that the same will be loyal
to the city of Cuzco, and that each and when the Inca is at war or the city of Cuzco, who
served with his services, and weapons in this war, and who will die Dell and the Inca defense.

And
this jury, the man who abide in the guaca there, before whom the oath so, he will answer in name and
place of the sun and of the idol, who thanks him, and that he craves the right: and that say
that the sun has by property that is auqui [52], which says "gentleman." And this fact, that
such render thanks for this novel around the sun, and then you wear a shirt there too painted
and you put a blanket very painted over, all of which is fine clothes, and hang him ears a
large gold earrings dangling, tied with red thread, and to put a scallop of large golden breasts,
and shoes that fit cattail, put it é head very painted tape, called Pillaca llaut, that you
put tape over Desta a paten of gold, and until there's no waiter
may get, and that if that thing be there forget to put it, was never
able to put in their days.

And this fact, the market tends arms to this novel, é those relatives who go there with him as
sponsors, getting some stripes on the arms with a deep, that you remember and has memory The
oath that there does and worship that she was done. And this fact, ANSI fall together to the
square of this city, I long dresses and adorned as we were, where they will find them all the
lords of Cuzco dresses a long and colorful shirts to give them to their feet, which they have
on their heads mesmos [skins of lions with their faces] [53], and the faces desto lions have in
film speak [54] of his own, which have lion heads ansímismo golden ears: and ansímismo have to
have these gentlemen get on the square ANSI are four drums of gold.

É as novices get into the place, get in the wing to the bottom, the faces towards do the sun rises,
and since has looked forward, knelt halberds craves bring on the floor, each one before him.
And as this is done, the gentlemen who are there, begin their singing and touch the drums,
and after having sung and holgádose, sit in a line as long for all are, and drink every two glasses
of chicha and two ansímismo offered to the sun, spilling before their halberds, and dende little,
get up and sing around her, in which song have to give great praise to the sun and beg his people
and to save and increase his novel; and this song ended, he relapsed into drinking. And this have
to do thirty days from the day you start .-- Y every night in this way are snug chicha, because
their main joy in all their works and things to do, it's okay to drink, and the more drink,
more, sir, because they opportunity to do so.

É ordered these thirty days of age, came together in the square where relatives desto the junior
novels and a favorable answer it there, kneeling E halberd, and when they were in standing, with
hands tomasen the halberd, and so he, stretched out his arms, family members should give them
with a sling on them, that they might report were agreed Desta é party, and that this fact
there were a source to say Calixpucquiu [55], which says "the source of Calix [56] and being
already there, to wash all, to which source they want to go as dark. É ANSI being washed, Hansen wear
other shirts precious, and so they dressed, their relatives stone them with a prickly pear [57],
and every parent, I long as I have stoned with the tunas, they are obliged to provide such novel
certain pieces of jewelry and clothing, and give him ansímismo, desto
finally, to every one of this novel, a sling.

And this is done, every one of these novel must return to his house, whose house is to find
very clean, and very good fire made in it and all their relatives and relatives in it, and
then have to take the four pitchers of chicha they did in the beginning of the feast, which pitchers
have to drink all, and this novel have such imbriagar with chicha so that no [58] makes sense, and
as soon and this longing, hanle to take the room, and where they best they seem good, there shall
bore ears. And tomorrow's another day, go all the novice to the place all together in order
While fighting and ANSI as if to give battle, with their slings in their hands and necks to
bags of networks, which bring many Chinese, and put out as much of a another in the plaza, begin
to battle, which must give battle to the end that they need to understand craves have to fight with
their enemies. In this manner I think it must be these cirimonias, and on this art ordered
triple [in] doing the apricots and not what has been hitherto.

Heard by the Lords what he had ordered Inca Yupanqui, said that was fine ordered and thought,
so there were being put to forward, and to tell them that since when I wanted to begin this party?
He told them that there could be thirty days to begin because that's where do we begin the month
of the year was beginning, and they begged him that because so there had been no order to do
knew the year and the months that had [for good?] signals and the recital of which begun, and the
names of those months. And Ynca I replied that that party after the sun, he had thought of
giving in that order; more, because they invited him to the charms and signs (and) that he wanted
to do that grace: and that at present there was no place for them to account for this, because I thought
identify and sort such months in the other parties in that they all
rejoice é hiciesen their sacrifices, that from thence to ten days,
I would say that the order that had to have é parties they were to
gay and sacrifices that had to ANSI.

And that said, out of their agreement he and the other gentlemen, which were each to his inn,
where began to give orders to their parties, which have heard that from then to thirty days
were to start, which thirty days ago, made his party the way they have heard; dende and then
I continued to do in the way and that, until this year we are of fifteen hundred and fifty-one
years .-- The party and the other that the Lord established, although the wish to remove in this
city of Cuzco, the often hidden or secret they do in villages which are surrounding the city
of Cuzco.

After that were the ten days Inca Yupanqui Messrs. said that after those came together with him
again, which together had to tell them the order that they asked ANSI that would make the year
and months and the more parties that they had to have and keep, Inca Yupanqui told them he
had many years he had imagined the months and time of year, which had found that they were twelve
and I did not think saying a desto twelve months and times thing, but it was good as were going
ANSI and such parties that they had them He was to pose, but because they had asked, he wanted
to ask what (So) and say and declare the parties and the sacrifices that those months were
to ANSI do, they were attentive and the tomasen firmly in mind, that besides this, I look
forward mesmo I had thought of doing a certain thing he called Pachaunanchango, which means "knower
time "[59] - we can presume Relox - by which they and their descendants, and they lost track of the
months, you would understand when the time of sowing, labor é, é
dressing their land.

And ANSI, the lords being attentive, Inca Yupanqui said unto them this coming month, in which
have to make the pears, as I have told you, that's where the year begins, we shall call and
has called Pucuy quillaimi [60], which is our December, and January called Coyquis has time,
and one month called Ccollappoccoyquis Hebrero [61] and the March call Pachapoccoyquis [62] and
as of April Ayrihuaquis [63] and the month of May called Aymorayquis Keel [64]. In this month was
ordered é Inca Yupanqui that it should be another party in the sun very solene, in which hiciesen
great sacrifices in order to quel the earth had given them and corn that she had, and that
since then began to fuck their maize, were to begin the party and last until at the end of June,
and that in the month of June, which called Hatun cosqui quillan, than in December last year
were ordered apricots in aquesta party constituted in the month of June, to dress shirts woven
of gold and silver and iridescent feathers, and can not wait posts
patens é their feathers and gold bracelets, saliesen to this feast,
and that at this event should give an end to their fasting and sacrifices,
since they were sorted apricots until there had been, and there began
to rejoice and celebrate another constituted craves to be had by Simentera
sun, to which party ANSI starting from May until late June, as we
have heard, called and appointed Yahuarincha aymoray [65].

Which sent party that was done in the square is the agora do espital in Cuzco, which is at the
outlet of this city, do call Rimacpampa, to which party had Messrs. dresses out of the city of a red
shirt that gave up feet, in which party ordered it hiciesen great sacrifices to idols, do they
burn many cattle slaughtered é é é food clothing, and in such guacas were offered many gold
and silver jewelry.

As of July was called Cahuarquis [66], which ordered that no party will do him no, most of them
said this month they were to irrigate their land, were to begin é plant their corn and potatoes
and quinoa [67] until the month of September came out é, and August Capacsiquis called [68],
and the month of September called Cituaiquis [69]. This month say that it was Inca Yupanqui hiciesen
two parties, one almost wants to look to which we do in San Juan, because they rise at midnight
and washed until rie day, and have some torches lit, and after being washed, these torches danse in
the back, and throw himself say that any ill health and bad they have. É the other party is [T]
he called the Inca Yupanqui Purappucquiu [70], [é] é ansímismo sent the to do this month, which
he commanded that they should do to the water, the hiciesen E ansímismo sacrifices and these sacrifices
commanded that offered a lot of clothes and sheep and coca, and that in any few herbs and plants that
were in the fields, flowers Dellas favorable answer, all of which commanded offered the waters
in this way: them to take plenty of clothes and cast them in that River of Cuzco in the do the two
rivers meet, that many sheep and a favorable answer ansímismo lamb and to offer them water,
and decapitated in that place do the clothes were cast, and then that would make a great fire there
which burnt these sheep and lambs, the ciniza é of those eager burned, cast into the water at
that very site, and then after that, cast into the river and the
flowers have heard: and after this, he cast them into the water that
lot of ground coca é shredded.

And after that was coming down when the sun set [71], in a site, which was sure standing in a part
where it could be good to see, and so they like knew from that site do it stop, the course
would do when the sun was coming down in that right at the top of the hills, make four pyramids
made of stone or marble, amid the two smaller than the other two sides, and two states altor
each pictures, and section one another a fathom, except that the two small middle became more
together, one to the other half will breaststroke. And when the sun came out, still do a job
Inca Yupanqui stopped to watch and gauge this right, gets out and is on the right and middle
desto two pillars, and when it sets, the same thing, do the turns, through which the common
people I was understanding that it was time, I look forward to planting, as to catch, because
the clocks were four to do the sun came out, and four to do was setting the course do not differ
and movements so the sun does in the year. Erros the Inca Yupanqui in the month to take to come
to one and to our mind the months of the year that craves said, because he took December January
having to make, but at last he learned to understand and give orders to his republic.

After they had done é Inca Yupanqui given orders in the year and months and festivals that he
were to hold, and made clocks, recreating and having loose on the things that you have heard time
and space of two years, which the Lord spent time to stand on its people, because natural and chiefs
who were subject to him they had space and time to idle work on their land that had been in
the repair craves had done in streams the city of Cuzco, they had space because they desired
é é é take time to plant large fields, with which they repaired all meals and provision, with
which they had é to serve and contribute to the city of Cuzco and to the deposits in it were,
it seems rescibia already his services, and any other penalty for both ANSI had idleness he and
others ajuntóse a day with the main city of Cuzco and said unto them already had idleness that
seemed that it was time for the caciques and gentlemen at subjectively should come with their
meals and supplies to the city of Cuzco and bring him all the more people could be, because
he had agreed to make themselves rebuild the city of Cuzco in such a way that was perpetually made
and manufactured in certain buildings he yes I had thought, and that after they were made,
they would see, for which it was necessary lot of very large numbers of people, and that this
was necessary to depart from the city certain gentlemen of the people there on that board with him
were: and then they saw that there wanted to go, because, with those remaining, he had need,
while those who had to go were, of what we do and provide for such a building necessary. É then there
were appointed ten lords, twenty apricots, which departed from there
and were then to the towns and provinces and provide them to bring
what we have heard.



SOCRATES: Then as to the other topics--are they not thrown down anyhow? Is there any principle
in them? Why should the next topic follow next in order, or any other topic? I cannot help
fancying in my ignorance that he wrote off boldly just what came into his head, but I dare
say that you would recognize a rhetorical necessity in the succession of the several parts
of the composition?

PHAEDRUS: You have too good an opinion of me if you think that I have any such insight into
his principles of composition.

PHAEDRUS: Certainly.

SOCRATES: Can this be said of the discourse of Lysias? See whether you can find any more connexion
in his words than in the epitaph which is said by some to have been inscribed on the grave
of Midas the Phrygian.

PHAEDRUS: What is there remarkable in the epitaph?

SOCRATES: It is as follows:--

'I am a maiden of bronze and lie on the tomb of Midas; So long as water flows and tall trees
grow, So long here on this spot by his sad tomb abiding, I shall declare to passers-by that
Midas sleeps below.'

Now in this rhyme whether a line comes first or comes last, as you will perceive, makes no
difference.

PHAEDRUS: You are making fun of that oration of ours.

SOCRATES: Well, I will say no more about your friend's speech lest I should give offence to
you; although I think that it might furnish many other examples of what a man ought rather
to avoid. But I will proceed to the other speech, which, as I think, is also suggestive to
students of rhetoric.

PHAEDRUS: In what way?

SOCRATES: The two speeches, as you may remember, were unlike; the one argued that the lover
and the other that the non-lover ought to be accepted.

PHAEDRUS: And right manfully.

SOCRATES: You should rather say 'madly;' and madness was the argument of them, for, as I said,
'love is a madness.'

PHAEDRUS: Yes.

SOCRATES: And of madness there were two kinds; one produced by human infirmity, the other was
a divine release of the soul from the yoke of custom and convention.

PHAEDRUS: True.

SOCRATES: The divine madness was subdivided into four kinds, prophetic, initiatory, poetic,
erotic, having four gods presiding over them; the first was the inspiration of Apollo, the
second that of Dionysus, the third that of the Muses, the fourth that of Aphrodite and Eros.
In the description of the last kind of madness, which was also said to be the best, we spoke
of the affection of love in a figure, into which we introduced a tolerably credible and possibly
true though partly erring myth, which was also a hymn in honour of Love, who is your lord and
also mine, Phaedrus, and the guardian of fair children, and to him we sung the hymn in measured
and solemn strain.

PHAEDRUS: I know that I had great pleasure in listening to you.

SOCRATES: Let us take this instance and note how the transition was made from blame to praise.

PHAEDRUS: What do you mean?

SOCRATES: I mean to say that the composition was mostly playful. Yet in these chance fancies
of the hour were involved two principles of which we should be too glad to have a clearer description
if art could give us one.

PHAEDRUS: What are they?

SOCRATES: First, the comprehension of scattered particulars in one idea; as in our definition
of love, which whether true or false certainly gave clearness and consistency to the discourse,
the speaker should define his several notions and so make his meaning clear.

PHAEDRUS: What is the other principle, Socrates?

SOCRATES: The second principle is that of division into species according to the natural formation,
where the joint is, not breaking any part as a bad carver might. Just as our two discourses,
alike assumed, first of all, a single form of unreason; and then, as the body which from being
one becomes double and may be divided into a left side and right side, each having parts right
and left of the same name--after this manner the speaker proceeded to divide the parts of the
left side and did not desist until he found in them an evil or left-handed love which he justly
reviled; and the other discourse leading us to the madness which lay on the right side, found
another love, also having the same name, but divine, which the speaker held up before us and
applauded and affirmed to be the author of the greatest benefits.

PHAEDRUS: Most true.

SOCRATES: I am myself a great lover of these processes of division and generalization; they
help me to speak and to think. And if I find any man who is able to see 'a One and Many' in
nature, him I follow, and 'walk in his footsteps as if he were a god.' And those who have this
art, I have hitherto been in the habit of calling dialecticians; but God knows whether the
name is right or not. And I should like to know what name you would give to your or to Lysias'
disciples, and whether this may not be that famous art of rhetoric which Thrasymachus and others
teach and practise? Skilful speakers they are, and impart their skill to any who is willing
to make kings of them and to bring gifts to them.

PHAEDRUS: Yes, they are royal men; but their art is not the same with the art of those whom
you call, and rightly, in my opinion, dialecticians:--Still we are in the dark about rhetoric.

SOCRATES: What do you mean? The remains of it, if there be anything remaining which can be
brought under rules of art, must be a fine thing; and, at any rate, is not to be despised by
you and me. But how much is left?

PHAEDRUS: There is a great deal surely to be found in books of rhetoric?

SOCRATES: Yes; thank you for reminding me:--There is the exordium, showing how the speech should
begin, if I remember rightly; that is what you mean--the niceties of the art?

PHAEDRUS: Yes.

SOCRATES: Then follows the statement of facts, and upon that witnesses; thirdly, proofs; fourthly,
probabilities are to come; the great Byzantian word-maker also speaks, if I am not mistaken,
of confirmation and further confirmation.

PHAEDRUS: You mean the excellent Theodorus.

SOCRATES: Yes; and he tells how refutation or further refutation is to be managed, whether
in accusation or defence. I ought also to mention the illustrious Parian, Evenus, who first
invented insinuations and indirect praises; and also indirect censures, which according to
some he put into verse to help the memory. But shall I 'to dumb forgetfulness consign' Tisias
and Gorgias, who are not ignorant that probability is superior to truth, and who by force of
argument make the little appear great and the great little, disguise the new in old fashions
and the old in new fashions, and have discovered forms for everything, either short or going
on to infinity. I remember Prodicus laughing when I told him of this; he said that he had himself
discovered the true rule of art, which was to be neither long nor short, but of a convenient
length.

PHAEDRUS: Well done, Prodicus!

SOCRATES: Then there is Hippias the Elean stranger, who probably agrees with him.

PHAEDRUS: Yes.

SOCRATES: And there is also Polus, who has treasuries of diplasiology, and gnomology, and eikonology,
and who teaches in them the names of which Licymnius made him a present; they were to give
a polish.

PHAEDRUS: Had not Protagoras something of the same sort?

SOCRATES: Yes, rules of correct diction and many other fine precepts; for the 'sorrows of a
poor old man,' or any other pathetic case, no one is better than the Chalcedonian giant; he
can put a whole company of people into a passion and out of one again by his mighty magic,
and is first-rate at inventing or disposing of any sort of calumny on any grounds or none.
All of them agree in asserting that a speech should end in a recapitulation, though they do
not all agree to use the same word.

PHAEDRUS: You mean that there should be a summing up of the arguments in order to remind the
hearers of them.

SOCRATES: I have now said all that I have to say of the art of rhetoric: have you anything to add?

PHAEDRUS: Not much; nothing very important.

SOCRATES: Leave the unimportant and let us bring the really important question into the light
of day, which is: What power has this art of rhetoric, and when?

PHAEDRUS: A very great power in public meetings.

SOCRATES: It has. But I should like to know whether you have the same feeling as I have about
the rhetoricians? To me there seem to be a great many holes in their web.

PHAEDRUS: Give an example.

SOCRATES: I will. Suppose a person to come to your friend Eryximachus, or to his father Acumenus,
and to say to him: 'I know how to apply drugs which shall have either a heating or a cooling
effect, and I can give a vomit and also a purge, and all that sort of thing; and knowing all
this, as I do, I claim to be a physician and to make physicians by imparting this knowledge
to others,'--what do you suppose that they would say?

PHAEDRUS: They would be sure to ask him whether he knew 'to whom' he would give his medicines,
and 'when,' and 'how much.'

SOCRATES: And suppose that he were to reply: 'No; I know nothing of all that; I expect the
patient who consults me to be able to do these things for himself'?

PHAEDRUS: They would say in reply that he is a madman or a pedant who fancies that he is a
physician because he has read something in a book, or has stumbled on a prescription or two,
although he has no real understanding of the art of medicine.

SOCRATES: And suppose a person were to come to Sophocles or Euripides and say that he knows
how to make a very long speech about a small matter, and a short speech about a great matter,
and also a sorrowful speech, or a terrible, or threatening speech, or any other kind of speech,
and in teaching this fancies that he is teaching the art of tragedy--?

PHAEDRUS: They too would surely laugh at him if he fancies that tragedy is anything but the
arranging of these elements in a manner which will be suitable to one another and to the whole.

SOCRATES: But I do not suppose that they would be rude or abusive to him: Would they not treat
him as a musician a man who thinks that he is a harmonist because he knows how to pitch the
highest and lowest note; happening to meet such an one he would not say to him savagely, 'Fool,
you are mad!' But like a musician, in a gentle and harmonious tone of voice, he would answer:
'My good friend, he who would be a harmonist must certainly know this, and yet he may understand
nothing of harmony if he has not got beyond your stage of knowledge, for you only know the
preliminaries of harmony and not harmony itself.'

PHAEDRUS: Very true.

SOCRATES: And will not Sophocles say to the display of the would-be tragedian, that this is
not tragedy but the preliminaries of tragedy? and will not Acumenus say the same of medicine
to the would-be physician?

PHAEDRUS: Quite true.

SOCRATES: And if Adrastus the mellifluous or Pericles heard of these wonderful arts, brachylogies
and eikonologies and all the hard names which we have been endeavouring to draw into the light
of day, what would they say? Instead of losing temper and applying uncomplimentary epithets,
as you and I have been doing, to the authors of such an imaginary art, their superior wisdom
would rather censure us, as well as them. 'Have a little patience, Phaedrus and Socrates, they
would say; you should not be in such a passion with those who from some want of dialectical
skill are unable to define the nature of rhetoric, and consequently suppose that they have
found the art in the preliminary conditions of it, and when these have been taught by them
to others, fancy that the whole art of rhetoric has been taught by them; but as to using the
several instruments of the art effectively, or making the composition a whole,--an application
of it such as this is they regard as an easy thing which their disciples may make for themselves.'

PHAEDRUS: I quite admit, Socrates, that the art of rhetoric which these men teach and of which
they write is such as you describe--there I agree with you. But I still want to know where
and how the true art of rhetoric and persuasion is to be acquired.

SOCRATES: The perfection which is required of the finished orator is, or rather must be, like
the perfection of anything else; partly given by nature, but may also be assisted by art. If
you have the natural power and add to it knowledge and practice, you will be a distinguished
speaker; if you fall short in either of these, you will be to that extent defective. But the
art, as far as there is an art, of rhetoric does not lie in the direction of Lysias or Thrasymachus.

PHAEDRUS: In what direction then?

SOCRATES: I conceive Pericles to have been the most accomplished of rhetoricians.

PHAEDRUS: What of that?

SOCRATES: All the great arts require discussion and high speculation about the truths of nature;
hence come loftiness of thought and completeness of execution. And this, as I conceive, was
the quality which, in addition to his natural gifts, Pericles acquired from his intercourse
with Anaxagoras whom he happened to know. And the chiefs left their lords meeting
and were do Inca Yupanqui was, which told him what had made and ordered ANSI, as [to] they had
orders and notices, and that pointing out the sites and places do had deposits to be made because
each of them had to do, and among them the spread had. And then they said some Inca Yupanqui
sheet [40] and mountain slopes that around the city of Cuzco are and the sight of him, and there
were then ordered them built of such deposits, so that, when this was brought proveimiento,
found what you get. And then there were the gentlemen to the sites by the Inca were identified
and put to work and building of such deposits. And tardóse to make and distribute these deposits
land five years, because they were so many shells they did, which sent to Inca Yupanqui, having plenty
of food and so they do not need. And by it craves food had, wanted to build the city of Cuzco in
stone and repair streams the hedge, and had in itself, rather than having supplies in such quantity
that you are missing, I could take the people he wanted [to] make and construct the buildings and
houses ANSI wanted to rebuild.

And the deposits made and provided, and now the land spread and finished
sharing, Inca Yupanqui ordered together the chiefs and gentlemen,
in what has been said, he had made service, and thinking that was
just off making some grants and some contentment dalles, ANSI and
being together, and gave them repartióles many gold and silver jewelry
that by the time in the play were the styling had commanded, and gave
each ansímismo two dresses the clothes of their garments, and to each
of them a woman gave them natives of Cuzco, his lineage, so that each
one of these women were principal chief whom he had ANSI given that
the children é in such had, were heirs of such states and chiefdoms
that their parents had, on the basis Inca Yupanqui by the debtor that
had them in this way, none of them ever in your days you rebel, you
would have between them é é of Cuzco perpetual friendship and confederacy.

All of which ANSI done and seen major injuries chiefs [41] that made them, all bowed to kiss her
feet and he will give great graces. Á which Inca Yupanqui ordered that they should go to rest
their lands, and from then to one year returned to the city of Cuzco, é that at this time, each
of them in their land hiciesen planting many crops of all meals, because I had to would need, in
time: and commended them on their land no idleness hobiese in the young men and women, because
they were not such idleness causes have the remnants of his bad example attempting to execute
[exercise] every time they did not understand to make crops, in matters of war, that [and in]
such exercises as was to know wielding slingshots, throwing arrows, axes to play with how to fight
in battle brandishing spears with shields in their hands, all of which had to do on their land the
young men making a rope to put as many as another. All of which is heard by the chiefs, said
would do so and that was saying it was good. And thus the Inca them away, and them, making
their compliance, they came and went.

Gone were the chiefs to their land, that year that these chiefs had tare on their land and Inca
Yupanqui, by this time, not having to do he took to exercise going to hunt, which made the most
of the day, and other days they walked through the city looking and the site of it, imagining him
in the order itself was to give him and the building and rebuilding that she intended to do,
as he saw that these two streams that the city took in the middle they were great harm in it, for,
as the rains should come every year, they came from Avenue, é should come as Ansi always ate
the earth and were expanding and getting by the city, and via that it was detrimental to the
city and to the inhabitants of it, and to make their buildings and houses that she thought building,
which needed repair first the fervor of those two streams, and they repaired everything could
build any building without fear that such avenues they are dull.

And the year to compliment Inca Yupanqui seemed that it was time that these gentlemen neighboring
towns should come, inviolate his messengers, for which they shipped to say that it was time for should
come to the city, as he had told them when there were, and that a favorable answer "Likewise all the
more cattle they could, é é meals maintenance, it was now the time come Dell and dello TERNIA need.
All of which is heard by the chiefs, as they had ansímismo in care as well send them when from
is left, then went their way; because they already had with all those necessary to bring it,
and so they were already under way; with all parties and which came into the city of Cuzco and
they brought him all the more people who could.

É arrivals were to the city of Cuzco, the Inca made their compliance in this way, because this was
the style that I had when I was in front of Vian, that like in front
of were, raised their hands and faces to the sun, making your mochas
é compliance, then "Likewise é made them no less to the Inca, and
the words ANSI ANSI told when they greeted him, that told him: "Ah,
son of the sun loving and friendly to the poor!"

That said, brought them before his mind craves brought him, then he sacrificed certain é é sheep
lambs before é Dél compliance with all respect, as a son of the sun, and this ANSI fact, the
Inca used to say hello telling them they were welcome, and asked if we were good and that if they
were "Likewise their land. All of which you have heard these guys did with Inca Yupanqui caciques,
when they were in front of him, and he said ansímismo what you heard. É told them that should
give wore those eager lords of Cuzco to those who were there, and so he was left do the Inca was,
and they and those lords of Cuzco were do the deposits were placed é wore all maintenance to
be collected.

And after having loose with the Inca and the lords of Cuzco five days, at their parties é rejoicing,
Inca Yupanqui told them what he planned to do, and wanted to repair é é fortalescer indeed those
of these two streams that passed through the city, telling them the damage rescebia the city, and
they said orchestra ready to do everything that he they were commanded to tell them how quen
It had to have, because it would provide what to do if necessary. And ANSI, Inca Yupanqui pointed
out to them the sources of the streams, and from him to where he paresció who were to begin
such fortifications and repairs, to the junction of the two streams, which is the pinnacle of the
city do they call Pumachupa [Pumapchupan], which says "cola de leon" [42]: and from there sent to
the strengthening and repair Muyna came up [43], four leagues from this city parks. Messrs.
chiefs and ANSI medieron cords with space had since the beginning of where Inca Yupanqui [said]
they started, to the junction of the streams, and so he measured, and divided the party to each
ANSI Cabia the building had to do, and this fact, he commanded them to do Inca Yupanqui bring a
lot of rough stone, because of rough stone was to be the repairs,
and the mixture had to get between the stones, who would look that
was to be a sticky mud, which and that water will get wet, do not
remove it, and before the stones were grasped a other and the water
not just eat the mix.

And thus, the chiefs gave the order to seek é é mud mixture may bring rough stone was sent craves
them all, which brought ANSI, began their building. É é ordered that this building came to Muyna
strengthening [44]; because, as was repaired this stream of the city below, where the lands
and cultivated fields were, and the rains should come to the these avenues, the stream does
not break down the canyons é be entered by land and me a bad and damage to such crops.

And this fact é provided, sent to the lords of Cuzco that some day they wanted to communicate
a certain thing was proper long for the good of the city and the republic, to whom said, as
ANSI and were together, he had great need of clothes made deposits quantity, and for that I wanted
to make a big feast to the chiefs, in which party they were happy when he saw that it wanted to
say and they did send you crave it é proveyesen of their land. É lords said it was something very convenient
and well agreed, they wanted to give orders and command that they should do a lot of chicha,
and this fact é dressed, hiciéronselo know the Inca, who, as he knew that every fact was, said
another day I wanted to start the party, and so he summoned all those chiefs Lord, and being
front of him, told how he wanted idling é rejoice with them, and they received great favor.

É
next morning brought a lot of rushes and was thrown across the square and brought many branches
that rammed into it, in which branches were hung many flowers and many birds live; and so he,
the lords of Cuzco went very well dressed in the clothes that they cherished had, and the Inca
together with them: and they came ansímismo chiefs, who wore dresses the dresses that the Inca
would give them.

É then were taken to the place where a lot of very large number of
jugs of chicha, and then ladies came, longing for women and other
major Inca, which took many different dishes: and then sat down to
eat all, and after eating, they began to drink, and after drinking,
the Inca sent out four drums with gold, and still there in place,
to put mandáronlos stretch in it and then grabbed the hands of all
of them as both a part to another, and playing the drums, for so in
the middle were, began to sing together, starting the ladies sing
and behind them were women; singing in which they said and declared
that the coming Uscovilca had come upon them, and the Viracocha output,
[t how] Inca Yupanqui had him prisoner and killed, saying that the
sun had given favor for it, as his son: and how after he had defeated
and imprisoned ansímismo and dead to the captains who had made the
joint ANSI season.

É Then I began singing, giving praise and thanks to the sun and ansímismo to Inca Yupanqui,
greeting him like a son of the sun, became to sit. É ansímismo began to drink the chicha that
there had, which they say had very much, and in very large numbers. É I was brought there
after a lot of coca é divided between all of them, and this well done, he turned and made up,
as you heard ansímismo, a song and dance.

Which party lasted six [days], in order of which the Inca chiefs told those Gentlemen, that
being the agreement that it Cuzco hobiese clothing stores, wool ANSI and cotton: and that
ansímismo agreement that had deposits of a coarse sisal rugs é thick, with cords to two feet
at the ends of them, with which the tie to their throats as they see the Indians Paresce that
anxiously would give, which had to divide the workers and workers
in the repairs of the work of the streams they went, é them that "Likewise
in the other buildings had to walk, so that in such blankets cabuya
favorable answer would cause the earth é é ANSI stone was needed for
such work, é that as they had these blankets and such, do not spend
their own, which were made of wool é cotton, and the layers with which
they are covered.

All of which is heard by the lords caciques there were Inca Yupanqui said unto them, loose than
happy to do it as ANSI The Inca had commanded him.

É coming out of there, then sent to their lands, villages and provinces: and to have effect this
benefit, then sent on their land were together many women, and placed
in houses and yards, they were spread very thin, wool of different
colors, and that "Likewise were made and assembled many looms, é craves
men and women, with all the more promptly where possible, hiciesen
had clothes that fit them, each by himself, according to the extent
largor and anchor of them was given.

And these clothes made ANSI and finishes, was brought to the city Cuzco: and as there was, the
Inca sent to the chief of which was sent to Cuzco in deposits for such clothing had sent to ANSI.

And
this ANSI fact, the Inca lords é é the other chiefs, went strengthening and repairing these two streams
desto really the city of Cuzco, which already have heard, walking long The agreement was like
them on such workers in the work that went, giving them more quickly they could with all speed
to hiciesen and ends on such repairs and fortifications, in which work spent four years, with
as soon as they could do and finish his work.

Where, as it was finished, the Inca ordered and commanded that they should do another party,
according to the already we have told you, in which party might enjoy della participate and craves
the Lords as the other his subjects, in which party they were thirty days, in which he commanded
to the Inca who later out of the city of Cuzco certain amount of dried apricots, which were the lands
of those gentlemen who were there knew é é fetch him some account what amount had in these lands
and peoples of unmarried girls unmarried and young men, sending the caciques and principal
winters let their butlers, they llactacamayos call that this was his will and command, and that
he then should tell them with all speed should give é account of
such apricots to what is sent to wit, which came back with all speed;
all of which was eagerly dispatched fact é.

É given by the apricots in such towns and provinces account and reason for your request, returned
to the city of Cuzco, where, being before the Inca gave the reason that ANSI had known.

Understood by the Inca and the number of unmarried girls é youths in these villages had é provinces,
sent to these gentlemen, three good friends, who then left for of such towns and provinces, and
to take with all the caciques and gentlemen present there were with him in the presence of which
in each town and province arrived, marry young men from one province to the unmarried girls
of the other, and the unmarried girls the other with the young men of the other, and so he
were doing it for the land and subjective those men with him were chiefs, to grow and multiply
and they had perpetual friends, relatives and fellowship with one another. And this ANSI provided,
the Inca made many and large grants [to] these gentlemen chiefs, giving them many gifts, and
so he was left those lords of Cuzco and the other chiefs, and went
to do what they have heard.

And ANSI, was the Inca city of Cuzco to the same city and with some gentlemen of the peoples
of those around the city are a league, half to é, é less, to which he commanded, é "Likewise the men
of the city of Cuzco, then in front of a favorable answer, a master of those alone, the young
men who craves é unmarried girls in their villages had.
 He will rejoice in beholding their tender growth; and while others are refreshing
their souls with banqueting and the like, this will be the pastime in which his days are spent.

PHAEDRUS: A pastime, Socrates, as noble as the other is ignoble, the pastime of a man who can
be amused by serious talk, and can discourse merrily about justice and the like.

SOCRATES: True, Phaedrus. But nobler far is the serious pursuit of the dialectician, who, finding
a congenial soul, by the help of science sows and plants therein words which are able to help
themselves and him who planted them, and are not unfruitful, but have in them a seed which
others brought up in different soils render immortal, making the possessors of it happy to
the utmost extent of human happiness.

PHAEDRUS: Far nobler, certainly.

SOCRATES: And now, Phaedrus, having agreed upon the premises we may decide about the conclusion.

PHAEDRUS: About what conclusion?

SOCRATES: About Lysias, whom we censured, and his art of writing, and his discourses, and the
rhetorical skill or want of skill which was shown in them--these are the questions which we
sought to determine, and they brought us to this point. And I think that we are now pretty
well informed about the nature of art and its opposite.

PHAEDRUS: Yes, I think with you; but I wish that you would repeat what was said.

SOCRATES: Until a man knows the truth of the several particulars of which he is writing or
speaking, and is able to define them as they are, and having defined them again to divide them
until they can be no longer divided, and until in like manner he is able to discern the nature
of the soul, and discover the different modes of discourse which are adapted to different natures,
and to arrange and dispose them in such a way that the simple form of speech may be addressed
to the simpler nature, and the complex and composite to the more complex nature--until he has
accomplished all this, he will be unable to handle arguments according to rules of art, as
far as their nature allows them to be subjected to art, either for the purpose of teaching
or persuading;--such is the view which is implied in the whole preceding argument.

PHAEDRUS: Yes, that was our view, certainly.

SOCRATES: Secondly, as to the censure which was passed on the speaking or writing of discourses,
and how they might be rightly or wrongly censured--did not our previous argument show--?

PHAEDRUS: Show what?

SOCRATES: That whether Lysias or any other writer that ever was or will be, whether private
man or statesman, proposes laws and so becomes the author of a political treatise, fancying
that there is any great certainty and clearness in his performance, the fact of his so writing
is only a disgrace to him, whatever men may say. For not to know the nature of justice and
injustice, and good and evil, and not to be able to distinguish the dream from the reality,
cannot in truth be otherwise than disgraceful to him, even though he have the applause of the
whole world.

PHAEDRUS: Certainly.

SOCRATES: But he who thinks that in the written word there is necessarily much which is not
serious, and that neither poetry nor prose, spoken or written, is of any great value, if, like
the compositions of the rhapsodes, they are only recited in order to be believed, and not with
any view to criticism or instruction; and who thinks that even the best of writings are but
a reminiscence of what we know, and that only in principles of justice and goodness and nobility
taught and communicated orally for the sake of instruction and graven in the soul, which is
the true way of writing, is there clearness and perfection and seriousness, and that such principles
are a man's own and his legitimate offspring;--being, in the first place, the word which he
finds in his own bosom; secondly, the brethren and descendants and relations of his idea which
have been duly implanted by him in the souls of others;--and who cares for them and no others--this
is the right sort of man; and you and I, Phaedrus, would pray that we may become like him.

PHAEDRUS: That is most assuredly my desire and prayer.

SOCRATES: And now the play is played out; and of rhetoric enough. Go and tell Lysias that to
the fountain and school of the Nymphs we went down, and were bidden by them to convey a message
to him and to other composers of speeches--to Homer and other writers of poems, whether set
to music or not; and to Solon and others who have composed writings in the form of political
discourses which they would term laws--to all of them we are to say that if their compositions
are based on knowledge of the truth, and they can defend or prove them, when they are put to
the test, by spoken arguments, which leave their writings poor in comparison of them, then
they are to be called, not only poets, orators, legislators, but are worthy of a higher name,
befitting the serious pursuit of their life.

PHAEDRUS: What name would you assign to them?

SOCRATES: Wise, I may not call them; for that is a great name which belongs to God alone,--lovers
of wisdom or philosophers is their modest and befitting title.

PHAEDRUS: Very suitable.

SOCRATES: And he who cannot rise above his own compilations and compositions, which he has
been long patching and piecing, adding some and taking away some, may be justly called poet
or speech-maker or law-maker.

PHAEDRUS: Certainly.

SOCRATES: Now go and tell this to your companion.

PHAEDRUS: But there is also a friend of yours who ought not to be forgotten.

SOCRATES: Who is he?

PHAEDRUS: Isocrates the fair:--What message will you send to him, and how shall we describe him?

SOCRATES: Isocrates is still young, Phaedrus; but I am willing to hazard a prophecy concerning him.

PHAEDRUS: What would you prophesy?

SOCRATES: I think that he has a genius which soars above the orations of Lysias, and that his
character is cast in a finer mould. My impression of him is that he will marvellously improve
as he grows older, and that all former rhetoricians will be as children in comparison of him.
And I believe that he will not be satisfied with rhetoric, but that there is in him a divine
inspiration which will lead him to things higher still. For he has an element of philosophy
in his nature. 

And back to our story, say that after you have done in this province Cacha this miracle, which
passed on, always understanding in his work, as you heard, and as get to a place that now say
the Urcos Tambo, which is six miles from the city of Cuzco, went up to a high hill and sat on top
of him, from where they say they ordered that occur and to depart from that height the natives
who live there to this day. May I reckon the wise to be the wealthy,
and may I have such a quantity of gold as a temperate man and he only can bear and carry.--Anything
more? The prayer, I think, is enough for me.

PHAEDRUS: Ask the same for me, for friends should have all things in common.

SOCRATES: Let us go.

