LIFE ON THE MISSISSIPPI

                        BY MARK TWAIN

                           Part 3.

Chapter 11  The River Rises

DURING this big rise these small-fry craft were an intolerable nuisance. We were running chute
after chute,--a new world to me,--and if there was a particularly cramped place in a chute,
we would be pretty sure to meet a broad-horn there; and if he failed to be there, we would
find him in a still worse locality, namely, the head of the chute, on the shoal water. And
then there would be no end of profane cordialities exchanged.

Sometimes, in the big river, when we would be feeling our way cautiously along through a fog,
the deep hush would suddenly be broken by yells and a clamor of tin pans, and all in instant
a log raft would appear vaguely through the webby veil, close upon us; and then we did not
wait to swap knives, but snatched our engine bells out by the roots and piled on all the steam
we had, to scramble out of the way! One doesn't hit a rock or a solid log craft with a steamboat
when he can get excused.

You will hardly believe it, but many steamboat clerks always carried a large assortment of
religious tracts with them in those old departed steamboating days.  Indeed they did. Twenty
times a day we would be cramping up around a bar, while a string of these small-fry rascals
were drifting down into the head of the bend away above and beyond us a couple of miles. Now
a skiff would dart away from one of them, and come fighting its laborious way across the desert
of water.  It would 'ease all,' in the shadow of our forecastle, and the panting oarsmen would
shout, 'Gimme a pa-a-per!' as the skiff drifted swiftly astern. The clerk would throw over
a file of New Orleans journals. If these were picked up without comment, you might notice that
now a dozen other skiffs had been drifting down upon us without saying anything. You understand,
they had been waiting to see how No. 1 was going to fare. No. 1 making no comment, all the
rest would bend to their oars and come on, now; and as fast as they came the clerk would heave
over neat bundles of religious tracts, tied to shingles. The amount of hard swearing which
twelve packages of religious literature will command when impartially divided up among twelve
raftsmen's crews, who have pulled a heavy skiff two miles on a hot day to get them, is simply
incredible.

As I have said, the big rise brought a new world under my vision. By the time the river was
over its banks we had forsaken our old paths and were hourly climbing over bars that had stood
ten feet out of water before; we were shaving stumpy shores, like that at the foot of Madrid
Bend, which I had always seen avoided before; we were clattering through chutes like that of
82, where the opening at the foot was an unbroken wall of timber till our nose was almost at
the very spot.  Some of these chutes were utter solitudes. The dense, untouched forest overhung
both banks of the crooked little crack, and one could believe that human creatures had never
intruded there before. The swinging grape-vines, the grassy nooks and vistas glimpsed as we
swept by, the flowering creepers waving their red blossoms from the tops of dead trunks, and
all the spendthrift richness of the forest foliage, were wasted and thrown away there.  The
chutes were lovely places to steer in; they were deep, except at the head; the current was
gentle; under the 'points' the water was absolutely dead, and the invisible banks so bluff
that where the tender willow thickets projected you could bury your boat's broadside in them
as you tore along, and then you seemed fairly to fly.

Behind other islands we found wretched little farms, and wretcheder little log-cabins; there
were crazy rail fences sticking a foot or two above the water, with one or two jeans-clad,
chills-racked, yellow-faced male miserables roosting on the top-rail, elbows on knees, jaws
in hands, grinding tobacco and discharging the result at floating chips through crevices left
by lost teeth; while the rest of the family and the few farm-animals were huddled together
in an empty wood-flat riding at her moorings close at hand. In this flat-boat the family would
have to cook and eat and sleep for a lesser or greater number of days (or possibly weeks),
until the river should fall two or three feet and let them get back to their log-cabin and
their chills again--chills being a merciful provision of an all-wise Providence to enable them
to take exercise without exertion. And this sort of watery camping out was a thing which these
people were rather liable to be treated to a couple of times a year: by the December rise out
of the Ohio, and the June rise out of the Mississippi.  And yet these were kindly dispensations,
for they at least enabled the poor things to rise from the dead now and then, and look upon
life when a steamboat went by. They appreciated the blessing, too, for they spread their mouths
and eyes wide open and made the most of these occasions. Now what COULD these banished creatures
find to do to keep from dying of the blues during the low-water season!

Once, in one of these lovely island chutes, we found our course completely bridged by a great
fallen tree. This will serve to show how narrow some of the chutes were. The passengers had
an hour's recreation in a virgin wilderness, while the boat-hands chopped the bridge away;
for there was no such thing as turning back, you comprehend.

From Cairo to Baton Rouge, when the river is over its banks, you have no particular trouble
in the night, for the thousand-mile wall of dense forest that guards the two banks all the
way is only gapped with a farm or wood-yard opening at intervals, and so you can't 'get out
of the river' much easier than you could get out of a fenced lane; but from Baton Rouge to
New Orleans it is a different matter.  The river is more than a mile wide, and very deep--as
much as two hundred feet, in places. Both banks, for a good deal over a hundred miles, are
shorn of their timber and bordered by continuous sugar plantations, with only here and there
a scattering sapling or row of ornamental China-trees. The timber is shorn off clear to the
rear of the plantations, from two to four miles. When the first frost threatens to come, the
planters snatch off their crops in a hurry.  When they have finished grinding the cane, they
form the refuse of the stalks (which they call BAGASSE) into great piles and set fire to them,
though in other sugar countries the bagasse is used for fuel in the furnaces of the sugar mills.
Now the piles of damp bagasse burn slowly, and smoke like Satan's own kitchen.

An embankment ten or fifteen feet high guards both banks of the Mississippi all the way down
that lower end of the river, and this embankment is set back from the edge of the shore from
ten to perhaps a hundred feet, according to circumstances; say thirty or forty feet, as a general
thing. Fill that whole region with an impenetrable gloom of smoke from a hundred miles of burning
bagasse piles, when the river is over the banks, and turn a steamboat loose along there at
midnight and see how she will feel. And see how you will feel, too!  You find yourself away
out in the midst of a vague dim sea that is shoreless, that fades out and loses itself in the
murky distances; for you cannot discern the thin rib of embankment, and you are always imagining
you see a straggling tree when you don't. The plantations themselves are transformed by the
smoke, and look like a part of the sea.  All through your watch you are tortured with the exquisite
misery of uncertainty. You hope you are keeping in the river, but you do not know. All that
you are sure about is that you are likely to be within six feet of the bank and destruction,
when you think you are a good half-mile from shore. And you are sure, also, that if you chance
suddenly to fetch up against the embankment and topple your chimneys overboard, you will have
the small comfort of knowing that it is about what you were expecting to do. One of the great
Vicksburg packets darted out into a sugar plantation one night, at such a time, and had to
stay there a week.  But there was no novelty about it; it had often been done before.

I thought I had finished this chapter, but I wish to add a curious thing, while it is in my
mind. It is only relevant in that it is connected with piloting. There used to be an excellent
pilot on the river, a Mr. X., who was a somnambulist.  It was said that if his mind was troubled
about a bad piece of river, he was pretty sure to get up and walk in his sleep and do strange
things. He was once fellow-pilot for a trip or two with George Ealer, on a great New Orleans
passenger packet.  During a considerable part of the first trip George was uneasy, but got
over it by and by, as X. seemed content to stay in his bed when asleep. Late one night the
boat was approaching Helena, Arkansas; the water was low, and the crossing above the town in
a very blind and tangled condition.  X. had seen the crossing since Ealer had, and as the night
was particularly drizzly, sullen, and dark, Ealer was considering whether he had not better
have X. called to assist in running the place, when the door opened and X. walked in. Now on
very dark nights, light is a deadly enemy to piloting; you are aware that if you stand in a
lighted room, on such a night, you cannot see things in the street to any purpose; but if you
put out the lights and stand in the gloom you can make out objects in the street pretty well.
So, on very dark nights, pilots do not smoke; they allow no fire in the pilot-house stove if
there is a crack which can allow the least ray to escape; they order the furnaces to be curtained
with huge tarpaulins and the sky-lights to be closely blinded. Then no light whatever issues
from the boat.  The undefinable shape that now entered the pilot-house had Mr. X.'s voice.
This said--

'Let me take her, George; I've seen this place since you have, and it is so crooked that I
reckon I can run it myself easier than I could tell you how to do it.'

'It is kind of you, and I swear I am willing. I haven't got another drop of perspiration left
in me. I have been spinning around and around the wheel like a squirrel. It is so dark I can't
tell which way she is swinging till she is coming around like a whirligig.'

So Ealer took a seat on the bench, panting and breathless. The black phantom assumed the wheel
without saying anything, steadied the waltzing steamer with a turn or two, and then stood at
ease, coaxing her a little to this side and then to that, as gently and as sweetly as if the
time had been noonday. When Ealer observed this marvel of steering, he wished he had not confessed!
He stared, and wondered, and finally said--

'Well, I thought I knew how to steer a steamboat, but that was another mistake of mine.'

X. said nothing, but went serenely on with his work.  He rang for the leads; he rang to slow
down the steam; he worked the boat carefully and neatly into invisible marks, then stood at
the center of the wheel and peered blandly out into the blackness, fore and aft, to verify
his position; as the leads shoaled more and more, he stopped the engines entirely, and the
dead silence and suspense of 'drifting' followed when the shoalest water was struck, he cracked
on the steam, carried her handsomely over, and then began to work her warily into the next
system of shoal marks; the same patient, heedful use of leads and engines followed, the boat
slipped through without touching bottom, and entered upon the third and last intricacy of the
crossing; imperceptibly she moved through the gloom, crept by inches into her marks, drifted
tediously till the shoalest water was cried, and then, under a tremendous head of steam, went
swinging over the reef and away into deep water and safety!

Ealer let his long-pent breath pour out in a great, relieving sigh, and said--

'That's the sweetest piece of piloting that was ever done on the Mississippi River!  I wouldn't
believed it could be done, if I hadn't seen it.'

There was no reply, and he added--

'Just hold her five minutes longer, partner, and let me run down and get a cup of coffee.'

A minute later Ealer was biting into a pie, down in the 'texas,' and comforting himself with
coffee.  Just then the night watchman happened in, and was about to happen out again, when
he noticed Ealer and exclaimed--

'Who is at the wheel, sir?'

'X.'

'Dart for the pilot-house, quicker than lightning!'

The next moment both men were flying up the pilot-house companion way, three steps at a jump!
Nobody there!  The great steamer was whistling down the middle of the river at her own sweet
will! The watchman shot out of the place again; Ealer seized the wheel, set an engine back
with power, and held his breath while the boat reluctantly swung away from a 'towhead' which
she was about to knock into the middle of the Gulf of Mexico!

By and by the watchman came back and said--

'Didn't that lunatic tell you he was asleep, when he first came up here?'

'NO.'

'Well, he was.  I found him walking along on top of the railings just as unconcerned as another
man would walk a pavement; and I put him to bed; now just this minute there he was again, away
astern, going through that sort of tight-rope deviltry the same as before.'

'Well, I think I'll stay by, next time he has one of those fits. But I hope he'll have them
often.  You just ought to have seen him take this boat through Helena crossing.  I never saw
anything so gaudy before. And if he can do such gold-leaf, kid-glove, diamond-breastpin piloting
when he is sound asleep, what COULDN'T he do if he was dead!'

Chapter 12 Sounding

WHEN the river is very low, and one's steamboat is 'drawing all the water' there is in the
channel,--or a few inches more, as was often the case in the old times,--one must be painfully
circumspect in his piloting. We used to have to 'sound' a number of particularly bad places
almost every trip when the river was at a very low stage.

Sounding is done in this way.  The boat ties up at the shore, just above the shoal crossing;
the pilot not on watch takes his 'cub' or steersman and a picked crew of men (sometimes an
officer also), and goes out in the yawl--provided the boat has not that rare and sumptuous
luxury, a regularly-devised 'sounding-boat'--and proceeds to hunt for the best water, the pilot
on duty watching his movements through a spy-glass, meantime, and in some instances assisting
by signals of the boat's whistle, signifying 'try higher up' or 'try lower down;' for the surface
of the water, like an oil-painting, is more expressive and intelligible when inspected from
a little distance than very close at hand. The whistle signals are seldom necessary, however;
never, perhaps, except when the wind confuses the significant ripples upon the water's surface.
When the yawl has reached the shoal place, the speed is slackened, the pilot begins to sound
the depth with a pole ten or twelve feet long, and the steersman at the tiller obeys the order
to 'hold her up to starboard;' or, 'let her fall off to larboard;'{footnote [The term 'larboard'
is never used at sea now, to signify the left hand; but was always used on the river in my
time]} or 'steady--steady as you go.'

When the measurements indicate that the yawl is approaching the shoalest part of the reef,
the command is given to 'ease all!' Then the men stop rowing and the yawl drifts with the current.
The next order is, 'Stand by with the buoy!'  The moment the shallowest point is reached, the
pilot delivers the order, 'Let go the buoy!' and over she goes.  If the pilot is not satisfied,
he sounds the place again; if he finds better water higher up or lower down, he removes the
buoy to that place. Being finally satisfied, he gives the order, and all the men stand their
oars straight up in the air, in line; a blast from the boat's whistle indicates that the signal
has been seen; then the men 'give way' on their oars and lay the yawl alongside the buoy; the
steamer comes creeping carefully down, is pointed straight at the buoy, husbands her power
for the coming struggle, and presently, at the critical moment, turns on all her steam and
goes grinding and wallowing over the buoy and the sand, and gains the deep water beyond. Or
maybe she doesn't; maybe she 'strikes and swings.' Then she has to while away several hours
(or days) sparring herself off.

Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all, but the yawl goes ahead, hunting the best water, and the
steamer follows along in its wake. Often there is a deal of fun and excitement about sounding,
especially if it is a glorious summer day, or a blustering night. But in winter the cold and
the peril take most of the fun out of it.

A buoy is nothing but a board four or five feet long, with one end turned up; it is a reversed
school-house bench, with one of the supports left and the other removed. It is anchored on
the shoalest part of the reef by a rope with a heavy stone made fast to the end of it. But
for the resistance of the turned-up end of the reversed bench, the current would pull the buoy
under water.  At night, a paper lantern with a candle in it is fastened on top of the buoy,
and this can be seen a mile or more, a little glimmering spark in the waste of blackness.

Nothing delights a cub so much as an opportunity to go out sounding. There is such an air of
adventure about it; often there is danger; it is so gaudy and man-of-war-like to sit up in
the stern-sheets and steer a swift yawl; there is something fine about the exultant spring
of the boat when an experienced old sailor crew throw their souls into the oars; it is lovely
to see the white foam stream away from the bows; there is music in the rush of the water; it
is deliciously exhilarating, in summer, to go speeding over the breezy expanses of the river
when the world of wavelets is dancing in the sun.  It is such grandeur, too, to the cub, to
get a chance to give an order; for often the pilot will simply say, 'Let her go about!' and
leave the rest to the cub, who instantly cries, in his sternest tone of command, 'Ease starboard!
Strong on the larboard! Starboard give way!  With a will, men!'  The cub enjoys sounding for
the further reason that the eyes of the passengers are watching all the yawl's movements with
absorbing interest if the time be daylight; and if it be night he knows that those same wondering
eyes are fastened upon the yawl's lantern as it glides out into the gloom and dims away in
the remote distance.

