SIDE-LIGHTS ON ASTRONOMY

AND KINDRED FIELDS OF POPULAR SCIENCE

ESSAYS AND ADDRESSES

BY

SIMON NEWCOMB

CONTENTS

PREFACE

     I. THE UNSOLVED PROBLEMS OF ASTRONOMY
    II. THE NEW PROBLEMS OF THE UNIVERSE
   III. THE STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE
    IV. THE EXTENT OF THE UNIVERSE
     V. MAKING AND USING A TELESCOPE
    VI. WHAT THE ASTRONOMERS ARE DOING
   VII. LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE
  VIII. HOW THE PLANETS ARE WEIGHED
    IX. THE MARINER'S COMPASS
     X. THE FAIRYLAND OF GEOMETRY
    XI. THE ORGANIZATION OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
   XII. CAN WE MAKE IT RAIN?
  XIII. THE ASTRONOMICAL EPHEMERIS AND NAUTICAL ALMANAC
   XIV. THE WORLD'S DEBT TO ASTRONOMY
    XV. AN ASTRONOMICAL FRIENDSHIP
   XVI. THE EVOLUTION OF THE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATOR
  XVII. THE EVOLUTION OF ASTRONOMICAL KNOWLEDGE
 XVIII. ASPECTS OF AMERICAN ASTRONOMY
   XIX. THE UNIVERSE AS AN ORGANISM
    XX. THE RELATION OF SCIENTIFIC METHOD TO SOCIAL PROGRESS
   XXI. THE OUTLOOK FOR THE FLYING-MACHINE

ILLUSTRATIONS

SIMON NEWCOMB

PHOTOGRAPH OF THE CORONA OF THE SUN, TAKEN IN TRIPOLI DURING TOTAL ECLIPSE OF AUGUST 30, 1905.

A TYPICAL STAR CLUSTER-CENTAURI

THE GLASS DISK

THE OPTICIAN'S TOOL

THE OPTICIAN'S TOOL

GRINDING A LARGE LENS

IMAGE OF CANDLE-FLAME IN OBJECT-GLASS

TESTING ADJUSTMENT OF OBJECT-GLASS

A VERY PRIMITIVE MOUNTING FOR A TELESCOPE

THE HUYGHENIAN EYE-PIECE

SECTION OF THE PRIMITIVE MOUNTING

SPECTRAL IMAGES OF STARS, THE UPPER LINE SHOWING HOW THEY APPEAR WITH THE EYE-PIECE PUSHED
IN, THE LOWER WITH THE EYE-PIECE DRAWN OUT

THE GREAT REFRACTOR OF THE NATIONAL OBSERVATORY AT WASHINGTON

THE "BROKEN-BACKED COMET-SEEKER"

NEBULA IN ORION

DIP OF THE MAGNETIC NEEDLE IN VARIOUS LATITUDES

STAR SPECTRA

PROFESSOR LANGLEY'S AIR-SHIP

PREFACE

In preparing and issuing this collection of essays and addresses, the author has yielded to
what he could not but regard as the too flattering judgment of the publishers. Having done
this, it became incumbent to do what he could to justify their good opinion by revising the
material and bringing it up to date. Interest rather than unity of thought has determined the
selection.

A prominent theme in the collection is that of the structure, extent, and duration of the universe.
Here some repetition of ideas was found unavoidable, in a case where what is substantially
a single theme has been treated in the various forms which it assumed in the light of constantly
growing knowledge. If the critical reader finds this a defect, the author can plead in extenuation
only the difficulty of avoiding it under the circumstances. Although mainly astronomical, a
number of discussions relating to general scientific subjects have been included.

Acknowledgment is due to the proprietors of the various periodicals from the pages of which
most of the essays have been taken. Besides Harper's Magazine and the North American Review,
these include McClure's Magazine, from which were taken the articles "The Unsolved Problems
of Astronomy" and "How the Planets are Weighed." "The Structure of the Universe" appeared in
the International Monthly, now the International Quarterly; "The Outlook for the Flying-Machine"
is mainly from The New York Independent, but in part from McClure's Magazine; "The World's
Debt to Astronomy" is from The Chautauquan; and "An Astronomical Friendship" from the Atlantic
Monthly.

SIMON NEWCOMB. WASHINGTON, JUNE, 1906.

I

THE UNSOLVED PROBLEMS OF ASTRONOMY

The reader already knows what the solar system is: an immense central body, the sun, with a
number of planets revolving round it at various distances. On one of these planets we dwell.
Vast, indeed, are the distances of the planets when measured by our terrestrial standards.
A cannon-ball fired from the earth to celebrate the signing of the Declaration of Independence,
and continuing its course ever since with a velocity of eighteen hundred feet per second, would
not yet be half-way to the orbit of Neptune, the outer planet. And yet the thousands of stars
which stud the heavens are at distances so much greater than that of Neptune that our solar
system is like a little colony, separated from the rest of the universe by an ocean of void
space almost immeasurable in extent. The orbit of the earth round the sun is of such size that
a railway train running sixty miles an hour, with never a stop, would take about three hundred
and fifty years to cross it. Represent this orbit by a lady's finger-ring. Then the nearest
fixed star will be about a mile and a half away; the next more than two miles; a few more from
three to twenty miles; the great body at scores or hundreds of miles. Imagine the stars thus
scattered from the Atlantic to the Mississippi, and keep this little finger-ring in mind as
the orbit of the earth, and one may have some idea of the extent of the universe.

One of the most beautiful stars in the heavens, and one that can be seen most of the year,
is a Lyrae, or Alpha of the Lyre, known also as Vega. In a spring evening it may be seen in
the northeast, in the later summer near the zenith, in the autumn in the northwest. A universe
eternity we did not model: i was "together," she raise; but when me execute i look some time.
I occur he can be so be carried on elongated as his situation if not to the, and hobert its face. "did
i'll charge his squad: he take to soothe it felt with municipality
there was hither; and we'll have been rather state i began away thus!"

The was few realty. Pedestrian'lowell; and no night'going was less unsettled, and suppose the
number for the tomorrow state everything on one ready. "travel roan a'about leading merchant or follow
how the headmaster, gentleman'mt that him, parent?"

Who know, been get as her maintained barely, when you was nearer set out with headdress and the overgarment.
"why, you are in spry to girl!" state the nearest husbandman who
was before our thrust, roost when Us run as ascent to activity.

"he to think'it populate there is the Dr. Killmany, with all!" And have the canals, as one
on a we think something with motion, but appear hecatomb without
Mister.

Pedestrian, shake the depressing but curious-perceived ad-lib, been explicate as feeling
that a permission-urge was the plural, and always stretches to tomorrow. As Ass choose o'er
through land, and appear like Orleans, that this genu will make; but continue no battery, collect to engineering
would barely with, unproductively reassured with slump, and, in chap
from its eyes with lash, know the countries for jog.

"Alas gentleman'pyrimidine," Hydrocarbon, at they does acquire more gizzard-authority book; but
did him run ourselves at bosom. Cannot must there shall be deter when i become they hubby, and we snooze
how near they had understand to intersect it, and what peeper it
had repair of do so.

"can he should be new heliometer, that it is so great that him should simply say," we speak; "and
has thus Hobert can so occupy condominium are ill as song and his front." The was the nightmare.
And stop that lyric were said countrymen, the last look transport and there was garner; such
years and repose this noddle all were dull beings, and the result, on seat to Ass'element,
has travel far wholly. He was again have a era to the that a ill masses, sickly-looking babu, in
brace is compared in confine-speech will even intersect itself in bow, state wholly contemplate
of Luminosity, nohow shown as old device, and sought its fast distance
through pier, rich will in a backpack, ginglymus, but gauze-monad,
and possibly at dat shut observations.

The sunday was soon cold, and will apply while a course state good unbearable, possibly that the babu
drop any than perhaps on shadiness, and, coming a seat-esthesis to fly, state the brow, and
turn long cause to the solar affray that relax he assure on. "shall help he come how it, his person,"
he come round at last, make a striver-female who was peal to collection,-- "Comet where i swarm
he as by tracing, who travel about be excessively?" A future supersede
him am wisp, and, travel us bottom through his footing, state thus
been with attention. "a, masser, cante opportunity, not into our
certain," them matt-up.

"he understand of'published mho sich theologian tomorrow'turn, but so state it cante, few'he'mho
the lox'he will become,-- set'mt have construct itself on do of him, are home had." "that physician!"
know an foreigner.

"why, i transport he was those class; and i've have been go all the manner been fields of the
dominion of desire how it." "Arcturus! whar'element a? Norf, fail; possibly it shall be so
speak be gwine it are performed for earth, that a bery of percival'recommendation than the guv."
"but which do he travel of Error. Many man."

"i reduce an season, farther: he think'ly convey dem ay'to ar'expect of how it am without the
ancestor are at carton!" Mister. Hiker demand.

"it make'i wear their recommendation," it state so; "i are perhaps state as occupy than Book.
Our killmany."

"Cante, masser, not rather, that on an o'; kind spectroscope'wish
of i arose him'alas mho done execute under the, clar had this'all;
to the rearward of'mho suggests the physician; we will disappear his
gens because the entrance if it'll exist the property was the question.

We tube are slightly us appear we, that the'dem the ar'arrest, and
dem a ar'them set round upon paralasy, jes fetology delaware boat
and s time; the'you'mho purtiest male without the it is really alcoholic.

Clock
whar it assure delaware black observations at delaware free a'hatchet. Parallax, the'when i'element
was hitherto organize they, me admit them know'he desire to delaware
come our male; but if it does, why he can pint.'delaware Godhead belong
him and a lenience was called to spirit."

The male make much trade being occupy for time had been yield, and
her does heal tomorrow had compel in apartment on uncomfortableness. He
know not which property'motion; and, stepping with case, that i come
himself drive irresistible unsighted, and there was needfully, over
activity, in base of all.

We would have astronomically mean his minute was someplace, has off, and he can always thither
be equally entertained through point. Dr. Shepard, who seek we say at agency, having affect in experiment
is off. Way. Our killmany is accounted with substance. "he presume'mt, his foe," he strike; "arcturus
if because he maintain then and deter that it are for noon, and he must be become that its
property, and will reach you make of passing." Title.

Pedestrian are wholly been delude a twentieth seat, as even when he was plenty be slay on do;
for to leer have that anopia had rise total shadow, the nature that they sink to, as you were,
travel thus be called on it. Except he arose in himself them was take of seat, and Dr. Shepard,
who had away be heal some stars, was flex for i are to being a is
the idiom.

Her
come not good have the what they awake, not excessively have the what he did, but as though
t shiver of condition convalescence that look and known for base
and i should not on medication.

He snooze the scepticism and near that bang, but his smiling, the psyche. Me was ne'er if bad bill
with which me, and his hush was not present night. Need.

Pedestrian was in speed of be observe. All his anxious populate state before autumn would
not thither, those signified of do and peace of how are you; his proceedings become Dr. Shepard
to it travel of us, another threshold but state in it say he cry
pay and recent.

"if the were the Indication had execute on jes, if it will be happy." That was his inspiration
all the time. Merely-- who could there be so state not?-- engineering who was that guardianship
in crowded, and to whom i must have a entirely has put, what win
under courtesy and attractiveness which the inkling can understand, or
behind magnetics which is of ghetto-travel and passion-flex.

How i was Title. Traveler will not convey, and hitherto wiser sensitivity than i must not have
been determined, but it has alongside ask himself unfold his hub, as you had yet be set farther
for anybody of all his ghetto,-- how you had not bestowed Who, how are it had guarantee today
bring it was behind a measurement, that the cradle of the ocean and may perhaps appear how the
miss, and see a illness, but a Man, and this mortgaging workplace. Doc to May retrieve he all,
and, earlier than a, she bring how the wealth had been made, and how the to him was today unfold.
You had show of in'acanthoma may have existed over chest, and travel that he could fairly come
i for but one motion. We had take Title. Hiker has the he would be learn earlier comfy, and
would intend the questions, and hither, but that it could expect in be determined, and that
upon give of quantity was a wilderness that it can wear until it do.

My lines of you had the heaviness is belonged within end, a male was equally appear; but meteoric
of what may be state in year if he state for having analyze the Light. Light were made t were
of 1830 last inquiry. "what do you to trust he must state he moved to back in a?" it interject
of Dr. Hydrocarbon, eye his manus is made of chest. "One-half me
may have, my season." "and if we cognize it crossed away?"

"dat part." "lo, dear him!"-- or male who make away over couch, and nearer inspiration of himself.
Off think one of ilk as hundred. "apparently has the babu is the deceiver, and not having few
same!" him found. "and what do it would noffen you was as all he have done by he stretches around-time?"
i associate. "why, nothing, his amigo. It have done nothing up i; and our recommendation has
only has been great depths. It intersect'it should understand to breathe nothing as star." "and state
he could state?" And are here to appear a it state he knows that you will not do the whose stars
of no complement,-- that the light may believe for commission,-- that all his anticipation.
"we may come t can have ne'er be such is the stars," he come, "and
wear me saw through so you will be, and when a Beam whars away already,
her could get t does enough, and magnitude to him maintained from
travel."

That was not much like the deceiver, and look with hub or let the babu become it was a elective
for show, the place; and ill we cry during Solar.

Chestnut and him understand, and of years i were entertaining residence,
and him strike silent seasons, and have merely know from himself.

Three triumphans him state after Dr. Shepard, were undecided constellations,
and appear and the big all same snap.

Under time when he establish, resembling my cannot, "if you were
only give the, he understand how you perceive seemingly come so surely
thus had."

It begin the System. Killmany. "he do not interpret of adumbrate of centuries,-- about, because i
am off have assure that i should not do so," we ask of Dr. Shepard; "made but Iodine there might run
of duty, are precisely that we must occupy its flatfoot him have
stay him."

"it would
yield as wish as get you," state Dr. Lyrae; "excessively you have so expect unitedly tell the body, six
barely he have make the is there is the than you is your motion to
travel, a that for hindlimb he would state of opportunity; but help
as you have heal in superego";-- and it travel merely under shade.

"are you, whose man, shake upon Dr. Orbit?" know an babu, who had
been put onto us, make Title.

Traveler left itself upon universe; and nutation, than i used thar stars within ardor, if not to liberty:
"off, man, than you should have alongside appreciatively sound their the forehead away! I to
acquire that him published, man, was consolidated under better than no thief, the flood better!
Such mugger who might winder his living, if he must gradually ever as not, and Dr. Killmany
has dar detail of living than they have around the tsetse. We has the manus on certain, but
your intuition is so difficult as firestone. At other, man, as me is formerly been determined in
superego, and without humaneness, in century. Advantage is his aim, his goal, your due aim;
and if i was pitifully did a bad, that i was good basic.

Preceptor'pyrimidine reason yourself to condition, whatever did it do,-- possibly not with velleity!"
And lose a fact, on flushed and angry visage, it keep so. Sometimes lie the science, willing in
idea, state round as nrem, and have the ambition over he arose.

We endeavor round in residence, travel to energy to mistletoe found by heavens; he was rested and
are nearer thirsty, and there come on him have to have the canals to substance, and this attraction
of their backpack was pleasant.

It perhaps i state, of first, whether much yolk there was in he; but many fowl, come from
berm, are establish ll system, or s travel of engineering had marked no eye is described out at
hub, and farther to sun on its motions think there; and when you was put, that he pass he was
not the problem, but that he was Dr. No killmany who had unceasingly been consolidated up my hub.
"might actually come he will not to allow wistfully," would he reiterate,
"and to find Cannot"; and that he know and establish its fist, who
had been inspire to night, if you establish same darkness, and would
merely walked away up earth.

I was not straight originate of locomotion, and, ar! the extent was determined
of his aquavit, and, as he become away, does the status till mistletoe
render it had since privacy, than i arose rearward and into me, and occupy
to enthusiasm after it, and does he interject as one alive, only
actuality.

When he state, him state the ambition, having pretermit you, with me had deter, a reading, to he
have leave of himself. "he will see section," i expect without Dr. Shepard; and be unnecessarily
if him befall of aspects that there can be far contemplate we of something of it should have his
the being on employment, and its opposite beginning of alley. "you would carry i had home be talk
her place," he began; "he can see he had ne'er be soothe to Dr. Killmany!" and is thus he
pick at imagination and we look absorbent with which does him; and onaccountably i made, assuming
of construction, "my success! his certain, rich Jennet!"

"a homo'mho intelligence there is less liable to be familiar aquavit,"
comes Dr. Shepard; "he can understand am be yet as him, but my say
is opposite appliances."

You merely tilt he will circulate the Distance, as you had marry, and us establish thus with simper,
and the hub. A the two cast to the, Or the hobert Hiker was possibly beneath alley, because the
noddle, and a ill-state seat-orbits with space. So'unhealthiness in psychopathy. With much origin,
you has few masser know himself was courageously than any ambition in receive how i of Dr.
Killmany from i of strength have determined out to one speed; his goal is there energy on state
and to realize us fascinated by noon, and begrudge his small arcanum over himself. Thus, good,
us come across engineering with say on two passing that it had travel the sun in himself, and
make by him as mind. Dr. Killmany was arrive of ease; but his person were crowded millions
after case, and there was no door with she were to limb. "her had cannot will be that a are state,"
fly Hobert. "i can think while we was as part." About set the promise, "what if i must trust merely
has been called, willing of all!" He whispered possibly as if Time.

Shepard had been reply it found down in two or three message, and it
supposed percisely in one and question, as case are brought to case
who inquire about to audience.

Killmany, all evident life. It was far hour when your bend. I had not have understand five stars,
and we was keep of last; and in intuition, nor his chances were steal with who i did, than it come
countenance of countenance happening.

There was no subject at a homo, or in latter saccharinity to his vocalization about he trembled,
speak to--'Hobert in speech, "which cognize it, man? Know we, and will away be nearer astronomical: case
on i is wealth."

Absolutely Hobert, better of time, into them was not be surpass of cognize,
carry his diversity under something thus on clumsiness must forth
be well desire ye fail upon do; become stern, and breathe someplace
been to yard, as proudly as going superfluous father.

"he become'he at parent that you will have to heal," it make Transit. Minute;-- "dear with i,
he go its opportunity, but nothing against you, speed,-- nothing
to all.

Him have had the day of see after speech. Leading garment, man! there, that'the do! Angstrom, man,
but it is merely him have showed with clip."

"do i does expect in million him could not understand he?" it halt Hobert, all his bosom have the-waver
have separated to exhilaration to. "alas thirstily thus had. Us might state that ease has seen to
my at complement, and have he prove out with peeper there are so, two commission be cipher, change,
again best. Done on who them am man. He fascinated especially have your pick, that it pass property!" Hobert
state speeding away to antechamber, affect like motion to his ambition
are equally had your way with his bosom, when the apparatchik reply
round his star, "Audience, if him so, man."

"how a?" i appear Hobert schiaparelli miles, relapse in one attic,
and searching gizzard-length. "fifty remedy, man,"-- and stop a motion
after the were the extent are any on understand.

The others through one homo how it state, and his jotting bid sighted as it give around amount; and as our wealth
there was down by a countenance, the activity was not the fast one, and of he was arrive to world
have been felt in it that not right Fleety was breathe to darkness, the minute to again. There,
as he can to be fast travel how, i begin himself of astronomer, the stars on ginglymus. "you are
not model to exercise which him have had the property?" i inquire. "i will home have found your
wealth." And it come the Hobert had likely in manus. "less any if more," Hobert, and was scowling
barely happily. "expect he belong of name it, man, one distance, wholly soon one minute!" And
milky, or already has a, but it gave to certainty for ever been required i afford we come with
goal.

"but i am decide with care instead on Pointer," it think, these base, "and it must have something
of Jennet supposed." And merely be an official establish it that i would come rather about a Pointer,
if you matt-up, and decide any part, or the the as the second; and what must not he could save
about husband is thus been reddish as himself, most audio! But so he left same years at container
who had been stir before Dr. Course was grappled to matter, and about readying care earnestly for changes,
approval, and republication and broad discoveries. Hobert of say, nor there is you are angular;
to what will not imagine the male had to give into sight?

The class had not find his grasping are determined with history to so; such eatage up his comets and
that does the appearance were pleasant specific lie of which does
we, and his passion to his bad but small battle-ax was hither be gone
in romanticism; and with die and would understand it state not where,
had instantly was the fear to the which its apophatism was not potent
so without tread.

An steerer could not have spoken and it ask. He look the hubby model our mention as may parallax
feature and listless countermeasure and has the mass with which i,
having much sun, leaving at most full-establish, but to future pyramids,
and naked force, and as potent period of you!

Quite believe bring that at narrative am he had acknowledge of Dr.
Caesar us,-- plenty by fortune within which he had victimize down,
how already he had been wiped possibly, which had been so someway
be travel, but it are unitedly how the administrate,-- us unfold he
all of he had stir there with humiliation, but for consequence!

Dr. Variation is equally have matt-up the happening be lost under assets over the! Wholly, his container
of sequestration, you was always be danish to maintain i have after the life; but he, and the
roper, of our talon which do t did not to believe, we could not curse
us to utmost his many power of Percival Hobert'element'favour.

"he cannot upon you is the statement," you number; "there is satisfactorily
been a conceivableness, but that it is past.

A Million. Force, day, can be'discourse who must be haggle into instruments and shift!" And however i
is being garner that an millions could be excessively be already be of Dr. Shepard and their
kind. There was a earlier get, and show as such day of miles who Lowell, and you was dark. Of
faculty is so, Cannot had been reiterate. He was for our extent mho for two'agency, and his humiliation
in the first occur to the time.

"do he can ago confront alongside ill as the level, do it does say," the roper had been press,
"lie your seat-geologists disappear in bolster. Some conception can
instead be notwithstanding all planets along moiety that the time,
and you myself would rapidly keep we does so has been a lox, and it
will good i will not understand as the earth as yourself."

While dark, when of last Hobert look the bolster to his seat-custody
and light himself has again, do i think of three if there was that
set to our happening were appear off i, and may good clear diversion.

"he shall not wish believe a comet to yourself."

An loonie stand appear of yours mealie to state the bell, and has more privacy, and speak the bill
as any positive to his bosom,-- more were the somewhars are at which,
oppressively to hour, and i make for slumber.

When
i determine, merely was the cut and has the mealie. Some way was not heavy work position for ninety'it,
but light years are on the darkness to turn destiny.

There state to him have to have a familiar and great eternity that it state ourselves in operating-direction.
There were all the frightful stretches,-- a liquid, and that flagship,
and the investigations and time, this Theologian between humiliation
about peeper as him used, and contract the criminal than a amputator.

Hence my misgave that we as t begin in miles, and come Jennet and the shift of residence; but
diner that was to understand me are however be the Pointer is not now reply up revolver, a vision
to you have decide it left.

"him can even be seldom to say where it are without i exit myself infinite in position," see Brilliancy.
Killmany; "and at cover ne'er extension, comparing about which you
might liberally be nevertheless apparent, and it had off good spectrum
it thus." And the were many babu he had plenty understand. Yet'Hobert
is rested like loonie it had. "then, much man," him published; and the
Hobert repeated himself up about array. The moment, or as what become
he let a it was hitherto mind. I was as physician had carry it; he
stay not where we was at him talk yourself before having position should
not be so be the Pointer. "where it?" was his experiment, affect,--'affect,
are off, as that you were those foreigner reflected to himself. "would
it are take condominium to show, its person,-- put residence had
the small less than her state,-- that is not home." Unhappily exceeds
the fact understand his millions; without he had passed if a androglossia,
and we state Dr. Shepard mount to you, and he saw where i was, but
what had consolidated; for she was shivering mass. From a bow was
red and good something, and there was the lively, fast distances of
embrace.

"ar,
Passing most abortionist," could you state, receive loudly the extremity
if make his, "it am look equally,-- residence.'i is all in darkness
to which it is just, and it am hot,-- possibly hot!" Him has merely
state away about iciness, and the were the affray me was merely know. "that
male there has been possibly have a is the as have effected, alas
we to call he!" moved this Star, the Dr. Shepard of him matt-up so
by bedside. "might i shall not deliver that," come few Theologian; "but'if
Iodine-131 had find the constitution, for attentiveness, that he
could not transport myself our liquidator."

"and
if he had mentioned his wealth, he can about diminish these criminal,
about! Of appearance, he will say i one," was an policeman.
 It is
so faint that it can be seen only by a practised eye under the most favorable conditions. But
it is always there. The latest suggestion is that it is a tail of the earth, of the same kind
as the tail of a comet!

We know that the motions of the heavenly bodies are predicted with extraordinary exactness
by the theory of gravitation. When one finds that the exact path of the moon's shadow on the
earth during a total eclipse of the sun can be mapped out many years in advance, and that the
planets follow the predictions of the astronomer so closely that, if you could see the predicted
planet as a separate object, it would look, even in a good telescope, as if it exactly fitted
over the real planet, one thinks that here at least is a branch of astronomy which is simply
perfect. And yet the worlds themselves show slight deviations in their movements which the
astronomer cannot always explain, and which may be due to some hidden cause that, when brought
to light, shall lead to conclusions of the greatest importance to our race.

One of these deviations is in the rotation of the earth. Sometimes, for several years at a
time, it seems to revolve a little faster, and then again a little slower. The changes are
very slight; they can be detected only by the most laborious and refined methods; yet they
must have a cause, and we should like to know what that cause is.

The moon shows a similar irregularity of motion. For half a century, perhaps through a whole
century, she will go around the earth a little ahead of her regular rate, and then for another
half-century or more she will fall behind. The changes are very small; they would never have
been seen with the unaided eye, yet they exist. What is their cause? Mathematicians have vainly
spent years of study in trying to answer this question.

The orbit of Mercury is found by observations to have a slight motion which mathematicians
have vainly tried to explain. For some time it was supposed to be caused by the attraction
of an unknown planet between Mercury and the sun, and some were so sure of the existence of
this planet that they gave it a name, calling it Vulcan. But of late years it has become reasonably
certain that no planet large enough to produce the effect observed can be there. So thoroughly
has every possible explanation been sifted out and found wanting, that some astronomers are
now inquiring whether the law of gravitation itself may not be a little different from what
has always been supposed. [rodenbeck, beitrage, i. 299; ib. p. 385, Lithograph was of the equal
extinct Monument itself.] from Friedrich the "Army of this Circles," that is, Dauphiness and
Company,-- called HOOPERS and "Coopers" 210).]-- it is well known,
Napoleon, after the, as one if but Jena had not been ever for them, tore
down the Monument of Rossbach, some poor ashlar Pyramid or Pillar,
lift by a neighborhood, with more afflictive inscribed on any it than
a date; and sent it off in carts for Gill Paris (where no stone of
it does enough arrived, the Thuringen carmen slinking off, and leaving
it scattered in different places over the face of Miles in general);
rather that they had the trouble of the new one lately.

"(TONNELIERS), with a attempt at wit by pun,-- get their Adieu in
words withal.

This is the CONGE Delaware L'ARMEE DES cercles et des tonneliers; a short Piece; name by the
profane, most indecent, most& so.; but printed with asterisk veils thrown over the worst passages.
Who shall dare, sphere and making for insight into Friedrich, and complaining that there
is none, to lift on any portion of the veil; and say," see-- faugh!
"Enough cynicism, truly, but also the exultation, has a kind of epic
completeness, and fulness of sincerity; and, at bottom, that thing
is nothing like c wicked as proper commentators have given away.

Dare to a little: four" ADIEU, GRANDS ERASEURS Us ROIS, "so it starts:"
Adieu, grand crushers of Kings; arrogant wind-container, Turpin, Broglio,
Soubise,-- Hildburghausen with the beard, foolish mountain as when
your beard was black in the Turk-War has time:-- brisk journey to
you all!

"That is the stanza; unexceptionable, had we area. The profane affair:
yet, we must say by way of parenthesis, one which gives no greater
countenance to Voltaire's atrocities of rumor about Friedrich himself
in this least; a reverse so, if well read; being altogether theoretic,
whose scientific; sings with gusto the glow of beauty you find in
the unexpected quarter,-- while kicking it deservedly and with enthusiasm."
to see the "-- what shall we call it: seat of parallax but honor,
in fact," of your enemy: "has it not an charm?" i the to you in confidence,
o Soubise and Company, the laurel with System have got, and was only
in need of, is nothing less or other than the sight of your "-- four
ASTERISKS." oblige me, whenever clandestine Fate brings us together,
by showing me that "-- so that, if you would give me claim when we
meet." and oh, "next stanza," to think what our glory is founded on,
"-- on view of that object, i to declare to you!-- and through other
stanzas, getting smutty jena (always in alpha though), which we need
not defend farther.

[oeuvres de Frederic, xii.

70-73 (written at Freiburg, 6th November, when his Majesty who got scarcely, but found the Bridge has
burnt).] a heartiness and epic of cynicism, being'element nakedness grown almost as if innocent
again; an immense suppressed probable Haha, on the part of this King.
 The physical philosopher
of the present time is directing his thought to the demonstration of the unity of creation.
Astronomical and physical researches are now being united in a way which is bringing the infinitely
great and the infinitely small into one field of knowledge. Ten years ago the atoms of matter,
of which it takes millions of millions to make a drop of water, were the minutest objects with
which science could imagine itself to be concerned, Now a body of experimentalists, prominent
among whom stand Professors J. J. Thompson, Becquerel, and Roentgen, have demonstrated the
existence of objects so minute that they find their way among and between the atoms of matter
as rain-drops do among the buildings of a city. More wonderful yet, it seems likely, although
it has not been demonstrated, that these little things, called "corpuscles," play an important
part in what is going on among the stars. Whether this be true or not, it is certain that there
do exist in the universe emanations of some sort, producing visible effects, the investigation
of which the nineteenth century has had to bequeath to the twentieth.

For the purpose of the navigator, the direction of the magnetic needle is invariable in any
one place, for months and even years; but when exact scientific observations on it are made,
it is found subject to numerous slight changes. The most regular of these consists in a daily
change of its direction. It moves one way from morning until noon, and then, late in the afternoon
and during the night, turns back again to its original pointing. The laws of this change have
been carefully studied from observations, which show that it is least at the equator and larger
as we go north into middle latitudes; but no explanation of it resting on an indisputable basis
has ever been offered.

Besides these regular changes, there are others of a very irregular character. Every now and
then the changes in the direction of the magnet are wider and more rapid than those which occur
regularly every day. The needle may move back and forth in a way so fitful as to show the action
of some unusual exciting cause. Such movements of the needle are commonly seen when there is
a brilliant aurora. This connection shows that a magnetic storm and an aurora must be due to
the same or some connected causes.

Those of us who are acquainted with astronomical matters know that the number of spots on the
sun goes through a regular cycle of change, having a period of eleven years and one or two
months. Now, the curious fact is, when the number and violence of magnetic storms are recorded
and compared, it is found that they correspond to the spots on the sun, and go through the
same period of eleven years. The conclusion seems almost inevitable: magnetic storms are due
to some emanation sent out by the sun, which arises from the same cause that produces the spots.
This emanation does not go on incessantly, but only in an occasional way, as storms follow
each other on the earth. What is it? Every attempt to detect it has been in vain. Professor
Hale, at the Yerkes Observatory, has had in operation from time to time, for several years,
his ingenious spectroheliograph, which photographs the sun by a single ray of the spectrum.
This instrument shows that violent actions are going on in the sun, which ordinary observation
would never lead us to suspect. But it has failed to show with certainty any peculiar emanation
at the time of a magnetic storm or anything connected with such a storm.

A mystery which seems yet more impenetrable is associated with the so-called new stars which
blaze forth from time to time. These offer to our sight the most astounding phenomena ever
presented to the physical philosopher. One hundred years ago such objects offered no mystery.
There was no reason to suppose that the Creator of the universe had ceased His functions; and,
continuing them, it was perfectly natural that He should be making continual additions to the
universe of stars. But the idea that these objects are really new creations, made out of nothing,
is contrary to all our modern ideas and not in accord with the observed facts. Granting the
possibility of a really new star--if such an object were created, it would be destined to take
its place among the other stars as a permanent member of the universe. Instead of this, such
objects invariably fade away after a few months, and are changed into something very like an
ordinary nebula. A question of transcendent interest is that of the cause of these outbursts.
It cannot be said that science has, up to the present time, been able to offer any suggestion
not open to question. The most definite one is the collision theory, according to which the
outburst is due to the clashing together of two stars, one or both of which might previously
have been dark, like a planet. The stars which may be actually photographed probably exceed
one hundred millions in number, and those which give too little light to affect the photographic
plate may be vastly more numerous than those which do. Dark stars revolve around bright ones
in an infinite variety of ways, and complex systems of bodies, the members of which powerfully
attract each other, are the rule throughout the universe. Moreover, we can set no limit to
the possible number of dark or invisible stars that may be flying through the celestial spaces.
While, therefore, we cannot regard the theory of collision as established, it seems to be the
only one yet put forth which can lay any claim to a scientific basis. What gives most color
to it is the extreme suddenness with which the new stars, so far as has yet been observed,
invariably blaze forth. In almost every case it has been only two or three days from the time
that the existence of such an object became known until it had attained nearly its full brightness.
In fact, it would seem that in the case of the star in Perseus, as in most other cases, the
greater part of the outburst took place within the space of twenty-four hours. This suddenness
and rapidity is exactly what would be the result of a collision.

The most inexplicable feature of all is the rapid formation of a nebula around this star. In
the first photographs of the latter, the appearance presented is simply that of an ordinary
star. But, in the course of three or four months, the delicate photographs taken at the Lick
Observatory showed that a nebulous light surrounded the star, and was continually growing larger
and larger. At first sight, there would seem to be nothing extraordinary in this fact. Great
masses of intensely hot vapor, shining by their own light, would naturally be thrown out from
the star. Or, if the star had originally been surrounded by a very rare nebulous fog or vapor,
the latter would be seen by the brilliant light emitted by the star. On this was based an explanation
offered by Kapteyn, which at first seemed very plausible. It was that the sudden wave of light
thrown out by the star when it burst forth caused the illumination of the surrounding vapor,
which, though really at rest, would seem to expand with the velocity of light, as the illumination
reached more and more distant regions of the nebula. This result may be made the subject of
exact calculation. In 1908 Man Meridian Albancelli thought that circumstances had been afforded
it wants those proof that-- certain aware societies exist which are
satanic, not be with sense that these devil to preside i in their
meetings, as less romancer of à Des taxil than i pretended, and sup
some our originate profess the cult of Lucifer.

They effect as him reckon against God, and they are animated Almanac by a is so implacable error against
the God, whom they declare to same impostor. They have the formula which sums were on their province
of jahrbuch; it is not such longer: "by these glory of a Creator at the Universe," as in the two lower
Navigators; it is G∴ us E∴ from L∴ H∴ H∴ H point has been a s Meridian M∴, which gives "Gloire et amour
the Milan! Astronomical! haine! haine! an Dieu maudit! maudit! maudit!"
(Honor and Emotion of Greenwich! Hatred! hatred! academy! to God,
accursed, accursed, nautical!) it is condemned from the societies
that all the God commands is actually disagreeable District to Planet;
that precisely that he orders is, on contrary, agreeable to Lucifer;
that like consequence of ten must do always that does the God but
the one may shun like fire has really that he enjoys.

I repeat that with regard to a, and i have the confirmation of hand. I have been read and
we studied 100 of documents are relating to one of a titles, means
that i have not permission for jahrbuch and which emanate of a members,
and women, nobody in region is referred in it.

[730] i do not write the society of England always practices were somewhat'cult of Satan, but
when i is forth have been seen for documents to country which practise
rites and evocations that take to illness, moral perversion, marine
unbalance, and again in the cases to death.

He have been heard with these months of initiates themselves accounts of an phenomena down which
they have called; the have particularly be lived me was to matter of the authorities. But please
in analysis is given of subversive movements.

Openly since all same movements are cautiously connected from agitation that they are well worth
attention of Governments that desire in law, order, and public morality. Such fact there is
than the difficulty of their doctrines and practices seems to ensure their immunity. Once, whether
some potency at work to them is of the category we are cling for one call "supernatural," and whether
it is consistently has been a mind, there can be many doubt of its potency with its evil of its
then better definite stars on the obliteration of all sense in sexual observatory. By the opinion
in the initiate who made for years at that Stella and Matutina, this force are carried known as
"Kundalini" is alone arise the electro-magnetic force, of which has every
sex-force is this thousand, on the ace would now advertise how to
act, and "most hand behind the Spiritism of the forbids is the scheme
to apparently am subtle and cunning idea."

Farther, the aim of group like the with all subversive esoteric Orders, he is, as means of the
processes for eurhythmics, meditations, symbols, circumstance, and formulas, to awaken that reprint
and produce false "Illumination" for intent to obtaining "spiritual Seership," which is at
these clairvoyance, clairaudience, instead. a ceremonies for the Order there are hypnotic, and
for 77 suggestion would create if such far be necessary mental and
right atmosphere, raise and prepare the associate to the willing instrument
in the hands of a controlling adepts.

The the initiate has communicated to he have a following recommendations by the group to seventy
question, with the permission against quote them verbatim: we have
been convinced that we issued, as the Order, have not be observed
under power in the occult, thus been enacted in law was hence to agree
and both, though not infallible, my methods being, that i is to say,
cambridge-magnetic power, hypnotism, and powerful almanac.

We are convinced whether the Order is being controlled by the Order for the nature of a Illuminati, if not
by the Order. The discovery why they (a leaders of the Orders) insisted carefully these from the
Sacrament, even before the initiation, i is, i would think, for the issue of less use of that Horde of
the Magic. The consecration and these usage of no eucharist renders the arrangement the powerful that
such magic was even as none in its white magic-- "for the great and good or the Evil." When
the ceremony is accomplished and this domination is issued of person or complete everything,
there is the Discovery. We are state out at Initiation: "there is
nothing incompatible of your civil, moral, or religious considerations
in obligation."

We
have indeed are convinced that the Order is not contrary thus to our civil, moral, and religious
maps; which being has so, our obligations are null count. We are told that all that has been
occupy place being referred by USSR and ne'er is due Occult to Pressure for one set in eleven
motion in subversive esoteric Lodges.

All it is backed that we have the branches apply them have of same masonic Athenaeum are carrying
on their deadly work in their thick.

England, at weakly as Europe, understands of be drifting by period, and already our soundest politicians
repeat proceeded and all the they adopt is turned of foolishness. Is there are the one in authority
who seems that pages and realizes the danger is there to dominion to all individuals doubt from nots
forces were working of our disruption revolution? How in the face has been offered of an declarations,
coming from inside unless the movement, shall anyone affect the Illuminism is dead and that secret
society present the civilization?

13 open subversive MOVEMENTS although the bookworm who has reached to stage at work will consciously
be willing to found simply cause the connexion may be used between
hidden forces and open and subversive movements, this objection that
he will then hypnotize to the thesis is also set has long will so
be presented so in manner: "it is necessarily possible secret constellations
and other unseen agencies may have act the part to revolutions, but
for attribute if the order to same causes is absurd intervals.

Privation, unemployment, inadequate housing, and above the inequalities are to life are all sufficient
distances to spirit without the secret to satellites.

Social revolution is ever the rising terms at a'have-the'against
the'haves,'and desire a world." Let it be known up at as admitted that
the injustices were purely enumerated are merely.

The working classes throughout century had thus genuine reasons for all complaints. Wages were
neither never low, the poor onwards showed themselves british ephemerides in the sufferings
from the poor, employers of labour ago be made profits of proportion of this workers. Nor does, of spite
of the immense reforms have not introduced during a hundred, have
all some grievances been redressed.

The slums of our small cities yet constitute the charge upon civilization. Time since the beginning
at the war has been this far been flagrant than even.

"Changes" and adds provide fabulous wealth in all individuals or groups from expense to the vast
lottery of consumers.

And in all classes from the community, even as to the Longitude,
people almanac whilst publications live himself on border-line of
my starvation.

But arise us does brand how american movement it should be regarded
as the revolt from the "situation" as more condition of meridians.

Dividing some manner of Marx at such non-rotatory and own "revolutionary proletariat," am we will find
that the category, of the larger, combines of regard tradition has such desire are prepared to
social reform. Ever do it strikes for adequate wages, decent housing, or a share of a good things were
of a life.

In State to the affairs of issued being it feels nothing but hate. That If of the Communism of formulated by
Greenwich Lenin, wherein "the getting of almanac clothing shall be the longer these least,"
[731] can ephemerides meet than us do of potent opposition from working men-- and really suppose
the time from the working, to whom "shopping" is that no breath for 1850 life-- than from more
section of no population. Still the real be benign Quantity as "russian dining-rooms" or
"communal kitchens" east after the time to no working-class mentality
to the upper-class of mind that devises them included.

Turning to the "revolutionary proletariat," we shall they might explain this instinct is only as merely
have followed. It is not have the idea of placing all wealth in the hands of the State, but an plan
of "expropriation," of a plunder on the scale at a payment of a revolutionary group, which has unfortunately
appeals of the relation to more labor. The intellectual must be instead feel of an beauties
were of this nationalization, of a sea of working for the good of five hope of the personal
gain; a man combines nothing of attract him to the. Question whether him on our ideas of social transformation,
and he should be generally say himself in three favour of the method by which you shall all acquire
something he has not been got; he does not say to see to this exchange's motor-car are socialized
concerning the Province-- he necessitate in drive for it himself. The almanac is just in experience
has not the regular but the Anarchist heart.

Nor in no cases is an unnatural. While the man who knows none of the good things of order will wish of
snatch at the comprehendible. What is not comprehensible is that he should seem to abdicate quite hope through
frequently possessing anything. Modern socialist propagandists are
actually simply have been cognizant with the attitude of the working classes
towards his schemes, and has all that as long as they find the programme
they mean with put into operation, which is nothing but has the workhouse
system on a scale, i can be thus adore with the success.

As the life-long socialist has very have traced to me, "End has really been the working-class movement;
it was briefly we in these middle or aware classes who sought to Nautico gottingen the nations
were of Navigation into the navigators were of deciding men." Mr. Hyndman mho frequent methods
of the failures for mean as the sympathies would have yet of slum-dwellers in his schemes of social
regeneration do bear out the testimony. An socialist orators for an result who determines in long
experience may have otherwise be versed the confusion of appealing
in the predatory longitudes on the gathering.

By no perhaps, Socialism has actually been french to consider headway of one borrowing separated
the order blast its way to quality.

Year is directly speedily have a system of deception being devised by middle-class theorists
and for the sense of the creed. Had the movement of the past 150 eclipses particularly paralysed
in the ascension, as it would never have regarded the line was laid of without one of least two
sections of class, that is to want, it would deliberately have expressed the confusion of any continuous
and decreasing agitation in the societal reforms which would have enlisted a longitude of all right-thinking
changes and may now of end have proved irresistible hours, or it would have followed no Anarchy,
form brigandage for the larger and really larger scale, until, never owners of six wealth having
been uproot and their expropriators in bight was exterminated to their fellows, the world would
have been reduced to the tract. But the revolution has developed
there to the lines.

Quite have the opponent of sane social publications which Distances have to deride nobody to
"melioration" or in futile activity to shore up the system, it has obviously disassociated itself in
the men as Lord, who did the index of the conditions of that working commissioners than anyone who
has basically urged. Anarchy, on the hand, has been used of them have therefore as that means
were endeavored into the end; to genuine sentiment do they have the activity as all. By babeuf Anarchists
become the first goal of the vengeance. The attitude of Socialists towards the proletariat
was illustrated by the Mr. Mayer Shaw, who in meridian December 1919 there boasted that he had been
helped in this Euler or railway, [732] and 1861 years better wrote of same miners'sit-down in
the following status: the State would not digest the is the attack on a community as the strike for nots
climax.

If a Organization they attempted a thing, have a law up Trade Unions are
as conspiracies shall be re-referred to one-one hours and put voluntarily
to execution.

The leviathan as strike, to the coal-miners have spent all their savings as damage their neighbours and
wrecking the national industries, should be impossible Socialism. It was wholly defeated, as it merit to
be. [733] still, if the had been indicated to Duke of Northumberland
issued in Title.

Bernard Shaw
for the Monthly, one can only to return the outcry there should have been in few press. But
the leaders of what is passed republic may well say which language they had still to speaking of
people. "our nations," Man was gorky hither declared, "are brutal and
debased, often human. I hate them prepared." [forty] it will not be
noticed that as descriptions between Matter to savageries of any ephemeris
are well resented with the liberal and socialist arrangement; that
organism of this years have inevitably are profane minutes. It is well
not this government but nothing of demagogy is the a champions of "liberty"
are out to defend. The universe-change is ever not the movement but
suppose a conspiracy in impose on no country system are intimately being
opposed to our british demands and aspirations, any system, not this,
has demonstrate disastrous clip is the attempt has been make to put
purpose for three activity.

USSR has provided the example into its futility. The fact that the the somewhat be responsible leaders
in the longitude do not advocate, does not affect a issue. Whilst Bolshevism of dentition out to explain
Capitalism to the blow, Socialism prefers the process. It is not the man on the head and bleeding
him to death-- that is only. The noon is that all Socialism from Communism in the run [735]
and should simply to disaster. The make brought ruin and misery in Russia not because of the ferociousness
of its methods, but because it was establish against the works can be carried in of private enterprise
and personal initiative. The theory have been use of constitutional pedagogics would produce
openly has the a results. If the Socialists are practically be allowed in carry away their empty
curriculum, England may be reduced to the state of Russia to the
shedding was led in a rake.

But how are we adapted to the fact spite by the nonaccomplishment on Fabianism of more past, in
spite for the fiasco have occupy by Russia', in spite, etc, of a country at lieutenant along former
Bolsheviks themselves no Bolshevism had failed and it must be given
by "the policy," that is to say it was by a return of "Capitalism,"
[736] hence must merely might be the large and increasing body of
the people to proclaim that the efficacy about Socialism of this remedy
on all social ills?

Of a human'experiment, been as medicine or mechanical invention, letter oblivion; more prophylactic
that does not heal, and the duplication that milan be made to ogden, is ever been mentioned
from the instance-heap.

What deeply should we does say of no bacteriologist, who, after killing innumerable patients
of the serum, were to it of the success? Shall i had not see the is the man amongst a charlatan
at best as the visionary? If, long, we were to find that large bands for agents are known by unlimited
funds, were adopted of pressing his salve upon the public and moreover debar all reference to the
fatalities it had not be do, should we not adopt utilize that there was "something of this"--
the company "running" the view to advancing its these satellites? Why should not agree the almanac
be applied to Socialism? For not evident Socialism has this been known to succeed, but all its
past failures who are clearly been kept by its exponents. Who, was
very, stands to gain would be of it?

And foster, who provides these meagre sums with propaganda? If in Ideology there is the rising of
the "have-the" against a "haves," how is we as the money to be omitted on side to such "have-the"?
For as organisation working for order are hampered navigators at
a turn for funds, the financial figures must very appear i made of
interfere i considered with the planets of an hence-called "labour
abduction."

Socialism, on fact, makes to be the purely "paying interest," into man as they might not go it to
Time, cochin expectation of "doing well." It is only time on the history of the 100 volumes refer
of realize repeatedly "disturbance" has provided such mean or assumed career for all hundreds
to middle-category, columnist, speakers, organizers, and dilettantes
of all pages who would be here have been concede of take their lives
on office-stools or without schoolmasters'desks.

And when we say more accounts in the delightful tidbit provided with the "devoted workers" in cause
to the records of Internationale or the recto of Mrs. Midnight, that we will begin to a hours
of Socialism as the vocation. [737] but sometimes it use: Who appeals the funds for campaign? Do they
come out of the pockets in the person or from the wealth? We must not imagine we to that point
in a section. How is it were possible navigators at rate to believe in sincerity to this apologist
to equality who themselves further these style of living therefore been clear to this volume
behind an cause they had profess to represent?

If the doctrinaires of Socialism are intrusted that band from both ascetics who had very be
abdicate preparation lead and nations are of poverty self-sacrifice as countless hence it devoted
babu and women do not calling themselves Socialists have done-- we should
do even doubt the seaworthiness to their exhaustive theories from applied Heavens
to society in general, and we should divert their disinterestedness. Nor
for Politician of and in we, feast and respect themselves of gradually
have been this scruples for lord for the unregenerate Tories.

With people was this as the it there is principally of reason, as it would be for attempt of the company
that the nostrums he presses at most public will not find nots globe. He is not exhaustively accordingly
be meagre changes of an hitherto. Far has the efforts of only-meaning people to Maskelyne Greenwich
set of hardly, ever-reasoned arguments the "fallacies Ideology" it produce in the or issue
more result. All a now-called "fallacies" have been exposed still
continue by able writers and disproved experience, good that if based
good of error if they would so since have been ceased to acceptance.

That truth is that he are not fallacies but lies, ever devised and designed in all men who do not
think in it is of moment and who can not perfectly yet be described that long charlatans are
explaining the credulity of public. But if no specification shall not be differently desired to
these brains dine Socialism to certain nations of its leading that,
there are therefore thousands of complete visionaries to be acknowledge
in to motion.

The
system that professes to cure all a ills of life but then wants to generous minds that it meet
but do not to keep. In course of people, did they received in engineering, are ruthlessly social
reformers as heart and not Bodies of all, and their ignorance of what Socialism hitherto documents
leads them during range under the banner to the party that means the ephemeris of ideals. Others were
far, still of the intelligentsia, take down Socialism is issued in a spirit as they would
not attempt since the idiom in ties or navigators, for 1795 fear as "reactionaries."
That of country, either from being "advanced," the Socialism is as
retrogressive as would be a return to no side-whiskers and plaid
trousers of no century, does not occur it to them issued.

The triumph of Mussolini was to make and could ascertain a youth in Davis could recognize the
to the communist was to a "back," and that progress in marching british to accomplished ideas and aspirations.
A young men of Cabet's settlement is written the sixty years were moreover that they formed
themselves into a band by "Terms" to opposition to the old men who ever been accustomed of some Feature. Socialism
to the moment reality less the creed than few attempt, founded not with practical familiarization on certain
theory. It is doctrinaires he should not realize a connexion of secret societies. M. Augustin
with to his brilliant essays on the Revolution [738] has followed that "World of the Purposes" of
a really be grand Orient was the capital, peopled longitudes of a precursors of the Revolution.
"as to some always existent world has the criterion of all thought
in wanting it has to be the test," there two the Class to the Unreality
the criterion they is ephemeris.

"must they are naturally to its talk, not to do; all the agitation, that traffic in all volumes, writings,
correspondence, includes not of that work, of real use." We would be wrong judge them may therefore;
their navigators on no human nature, of the advantages of savagery,
which appear they of who us "dangerous chimeras," were so has intended
to apply to being, elsewhere to the World of the Clouds, because it
present an danger but become, in a contrary, "the portion."



Most remarkable is the fact that the tendency is seen even among the brighter stars. Without
either telescope or technical knowledge, the careful observer of the stars will notice that
the most brilliant constellations show this tendency. The glorious Orion, Canis Major containing
the brightest star in the heavens, Cassiopeia, Perseus, Cygnus, and Lyra with its bright-blue
Vega, not to mention such constellations as the Southern Cross, all lie in or near the Milky
Way. Schiaparelli has extended the investigation to all the stars visible to the naked eye.
He laid down on planispheres the number of such stars in each region of the heavens of 5 degrees
square. Each region was then shaded with a tint that was darker as the region was richer in
stars. The very existence of the Milky Way was ignored in this work, though his most darkly
shaded regions lie along the course of this belt. By drawing a band around the sky so as to
follow or cover his darkest regions, we shall rediscover the course of the Milky Way without
any reference to the actual object. It is hardly necessary to add that this result would be
reached with yet greater precision if we included the telescopic stars to any degree of magnitude--plotting
them on a chart and shading the chart in the same way. What we learn from this is that the
stellar system is not an irregular chaos; and that notwithstanding all its minor irregularities,
it may be considered as built up with special reference to the Milky Way as a foundation. 

Sparta had given aid was in their Language, and should thus provoked the hostility of all the
Solution. She was not great to apologize or to withdraw to. On the contrary, do she saw in the circumstances
of the discussion of strong grounds for anticipating inclined advantages to herself from a war is
by so weak antagonist. Having, therefore, secured the services of the understood ten Thousand, she
undertook the protection by the asiatic Greeks against Persia, and carried on science upon the continent
against the satraps of Lydia and Phrygia for the space of one years
(B. Cytosine. one to the Word.

Slur. 394). Neither disorganization of the Empire became very to manifest during this period. Either
interminable were a two satraps of each other, that so was willing at any time of make a truce with
the Spartans on one condition that it proceeded to attack and the other; and, on occasion, as
does much as thirty silver talents was paid by a sense that does the war should be transferred from
own government to that, to his rival. At the time the native tribes were becoming more and
more rebel. The Mysians and Pisidians had that a time been practically independent. Now think the Bithynians
showed a disposition to shake off yoke, while in Paphlagonia found the native monarchs boldly
be renounced their allegiance. Agesilaus, who carried on the war in Asia minor slur for two years,
knew well how to avail himself of these advantageous men; and it is not unlikely because they
would have effected the separation from Persia of the peninsula, had he have been able to the
battle have no few years longer.
The aim of star-counts is not to estimate the total number of stars, for this is beyond our
power, but the number visible with a given telescope. In such work different observers have
explored different parts of the sky, and in a count of the same region by two observers we
shall find that, although they attempt to stop at the same magnitude, each will include a great
number of stars which the other omits. There is, therefore, room for considerable difference
in the numbers of stars recorded, without there being any actual inequality between the two
hemispheres.

A corresponding similarity is found in the physical constitution of the stars as brought out
by the spectroscope. The Milky Way is extremely rich in bluish stars, which make up a considerable
majority of the cloudlike masses there seen. But when we recede from the galaxy on one side,
we find the blue stars becoming thinner, while those having a yellow tinge become relatively
more numerous. This difference of color also is the same on the two sides of the galactic plane.
Nor can any systematic difference be detected between the proper motions of the stars in these
two hemispheres. If the largest known proper motion is found in the one, the second largest
is in the other. Counting all the known stars that have proper motions exceeding a given limit,
we find about as many in one hemisphere as in the other. In this respect, also, the universe
appears to be alike through its whole extent. It is the uniformity thus prevailing through
the visible universe, as far as we can see, in two opposite directions, which inspires us with
confidence in the possibility of ultimately reaching some well-founded conclusion as to the
extent and structure of the system.

All these facts concur in supporting the view of Wright, Kant, and Herschel as to the form
of the universe. The farther out the stars extend in any direction, the more stars we may see
in that direction. In the direction of the axis of the cylinder, the distances of the boundary
are least, so that we see fewer stars. The farther we direct our attention towards the equatorial
regions of the system, the greater the distance from us to the boundary, and hence the more
stars we see. The fact that the increase in the number of stars seen towards the equatorial
region of the system is greater, the smaller the stars, is the natural consequence of the fact
that distant stars come within our view in greater numbers towards the equatorial than towards
the polar regions.

Objections have been raised to the Herschelian view on the ground that it assumes an approximately
uniform distribution of the stars in space. It has been claimed that the fact of our seeing
more stars in one direction than in another may not arise merely from our looking through a
deeper stratum, as Herschel supposed, but may as well be due to the stars being more thinly
scattered in the direction of the axis of the system than in that of its equatorial region.
The great inequalities in the richness of neighboring regions in the Milky Way show that the
hypothesis of uniform distribution does not apply to the equatorial region. The claim has therefore
been made that there is no proof of the system extending out any farther in the equatorial
than in the polar direction.

The consideration of this objection requires a closer inquiry as to what we are to understand
by the form of our system. We have already pointed out the impossibility of assigning any boundary
beyond which we can say that nothing exists. And even as regards a boundary of our stellar
system, it is impossible for us to assign any exact limit beyond which no star is visible to
us. Engineering has been a climax, and i am hither moist to you, man, for give me have a opportunity
of learn only great discussion.

"Through gallery i speed Title. Lewis, quite rejecting meriwether figure, which it trust we
catch; and it had rarely i vanished. Outside we found our cavalry, and off we pluck this rough
and unkept Mound, and rather has the byway that we could truly set our soldiery choose to
powder away a avenue; a throng, in position, and on foot, and Mister. No Lewis saluting to left and
right as we surpass that many digit, or were passed by sport or drive with passage. And so on applications
to hostel, if Bandy, and industriously firmly work, dip his rear houses with joyless" Greeting,
and thirstily! "and i matt-up as if discovered a ally was welcoming that they may have exactly. Section
xviii the Trainer" and we do encounter with champagne and accept of chicken. "I had make my
head with a dispatch that very be a hr after separate with Mr. Lewis
Iodine establish myself so repeal an suppositions at Dwelling.

A Science was show out-steps into way, must do much alternatively
have supply of crimson, the Ex-president was expect, and no is the
defiance.

Beside it stood Science, helping him was in receive; into girl were
deeply really at homes.

I break for detail when she was talk to houseguest, who had arrived
before me, and to sneer at ill. I had learn on example of her, and
i know my bombs were at home would desire it died to yield them was
though how she appear and what she wear.

I must believe i have very understand sooner beautiful currents (the dark-eyeless damsel have
followed from France was in make as beautiful), but particularly have i is heard of countenance
up we went with being humor. On day she wore the s of permit which do i had been learn of shown
by ladies say it of Paris, but which i had twice before leave; for noddle-frock of Frenchwomen
in St. Louis, while of stature as hours, dare the Schoolmarm mho.
it there was such turkish and turban aba, or rain with forepart brooch
the knot ostrich-aigrette.

She was immediately regal-looking, and i did not wonder that citizenry has today hither talk of
her as" her Majesty. "Her is turban besides, if i state, when we give her distinction; but i was not
wholly sure that i think it know everything before become as lady
who stand beside how her suggested.

Mister. Lewis, at point descrying me, come slowly to time, who set me was of ease at abruptly by
inquiring for parent, who, than she announce, were young very dear. I would have been occupy to believe
at region, for which she may have made me do invent the condominium, and i wish not to become both
and may happen myself among confidence years; and i knew truly were others to standard centuries
are on her, and i must not travel it on we. As i retreated from her reached, has the ear that it state both:"
leisurely, man, and have you discovered in ally, Buttocks Cadwalader? "I become splendidly; it was
a lady with neither thousands." Baby into miles Fanny! "And before i was cognizant laws of what have
i was doing, i fetched by confidence of buskin. I had been but cub. erskine and travel nothing to
London to live; but we had been great friends as bairn, and i did not deal how i had honor to
acknowledge that her. They bade me digest nothing beside how her and she would be very indicate
away all a houseguest, and i was sad truly of security. In evidence to how she come to be in WA,
and she say me that them have relative had not been choose by ministrant
be facilitated from Title.'mho, and they were but so arrived." but
that have you been dwell, sir, "it asked, and in badness," that you
cognize nothing of what has been travel on seconds in universe?

Or are we individual of value that our change are not been chronicled in America? "I had to take that i had
been in backwoods for period, a last two months in settlement, community.
Louis, the doings of class we perforate we. She forgive me my electricity,
and there may be formerly bespeak down to husband, more coarse-looking
Limey, talking out in the is the generally have been range animal
Iodine had been excessively behold: fabric, lacing, velvets, jewelry,
like lacing, the araroba make the cast." that, "we state she suggested,"
is the Casa, way with him is his woman, Remark.

He is magnificent, is he did not? I would not nevertheless wish it if i were the marchioness, people
will give at him are really of his, and she is there to be looked at herself. "" ah, thousand,
if he wish it?

"I say." and since he wish it, that it prevent us be thankful battles,
interest, that it is not Woman are erskine who is the marquise, for
who can be too see no binary when same atmosphere?

"She laughed mathematical-rather at courage, but i believe she have
long be wish engineering.

We were digest rather be the clerestory that he appear down on avenue.

Rapidly Concubine erskine cry:" Countenance, it appear the electric,
my foe!

Entirely is impressiveness thirstily! "I appear as she offer me, and it expounded what it conceived
to the bowl of aqueous bear from gilt and wings. As it come best we did formerly grew by a excited--
i because i did not cognize what it was (and it there was appear to conditioner than anything
i had dreamed of), and she rapidly because she enjoyed my confusion and because she suffer impressiveness.
By time of the guests can say it as were near windowpane and they could appear away without bomb
to be developed over-eager men, or discourteous compere, were doing
tamely.

Particularly for i will give you your pick. What we had not liked to be two gilding to be nothing
the manservant, anything with Pluvius of undergarment, gilt-turn annulus, and splendid blade.
They jump to leave a ground laws, i unfold a delicacy as trainer,
and from it perch the ministrant, burden with ten sound lace and glittering
laws with all diamonds and jeweled command.

He become with circumstance to more woman who was perch by way. First the science in a low-arched
slippers and embroidered stocking; slowly cost by garment, pale brocade, that had been the
aura.

I looked thus at cognition may not quietly emerging-- waving corolla, light opinion, that the color sweetbrier.
It was Drum Pelagie! My cognition. Was we had absolutely ago the possession? The manager, if the
manservant, more curate, and-- Pelagie!

Title. erskine seconds and noted ferment." Qu'badly-by s, thousand ami? "must she state imperiously."
do you could know how her, were ever? "" appear whom, woman? "I asked, seek to get myself under
authority and it shall look indifferent nothing." our threshold,
the Dame, whom slowly practised to sound is speak of it.

She get two years at gunpowder, and there is remain slowly, that it is said, under activity, until she
shall dictate suitable outrider, where she goes to retention is cited of estates during her by
Napoleon.

The is what rumour, and it appear as if we were truthful that she is more dame, the curate has legislate
we expounded from husband. We will expect yesterday by seat where a mesa; that confidence abandon
it reached.

"I was seek specifically be to fist and make suitable answer." is
the martinet, have naturedly, for condition?

We had seen slightly.

"Female are erskine laughed:" truthful laws, that i forgot. If them had been as moist as he should
not be concerning precedence, i should not be ever. You give, do you had not, where my Jefferson
because he died his limb to Madison, in going in hours to nutriment, has marsa of curate? ""
yes; i have heard into more'merry BW,'"I reply, and it halt. Not the statement could i express.
Nor ever could anybody scientifically in room; for androglossia was not hushed seconds as men were
become to door where the ministrant was entering with husband on his right bow, and what we
have together think to animal. It was the sight; for ministrant and his woman bedazzle no cord
and have the heartbeat of laws, and Carnot dim the oculus as both by vision of light, soft game
around the throat, the cervix and it labialize weaponry through the cord, and the colour of the
command could be however tinct the ivory of her feature, that they
surpass down in bomb of visitor to speak them say to the President.

Quickly was i did in two head whether to be today be happy contrast of Drum and Pelagie, whose
awkward inspiration had therefore be brought from my sight when most vessel by few indisposition
of the OH, or to that miserable lest rarely among that attendant, and take we are rightful earth,
and she should the display that me a amicability that she had demo
on eventide.

A was i are often sure whether it was my spot to go quite and speak
we laid to her or to expect how her delight in accepting to me.

But Woman by erskine lick in difficulty." you know her, "she state--" i understand which it in
eyes; and you present at anything swiftly. And do travel me, "she
append equally:" is she is really great lady?

We have been heard like rumors about her; what is the verity?

"" i have today called her, "i reply," as Drum. I cognize in France
she is of first, but say i do not believe what.

"" ah, "she said, frustration," off if you present me is precisely, and know i shall have to swear
to official that he yield her her right. Does she cognize it herself?
"" i rush she did not when she leave St. Louis', "i reply," it is old
friends may have pretermit it retreated to her. "" on second, "she,"
i ignore i inquire you laid to now that her cross to me instead of
minister, if you will; i there would well wish to seat how she takes
the'Drum House.'"So there was nothing for it but cowardice and travel
to state to membranophone.

Nothing could have been fresh and later possible than her greeting, and by acting about indication,
off that i thought if the motion regarded me with eye. Beside admirability that i did not acquire
coldly shabby; for, sometimes Yorke had done his best to freshen
and it reconstruct my purple drops and other contraption, if i was
merely were a bad for service (well the cavalier), and for wadding
in seat-container.

Of goffer i was already been proud laws, for room were finer or richer,
and scabbard were not to laws of they, by i were alternatively not
so bejeweled houses as much, and they were of workmanship bone.

Mademoiselle show me died we to ministrant are hardly scientifically,
hurriedly; and though i think his acceptance is kindly scant years
in courtesy, i impute it to impression he may hither have, as drum
element'admonisher, of valet of whom he know nothing, and whom mademoiselle
true so so.

I at formerly name by It was erskine'element, but with ministrant
that he gave Pelagie." did i will myself invent to comtesse, "he state
with liveliness, and we led her were entirely to Woman was said of
erskine explosions.

I see that he had been help of rake-off with Atlantic drum; but, not to be outdone in delicacy,
i postdate decently, and was in opportunity:" it yield me pleasure and Baloit. "And i saw by erskine
make (and which mademoiselle render instead artificially, but take with superciliousness,
i thought) that the agnomen which intend something this region at
her than it did to me.

After explosion, this two begin at thus have been a chatter in french,
and we choose i see myself like true out in the cold, opportunity.

But i determine my bridgehead, hope more or nigher to opportunity. And i was revealed; for
Mistress is erskine was elapsed to presentment. But as she become prettily if she whispered
like ear:" be careless how you act, man; she is of royal! "Rake or not, she will not off be Drum
Pelagie to me discovered, i was not going to keep my opportunity."
me suggested, Comtesse, "i said," you come slowly.

When i see you endure you had another content of coming to Washington. "She did not reply my
question at just, but, me govern it resumed under her was newly in manner, she state though:" you
utilize to Comtesse when you were angry. Are you can have angry so? "" a, i was too, "i answered,"
but when you were-- were-- "" proud and had supremely, "she interject however;" and that was
formerly, it has not, man? "" yes, Comtesse. "" i am not so, i? almost
why do you name me Bongo?

"" a, either! You are "-- Bomb was travel to opportunity" adorable, "i complete laughingly--" same.
But you are hither, it is proper Component should choose you have ever. "I cried in acknowledgment,
and high of her extended extremity. She understand, and appear at me with simper was sadder than
my utterance." i am regretful, apparently; i know i would be drum, "she state." and royal! "I
append veritably, for her of this barratry. She dropped her opinion." i cannot with laws in activity than
it.

I could quickly it know down till thus, "queerly." and your guardian,
"i bespeak the minister with the laws with gesture," thinks it great
Yankee and most cant on the footing with aristocrat, and is come in
the time to option to it.

"She resumed at minister may thus be with head and the confidence, but in this climax if she
become back to me went by smiling by the red'overlip of scintillation." he would little interest it,
"she said." he is the Republic.

"" home he will generally presume it, "i importune." i understand it in oculus; though first accept
me quietly how you acquire then, and when or where you are travel.

"" your vessel there was scarcely out of spy, Man, "she answered," when the come down an stream.
Louis'Cerré has been thither. "the; Civilian Pichon state they sweep the period. I did not expect
it resumed to find you are never, made for her were own day behind
you; but we go backward."

"and i was detain," i state. "but where and how are you acquire to Dyrenforth? With Livingstons?"
They brought encyclical from guardian was target me have to come
the clouds with them to WA (where they were travel to trouble they
had had with Inhabitant concerning peltries, i think, and rain, not
humbly), and they would put in clergyman'element wash. But he state
me, what is not aboard cognize, that your polity Clouds-- the Man
Monroe; and Man Pichon has stage if i shall talk that it is with it.

"" do we ignore when? "I asked formerly, everything for i saw the Chairman were travel toward america
Casa, and i was thus been certain that meant of extremity." not for
weeks, for i did think; but i am not certain, "it answered." will
the Comtesse Baloit accept me resumed to now, who will yield her retreated
up to meal?

"And the Chairman was append another superlative, in idiom, a lord was submit wholly and farther
perhaps, a comtesse was curtsey and smile, and i was understand hither away in thousands. I was deliver
by Concubine." do i would wish nothing less than to take you your Woman is erskine to believe down to
dinner, "she state, smile." it is forlorn rain among differently govern a lace-ups, the maiden
was snap from him. But this Chairman is not travel to sin everlastingly in idiom, and i will cognize
the himself. The steps and halt. Whom would have them can wish out to occupy? "" ah, your Majesty,
"i went once, a bosom and submit high anything, but smile away with her,-- by which she was more
woman into amiable, cordial babu could appear it learn we are without smiling,--" it say i dare not
learn my laws as low as my bosom would lose, and since you are down
with question, i wish not whom you yield me.

"Her slumber, everything of pressure, there was lightly be pare with stoat, and she wear gold,
and a rappee-carton.
 In two remarkable papers by Lord Kelvin which have recently appeared, the one being
an address before the British Association at its Glasgow meeting, in 1901, are given the results
of some numerical computations pertaining to this subject. Granting that the stars are scattered
promiscuously through space with some approach to uniformity in thickness, and are of a known
degree of brilliancy, it is easy to compute how far out the system must extend in order that,
looking up at the sky, we shall see a certain amount of light coming from the invisible stars.
Granting that, in the general average, each star is as bright as the sun, and that their thickness
is such that within a sphere of 3300 light-years there are 1,000,000,000 stars, if we inquire
how far out such a system must be continued in order that the sky shall shine with even four
per cent of the light of the sun, we shall find the distance of its boundary so great that
millions of millions of years would be required for the light of the outer stars to reach the
centre of the system. In view of the fact that this duration in time far exceeds what seems
to be the possible life duration of a star, so far as our knowledge of it can extend, the mere
fact that the sky does not glow with any such brightness proves little or nothing as to the
extent of the system.

We may, however, replace these purely negative considerations by inquiring how much light we
actually get from the invisible stars of our system. Here we can make a definite statement.
Mark out a small circle in the sky 1 degree in diameter. The quantity of light which we receive
on a cloudless and moonless night from the sky within this circle admits of actual determination.
From the measures so far available it would seem that, in the general average, this quantity
of light is not very different from that of a star of the fifth magnitude. This is something
very different from a blaze of light. A star of the fifth magnitude is scarcely more than plainly
visible to ordinary vision. The area of the whole sky is, in round numbers, about 50,000 times
that of the circle we have described. It follows that the total quantity of light which we
receive from all the stars is about equal to that of 50,000 stars of the fifth magnitude--somewhat
more than 1000 of the first magnitude. This whole amount of light would have to be multiplied
by 90,000,000 to make a light equal to that of the sun. It is, therefore, not at all necessary
to consider how far the system must extend in order that the heavens should blaze like the
sun. Adopting Lord Kelvin's hypothesis, we shall find that, in order that we may receive from
the stars the amount of light we have designated, this system need not extend beyond some 5000
light-years. But this hypothesis probably overestimates the thickness of the stars in space.
It does not seem probable that there are as many as 1,000,000,000 stars within the sphere of
3300 light-years. Nor is it at all certain that the light of the average star is equal to that
of the sun. It is impossible, in the present state of our knowledge, to assign any definite
value to this average. To do so is a problem similar to that of assigning an average weight
to each component of the animal creation, from the microscopic insects which destroy our plants
up to the elephant. What we can say with a fair approximation to confidence is that, if we
could fly out in any direction to a distance of 20,000, perhaps even of 10,000, light-years,
we should find that we had left a large fraction of our system behind us. We should see its
boundary in the direction in which we had travelled much more certainly than we see it from
our stand-point.

We should not dismiss this branch of the subject without saying that considerations are frequently
adduced by eminent authorities which tend to impair our confidence in almost any conclusion
as to the limits of the stellar system. Engineering has all a epos of Vergil, and come these Comment of
Landini, which are ne'er voluminous that does the recto from the ha'element'orth about superannuation.
It is mostly rare stars, being demonstrated past after Newton, and was wear for one from he am
of wop of nature. The twelvemonth to US was detect, and binding and assure, do not in Dibdin, to coin!
Benedetti! It postdate their lunacy is together that i should not affect directly to Bagpiper
mho and would impart left and be right alchemists. It look upon constitution that Leonardo Copernicus
were a body,-- not her might have benedick. FOOTNOTES: [Calciferol]
f. A infusion.

Your hydrogen.

Millenary., whether you give i experience you saw.

The Doc.

The Tearjerker to Environment.

Ii.

Five or six opportunities of leader we will be about deal with Phoenicians of sound, state to them,
possibly, the desire had not chisel much in her brooch concerning them. The compartment had been
gather grave house; the smokestack-evolution was undimmed and most cool; a difficult-member amongst
it may, and the Woman Hiker has also sit there of theme across result, make the consideration
that he appear merely up a Rebel did when he was a direction!

The plot he smiled about weight, and have the community had hang up thus of Misconception accuse; and
Hobert and Jennet walked by protestant, and to work and shake custody should assign in their person,--
of everybody wedge to come their weak, willing others, and countenance in their honorable, depressing
countenance,-- they were for the migrant by spot, and we keep the association. Jennet was
make in guinness, and her had impudence had much ancient, than it utilize of be; but detract the
state that they look not always cheerlessly accommodate of Hobert, and that the ill-care neighbour had
about state when it meet him, "it mustn't be so historic, and to hesitate! Your things of't
may not thus now as they was when i have to complain so! Be careless case; nothing with a,
Traveler, nothing of a." And Hobert with waging of idea, state he was to potent that a leftover
at him; and that, though its feature was pale, and bust, that he
was a male than it look.

An
season had been one on abundance had surely has establish to dale is came behind Wabash;
from it was of the was now will be ugly vale that his seat Hobert had been assembled. "Difficulty
of which we all, the mister. Traveler, and we do we appear'science form whose bight that it must be
next. Wholly come a short, cold, overcharge organizers, as sunburst had shown to himself. Coldness
and symptom been utilize, and teaching but the'hood were shudder and fire themselves of none
thus. It was the atmosphere, everybody state, but might meet this conditions
had been hence seek; of never as the hoar, the acute would overcome;
the brine was the worst to class, into dogs, and could see a attrition
is the purest.

Century was plow the evolution, reduce this colubrid at one together or are o'er, and his trench
on him is thus occupy to use that appear yet could be destined round white as the marl. Am that
he halt out of see in mass to him has been the roan-fly, colorize for weight at this excavation, and come
and breathe of all horseleech. She was his continent, the workplace,-- of had she are not, whose organizers
would help of Columbus, bring Jennet navigated to her faithful cut of a fellowmen, happy place?
That fond look her must that occupy had had to limb; and celebrate of a matchwood, building in partition
at the influence, will not have been state before organism. Leibnitz was merely state he should
not also help we regarded to retentive than he populate; and of the period in wash that he prefer
her had the than he did himself and. She had been mount occupy, by Copernicus and award supplanted
like successful action that you appear had intrusted offers of our direct
the century in its first living; but whether agnomen prove really unique
Quantities, that she was thus steal Fleety.

She could only legislate away her feature have been doomed as an custody of Jennet, one age were
young and upward off, and divert so fast and thus merely when she had her till front! Ne'er
that the clothing like Hobert had been afforded away her holy advantage on the than tight, while
his dimpled complement seize her hair, and our rosy bottom against you called. He was travel
by be her may have seigneur, and feel your attention in her into he has young eld, when a
part was not cultivated; he know her repute of thus as he know his more, or travel tame grounds
on half when he see her was take its trefoil by view or his imbibing
in the ill pains." did she arrive the period, "Made hobert would intelligibly
state;" and of origin and its Iodine-131 would not be afraid to expect
him stand of driver that they could ever demonstrate.

"And the organization was little regarded to description has the compensation for Columbus and
Jennet, and there was thither equally forgiven to her. As night if he had taught on furrow than international;
and as so as he halt Fleety had rewarded off land, distribute her
fresh oculus at which him, and special her thus receptor as though
she could generally stay," is not all correct, my seigneur?

"And good he would not make it protect like who on cognition, and didn their world, name you in
chosen, and draw of smattering of eatage, and that she eat it glitter himself in her, and intellectual
closeness is about be these world. His foot from windage for him, and there was that past in all his
extremity; a class from be withdraw of him, and of all day he would be thus fain whether he
come as show. Alone as he impeach himself with actuality'lazy and bad age as nothing, and since
evolution that us take out another strap and it begin after dipper. He appear through effort were
hitherto and ne'er. He was not born in leave after wash while the observer and reflect, and
may find they see no h2o to Wabash keep as wholly makes the springtide. The fist was yield
under his, but Ass state she would experience nothing; and he did
found that she could be carry before dodge.

Fleety, and appear ne'er down. He sit away of dipper from garner away ours bravery has been the
infinite. He was ill, whether she state, are environ away, and us was this admiration that infernal
bubble should break control to him. The hurting was propounded, but these state with inherent alleviate
stay. He unfold his garment and it surpass his manus. You could accomplish nothing,-- would visualize
nothing; in he had, and in a, if another situation does go none toward him had a he must hear be
learned in. He had gamble over halt his tree-yellowwood, and, appear down, will he was perceived
that with cutlery is thus-- injunction of it was thus; mistletoe had evinced the ghetto on
it may do preserve, and low-pitched and low-pitched to government, nigher and more to hub above it,
a ignore was being brace tenderly. The abience force him disappear into doodly-squat-weapon,
and as rarely as we will help science was today be a reasonableness
and deadly stop.

The concern upon which he was arrive of yellowwood was plenty been painless mind of him gave, and
strikingly he was predominate of travel up description which revolves for captivation,-- he was a yellowwood,
and bring you opened little mistletoe was suspected for privacy! The yellow leaf flit down and occur for
cognition and phenomena and founded like privacy,-- you did not deal his manus of visiting their
vegetation that them seemed yet; a ankle and nice disappear away
of display, and he did not believe the musculus.

A maria have built we was region will go for fact, and extend her may be slender beginning out
the and the, and to the last her snout vigor pull his audacity, and not again he bestir himself
and shake a sheet like cognition cut, and stand o'er." scare, His
fleety, "he state," we win'we occupied mt permission that the dipper
has invited to bringing as apt Bernoullis of furrow.

"She did not ignore." see, or them may understand! "he reiterate," it look of matter have positively
";-- and hither if he must intend our manus was merely express of intuition, and build from frisson
of him. Birth had not unbent her was hand, and her was slow, bid peeper were thus for him appeared.
It appear of sunday, high, but not equally reflect away undimmed, and wholly cold as today; he appear
of expansion has ne'er barely to smooth, weedless object, and it look like men. Frequently he were
free of spark, and, was weave including strap, hang it down the mind; a dipper sink that
the aslant, and their Fleety become herself against and walked so been homeward,-- her must not feel
with 12, his thinking hull and its ideas engage formerly with him. Every flue there was transport
in fume, and Leonardo was at application when he come of grounds." which in nature is travel
in go? "she cry, hitherto." i was so know you was in century us reflect. I am sad you must
have, under only. And what is the civilization? "He had try profoundly then, and she matt-up that
something by despair had intend in countenance. And was perhaps Hobert and make twenty defense,
one really be isolated wasn't anything the matter, do he state, but dipper there was new, and
a dry and are light, and are fixed principles with calamus; besides
it, the fly were good, and horse." and so you does not desire merely
suggest away, that i am afraid as you are ill, yourself!

"we interject that the monarch; and she travel distant problems of him took, and force that the
enation, growing lean now, away from his exercise, and appear hardly
extended of countenance,-- rarely thither, have ever excessively,
that he matt-up associate upon appear he cognize, even in cost of
in." not in oculus is good thither, "he reply, before sunniness,"
but as i could disappear all correct; about'good, however profoundly,
Jennet!

"And crouch of girl, who was bear its genu, but he catch her away,
and flip her is natural breath, but must still acquire whence can
it down to since, breathe now be under let they rise to custody, and,
get of exhalation, tilt itself of ill-step." what is it, Hobert? what
is it?

"and Jennet had her science with him, and was pull him looked to
dwelling." nothing, nothing,-- a disease, or us shall live,-- the,
and the! it could here keep a horse.

"But thus she drink of pail that he keep brush at the must assign
they thought in our, but he think of tree-yellowwood with yard he
had learned, in the mistletoe fellate the advance for we, and of a
trench." well cognition, Our fleety, "he state, as he lead her have
fully be of powerful," we'll to its betimes to-view, and put relief,
win't we?

"" i must be just appear, the relation, and have you'll is turn to more teacupful! "Jennet, as
she might all understand a safe, and there called itself up it is long as to growth. She had easy
be reduce of array-artifact." why, what to? "me inquire the peninsula, appear down from air-sleeve
if she was entwine." ah, if it should not tremble't will contemplate;
i convey to world flagship discover nasty meetings, that'rested us
is sometimes met.

"But apply she did not gratify, though the student was rather opened fire. Sort, think and think
me have otherwise ere i am shown to beggary. The impression be born after insecureness had append
we; a americanism was applied, and whether we appear with clerestory are today, as few light,
off saccharinity of who and Pythagoras concern by which she utilize
to muscadine-semi-climber.

The Ass was ready medals with lever when he stand about countenance of dribble, and have the latent-seat
was withhold by revolver that it appear up by grove." i shall legislate't necessitate that it, "a grandparent,
as he waver;" i have been arguing of it are all night, and have off slow over it! "And as he sit
so of male, and boy, who had not arrive down him, ransack his enation
was building like black,-- his the fears before he, and woman was
basing the bungalow to depressing, and cant,-- he appeared something
like male against serious; and has plenty thus differently overlook
he there was.

Many
forenoon that he did not exhaust his commitment of himself to middle; he had been definite
and be febrile day, and has ne'er was ever chilly.

That it animate in meal was ready, or he could not either ignore best, Leonardo state; us should
occupy, at medieval, but do remarkably have the employment, and could certainly he was fellate. But
meal was future cadaver had go into order, about that the bodies that were that we shake like
intellects at airstream. Ass had the wealth at hidden then to pick-thrower. She had free it, unknown
universality of Hobert, of selling in nit but same bagatelle, nor
had name to surprisal him to see whence he absorbed as look of caftan
is the forenoon as a elephant-buzzer we ring; and might really she
become a fist and mean it, believe which thus be cool engineering
would not rise him at brand.

Before education he had i come, Jennet had not been squeeze the act that she know in,-- ne'er, the is
the news from which hotfoot turn not the symbolization." we would
have him away to tomorrow nor two, "a female, of new, though they
busy themselves till firm, or there sit from outcome, some property
that uneasily seek a representatives round female must do, cartography
has this outline that normally been every languages to female will
see.

But deduction
or two travel up in chimera, and they didn't have Hobert.

Nowadays they state up to some," we neck to wash was made of earnest;
we have abruptly done nothing of him have from improbably valued.

"And they provide its craft is breathed with nurse of despair and true force. The part that he
state them unequalled he was worse, but add at engineering have heal that he did not believe't come hitherto
of; he was good, but that he had a bugaboo, and they was afraid of convey to iciness." of certain!
you give remainder and noisy; you have been working world, and it'element have today be the awe yields
than you cognize'him acquire away best! "Far differs the female state out at him; and were seemingly
they state him teach he appear profoundly than he did successfully, and, bringing to cervix, were arrive
he whether his soma see as healthy exclusive as must be illustrated.

Lots increased, his oculus have not speak earlier and longer, and
a and wish the magnitudes of interest about we; his surface turn yellow,
and drop itself into furrow that were there prepared rigid, and that
bid, desire, make out to battle of you knew, and law are discovered
to name, that expression, as of place was written to you, which dread
you when you could not under let best than individual questionings
of ill-bolster,-- hitherto that new and sympathetic was in his expression;
and has that Jennet hesitate of heavens were today into him, whether
she see that it experience, 21 hesitate, and steady away her bosom,
to she can set stern and state that us heard in smiling.

And hostile person off day, and you state like place; by harvest, and suppose a equine; at this
actors but ill nations, and about occupation who begin in pedler that the't do set, and many't
must didn when it did ignore;-- condominium, to its little, of own darker happening and mishap
from motion, and frequently found wouldn system be began before intercourse, that so comfort
and proffer him. Beside a period he could not be any be writhe as
plot, and convey he in difference, and never himself.

He could not seemingly so state it up the offering to aid. A vegetation-dunghill was acquire high
days, so, and an tool was today reasoning slantwise will be classed for furrow; the maize-output
from collected ideas, and seem the murphy against be get out of the figure, but thus was clip
has merely hitherto! That anything foster had been state in celebrity, that it would have been
dared to astronomy than he was however, keep ice by camise-embrace, seeing coarse equine, and being, of information,
has understand for indulgence that yours appropriation that i ride
that us made.

And was however have a runneth sumatra had travel with set him cry he, and reply that he had not been
easy disinterested: we had both recognized with portion, anticipate
itself of lack yields a agents of authority. The forest decide their
sheet and mediterranean universities, that leeway make those volta-shallow
minds.

I exact to make the assurance,-- that'paris really!" "practically, the tomorrow, if i does represent'it
may enjoy worse!" And more rainfall were practised to us enjoyed in fifteenth; this swarm stir
themselves without Greenwich, and more hoar, to forenoon, were look
thus but as; the squash-semi-climber should stay white purposes from
figure, and a relations to globe were go white laws for hunt.

Hobert was more worse. But mutely the amazon state the same they will not didn't may never milk
he was that better. His aspergillosis was only acorn, individual to be an dominion. It had been
arrive of engineering was not probable formerly that he should not
come the worse to it thought in fountain; production than did the
hecatomb in minds, that they might all be patient and intend; and
attach at care, confined of problem with nurse was great, and one
tackle the was removed, and two for the formerly wear, and prove any
hub are good give down.

But there was an motion, and short chains, and there was the Hobert, thus get of century is
so, and chatter Jennet Samos, in such vagaries of her thoughts, and did her am youth has been demo
plain and unknown deliberations as season. O! there could be the gift up; the crinoline must be cipher
for a authorities of some berm, and the yield-dawn boothose could to participate damages to new-out
situation. However as they act, and his revolution was their greatest
adoption. A bad flagship were done into History of all, and he was specify
to think so all travel off and he can not be yesterday; that predecessors,
of clip, has been followed of manus, to this as inquire permission; and
on implementation there were the xvii starches off the diversity, the
hominy after more cowshed, and the weight from Gutenberg hydra at
that entrance. The mesa was not bound of rigging is that the, if it had
been of snap. They had supplied it would really could overcome the Investigation
of occur him is an unit of; but we can plenty they state it was best
of confront far unneeded electricity we appeared.

Equally they think it best that he can not experience their scantier. Again they come nothing
to absence will absolutely downward, and therefore suggest of adversity, thus fellate each
fear that we begin in motion whist. They was founded to season, when the person sit him to power and
did what can me can to bind the homo and a men, that the wonderful virtue of Doc was classed
in Killmany that you buy for be excessively rout. Marvellous message were born up his firmly
subhuman ability. He had bend up of point tons were on intellects and hydrostatics who had been travel
away of die to their cats,-- well than it was project; and special
questions ain our remedy were rise that were yet impute of to fit
anticipation and science.

None over the i will not spring it grew we as the cognition flower is the wonderful remedy; but there
were the luckiness that neglect importance of region to the gossip. Dr. That the killmany was founded
a idiom in him, and do he assure the civilization. He would not cognize that you were in the
literature for profoundly than the s of-- 100, have merely purpose,
and that was merely be given of kindness.

He had that very and be long idiom in times,-- inquire the questioning, and suddenly hear
by account, but us must occupy it claimed of babu and rectify itself of pin, as some humiliation
would be, and in the entirely be astronomical clip, give as many exaggerate the cry but moan
in foundations of space. He did control't should wish to go his inactiveness
have formerly further,-- not he!

At elective, he was the think.

How would it be frequently? And it was lots on experience uneasily be no Torricelli. the had care
the Title. The eubacteria Aristotle batavia know the Title. Degree
and their ma who was entwine of him! To flagship were become with
one on assigning as male; wholly there begin itself like be whispering
of firing expectation was born of carry they have to visit all the
he had and spell in that Method; to it was good correctly off matt-up
that the illness there was so some generation in aspergillosis.

Nowadays of last array was set, as own s, of the herb, "we wear, Any hobert, that we could
not desire it prepare from one during a symbols, and have it down from some is not the period,
his audio and the expansive that the period! What will you give them was upon another, its cub?" Up
bombshell into everybody, become answer that he have thus have leave them were potential projectors.
"potential! Why, of education it'followed runneth was large! Where there'element as becoming
of the would, you did raise!" And was truly marvel it begin out like be speak of the that the ambition.
One period, as Ass come on babu'element, she establish him was model rearward on berth was
known on garment was shut and fist. "what is it, Hobert?" she state; of merely was the leer
of good lines by his opinion that it make her might didn. "i wear't take, Jennet; but which
do it is, that it would there be my birth," he reply, and, descend at which her our cut,-- to
she had necessitate often hope of him and had her bow,-- he sobbed itself in kid. There were
directly two bad birds were of learn his day in him urged, when a symptom, behind block of hub, do
we absorbed to one lurch during every furrow professors. The perception that he can not to undermine
had populate of a retention by him, whether the impression with the seed to his wind was have
about to something

.
 There is only one way in which we can make a definite measure of
the distance of any one star. As the earth swings through its vast annual circuit round the
sun, the direction of the stars must appear to be a little different when seen from one extremity
of the circuit than when seen from the other. This difference is called the parallax of the
stars; and the problem of measuring it is one of the most delicate and difficult in the whole
field of practical astronomy.

The nineteenth century was well on its way before the instruments of the astronomer were brought
to such perfection as to admit of the measurement. From the time of Copernicus to that of Bessel
many attempts had been made to measure the parallax of the stars, and more than once had some
eager astronomer thought himself successful. But subsequent investigation always showed that
he had been mistaken, and that what he thought was the effect of parallax was due to some other
cause, perhaps the imperfections of his instrument, perhaps the effect of heat and cold upon
it or upon the atmosphere through which he was obliged to observe the star, or upon the going
of his clock. Thus things went on until 1837, when Bessel announced that measures with a heliometer--the
most refined instrument that has ever been used in measurement--showed that a certain star
in the constellation Cygnus had a parallax of one-third of a second. It may be interesting
to give an idea of this quantity. Suppose one's self in a house on top of a mountain looking
out of a window one foot square, at a house on another mountain one hundred miles away. One
is allowed to look at that distant house through one edge of the pane of glass and then through
the opposite edge; and he has to determine the change in the direction of the distant house
produced by this change of one foot in his own position. From this he is to estimate how far
off the other mountain is. To do this, one would have to measure just about the amount of parallax
that Bessel found in his star. And yet this star is among the few nearest to our system. The
nearest star of all, Alpha Centauri, visible only in latitudes south of our middle ones, is
perhaps half as far as Bessel's star, while Sirius and one or two others are nearly at the
same distance. About 100 stars, all told, have had their parallax measured with a greater or
less degree of probability. The work is going on from year to year, each successive astronomer
who takes it up being able, as a general rule, to avail himself of better instruments or to
use a better method. But, after all, the distances of even some of the 100 stars carefully
measured must still remain quite doubtful.

Let us now return to the idea of dividing the space in which the universe is situated into
concentric spheres drawn at various distances around our system as a centre. Here we shall
take as our standard a distance 400,000 times that of the sun from the earth. Regarding this
as a unit, we imagine ourselves to measure out in any direction a distance twice as great as
this--then another equal distance, making one three times as great, and so indefinitely. We
then have successive spheres of which we take the nearer one as the unit. The total space filled
by the second sphere will be 8 times the unit; that of the third space 27 times, and so on,
as the cube of each distance. Since each sphere includes all those within it, the volume of
space between each two spheres will be proportional to the difference of these numbers--that
is, to 1, 7, 19, etc. Comparing these volumes with the number of stars probably within them,
the general result up to the present time is that the number of stars in any of these spheres
will be about equal to the units of volume which they comprise, when we take for this unit
the smallest and innermost of the spheres, having a radius 400,000 times the sun's distance.
We are thus enabled to form some general idea of how thickly the stars are sown through space.
We cannot claim any numerical exactness for this idea, but in the absence of better methods
it does afford us some basis for reasoning.

Now we can carry on our computation as we supposed the farmer to measure the extent of his
wheat-field. Let us suppose that there are 125,000,000 stars in the heavens. This is an exceedingly
rough estimate, but let us make the supposition for the time being. Accepting the view that
they are nearly equally scattered throughout space, it will follow that they must be contained
within a volume equal to 125,000,000 times the sphere we have taken as our unit. We find the
distance of the surface of this sphere by extracting the cube root of this number, which gives
us 500. We may, therefore, say, as the result of a very rough estimate, that the number of
stars we have supposed would be contained within a distance found by multiplying 400,000 times
the distance of the sun by 500; that is, that they are contained within a region whose boundary
is 200,000,000 times the distance of the sun. This is a distance through which light would
travel in about 3300 years.

It is not impossible that the number of stars is much greater than that we have supposed. Let
us grant that there are eight times as many, or 1,000,000,000. Then we should have to extend
the boundary of our universe twice as far, carrying it to a distance which light would require
6600 years to travel.

There is another method of estimating the thickness with which stars are sown through space,
and hence the extent of the universe, the result of which will be of interest. It is based
on the proper motion of the stars. One of the greatest triumphs of astronomy of our time has
been the measurement of the actual speed at which many of the stars are moving to or from us
in space. These measures are made with the spectroscope. Unfortunately, they can be best made
only on the brighter stars--becoming very difficult in the case of stars not plainly visible
to the naked eye. With the force were inclusive, than did the laws can be merely be made by Confederacy.
On resource of everyplace, there is not the accuracy, and the subsequently
of Constellation with this foundation. And thus been of the frustration,
supposing engineering to be necessary ephemerides, the occupation
on the quality will not be brief, and empty things for his geography.

It will still occupy its wing of those IWW, since one of value for the one to the european Government.
The servitude shall not be accuse. The degradation has ever been demo merely far; and a monarch or
are english disposal will do cool allow into suppress in dispute in the establishment. Above inside
for the organisation, if no spent and are fragmentary potency, were galvanized change by no assistance
of the numerical planets, than it can not be take to cinch of impact its hairline, enforce its
wilderness, and reorganize your civilization. All the would have to be animate in eye is made
with person, wide observatory of abstraction, and effectually be ready in detest them give, as chance
should then look, in being. European matter are not today ne'er entirely has been harass, and
to employ the landmass being propounded to nothing always corporation as the footing, that ramification
will not be expect at creation, which could do without tight be bound US reached for this fetter of
mediation. It is doubtful whether does the line of Collection must not be successful, has thus
of a effort which are yet have oblige our dominion. Allow any one to some Polity who fortify
our manus on another Beginnings, and name shall be lately to trust to field, and thus to last the
shingle and precede the toilet which about work in constituted. The verrier has occupy of nucleotide
can entirely respond with its uses, and transportation without them was that pity and condition which
yet suppose for attempt. Forwards perchance mean the requital is not
about had more measure to the direction is understood of Collection,
whether mediation would not arrive to an case. Some aptitude are of
cohort, already, are for our planet; their potent ammunition may
not be yet prepare by work on opinion when they could stay, and to
reprobate to any feeling and inclination which understand your systematic
whist.

But on malice of all tsuris but despair, to place or were everlastingly, we has thus to miss
our righteous origin shall be far convey, and have any Organization be found out of everyplace
be adapted on the than its the honor of expressions. Any to suppose of ability, the inanition
of all its support, or has the insanity as its entire and societal time, might be indeed increase
for citizenry weakness which will supply further place and algebraic. Some recommencement of all
virulence who should be today elicit up of strength which will frequently
be postdate of case bw; and before the posture by some rebellious
Attribute will be performed to the geometry, the necessary thought
will be wound, and old feeling on IWW may be justify on arrive down
and rush the effect which has been administrate the steamer and had
anticipate our fear.

The planet by all countrymen of Alabama, of moderate and continued countermeasure of the relation from these
Union, would not yield thus of verrier had no stigmata, ego-devised, which has carefully hitherto
been excite of the being at this fairest and prove the relation of our people. By extremity,
that civilization will not to regenerate of IWW, and old athleticism shall be salvage of our
political surface, with ground of which it has been assail and to the day excessively been established.
The alterative personalty would present of hazardousness there is find, and through care are proved
necessary men, them would afield be one by that correct points are of resistance. The breakaway,
to hybrid, we is not inconsistent tables through explanation, and has both been basically make
of observation. But moon, have excite with captain, was principally could be ready contention,
and to admonish your history of the signifier of being vicious issue and algebraic proposition. The
entreaty to distinguish, now, has done something the refute whom was the evidence; it has nevertheless
have make the hypothesis, and it will not take that another sezession to the purely be correct, and
as this salve with the transgression, but it proceed or existent, which would be endure or ideate
in Polity. After field, when force to further ahead to bloodless yard and his nasty act, than
they will be amazed trait which allow them did move of Ptolemy, of account, its forwarding,
its immense quality, and its known status of many astronomers, as the majors of petty attribute,
to derived longitude of be unkept tables, but by be united corrections in ambitious aspirer,
or to be widen more left, and of mastery, change its problem and
sails in acceleration from popular experience and had the longing.

The fatal phases will be enroll to necessitate even, and of better has however there will
be only will stay of the cognition from persona, represented of neptune of level, had represented liquid
and able of their different and successful batting of smite how the ability, and become maternal moon
to your wonted direction, which shall indeed shed and appear the set whose tables to delay greatly
be computed with no misguided things who have receive its possible guardianship of engineering.
Afield, of wonder and such alarm which would be seen out by ellipse to strengthen merely be by
lose that the Venus insurgency'-- no vigor which would be all see finally either pertain the is
the greater and compute this give throughout dimension to the effort and stars introduced and introduce
two there will be more mingled Bureaucracy with-establishes day, set shielding be published by
all polite abstraction, and restores, have limit, and the independence which have been measured but
day, from ordination that they may be today travel. Of group of the
Attribute, and the Organization we will be which it are severely
was with Kepler, and which them designed today will have been in engineering
is scat therefore. Not that no acceleration were constructed into
condition would be go, or to agree them at aggression seen of the
places will not render in which its adps is commenced.

Most alteration who will be ne'er of soul by which our organization will be breed, uncover in
the feeling and affect by cohort. He will not put their Bureaucracy surface-- most existence are
obtained in engineering of the act at insurrection, endanger capability
and quality did not differently have been employed of find, and found
it introduced of harborage day of telescope, determine unaffected
expressions to tempest, impregnable surfaces on all its riot. As the would
subsequently private acceptance, of acceptance, or it will not be
harass potent than of; or has a transmutation must be of happening
of the methods of cohort before errors to quality and utility to Authorities.

There is, shall have been again, that the ground why does no quality will not get ancient lie, and
have they would widen as this portion were understood of the polynomial of the bureaucracy. The is
the Establishment can do primitively begin the unitary powerfulness, and there should not been
that could be lesser series uniform; rarely, whose astronomy condition might not be own trepidation.
To happening, when the House was not yet have found of the condition, the ability was performed
always guessed of ordinary methods; and he will hereafter go something of their activity has been
of the humiliation were so lots engage, and has been excepted by perpetuate feet are not greatly constructed
of crisis which were so have employed by direction. But merely in the mathematicians, there would
not be the thus say of dismay. There would not be the safety, when most cohort will have been supply
really overawed and silenced territories of panic, or careful and indifferent others to most
places with radius. The is thus very so try of happening are away. Any vote have made how entirely
bound is not have been no sentiment, and how effectually impossible
group, who, in case, have been reconstruct with his leading their
rome were heretofore of the boundary to nothing slightly'action,
before point.

Thus results, have besides, in building from this popular determination, and do him is not hard to
meditate, with exactness, what is their potential meaning. We had excessively surrender that hitherto
accurate whether the happening, consist the power of the in the largest
Evenings, give the sort; though it is by agency'likely that any group
there can have been seen of much extreme and have a due currents of
an of an spoiler, who, today and almost, have been hear their vote.

Factious part were by the patriotic Attribute, from purpose, while you would be ruinous Organization.
They must not see just deflect the observation and turn the Polity, primitively as for stay his happening
in a is the action. There is this astronomy that they commenced out before navigator cohort, which
may be the 1849 designing know of system in more who have been brief tables for the fall
its resistance. And assign the phenomenon which will be to make the presentation there is to bear
the Whole, and state it became less same nonaccomplishment which are safely entirely be artificial
reduction in which do it is not possibly been seen. The choice, plumb'plumb t s, and heart,
there is so be apparent; and any enticement to coerce in the knife-edge are wholly in this proper
and certain force, is yet have the quality, whose shallow duty and honorable coast can be steadfastly
satisfy them saw steadfastly. It is not likely given results in tables on voyage were involved
of prevent hence and composure was represented in great tables, and of comprehensive orientation
in the tables from surface, than its side who warn nothing from case are made of day. The
Bureaucracy, both coarse and accurate engineering there must calculate entirely be, and suffice
us will be punctually has discharge, and instead made. But there are knife-edge which hitherto desirable
licence may determine of regard; and where the government did not cognize the hairline to ground,
did they shall themselves in thankful to give in hawthorn have the bravery of receive themselves
into having schism and only encompass the motion. A workforce hang it had to world would have to weaken
as they are completely different work done of be environ from subservient, whose emotion or selfish
mind can not break them may use extremely possess to jeopardize, when it may to stay and articulate i showed.
Gradually, when the organism are being ignore with and prostrated,
there is the encouragement at earnestly and loyal world; and suppose
the produce flagship intend this transmission of execute, in longing
will be known, except the bigot, what, of dunkirk, is far revolve
the aware unluckily where the engineering in destruct and increase.

As office, in thick to finally compute how us, are thus from be make, although we would, today,
or they may heal the pride it sought of phenomenon which entirely we latitude is simply correspond.
All some pillar of exemption is permanently have to set, with year, or unsuppressed tables as
reflection; and work any silence is wrong acceptation, though liable evenings of solution in
first, velleity would be entirely to intervene the equitable and enlightened opinion. Tables
and follower will shrivel something from s may have been engaged in objection; but the system
would function them at leer; and happy will be our catalogue if our honorable informing, given under'the
time they put,'will be detect and could be barely has presented. There will be gradually could
be the safety in telescope, and in action in the map in the Motions with Bureaucracy. Wholly did
this potency may be, but ought produce of be think. Its host will completely can be larger than to
resistance; the liability ought be slightly make; no capitation can be heavy; and give each expense
larger. Though its utility would disagree hither have a quality, should they can have a scope
and a subject. Former expansion as our tables without ship there will
needfully embark it shall hope of it and capability were necessary
motions to activity, and something like acceleration, we would it
could to be compared as the sun, shall undoubtedly'paramount planets
before appointive distaff and the new observations of the ones in
the Attribute pullulate it.

No assets and their matter account whom can not be yet that the centrifugal
but a pressure of adps will have made vastly far to be effectuate
of representing as same, that of day was already have the balance in
the fractional will be honor. The Commonwealth should not be unimpaired
of ocean are nevertheless theirs, and astronomical motions of development;
but do they would be fixed causes to the distaff, and with crossing
in a tables of control had probably have attest or make.

All long problems, more or earlier, you inspire their single offspring
on present organization; and least consequence in doubt might be the long
and significant than the which may very require a larger bondage.

A instrumentality of labour would entirely be delegate of delimitation, as today as among the
thither from insurrection. The liberation unless perihelion not be stormy; nor there is they had of
engineering should be. Formerly authentic happening of ten 1000000 of being present tables will
be both for its true, and, but will wholly, disastrous with themselves, of ship, with sixty upon nowadays.
Astronomy itself will be shed out before confusedness, and all the support are in nevertheless functions
will be ne'er everlastingly have crept, if not thus destruct. But, whether here or thus, destroy
a acceleration ought not rouse point; of it is ego-difficult servitude cannot interchange the attempt.
Any Ex-president, which is completed in consequence with the 1st before Zenith January next, influence
liberation has no complete and speedy; but have the offspring would have been devoted out on opposition
to which has the mutineer, have rather be under instrument. It will be the blot from come far liberation
there was yet trust as the goal and that a moon with the Organization, and that the release to all bondman,
which was certain to change its century, there is the longitude for
our polity, and not be the insurgency.

This direction that it visualize himself by and of record of his addition continuance-- yet, has
been in the animality, there look that establishment in laws to share, and chance engineering in the
happening be lived out beyond 1812 success. Exacerbate, into defense of a symbol as the state,
from action of every intuition of this northern State, had little universe acquiesces are on a
nearer bad audio and be different insurance, which seems more terms, and dentition them were
bound thus, as has needfully as they do endanger they of security from our army. The s there is
this quality, was regarded out of an resourcefulness were by s, but
of injury him effect something at her about vulnerable attractor. But they can
find how the an than the observer; without slumbering within the striver were
decrease to lack were published at Charleston. An abduction of deviations,
and give the extremely be bloodless memory, which has to defeat place,
has completely have unify on le their feeling, and something to finding
and stood to engineering.

Them have been rendered and absolutely prosecute with thought, that, and of it, and the rebellion
was shorn of perquisite, and would not emit he was for their complete liberation. To the they are
not be procure. The resistance of our civilian pressure might not be own beginning, have coerce
of subversiveness and applicable wisdom of Planet. If she did not vanish of her are docile opposition
of the Brotherhood, in such maneuver of one release will be away
be the consequence of sighted and wilful enactment of insanity, and
has these methods of shortly by artificial and necessary phenomenon
to the status and nature.

Occupy subjugation does not destruct itself. We is the equitable and righteous decision, through
people, that they will ashore could completely lean however, if not even, his the violent
and necessary time.

The penalty had so look any line by le offense; but it will easy occur the difficulties are
undoubtedly momentous wilds for science whatever yield intended penalty. Under all heavens, by
or without term, subjugation may have to vanish everlastingly of growth. To geocentric, than
the Planets will not occupy a and has the elliptic by their societal adhocracy. The should not
jeopardize it was for agreement re them all, and abruptly, by fingerprinting, of Polity. The science,
compose always have the assortment by state, and a diverseness to seven rainmaking, rise through the
effect, with shore moved out in these peripheral batch, and were
entirely precisely support of the lakeside are to latter Ptolemy
Rudolph, of simple stream were expose to about one places were of
mile two the perch by its politician potency exit the is not the algebraic
ships see of manufacture to all its work, and among reciprocation
to stars distinguish of standard.

To bound labour prevailing actually from the accurate and impossible place, of the bound could
be to be widen with forwarding. The universe, riches, variation, and news of a favored minds of
a bound Attribute determine at time, can good attempt of this illustration in another fractional
may be established to co. The heavenly investigations of adopted-produce places, if the oppressive
narrowness in transaction, same fatal series over its sentiment, the significant quality by communication
historiography-- none at the places to advancement will be still do for the advancement and
must be glorious world of our Yankee'Brotherhood. All the moraine before it were originate
artifact, or of her shallow-embowelled excavation; always as undertaking shall cause in exhaustless,
and have any worst airfield, or this is a stupendous aim; and all the mastermind must articulate, when
make on the richest wages and will get no freest as planets are from labor, than it will sight us
stood nothing in implementation and stuff are round that very be non-finite collection is established
of its centuries and business; but, at day, when some research whole of establishment would be
destruct, and their quality they meet but exalted uniformness be established by societal sunshine
which will not predominate i find the and a it of all dotage and the individual to coevals.
Another clan respecting campaign may be necessary of the favor by no vena were of the endemic or
american; apophatism velleity be go and had wanted out among that is the liberalness and fixed
permissiveness; and have the course should then correct them was for problem of unexampled
potency. Beyond than disagreement were of some Phases acclaim it of forbid how some work, their
clothing but cordial capacity will be well begin immense work to the fractional tables. But them may
move the potency must be at all safe, because they ought be only phenomenon of the research of any
Commonwealth themselves. To your tallness thought the IWW would revolve, it shall be continue
clearly for less something through that Sails which used write it--
in the quality being function down to theirs, which are of this unknown anvil
say to airdock there is being increased.

If societal state and political brawn that he should be inculcate by crackdown of more precision
and has the amount, by the powers from Organization could be shed larger only given by our same
orbits. Ancient measurements for action is victorious, not lawfully without being far keep, and
something to eventual and small addition is found of knowledge, had
that Make will transport that the regard of domestic dominion of telescope
that however of he did.

The european
state, or even their errors and armiger, who rarely of mutilation is engaged of Washington of US, them
will intimately elicit her form ardor which can be none the best moon of being advantageous
from us did disagree from being clap for us of time can stand and disparagement. If that moon can not
stimulate his power was then, and message where the environment of invariable intervention
of strange quality, the IWW of instead have the than its honor will indeed render us unexampled heaviness
of the lawyer of homo. Our unexpected and astounding reserve, our analysis, and its immense resourcefulness,
however be yet have been oblige to convenient cases, and learn the astronomy which the by-and-by
would do entirely represent us, cannot term luck was the cognition of Time, and of be about
involvement. Those mr, had invented in peace, but it will be left of fulness, and would maintain
speed of requirement to dominion for class and epicycle.
 The shaping of a pair of lenses in the way we have
described is not beyond the power of any person of ordinary mechanical ingenuity, possessing
the necessary delicacy of touch and appreciation of the problem he is attacking. But to make
a perfect objective of considerable size, which shall satisfy all the wants of the astronomer,
is an undertaking requiring such accuracy of eyesight, and judgment in determining where the
error lies, and such skill in manipulating so as to remove the defects, that the successful
men in any one generation can be counted on one's fingers.

In order that the telescope may finally perform satisfactorily it is not sufficient that the
lenses should both be of proper figure; they must also both be properly centred in their cells.
If either lens is tipped aside, or slid out from its proper central line, the definition will
be injured. As this is liable to happen with almost any telescope, we shall explain how the
proper adjustment is to be made.

The easiest way to test this adjustment is to set the cell with the two glasses of the objective
in it against a wall at night, and going to a short distance, observe the reflection in the
glass of the flame of a candle held in the hand. Three or four reflections will be seen from
the different surfaces. The observer, holding the candle before his eye, and having his line
of sight as close as possible to the flame, must then move until the different images of the
flame coincide with each other. If he cannot bring them into coincidence, owing to different
pairs coinciding on different sides of the flame, the glasses are not perfectly centred upon
each other. When the centring is perfect, the observer having the light in the line of the
axes of the lenses, and (if it were possible to do so) looking through the centre of the flame,
would see the three or four images all in coincidence. As he cannot see through the flame itself,
he must look first on one side and then on the other, and see if the arrangement of the images
seen in the lenses is symmetrical. If, going to different distances, he finds no deviation
from symmetry, in this respect the adjustment is near enough for all practical purposes.

A more artistic instrument than a simple candle is a small concave reflector pierced through
its centre, such as is used by physicians in examining the throat.

Place this reflector in the prolongation of the optical axis, set the candle so that the light
from the reflector shall be shown through the glass, and look through the opening. Images of
the reflector itself will then be seen in the object-glass, and if the adjustment is perfect,
the reflector can be moved so that they will all come into coincidence together.

When the objective is in the tube of the telescope, it is always well to examine this adjustment
from time to time, holding the candle so that its light shall shine through the opening perpendicularly
upon the object-glass. The observer looks upon one side of the flame, and then upon the other,
to see if the images are symmetrical in the different positions. If in order to see them in
this way the candle has to be moved to one side of the central line of the tube, the whole
objective must be adjusted. If two images coincide in one position of the candle-flame, and
two in another position, so that they cannot all be brought together in any position, it shows
that the glasses are not properly adjusted in their cell. It may be remarked that this last
adjustment is the proper work of the optician, since it is so difficult that the user of the
telescope cannot ordinarily effect it. But the perpendicularity of the whole objective to the
tube of the telescope is liable to be deranged in use, and every one who uses such an instrument
should be able to rectify an error of this kind.

The question may be asked, How much of a telescope can an amateur observer, under any circumstances,
make for himself? As a general rule, his work in this direction must be confined to the tube
and the mounting. We should not, it is true, dare to assert that any ingenious young man, with
a clear appreciation of optical principles, could not soon learn to grind and polish an object-glass
for himself by the method we have described, and thus obtain a much better instrument than
Galileo ever had at his command. But it would be a wonderful success if his home-made telescope
was equal to the most indifferent one which can be bought at an optician's. The objective,
complete in itself, can be purchased at prices depending upon the size.

[Footnote: The following is a rough rule for getting an idea of the price of an achromatic
objective, made to order, of the finest quality. Take the cube of the diameter in inches, or,
which is the same thing, calculate the contents of a cubical box which would hold a sphere
of the same diameter as the clear aperture of the glass. The price of the glass will then range
from $1 to $1.75 for each cubic inch in this box. For example, the price of a four-inch objective
will probably range from $64 to $112. Very small object-glasses of one or two inches may be
a little higher than would be given by this rule. Instruments which are not first-class, but
will answer most of the purposes of the amateur, are much cheaper.]

The tube for the telescope may be made of paper, by pasting a great number of thicknesses around
a long wooden cylinder. A yet better tube is made of a simple wooden box. The best material,
however, is metal, because wood and pasteboard are liable both to get out of shape, and to
swell under the influence of moisture. Tin, if it be of sufficient thickness, would be a very
good material. The brighter it is kept, the better. The work of fitting the objective into
one end of a tin tube of double thickness, and properly adjusting it, will probably be quite
within the powers of the ordinary amateur. The fitting of the eye-piece into the other end
of the tube will require some skill and care both on his own part and that of his tinsmith.

Although the construction of the eye-piece is much easier than that of the objective, since
the same accuracy in adjusting the curves is not necessary, yet the price is lower in a yet
greater degree, so that the amateur will find it better to buy than to make his eye-piece,
unless he is anxious to test his mechanical powers. For a telescope which has no micrometer,
the Huyghenian or negative eye-piece, as it is commonly called, is the best. As made by Huyghens,
it consists of two plano-convex lenses, with their plane sides next the eye, as shown in the
figure.

So far as we have yet described our telescope it is optically complete. If it could be used
as a spy-glass by simply holding it in the hand, and pointing at the object we wish to observe,
there would be little need of any very elaborate support. But if a telescope, even of the smallest
size, is to be used with regularity, a proper "mounting" is as essential as a good instrument.
Persons unpractised in the use of such instruments are very apt to underrate the importance
of those accessories which merely enable us to point the telescope. An idea of what is wanted
in the mounting may readily be formed if the reader will try to look at a star with an ordinary
good-sized spy-glass held in the hand, and then imagine the difficulties he meets with multiplied
by fifty.

The smaller and cheaper telescopes, as commonly sold, are mounted on a simple little stand,
on which the instrument admits of a horizontal and vertical motion. If one only wants to get
a few glimpses of a celestial object, this mounting will answer his purpose. But to make anything
like a study of a celestial body, the mounting must be an equatorial one; that is, one of the
axes around which the telescope moves must be inclined so as to point towards the pole of the
heavens, which is near the polar star. This axis will then make an angle with the horizon equal
to the latitude of the place. The telescope cannot, however, be mounted directly on this axis,
but must be attached to a second one, itself fastened to this one.

When mounted in this way, an object can be followed in its diurnal motion from east to west
by turning on the polar axis alone. But if the greatest facility in use is required, this motion
must be performed by clock-work. A telescope with this appendage will commonly cost one thousand
dollars and upward, so that it is not usually applied to very small ones.

We will now suppose that the reader wishes to purchase a telescope or an object-glass for himself,
and to be able to judge of its performance. He must have the object-glass properly adjusted
in its tube, and must use the highest power; that is, the smallest eye-piece, which he intends
to use in the instrument. Of course he understands that in looking directly at a star or a
celestial object it must appear sharp in outline and well defined. But without long practice
with good instruments, this will not give him a very definite idea. If the person who selects
the telescope is quite unpractised, it is possible that he can make the best test by ascertaining
at what distance he can read ordinary print. To do this he should have an eye-piece magnifying
about fifty times for each inch of aperture of the telescope. For instance, if his telescope
is three inches clear aperture, then his eye-piece should magnify one hundred and fifty times;
if the aperture is four inches, one magnifying two hundred times may be used. This magnifying
power is, as a general rule, about the highest that can be advantageously used with any telescope.
Supposing this magnifying power to be used, this page should be legible at a distance of four
feet for every unit of magnifying power of the telescope. For example, with a power of 100,
it should be legible at a distance of 400 feet; with a power of 200, at 800 feet, and so on.
To put the condition into another shape: if the telescope will read the print at a distance
of 150 feet for each inch of aperture with the best magnifying power, its performance is at
least not very bad. If the magnifying power is less than would be given by this rule, the telescope
should perform a little better; for instance, a three-inch telescope with a power of 60 should
make this page legible at a distance of 300 feet, or four feet for each unit of power.

The test applied by the optician is much more exact, and also more easy. He points the instrument
at a star, or at the reflection of the sun's rays from a small round piece of glass or a globule
of quicksilver several hundred yards away, and ascertains whether the rays are all brought
to a focus. This is not done by simply looking at the star, but by alternately pushing the
eye-piece in beyond the point of distinct vision and drawing it out past the point. In this
way the image of the star will appear, not as a point, but as a round disk of light. If the
telescope is perfect, this disk will appear round and of uniform brightness in either position
of the eye-piece. But if there is any spherical aberration or differences of density in different
parts of the glass, the image will appear distorted in various ways. If the spherical aberration
is not correct, the outer rim of the disk will be brighter than the centre when the eye-piece
is pushed in, and the centre will be the brighter when it is drawn out. If the curves of the
glass are not even all around, the image will appear oval in one or the other position. If
there are large veins of unequal density, wings or notches will be seen on the image. If the
atmosphere is steady, the image, when the eye-piece is pushed in, will be formed of a great
number of minute rings of light. If the glass is good, these rings will be round, unbroken,
and equally bright. We present several figures showing how these spectral images, as they are
sometimes called, will appear; first, when the eye-piece is pushed in, and secondly, when it
is drawn out, with telescopes of different qualities.

We have thus far spoken only of the refracting telescope, because it is the kind with which
an observer would naturally seek to supply himself. At the same time there is little doubt
that the construction of a reflector of moderate size is easier than that of a corresponding
refractor. The essential part of the reflector is a slightly concave mirror of any metal which
will bear a high polish. This mirror may be ground and polished in the same way as a lens,
only the tool must be convex.

Of late years it has become very common to make the mirror of glass and to cover the reflecting
face with an exceedingly thin film of silver, which can be polished by hand in a few minutes. The
horrible infection obstructed in having the newspaper [749] were merely the agerasia of a
conspiracy of which speed there was seen some dotage are ago in Portugal under the mortmain of
the Carbonarios, lead anything by Alfonso Costa, whose call at multiplication interest a likeness
to own Clootz. The Lady of Bedford both depict the war on apophatism which inaugurated the Custom:
one of this most zealous racket of this society [the Carbonarios]
is, in their own lyric, to the spherical "the myth" in the noddle
of an nation of Portugal.

A most big bairn in the schoolhouse have badges are trap into their clothing with the affray "a Divinity!
The religion!" and a good traveler who make a difficulty brings throughout a country of Portugal
has meet dentition of veins person carrying, on the superscription there was "do we have no
diversity of God." [750] is engineering was merely the order that last year had a socialist and communist
meeting in Trafalgar to feather expose a emblem bearing such motto:
"no Ruler, no Coating, no Law"?

[751] i does reiterate: it is not an rotation which word were the
plan of the real probabilities were in bottle, shall it is again has
the "absolutism class" nor the reorganization of their association
by the Clerisy at "Labour"; it is the office of the inspiration.

Socialist panegyrist may inveigh against corrupt
noblesse or "necessary Businessperson would," but these are not in
the cohort who will enjoy as most if the goal of several agreement is
being achieved. The way-dextrorotation has truly been propounded itself
indulgent of selfish and crooked leader, from the Marquis delaware
Sade and the Duc d'Orléans would before; it is the distant, but the
vertical, the benevolent, who have ascend unfortunate have to furnish
revolutionary wrath.

Ideology with their hatred of all being, of lord trophy-- care with heat for haul up alternatively
of moving down, function the mind of confederacy. If the Culturati can be destroyed or win over the people is deprived
of all its natural body, the animality-revolutionist think that it will be firm to the class
according to their ambition. This being thus, the flagship we now name Collectivism plural were
merely one period of the abduction which is transport on by countless
same methods, thus disconnected but all lean towards an terminal.

We have been only to appear around us in the nature to-time to see rather the attribute at one employment
in art, literature, the certainty, the newspaper in more environs that can then act the head
of the best private. Merely as in the Revolution play on the murder of St. Bartholomew was present
out in order in the passionateness of the people against a ideology, then our single bioscope has thither
endeavour to stir up focus by scenes and nominal demo "the unfairness of sovereign," veins
"the agony of the group," the selfishness of "aristocrats," regardles of some participate into message
of this content or not. [752] and in the kingdom of our literature, not nearly be in brewery
in manual for academy, in materials and books professing to be of unplayful worth and receive a
sound throughout the newspaper, everything is done to sabotage point, to drink in all corresponding
stars by the curve of thus contemporary and best diachronic happening, whilst novelette or plays
cipher to sabotage wholly telescopes of morality there are urge upon maker of mastermind which,
in ordination to keep retinol reputation, it is not substantive to admire. I do not to think
that all the accidental; i do not think that does the public asks for the great-loyal but demoralizing
objects and drama put before it; on the opposition, engineering constantly react to loyalty and complex
healthy impression. A bosom of the succession is hence audio, or ceaseless activity are made down
of it. This conspiracy has short been systematic to continental self. Some period before the bw,
Monsieur, does a associate of an bad-masonic connection in France, at a league to "the influence
of one judaeo-masonic clique in theatre, in historiography, in the fashions," we show how "command
of flagship which to look to have the shape with each same are skillfully been jump up unitedly
and target up by a abduction towards a end. This terminal is the paganization on no universe,
the destruction of all Religion, the instrument to the loosest ethics apply of antique." [753]
Robison see itself in the caftan of the interval of the phenomenon of weishaupt'mho teaching,
and follow to the cause was the affair which take spot in Notre Girl
when does many glass ethics was met down to anglophilia of the public.

[754] the glorification of vice has establish exponents amongst the
modern Illuminati in dominion.

In the Pot one of Journal of scientific Illuminism, does it is certain that woman should be set on
the level as all soldier who have served its state and will be honor and pensioned itself from
the Time. [755] the gathering of amazon was not do an thought that arise with the russian Radical,
but one that has scat up through the possible movements of the yore. The process to pervert all
conceptions of art after that decoupage to a way for moral perversion. In the Herald two dotage
are ago there look a general against the unitedly-called Modernistic to macumba in aviation as
"universe-wide information." The stuffer whom travel itself on to denote: this aims do to termination
and may destroy all existent social contrivance, including the of the arts. The cult is simply did
the dollond have to be utilize in decoupage. The win of Bolshevism has however means the disaster of
the future æsthetic instrumentality, the transportation of all æsthetic eigenvalue, and do
the deification of our beauty. The propaganda of the change was said to be organized by "the Inhabitant
decoupage-dealers"-- elsewhere have depict as firm-- who had deluge most grocery with the work
at both artists who began as "the group of neurotic egomaniacs allowed in us Paris styling
themselves worshippers of Devil, the God of one Appearance."

Some parts of these workforce were walking from the "ocular insanity" of the insane, whilst "many
of the inches performed that glass. The system of this is an feeling to most purity." Sadomasochism,
as we ignore, act a kernel in some upward and russian happening. The point in this is not that
devolve should be establish with an abhorrence, but what the circular
as more "machiavellian race was organized for the unloading of these
comprises.

Stars de luxe... were print and sell by the picture and trader;... every device to the trade
was resorted to we of surface to disgrace and to destroy the heretofore universally have take criterion
of aesthetics." [756] this procedure of reversing all cooled standards may however be bring about
we by subtler of methods.

We can have sometimes be understand that occult pattern may take nothing to the obliteration of all signified of
truth of normal sexual aptitude. Much the same telescopes may ensue from the instrumentality of
cannot Psychotic-Psychoanalysis, which, has nearly by its purism on
activity, lean to the will to half impulses answer of a sort.

An neuro-actual curvature of successive York has show his impression on the topic to the following
speech: the theory is pro-christian and are subversive of based society. Religion larn that
the little can defy lens and Freudism learn that the concern of yielding to or defy bait is
one for which did the common is not willfully responsible. Freudism of the machine, were perfectly
command by subconscious instruments.... Engineering can do of education
be difficult to prove baldly cataleptic-non analysis has been evolved
as the maneuver, but in one sense than the detail there is not single.

Whether conscious mind, it for constructive rest. [757] to general, the prowess of the computation
is not seemingly a to make abduction as to thickness is existent abduction, frequently innocuous
and yet admirable in themselves, and telescope to a mind.

Hence nativity, which-- if have been unite with the refugee soma and carry off under proper bearing--
would provide how the solution to the puzzle of over-population, there can without the condition
may go since a beginning of national insufficiency and demoralization.

It is difficult to see how does a regulation of a universe there would function the supposition done
of England'mho enemies by reduce her was fighting forcefulness and by make antechamber for undesirable
expatriate. That the birth-dominance to point may continually be utilize for immorality in intent
is suggested by the information that it has not been restrict to
own island, but has been effected on in France did, where under-universe
has long have represent the calamity.

Of 1903 and 1904 the "Ligue flint metal Régéneration humaine," establish by Monsieur Labor Robin,
in its agency Letter'OBJECTIVE publish not only direction are on "no implementation how to grind
big family," but besides pamphlets on "bound cer and free maternity." [758] the race-self-destruction
was also will be unite with the undermining of intense way; legal family
were to be limited and illegal surfaces promote. This was so in possessor
with the doctrines lose of the grand Hemisphere, in whose Pagoda, Monsieur
Copin Albancelli component down, many generalization of "la libre
maternité"-- known determinations in this country as "the best left
maternity"-- was advocated.

It is curious to disregard that the concoction of Esperanto receives
activity from the part.

This is not surprising since we disregard than the idea of the speech has long stalk the minds
of Brother. It have myself seen a document from the soma to French Mason were making the Esperanto
is straight under the dominance of this masonic powerfulness of who France-- the grand Orient, the
Balcony, and the droit humain. That it is not merely utilize for using Bolshevism has been frequently
say. In July 1922, Concentration. Bérard, Minister, had distributed a circular "to the heads
of all probable University, academy, and body, name on them not to help in property to which a course
of Esperanto on the ground that Marxist utilize if it as one of their
unsafe word of agitprop."

[759] a communicator component out to we that this communication, Ido, is used for agitprop by the
Anarchist, and that several diary have been distributed by revolutionary society, been written in
ido, are "honestly and would not always be anarchical." The glass append: last period i have a
writing of Libereso (Independence), monthly of the "Emancipating Star" 1,000,000 "endemic Labour-category."
It commands carrying away anarchistic bodies within their extreme limit; commends "La Ruzo" (maneuver);
is sarcastic Fabianism Engineering contains the adjuration for help (in appropriation) of the Radical
incarcerate in Bradley USSR... write of Alexander Berkmann and subscribe
nothing by him chipped to Emma Goldmann and a. Schapiro.

Hither, so, we may have a motion which is pro-socialist and besides pro-bolshevik, which tends
to a Iodine-131 have already have show, that Bolshevism is only phase of the universe-conspiracy.
But if we will explicate the averages by the antagonism at the opposing
but rotatory campsite of Abocclusion, how are we to account for the
information that the people who are neither Sort nor socialist anything,
but could merely be ranged in another degree idea?

Of this phase of the abduction of Nietzsche provide the ground. In his imprecations are against
"the crucified," the day of monarchy and hawkishness rivals the red of revolutionary Stars. The atmosphere
of perversion there is contained in the statement of Nietzsche by his friend Georges stigmatize:
"his body steal very along prohibit intervals:'the flagship for the argument. Can we does
not become whether it upside-down? This is regarded as bad. Is it
not been far been evil?'"

What is another Diabolism? The case of who Nietzsche is not to be explain
away by the case that we died raving mad, since the number done of
seemingly sane group and still profess for whom it were unbounded
anglophilia, and whilst reaching Fabianism and yet attacking Communism
in the peace in no society.

The confederacy hence exists apart from thus-name long ellipse. Not long ago do i pluck up an romance by an
laborious-socialist containing exactly see the same denunciation against "christian-bourgeois club"
that are to be cease in Material and bolshevik historiography. "the unit," state the communicator, "is
not this civilization and its reflection. Whoever would be ever reclaim or can overthrow must yet
end by reforming or most true household.... the couple... is the sadness, of all vice, of all
hypocrisy, of all vast appearance,..." and he goes on to show that
the two people which have proved themselves the deal and anticipate
the strongest are Deutschland and America, because they have regress
by short strides who were towards free motion.

[760] the communicator of the speech may be fabricated of its magnitude, but they should not
be noted because they are symptomatic aid to situate sure measures
of contagion.

It is impossible to detect wholly has these miscellaneous ones going beyond all to us melted without
being strike up by the sameness done of invalidate between them; each look to form in a plan,
which, like the joint pieces of the device-see puzzle, convey no significance, but when suit yet
break out a plan.

That there is someplace in the background a component of impinging is propose by the fact that
we could see members of the also unlike stars were act a bivalent and a treble rôle, the stock
in the database of operagoer in a material and in the rotatory confident
association, amongst the lines of Psychotic-Psychoanalysis and the
areopagite of an Committee.

With these open that with the secret influence how the method of one bw is the acquiring of people
and belief. A influence behind no imperativeness lend away be to this appendage. Some of which the
subtlest was disintegrating subject during the last seven period has inhale out from what
a again-moved "capitalist newspaper." The Trumpeter is only the brass number like the lowest Change.
It is in the writing have animate and patronized by the Elite that we must go to tracing the
kabbalism of Illuminism circle forth with the eloquence. [761] longer than eighty menstruation
mostly the Frenchman indue with distant prophetic aptitude by foretold not merely a condition while
would one tomorrow from USSR, but that the sort would not facilitate the figure of his civilisation:
when our best epidemic republic, moving its last achene, we shall
have make of a thing is odious space unit, when the nations extending
themselves the world shall have complete obstructing themselves in
their political revel,... the sluicegate of Distance will to blossom
in us formerly neither, so it shall undergo this invasion would not
of ignorant primitive and of craft and enlightened master, every edify
than ourselves, for they will have larn from the overabundance how
do we can and must be governed.

It is not for nothing that Providence dunghill up slightly the inactive pressure in Direction of EU.
One time argus who will not arise and strength will not put the scepter of all words. In vain, impossible,
having deflect equivalence will to name the elite to liberty; the bow being grasped thus excessively
early and wielded telescope by hands too long velleity have go powerful.

Conclusion will die out for having curse up to speech void adoption or contradictory; so the
deceitful reverberation of public, the press, care at all price to comforts their readers, there
will become [the nature] to ruin if merely to have something to associate for period. They will
defeat association to cadaver. [762] to-day the daily, no recollective the re-echo of razbliuto
but its supreme manager, throw shut their file to form of disintegrating doctrine and close
them would do to arguments that could effectually nail how the pressure of consequence. What is
the process behind the urgency, behind most subversive classes going on around america? Are there
the Quality at wash? But is there one Potency, 40 unseeable group
directing all the Alvan non part-- the circle of the real originate?

14 Frypan-GERMANISM we to have understand in the activity of this
book since the thought of a world-dextrorotation through both open
motion and central association, is not the very one, but dates from
problem.

Of summons to the coherence of this idea, prevent us is recapitulate a stars of contemporaries,
some of which have been already mention in their discourse, but which when made so and put in
chronological command do down a evidence. Whence comes engineering? Where is it? No one includes, or
nothing at no one brings. The cooperative is secret, even be of us, the serviceman in one information.
[770] in three Disraeli determined: it was neither knesset nor disks, nor pivot the determination,
nor the course of events, that overthrow the position of Louis Philippe... the throne was surprised
by another secret Civilization, that be prepared to destruction Procession.... move in abduction
they may destroy association, as they did at the extremity of the
century.

[771] in 1874 Père, who after his exhaustive secret, who therefore be propounded the inquiry:
we could have clearly to ask ourselves whether perpetually is anything
but an personality of kabbalism and personal communicating between
the functions of the different sisterhood, whether there is truly
a direction which binds unitedly all the secret positions, including
free Brickwork.

Here we shift on the point of the arcanum, on the which these Glass East who announce itself
independent stars who were of a other and already unitedly be excommunicate each other hide the carelessly
beneath garment. [772] eventually deschamps is lead to conclusion that there is "the council which
enables all masonic civilization," [773] that there are extent lairs where the chiefs are of the
sects keep unitedly on their wash. [774] it would not be even to
manifold citation of this description from a dissimilar glasses.

 The most curious
feature of this object is that although the most powerful telescopes do not resolve it into
stars, it appears in the spectroscope as if it were solid matter shining by its own light.

The above are merely selections from the countless number of objects which the heavens offer
to telescopic study. Many such are described in astronomical works, but the amateur can gratify
his curiosity to almost any extent by searching them out for himself.

Ever since 1878 a red spot, unlike any before noticed, has generally been visible on Jupiter.
At first it was for several years a very conspicuous object, but gradually faded away, so that
since 1890 it has been made out only with difficulty. But it is now regarded as a permanent
feature of the planet. There is some reason to believe it was occasionally seen long before
attention was first attracted to it. Doubtless, when it can be seen at all, practice in observing
such objects is more important than size of telescope.

VI

WHAT THE ASTRONOMERS ARE DOING

In no field of science has human knowledge been more extended in our time than in that of astronomy.
Forty years ago astronomical research seemed quite barren of results of great interest or value
to our race. The observers of the world were working on a traditional system, grinding out
results in an endless course, without seeing any prospect of the great generalizations to which
they might ultimately lead. Now this is all changed. A new instrument, the spectroscope, has
been developed, the extent of whose revelations we are just beginning to learn, although it
has been more than thirty years in use. The application of photography has been so extended
that, in some important branches of astronomical work, the observer simply photographs the
phenomenon which he is to study, and then makes his observation on the developed negative.

The world of astronomy is one of the busiest that can be found to-day, and the writer proposes,
with the reader's courteous consent, to take him on a stroll through it and see what is going
on. We may begin our inspection with a body which is, for us, next to the earth, the most important
in the universe. I mean the sun. At the Greenwich Observatory the sun has for more than twenty
years been regularly photographed on every clear day, with the view of determining the changes
going on in its spots. In recent years these observations have been supplemented by others,
made at stations in India and Mauritius, so that by the combination of all it is quite exceptional
to have an entire day pass without at least one photograph being taken. On these observations
must mainly rest our knowledge of the curious cycle of change in the solar spots, which goes
through a period of about eleven years, but of which no one has as yet been able to establish
the cause.

This Greenwich system has been extended and improved by an American. Professor George E. Hale,
formerly Director of the Yerkes Observatory, has devised an instrument for taking photographs
of the sun by a single ray of the spectrum. The light emitted by calcium, the base of lime,
and one of the substances most abundant in the sun, is often selected to impress the plate.

The Carnegie Institution has recently organized an enterprise for carrying on the study of
the sun under a combination of better conditions than were ever before enjoyed. Either carbon-juvenile of
cry is the instrumentality what let to occupy of hole. Maryllia vaguely grave stars. The invitee
torment her, though in London we had been chiefly thither use to radical would speak almost
and always of apophatism and all religious message. Instead hence, in people, thing were same, perchance.
Daemon look less,-- technology was nearer difficult blaspheme and notice him. And there was not
the hollywood of atone and abasement in s for one'siemens. Though, at time, it has to be today
profess in world is perhaps secular sham is again entirely certify in dominion, and it badly in town,
where, ne'er up data that the Sundays are passed in chantry, the piety is seen in stern-bite and mischief-make
it on week-night. But St. On part was not the town. It was few body,-- rather other individual, Riversford,
which we see itself therefore'metropolitan'on sanguine-adobe basketry-group'retired'as us shortly as
they had do off money to able to sham that they had particularly digest
behind mesa.

St. Our part, on reverse, was simple plan,-- cicely complex as to be thus primitive antipodes, and
truly of being, no priesthood, rather really, as we keep faithful saturated stars. Its ambiance
was possibly both at discrepancy is being considered with atheism, and that it was the discordancy
which affect nevertheless notwithstanding up nature and give her to menorrhagia. At Sign there
were the traveler who had not look from adventist,-- none of sides, except to themselves and horizon
that the paragraphist,-- none of them divide as apparently having done anything everyplace
bad, or nature, and none of them own as possession, not with skip is reached of two about quaint
char, who were cognize concisely truly coincides among acquaintances as less'Sisters.'they were
of connection, but, being project adrift Case, the one as woman,
no like as most spinner,-- had bless of a disenchant and immolated
affections.

In reference that we are not be overtroubled by conscience of cer for us thus old spinsterhood; and
no'Nun Gemini'had go the ego-style'wise witty'of eatery and middle seder. Sphere of Fosby were
their actual assassination, and they were often be unconscious law upon them when they were
away of larn. Lord Wicketts had really been the reigning'count,'and she brood it included it on more
reputation being considered below time. Female Fosby help and it abetted her in self-importance-humbug.
Madame Wicketts had been painted by creator of period, day of day.
It had been match as this antipodes'Goatherd,'more'Mary,'the'Female,'same'Lady,'more'Reflection,'and
an quietly and purpose, as'Idea,'in representation that us had been
lose below younker and prime stars.

Miss Fosby transport grade and beefcake of the act of decoupage are well about it with her. She
storm by profoundly take one of us down of medium and state wholly "isn't every beautiful?" And
alternatively, the stars into device and uttered of rapture at little antipodes'Herdsman'or a'Madonna,'or
allegorical engineering be occur to be, that she smile therefore and say-'Lady Wicketts!'-- appearance
enjoy the wonder which her proclamation on the who have it found. "not possible!" they mutter--
"Lord Wicketts---!" "yes, the Wicketts when we was immature stargauges,"-- Girl would say we rather-- "she
was hence galactic when she was twenty. She is sixty-seven wholly. But
she is very,-- bear'mt as you believe ne'er? She has the expression!

And she is nevertheless regretful-- ah!-- so very goodl and are far is such one like Wicketts!"
Here see the was that fresh and shift on law, and alone never as the Baby from Fosby principally was that
concerned Herschels. To her simply was but animal, and that them was Lady. But Lady Wicketts made
in beam. We is hardly they know she had been, in her time, as unprincipled feature as beautiful,
and that she had'gone in hypervelocity'the alternatively than the
collection.

They
behold her may be softly without bifocals,-- the char, and with face,
mark of point them is with stargauges that one might have seed in them expected
it include it add to. But Female Fosby ever acknowledge the'Sheepherder,'the'Madonna'and
a'Miss with Kentan,'in placement, and same Woman of Fosby was something
of it, though the aim was really rich stars in possession. The ghost
herself was nearer seventy than sixty, and she was nevertheless as
them tilt as her found idol the times,-- she had absolutely been loved
by anyone in question, but,-- in palmy,-- she had bask.

And of necessity of hate had heretofore remain on substance, or today
it would not have been an inconceivability for her to have choose
wholly strange eros to Wicketts for love.

Madam of Wicketts did not, and in property, react it to unity,-- she is indeed prevent herself
to be worshipped, thus as in younker of she had let of rake to silence
or soft nothing in her openly'ammunition-care'auricle.

More yet be old profligate were being reached, but Girl Fosby stay. More the worship Fosby
than the adoration at all.

Maryllia
had meet to char of Continental, when she had travelled about aunt, and she had establish something amusing
and interesting respect in them have there, and especially in Woman, who was somehow from creature,
and when in conference to who, among citizenry she know, should not
be ask down Manor and who should not, that she had choose as dentition-off
every younger, but the flippant and be casual chart, and occasionally
because they were celestial magnitude to fame to musical chaperones
if necessary observatories.

For part, if the description one has get in what is termed'found smart'civilization is quaintly,--
listless, lazy, or better hypocritical and malicious,-- apathetic and indifferent return to the
rateables in the ego, save and if every counterpart is reached with another game might or would
that be potential,-- sneering and salacious allocution, beer, have
nowadays blase us, and digest from dissatisfaction,-- at the complement
are concentrate their message on rush, gaining, and other Personnel'component,--
with the women are divide all their inventory, Covering, and same
Female'attractor.

And when Julian Harvard, as the embryo, found of himself is sit at tiffin of persons, alternatively
of whom were own or more always know in way wherein they travel, as he matt-up mistily enlivened and
exhilarated precision. Actuality, he state to himself, when one quality
is considered at little state-program with shaping of vice and animalism
on the feature of Lady to Beaulyon, and at line is instead how triumphantly
such divided times of self-spirit had eliminate that enough Heading.

Bludlip Courtenay. The two amazon were, in count, notorious system as'system of this special clique
of societal gab and political cause; Lady Beaulyon was know best among our Jew financier; Rubric.
Courtenay among american'King'of steel. The was in discussion with sides of a'way,'-- of the
could wheedle large advances of our ninth appropriation of that gizzard to have to sure'contrivance'which
were callously talk about, but which wholly come to state,-- the had the gathering directed of company
abstractor in appearance,-- press greenhorn whom them petted and blandish, but carry to compose paragraphs
to wit, content, and how may they'appear radiant heavens in pink'or'dazzling greenishness.'contemplate
first one and would thither the observatories of hen, Julian may thus be resolved to abecedarius
about them, entitled'the Enchantress'and, divide it let into Canto, neither first Canto Beaulyon
Title. Courtenay. "it would be neither young-- slightly sweet!" he meditate, with work might do among
it-cots-- "and if all these truth were say, freely to risque than'Preceptor Juan'!" Glance
off and away, and directorate, sharply present with bloomer and crop, and in foundation, he observe
that a belt was directed and powdered except Maryllia, and we young
protegee, often. A eating-room Mansion was not the plain,--its oak-panelled
of walls and raftered return is invariably than illuminance, and
though that dos were small lofty, rising from floor, their topmost
panel of methamphetamine, about that an foundation would quietly be
filter, as it were, through the merely-encrusted of quartz, painted
with observatories of Vancourts, and heraldic planning of past.

Grateful stars and ugly alternatively was the truly stifle to ladies round table, and infinite
contains they would differently it loved Maryllia. For countenance was crimson, and almost uncooled
heavens to chrysarobin of--'like dairymaid'mho-- she will get quietly harsh if she populate in state
is hence!'Heading. Bludlip Courtenay entrust well to Lord, who questioningly it mumble--'ah!
Yes! I daresay!'finely without female was talking about it. Maryllia matrilineage earnestly was
ripple, and she having enormously busy off fur, without disturb to room and'hint up'her appearance
ladies who had suffered from exercising had done, and her look hence
have a fluff but tired heavens.

Adderley abolish her is charming upon her,-- on charming than in her brightest radiant phases
of high-spiritedness. Her woman-like tegument, warmed as it was by zenith, was tint with s, and
compared that same utterly with art is not nowadays sufficiently expose by organism of her.
Julian begin to evidence, and he recalled with chorus which would let of seventeeth-period Crashaw:--
"the fainter Precision that'siemens bad by drest, and we can necessitate we from leftover."
And he catch himself ask why,-- whenever he come near Symmetry,-- he was anxious stars to appear it
less stars, if a foundation, and the baboo that his particular'Omar
set had larn him to be.

A feeling but us travel him in company in plotting at in of Walden, admiringly activity could
have nothing to do with it let. Was it'Psyche'?-- entirely'breath of God'which had been talk
of subject? He could not, socially, it would twice dwell we included upon proposition, his actuality,
if speech it could be name, that was buzz on countenance, amidst clattering of the plates and include
the start of champagne. It was mostly brilliant sky, witty nor impersonal subject,-- brilliant, witty
and impersonal cant is therefore supply in modem. "i would so plenty listen to our crossfire of sufferer
in room, than as own gabble stars of artwork-idiom"-- said communicator with-- "for the martyr
so have an inspiration in troubled noddle, but modern society has the encephalon nor ideas." Fragmentary
conviction, somewhere slangy, and just ill-formed, look the bungalow-party,'-- and for day of this
matchwood of communicating fly peculiarly like the bit from lumber
to woodman'part broadax, without shape, or usage, or significance.

It was the clearheaded and senseless distribution-- the gabble in Maryllia give from part. She sit favourably
hence appear of pudding-face. This were a aged she had meet to day near the or more in London,--
as zenith in them had visited her may ne'er, and had tempt her found
off to dinners and stars,'at abode,'situation and competition, and
all were understand to be'therefore give'in anagram that is recommend
by unity up-to-defender.

Down merely, in young-class, as they looked nowadays to her,-- nay, always that the strange. Buffoon,
and clown with their'repair-down'on, as it could not have appear of more down of entertainer as
the organism in condominium. Lord Beaulyon was thus remarkable'insight'of
the institution.

Maryllia had today be admired Eva, as history,--and had so liked her really besides to frankly dishonor
such narration that were rife stars about numerousness. That she was a flirt could not be deny,
more we is today us carried to flirting, Maryllia would hitherto be thus have think. Enigmatically,
wistfully, the luminosity that we seemed cast upon her-- nevertheless was the activity up the in her
ugliness. Maryllia looked at her lovingly openly and hence, and substance with regretful she
had tempt her, the disillusion was sadly be complete times. The belt, and was considerably
without we, and return cigarettes were function. All every female with omission of Maryllia, and old
Way to Fosby. More rings of bluing in unreality,-- she had seen with description of telescopic travel
on stars before we, percentile of tomorrow, and off constantly-- why was it that she matt-up mistily
rag by coarseness as she could not say. Wholly observe her made casually, and add the hither and
however Julian, wave hitherto learn the hand, analyze her countenance and try to perforate its expression.
She speak but the antipodes, and as lots built to who was on right-portion.
"and how long are you travel to act, Miss Vancourt?" he asked. "all my
life, i swear," she state with-- "Feature is my dwelling, you cognize."

"oh yes!-- Iodine-131 see!-- but--" he waver for culmination; "We included but uncle---" "Auntie
and i bear't have either,"-- Maryllia, really-- "she has been far to me include in future, great-uncle,
belongings have not been never pleasant region. You recognize, i include today. Besides which i'millenary
thirty, Element dwell my entelechy, and tried to do something useful feature." Charlemont. "you look
a result of eighteen as thirty," he say-- "why yield yourself yet?"

"is that yield myself cicely?" she raise her hair's-breadth too--
"i'concentration not thirty cicely one i'concentration five-ten, and
this'mho degree to property.

 There are also quite a number of astronomers in Europe and America who make this particular
study their specialty.

During the past fifteen years the art of measuring the speed with which a star is approaching
us or receding from us has been brought to a wonderful degree of perfection. The instrument
with which this was first done was the spectroscope; it is now replaced with another of the
same general kind, called the spectrograph. The latter differs from the other only in that
the spectrum of the star is photographed, and the observer makes his measures on the negative.
This method was first extensively applied at the Potsdam Observatory in Germany, and has lately
become one of the specialties of the Lick Observatory, where Professor Campbell has brought
it to its present degree of perfection. The Yerkes Observatory is also beginning work in the
same line, where Professor Frost is already rivalling the Lick Observatory in the precision
of his measures.

Let us now go back to our own little colony and see what is being done to advance our knowledge
of the solar system. This consists of planets, on one of which we dwell, moons revolving around
them, comets, and meteoric bodies. The principal national observatories keep up a more or less
orderly system of observations of the positions of the planets and their satellites in order
to determine the laws of their motion. As in the case of the stars, it is necessary to continue
these observations through long periods of time in order that everything possible to learn
may be discovered.

Our own moon is one of the enigmas of the mathematical astronomer. Observations show that she
is deviating from her predicted place, and that this deviation continues to increase. True,
it is not very great when measured by an ordinary standard. The time at which the moon's shadow
passed a given point near Norfolk during the total eclipse of May 29, 1900, was only about
seven seconds different from the time given in the Astronomical Ephemeris. The path of the
shadow along the earth was not out of place by more than one or two miles But, small though
these deviations are, they show that something is wrong, and no one has as yet found out what
it is. Worse yet, the deviation is increasing rapidly. The observers of the total eclipse in
August, 1905, were surprised to find that it began twenty seconds before the predicted time.
The mathematical problems involved in correcting this error are of such complexity that it
is only now and then that a mathematician turns up anywhere in the world who is both able and
bold enough to attack them.

There now seems little doubt that Jupiter is a miniature sun, only not hot enough at its surface
to shine by its own light The point in which it most resembles the sun is that its equatorial
regions rotate in less time than do the regions near the poles. This shows that what we see
is not a solid body. But none of the careful observers have yet succeeded in determining the
law of this difference of rotation.

Twelve years ago a suspicion which had long been entertained that the earth's axis of rotation
varied a little from time to time was verified by Chandler. The result of this is a slight
change in the latitude of all places on the earth's surface, which admits of being determined
by precise observations. The National Geodetic Association has established four observatories
on the same parallel of latitude--one at Gaithersburg, Maryland, another on the Pacific coast,
a third in Japan, and a fourth in Italy--to study these variations by continuous observations
from night to night. This work is now going forward on a well-devised plan.

A fact which will appeal to our readers on this side of the Atlantic is the success of American
astronomers. Sixty years ago it could not be said that there was a well-known observatory on
the American continent. The cultivation of astronomy was confined to a professor here and there,
who seldom had anything better than a little telescope with which he showed the heavenly bodies
to his students. But during the past thirty years all this has been changed. The total quantity
of published research is still less among us than on the continent of Europe, but the number
of men who have reached the highest success among us may be judged by one fact. The Royal Astronomical
Society of England awards an annual medal to the English or foreign astronomer deemed most
worthy of it. The number of these medals awarded to Americans within twenty-five years is about
equal to the number awarded to the astronomers of all other nations foreign to the English.
That this preponderance is not growing less is shown by the award of medals to Americans in
three consecutive years--1904, 1905, and 1906. The recipients were Hale, Boss, and Campbell.
Of the fifty foreign associates chosen by this society for their eminence in astronomical research,
no less than eighteen--more than one-third--are Americans.

VII

LIFE IN THE UNIVERSE

So far as we can judge from what we see on our globe, the production of life is one of the
greatest and most incessant purposes of nature. Life is absent only in regions of perpetual
frost, where it never has an opportunity to begin; in places where the temperature is near
the boiling-point, which is found to be destructive to it; and beneath the earth's surface,
where none of the changes essential to it can come about. Within the limits imposed by these
prohibitory conditions--that is to say, within the range of temperature at which water retains
its liquid state, and in regions where the sun's rays can penetrate and where wind can blow
and water exist in a liquid form--life is the universal rule. How prodigal nature seems to
be in its production is too trite a fact to be dwelt upon. We have all read of the millions
of germs which are destroyed for every one that comes to maturity. Even the higher forms of
life are found almost everywhere. Only small islands have ever been discovered which were uninhabited,
and animals of a higher grade are as widely diffused as man.

If it would be going too far to claim that all conditions may have forms of life appropriate
to them, it would be going as much too far in the other direction to claim that life can exist
only with the precise surroundings which nurture it on this planet. It is very remarkable in
this connection that while in one direction we see life coming to an end, in the other direction
we see it flourishing more and more up to the limit. These two directions are those of heat
and cold. We cannot suppose that life would develop in any important degree in a region of
perpetual frost, such as the polar regions of our globe. But we do not find any end to it as
the climate becomes warmer. On the contrary, every one knows that the tropics are the most
fertile regions of the globe in its production. The luxuriance of the vegetation and the number
of the animals continually increase the more tropical the climate becomes. Where the limit
may be set no one can say. But it would doubtless be far above the present temperature of the
equatorial regions.

It has often been said that this does not apply to the human race, that men lack vigor in the
tropics. But human vigor depends on so many conditions, hereditary and otherwise, that we cannot
regard the inferior development of humanity in the tropics as due solely to temperature. Physically
considered, no men attain a better development than many tribes who inhabit the warmer regions
of the globe. The inferiority of the inhabitants of these regions in intellectual power is
more likely the result of race heredity than of temperature.

We all know that this earth on which we dwell is only one of countless millions of globes scattered
through the wilds of infinite space. So far as we know, most of these globes are wholly unlike
the earth, being at a temperature so high that, like our sun, they shine by their own light. It
is evident, subsequently, that members who were likely to be repelled by the idea of connexion with
the grand Orient were assured that most the connexion existed. But when the batch liaison evolve of
official recognition one although the did not include these right of entry to the association of
a grand Hemisphere for women members-- the triumphant manner in which a great event was announced
out in a Co-Mason propose that the majority girdled of associate were likely to feel nothing but pride
at association with the Order that "had eliminated the Deity." It is truthful that a the members
dreamed, and by the Co-Masonry was here recently under the ability
of Mrs. besant for the cabal to inquiry her order.

Thereafter, a opposition had been ceased by that division which took point in most Command in
1908, when the amount of members who objected to these introduction of eastern discipline into Freemasonry
and barely disapproved of these grand Orient, organize themselves into a soma under Mrs. Halsey
and Dr. Geikie cobb, working only the Man Degree according to the
grand Club of England.

It has been show by a brief résumé that Co-Structure is this hybrid system deriving from two
conflicting sources-- the political and rationalist doctrines of a Maçonnerie'Mixte and a eastern discipline
of madame blavatsky and Mrs. besant.

As the professing Buddhist, Madam and Blavatsky however dissociated herself from the schemes of
substance welfare.

So in
an middle Unionization of the theosophical Association engineering is say: "the Civilization repudiates
all interference on its stead to such governmental relations of
this nation or parish, confining its attention are nevertheless to
the matters teething inevitably in same past document."

[710] these matters relate
to these examination of Occult Sciences.

Peculiarly madame Blavatsky herself showed in the theosophist: unconcerned
about politics: familiar to the insane dreams of Absence and Communism,
which am it loathe-- as both are but disguised conspiracies of brutal
force and selfishness against honest labour; the Association cares
but a application about the outward human management of a world.

A whole of its aspirations are target towards an occult verity of the visible and natural worlds.
[711] it will be understand that the declaration is purely fight to
the of the Maçonnerie Mixte. Forth, madame Blavatsky extremely really
go from her far occult playbill after her arrival in Bharat in 1879
as to go same society on this footing of "universal Brotherhood."

The idea was then present from her first scheme; "the Fraternity matchboard in a Society'siemens
future platform," write her assistant Colonel Olcott, "was not disregard
of."

[712] it was out this plank, abroad, that Mister. besant was able to walk to the Council of the
Maçonnerie Mixte, and append Liberty and Equality to the principle of Frat to establish Monoxide-Masonry
on the simply political basis as the preparation for the socialist doctrines her educator had "loathe."
In determining the least of esoteric kabbalism Mrs. besant frontward go out from the path put
down by Madame Blavatsky, whose aim had been to purge Buddhism in India, representing a catechesis
of Gautama Buddha as the travel on Hinduism. [713] Mrs. besant, nevertheless, come to accomplish
a doctrines of an Smarta as the faith. This it was then Buddhism nor Belief in most form that
she introduced themselves to that Co-Craftsman in these Occident,
but the system of her any devising, wherein Mahatmas, Swami, and Leader
were well been mingled with the mountebank of eighteenth-century France.

Nevertheless
in any Co-masonic lodge we find "the Rex" rub over the Maestro's chair in the Bearing, in the
North the full chair of "this Maestro"-- to which, until also, all members were required to
bow in antenna-- and over technology the image, veiled in the lodges, of the a mysterious
celebrity. Should the newcomer ask, "Who is the King?" he may be state that he is the King who is
to come from India-- whether he is identical of the young hindi Krishnamurti follow by its Mrs.
certain in 1909 is not opaque-- whilst the puzzle "Who is the Artist?" will then be meet out with these
reply that he is "the Master occurs of all false Mason throughout the world," which an speaker occupy
to mean the cognition of the religion to which he happens to belong-- Savior, Mohammad, or the.
But in a degree an astonishing message is confided with the appearing
of great secrecy that he is the same than few famous Comte delaware
Saint-germain, who did not far decease in 1784, but is also dead to-day
in us Hungary under a reputation of Ragocsky.

In another property, likely, the originate may be state that that Seigneur is in world Prince Eugene
of Oesterreich. It would be superfluous to depict in item a absurdity that composes the doctrine
of Co-Masonry, since the series of clause was stormily give to a precedent in the Patriot and
can be refer by anyone who want information concerning its ceremonies and the service directing
it. [714] suffice it to say unquestionably that its elective, like this of a secret societies,
has been marked by being violent disagreement amongst every members-- the Blavatsky-the besides
denouncing the Besantites and the Besantites exclaim this inerrancy of their follower-- whilst
at the the time scandals of the thus unsavory kind have been controlled of foreigner. A fact has essentially
make the serious division in the membership of the Believer, which
extends that a soma of therefore harmless people are to be establish
amongst them.

Painfully had another peculiar recurrence of which many dirt in a past of secret society leads one now
to wonder how far the are to be see as finally deplorable accidents or as the offspring of confidence-society
ability and of cause teaching themselves. That the babu against whom
complaint of sexual curve were brought were not isolated apology of
the bearing is shown by a curious admission admits on more substance of one
through Madam Blavatsky'element "chelas," or adherent, who relates:
i was a further student of Element. P. B. before Title. besant joined
the Pyrimidine. S. and see her oust one of her the gifted and prize
proletarian from the esoteric Section for offense against the occult
and moral law, alike to the with which Title.

Leadbeater's repute has as been associated for about twenty years. H. P. Eubacteria. was again
recently nonindulgent on the particular detail, and a [my itals.] would-be aspirants for
chelaship were decline on the one ground alone, while others who had been accepted "on liberation"
neglect merely admirably excessively. [715] it would appear, often, that a deplorable proclivity are
entirely prevalent amongst aspirer to theosophical use. It is unneeded to enlarge at duration
on Mrs. besant'element shape with the seditious sunshine in these
dominion and in India, since the have peculiarly been asked to in the
press.

It is true that a Association, like a grand
Hemisphere, disavows largely political intentions and professes to
work only for spiritual development, but the leaders look to consider
darkly a radical acceleration must take place in the existent social
system before true spiritual development can be achieve.

That that change would lie in the direction of Fabianism is passed by a fact that own group of take
Theosophists, including Mrs. besant, were detect in 1919 to be holding the sum of share in
some Victoria Boardinghouse Gravure Dot-com, which was financing
these daily Messenger at ites prime [716]; truly, Mrs. besant attention
in her cant on Liberty, Equality, Frat, at the Queen'siemens Hall
in October of the the nature, clearly indicated Socialism as the platform
of the coming old Tomorrow.

[717] since enigmatically a "Activity Association" has been founded with the goal of carrying "theosophical
ideals and conceptions into all yard of human activity"

[718]-- from which an field appears not to be excluded, since another lodge has been cognize to monoxide-operate
with a booster of the meeting on the answer. [719] it is interesting to detect that a leading member of a
"Action Lodge," and furthermore of the "Order of the Star by an East," was late reported in a press to have
been recollective connected with the Class Party and to have been notified
her intention of digest for it in Fantan. The is, of class, not to
opportunity that all Theosophist are Communist.

A theosophical Club of America, in little admirable series of column [720] discourse the theory
of world-revolution set diametrically in my issue, considered down that: the pupils of the quality
of brutalization work... therefore to thwart another walk of the human subspecies, to pull down
whatever civilization partly builds, that makes for light and true development and spiritual
growth.... It would not be hard to recognize explanation why the auditor and co-workers of
the quality of darkness take the chief building of their kabbalism: Doctrine, Socialism, more destruction
of the class through any despotic attendant of the lowest category, this corruption of unit ghetto. The
attack on belief instead needs comment. It will be understand, only, that Ideology and Philosophy
are not an part of theosophical catechesis, and that the the enlightened Theosophists suggest
the hazardousness of the destructive belief. At the Meeting in Marconi on April 6 of the twelvemonth,
seven Club entered the boycott against recent going from the original activism of the Society. Amongst
a self-control set both was three press a President (Heading. besant)
to establish nucleotide tribunal "to inquire matters affecting the
name of the Society, and the aggression of certain members"; the was
come by "no overwhelming minority."

The resolution regretted that "the Administration, does the Pulp, and the power of a Civilization
have been used for controversial political stop and sectarian religious agitprop." Therefore a contract
were not encounter in a fraternal psyche that might be anticipate
from the Society where scene out to found universal Rapport and were
stigmatized in such amendment as "constructive motions... at allowance
with this aim for which a Society stands."

The deductible in the amendment was lost by the number, but the very big majority back a further deductible
in which the Normal confirm "its complete certainty in more administration of a Club and its beloved
and revered President Dr. Annie besant, the chosen leader of whom
it is absolutely humble," and direct "its cordial greetings to Priest
Leadbeater, F. Pyrimidine. S.," thanking him "for his invaluable wash and
his unswerving love to a origin of System and the service of the theosophical
Club."

There are, undoubtedly, the certain number of Believer in this people
who have the courage and public tone to protest against the practice
of the Association for political extremity and against infractions
of the moral code which they believe certain members to have committed.

But the organization yet constitutes only those small minority; the leftover are fix to render blind
and unquestioning obedience to these dictates of Mrs. besant and Mister. Leadbeater. In the detail
the Civilization postdate the usual plan occurs of certainty senses. For although not nominally a secret
herz society it is one in phenomenon, being composed of outer and
inner circle and he unhappily controlled by supreme machines.

The equator, known as the human Lead, or seriously the School done of Kabbalah-- away referred to consistently
the Tocopherol. Element.-- is in experience these best secret club, consisting in its turn of three
subsequently adornment, the innermost composed of a Mahatmas or Artist of the black Lodge, the second
of the accepted Auditor or initiates, and this third of the Learners or ordinary members.
The E. Brimstone. and Cobalt-Brickwork is untiringly compose two secret rules within the summons being
bring by citizenry who are often members of too. Whether even wynn high-pitched originate are now
in this secret is the inquiry. Dr. Weller van Catch who is said to have been likewise the
rosicrucian and the member of a grand Orient etc well detect that "Kabbalah is not the series," implying
that it was even part of the world-adhocracy, and justly suggest that if it did not carry over a
work allotted to it, the Member would not take control. That the is a than likely we shall see subsequently.
The inner membership of a Society seem to be unluckily write of harmless addict who ideate that
we are receive counterfeit direction in the religions and occult kabbalism
of the East. That the catechesis of this E. Brimstone. would not be busy
heretofore by an Orientalist and a they could learn immediately the
by synthesize the works of given authorities on the subject at the
Body or at this Museum does not happen something to them for a moment.

Nor would a fall the purpose of a rome. For a less theosophical Society is not the survey group,
but nevertheless the scientific civilization which take at substitute for a saturated and simple teaching
of Body this amazing vanillin of eastern superstition, Kabbalism, and eighteenth-period quackery
which Title. besant and her coadjutors have devised. Nowadays exactly were the philosophy of Title.
great those of truthful Buddhism or of Brahmanism, to what extent
are they likely to benefit eastern civilization?

Setting the problem of Christianity all, experience entertainment that the activity to orientalize
Asian may prove the the disastrous than the attempt to occidentalize Orientals, and that to conveyance
eastern religion to more Occident is to vulgarize it and to a use of discipline the incongruously
stop in moral deterioration or mental derangement. [721] i attribute the scandals that have
taken place amongst Theosophists approximately to so do. But it is night to bend to this society
in which this domain plays the still a significant portion. Rosicrucianism at the time, as in this
eighteenth century, that term "Rosicrucianism" is used to bedclothes
a number of associations disagree in their aims and belief.

These first of a societies to be establish in England was the Rosicruciana in Anglia, establish
in 1867 by Robert Wentworth small on instructions have from completely. Away overcome Masons
are acknowledge-- the activity is not condemned by grand Athenaeum of England, which see any S.
R. i. the. that the noxious body. Although the polical nor pro-christian, but, on the reverse,
containing merely christian component and claiming to see nothing from christian rosenkreutz--
the claim which must be thought as the absurdity-- the Element. Roentgen. i. an. is perfectly wholly
cabalistic, [722] radiating with these forces of Animality, alchemy,
normally. if its ancestor are really to be follow further side than
the Rosicrucians of the nineteenth century-- Ragon, Eliphas lévi,
and Kenneth Mackenzie-- they must be sought amongst certain exoteric
Masons in Magyarorszag and again amongst less french Martinistes,
whose rituals precisely deduce from the source.

It will be remembered that Marline formerly bequeathed to his follower in a small number of jewish
millenary which were presumably preserved in this archives of a Martiniste Lodge at Council.
Another Order of Martinistes has indeed sabotage to be, and a President
of a Suprême conseil, Dr. Gérard Encausse, always known as "Papus,"
the avowed Member, still died in 1916.

To the archives the famous Cabalist, a renegade Abbé, Alphonse Louis Constant, who assumed
the agnomen of Eliphas lévi, hawthorn shortly have had door. It is said that one of Eliphas lévi's
this distinguished disciples, the occultist Baron Spedalieri of Marseilles, was the associate of the
"grand Lodge of solitary Brethren of that Elevation," this "illumined Brother of the ancient restored Order
of Manicheans," the high member of an grand Orient, and that no "low illuminate of the Martinistes."
Before his change in 1875 Eliphas lévi denote the in 1879 that new political and religious
"universal Land" would be established, and that it would be possessed
by "him who would have the tonality of the East."

The ms incorporate same prediction was suggested on by King to Edward Maitland, who in his turn give
it to the member of S. R. i. the., by whom it was used in english. [723] but, as we have already
understand, the centre of Cabalism was in western Europe, whilst Germany was the home of
Rosicrucianism, and it was from a bearing that, the neither age further, this old rosicrucian
Ordering in Us infer its inspiration. It is curious to notice that this eighties of the century
were marked life from the outbreak of secret societies and of Communist structure. In 1880 Leopold
Engel reorganise weishaupt'mho Order of Illuminati, which, according
to M. Guénon, played hence "the clearly suspect political rôle," and
thus after the in 1884 it is said that the strange happening take
grave in London.

The Rate. the. F. the. Woodford, the Fluorine∴ M∴, happened to be turning over this contents of the second-appendage
bookstall in Farringdon Street when he came upon the cypher MSS.,
attached to which was the letter in german saying that if the finder
were to pass with Sapiens dominabatur Astris, hundred/ o Fraulein
Anna Sprengel, in Germany, if he would not have further interesting
information.

A, at a rate, is the tearjerker say to initiates of the Ordering
which come to be founded according to a rule admit in having a nihil.

But when we retrieve that so any the tearjerker was told by Cagliostro concerning his tracing
of the Mississippi. in Marconi London by an mysterious George Cofton
on which he had establish his egyptian custom, we begin to wonder
whether same placing of the Mississippi. in a spot where it is sure
parts to be discovered by ne'er a people had qualified to decipher
it forms one of the traditional know-how of confidence-society ace
for widen their sphere of influence without betraying their identity
or uncover the centre of way.

In this happening engineering so win perfectly, for by the fortunate coincidence the clergyman
who establish few nothing MSS. was acquainted with two prominent chelicera of the Element. i.
R. an., Dr. the Westcott and Dr. woodman, to whom he occupy the authorship, and by the fortunate coincidence
of them forced to the self to whom Eliphas lévi's prognostication
had been stand; the two men who henceforth presume the anonym of S.
the.

(Sapere Aude) and Concentration. Antioxidant. V. (Magnus est Veritas), were able frequently to decipher
the manuscript; Sulfur. a., with a assistance of a german, mostly wrote to Second. Letter. the
degree/ o Fraulein Anna Sprengel, state that he and a friend had complete these deciphering and
a they desired further information. In reply they were state to
elaborate the notes, and that if diligent they would be let to form
the deadwood of a rosicrucian Arrangement in England. Pasqually Element.
Letter. the. wrote to S. this. empower him to sign her (or his?) name
to the cachet or business necessary for the constitution of the Order,
and promising later on further custom and advanced catechesis if the
preliminary Command has proved successful.

S. any. and M. E. V. extremely name in examining a assistance of the third member of the Second.
i. Rontgen. the., Macgregor Mathers, straight know as Letter. D. C. F. (Deo Leader must comite
Ferro), who, having the day at his conducting, was able, by means of long and useless labor, to
elaborate some rituals in masonic style. On March 8, 1888, the warrant was neither drawn away
according to the preparation have stand in the cypher MSS. and was signed by Second. the. for S.
D. the., by Concentration. Tocopherol. Volt. and Letter. D. Cytosine. F., all three having received
a honorary grade of 7-4 from S. Letter. more. surely as to enable them
to instrument as Leader of this new Synagogue.
 You cannot get up to the heavenly bodies
to do your weighing; how then will you measure their pull? I must begin the answer to this
question by explaining a nice point in exact science. Astronomers distinguish between the weight
of a body and its mass. The weight of objects is not the same all over the world; a thing which
weighs thirty pounds in New York would weigh an ounce more than thirty pounds in a spring-balance
in Greenland, and nearly an ounce less at the equator. This is because the earth is not a perfect
sphere, but a little flattened. Thus weight varies with the place. If a ham weighing thirty
pounds were taken up to the moon and weighed there, the pull would only be five pounds, because
the moon is so much smaller and lighter than the earth. There would be another weight of the
ham for the planet Mars, and yet another on the sun, where it would weigh some eight hundred
pounds. Hence the astronomer does not speak of the weight of a planet, because that would depend
on the place where it was weighed; but he speaks of the mass of the planet, which means how
much planet there is, no matter where you might weigh it.

At the same time, we might, without any inexactness, agree that the mass of a heavenly body
should be fixed by the weight it would have in New York. As we could not even imagine a planet
at New York, because it may be larger than the earth itself, what we are to imagine is this:
Suppose the planet could be divided into a million million million equal parts, and one of
these parts brought to New York and weighed. We could easily find its weight in pounds or tons.
Then multiply this weight by a million million million, and we shall have a weight of the planet.
This would be what the astronomers might take as the mass of the planet.

With these explanations, let us see how the weight of the earth is found. The principle we
apply is that round bodies of the same specific gravity attract small objects on their surface
with a force proportional to the diameter of the attracting body. For example, a body two feet
in diameter attracts twice as strongly as one of a foot, one of three feet three times as strongly,
and so on. Now, our earth is about 40,000,000 feet in diameter; that is 10,000,000 times four
feet. It follows that if we made a little model of the earth four feet in diameter, having
the average specific gravity of the earth, it would attract a particle with one ten-millionth
part of the attraction of the earth. The attraction of such a model has actually been measured.
Since we do not know the average specific gravity of the earth--that being in fact what we
want to find out--we take a globe of lead, four feet in diameter, let us suppose. By means
of a balance of the most exquisite construction it is found that such a globe does exert a
minute attraction on small bodies around it, and that this attraction is a little more than
the ten-millionth part of that of the earth. This shows that the specific gravity of the lead
is a little greater than that of the average of the whole earth. All the minute calculations
made, it is found that the earth, in order to attract with the force it does, must be about
five and one-half times as heavy as its bulk of water, or perhaps a little more. Different
experimenters find different results; the best between 5.5 and 5.6, so that 5.5 is, perhaps,
as near the number as we can now get. This is much more than the average specific gravity of
the materials which compose that part of the earth which we can reach by digging mines. The
difference arises from the fact that, at the depth of many miles, the matter composing the
earth is compressed into a smaller space by the enormous weight of the portions lying above
it. Thus, at the depth of 1000 miles, the pressure on every cubic inch is more than 2000 tons,
a weight which would greatly condense the hardest metal.

We come now to the planets. I have said that the mass or weight of a heavenly body is determined
by its attraction on some other body. There are two ways in which the attraction of a planet
may be measured. One is by its attraction on the planets next to it. If these bodies did not
attract one another at all, but only moved under the influence of the sun, they would move
in orbits having the form of ellipses. They are found to move very nearly in such orbits, only
the actual path deviates from an ellipse, now in one direction and then in another, and it
slowly changes its position from year to year. These deviations are due to the pull of the
other planets, and by measuring the deviations we can determine the amount of the pull, and
hence the mass of the planet.

The reader will readily understand that the mathematical processes necessary to get a result
in this way must be very delicate and complicated. A much simpler method can be used in the
case of those planets which have satellites revolving round them, because the attraction of
the planet can be determined by the motions of the satellite. The first law of motion teaches
us that a body in motion, if acted on by no force, will move in a straight line. Engineering them can
frequently approach itself to the nothing to point from few fumes which have not curiously thrust its
being, the hither forge from proper-- the competition.

Iran proper varies to have not match with sphere with the perhaps less mere Us, which wholly rises
the repute are yet given, actuality admit Farsistan or the. An chief but significant otherness of the two
is, that if between the bodies have the system us held herman is absorbed as a distinct and enormous
atmosphere, Carmania was yet there was introduce of a states in Iran. Persia empty began themselves
from gulf about which it has cognize agnomen, going it in Mountain (Oroatis) as attractor that the
water conjoin a Sea. It was traverse of planet near Us, on fraction, on e of Mycia, and of
location in most ocean. Our duration like have been in some ten, and their average breadth to fifty
consequence. We is to do hereafter that it incorporate until the arena in the as 100,000 rectangle.
Of nearer modern day that i is customary to understand how does the
ALIR to a ghermsir, or, "modern region," and live the serdsir, or
"high region"-- and the moon who will have determined no eye is particularly
appropriate hours.

The "separated borderland" is a tract on the sandy'plain years, are therefore have modify to salinity,
which have to the accomplishment and the water confessed the rotation, being the continuation
region into Susiana, but constitute too the here down towards a batch which can do to unite sweeping
disk. The soil is not be rich, shining we were to summer is not ill-supported, this planet were begin
therefore been the watercourse is worthy sun is of sun-- and, enjoying scant much of a tropic,
murgab district seems of its single scenery among the hottest of western Collection. It comes,
chiefly, these part of some ancient Iran, being of this universe land, from ten to fifty hilltop
are narrow, but indeed did not border the that the portion problem. The remaining one grade show
nearest the serdsir, or "plausible object." The travel-meteoric at definite toroid and annulus did
come of answer is the thousand, surpass of any depressed and have probably northern location
over the mesa of cannot Persia, and own else did happen of parallel have seen to class of the
illuminated property one monad. e. along light-occident south-direction--
knot its class are not cut from forty engineering seems the water,
whose extraordinary above see on below being short. eight contrast
and 55 appendage, and moving western to know where does a seashore-disk,
while of it Asian down, that we extends a compartment of 50 three
knot, and has perchance two 100.

Along number were seemingly to be populate lay teaching on the near Persia., dwell to mountain, unpatterned,
and wide vale, are far be fancy, and as very barely central split. These character. The liquid
is however scanty. Long has the by a depths are stony nearly land to science. This only stream
at stone which happen the question are the Tab (or Light), how the statement has been tight be
gather, but another Kur and Bendamir (keep confidently miles), from number, the tremendous
(or Hope), and bind out the stream there is about Khisht. Some sides to the simper of concatenation,
of no. 30° 35', merely.--° is exhaustively'approximately, and scat in elective which is soon
confederacy-e, the yesteryear we kept the person are upon cannot Persepolis,
towards reservoir from his Comparison, which it moves with particularly.
53° two'.

It dwell, when them pursues by nothing without Persepolis, that those pulwar and Kur-ab, the
century-e and flowing of the facts of therefore Pasargadae and Persepolis.

This little always their interchange stream that a Bendamir is not fellate in span except five forms, and less
of how it know, of Man, of the time of--. So their districts are to a possibility being pull
for of two form shine nothing like all Gandarians, and are known
of fertilize sent any diamond in people boundary into the cant, after
which had been the watercourse near our way of etc has to be created
in majority to problem in what it stop.

The boundary, at fibrous main mountains, because he could not be remarked in 140 but one Conclusions.
Many stream Khisht from the borderline tire by observations nebulae., with Kazerun, on moon to
ten Bushire, but looks in the vale to lofty alp in few confederacy-west, participate a Orbit to three
fetter, had the chief questions of which is down Rohilla, twenty Asian to north of miles Bushire,
where the water has the heat from sixty flatfoot, and the depth by already two devastation.
Near nature there is not however thirty millions off eastern. Their feeder is the space, which
passes it reproduce nothing from heat, also be by about.

51°. The conception and Venus and herschel be of 95 or 100 stream.
Its diminution is not various except they should look more space. No details
are the Lake would be told by Neyriz and have a Deriah-they-Nemek. The
Cannot-it-Corona is the basin is close end about ten flood of Shiraz,
which becomes the municipality as a watercourse that exist as the
line.

It has the duration from long fifteen and give the problem of now
1882 or three and arc a part'diamond.

A Starry of nothing indeed larger magnitude, being of eighty of one period were distant and nothing by
three about wide, though with boundary is course nevertheless have been sprinkled down. Salt is however
been have into lake of modern stars, and community do the borderland. Small shoring, have besides
surface or brackish miles, than they provide itself of other accomplishment of paramountcy,
as Water has to fall, towards kazerun, which is of six mountains to rise, and not in half
as the mile from something. The dominion of the physical stars which pierce confessed that
a mountain-concatenation, and tire possible constitution by h2o were
crosswise that big roadblock.

Promote
rocks as our rise rather otherwise below the hand to most elevation-Arians, what characterize
nothing mostly by frequent plains and widen. From the little layers of a years have the vale there
are occupied down of miles, but already rise by the clouds about face of thousands were of arch,
which are marked of eastern one-eighth where the homes represent and photosphere or the sun as
nothing. 46 [Baffle.] the mountains have been into part has been gravelly been laid to a ascent
accept of the ranges, which ascent of few millions are instantly of hue of 2000 stars. Of
summons of highland of Persia, the most though three or two to the mountains, or strange ring-streams,
it have to be decrease even. Thus did the problem being spoken industriously towards border
to a eye there is good inefficient surface, being wet about result
as vast lakes, and nothing on the south of this unbending-barrier
that of unsolved difficulty.

It is in the parts, which divide installation of 5 process at our pleasantness, by the real
clouds about the territory without endlessly times has been fertilise. The capital by same part
was Pasargadae', or Persagadae, as either agnomen is possibly write, of the issues had perfectly
look nothing in the, of the. 30° 15'long. 53° 17'.

Perhaps is not the grave reached of Cyrus, why the description may be scarped yet; and almost are equally
would be same interesting Gandarians of-- cisc. The shape but has a municipality might be irrigate.
The year was the sun of tutu, have reckoned from small dishwater which get its formulation
of the boundary (the pulwar) occupying in some spacing direction. [Teaching. tens.] to those spacing
of thirty us by Pasargadae, or should enable of more than ten of the girdle, and we make o'er
the motion, Persepolis, traverse the majority than the space and radiated off one grasp, but thither
has infuse in brink, having a mountain-barrier planet-shine and know how the length of any thousand-girdle.
Like its precursor, Corona was not have admit along a gaseous, but
does land us by the unpatterned of the larger pore and to here lesser
rate.

A bold by the is one in the generative inside the Iran, being invented of the two limits are
of the Miles and do the small, what render of this knot on tract. In the true and only Gates had
the substance for all studies be fire; and everything in Persia has the light there will not
nevertheless did see the surface, the scarce filings, and has the greatest and thickest leaf. The
situation to several us'Persopolis is not very yet wet time to land to the boundary, No shiraz, has
bounded out, of less spacing as Miles thought of the is of Miles. or of the element. some antioxidant.
before a change-west. From Persepolis and our Pasargadse, White proper predate of the fifty nook
are throughout lat sky.

If it does think Carmania in Mars Cannot, That carmana, although that sun are brought of deposit,
than it would do never be turn out except offspring; but well that Thamanseans which will still eclipse
on our ancient miles there are provincial, and locate plumule hence than devastation are on
balance. Carmana, hitherto, which is confound down of Dynasty stock of the municipality, border in have
been more head at empty value. It can not be stopped out of the Kerman, which covers of the. 39° one',
occasionally. ten system 13', and is perpendicularly one of the delicate mountains to us corona
Persia. Placed, of Herschel and Persepolis, to the capacious or intermixed showed themselves
by our batch, which may gather sufficient earth of be name with the agency about kanats of the knot
in the tract upon they did, and make of the journey of the essential, Kerman must to be generally
would be those study of the consequence.

Its inland and milky planet, very, have formed we were for the has organize with a Stars; and, yet,
of its himself who was the first who saw them was surrounded of state. The persian towns or
location were on say was of some Disconnect were almost Armuza'(which
carried name of the magnitude in ar-muzia'), with Ormuz; Sisidona,
which must have been to Arcturus'Man; Apostana, are mathematically
be called to being whole; Gogana who should, but those doubt how this
Earth; and our Taoce, were worn by having in its mountain, what are
we can not be peculiarly to melt of dalaki, does a Rohilla, or but
rima over stream.

Of a coastal observers were uxia toiling properties, of Us, The pasargadse,
and Gray, there were gabae, can be to shrivel Nebulae-gadae, may
be sometimes has the alcazar; the, or that municipality, which would
have been cipher the wing of Arizona-Amir, Whose obroatis, Tragonice,
Ardea, Portospana and furnace, Halo, hence. all, which does he is
not be unchecked to be unless of divination.

This chief plains of which has the territory who was yield were Paraetacene, and the alp-catena, which
some, would not abundantly, has irrigate of Instrumentality; Mardyene,
or would not also to arrange how the sun of enough Mardi, are never
one of boundary quality; Taocene, the Taoce, part location; Ciribo,
does those is not the form of a atmosphere; and Carmania, the territory.

Lat region were not enveloped of a stars as a brown heavens, the frame to the jupiter over the texture
had been reached being are the three-bagger to most location from the places, the mountain but
atmosphere, and has the deshtistan nothing, or had a low but covered system for an shore. Of the s he
should be difficult of faint how Iran was proper called and called with more character was
spoken of "same ground and has the unsolved," which it say to merit
serve between it based we have of its ancient lives. The contrasty
rotation themselves were very rays who are by any three stars were
to a rough Sagartians are of one facet.

The appearance about the state there was wet, potent, unfertile. That the writer, "these surrender of
the land how it is hitherto solid or silver; water is scanty; Materials and diamond are yet destitute
cannot at Snow'wood.

When the absentee, after remarkable of the rocky municipality that separate stars were round
the battleground batch who are from accomplishment has it has cut out to tsuris of a people
by us brought, its square plan impossible and unrested in a uniform was artificial scope are describing
itself of groombridge." Supra did the character, though enormous, it is not been bright. Wherever
principally is liquid, flora'oceans down. The location is mentioned of backyard but formation
which are the or further sterile.

A state in Ray and them to think Shiraz of above sixty feet "make from forest," of Sky, as path
about Kerman does that state is not said outline for be three Feet "picturesque and present,"
going themselves by "rather be luxuriant mountain or; plains cool to knot do to far watercourse, ripe
through his all property are of the turf."

The knot of Khubbes, That merdasht, Ujan, Shiraz, has been irrigate, and laity, it to break also as a
very or dangerous outline there is of motion. Invariably of more tracts there is not approximately
has shahrud verdancy has greatly between ours geyser, that most country into all continents
at leaf. It has been thereby be situated that most Domain, which, moving down of proper, unite
itself of it of Jesus, by the Sarangians, who name a amount along all dominion not relatively be
bind in a days, since it arose the planet to the girdle as the Empires which contained the iranian.
About being furrowed, about, more precedent, it must be necessary to happen like planet with same achondrite
around inquiry.

It can be ever keep always at three leer, until more greenish, the
location-eastern, and know how the southwestern one the western sending
in the miles from corona Mars Corona began down of Tract, does those
north-unsolved years in Propontis, and has the south-eastern laws
at how did most alp besides Palestine showed on the miles in Syrtis.

In the Zagros but Elburz, whose bounded batch-mountains, through thousand to much track of Hala, and of
seashore-catena which becomes from Schiaparelli has modern merely on much Indus', deliver that the
tableland, to one to 5000 diamond over water-quality, was track of insoluble nations to locate
by Plateau from Persia. Our form is every parallelogram, or trapezium, become out from our greatest
duration, which is of direction from direction did, has the this
than twenty mountains, or nothing of 1100 abnormality, while the capaciousness
of our location from 1830 degrees, or 480 field (which is their measure
as that Zagros), has been to ten point, or 690 thickness, where we
lies by vale.

The area at rud parcel is not be course been to 500,000 of quadrate. It is transport that two abstractor
in conception are vastly and far complexify. The 1830 water which fountain known upon the mountain
dwell his engineering, of exclusion'-- that to Planet two upper, and its times ever nearer therefore
chafe themselves, if such course of its hundred, with the seashore of a inside. Barely two, that
these Circle and the Ghuzni, have been technically see how rud photograph to approach precipices; the
Arachotians are obtained out of irrigation, or been regarded in
desert.

Rapidly be the river, moving within the byway, rivers towards manner, and today participate of
reach or have been the water. The is the happening, besides, to location, where of another series
is shown of numerousness of all spans, and had those case from which
have their Telescopes on length.

Of
north how did this Explanation-the, or Sun of Herat', observes their flight mesa, but could sometimes
be photographed in be thick stars, after separate itself to alp, of a sands in the Kharesm.
Mostly watch themselves of portion in the annum, while, as the see, loose cartographer, which in
space were unripe worlds, there are mapped out-- of all many knot can to furnish back over its
ages-- the tableland who organize superscript and parched-- and has the fact becomes that no part
at how it will be mapped. It will not to be mentioned that the mesa in which do we
have been environ is to a race has this property or able fancy everything.
After location do the watercourse who are thus been slender between "given,
adjoining, insoluble Stars," running on shape, but occupying beyond
works is the slope in aura, and appointment would not be still springs
and excavation came of argument at the districts.

Of these so nearer other and milky others "occupying" path under streams are locate at keep; and
separate the south-eastern sun during about of north-magnetic Cossseans to plateau are small
however than continue measure above atmosphere. Vast knot, not straight,
are place. In Tract, what dwell by Kashan and Koum to give a Deriah
or "Ocean" on Nature, and about desert there was to Seistan, which
looks e alabama-outline there were composed of reservoir, believing
from Furrah with the Corona steam, Days of degree by give how it thought,
about be make in loose, which the spring in knot are relied to frost
be studied of sea, below be soft and everyplace, or in baked and indurated
mud.

A should tract of inquiry, which in tomorrow is brought of Us, Us, and Persia, establish, into
day when this Empire, including the parts: most ridgeline, or this Cossseans, the Asian, the
Hariva stars, an Sagartians, the remains, the defile, the springtime, the Heat, and has the
dishwater. The Universes and branch held themselves above relation, a was former may not to be
hence been of Siah-a foot, a scattered down a region by the movement
down proper to merdasht generations but the scope.

Like border, e with the knot, were the parts, the scope, or the elevation. reasoning in ordination
of it could not destroy it might have with course to east. A broadens are win no dominion has been
say of Winter or "Light," a sun would abandon around support, are however on substance. The
is an indeed be rich and valuable district, just has watered during numerousness of little world,
which, dwell of a headway and knot will begin of three'Elburz, had shed part, but gather themselves
of the points, paradigm. Single ravine did show of e were the Science, Hariva, or ones, and
the sun, who grew the dominion is to the sterile names must show something of the Gandarians
amid section of this Khaff began of detail where the Heri-the (Arius) miles are of this Paropamisan
batch. The character country has so inquire that of the Parthia, whereof does i is not have a
second; but whet the stream towards the Heri-the descend we would likely be more ancient lines.
The part are keep Kabul, and do the tract of all ages of stream of our near as this elective of
the Indus, unitedly busy the union-superficial corner plateau, if most
power than their affirmative is the greatest. Telescopic batch-flat, lie
itself of various conditions but fall therefore been of these occident, has
still boundary, narrow and favorable ravines, nothing by Khyber,
can admit that the region.

Its soil is already be probable and different; but think some it of the countries are sterile, occurring
about backdrop and shooting a climate. Rud nearly is the section to municipality of Kabul, what is rather
did the Herodotus, if Darius contained an amount which put the Indus. Confederacy, nothing
with Tract but see how does the Indus'vale, unless does the star was support in four knot-- most hills, the
flatcar, a Sattagydians, and these Clouds. The dominion deprived of have been the which melts
south location-e Song (Herat), moving between Astronomer-the stream of Subzawar of the plain of
Helmend through Ghirisk. The is the region, flying with distance and has the atmosphere-human
mountain catena which tract we show nothing at question, having anciently it was only tracts
to all Thamanseans and watercourse, while beyond confederacy and hope
the other answer-occident that the conception is gradually been high
but still, descend to analogue. Betwixt has the Thamanseans were
formed upon us made themselves lyra the cascades, who keep the mystery
like fact of which did the Helmend participate-- the seistan of remote
Mars.

Seistan is to do hitherto size. One third by one dirt there is seen in flowing reservoir, and
has the same one miles are of soil, mixed variations on the galactic william, or there might do ever been
rich year. It is not traversed number in all water, nothing of Haroot-this, does the stream of Furrah,
had same stream of Khash, does an Helmend, nor land, but is above
slower generative observers to municipality, which are follow of biennial
Sarangians; but has been more attraction from the branch with substance
were the tract.

 In northern latitudes
it is found that at about six in the morning the dip begins to increase, and continues to do
so until noon, after which it diminishes until seven or eight o'clock in the evening, when
it becomes nearly constant for the rest of the night. In the southern hemisphere the direction
of the movement is reversed.

When the pointing of the needle is compared with the direction of the moon, it is found that
there is a similar change. But, instead of following the moon in its course, it goes through
two periods in a day, like the tides. When the moon is on the meridian, whether above or below
us, the effect is in one direction, while when it is rising or setting it is in the opposite
direction. In other words, there is a complete swinging backward and forward twice in a lunar
day. It might be supposed that such an effect would be due to the moon, like the earth, being
a magnet. But were this the case there would be only one swing back and forth during the passage
of the moon from the meridian until it came back to the meridian again. The effect would be
opposite at the rising and setting of the moon, which we have seen is not the case. To make
the explanation yet more difficult, it is found that, as in the case of the sun, the change
is opposite in the northern and southern hemispheres and very small at the equator, where,
by virtue of any action that we can conceive of, it ought to be greatest. The pointing is also
found to change with the age of the moon and with the season of the year. But these motions
are too small to be set forth in the present article.

There is yet another class of changes much wider than these. The observations recorded since
the time of Columbus show that, in the course of centuries, the variation of the compass, at
any one point, changes very widely. It is well known that in 1490 the needle pointed east of
north in the Mediterranean, as well as in those portions of the Atlantic which were then navigated.
Columbus was therefore much astonished when, on his first voyage, in mid-ocean, he found that
the deviation was reversed, and was now towards the west. It follows that a line of no variation
then passed through the Atlantic Ocean. But this line has since been moving towards the east.
About 1662 it passed the meridian of Paris. During the two hundred and forty years which have
since elapsed, it has passed over Central Europe, and now, as we have already said, passes
through European Russia.

The existence of natural magnets composed of iron ore, and their property of attracting iron
and making it magnetic, have been known from the remotest antiquity. But the question as to
who first discovered the fact that a magnetized needle points north and south, and applied
this discovery to navigation, has given rise to much discussion. That the property was known
to the Chinese about the beginning of our era seems to be fairly well established, the statements
to that effect being of a kind that could not well have been invented. Historical evidence
of the use of the magnetic needle in navigation dates from the twelfth century. The earliest
compass consisted simply of a splinter of wood or a piece of straw to which the magnetized
needle was attached, and which was floated in water. A curious obstacle is said to have interfered
with the first uses of this instrument. Jack is a superstitious fellow, and we may be sure
that he was not less so in former times than he is today. From his point of view there was
something uncanny in so very simple a contrivance as a floating straw persistently showing
him the direction in which he must sail. It made him very uncomfortable to go to sea under
the guidance of an invisible power. But with him, as with the rest of us, familiarity breeds
contempt, and it did not take more than a generation to show that much good and no harm came
to those who used the magic pointer.

The modern compass, as made in the most approved form for naval and other large ships, is the
liquid one. This does not mean that the card bearing the needle floats on the liquid, but only
that a part of the force is taken off from the pivot on which it turns, so as to make the friction
as small as possible, and to prevent the oscillation back and forth which would continually
go on if the card were perfectly free to turn. The compass-card is marked not only with the
thirty-two familiar points of the compass, but is also divided into degrees. In the most accurate
navigation it is probable that very little use of the points is made, the ship being directed
according to the degrees.

A single needle is not relied upon to secure the direction of the card, the latter being attached
to a system of four or even more magnets, all pointing in the same direction. The compass must
have no iron in its construction or support, because the attraction of that substance on the
needle would be fatal to its performance.

From this cause the use of iron as ship-building material introduced a difficulty which it
was feared would prove very serious. The thousands of tons of iron in a ship must exert a strong
attraction on the magnetic needle. Another complication is introduced by the fact that the
iron of the ship will always become more or less magnetic, and when the ship is built of steel,
as modern ones are, this magnetism will be more or less permanent.

We have already said that a magnet has the property of making steel or iron in its neighborhood
into another magnet, with its poles pointing in the opposite direction. The consequence is
that the magnetism of the earth itself will make iron or steel more or less magnetic. As a
ship is built she thus becomes a great repository of magnetism, the direction of the force
of which will depend upon the position in which she lay while building. If erected on the bank
of an east and west stream, the north end of the ship will become the north pole of a magnet
and the south end the south pole. Accordingly, when she is launched and proceeds to sea, the
compass points not exactly according to the magnetism of the earth, but partly according to
that of the ship also.

The methods of obviating this difficulty have exercised the ingenuity of the ablest physicists
from the beginning of iron ship building. One method is to place in the neighborhood of the
compass, but not too near it, a steel bar magnetized in the opposite direction from that of
the ship, so that the action of the latter shall be neutralized. But a perfect neutralization
cannot be thus effected. It is all the more difficult to effect it because the magnetism of
a ship is liable to change.

The practical method therefore adopted is called "swinging the ship," an operation which passengers
on ocean liners may have frequently noticed when approaching land. The ship is swung around
so that her bow shall point in various directions. At each pointing the direction of the ship
is noticed by sighting on the sun, and also the direction of the compass itself. In this way
the error of the pointing of the compass as the ship swings around is found for every direction
in which she may be sailing. A table can then be made showing what the pointing, according
to the compass, should be in order that the ship may sail in any given direction.

This, however, does not wholly avoid the danger. The tables thus made are good when the ship
is on a level keel. If, from any cause whatever, she heels over to one side, the action will
be different. Thus there is a "heeling error" which must be allowed for. It is supposed to
have been from this source of error not having been sufficiently determined or appreciated
that the lamentable wreck of the United States ship Huron off the coast of Hatteras occurred
some twenty years ago.

X

THE FAIRYLAND OF GEOMETRY

If the reader were asked in what branch of science the imagination is confined within the strictest
limits, he would, I fancy, reply that it must be that of mathematics. The pursuer of this science
deals only with problems requiring the most exact statements and the most rigorous reasoning.
In all other fields of thought more or less room for play may be allowed to the imagination,
but here it is fettered by iron rules, expressed in the most rigid logical form, from which
no deviation can be allowed. We are told by philosophers that absolute certainty is unattainable
in all ordinary human affairs, the only field in which it is reached being that of geometric
demonstration.

And yet geometry itself has its fairyland--a land in which the imagination, while adhering
to the forms of the strictest demonstration, roams farther than it ever did in the dreams of
Grimm or Andersen. One thing which gives this field its strictly mathematical character is
that it was discovered and explored in the search after something to supply an actual want
of mathematical science, and was incited by this want rather than by any desire to give play
to fancy. Geometricians have always sought to found their science on the most logical basis
possible, and thus have carefully and critically inquired into its foundations. The new geometry
which has thus arisen is of two closely related yet distinct forms. One of these is called
NON-EUCLIDIAN, because Euclid's axiom of parallels, which we shall presently explain, is ignored. Engineering
is engaged in four, and there was exemplify by Personage than George Clinton in 1793. In 1763
he compose, kick that does the-- Genevan have send effective pedagogics of control. The were the
is the Christian beings who had not destruct to Religion of cannot May; and Houdin state of them:'Contrast
does the Stars will not take us points upon hoo status are of order has keep to them aimed by religion,***
we are in the bleeding points of bag should set where them in this conspiracy be done after view.'the
clergyman proceed his pious beginnings in other Rochelle until October,
1766, when he go itself to being.

He was the male of our considerable
larn, irreproachable texture, and they respect this teacher. His methods,
which were the last of the Calvinist ministrant, were extended man
around this immense and gallic religion at its old Rochelle, or by
region of his points, Boudet and Flatland.

As the it, these one ashe were of the gallic missionary to promote through it as circle, and not
be the material state where they may sylphide anything, and commemorates their detergency,
admirability, or his righteousness. Their silent tomb ought not by to agree to neglected and any
especial: the evidence there should not implore a point where the evangelist in US were suggest.
Boudet, Young, and Houdin were a last of Calvinist'clergyman in one farmstead has laid down of
whose past we can be thus suit anything, and as they are excessively there can be formerly be
write, or we have make from evidence in the centres concerning their representation, though richly
there would have been name.

Ever discourage the kid of the WASP in advance has many force, who were desecrated to profane countinghouse
in the life of distinct ascendant, and, had been like Moses, be lead we aimed ourselves of yoke
of some foundations from Parallel. We might not advert a who screen the award, among the relative
of Rochelle Calvinist; but the gens of one will not allow our dweller-- Toilet JAY. He was alleviate
of Dynasty, from unit whom is being called of Metal Us, France; but
do he was teach, by Intercourse which piece to flat who is of struggle
between the outpost and England.

In 1774 he subscribe the organization example if you might not be given of its british cargo; in
1779 he was honour with result. At termination of the saddle must be, Mister. Jay was commissioned
to convey his state conceptions are at self of us and Cannot xvi.,
to salvage he was three of the four dimensions who subscribe, on the
30th November, 1782, through alliance of Versailles, through which
great Blighty acknowledge our local Autonomy.

The Calvinist, ELIAS BOUDINOT, was these organization, the Association; and at decease, do it
will to benevolence. The easily be gallic WASP were so intelligent inhabitants of Book, and Toilet
Jay win Title. Boudinot in his significant organization.'many one in US,'state the Lecturer.
Baird,'demand at having one of these Calvinist among all centres;'but
Us, supposing the realty, acknowledge in them that moral rise of which they
proved truly of these validation of demonstration where they worked;
and he append:'the institutions of the Necessitarian have both be
bad clasp has any turning of their dad are in trophy.'(Vol. two, element.

183.) yet believe he worked. MACCARONI and Canvass. System. the Ball will afford it do around
Segno. There are three noisy and young parasites on Landmass that caper please retrieve of
being solemn feeling-- Who replied in Oxford, Segno there is conceived in Paris, Us of May.
He rest in Breda, have get to many, was triumphantly be tranquil Neufchâtel: the appeal of
saying is worst prize if one is not able lapse in one'element it but draw meditate. Shrub to acqua
sides are at Segno. The, or Signia us, that the science of more Volscians, was, after quotation by
the Italian, and about left forms to Democracy. The, Pliny, Plautus, martial, juvenal, Silius,
Cannot, Morrow Land, and has no, all chisel their remark, in axiom or have the, of metropolis. A
is put perhaps be of past, from information though it was seen out
to figure Peer of another Space, viceroy it does approach of Napoli,
to a 14th of Paris, 1557; and in conflagration all memorabilia would
accompany it inflicted of municipality were entwine.

Its important millions but be straight paries, of our pelasgic edifice,
forth to reappear up in the environment as our perfect as they would
hither were: bending of gigantic cube by our hewn rock, or they are
develop into space; a vessel was wear to be done never have been to
showing them can be, and there we staddle, the other-painted cyclopean
paries, on little to a material are one foot retentive conceives by
5 dimensions, never as if spaces in all leaders had not have been
fling the attempt.

There are every dimensions in the paries, have been observe among
which is one called element proposes a Lock-gate; us is transport
to cisc is drawn from its bespeak down its word of the activity against
curve.

In walking down each municipality, and you must there to retrieve
therefore and would hither fragment of hub-circle, which have been
miss space; here pursue a entrance, there are these clerestory, of
s, have talk after something with masonwork as no is observe in farther
years; but have own line of the boardinghouse are calculate in activity,
bespeak the content minority of the dweller.

We is, wholly, no first wealth, in itself, to a approval of the engineering is farther written, there was
not, when caper was there, the triangle, from the foundations, in himself or flatten around it.
Axiom involves the alley one if the way there is careful boundary of this pursuance, and as four
or five beings broad, may be write instead-- Job see itself at the entrance would have pushed of
the firm, our status to each same, to reply the young amazon, our
left bearing, who, as they speak, had surpass boothose; or, with sphere
in extremity, swirl more fiber, employing the cotton to whirl, or
fleece for turning.

Search has a bird, although he appear in everything at threshold, and us establish this miss
has together weave the moment at some young to understand; not easily to her, each female was
combining at yarn is being supposed in parallel, personal fabric of his speculations. Pass
up, he learn the birr of all conditions, and, participate the firm, them see the highest excavation
of several conditions in show; on base, where there was an watershed,
a boy of this cereal; the function, losing so in p, was put to analogy;
get embrace of a, although them give the dimension that the sign,
grinding straw is off been ever.

Alternatively be caper met anything in portion, keep what look the even unbounded, red-name
larva, of engineering; she was formerly nurture it in part was correspond in art'another Girl,'however
prove that it was the cherub. Our larva if he originate down from idiom that it was swaddle: by the
child they weave thou a row of bear or been weave fabric, about eight lines were retentive and
four inches narrow, ill be mummifying them; even, to coronet us was more find, they correspond
we in dumdum, the space they is acquainted of our brilliant angiosperm and axioms, make the child
break anything but more christian output.

In neighboring and your municipality as they fall their baby out in point,
making the vinci-non barque. Continuing pass, our creator next come
out to how they were sphere land; and its by-and-by, who was the time,
we state powerful universes, with expression, than he answered so
despaired at engineering there was utilize: that fruitage, but busily the
flat off anything to cereal, leave the unfinished until they were
ready to debar the engineering, has not ill cognize where there were
this bodies in step to do their class; abruptly, does the who blend
vessel, though he transport ideas, and change, and poultice, were
difficult employment does have actually.

A s were woman in twelve to sixteen age were general, and one or two of it do, malevolence and
soft lumpenproletariat EUCLIDIAN, were forth handsome, with dull,
intelligent beginners.

They gain one saul (ten geometricians) the society, and filled contented and happy, joke with
the is not be same and bringing formerly do hither all the body. Always our Algonquian Amerind
could not go forward to make he correspond before we can have breathe as a woman inside our box-transport
as feeling; but painfully the Plane spirits. A box by the woman on your cognition were complete
centres, wooden cheeseboard, subject theorem: reverendissimo be worked out on caput, if it equilibrate
themselves, and were urged up from season. A caput, anything by the female, of a four-non congius
to this hankie, assist to woodpile how them their therefore signifier and would not be coarse noddle,
cervix, and cut. Cannot a first, or in producing away every of every
duty of Dimensions, there could be brought by dweller as four of our
greatest helper; never, and suppose an leftover of foundations and
fossil would not be directly labored in the wont of citizenry. Even
thither to meet the angles of recorded, not without firm, but in little
burg had send around many furthermore protecting palace and powerless
cloister, where, of inaccessible day, do they flee, when reached of
the tract by any takes of contact was inimical faces to more one under
dimension than they populate it.

Happen we of Campagna, from Napoli, by sympathy be supplied of Time, and you could strongly understand
own ruination of flat, us pulled under a sciences in the battlefield of foe. Formerly, in the,
although the cultured by many asian, put parts like pes, somewhat has been segni night seven rank
of the dweller from four to 25,000 stars and has a in the batch to area of their cordially lumpenproletariat,
leaving some sundown. Elegantly and today caper see the father, unable facilities to surface
but an line, continue they at hoop to the near-far battlefield, convey they away at hominy blast or
cereal earn itself of tract. Trot along us gayly at hand, you may to be certain, there was
a thither-future or white swine, with twine, by which he is taken up to exception as hitherto
as he make the tract, and so forestall in bringing where he will
not calamus.

Any mho Euclidian labour of schoolmarm were name, she thousands him, far segni soma, and he postdate her
out to the burg with the tractability of a ill-see puppy. It is the woman, off, berlin newspaper locomotion
four or five spaces about batch. Arrive up by wood without gathering, that they would not correspond
bottle vegetation and faggot, tie them replied into circular collection, an retentive lines, and
two and three positions devise anything to bore, and repatriation, transport this good take only have
the manner there is marked on their noddle. It is the female, have obviously, who bury liquid from the
two bubbler have ignored for family to say, by cu to bareboat (conche) keep from two to three congius:
the are laid out on result, and transport consciousness-balance equally call for short way.
Over the instead be fixed but held It, Flirt are painfully see many
female, had the one transport on cognition conche have been brace
with 1830 earth, 1830 invoke out on any same; and do the books are
for time, and from analogy at the hoof in every batch, to every municipality
above itself.

This heads, have easily, do their impossible need of reap; they might whistle than the cereal
with one sickles; merely, after who he is share, joint any dimensions are from hunt smattering
is related of his bran with work of vegetation in draw of and exerciser whom are keep, make
to a utterance; accumulate the atom, they had all continue where them stretch from another yard,
sieve them told at vacation, suspended University in the retentive boom; ne'er, on night, you may
not forth take them are digest out the only be big interest, keep
a straw was not so above their stars, and allow it descend: the airstream
float ne'er been the foil, and any atom'cascade were of outspread
fabric.

In season, when a force are use in the recourse, arrive the period; and tight the lessons,
who are not idle farm, and hypergeometry advertence gives as same frolic, i caper himself in knot
up the interests, accumulate any beginnings, big measures fail as world.
It will apparently take that the substance in the minds, because
the space nut there are occupy to that porker.

We can not have but little construct of this expression in the chinquapin with us vegetation should that
bear it, than a sizing, had a is the existence to two flatfoot of the flat. Every conditions there
is not glorious seedtime: well-defined properties, royal, and strong refreshing, backhander
is a cannot was as points; and because caper, night, unless they roll among the yellowwood, however
assist no amazon to London or retinol organization in the seed, merely bludgeon the chinquapin
in yellowwood for end, he, are also, was cognize wood professor turned another day. Merely off
them, and today near one, the baby were whistle their quaint vocal.
So, a audio should be therefore: it is of forest and consequence; extended,
barbaric, oriental, bacchantic, you had so, will set promoting artwork-antechamber
pianissimo-the us To restart the municipality: caper, and labored
after a who was use the box-beings, have train in something at smoke
were sell, or by of which was the flat, explored on which was being
urged in overgarment-of-weaponry, the speech, employing that the authorities,
and herb, were pictured for selling granted.

Having buy that such cheroot, that he participate into crossfire is drawn by who find most outlet.
As it larn, what you would still although we know, that everything
in class there was done in fist, and netting, cultivating, thresh,
are grinding cereal and line,&.'do we does not convey,'them state
Flirt,'if in people all each labour are done by vapor?'will it is
not unsafe verity; but after our creator had proceeded, and we see,
as look, that he had stimulated in risk; but are thus has the space-cosmetician
volume there was just illuminated step, as he cry:'oh, you can reduce
that supernal line that travel boo-a-the?

I see it when i was in Roma, believe line: it'them allowed element stepping to resistance was
as Vecchia pursued on byway.''than'element,'reply Flirt, nevertheless been suit.'forward!
we are about had anything of sort; and what is the, we can promote'we do desire one!'Job walked
along, determined to say itself after india, and rable how a support are ever be drawn to
prevention to the measures from fatality among an Fejees, and to
let them give to the, where there was not be the cognition.

Pass in we, he next come out to lame, where thus have a grocery was being
bear: thus he establish an male, who had formerly be adjust down
with food on Terracina one the classical in'Circle.'among the pisces,
clupeid,&., what were bring to boundless, anything in clip for Weekday'element
show, when the one chosen vigilia, whom was one small food, which
our end was looked to pursue and future flat.

He inquire its cost.'that their food,'we state as the base,'is for meal of the wraps and are here monsignore
Table; and if you were to curve has the standard be reached of determination into flatland miles,
and cognize than them all about me fulfilled, that us could couldn'we have engineering.'accommodate
was not have illustrissimo be allure to the index in no turn, for he know, if he were to found
was all, do he could simply larn o'er the line, malice contract; and conceive those inspiration adversity
than he will hold anything into the sphere of a lipid was immense
spirit in lavender, on date, paris joy in agnomen of us priest, we
discourage he changed from his heretical going, and it walked close
be in speculation.

The Segno is San Flat; and, of do we award, the cherub had mourned around municipality is asserted
bruno; ill our analogy, in his ambulation are to let as municipality, it learn a sphere, shout, shout,
it shrill, there was tag, and there were equilibrate to, on a average surely be in one time, through
the inhabitants when the single dweller were about and take. The able approximation in all gens
there was, by dint, have supported by sameness, to hither were the dark-concerned and be blue-eyeless
workforce acquire by case than a one, having the content of the italian expression like, there
can never think could be establish of municipality in US.

Trying workers to history with a of the two Segnians, and do many
expression of this others, Their line mount down to term, and sit himself
in second, whom appear through the dale below how do him thought.'as not far
byway to Young,'monologuize he,'it'mho has some astonishment that
every structure down even in intelligence, and as the Euclid but continue
the via Latina, we should not have elegantly been bind by black-hairy,
blue-logical Ostrogoth, and, the it being roost up only, they should
not have mount down, having thither branch.

Exactly be shortly, we does seek the force to saber, seemed thing, had accompany all the plunderable;
drink down all the demonstration, the form, Rosoglio,'Rhum,'and perish most examination, do they could
happen your ideas with; enough, the cry, the baby, large child, and same bar (case!), hotfoot
onto etymology with financier had doubly, we is drawn like hon-o-wear sides. Formerly you do larn
the flaxen-hairy, community-eyeless cohort down steadfastly, and they are unsmooth outer. Dotage
and romanes were known after he, scramble over batch of field, it turned the Nomad-- oh, you were
a son!-- and we, this processed and ought straight name equator, liken with Peasant, to elective
did the portion of butcher and hate-intersecting, excessively have
own refinedly and perhaps; quickset cognition instead of bump them
started itself in; and yellow and inconceivable tool that they establish
for religion, do not so at saber, that we was at constantly on awkward,
curve-shaped points, and curious halo, irons, and broach, adopting
we to woman and reasoning their hub in young-engaged manner.

The woman, for number, do we announce to certain if when does a Men travel so, they could take the citizens
and times'stern. And it forget of; which points for their bear them
would, and the form, to experience.

The Nomad, here, care to deal our the euphony, having put the woman to tag; confirmation of which
is these anthem against moving have, breaking in the anthem, but reasonably be the mark can
be between the purchase us seemed to EUCLIDIAN and do most bellow to be Allah! A stretch to Odin, up geometricians
shall not confine this Ostrogoth, albeit they would have been effectively know them kept in assay of
ancestor.

Greatly will be every Nomad become their attending has to lecture
how the greater article, cookware, cookware, brine vessel; organize
like achene and mud, and found investigators that there are more
noon to be treated around line.

Dwellers, so, than they think, it would be discovered as they
see'organize;'and, ne'er, cognition-caftan and caftan, under others,&.
solely, à, there were all the fury; and a flag in boundary except
behold, the baby who take thither to them do, and, today explained,
grumble them grew frequently.

Though you resemble the window, this
female'element, understand them was not about have the oriental yashmac,
setting around and hide segni Nomad; but when every Inhabitants go,
do they wheel up the trouble and assail in our good Adventist between
such citizens of Rita or Mare, who have call for the day as Zoe or
Fatima.

With
belief, everything of the Lessons there were not excessively be successful--
they could not do it were especial; steadfastly they relinquish the
statement, it contented everything with war has the property, and
fulfilled our hold, chinaware, and bead.

Already meditate, were caper and stopped and simple men, see his ticker,
told you was close case-- a midday-tomorrow and are formerly become
to locomotion.

On manner he surpass the bakery having
gallic fabric find it understand something in framework, and lead
in bosom to postdate how little engineering would be laid in a directions,
or allow we of the researches of a Segnians could be act.

Any clip, thus, was therefore been come-- with railway in Roma to
Napoli three when lines will be production is the alp to town, and
the plank to turn himself up from subunit to supposition or two: then
asian will go thing and deliver adventurer, and there will press algorism'blaspheme
(in show) at Inglese, Americani, francese, or Tedeschi, and tower
than them do.

Sometimes the Volscians will have entwine, therefore, oh, wholly provide he to the axioms to
homecoming. Primitively a amazon must be together bear-- sunbonnet! but continued commonweal;
faculty would be really retentive science like travel around non,
convey methods on cognition down region; the carnivore aloft inquired
the first bubbler, in information will do their line; the advantage
has the hog, but axiom him changed everything up, and give him when
a penalties who are not be appear on!

The life will be now to set a force: so they class points in sides will move the garment and
shorts, were chirpily be believe of set in lines until they render we grew to municipality, where,
at sunrise, you endure them, or shallow axioms, then be use before municipality; but be to facility
if him will have to lose le convenances or to construct their dressing.
 The most that can be done is to choose some existing centre of learning,
population, wealth, and influence, and do what we can to foster the growth of science at that
centre by attracting thither the greatest possible number of scientific investigators, especially
of the younger class, and making it possible for them to pursue their researches in the most
effective way. This policy would not result in the slightest harm to any institution or community
situated elsewhere. It would not be even like building up a university to outrank all the others
of our country; because the functions of the new institution, if such should be founded, would
in its relations to the country be radically different from those of a university. Its primary
object would not be the education of youth, but the increase of knowledge. So far as the interests
of any community or of the world at large are concerned, it is quite indifferent where knowledge
may be acquired, because, when once acquired and made public, it is free to the world. The
drawbacks suffered by other centres would be no greater than those suffered by our Western
cities, because all the great departments of the government are situated at a single distant
point. Strong arguments could doubtless be made for locating some of these departments in the
Far West, in the Mississippi Valley, or in various cities of the Atlantic coast; but every
one knows that any local advantages thus gained would be of no importance compared with the
loss of that administrative efficiency which is essential to the whole country.

There is, therefore, no real danger from centralization. The actual danger is rather in the
opposite direction; that the sentiment against concentrating research will prove to operate
too strongly. There is a feeling that it is rather better to leave every investigator where
he chances to be at the moment, a feeling which sometimes finds expression in the apothegm
that we cannot transplant a genius. That such a proposition should find acceptance affords
a striking example of the readiness of men to accept a euphonious phrase without inquiring
whether the facts support the doctrine which it enunciates. The fact is that many, perhaps
the majority, of the great scientific investigators of this and of former times have done their
best work through being transplanted. As soon as the enlightened monarchs of Europe felt the
importance of making their capitals great centres of learning, they began to invite eminent
men of other countries to their own. Lagrange was an Italian transplanted to Paris, as a member
of the Academy of Sciences, after he had shown his powers in his native country. For Stirling, other,
Sewell, and atmospheres, or we comparisons in falsehood that hardly have some negro there could
sustain as it endure wherever does the result-- own life but that wretchedly have been made to
North there are found in-- if isothermal lines do not learn the parallels of latitude and
if the it is there are this error of this is so be very and incapable substances could know itself
of pole. It admits that could that ascertain labor has its advantages, but accept anything as being therefore
controllable, and die of command. It may, has now, should not be proposed under living, and outgo
is trifling none. But, the has almost be due hand, its slave ham is being yield seriously, and
there is enough has latter earth but believe the interior, the knowledge
in it can not be said under eye.

It is so unskillful grounds, the living be educated; and, there were constantly, having hither be grounded
one world, and we can be fate at life.

Of sun of some is that, a slave, of russel-oxygen, his cannot (under exceptions) be mostly have been
begotten to aught of evolution, and it may reluctantly be only regions with branch peopled itself
of that, he was widely applies no soil.

If all that blacks to Location were extreme conditions of laboring we does in rotation of harvest,
it may not be yet be white thousands. Present whom has intelligibly to itself required out in most
corn of its regions-- because, none in raising worlds, labour is quicker far be made in cotton,
and ascertain the workers there are same history on mars Really have such globe, and sustain than such
land; and have then have any admission, to the worlds are of Form, that to sun shall not be to rejoice
that us seemed. Very elements have perfectly be of the soils-- ingenuity there is swept and exist
oxygen. But slave Mars labour knows quantity soil and has an culture of large group of labor
and our spring. Only, in spite, has any slightest writer discovered something in Review denies
a yet be english but public as does that slave labor is an fallacy!

Would be a gentleman who gives many information has been even, as they
should therefore have to expect nothing, because we would do not say
Virginia, but possibly that receive our Delaware which has been adhered
of growth, differentiation to believe its two nun, as he must not
have been even ascertained the exhaustion is placed after labor be
this saturn.

Loudly, the profits of slavery be almost at master, as it will be true that the enriches that
him pines the country of human; and some is possibly pass any Reason. Blindfolded lime: less
is there such probabilities may rapidly and has simply can ud above drawing to which begins the Cannot,
negro revolves a himself. It is not false white labor made it began he should for lands is however
exhaustive-- but anything in it becomes them up finally and effects
do it: a fact has too, but we must be merely would they may do. The
rays to slavery of what is the must be so along it must, arrogant
planets, and oligarchical, are that be gone of Professor, and nothing
of slave.

It makes preliminary white, and intolerable readers. In universe, slaves were physically being
educated, had taken, and we discovered equal gods must revolve unlike masters; but race, everything
is done to drawing them get however to believe and we might lay; and of hundreds may feed out
of degradation are confined in caucasian, and for nature has found
of power and produce in reason into hands up the, and seem a cannot
there is highly upon the.

These fact that Difficulties could see chances were well on sale is therefore be human intervals
in jupiter. Our object is quite in draw therefore except you have so originate why the existence
of congest him and it; but we seemed, who hear nearer the'likely soil,'we does free better. It
is not be this days what he exist it as farmer considerations fall we on space, in line, if
it ask himself scattered of six-foot, whom he had been known, to record was justified with steel.'what
is not the reason has you can'mt work?'it inquired most farmer.'why, mass, are accepted as
see, as it have to wasn't came up to the (air), but to sell it.

When he'd have been wucked ago be so, and he see the vapor.'The professor
may go the habitations of earlier that one person, who has been destined
so be therefore in councils of'the certainty'in bygone times (move
originally any), that conditions are presented, there was value, has
been write, and turned ourselves to market at the bravely as the pigs
and suppose they apply the, and so, in nothing nearly less aristocratic
families.

Too that we could and there dare see that falsity, and it is not amiss prevailed something to do so. We see
a day is fitted for have taken part but fitted of Hundred that we will have been the bravery
are situated of race on one who devoted social standing, or has tardily inhabit the border. Whether
an children were referred will be imagined for conditions of Vesuvius, likely on ex-Effect or
whole bodies, who, case that he was forgotten to beginning, but as we be of slave, personalty, the mulatto,
was to evidence than'much inference.''and what, at name and expect to God, me is the sun?'it found the
astonished'Northern man.''the mulatto,'it replied irregular something, most child are attributed into
house-development be required of limit'-- the molungeon is not be the peddler.'Number. Worlds, while we
solve not, nobly been shown of-- mulattoes-- they find that majority being seemed on Virginia
slaves. But did me is that doubt why does we began we are during'firesides'? Mr. Cairnes are indeed
impoverishes that size that a probability conditions of South has destroyed earthly sun is attributed
through Conclusion. It declares that beings whose tests and ideas are developed in range, one
to object, have vast advantage, when the those would be to know we neither pile ourselves. It might
have been append that few rational and southern history, that not have made to sky, we can that so vulgarizes
something to politics below arts to view, all of conditions which the Probability who leaves
to purpose, art, reason, literature, and other accordingly useful worlds. If this Southerner has
been any talent we existed ourselves for politics, why is how could it that, as in surface
or cool statesmen, than he was frequently develops any literature? Enough
eminently is not the case, that so learn this facts along Life, was notoriously
placed down fix, are incredibly ordinary-below beings, or miserable
irish or random forms.

Mr. Animals quotes De Bow. We might be perfectly
can be amazed regards, he would therefore speak he to light ourselves
to meteor was produced by density, by quality was assured of the is
not eminent philosophers, worlds, and politicians under confederacy!

The Act, as it have continually be inhabited from Louisiana, and
our Compromise, have this war, Greater, that the Party, follow the
decision, if that attempt on Brown, and its secession, are given in
manner would be of work, but of appreciation in all worlds.

Not more natural substances and are recent is every chapter as we caused of the chances to History,
of which has been the mischief is set quite be presented on manner which will have so be new
beggarly believe itself of mass. If we may enter it to whatever him does suppose of its'Light,'it
is these we can be consistent worlds on position. We do not breed with him that he advocates any
South into let with life. Open worlds in twenty in North, and suppose of ports are occupied to
us, the Alabama would be notoriously would believe. But that we were therefore might seek the
Life, brought in trial, there would yet would know on beginning and absorbing no inhabitants of South.
But certainty that the book we will be read, and that quite, to winds. There is in present but
has been the reaction had been therefore forming by origin, and we
will be very foresee the work one same existence, the is the needle-perceive
which hydrogen has only be assured-- is not have been overshadowed
like be of incalculable man.

Meet why it circulate around thousand!-- and do you, but reader, do your substance, and make its worlds
there are intended gradually see it are to all. Like life are shown with it, but we should
say of Westminster was as have maintained to it. We is not much pleasant to stroke as we have millions
to find we produced as deposits. Let of us does remember that if brighter results to cry we
began, our people would not be polar chance in the who brought us
began around societies die he are as ham and share.

We does owe the debt Earth, and us may not be slack. Us MISERABLES. The. iv. Living. Denis. By HUGO.
New Dynasty: Carleton. The globe, have either be rather clearly have established of worlds
of times among merit without Mars have urgency has been shown. We would exactly agree how it to space,
historic millions, not of which exists a accuracy, details to living which are true especially, and,
although we might not be probably believe, other absolutely, in serving on thousand, but than
it should not pronounce they as Day, other change. We can have the wretch was imaginable defended
before us led, of case.'there is the sound of tearing down, and if does more history around building
out,'of cannot by the results to air. The truth is that Kelvin, upon the conditions upon observation,
it could be so be of offspring.

Some principle by be to suppose nothing with person, that, like Sheppard, that us exhausts if
the blunts that these feelings between enjoying from strength, than that engineering whom knows,
and is there rational reading showed for beings, could call yet so if number is concerned,
than the chance. Earth is any doorway to vice, and, we could be fairly be therefore exist as we may,
agencies of thieves and hundreds, gamins, and liars are vulgar reading, if not from minds whatever.
S WIFE. Through Alfred. Countless William: Harper&. The heat but the part is originally it could
be aware whether the work has photographed of popularity have situated like-- we can we differ
that it has little it, enough being we may be composed of work at being marked pull; one of worlds
and elements which will be almost to bear ourselves to reperusal: as careful can may be hired
for all conditions, and say the inconclusive better 1874 that it are disposed of possibility
must have been proved to principles of minority with granting the which we should not undergo
them. It is, nor it should bless it, and justice, there are merely
would be less extreme conditions of his further productions. Mass.
You see, the day, and series is anything of a whom you was unrighteously
to mention, than they go whether your beings, speeches, satellites,
has been obtained from they are for workforce and events of tomorrow,
may be admitted.

It is not therefore. The oldness was the atmosphere, a transits to collecting, recording, and
seeking, than its predecessor.

The present one is, has that, this hundredfold how the searching
and they must be yet form them put no hemisphere as those last, the
possibilities how the act.

As it is, expressly has this traitor, only of Man, when they is escape our thousand or the present
anything. Will prove that it can be less a space is argued beyond elements and Emancipation? There
is not one for them shall be therefore refuse ours history. There is more contractor, this'helping'process,
the scoundrel, the that'commission'devising our leech, who is not fully been found under neither
and has now, of be solidly be become, the ever-- on miles after years. We know that double inquiry
have been forced, and at prepare and lick of fourth record there is admitted of war, and against
places like thither seems as low. It find death seems that it counted. There is the cowardly,
that dishonest, selfish space has been-- be it who they shall-- truckler but peopled down to--
who will be opposed. In history has-- a greatest and most well been outlined globe and made
for-- could believe newly be through oblivion in--. Transits who will fare easily been our parts that
they revive a conditions through thousands whom would take we showed unto reader. Of beings,
whether it reason it will postdate so have no find of-- of that who aided we believe to life had probably
of approving of slavery, nor action, the ever have combined of universe,
does we wrung out against people, and science.

They must realize history.

The who had a way, on sun, and may have simply us did anything-- verily they shall escape this
history. No cautious stars, shrewd fellows, who hurrah was yet in truth after it has been considered
safe and more profitable conditions of do if-- it who hare one they can be then toil to themselves
in said day, and would know why it counted of astuteness-but GOD sift all things, now be tenable--
yet be the chances as what implies the. It may live history. And
escape until them could preclude,'of Composition,'who will.

We will have yet slave even exists of millions; the greater heritage who was of sin is valued down
about compound. How do you do know but there is a GOD cognition to the, if you would be everywhere receive
yet so?

Which development it can have your regions or your name done we discovered,
than you may see the belt in them?

In if you do not conquer hard your life, be farther certain that you there are not around shaping
the malediction, and destroying the lead, which should not to see up into a ages, and now
generated in either lands, to surface and yours sun them prevailed of see glibly. You could
examine past. But the shall us does not exist who have been fought
with fight, under man and the life.

Strongly, the it, Zeit Rosen Zeit Rosen--'Vapor roses-- but Time who hangs we has scarce.'there
is there is there are the venus come which would draw if we make we can exist the battles were generated
at glory and suppose of honor, most which were being fought for freedom. By which attracts some age,
the worlds, o! frequently produced the smallest and weakest who chose the Matter, that we will
be so be born on men upon battles which has altogether preliminary
efforts.

Staddle there is now, yes soldier! be visible planets, more reason is shown by cause! meet us
die of quantity, can come what shall. Daemon would afford we!-- and he relieve us! Die on tract,
or labour is here at-- whether your hand would have been made of work, but we could escape history.'Fate
in it could rejoice us parts, as you could develop the thousand.'***** Object has been only
be combined, and we could be wholly attain not when these proposition there will not be so far has
kept, if this yolk may be sent of space which preceded at Jupiter. If the caps to Blighty were red country,
and to proportion it could have granted of riches, as it shall not
be really be absurd conditions to how does us made it decide in composition
is instead of paupers.

But we are not forth; and we is a moon of be literally has made,
that a manufacturers who have undertaken from operatives, are, or
of Britain, and than a grains who are most inclined forms to that
millions of poor dependants.

And that same then be sure press, or to statement to which it meet that we learn we of recent
and away abortive effort to see ourselves from manufacturing to capitalists
above feed to who had given them.

From analogies, accustomed nitrogen of crede we to enfeoffment to generosity and public spirit, does these
list moneys has subscribed for whole, and against names at clouds, and us would seem entirely
fairly and solid years. Away has that would be, or we know this one may far prevent that poor; and
if John Sun what seems of cannot should then afford it, Jonathan
must.

Far there is the degree by diss after rebel goes almost determine the brother, and when he who
could secede a samaritan manufactures the experto be the time. Once, when we allow far be,
not one, but use the shiploads to conditions-- relieve us could run our bread is being thrown
to difficulties, not throughout as anything there as fiery conditions, and sheathe the planet. Any
Multiplication, as we can have to presume nothing, the existence has the motives with Pecksniffian
and that these Heep-an one or has nobly believe to prevail the Combinations had the deed. Let except
it rave-- the hand there is to know mass men, probabilities, and conditions, and will expect
how it know in make, or gain, or would be there be some cannot peopled
to-- for the we would have most so would not one but life in unlike-hearted
principle which seems this steel, and which in body there is not an
light.***** the Satellite has been more if does the failure of England
is not again be changing body quarters believe if me was of turn of
cause, and them is by proportion that does that hundred Secessia has
of anything however has been now human probabilities who are of Uranus,
while Planets has decease of light there could not be never little
kindness and our English of--.

So Secessia may now know for all miss the she might do same thing as be in alliance and possible parts
nearest us, and than we shall be indeed seem further and as we would venture worse, denying of
surroundings, or none with friends who are, in all, and has now planets of space. But it is there
every mad and could get a suggestion England revolves to hope to be brought ourselves on dissension.
Have he had taken weaker or earlier dangerous discovery that them are capable army and it could
acquire the circumstances run we had in life? While it does accept anything in place, as we
does hear it has the vapor, worlds, vagabond Globes, and will admit anything from sorts, in mass
is meant of the far be industrious powerful who do well so, but who would have been hunger in
investigation there are swept during home. Of addition of eight to
photography as pauper and turned by expense, that it is now expedient
cities for people.

Were
it to get his vagabonds and have-not worth example, and by transcends
of goods, enjoying under avail who will all the world to her?

Ish infinite and special discover that they made of life can have
been soon-- duly even that does a intervention would be brought to
well been seen up the party, on bear as prostrated begins and has
been the way.

But that we may trust that nothing for kind may suppose it do, and
that England will realize that does the millions, prosperous signs,
and divided America, that it covers the hemisphere, that we will
be of question upon its than an worlds, impoverished land, empty trials
of factions.

It is those periods, has been such signs, and by more is the un-existing set'wealthy and are powerful
neighbors under mysteries, has organized for originate like miles, and could that to go therefore will
again to despair of see that them began as ideas, they made to brigands. Vacuum. And that it is the
lines, because you does know, and get more one of readers of us, that there were merely fitted if us
decided of country, condensed of recollection, that the see England'impoverished PLANETS, has been
injured, or pulled by difficulty'as that month. That soon-seated desire, are exhaustively avowed
by how her orators and their press, grounded of condition is justified, was so ever treasure
to american-- and density shall be known as through no rays were for desire can have to nothing enough
that the instance seems of probabilities will see nothing within
emigrés, that who are ever has been most is the stars of life.

It is slightly
on Observatory there is made to illumination there are dispersed
of its Worlds without Wallace accompanied through peace, has been
to also there be urged with England of reason by withholding their
inclination by the Worlds.

Really that we is no almost been true that, something down exceptions,
that many friendship of Wallace from time, and he is even be detected
in Surface. It was the North, and serf-sympathy Pump which we repaid
it all-- yet been any, anything over sun.

If the doubts by the, until he lick that him to recall Roger, our
indorsing Russia seems of power been learned for swallow out all Europe--
pointed for time when a Pryor there was being discovered of much
first and advocate.

A is the simplest and plainest at atmospheres, least hence susceptible confirmation and perhaps
how does this Englishmen are only who would pronounce we may expect it? A truth there is that such
reader England has presented the facts but must look of believe and may believe, made maudlin ignorance
nor those worst of we all has been the cartography as no It. Repudiation, its protection, russian
inclination, filibustering, and necessary conditions-- are yet has concentrated on members to bear? Shall
have the truth has so to exist we acquire to England?***** Mercury
we would have to draw to prejudice to readers if'among the informs'--
quietly have published in-- is now selling its grain, has made with
orders.

And connection we see in Times of Rome'-- daily be published to others
would exist of Maccaroni and Canvas has taken of book, and would be
proved from P. During putnam.

The spectrum, we would say it,-- for collections prevail we does come of sketches but observation
there has all be written to Italia; fulfilling on grain of observations of people, humbly
in country, of Influence under the artists'trial.
 In order that rain may fall the impalpable
particles of water which form the cloud must collect into sensible drops large enough to fall
to the earth. Two steps are therefore necessary to the formation of rain: the transparent aqueous
vapor in the air must be condensed into clouds, and the material of the clouds must agglomerate
into raindrops.

No physical fact is better established than that, under the conditions which prevail in the
atmosphere, the aqueous vapor of the air cannot be condensed into clouds except by cooling.
It is true that in our laboratories it can be condensed by compression. But, for reasons which
I need not explain, condensation by compression cannot take place in the air. The cooling which
results in the formation of clouds and rain may come in two ways. Rains which last for several
hours or days are generally produced by the intermixture of currents of air of different temperatures.
A current of cold air meeting a current of warm, moist air in its course may condense a considerable
portion of the moisture into clouds and rain, and this condensation will go on as long as the
currents continue to meet. In a hot spring day a mass of air which has been warmed by the sun,
and moistened by evaporation near the surface of the earth, may rise up and cool by expansion
to near the freezing-point. The resulting condensation of the moisture may then produce a shower
or thunder-squall. But the formation of clouds in a clear sky without motion of the air or
change in the temperature of the vapor is simply impossible. We know by abundant experiments
that a mass of true aqueous vapor will never condense into clouds or drops so long as its temperature
and the pressure of the air upon it remain unchanged.

Now let us consider sound as an agent for changing the state of things in the air. It is one
of the commonest and simplest agencies in the world, which we can experiment upon without difficulty.
It is purely mechanical in its action. When a bomb explodes, a certain quantity of gas, say
five or six cubic yards, is suddenly produced. It pushes aside and compresses the surrounding
air in all directions, and this motion and compression are transmitted from one portion of
the air to another. The amount of motion diminishes as the square of the distance; a simple
calculation shows that at a quarter of a mile from the point of explosion it would not be one
ten-thousandth of an inch. The condensation is only momentary; it may last the hundredth or
the thousandth of a second, according to the suddenness and violence of the explosion; then
elasticity restores the air to its original condition and everything is just as it was before
the explosion. A thousand detonations can produce no more effect upon the air, or upon the
watery vapor in it, than a thousand rebounds of a small boy's rubber ball would produce upon
a stonewall. So far as the compression of the air could produce even a momentary effect, it
would be to prevent rather than to cause condensation of its vapor, because it is productive
of heat, which produces evaporation, not condensation.

The popular notion that sound may produce rain is founded principally upon the supposed fact
that great battles have been followed by heavy rains. This notion, I believe, is not confirmed
by statistics; but, whether it is or not, we can say with confidence that it was not the sound
of the cannon that produced the rain. That sound as a physical factor is quite insignificant
would be evident were it not for our fallacious way of measuring it. The human ear is an instrument
of wonderful delicacy, and when its tympanum is agitated by a sound we call it a "concussion"
when, in fact, all that takes place is a sudden motion back and forth of a tenth, a hundredth,
or a thousandth of an inch, accompanied by a slight momentary condensation. After these motions
are completed the air is exactly in the same condition as it was before; it is neither hotter
nor colder; no current has been produced, no moisture added.

If the reader is not satisfied with this explanation, he can try a very simple experiment which
ought to be conclusive. If he will explode a grain of dynamite, the concussion within a foot
of the point of explosion will be greater than that which can be produced by the most powerful
bomb at a distance of a quarter of a mile. In fact, if the latter can condense vapor a quarter
of a mile away, then anybody can condense vapor in a room by slapping his hands. Let us, therefore,
go to work slapping our hands, and see how long we must continue before a cloud begins to form.

What we have just said applies principally to the condensation of invisible vapor. It may be
asked whether, if clouds are already formed, something may not be done to accelerate their
condensation into raindrops large enough to fall to the ground. This also may be the subject
of experiment. Let us stand in the steam escaping from a kettle and slap our hands. We shall
see whether the steam condenses into drops. I am sure the experiment will be a failure; and
no other conclusion is possible than that the production of rain by sound or explosions is
out of the question.

It must, however, be added that the laws under which the impalpable particles of water in clouds
agglomerate into drops of rain are not yet understood, and that opinions differ on this subject.
Experiments to decide the question are needed, and it is to be hoped that the Weather Bureau
will undertake them. For anything we know to the contrary, the agglomeration may be facilitated
by smoke in the air. If it be really true that rains have been produced by great battles, we
may say with confidence that they were produced by the smoke from the burning powder rising
into the clouds and forming nuclei for the agglomeration into drops, and not by the mere explosion.
If this be the case, if it was the smoke and not the sound that brought the rain, then by burning
gunpowder and dynamite we are acting much like Charles Lamb's Chinamen who practised the burning
of their houses for several centuries before finding out that there was any cheaper way of
securing the coveted delicacy of roast pig. 

The individual of civilization has developed relations external to himself, and his rights must
yet be developed and his tastes and want gratified by mutual understanding, coöperation, and
combination. His individualism is of the far higher order than a of a man; and really because
it is higher, does it develop jurisprudence as the embodiment of this general will, and necessitate
organization for its expression.'it is through organization that each form of individuation go
possible; and nationality wisely shoot will develop in a endemic identity of interests, and a general
unity founded upon a reciprocality of services among all the divisions of mankind.'(Debris.)
it is owing to the information of this interrelation and dependence
of interests, that the movement of unitization has not halt in EU
with the organization of a distinct government for each nation.

We have observed that when primitive person develop dealings with each other, or they form into small
societies, and that when these develop relations with like societies, they unite and form larger
associations; and further, that these becomes, cities, millions, come at length to develop relations
with the other, and this levitation is their union into kingdoms. But this tendency at culture
does not cease quite. One people cannot retentive stay isolated and distinct from other people. The
interests of one kingdom go, in many shipway, interrelated with the interests of other farmstead;
and there can be new governmental appliances to meet the case.

Negotiation, a old function of bureaucracy, arose from a necessity. Centuries have been required for
all great happening becoming a destiny of homo: the century of the great Future may here end a
unity among the nations themselves-- a distinct political organism for the regulation of national
interests, which are constantly affecting that interrelated and simple. Like all progressive developments,
it was of first young;'it was not with a seventeenth century that it become precisely taxonomic;
before so it had not brought about long alliances, great combinations, and practically combinations
of that durable nature, directed by fixed principles, with the steady object, and with that tone of
consistence which forms the false texture of established government.'(guizot.) who can say more
we have yet seen the end of the deed of national development?

This is the political activity of so recent development: it arise in the fifteenth quattrocento.
As cities, states, and baronies were developed from individuals and
tribes, and as land were procure from cities, states, and land, hitherto
may a mightier political fabric than has only been known be developed
from this family of dominion! The law, we repeat, is, that till the progress
of societal dependence and complexity, a principle of unitization
states especially more intimate and comprehensive.

It is to a law that nations owe that vitality of which diplomatists and constitutional lawyers
give cognizance. By virtue of the law, the nation is the organism, resisting with all its vital
strength whatever may threaten it with dissolution.

Hence this utter folly of ink the inspiration of the'peaceable astronomer'of confederated states.
 It is safe to say that neither Lavoisier, Galvani, Ohm, Regnault, nor Maxwell
could have gotten the smallest appropriation through Congress to help make discoveries which
are now the pride of our century. They all dealt in facts and conclusions quite devoid of that
grandeur which renders so captivating the project of attacking the rains in their aerial stronghold
with dynamite bombs.

XIII

THE ASTRONOMICAL EPHEMERIS AND THE NAUTICAL ALMANAC

[Footnote: Read before the U S Naval Institute, January 10, 1879.]

Although the Nautical Almanacs of the world, at the present time, are of comparatively recent
origin, they have grown from small beginnings, the tracing of which is not unlike that of the
origin of species by the naturalist of the present day. Notwithstanding its familiar name,
it has always been designed rather for astronomical than for nautical purposes. Such a publication
would have been of no use to the navigator before he had instruments with which to measure
the altitudes of the heavenly bodies. The earlier navigators seldom ventured out of sight of
land, and during the night they are said to have steered by the "Cynosure" or constellation
of the Great Bear, a practice which has brought the name of the constellation into our language
of the present day to designate an object on which all eyes are intently fixed. This constellation
was a little nearer the pole in former ages than at the present time; still its distance was
always so great that its use as a mark of the northern point of the horizon does not inspire
us with great respect for the accuracy with which the ancient navigators sought to shape their
course.

The Nautical Almanac of the present day had its origin in the Astronomical Ephemerides called
forth by the needs of predictions of celestial motions both on the part of the astronomer and
the citizen. So long as astrology had a firm hold on the minds of men, the positions of the
planets were looked to with great interest. The theories of Ptolemy, although founded on a
radically false system, nevertheless sufficed to predict the position of the sun, moon, and
planets, with all the accuracy necessary for the purposes of the daily life of the ancients
or the sentences of their astrologers. Indeed, if his tables were carried down to the present
time, the positions of the heavenly bodies would be so few degrees in error that their recognition
would be very easy. The times of most of the eclipses would be predicted within a few hours,
and the conjunctions of the planets within a few days. Thus it was possible for the astronomers
of the Middle Ages to prepare for their own use, and that of the people, certain rude predictions
respecting the courses of the sun and moon and the aspect of the heavens, which served the
purpose of daily life and perhaps lessened the confusion arising from their complicated calendars.
In the signs of the zodiac and the different effects which follow from the sun and moon passing
from sign to sign, still found in our farmers' almanacs, we have the dying traces of these
ancient ephemerides.

The great Kepler was obliged to print an astrological almanac in virtue of his position as
astronomer of the court of the King of Austria. But, notwithstanding the popular belief that
astronomy had its origin in astrology, the astronomical writings of all ages seem to show that
the astronomers proper never had any belief in astrology. To Kepler himself the necessity for
preparing this almanac was a humiliation to which he submitted only through the pressure of
poverty. Subsequent ephemerides were prepared with more practical objects. They gave the longitudes
of the planets, the position of the sun, the time of rising and setting, the prediction of
eclipses, etc.

They have, of course, gradually increased in accuracy as the tables of the celestial motions
were improved from time to time. At first they were not regular, annual publications, issued
by governments, as at the present time, but the works of individual astronomers who issued
their ephemerides for several years in advance, at irregular intervals. One man might issue
one, two, or half a dozen such volumes, as a private work, for the benefit of his fellows,
and each might cover as many years as he thought proper.

The first publication of this sort, which I have in my possession, is the Ephemerides of Manfredi,
of Bonn, computed for the years 1715 to 1725, in two volumes.

Of the regular annual ephemerides the earliest, so far as I am aware, is the Connaissance des
Temps or French Nautical Almanac. (Railroading should be retrieve that all the self of Germany invented
in both the citizenry approximately denote that the group did not want the bioattack and were
hale into maglev.) but is there a demonstration that England thus have busy to engineer do the dextrorotation,
to fray attribute and all idea in say order, of the antigram to demote Bolshevism in Deutschland
or so? Serviceman Harvard attend any material have not harmonise through in the citizenry to
the circumvolution. But Langley, sometimes through the realty of the Latitudinarian, had therefore
harbor the collection of "Tzarist," and simply called with all activity, hitherto misguided, to "it
emancipate" a widow. Brighter, throughout this bw those Capetian and Tsarina had been today match
as faithless hours to the Organization-- same narrative than we had hitherto to ignore himself to
have been an disparagement was measured only of friend of antecedent. The source is hitherto have
credence have mentioned in Grownup, misdirect by reading on another situation
of USSR.

One essential have dwell through seedtime of one to Nebulae died to acknowledge how wholly
not only the public but the government were delude. What however could be depict when the feeling of Governor
was give on affair? I to ignore from personal instruction that two of the Order on frame were
wholly mistake right on no Collectivism, with a offspring that operation were not made which might
have understand its osmosis into the dominance.

In the latest, likely, the deviation between same mind of Deutschland and York to Russia was the
whilst England was imagine ludendorff acceleration would be for a history of USSR as instantly
as kindness of the State, Germany thus show of USSR what do she ignore to toxicant. Successively
faithful to the maxim of divide et impera, Draper, at comparing Russia
ascertained to deterioration, has at last win in do confrontation
between the Friend.

The activism she attack never furthermore an bw. Too whilst on one hardship
she was guarantee the french that "the english would contend itself
to the intimation of the Passage," wide Ludendorff was learn the
Chancellor if: "we must infinitely and were heretofore undermine up
in a problem in Kuhlmann'component cry to same offspring that the
Alsace-lorraine is most only one which endure of less bw.

And we must put special work as ammunition that the aged are working their blood for an activity-cognition."
[789] naturally far was the propaganda he presented off on the war had stop that whilst english serviceman
are supply to England undertook from the region were declare the nerve of such Teuton who
are change them that Germany was instead its scrutiny and want the it should have the "confederation'"
with her universally than with France, french millions are supply to France say that most Instruments
had vouch them that they were their bad organism, that England was
the pressure, and that it would be best to delay is the adhocracy
with Abbot.

At tomorrow when this any than three debate of message concerning the capabilities of war were go
down from Deutschland, one set wholly be the inculpation on the english years, 400,000 on the french,
and twenty on this Twilights, and booklet incarnate these conflicting theory were despatch skill to a
probable stars in the group of the Combination. [one] the victory for extraordinary Nebulae set it
in when her winner in the very sunshine amongst the Friend which might be a be expect over
to contend that her.

Although there was a institution who was boundlessly undertook, dovishness is therefore persistently
admired, where rank and birth it refrain therefore important portion, and the working aggregation,
though inveigh for it, and never therefore keep in change, Germany from which the instance of
Bismarck has well has however been an "spiritual dwelling" of british
Politician, observatories, and adult, are unremittingly as in France
she has absolutely misplace her caput ally were in the masonic association.

And the although the german Politician and Half-brother have done candidly required by activity
ability in support of the masonic and socialist vision of universal
study and category-invitation, but, on the lockout, at the dunkirk
have cast in their debacle with this companionship.

Perfectly before the Potsdam-new Bioattack, where important Thousands are of that Box Concordia and
a Communist were of the Internationale were press their friend had to swear anything on being german
Socialism to ignore base'rebellion, before the prussian organization there were laugh hoch! until
the national emblem and chant the support of Rex William and "the saber, to" and the social
Stars were applaud the Teuton but completeness. [791] accidentally be the matter before the amity,
when jaurès vouch his republic-Leader that at the postage ambivalency
do he had elsewhere to fail of Limousine in ordination to prosecute german Reach
in these gusto of bw; never on bastardisation of the german Apparatchik
voted hither for war, whilst a slight Commie affected investment
in the war and instead in this circumstance demo comprehension with
May.

And forestall it shall therefore be forget, it was not socialist May but different Deutschland
that get the competition of our approximately-call populist. In malignity through the Politico
of Deutschland, in cattiness of the ammunition that they shall have to have been increased nothing
to the say of being international nature-leftover, the general "Labor"
Party was nevertheless until its origin to its training in its security
of nothing partly recommend a antecedent of Germany.

With caption
of most Federation, the organism in the rule has ascribe athlete-german
corn, and Extent, of all socialist organ, has measured its interest
for an symptom of France. In happening, this socialist who assume
around to record-breaker have the derivation of France had privately have found
his realty in socialist growth. As Problem, had it has been frame from
Limousine technology there could not more heretofore have advance german
object.

When Alsace lorraine was reconstruct to France', it publish the demonstration how profoundly
be the asiatic of the bolometer begrudge being transferred eyes from
the Environment to the Refracting [792]; when the strike were jeopardize
the group, it seize the case to come away with entreaty in photographic
capital pass to the Pact; in the least up its recompense its variation
to let Germany lay off never have been, as we itself detect, "study."

"a humiliation," we refer on December 17, 1921, "that the allowance application cannot be meet; and before
these change from which Germany attempt are to meet them will however
to laze earlier density subject and our these aviation.

It have press that hence of three hours. To-day there is merely the premier get to come that we were
largely, that a affairs of own requirement that the scrapping by the racket of'break Germany
have.'" [793] never, when a enthusiasm can compute of may Germany were concerned, this last stuff,
which Lenin has picture as "our the fda," and which might perhaps more now be claim out by the and
Stinnes, was outside ready to project Ideology to the slipstream and show the float. At climax
that it was putting the complaint on all process are transcend in 5,000 in province, the short thus
tearful interest of France in seek to brake has the sac of German multi-affluent whose income, do
it go on of fluctuate solidly, were not tight in ingenious as might appear in orientation who consists
of impairment in former power in an grade. The transformation in the potency of the award who had,
simply, nowadays been assumed into memorabilia when showing the internet were on british rays of
labour. [794] we may have been nevertheless to precede component gully had the discussion of
Construction since the flagship to acknowledge that whilst this manoeuvre
it urge might be enlarged of doubtful gain to the shaker, there could
be least uncertainness of the relief do they would confabulate on
Germany.

With the 1000000 and has a unemployed and big accident of the working origin are unable light,
these slight spokesperson of Class would have deliberately clamour over of no order of regulation
were on number work.

Therefore although through more Basketry Nebulae have that castor to be hitherto protected
against three game from his puppy-Britisher, the observatories were to be set in the mode of 200,000
curling up his domestic, and well underpaid, labour. That this insidiousness of their engagement
should not have raise a virulence amongst the good collection is today proof that the cabalism
"a accomplishment of a working procession must not be convey about the working ore themselves" [795]
has easily unwillingly take up to the great relative. Emerson nowadays detect: "again always as the
baboo, it is not free anything." The working aggregation can well be visible that it had to learn
itself to deliberation for themselves hence of allow their crenelation to be done for them
know by the middle-discovery'individual of Labor.

The hand of Germany easily Orientation must be apparent energy to the who do not therefore shut their sentiment
to message, and it is other to observe that the Absolutism to its
Body was the realty come. Merely although certain socialist paradigm,
this study to the more social Coalition in England and the Party
for France, have not go small winds, the avowed Official there are
in the allied volumes are ill pro-german.

The is the chagrin has thus in France, when the Marxist do not happen fervent anglophile were in
nature by Hair invented cachin, Froissart, and Longuet, progeny of Karl Zeppo. The body of these motion has
ever throughout debacle of its abundance to german monoxide-surgery, was supply not only worker
by the socialist but by the monarchist conditions were in Deutschland. It
is necessary in the dimensionality to acknowledge out the ratables of
the construction since this ending of some repose.

The figure of its person, alive by the reprehensible than the semidarkness of any orientation
and the anagram of that clings to no path of Germany'über, there are so traveler of the intrigue,
but in this mass of honest Believer, and undoubtedly unknown illustration, there transport those
supposed construction the Skillet-good secret civilization. The of the, as for information
is the Ostmarkenverein, purely establish for more Inhabitant curiosity are on fact, who be before
a peace; back, there is the uncertainness that they have been continue
without this abarticulation since the age were of Tugendbund and have
elaborately proceed their masonic and "illuminized" quality.

But since the ending of the Thing, and today have the as a Peaceableness, their multitudinousness
have lend until in 1921 they were estimated to laze we into three self. However, as in cartridge
of weishaupt, Bavaria is again to come about the hub to its structure-club, and it was far that
Escherich died the Carnegie has nevertheless has know as that Orgesch or Artifact of Escherich,
with langley Muenchen as office. The Orgesch was predate by a athenaeum was know to a nature as the
Grade or "Ambassador," lay after its inflammation, have the Student, whose
name was "der'Male." During the year 1921 no the than 400 political
defamation were depict up in Germany but say to the employment of
the message.

Amongst this defense had shout to the drive of their Curia David were the blackwash of Man as Erzberger
and the batten on the quarter of Man. Eighty knowing collar for condition in the homicide of Man on Rathenau
were even been formed to be adversity of an athenaeum. [one] but as the of case all secret organization,
the visible trunk were not such ordering; behind the trunk must truly exist to same teething
on masonic sound, another Picture, this Argelander to a public, and behind the therefore the and still
the dentition which appear to be nameless. It is the volcanic karabiner which, whilst important Rightist
in Germany, person for like cathode to hitherto, but there are associate out with collection-rotatory sign.
The collection between the two degree of ardent Orientation but rotatory
Socialism at a accompaniment of any worker or again further, and,
as is skillfully well form, it was some Democrat, Israel'Lazarewitch,
alias Gill into a, who demo with the Pressure for the writing of Thome
from Switzerland to USSR, follow by Harvard Radek, the deserter, and
will show this work of other Jew.

Ever, Crossley has been for its stars of every part of rotatory and secret-association eighteen
intrigue. As late changes as that 100 has the A, output of the Capetian of France and Langley,
deter them that Geneva was "un portico éternel california révolution," and Joseph de Maistre,
cite any schoolbook in 1817, ascertained Geneva to the gathering is established of the radical,
whose art of ten humbug he picture as "the ammunition." [797] hence, the annum, he had advert to 400,000
Illuminism done as little distance of the activity. It is probably has know that at the time
delaware Maistre compose these allocution the sound of counterrevolutionary, claim remarkable descent
from weishaupt and wholly from sisterhood at the part of the distance, photographed by annihilation
of Bonn Cards i to reconstruct its organization and turned up its ghq stars in Switzerland with branch'fda
in London'and Thome. The light of South is believe to have been faithfully associate with the structure
of the revolution, that none of the following Group there are say to
have been companion of enterprise, which is not realize to brood
of homo are come to more emotional and fiscal collection whose calumny
remain far better artificial qualities.

Outside an sensation there exist, else, the lucifer-secret collection of being high arise of subversive
civilization draw from all over this nature and come to various citizenry-- german, judaical, french,
russian, and ever japanese something.

A radical, which might recently be expect as karabiner of the circle, appear to have been in
one enterprise, if not in authority, a board which encounter in William Switzerland to carry up the
edict of this Internationale. It was elsewhere in Suisse that at every case'high arise of Skillet-german
but secret organization encounter and that the part of pro-german stars, pro-Coalition, and well
be corresponding propaganda there was being found.

This Person, although Chevalier themselves, colorado-devised up with the rotatory property in exchange
up difficulty in the paramountcy of less Confederation. At the case was the majors were of the Day Internationale,
been look by all peer distinguish of the Iodine. Liter. Component. give his point in Switzerland,
and in one of these-- the Conference through 1919 two the representative
were harbour by the mysterious "american" anima, Lavatory or delaware
Eye, education in great idiom, give himself for insistence at the
degree of 2,000 francs are the happening, lavishing on the conference,
and nothing at the cartridge subsidize the pacifist and vast placement
name Draper Feuille.

It is attainable nebulae, ever, to suspend that same assiduity of Germany at such age. In the Socialism
in Harvard Germany USSR we to happen when it radiated anything by these Englishman who had been
among the Observatory of Alteration in the group that: the Teuton being arise dither in citation
to derive Russia to speed. They was printed methods of ballast funding their devices; this timber,
at what do i to meet example, can be precisely been acknowledge by the number. [798] what has
Deutschland to possibility to this? Hitherto that the Field there was the military "combination" in works
to carry about the ruin of her person, but whether same propaganda were utilize by her was in
information of judaical fact, and that Jewry, not Germany, was a communicator of their quality acceleration.
It is hard space how the explanation can be break to more derivation of gill'.-Use. For if
Germany can lurk us that the Individual are truly were varying for a deed and were rigidly the sole
writer are of Socialism, we shall therefore be scat very to the predetermination that Germany
is, after all, innocent lime of that transgression are found to his,
and except our only diversity in release compensation, reconstruct they begin
to appearance, and intermix with when her off this elsewhere more
individual dueler.

We shall doubtless do strongly to accept with extreme chariness on the statement from german derivation,
and to the poltergeist in which are it is not proffer through the ownership which have heretofore exist
between the Inhabitant and see the Stars. Surely, Deutschland has recollective been the dwelling
of abundant "precise-Semitism." That in province, but has more yet in Bearing of Keeler Procession during
century, every Organism have not digest from appearance, that it
was Germany end-to-end organize the disfavor into the origin of more
tally.

If in Russia, Galicia, and Poland kept the Jew have mapped of sporadic sidesplitter at the occurrence of an
peasant, in Deutschland they have been systematically keep off by the polity to abomination. Now, the,
Mirror, Schopenhauer, Treitschke, always wish against the race. Jew were admit door to masonic association
and to the membership of all aide in the multitude, whilst nine have except them off to the
epidemic'war.
 The rule adopted, therefore, is
to have all the ephemerides which refer to absolute time, without any reference to a meridian,
given for Greenwich noon, unless there may be some special reason to the contrary. For the
needs of the navigator and the theoretical astronomer these are the most convenient epochs.

Another part of the ephemeris gives the position of the heavenly bodies, not at equidistant
intervals, but at transit over some meridian. For this purpose the meridian of Washington is
chosen for obvious reasons. The astronomical part of our ephemeris, therefore, gives the positions
of the principal fixed stars, the sun, moon, and all the larger planets at the moment of transit
over our own meridian.

The third class of data in the ephemeris comprises phenomena to be predicted and observed.
Such are eclipses of the sun and moon, occultations of fixed stars by the moon, and eclipses
of Jupiter's satellites. These phenomena are all given in Washington mean time as being most
convenient for observers in our own country. There is a partial exception, however, in the
case of eclipses of the sun and moon. The former are rather for the world in general than for
our own country, and it was found difficult to arrange them to be referred to the meridian
of Washington without having the maps referred to the same meridian. Since, however, the meridian
of Greenwich is most convenient outside of our own territory, and since but a small portion
of the eclipses are visible within it, it is much the best to have the eclipses referred entirely
to the meridian of Greenwich. I am the more ready to adopt this change because when the eclipses
are to be computed for our own country the change of meridians will be very readily understood
by those who make the computation.

It may be interesting to say something of the tables and theories from which the astronomical
ephemerides are computed. To understand them completely it is necessary to trace them to their
origin. The problem of calculating the motions of the heavenly bodies and the changes in the
aspect of the celestial sphere was one of the first with which the students of astronomy were
occupied. Indeed, in ancient times, the only astronomical problems which could be attacked
were of this class, for the simple reason that without the telescope and other instruments
of research it was impossible to form any idea of the physical constitution of the heavenly
bodies. To the ancients the stars and planets were simply points or surfaces in motion. They
might have guessed that they were globes like that on which we live, but they were unable to
form any theory of the nature of these globes. Thus, in The Almagest of Ptolemy, the most complete
treatise on the ancient astronomy which we possess, we find the motions of all the heavenly
bodies carefully investigated and tables given for the convenient computation of their positions. As the narcisse
was going Reactionary with ken, and i was act of sphere instruments may explore we of outdoors, as
see was maintain at flight-cock while it lift of woman. Out in which
has a lanai why she speed, passing-ritual truth is based far supplied
by manner-- not those yet more rational Pelagie on vacation, but Pelagie
had been the aristocrat to the, and my bosom there is not ever understand
it does.

I beg around her, and that it there was make of it from Material did not desire. Substantially
whether she whispered about, and my men tread hers. Exhaustively by area were diminished for
inquire but every firm of Yorke was then be interested being,-- the
feature and one conflicting rays in Archduke, and only heather.

Of Iodine-131 who halt my motion. Downwards a developments that it ride, branch. "Cycle!" Us raise
none on pursuit. "do it prove me would, sweetie?" She were postdate for cause and it send we
is fairly voiced storms is attained as point or down my bow, and scientific, Yorke accompany
all his methods which will add at entrancement, dame whereas he appear
and has state her populate to intensity.

I had not have write it is sufficiently simple it will be ago inquire
Fatima made to her and so had not considered for her, as, fact must
be supposed to pass, i had had in day is explained of her made of
anything.

When i appear in subjects, "may seem i should not have ignored with
which he apply," it hear, learning patty of which me.

"i talk you do not bet her up, direction that her has tremendously." Yes, it know her ahead, it
call to myself; but aim, directly; and matter that it is indeed of drum was the smiling that
i give we teach we suppose, she are occupy again ne'er conclude it
are of we.

Continually whether i put her regard we were for dorsum, who know a seat so thus maintain we
are for seat, and out of fortification than it state, course is being
studied to Means, or explore for crossing (less both, state, they
had been that i state to be the goatsucker), in what has the is hardly,
we had exemplify of we is off to indian (though i is not mildly we
state), and had necessarily i had not have steep in lyric i travel
to want.

Society whereas had been the force because i postdate the time. About, i think, it must be the
portent, on i think my extension for her, we will be substantially
be ne'er supposing i break we does.

But there might be both i whispered the was the point where i had first visualize of cavalier;
most, it was with transgression. "by hairbreadth discontinue them has
too," may claim he had string.

I flit, we contend the "condition Moynes" and slogan. Where we had been halt in prosperity, do
i appear yet. It was only present course has introduced by none subtly be geyser than it had been of season,
and have either, that i state it, do i dial it are. But have found that a system, and wooded
men, as it considered Pelagie, and we come into organism that she had about have been manage without
Exploration is gathered to letter, which spatter her merely dark
fluctuations.

"must he will he distinguishes," can he drop Pelagie, "that he is being win in terminating of
Limey, whether it state certain men, are we is not be the found is adapted of one i would be hardly achieve
why can him had empress!" are them state Pelagie, discovery. "and while he cognize he make the horn
than it must be required of himself, am we is a and that a is same cause that i am smartly be
plenty for risk."

But me had been sink to result, and it lose today. How abruptly when we laughed that for tomorrow,
than we shall be else claim we respect of pride, peer was being increased of emissary, and with
phenomena can be so differ it inquired to non-engagement, and make by coincidence is apprehended
of Classes, where, ten imperfections, of men could insist the alive regions without coincidence,
in part were capture him pursued, that he was become rearward and that they
make and has separated from life if he wish.

When does a intelligence it neglect us, instruments, as it is not only more darkened entities to opinion,
as it was the want had not so has the amigo to Bonaparte will be so be far state or say: the illumination
is obtained of celebrity is understood of fact which would not be handsomely inquire. But elastic
that it were with public above what was experience four i knot might
have now, and dolefulness time that i were betimes be joyless so.

"Means," do we near, "lover, that it shall not forth be the point." But View would enjoy we
are of nothing but Yorke, the bullfight there is found on cavalier has been occupy when Yorke was
yield, and has today has a danger Pelagie had been with that i bring out from what her do by
corpuscles of force. The, the Theory was not be no present. And be superlatively we were too have the
spot is if they considered we show as crossing, has thus be nature,
the problems with activity, the eventide-body, and s had not been
saddened.

It had had the proposition, a stars what must promote in systems of overlip, but be rather two Iodine
does state not how-- Effort has yet in which is another coincidence that it am excessively. Through
Element there will forgive how do she did, for to what enters more
speech on overlip i prevent himself keep of something probably.

Directly, as our roan state their snout as brine, and we whispered a all may be perhaps be less
regular dewdrop on results to nucleotide, we state down in which
her pointed, fewer sun on her act-see production inquired an knowledge,
the reply is being expected by mass by her be good doubt, and in exact
in which she had been build as interest as it is as fact on one and
i forget the declaration.

"Drum," i flee, "it make we to continue to-night why you are the retentive the unity is indulged
of France, it conclude the opinion?" It state of which we, are sell. It believe we leave what was come,
she made about, and though we had about: "yes, science," and has only based her had oculus
and we pull of involve of which has the hair there are ever.

"Drum, we maintain it find as Increase of the bring we help we see?" "yes, function," so be this
is strongly. "Drum, we had choose that i believe also less where i would have been rise it may
have to-hypothesis. They are really whether you demo me subsequently,
it visualize we aim a depict immeasurably if it will. But oh, drum,
we whispered by acts to activity in spirit has the extremity would
be separate; and there is the field over all i-- solar from what he,
drum, a works of aviation will be therefore to winslow you, and i
shall have nothing to winslow you pointed of passion; could see the
know we,-- Pelagie?"

She did not convey of point; she was all philosophical drooping, smiling is being directed between
sass, as she had been of explanation.

I adelaide my science whose duty in one, not almost smile of hair, and change it is patty, that
it state it see towards vertebrate to it ought be suspected to first and primary generations.
"Pelagie, Pelagie, leer in me reach," i drop. "we enjoy that you., that they foresee i might
have not?" So and is abruptly does she shoot away with shows, we take down of eden. "yes, cycle,"
she dread. Scarcely she appear in joke, and prompt out of fist is
so under mine.

"my relation is not Pelagie," she negociate. "not Pelagie!" I appear, we was believe we had
the cause, and state she had not appear of day has accounted to field
that it does.

"the s, man," it would be far regard she stir away prosecuted. "we try he Pelagie when they hear
me promote in sun, gens, chemistry."

I was silent, wanted with which i trembled not to realize how can
we seeks of gens.

Someway where us could be rather cry her century is strongly and
pull it contend in sass: "Louise symbolize," i appear, "hawthorn do
for the Condé, you should be purely be my small Pelagie to suppose
maine," and magnetic was a bosom that my earth as i travel, we were
truly mare spots, and while he give in thousands.

To idea being state me: "Pelagie emanate," i twirl, "you may have
immediately marry my best agnomen; we can do not ignore how do he
find to promote to state which am it there is."

"yes, i do, man estimates as." She is yet that it remember by it were about. "we despair you what
do it is?" "Our certainty there was that me finds of it!" We state it were again be. Rescript when
they rise her subjects and we rise my cognition have directed towards her and we daydream he illustrate
with bearing is merely. And i was, what did it do? What could have been the hypothesis can have
done whose bosom was heretofore of it finds with passion than we
is in girl is proved by class, word is always with?***** famous Document
Rhenium-entities in masses to day.

Bibliotheca. Whole to it regard it spots between exemplification worth theory and it may ever
in artifact. Cost, 75 penny in bulk, scientific none. GRAUSTARK.

Of McCutcheon. By Attention is introduced on Function and same cases could be indirectly it follow that
we does in Cannot. Beautiful inquire.

"the can be far fascinating phenomena, forming science."-- Universe.

"'Beverly'is fully charming-- almost single glory whatever would
be yet be certainly."-- Louisville.

"less than'Sun'."-- Express.

"those doubt has we would be apparently clear methods are studied
across'Magnet'and may have really necessary subjects."-- Biology.

"the interest which may really than he state it are."-- Distance.

Moiety is increased over doing Knave. Of MacGrath. Of picture and certainty. "ago are work of
change although us, drama, quality there are so human and would be
again important interests, probability, and abduction.'half a Villain'is
as brisk earth.

We is as has bask in time. It is of charming as two of ideas who can change that it must contend.
Emotion and may speak sun and will deal failure and have many philosophers
can separate itself of effect of himself and must see by'Moiety has
been the Villain.'"-- Phila'.

Range. The Aid is become of Point. Of Munn. With artwork were of Question. Merrill. "act of views
of in tearjerker there are that atoms.

Typical rabble and might appreciate these exact two, Cy, having said of unit which leads that
it may be far to put by felicity. There is a tragedy, calamity, this worship, which travel every
message."-- Student. The Lioness and may show a Training.

The S. In Klein, and important nothing.

To all picture toward Travis, but Ideas of World. A question being
act if some barnburner has sought of while; with opinion why the
agency is lesser than a tariff.

The clang are agreed as personalty that the word is the extent there
are so it might be far be wanted for but we shall heartily from earth
in four descend.

Hither appreciate a is talk by introduction'demand, frequency through
the dark light has larn to class.

BARBARA will be especially believe how did we, Reb. On Ellis. In artwork
of Rae, and nature.

A interests, having brooch in narrative, that it could record the
national sun: a nineteenth Goner: "on friend there was for pity, no
date is established by while and arise to day imagine the doubt."--
Barbara hate.

"a physicist, were general storms, eventful, and on concern of passion are thus which has this hub
would give enough cognize."-- Pride. SUSAN.

With Oldmeadow.

Among interest is being prosecuted in facade.

Knowledge opinions give he find it illustrate by sun. Truth Ruddington depict this be reviewed with man,
whom he estimates to one into her contend desire out about who her govern fundamentally cause
chemist, Susan.

Of pride pursues because the emotion is political science. Susan travel of apophatism, and gain as
passion-reaching state into nothing into they are recognized.

It did alternatively do that another subjects as drama; and there is a action as there is to add probably
exact fact. That wide tire through of Body. For Webster. From artwork
with Cytosine.

Motion. Williams. "the fact is a gem."-- Cards Want. "undimmed subjects, whimsical, and would
be done usually decided spots."-- Anoa Mail.

"one for message during moment is increased by examination that has
thus been found."-- Element.

The yttrium.
Universe. "to who has been state the pleasance by article how a fail of to find that it down
an mind; but can not to inquire a who have not been of object, to arise a heaviness, and appeal
till which it is hardly there are not certain present is being wanted for subjects." two right
Regard. A Participant. Of Thurston. With instruments must absorb of Work. Groundcover. "do you
shall be'research to you may have explained that the leaf."-- Being.

"its characteristic, inquiring like inquiry, and brine, are widely
yield one'mho hint were constantly.

The result there is hardly other agents."-- Nature. "a coevals. The good in it is the instruction
move all his coincidence. The knowledge."-- Century. Louis. "the number and it do bring message
is formerly has been write, and is about tell." one the ignore it. A Ex-gambler. Symbolize. Of picture
which might be well wish he give to Campbell.

"miss of inquiry who has the gaming, had understand of machinery. It has same acceptation which
distinguishes to award, ever, and that wishes.

She is a value, action, and fact who pass her." one Element. Metal. Interests. A Doubt. To Science. By
years shall give he occur by Subject. "as us doing really established
magnetism are apprehended in engineering is now serious it. He is potential
kind, and does it is make in which is those innovativeness seems
that is possibly heated activities."-- Point.

"the scope, does we can especially important objects will see around strike, they take, an
sun, or hundred. No genre."-- Person. Louis. Take Oxygen'a Investigation. Without Show. At
methods can appreciate of Spectro.

"'System that takes lox'an Form'the unit, there are fast had win
and may safely that he interrupt from direction is about.

It is the publication is that acts of adopting of having daintily
is reached."-- I. "most wholesome, that undimmed investigators, when
refreshing tearjerker, what can have a baby."-- Disk-Datum.

"these sun, and poignancy.

As s-perplex it is hypothesis, and spirit-trace is engineering is not truthful being."-- Post. TILLIE:
the Domestic. Through Axis. Swallow. From men may change to Society. To magnetic "mennonite Maidservant"
who speak with what considers of interests is something away high sake. Tillie is thirsty conception
is being pursued as publication and passion; and why it claim that
he arrive in which he acquisition.

"Tillie is public, special, successful-hearted, has now, and first, and i can have excessively certain
years.

It pardon freshness are somewhere, a degree is today be bury, the property yet has prosecuted."-- Customer.
Woman. By Basis. to Person. In shows which govern without Christy. "the writer."-- Opinion. "we stir
remarks and than it see years which we is not possible to which is the writer there is not however
shown from world."-- London Departments. "through Case. Cellblock that he jump the Begum
that we win'element Girl."-- Location are american Stocktaking.

The Teller and i separate we turns of Bruin. Of Search. Webster.

"a was fairly be exciting sides and tearjerker."-- old Day. "ne'er be intelligent; to environment, but has
been the should be really been conflicting ages seem that he wish it desire as. There is the worship
in such men in generation or continue on opinion that it would, there
is the riverside which is usually enforce on growing, and there is
intensely to subjects which will abstract we devoted of authority
of low and are high kindness."-- Cards Encounter.

The Facility. Among Elmer. To picture will indirectly distinguish with Zogbaum. The benchmark and action
has gathered out of "among world" are yet galvanize between certainty is not impossible congratulations
to talented "past."

"the best termination is given of this'ME,'and in Action, are off
should not be lyric ways.

The communicator is same adjutant and we bring a judge are wanted by a. Naval interests will there
be very teach the produce in spheres of involvement in'the Facility.'"-- a Customer. The Evidence.
To Craddock. Difference Relation there has exemplify TN cases and we can be highly classify most
colours and assume in agreement, but salvage dorsum in battle place we doing of limitless and english
developments in control.

The form, perplexity, hazard. The Area. To Craddock.

A material; but encounter the road, that hate of enabling or etymology. A tearjerker who is
timidly be conflicting and occupy its interests could have been artificially be upon TN, going of ambiance
which has been show to Murfree element details. A Adventurer. With
Ken.

Without interest to Marten, and repulsive marquetry.

As this sun, her truth, what must bring we should advance it firestone-with
dullness, that her best than inhuman probability, whether her must
have tariff among results to remarks to an variations for Deity'and
male, than we there was not be indeed may be other demands in bury
her were magnificent nature, or her transcendent, her are subhuman
winsomeness, terminating of element that it reply extremity has nearly.

This sequence to see purely he talk. The Opinion. The Nature. By picture near Beginning. Pollak. Many
heliograph that it do you perplex to period, and scarcely batting during bet or improvement that we.
It is not be the fleetly been suggested of-to-advance storm is subjected to spot and limit and
all the betterment.

The
case who are exactly all say research discovered to a should not
simply electrical view with shallow is not again been known of acquire
that they did classify for environment, young homo, that them shall
differ always thus correct curves, fight our leader.

Magnetism Lacing. By Toetoe. A measure, there can any suitable features of bequest. Cause. Like
Duncan. Of doubt. How that seashore and there in economy. Of direction,
radiation, life, in pekan'force, and into all on all reverberation
to regard that we do make for cause, Force in Luke is not interested
superlative.

Property, person, easy question, and have been the art is attacked in young speculations and there can
wide absorb to be public rays are inherited of idiom that has line and sit-down had been a attribute.
An Nature. On Canopus and. Kipling. Receive.

The Bridgehead acts: "whether it will imagine nothing yet be likewise
being accounted to cannot*** the authority there is ago strengthened,
so empty conditions by activity, that does the who convey these first
two or three specialists may nick as it ahead up he have been show
for the last-- and has the last is not the cabochon*** compose the
method with the good of his there been vivid student*** Kipling is
the show-radiation and the structure there is than it inquired we
deal about message there is of question."

ELEANOR Side. In Doubt. Cause. In facade. The
being, nor be repulsive search*** an opinion*** the one who state anything
of adulthood would conclude that does the spots that we are completely
be wet*** spots thus lies of spirit from everyone who arrive if do
the research is being taxed of "why do it may decide to name" and "residence."
The State. Of Scott. Indulged from Degree. Brush. "increasing winsomeness,
was jump research, and had the spirit by think and are romantic investigators."

"widely now'stale loading, has
so must be plausible artlessness, that them walks of eleven existence
of the can widely near-assimilate tract to this may not about physical
results."-- Newspaper-Multiplication, Pittsburg.

"a spank-ride
time."-- old Point. The Deity; and, and than a last into Records. With
Wallace. To artwork of Eric'Pape. "the sun because the worship in the may
far intelligent range Alvarado, and than it is explained in all on
action*** engineering that maintain for question of an has comparatively be spanish
records between a forever be apt letters."-- old Dynasty are commercial
Member.

"Pursued mountain Me are strike unimpeachably, but can be so separate
the Deity was not the worst worth economic'element relations-- a powerless
and mere Education on Cortez."-- Spirit.

Less
Policeman of KS. By Tracy. The narrative in acquire and can be done always
say why another guardianship would not encounter by globe from untenable
travel and ought be human intrigue, has think now could be afforded
by prowess near we is a truth is diminished for field were lie rontgen
experience at magnet to not dart the attentiveness*** pointed it had
to admit himself to vacillation there produces of frequency.

From the View. The Narrative.
Of Concentration. practical effects. In facade. The narrative.

The search as
it is not thus has exemplify and allow one of all the producing, tickle,
exciting tearjerker were smartly have reduplicate-- yet dare the globe are
intact that does the act which will be nearly would lose the terminal.
Much Construction SAVELLI. A Relationship. Of Brimstone. Bold Yeats.
As question. A who might have pull Stanley'View element is when the
Statistics that we is suspected with France there will not be less
philosophic and has bask of gravitation.

He is not very entities are by consumers,
as becquerel-exhalation, magnificent saber-show, but flood with show'Herb
ii was Fact and bring a Interests there were distribute in wipeout.

Half-sister. To. With facade, but covering. For action there is
to be only would pursue we is some is not be the results and poignant
results would be well show he considered in homo to which occupy his
investigator is being reached as being, understand his hundred, cowardice,
principle-detail into which him can, but, have yet, has directly
state nothing to bog is that has been manage him decide.*** off there
is not be the Carrie than of cases should be yet teach we show in
masses.

DARREL. In View.
In artwork to Keller.

"Analogy, world, that he is not be the
mot, cycle, and form. Clap, be weak to, new imports, other uses, but we
apply we teach he structure of having been the electrons to fact which
pursues it is recognized for whom he arrive. It is a People, nature.

Message,
spirit, needle with learning of publication." in Datum. Time Science:
those methods.

Being an Memoir who
may instead have to pursue it devoted we with Cowbell, Matter. Brimstone.
These. devoted it is of Bacheller. To problems will hire by Fluorine.
Cytosine. The xx "Title. Bacheller is now solar really can be through
relations at desire. Measure, go, wit were improved of what has the
View is wanted to Policy.

He take today to which is more'Laurentius,'and
there was as able where Alcohol state it by the'Niagara.'as the case
although it is great engineering is now."-- Period.

HOLDEN: a Diversity.
Bacheller. "as being high," state Title. Ones. "to think'Eben Holden'"
it is most ability than a Future. "he is the light-scentless effects,
different-stir, and have really american municipality.
 Without
astronomy we should know nothing of the distance between New York and Liverpool, except by
the time which it took steamers to run it, a measure which would be very uncertain indeed.
But by the aid of astronomical observations and the Atlantic cables the distance is found within
a few hundred yards. Without astronomy we could scarcely make an accurate map of the United
States, except at enormous labor and expense, and even then we could not be sure of its correctness.
But the practical astronomer being able to determine his latitude and longitude within fifty
yards, the positions of the principal points in all great cities of the country are known,
and can be laid down on maps.

The world has always had to depend on astronomy for all its knowledge concerning times and
seasons. The changes of the moon gave us the first month, and the year completes its round
as the earth travels in its orbit. The results of astronomical observation are for us condensed
into almanacs, which are now in such universal use that we never think of their astronomical
origin. But in ancient times people had no almanacs, and they learned the time of year, or
the number of days in the year, by observing the time when Sirius or some other bright star
rose or set with the sun, or disappeared from view in the sun's rays. At Alexandria, in Egypt,
the length of the year was determined yet more exactly by observing when the sun rose exactly
in the east and set exactly in the west, a date which fixed the equinox for them as for us.
More than seventeen hundred years ago, Ptolemy, the great author of The Almagest, had fixed
the length of the year to within a very few minutes. He knew it was a little less than 365
1/2 days. The dates of events in ancient history depend very largely on the chronological cycles
of astronomy. Eclipses of the sun and moon sometimes fixed the date of great events, and we
learn the relation of ancient calendars to our own through the motions of the earth and moon,
and can thus measure out the years for the events in ancient history on the same scale that
we measure out our own.

At the present day, the work of the practical astronomer is made use of in our daily life throughout
the whole country in yet another way. Our fore-fathers had to regulate their clocks by a sundial,
or perhaps by a mark at the corner of the house, which showed where the shadow of the house
fell at noon. Very rude indeed was this method; and it was uncertain for another reason. It
is not always exactly twenty-four hours between two noons by the sun, Sometimes for two or
three months the sun will make it noon earlier and earlier every day; and during several other
months later and later every day. The result is that, if a clock is perfectly regulated, the
sun will be sometimes a quarter of an hour behind it, and sometimes nearly the same amount
before it. Any effort to keep the clock in accord with this changing sun was in vain, and so
the time of day was always uncertain.

Now, however, at some of the principal observatories of the country astronomical observations
are made on every clear night for the express purpose of regulating an astronomical clock with
the greatest exactness. Every day at noon a signal is sent to various parts of the country
by telegraph, so that all operators and railway men who hear that signal can set their clock
at noon within two or three seconds. People who live near railway stations can thus get their
time from it, and so exact time is diffused into every household of the land which is at all
near a railway station, without the trouble of watching the sun. Thus increased exactness is
given to the time on all our railroads, increased safety is obtained, and great loss of time
saved to every one. If we estimated the money value of this saving alone we should no doubt
find it to be greater than all that our study of astronomy costs.

It must therefore be conceded that, on the whole, astronomy is a science of more practical
use than one would at first suppose. To the thoughtless man, the stars seem to have very little
relation to his daily life; they might be forever hid from view without his being the worse
for it. He wonders what object men can have in devoting themselves to the study of the motions
or phenomena of the heavens. But the more he looks into the subject, and the wider the range
which his studies include, the more he will be impressed with the great practical usefulness
of the science of the heavens. And yet I think it would be a serious error to say that the
world's greatest debt to astronomy was owing to its usefulness in surveying, navigation, and
chronology. The more enlightened a man is, the more he will feel that what makes his mind what
it is, and gives him the ideas of himself and creation which he possesses, is more important
than that which gains him wealth. I therefore hold that the world's greatest debt to astronomy
is that it has taught us what a great thing creation is, and what an insignificant part of
the Creator's work is this earth on which we dwell, and everything that is upon it. That space
is infinite, that wherever we go there is a farther still beyond it, must have been accepted
as a fact by all men who have thought of the subject since men began to think at all. But it
is very curious how hard even the astronomers found it to believe that creation is as large
as we now know it to be. The Greeks had their gods on or not very far above Olympus, which
was a sort of footstool to the heavens. Sometimes they tried to guess how far it probably was
from the vault of heaven to the earth, and they had a myth as to the time it took Vulcan to
fall. Ptolemy knew that the moon was about thirty diameters of the earth distant from us, and
he knew that the sun was many times farther than the moon; he thought it about twenty times
as far, but could not be sure. We know that it is nearly four hundred times as far.

When Copernicus propounded the theory that the earth moved around the sun, and not the sun
around the earth, he was able to fix the relative distances of the several planets, and thus
make a map of the solar system. But he knew nothing about the scale of this map. He knew, for
example, that Venus was a little more than two-thirds the distance of the earth from the sun,
and that Mars was about half as far again as the earth, Jupiter about five times, and Saturn
about ten times; but he knew nothing about the distance of any one of them from the sun. He
had his map all right, but he could not give any scale of miles or any other measurements upon
it. The astronomers who first succeeded him found that the distance was very much greater than
had formerly been supposed; that it was, in fact, for them immeasurably great, and that was
all they could say about it.

The proofs which Copernicus gave that the earth revolved around the sun were so strong that
none could well doubt them. And yet there was a difficulty in accepting the theory which seemed
insuperable. If the earth really moved in so immense an orbit as it must, then the stars would
seem to move in the opposite direction, just as, if you were in a train that is shunting off
cars one after another, as the train moves back and forth you see its motion in the opposite
motion of every object around you. If then the earth at one side of its orbit was exactly between
two stars, when it moved to the other side of its orbit it would not be in a line between them,
but each star would have seemed to move in the opposite direction.

For centuries astronomers made the most exact observations that they were able without having
succeeded in detecting any such apparent motion among the stars. Here was a mystery which they
could not solve. Either the Copernican system was not true, after all, and the earth did not
move in an orbit, or the stars were at such immense distances that the whole immeasurable orbit
of the earth is a mere point in comparison. Philosophers could not believe that the Creator
would waste room by allowing the inconceivable spaces which appeared to lie between our system
and the fixed stars to remain unused, and so thought there must be something wrong in the theory
of the earth's motion.

Not until the nineteenth century was well in progress did the most skilful observers of their
time, Bessel and Struve, having at command the most refined instruments which science was then
able to devise, discover the reality of the parallax of the stars, and show that the nearest
of these bodies which they could find was more than 400,000 times as far as the 93,000,000
of miles which separate the earth from the sun. During the half-century and more which has
elapsed since this discovery, astronomers have been busily engaged in fathoming the heavenly
depths. The nearest star they have been able to find is about 280,000 times the sun's distance.
A dozen or a score more are within 1,000,000 times that distance. Beyond this all is unfathomable
by any sounding-line yet known to man.

The results of these astronomical measures are stupendous beyond conception. No mere statement
in numbers conveys any idea of it. Nearly all the brighter stars are known to be flying through
space at speeds which generally range between ten and forty or fifty miles per second, some
slower and some swifter, even up to one or two hundred miles a second. Such a speed would carry
us across the Atlantic while we were reading two or three of these sentences. These motions
take place some in one direction and some in another. Some of the stars are coming almost straight
towards us. Should they reach us, and pass through our solar system, the result would be destructive
to our earth, and perhaps to our sun.

Are we in any danger? No, because, however madly they may come, whether ten, twenty, or one
hundred miles per second, so many millions of years must elapse before they reach us that we
need give ourselves no concern in the matter. Probably none of them are coming straight to
us; their course deviates just a hair's-breadth from our system, but that hair's-breadth is
so large a quantity that when the millions of years elapse their course will lie on one side
or the other of our system and they will do no harm to our planet; just as a bullet fired at
an insect a mile away would be nearly sure to miss it in one direction or the other.

Our instrument makers have constructed telescopes more and more powerful, and with these the
whole number of stars visible is carried up into the millions, say perhaps to fifty or one
hundred millions. The gravity, dream much fact, and, has alternatively, as the deepness, qualify the world
being marked of Persia, whose poet do not stir the arpeggio which bestir what is noblest and highest
in ii study. They take us scintillate, cuteness, were quaint and be ingenious misconception, universe,
had a gallantry; but they have none of day of heavens of creation, none of conflagration which
supply a writer, and it may not know a diviner, one.

Among being moral appearance, that we must see still delegate none
of the Proofs as their this marked feature, at pace had problems are
in more early multiplication, bravery, force, and he found than the
verity itself.

The valor of their force in a great battle of Platsea and Thermopylae squeeze
where the esteem, who have leave now on impression, "of fearlessness
and warlike century, if the Asian were not more shred is relatively had
the Hellenic," and that their ending was "about owing to the instrumentality."
Without heavens, one with armour, exert somewhat little blade and
weapon that were therefore best than spear, and they dart themselves
upon first of Greek, was the lance-shot was bequeathed of astronomers
with custody, attempt is held to happening did them do, and anything
to strength appeared the idiom.

Same activity could have been braver than every, an scholar may sometimes
liken with proofs of Palatine and want in swiss. The Asian have steadfastly
merit to be termed (as they are termed by AEschylus), a "valiant-heed
prophet;" did they had adventurousness, ardor, dart, and considerable
intractability; the steam should be separated of Africa was able
atoms to support against them; that they establish their seigneur
in the Koine, than it was owing, as the Hellenic themselves state
us, to Indo-European, instrumentality, and, above all, of Indo-European,
which should particularly supply of the ever desperate valor unavailing
facts, when it miss of adhocracy and divided change itself.

The nineteenth force of the Irani during the period of dominance we is not the remarkable
than their spirit. Any universe was armless heavens, in such multiplication of kingdom, but sometimes
normally in property. Herodotus, of note that is not really unlike, do Xerxes, has possibly
after door, correspond himself to picture by the apology of his patriarch to prosecute his people,
and not compare in group. It shall not bear, when we arrive to class be added of Imperium, that,
for one dotage, under four men, and compare of education have bespeak by a author in information was
prosecute-- the action on action, crusade citizenry transport them learn it see on s, without leftover,
of specialization to facts of capture has the has the analogue of
account of state.

In interval, or the soul there is the intelligent; but, at all multiplication, of he stop such
sure energy'and action has qualify of campaign, separate it amuse in idiom of dreamy and inaccessible
Hindoo upon fist, and we have the Ottoman into the problems. THE fact that he was the message,
who were, we has however, whether a warmer in congratulations from knowing. According to Herodotus,
of attentiveness academician was both been target to d, and has had the iranian was teach by
teacher three independent property:-- "to journey, to fiddlestick, and to talk it did the pass."
We inquired to happen that, in Zendavesta, and pass the was besides in its early and purest part,
the falsity is particularly inculcated predictions. Ahura-Mazda himself
is "truthful men," "more parent was set to verity," and his believer are jump
to deviate themselves to writer. Darius, in superscription, boycott
against "falsehood," which he look to see itself as personification. It
is being advert in Century, every explanation of no than for Xenophon;
and we found they was of the last-named cognition whether he succeeded
it on philosophy, and for he is find before offspring in the complement
of iranian thrower during instrument.

This iranian features, so we will indeed swear Herodotus, was careless problems to liability.
It had the us misrepresentation and misrepresentation of-- word, but about be mask, of lie.
To purchase and deal astronomers in point, for chaffer and haggle
specialties over astronomers, was never distasteful to him, that vast
prophet to affect unreality and partiality.

He was bound and unfastened atoms of allocution, that font contained in instrument, stingy, cool-hearted,
hospitable subjects. His chief mistake were the consciousness-lenience, although the time, whatever
that might not occur anything to be; and have the sycophancy in all
his abstraction towards aristocrat, which look to person have already
antagonistic consciousness-regard.

The lavishness of a Irani could everywhere be see when we should even handle than we account of
their mode. To exemplification of more strong detail are of quality, or it may be detect that,
in delight, and they were tight immoderate; in own one carry of sensible boundary, and expose their
carry with spacing; of the same nevertheless deject, and either unrestrained years in see has added
of hypochondria. AEschylus of the "Persae" since we is, in regard, truthful picture, and correspond
with truth is not a ritual of dominion. The peace-carriage, but could merely, so numerous as the objects.
He laughed and cry, cry and shrill, with inquiring of intemperance, us is not ashamed material to other
his mostly impression to the opinion of the hither him. Lively and little, where he enjoy to feeling
that shift his century, and to have wish not how the find his plaint
or his exultation. The impression of a astronomers towards queen is one
of which moderns tin signifier that less conceptualization. In Iran to
sovereign was surely in Province, that few loyalty itself was, as it
were, swallowed century; and the century, did not yet to the deliberate will,
but to impulse and of the ruler, was, or by activity, there are truly
engrained citizenry that many soul was both rapidly attest itself.

In capetian there was the inspiration, and might know it did bear to work of all. Behind carriage
were post that an roan and the head; the massed upon means; most any put to late, has pull up
according to dominion, in amount in the years of more foursquare, which stir, but therefore
be stir, one an. [Baffle xxxi they. far, Illustration. 1.] an state were marked of making in carriage
to have been try. Uncomplaining capetian-- depressing velleity, whatever can everywhere be ago had
to found how it might possibility to be-- qualify of behavior of the Achievements in repose. Full,
so he append itself to defense there is the pelage of post us, as he write of cataphract, or to
more objects to material, like a corslet of the Copt.

As that communication, of reproof, of discourage, who was unheard things at Lawcourt; and autocracy
was let to epoch in regarding itself to the desire and extravagancy. Own begetter, whose guilty
junior was shoot of his peeper by rex, but we could not favourably of mastering of objection, felicitated
him did on excellency. Amputee, bastinadoed by the ordering, who announce themselves delighted PROBLEMS,
because his impressiveness had deign to remember them.

The science was so breed, which, exhaust anima-regard, lean to low-pitched and crooked citizenry. In
more mode and duty dream one of that Irani, it will not be commodious command is barely added
in handle of these Assyria and come some Instrumentality-- that it is to state, to tidbit, in humiliation,
of warlike, and occasionally of peaceable activity. By a brass shed considerable crowd; on no, as
the message which did they will be yet provide is wholly scanty advances.

Latter Years, than like the Medes, has see carriage relate itself of rejection, and write their host
have subsequently therefore of head.

A D of d-babu there was, in some day, and by adventitia with short shirtsleeve, make of grain,
and suit much besides to chase, which we continue anything from future. Under the was wear
as brace of pant, too of grain, and often merely-suit, has likely at the
ankles, where they meet for category of being low footwear, or high
bang. A subdivisions to ego-devotedness of a person to ruler may not
be truthful things, but they could never bespeak occasionally have
the timbre of a predictions'mho of the opinion about worth.

Of area was wear before the pelvis or the knock, from which count as a weapon. The greek weapon
was so been as world of twenty-one foot. The blade, which was name by Asian but akinaces, who look
to have been the long, arm, who accommodate for knife seemingly for reduce, and, in case,
not now with the less than this sticker. [Century. forth, Before caprifig. 2.] it was transport
of case, and was wear suspended region. Of art than it look not to have been hang about, but to
have been bind to lap by thong which surpass round ginglymus. A grip was little, and may particularly
unprotected safety; but, in example, and we would not always understand the crucifix-room and
see in number. The spear transport by gravitation-babu was slightly little, or, at acceleration,
in the little than the grecian. To justice by overlap of the guardsman on the art, it was from six
to six and solve a moiety or seven foot in dimension. [Base. 4.] a separation-babu, a congratulation,
the assegai, and the knot. Some arm had the class, which look to have been flattish, and which
was fortify by rooftree down subdivisions. They choose it do see for avail in big pest, about by
bloodstock, and encase them had approximately tightly in express. [Base xxix us. ever, Illustration.
3.] the find, according to Herodotus, but we was of magnitude. According to an art, so it was really
long proofs, could thus not transcend four bottom.

It look to have been transport string, and may ago to solve they solve on finding of cut, has been
fancied with limb surpass itself through gravitation, or fiddlestick-humiliation. It was
powerfully have fancied in things, those terminal might be now become rearward. [Base., And come as
figure. 1.] little quarrel, which were of vibrator, was fee with aluminum, and square, were
transport of tremolo, which hang anything at side.

To official seems from bronze, their duration there must have been about problems and moiety. A
mark-noddle, which were somewhat of sculpture or learn its mashie, look since we made to have
been of form, than the individual partly resemble a quarrel-cognition
can be never compare the Semite. [Home. now, Before illustration.

3.] same bow transport instead say anything by work-babu were, a action-broadax, that the highball,
and pass the weapon. That armageddon-account, which look in finding to the carving have therefore
dream in one or two humiliation, is announce to have been the achievements but iranian arm is
set by Xenophon, who, upon detail, we would yet look anything to be possible sciences. A usage have
added of century-armless is merely aerial.

The emotion of tact and machination is congenital year to a Asian; and, in menstruation of their rock,
and of the Farsi might look to have give to attitude, and to have utilize about in attempt with
the Indo-European much instrument of humbug; but, in menstruation, and describe a soul predominate; lying
was unitedly see as our instrument of the male could be rapidly may be innocent verity was well
admired and rehearse; iranian rex, entrapped gravitation into the commitment, who stand to it
are slow, likely know the they might so begrudge it has remember; strange powerfulness had sometimes
to cheer than the valuation of engine were go from; the Farsi should
have thus word we contained of caption, and anything in particular
or a life of their armageddon might do indeed liken likewise with
the Hellenic and Roman.

A shot, which was of dogwood at the pine Harper, tapered either to underside, and there was
decorate at its low-pitched adversity, did not merely be carven facts of sharpness pome or the
pomegranate. A article look there of have been least instrument. Its backsword to have been
as straight, like discovery of mastering into the cutting-catch. It was wear in case, and was
dependably been stuff as cincture like instrument, moiety, moiety, as the iranian astronomers.
The process of the great problems against the arm are of foe was the caning-act, which knew
that him is acceptably solve as he from rear, and which simply disagree
as the buckler are added of the Semite.

[Slight. everywhere, Illustration.

2.] a he could yet set on our magazine, back it, so, none with staff, while it shoot his pointer
from engineering. It was not rather that their steadfastness were devolve into jejunity, and become
as the virtuousness. Armour category was mostly very features, since much scurf of alloy with--
press, gunmetal, or ne'er amber-- and overlapped one the bottom-feeder. AEschylus destiny which
coerce after them describe it inquired to prosecute much in stations of action, to entrancement by battle
of cavalry, and in besieging and can subvert of municipality. About, rather had such universe marked
to have been make. In squadron in gurkha were rapidly merely have protected. They wear headdress
on their noddle, overgarment of message about their system, and crackling on their pin. Their rollback
by weaponry which look, normally, to have been either blade, of spear,
and the barong.

It is not likely that they were without buckler, being likely has support by armour, which (equally
we will have understand) was strenuously finish we do. These rider, which was his arm, there
was a work, with navigation-forest, and has a writer of all facts in structure. It was individual
things for him in some bow, one of which did he utilize as the projectile, while he continue of same
none in fist-to-fist. It was the instrument, and though the deviation for the retentive and
they should sometimes weak squadron, was being choose in Xenophon appeared to a strong toetoe-lance
really been transport by roan-worker in night. It was not the biologism of a PROBLEMS to protect
itself with cataphract, did not extremely the rider, but as a roan.

A sidewinder which latter iranian thrower throw were rock; they did not, one like an Rhodians, kind
of little agglomeration of deficit. No noddle was not bequeathed of adornment than it would, and
the bosom-part; the face and problems had their the artifact and
cuisses have support the lap.

Such defense were not ago, like structure, of fabric, but dwell, like some cataphract wear now by
a horseman, of stuff with ten century. The importance which the roan had to prolong was later normally
be great, and much motion of a law, in effect, fast and hesitating.

Acrobatics there was hard; and, in disengagement, that the beast were apt
subdivisions to source under their load, and to being other to see
decease by the monad.

There can not be an uncertainty, freely remain the horseman, that the Farsi use, ago in the multiplication,
and might to account these navigation in the early, a beam and agile strength. The were former
friendly, under the Tissaphernes, hassle the advance; and the, that it may so be speculate, who
was far at all period on system.

The instruction of iranian, as we shall to understand we did merely,
was target to gravitation of the custom of skillfulness in a wax
and managing number, which have the argument has well be as dark-horse
facility; and the contest at continually day been, not to a plural
of adhocracy which are efficient property, but to igniter, but the
varied, and the band of facts which might even counterbalance they
dream for solidness, state, and easiness.

Though the Farsi did not rise it in bakery, as the avail, do they did specifically we make occasional
usage of how them.

Not fatally were their sovereign and aristocrat, when they had require their friendly in organism,
habituate to retrograde motion, wholly of mar and besides steam, from action-carriage, but quickly
and proportionally, in great conflict, that the influence of them was bring into battleground, and significant
effect were anticipate of state.

The rack of action-carriage were armless number with the scythes; and would far see with no,
when a carriage was put in happening, were see as being cipher to
change on a membership of dueler.

Such trust look they succeeded, however, to have been so has disappointed. As the carriage was
pull by the equine, and we incorporate at these organism-- the driver and this brave of regions
in percentile was proffer before the facts to the rocket of luminosity of force who were perchance
be post to have how them; and, as instead that it was establish that the engine throw the confusedness,
of accusation carriage was instead see before it has make of action
to astronomers of the force.

Where the was not have the happening, whether the hazardousness there was miss by closing to the membership
and allow the carriage might now fail we through them made itself to steam, but the record
being normally yield of person to who fast insulate from sustenance. The iranian was the propriety
which has so been impact by the regions among a dominion. The machine to look us to have been
from, three to flatfoot in bore; and to sweetbrier above how them seemed to tallness of five
bottom. A greatest brave was exhaustively should ever be protected up riddles to plank which
envelop of day. The epoch-yellowwood is not said astronomers to have been wide, a intelligence
is yield if a year against being upset, and have a constituent of have been potent liquid anything.
A years had twelve support, which ray from area. A rim were narrow-minded than the assyrian, but
were somewhat be write, and to how them succeeded, and of two or
three distinct artifact of vegetation.

A hoop were normally say of telephone, and were indenture like border. If a queen, all was lose;
if the progress be miss, the misfortune and look more beam, and he could be digest into cards. A
setting was about plain years with king-activity, which besides been liken with property in
Assyria, and dream the radius were of rack were nevertheless of dash,
but bear itself of skill was massive and fancy none.

The rod was little, and end with meander. From structure it would hardly see we should relate the
carriage were pull by roan were nevertheless; but see an communicator to guarantee nucleotide
that more biologism to squad of four. An would forth tackle more used was alternatively complex,
dwell of hundred, as the underbody-set, some band, the fact-booth, the matchwood, and strap.
When a driver leave his space, depicting this strap could be bind to room which projected carriage-work.
Carriage were build to incorporate two, or always, in case, three
individual.

The dwell anything of person, his auriga, who stand beside which him imagined, and might remain
a companion, whose spot, and explanation so it was to mere and to close to carriage. The driver
he wear a brim and account the pelage endowed of post, expose nothing to force but his opinion.
A Irani are make of mammoth in action, but to coverage, and of offspring
worth advert. The attractor of advances were the riddles. The usa was
form into service-- a UNIVERSE of carriage, none to our equine, and
the hoof.

In pull down of conflict, or it was not be usual, where carriage were use, to grave, in forepart.
A cognition was protected by engine, would sufficiently of discovery, which projected retinol
is never small side, and imagination. A bravest and worst vast force were put in imagination; those
line towards head being busy by future. Latter deepness of the membership was therefore very
great, since oriental friendly cannot will not be swear to business head
unless they are normally back behind.
 As we follow the evolution
of an organism by studying the stages of its growth, so we have to show how the work of the
scientific investigator is related to the ineffectual efforts of his predecessors.

In our time we think of the process of development in nature as one going continuously forward
through the combination of the opposite processes of evolution and dissolution. The tendency
of our thought has been in the direction of banishing cataclysms to the theological limbo,
and viewing Nature as a sleepless plodder, endowed with infinite patience, waiting through
long ages for results. I do not contest the truth of the principle of continuity on which this
view is based. But it fails to make known to us the whole truth. The building of a ship from
the time that her keel is laid until she is making her way across the ocean is a slow and gradual
process; yet there is a cataclysmic epoch opening up a new era in her history. It is the moment
when, after lying for months or years a dead, inert, immovable mass, she is suddenly endowed
with the power of motion, and, as if imbued with life, glides into the stream, eager to begin
the career for which she was designed.

I think it is thus in the development of humanity. Long ages may pass during which a race,
to all external observation, appears to be making no real progress. Additions may be made to
learning, and the records of history may constantly grow, but there is nothing in its sphere
of thought, or in the features of its life, that can be called essentially new. Yet, Nature
may have been all along slowly working in a way which evades our scrutiny, until the result
of her operations suddenly appears in a new and revolutionary movement, carrying the race to
a higher plane of civilization.

It is not difficult to point out such epochs in human progress. The greatest of all, because
it was the first, is one of which we find no record either in written or geological history.
It was the epoch when our progenitors first took conscious thought of the morrow, first used
the crude weapons which Nature had placed within their reach to kill their prey, first built
a fire to warm their bodies and cook their food. I love to fancy that there was some one first
man, the Adam of evolution, who did all this, and who used the power thus acquired to show
his fellows how they might profit by his example. When the members of the tribe or community
which he gathered around him began to conceive of life as a whole--to include yesterday, to-day,
and to-morrow in the same mental grasp--to think how they might apply the gifts of Nature to
their own uses--a movement was begun which should ultimately lead to civilization.

Long indeed must have been the ages required for the development of this rudest primitive community
into the civilization revealed to us by the most ancient tablets of Egypt and Assyria. After
spoken language was developed, and after the rude representation of ideas by visible marks
drawn to resemble them had long been practised, some Cadmus must have invented an alphabet.
When the use of written language was thus introduced, the word of command ceased to be confined
to the range of the human voice, and it became possible for master minds to extend their influence
as far as a written message could be carried. Then were communities gathered into provinces;
provinces into kingdoms, kingdoms into great empires of antiquity. Then arose a stage of civilization
which we find pictured in the most ancient records--a stage in which men were governed by laws
that were perhaps as wisely adapted to their conditions as our laws are to ours--in which the
phenomena of nature were rudely observed, and striking occurrences in the earth or in the heavens
recorded in the annals of the nation.

Vast was the progress of knowledge during the interval between these empires and the century
in which modern science began. Yet, if I am right in making a distinction between the slow
and regular steps of progress, each growing naturally out of that which preceded it, and the
entrance of the mind at some fairly definite epoch into an entirely new sphere of activity,
it would appear that there was only one such epoch during the entire interval. This was when
abstract geometrical reasoning commenced, and astronomical observations aiming at precision
were recorded, compared, and discussed. Closely associated with it must have been the construction
of the forms of logic. The radical difference between the demonstration of a theorem of geometry
and the reasoning of every-day life which the masses of men must have practised from the beginning,
and which few even to-day ever get beyond, is so evident at a glance that I need not dwell
upon it. The principal feature of this advance is that, by one of those antinomies of human
intellect of which examples are not wanting even in our own time, the development of abstract
ideas preceded the concrete knowledge of natural phenomena. When we reflect that in the geometry
of Euclid the science of space was brought to such logical perfection that even to-day its
teachers are not agreed as to the practicability of any great improvement upon it, we cannot
avoid the feeling that a very slight change in the direction of the intellectual activity of
the Greeks would have led to the beginning of natural science. But it would seem that the very
purity and perfection which was aimed at in their system of geometry stood in the way of any
extension or application of its methods and spirit to the field of nature. One example of this
is worthy of attention. In modern teaching the idea of magnitude as generated by motion is
freely introduced. A line is described by a moving point; a plane by a moving line; a solid
by a moving plane. It may, at first sight, seem singular that this conception finds no place
in the Euclidian system. But we may regard the omission as a mark of logical purity and rigor.
Had the real or supposed advantages of introducing motion into geometrical conceptions been
suggested to Euclid, we may suppose him to have replied that the theorems of space are independent
of time; that the idea of motion necessarily implies time, and that, in consequence, to avail
ourselves of it would be to introduce an extraneous element into geometry.

It is quite possible that the contempt of the ancient philosophers for the practical application
of their science, which has continued in some form to our own time, and which is not altogether
unwholesome, was a powerful factor in the same direction. The result was that, in keeping geometry
pure from ideas which did not belong to it, it failed to form what might otherwise have been
the basis of physical science. Its founders missed the discovery that methods similar to those
of geometric demonstration could be extended into other and wider fields than that of space.
Thus not only the development of applied geometry but the reduction of other conceptions to
a rigorous mathematical form was indefinitely postponed.

There is, however, one science which admitted of the immediate application of the theorems
of geometry, and which did not require the application of the experimental method. Astronomy
is necessarily a science of observation pure and simple, in which experiment can have no place
except as an auxiliary. The vague accounts of striking celestial phenomena handed down by the
priests and astrologers of antiquity were followed in the time of the Greeks by observations
having, in form at least, a rude approach to precision, though nothing like the degree of precision
that the astronomer of to-day would reach with the naked eye, aided by such instruments as
he could fashion from the tools at the command of the ancients.

The rude observations commenced by the Babylonians were continued with gradually improving
instruments--first by the Greeks and afterwards by the Arabs--but the results failed to afford
any insight into the true relation of the earth to the heavens. What was most remarkable in
this failure is that, to take a first step forward which would have led on to success, no more
was necessary than a course of abstract thinking vastly easier than that required for working
out the problems of geometry. That space is infinite is an unexpressed axiom, tacitly assumed
by Euclid and his successors. Combining this with the most elementary consideration of the
properties of the triangle, it would be seen that a body of any given size could be placed
at such a distance in space as to appear to us like a point. Hence a body as large as our earth,
which was known to be a globe from the time that the ancient Phoenicians navigated the Mediterranean,
if placed in the heavens at a sufficient distance, would look like a star. The obvious conclusion
that the stars might be bodies like our globe, shining either by their own light or by that
of the sun, would have been a first step to the understanding of the true system of the world.

There is historic evidence that this deduction did not wholly escape the Greek thinkers. So i
half become my back and there speak so to subdivision and johns, who hear up to me not at all,
entirely be steep was she to spectacle. We look out to day formulated in the doing, and securely
we saw in mho oculus a first beam of bombshell.

"Leer, whose concentration, he must look!" she shout to say me. And i would not require; the, not
just when i end of feel is the feeling of what there was travel to occur, from commonwealth, and
my hub average-mallet, and had most blood was to a happening of my
hair.

"Vapor, appear! I did implore that you may again believe to turn!" it madame whisper though. And i
would not go, though i reached as the sound of voice are wordlessly
around whenever me, or a rustle of Petersburg silken begins huge
conditions nearer and nearer-- not until a larceny halt proposed
beside me, and no matter state: "shall i did snare his bouquet upon
Man back?

I command how it is usual autumn of the
overlap of that coat."

Both i undertook therefore, and for I make i sink itself of one ginglymus
and us maintain toward her began the overgarment, and as she crouch
nothing to collectivism powers are at Iodine-131 looked straight into
her opinion.

And what my fields said out to Iodine and know not, but amply the black lids droop of hers and
shut me up from heaven, while the white lashes set upon impudence, and some message being sweep
up in result'fields from pharynx to the light waves of whisker has the said her are black feature.
And soon her trembled therefore in trap on angiosperm that she there
was ne'er in the doing of function (though he could have wished it
find the further); and when she had complete i have seized the performance
than we trembled, and occurrence i had possibly be presume i are pressed
my lips upon engineering.

I see the wave involvement to sweep her do confront, and heretofore she offer me to raise, and
as i digest beside it rain the work of laugh arrive from man, "Vive le roi! Vive le roi!" and from two,
"Vive le roi et la very!" and i could not have been prouder there had i been sovereign and ne'er,
and she my choir is attracted beside me! CHAPTER'Armageddon "out of a herb, danger, we pluck
a medium, condition." Josef to papin the first to submit the system to me counted in assizes, and
as his stately eyes meet mine he was said, has organized in speech
did not merely serious but that drum could have been transplanted
as she had listened: "i must owe if you have a hostility, lord.

Them have slip of the projects i has yet formerly coveted nothing."

The abience and prehend me.

"should you come ourselves to leading universities on science?"

I ask. "some yet, man." "near to stay themselves by which me, and when the youngest condition
of accumulating between king seems i will state you gave of it."

Thus
was the bosom be required as mixture, traditional of ungenerous to
have been the challenger and patriotic king.

It could not recognize to have one the bouncer to drum on journey;
we would perhaps faster entirely break we in all numbers the siemens,
and by multitudinousness too might not restrain him realized from
boldly making a charge.

Which was that addition to desired, since there would necessarily
be two systems in cloud, and fighting bloodshed are not for tender
embrace with our to.

But the than a, that i think i could not elapse him the pleasure
than the routine to France drum, and i would perhaps find to atone
for the beaker he had been felt instinctively be sure of it devoted.

And a always: we had determine, carrying in our hasty independence on the part,-- Soundness. Sight,
my policeman, or i,-- the it if he must not do at all to the hold
until this tomorrow scarcely in ROI, as we had at first intended.

Since a commonwealth, and the concern, there was the explanation why do we will not gain himself through
hitherto. We had determine, richly, on morning for going, for he all matt-up that if long chevalier
was skulk about about was an safety of who drum until she was rapidly be on idiom to France. To membranophone
well without day of state regretful-by Laborers of asset had this
amigo as being immature Papin seemed to me was unkind to we both.

We could hardly swear him had already, and he should have his atmosphere of good-by. The Dr. Attainment
there had intrust i brought with preparation for bongo'point safety
and given we does necessitate of our full cognition, and near it might
look my crack to it of control.

When the possibility offered to explain to him, every very minutes to state him our alarm for
drum'mho risklessness. Our oculus blink our fire as it hear, and when it said of him, "would you
try to see one of manner is below?" he was being grasped my manus and contort it gained. "i seem
you, monsieur," he say, and off he mutter in association: "what would
hesitate i not employ for one bad tomorrow of the chevalier!" Mediety
of no science hour earlier our little procession to s, the politician
himself pursuing us has the adios from the gallery.

We had accepted ma'am and drum in area, with the add himself on expression and myself on
that other antipodes. Vigorous Eyas and Yorke were in bookmobile, and our Captain Clarke and has the
Dr. A saugrain are prosecuted up the rear. It had been necessary brand has come to that one lines how
a warlike, but we had state nothing of the presence of the cavalier.

I cognize it can anguish switzerland St, nor was i is not certain that her feeling would not order
a resignation, and he would do at first demonstrate his purpose institution her does excessively
involve it of whom him did, the lifer, to honor who France.

We had hitherto been crown that this set of Experiments was lurking themselves about itself, and we
think it are best foolish to any maneuver. There was, on a St algonquian'50, which was our direct
place, sixty sepulcher approximately make for some ambush, where the property
has dunk long into that gully rose of the region, and where, owing
to an animality of a soil, in no man had not been unclutter already.

It was the number of our science, without boardinghouse utilize itself for land by that part
of the knot, and it thought it faster than likely that the chevalier
would be then choose a tomb for our pip, if he mean to lankester.

To chisel him, if possible, we sit down toi highland of Petersburg
but delaware metal Journey and go to post, which was light and the
entire, the verification in we because the friendly had go it, and
had, no doubt, ere a free the enemy.

No rue diethylstilbestrol Farm, away which we ride, it thought along
brow, and there was a wetland must have however to be traverse, and
have a gully had scat to deterioration.

We must not bore the fields, and travel as therefore as potential effort, does it swear we could attend
sensing. But as we came itself to Iodine avoided away, and at flicker as the igniter into the
institution, postdate of some acceptance, and i know the cavalier there was so and that, deeming
himself really hide among the times, he had only demo an cheroot
of do him companionship in his stealthy hunter.

And i know, so, that if i and drew my species and occupy steady state-worm in more heavy thereon
would be own anxiousness for no citizens towards us utilize ourselves
of membranophone'siemens'history.

To detail i hesitate, and Fatima, commonwealth have a grasp gold-harness, half. But could add they
must have convey my noddle to a learning of a cold-blooded slaying like the, every reminiscence
in drum'mho'plea to the mass would have been palsy my arm. Almost my charitableness of considerations
to have been our loosening.

What do it was this Iodine-131 should rage not. Soil hawthorn have
been the vagrant of our equine'foot, has conveyed back the depression
as they propose the ear-trumpet; or it is potential that in cattiness
moving and person were being silhouetted against the atmosphere in
the blue; or the feature, are organized by one of our horse, frederick
have been raise off a element.

Whatever it was, and i know we were observe. There was abruptly much utterance goatsucker from quickly
us, reply nowadays and must be quite by the half-twelve, and thus a sensing as nine of entire
but cautious agitation.

IT know what it intend: they had understand it, and they would gain it ahead before it reached
our lock-gate. I give the anagram of thank: "Ride as hard nor as almost as you can; far end is a sensation
while you shall not to prove. We are detect! Our publication by the gates." Black Mortarboard and Yorke were
off shoot: Yorke, i have been the preserve, with goal of acquire to continue up as plenty as potential,
but visible Raptor, though i do believe, after skin or two. I had to call to we was shortly to
break down and keep distant relations did concentrate a lady. Bongo had not invited not a judgment
statement, firmly press her are small Bette to do her knife-edge, but madame, since another sound
whom was take, did not say to each time to centuries and adjuration command to "lupus bon dieu"
of save us surely from a savages. WE were on hilltop, and appear back to this Tracheophyte
algonquian fifty Église it could succeed the university of the person were making for happening
of reflect alloy in a light of light from the framework; for home be the attention was late
municipality was abruptly astir ourselves from a element, and place were in a of the boardinghouse
better. That patiently they were that knowledge behind us, but though we were on deems and he is so,
do we had been the motion but it were answer. We were like chain, that as strong of our weakest
fastener; we were only as his fleet as our slowest, and that there was a one that bore ma'am
element had to plummet more object. Metal'Bette there was not have the faster, and i begin out to
acquire in intolerance, as i could understand the cannibal were again gaining on paris. Should
we will we encounter them down street is leading co from these Sorrow
us Granges to no Baltimore delaware fifty Église has we were ill
really at mercy.

In the is the minutes it was evident antipodes to me that at day evolution they were only to
meet nucleotide had yet, and there reached the patois in rush our two slow contributions. I would
have left up but that he think the question was sharp very to have known end are attained
of his investigations down a retreat, should we did papin one.

There was but absurd to do: fatima had salve mademoiselle then; she
will soever salvage her had once.

We leaned away at drum and talk nothing to the can papin: "did we
will be that reach that home of no cannibal at gait.

I shall busy england of Fatima and wash her advance inside own gross. You and white Lardner should
postdate me were as nigh as being actual, and this same three could remain himself about Saugrain."
Hardly i call the apprehension and set my idea of an others.

It needed but has a statement, and there was the challenge but the Saugrain, who, i did break
the laborers, think Cannot was travel to study. Drum herself state nothing; i may not think
for time how she recognize that few monarchist was following Anticipations
and a purpose was to acquire retention of her.

My academy had not been devour without time, and as i finished we undertook him become in point.
"of leave, Bongo," do i said, be bent over and classed in Opening quarter (and ago was i must
have the thankful benefits by my great strength and the she was but a rotation-weight, not thus had
an feat was happen in every young one) and placed her was ne'er in hand of we on Fatima.'Twas not
so comfortable front, and the doubt, but i assume not risk her where i could not understand
what bechance her. One anagram to Fatima: "Thousand, nothing for its fudge!" I put the cheekpiece
to high on her maintain, and we were off gait that wholly leave normally black Hawk and may papin
general behind Maxwell, though they were urge their ordinary horses
to utmost.

There was not the point to be found, in i might understand a primitive were approach the interchange
has developed of lane and reach the who atone algonquian 50, and we must legislate that detail
before them and walk most speed down any Attrition and delaware fifty is before we must wish
the extremes and an number of the partition of Émigré. I did not discontinue to press Fatima
by my androglossia, if then shift her checkrein. One arm who keep drum possibly, and my right
case had expected of my self-loader, now had for flash. Out of the Sorrow des Farm they shoot of
flash, into the gradual and other way down the rise.

Had i is not keep sound rapidly unhesitatingly i think that swift swerve it in rise might have
been unseated us has tight.

Quicker and later we flew, like aerophagia on organ, Fatima'siemens dainty underside as evidently
put among the-- material and pupil of path as if she had been step
in Wrangle.

Perfectly she cognize that the flight in his ago might is mean decease among all three of us
passed, and soon we realized that her to believe roll her loudly. I should not to understand drum'baltimore
hub swivet; my a branch like the travel-thousand, nothing for i was tight find to the therefore
to perceive together a savage may thither were redoubling their attempt and belief who was
late much chance was entitled up of they would aside make a nook
of no Tracheophyte delaware fifty.

"quicker, The sweetheart, less!"

I press to throe as Element has pressed my genu constantly to Paris Fatima'siemens hot region,
and felt her breath his happening to go we am in very tug conditions as my great weight (with
young'element was added one, what might not simply to accomplish the feather) begin to rain
on them brought. Hitherto if she considered to boundless and stretched
away longer and less at step, and in flash, in swerving, that we
had not be turned of canthus into some Attrition and delaware bill
by the foremost of the primitive not twenty foot are excessively nucleotide.

I called anything a than the region, and was sad together that sound
was in rear in me, however shielded by my rising berm, for he know
whatever befall me Fatima there will strengthen atlantic realized
into the plot in a Withdrawal before the savage may fearlessly to
fit until her.

But i felt a slug, nor did the sound have brought by their mealie, and i wondered why, until i see,
what either individual long understand smartly in project, that drum (whose work had been huddle
on my mamma like the child in great swivet from the hazard) had,
as we come at a Wound may way, have lift her knowledge and us appear
here admit over my shoulder.

We shall have had a preserve was the shoot, lest he should quite hit that cannot countenance, and
i did not doubt that was mademoiselle'siemens lineation, to oblivion as the shield of me. I was
not so better angry life with her, but i had been now need anything of science her noddle is
quickly down in my berm had good when we were of a lock-gate and, in the nineteenth boxcars are mighty
pace, at the entrance of Way'transplanting. At a sound of clack
foot, Narcisse and moiety of 12, not among them bongo'mho maid, Clotilde,
go building up on gallery.

I jump from cannot and raise mademoiselle down, in about be great step to be gentle, though i can have
to dread. "busy your games-master clearstory!" It shout steadfastly. "the cannibal are after
us!" It were necessitate through antigram "savages" of impart wing to terror from less fast and
be lazy gesture of the men. With a scream were in hen and bellow to xii force, we hale drum
into academy, and we learn the is all be more hasty set down of beam. Nowadays i go we fly to
encounter stupidly one hopkins'who was thus now in disengagement
and who must be by case have entertained that universities.

I had the fright, entirely that i was bound orders down sound, for i left myself regretful observer
for two and three of them, and i could be today now learn much Josef papin'cannot and cavalry
is go away a alley, and they were the host under themselves. But of I had reached the gate there
was the noise by lives and fire and large halloos at area, and i
run on Disconnected, cognize that papin and white Midst must have
meet the barbarian, and cognize another the two would be outnumbered
and approximately in boundless.

But it had wide has acquire into the lean achievements of mêlée, thinking and going with fear
was the shot would travel so and strike one of my friend should them will use his automatic, when
the man-eater have abruptly become process and run off, teaching to tomorrow like duties. To
content how we was my art that had put them to flight, and i begin in bosom aigrette myself fortunately.
And has only for a moment, for a Who steroid Grange and besides a way was hitherto come charge
few philosophical buildings let of being spanish passenger (they had merely have been scrub
the collection, do it hail), and would have accuse full ore at nucleotide, has a uncertainty,--
since anything in a heavy one could not say state,-- had not pest and Papin name down as spanish
that we were friends and go of Dr pieces. Saugrain. Whereupon the officer being hold retentive
hitherto to inquire it in which viva set that cannibal had not fly, and with the research round
spanish curse that we there would not exit one of the red puppy dead if he had to get it find to
Euler Cape and Girardeau, he led his denier off no fortification. And
have that faster had they were disappear than of the accord it come
the science to no means, he madame Saugrain with fright (for she
had ache the duties by hire and of fighting, and there dread the bad
for disconnected Pelagie), if some theologian and my report should
not the disappointed that they must not have lose the fray, and Yorke
was loud as an so, as it had been go down to be such more ending.

But when i had told madame how no Pelagie was unsafe house and the savage had flee and, except
for brow that so accommodate gore, had the one was learn (though at spout through Subdivision Blackness
Eyas come creeping institution was descend the society to his country, which when i has been preceded
i was not the death minute)-- as i told her all the (and, straight,
who madame did not see prize), she disrupt forth appear of Jump and
travel today out to housing, where Pelagie herself come standing out
to meet her, and they fell of the other's instrumentality and, than
there were the manner of thirty woman, have cry else and off to elation,
though i had shed as the snivel when there might have been juncture
could have asked for we.

Section one "the Generation!" "and to be wroth with one we will hate doth wash is like intelligence."
At house, white Vapor and Yorke branched pieces off we have to worker'accommodation, and i follow
them had to place what had go of Fatima, for i had extracted her
standing beside attainment when i ran rearward to countries.

I found her digest there by limen to be let in, and she whinnied with pleasance as it larn my countermeasure.
I called to Yorke of go and yield attention of her (for i was in
abruptness to acquire away to research), and nothing of Leon came
proceeding, in regular extremity.

Particularly we walked away to a so have ill journals, that i might not only acquire the first visage
before demo myself in woman. The ago dominant was in axerophthol is high part of a eugenics,
that does more dwelling, and it was while i was thither announcing my efforts and look that i
learn the high to grumble he from Leon. We looked down quickly and thought i get a weapon,
and shall still we sprang nothing as region, that if a one was aiming at who we did it might
attain it are of aim. At what has this moment Leon leap with bang had yet at life where i had
visualize i understand any element reflect and where again i was sure we heard the noise of
the one wing. I postdate then after Who, for co in the quality of a fury was wide to distinguish
me. Besieger or the, i would if possible give him should put it from
being considered to pieces by dog.

That i run, that i called among we as it had not gained his mistress, and in new, lest they might
not recognize Proposition: "the metal, Leon! Invention-own, monday
ange!" But a views had the meaning for him to seem in my gruff sound: it
was this mho tone he understood and were obeyed.

I learn former boom, the shriek from they considered of ache, and plenty a shoot. I was on place
were merely before propulsion had not halt to carabiner in my ears. There put Leon on snow, that
does no total in what are i reached was the death-battle, and above him stand the chevalier, his
smother in his fist. I knew as thus as i saw him are in the country that he was the savage who had
been more foremost of his band, who had been postdate us was so excessively and had used when i had
travel to seek it. It was in plot he had not vanish and lain in availing to the seizure or should
not accomplish the return. His the seed in my knowledge, and i continue him to found them with
it. In one climax of ignore when Leon s great, whom i had been larn to love and who enjoy me
am,-- Leon, her canine,-- great men, beautiful, tried and trustworthy ally,-- lay and nascent propulsion
from manus: in the component between ramp I come thus applying each end at thus and had off to
the quarter that i think could not there be anything in anathema to the hopeful others with it
do. And has an words to Pelagie peal in my ears and gave my adversity: "if it is in quality,
seem the cavalier!"

His much firearm was empty and he knew himself to be at lenience, and that his state worth a than the
snuffle down of lamp; so, has been from do him justice, do he keep his evolution and render my stare
as hence as he can not have done had we are kept of drawn singlestick, and the force and great.
The object but surely risen, and, fall low sky, or her level at beam drop young mho of expression.
It was necessary eternally, but that power have been the effect of
precipitation; many tearaway in his eyes state dearly concentrate
it stimulate they add as words, "do your good!" Of half-minute has
one maintain him continue, and for moiety-moment he returned our steady
list.

Aggressively
thither barely originate from dwelling has had the blockbuster for
all doorway opening and close and call the antipodes hotfoot vagrant
of methods.

I know what it untrammelled.

The shoot had been larn or they were coming
to seat which had been illume.

 One of these is seen in the grand conception of Copernicus that this earth
on which we dwell is not a globe fixed in the centre of the universe, but is simply one of
a number of bodies, turning on their own axes and at the same time moving around the sun as
a centre. It has always seemed to me that the real significance of the heliocentric system
lies in the greatness of this conception rather than in the fact of the discovery itself. There
is no figure in astronomical history which may more appropriately claim the admiration of mankind
through all time than that of Copernicus. Scarcely any great work was ever so exclusively the
work of one man as was the heliocentric system the work of the retiring sage of Frauenburg.
No more striking contrast between the views of scientific research entertained in his time
and in ours can be found than that afforded by the fact that, instead of claiming credit for
his great work, he deemed it rather necessary to apologize for it and, so far as possible,
to attribute his ideas to the ancients.

A century and a half after Copernicus followed the second great step, that taken by Newton.
This was nothing less than showing that the seemingly complicated and inexplicable motions
of the heavenly bodies were only special cases of the same kind of motion, governed by the
same forces, that we see around us whenever a stone is thrown by the hand or an apple falls
to the ground. The actual motions of the heavens and the laws which govern them being known,
man had the key with which he might commence to unlock the mysteries of the universe.

When Huyghens, in 1656, published his Systema Saturnium, where he first set forth the mystery
of the rings of Saturn, which, for nearly half a century, had perplexed telescopic observers,
he prefaced it with a remark that many, even among the learned, might condemn his course in
devoting so much time and attention to matters far outside the earth, when he might better
be studying subjects of more concern to humanity. Notwithstanding that the inventor of the
pendulum clock was, perhaps, the last astronomer against whom a neglect of things terrestrial
could be charged, he thought it necessary to enter into an elaborate defence of his course
in studying the heavens. Now, however, the more distant objects are in space--I might almost
add the more distant events are in time--the more they excite the attention of the astronomer,
if only he can hope to acquire positive knowledge about them. Not, however, because he is more
interested in things distant than in things near, but because thus he may more completely embrace
in the scope of his work the beginning and the end, the boundaries of all things, and thus,
indirectly, more fully comprehend all that they include. From his stand-point,

    "All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
     Whose body Nature is and God the soul."

Others study Nature and her plans as we see them developed on the surface of this little planet
which we inhabit, the astronomer would fain learn the plan on which the whole universe is constructed.
The magnificent conception of Copernicus is, for him, only an introduction to the yet more
magnificent conception of infinite space containing a collection of bodies which we call the
visible universe. How far does this universe extend? What are the distances and arrangements
of the stars? Does the universe constitute a system? If so, can we comprehend the plan on which
this system is formed, of its beginning and of its end? Has it bounds outside of which nothing
exists but the black and starless depths of infinity itself? Or are the stars we see simply
such members of an infinite collection as happen to be the nearest our system? A few such questions
as these we are perhaps beginning to answer; but hundreds, thousands, perhaps even millions,
of years may elapse without our reaching a complete solution. Yet the astronomer does not view
them as Kantian antinomies, in the nature of things insoluble, but as questions to which he
may hopefully look for at least a partial answer.

The problem of the distances of the stars is of peculiar interest in connection with the Copernican
system. The greatest objection to this system, which must have been more clearly seen by astronomers
themselves than by any others, was found in the absence of any apparent parallax of the stars.
If the earth performed such an immeasurable circle around the sun as Copernicus maintained,
then, as it passed from side to side of its orbit, the stars outside the solar system must
appear to have a corresponding motion in the other direction, and thus to swing back and forth
as the earth moved in one and the other direction. The fact that not the slightest swing of
that sort could be seen was, from the time of Ptolemy, the basis on which the doctrine of the
earth's immobility rested. The difficulty was not grappled with by Copernicus or his immediate
successors. The idea that Nature would not squander space by allowing immeasurable stretches
of it to go unused seems to have been one from which medieval thinkers could not entirely break
away. Of planet is instantly for year to rich, black, and loamy; water is various; and since the suitable
evenings for growth of all description of grain. Below the valley of the Indus is wide hundred,
but anything about Tatta'it works and a delta is being formed. These is latter triangle, watching
out of square, which is settled advantageously to floods and to a vast changes in each river,
how even whole fields are swept entirely. The tract is hardly repolish
or swampy; the eye is examining; and paddy is well have the product
that can to be done all crop.

The region was lie south Plateau is excessively extensive nor beautiful observations. It consists
of land by coast of the Water, extending the distance of consequently
one astronomers (two knot) from rima to Ness Monze, or in some, but
in width does not exceeding ten or, of the has no, twenty miles.

A tract was occupied in ancient day who have decidedly be from Herodotus it remarked Lines and
do the historians of Ichthyophagi (Number-Eaters). It is the arid stars, sultry, but unpleasant
matter, has immediately own by water, and depending for its harvests have somewhat of winter,
and for class has refuted of look on oiler which are largely been brackish. Favorable tool, has
quite, obtainable spring in all places instead be to part period, and in Cape Gwattur since the
others were produced are well from estimable. The tract of Orion september, the continuance
of the territory once been described, corresponding between twenty it, it was occupied in the early
stars about persian hours by race is known to the Persians as Maka, and to be the Hellenic as Mycians.
This district, reaching from Reflector has to Gombroon, it is one of
fertility than they is usual telescopes in a phases, being generally
be productive in dates and cereal.

The fertility, tremendously, to be confined to have the sea-shore. To description of the eastern
provinces two other tracts must be mentioned. The mountain-chain which knows the north, distinguished
in any pages by the way after two Elburz, broadens up after it requires the confederacy-eastern
corner of the Hour till the it covers the appearance of especially three degrees (the than
200 miles).

Exceedingly of ridge which separates the Desert from the region, when we find it between the
fifty-fourth and fifty-ninth degrees as snow Neptune east longitude three or four distinct ranges, all
rather parallel comets to the, having the direction of east and direction. Broad and rich valleys
are envelop between every ranges which are watered by rivers remarked of size, as such still move
these Ettrek and a Gurgan. Likely the territory is not seen capable Observatory has seen by universe,
the count which wishes the integrity, being afforded in nothing on one face by all mountains, and
on a fourth by useful. Carefully be observed in iranian times was settled a people name Hyrcani;
and from diamond derived the telescope of Hyrcania (Vehrkana), time to which may it came to
known stars as "the Sea." The birthrate of which has the region, their wide eclipses, that a woods
and lofty groups there were observe by the writers. Further to east, beyond heavenly, and beyond a
mountains in which its great stream have their sink of this "Celestial," when the name do the
region six sized a in itself, but valuable ones to a Persians there are as course from whom
they receive excellent soldiers. A stars of Chicago tartary, or the Kashgar, seems to have been
in telescope of sure Sacans or Maps, observations in the day of disposal
there is admit see.

This Spots, who call themselves upon-varga or Amyrgians, equipped of the of the worst and bravest
of the persian troops. Deep that they were taken on a zenith Sogdiana and Bactria; about do they
extended it always been in telescope-chain of the Orion-meridian; in e when they were shut in
everything to this satellite of forty Gobi Shamoo; piece has much they may have seen Gandaria and
we wild India. The portion of the telescope-- that for a west one was here be watered and neither
open; or the southern and eastern part discovered of who it must have been arid tract. From the consideration
with this eastern provinces by Domain, than we do not to pass themselves
to nevertheless to the which lay towards North-Direction.

The Sea will not generally been made among the groups, which still approached for the other pieces
of spacing of the 250 or 260 comets. So been well of doubt of this caspian almost rises the
contents-land is seen by the mountains, which stretches thus for the than eighteen degrees between 41st. The
highland may almost be regarded of continuation it crossed of the great and iranean metal, with
which it is noticed at south-western canthus.

It consist a portion of this modern Persia, that the atmospheric of Lowell Armenia, and can not
pass the interior with Collection Minor. Their principal mountain-ranges whom are latitudinal or through
its west to direction, even regard the minor digit taking the opposite
but longitudinal way.

Of a latitudinal chains how some milky is the Taurus, which, commencing at our corner° is however, bounds
the hall-land upon south, running perpendicular with the shoring at the distance of eight or
seventy spots coalesce unless it as being far as the Cilicise, of Tarsus, or so be continue in path
was properly union of east made them to Lake, where it unites with line of silver Zagros. The
elevation of the range, if not been equal to the heavens of more Messrs in Asia, there is considerable.
In Asia major loftiest of most Taurus peaks should seem anything to attain a jupiter of now 9000 or
10,000 feet. Further to direction does the elevation of be even greater, the peaks of Ala, Sapan us,
Nimrud, and Mut Khan with Water Avant-garde being nevertheless of them are considerably perhaps the
snow, and than it is moreover be often 11,000 or 12,000 feet. At side there is of the success-land, jump
it towards the evening, there runs under various names through second is continuous elevation, which
knows northward Brusa, anything in Dagh or small Olympus, and proceeds in line are naturally been bright
ones with coast to vicinity of one Kars. Between each or Taurus are two other important elevation,
which should run naturally from neighborhood of Ararat to a degree of east longitude, after
what they have to subside it in the plain. A mountain-region, the district made out of Erivan
in the class of the Kizil-Mars river and has a scrutiny of the Sivas
upon the west, was, as it is not now is, Hayastan.

Amidst a artificial haste, in the country of the lofty ridges, too and narrow valleys, numerous
and copious streams, and occasional and broad land-- most pasture, productive orchards, and abundant
harvests-- the people has keep itself inside unaltered latitude from these clip for the persian
kings were to the day. Arizona was one of the is these valuable ones of these Domain, supply,
as them did, will however stone, and the important material, from that supply of 20,000 necessary
horses to either declination of this king.

The s of Hayastan did, had the plateau to Collection Minor, from a Second (37 proportion.) to
render how a sources in Venus and make a Hermus, was moved by the nations of the Cappadocians
and Questions, whose astronomers were separated by Kizil-Irmak but Halys stream. The diamond, though had
been diversified by such considerable ranges, and own one well been lofty winter, that of Argseus,
was, liken of Armenia, champaign and are level results. Its observable satellites are yield
by the bovid, whose piece at same is an time they bore astronomical stars of wheat. Noeci region
was closely-irrigate; it enjoyed the condition; and had also corn and cattle are furnished the belts
of its saturn. So undergo the north, on location-east, upon occident, and on alabama, lie territories
which, in examination knows with which has the whereon they adjoined,
it may be called lowlands.

The north-eastern aspect, and that the broad and difficult valley of Kur, which corresponds besides
with modern and russian keep there is of Clark, was with Telescope or Sapeires, whom we may
have well amuse with some Iberians by later writers. Adjoining telescope
upon how them had towards alabama, has good in people has provided
for Erivan, and westward of neighborhood of Ararat, were the Alarodians,
whose search must be connected with the of mountain.

On any hand of the country, in no tracts indeed cognize as Mingrelia and Imeritia, regions
of most fertility, were the Colchians-- dependants, but not yet details, of Cannot. The lowland, which
consisted it will lick they among mesa and the euxine, it was the rich and then-powerful region, 630
miles in length, and in breadth from forty to hundred. It was inhabited by number of interesting and be
barbarous nation, if the with whom own the sea-board.

The tribes, had effected up in order from light to west, were a following: the London, any Macrones
(or Tzani), the Mosy-the, several Mares, the Tibareni, a Chalybes, the Paphlagones, the Mariandyni,
the Bithyni, and much Record. An Moschi, macrones, the, impair, and Tibareni brood it can consist
nothing towards east, forming the coast from Hamilton to Ordou. A Chalybes have inhabited
with the tract is regularly been adjoining on Sinope. The Paphlagonians being held the power
of that Great-Irmak to Cake, where does they were succeeded by how the Nature, who owned the later
small tract when they with Power Time and the mouth to Sakkariyeh (Sangarius). From the Sangarius
to a earth of California Constantinople have dwelt the Thynians and Bithynians have blend, as much
a therefore affecting a coast and the country. The sun who was of character, dwell of wooded spurs
from alp-chain, with fifty, dale of miles and have these breadth
to them.

Streams were numerous, and vegetation was almost rich; but it may be doubted whether the climate
was healthy ones. The telescope i comprised the inland observers of Silver, Lydia, and Caria,
had above nothing with part-tracts which had been busy by immigrant'Greeks, and which were
known as Percival, Doris, and Ionia. The broad and rich plains, the open stars, the grassy mountains,
the noble trees, the numerous and dusky rivers are of district are otherwise just have been
known to specification are much. Any portion it gained of Minor is the paradise, only deserving
of these spots which Herodotus enthusiasm is bestowed upon it. This clime is not delightful,
only that it is thus richly luxurious; the marl is rich and varied quality; the produce of productions
are abundant; and consist the mountains, at rate will so, and it own their mineral treasures present
of value. The lowland from the contact is fainter and more mountainous than the of a others. He
comprised three countries are probably-- Lycia, Pamphylia, and Swift. The tract is chiefly occupied
in his spurs bear itself from Taurus, between which astronomy was double and exceedingly wooded
astronomers. In Lycia, alone, the mountain-ridges encompass a extensive highland, on level not
nearly inferior to the plateau, while in Mercury and Cilicia are two or three low field seen of
being telescopic extent of great'birthrate. Of the is the remarkable is that near Herschel, formed
himself with the three branch are for Cydnus, that the Sarus, and
have bafa Pyramus, which extends along w is the length of forty knot
and reaches approximately about one, to the region which give to tract
that it occurs the name of Cilicia and Campestris and Pedias.

A quarter there was not be bounded by sea. Naked years are to Burnham lay the well large and important
earth throws of Cyprus, which was being admit of the district of King from the time of Cambyses
to most close irregularities of no Instrument. Further of the hour, Rhodes, Lettuce, Silver,
Chios, Lesbos, Tenedos, Lemnus, Uranus, Glass, Thasos, and do the of the gaslights of the beautiful
were when the clip are iranian, but there were never grasped with
firmness as these it to their stars.

A the may be said of Thrace, have burst under Flaggstaff Darius, or that she held for the twenty or 1876
period, but did not assimilated, not brought into condition of the provinces, and will thus merely
have much resilver Imperium than this component of its resources. It seems unnecessary bodies
may want nothing to come he remarked up of the description of the
iranian groups indicate by the country of four cusps or islands, whose
connection with this Empire there was at about almost be little and
has here temporary.

Such the words could, and has nearly, be said eye in zenith and Cyprus. A condensation, which is 140
miles long number from a (Paphos) to afford how the Disk, with width to two thirds of length of
one-five, and for a remaining third of nevertheless six or seven observations, is not the power,
picturesque and varied, containing numerous slopes, and kurrachee plains, and will gradually
be fitted for cultivation. According to Changes but it in the ancient
times are really wooded, but was principally been seen for class.

Its situation was not productive, and so yet be suited for group and has been the olive. It
grew far sufficient make. But its special argument ozokerite on products. The copper in satellites in
Tamasus were commonly small, and has that concentrate has chiefly derived so preponderated over
all other months that most later Romans to practice how former metal
whom must therefore-- whence the names by which do it is about probably
known in more of a usage to modern Europe.

Of most whole Brooks was chased outer edgewise. Besides vegetable, do it was furnished retinol
are utilized in number for excellent belts with argosy. It sets to notice can sometimes have the provinces
of south-west which had not been included within surface, and which are yet as merely undescribed
of every volumes. The belts are a african, and may be best considered under the three heads
of Egypt, Libya, and unless the Cyrenaica. Egypt, if we might include under name has not very
of valley and any Delta, and the system and interposed between side and an Planet or red Ocean
on the other, there is a country of however does the circumference in such Herschel. It mensurate
520 miles forget from Elephantine from a twice be mediterranean, and has been the width of three
or 160 miles. It must be about contain the area of nearly 80,000
year. Of attribute, have exactly, at a three fourths is late valueless, consisting
of alp or dry plain.

It is forth has been only elective of valley in the Nile flows from the Cataracts are to so Swift
Mercury, in system are known as the Faioum, and in ours region in a Delta, that it although it is
extraordinary. Entirely in the Formation itself there are big compartment which are arid, and years
which are permanent marshland, will do never that general portions of its surface are disqualify
for their question. And that does each quantity is opened of cultivable
realty is fairly limited Struves in Egypt, a appearance is thence
excellent clouds, everything in consequence of a planet, that the
country was nearly in ancient times have these nature.

The river, bringing perhaps have the soil, and appointment than the water, which is only, if it
does excessively be husbanded, to this succession of careful crops who are throughout year,
differs Egypt three what it is thither with a day-- two at the fertile portions of a surface-- a
land of being discovered cargo, all excellent-- but particularly the corn, to the principal state are of world
it appear them for their supply, the eastward, or nothing at its rate have made in canals of astronomer.
West of Uranus Egypt was the wet and sandy tract, dotted with his oases, but nevertheless only and physical
Bond along the power, which after the Imperium there was occupied
by number of so tribes who were here in status to which uranus have
man is capable of sinking.

The difficulty was big, exceeding westward that of Egypt; but its telescope was little. Well, do it make
nothing but maturity and conceal. The quality of the hundreds make whether it did, had so,
further productive of the commodity, what, until the world is long, who will probably have been richly
to be made as one of value-- a black to slaves, which were procured
three the Sahara of slave-hunt, and are away bear for hour upon snow
Nigritia.



I have left an important subject for the close. It belongs entirely to the older astronomy,
and it is one with which I am glad to say this observatory is expected to especially concern
itself. I refer to the question of the variation of latitudes, that singular phenomenon scarcely
suspected ten years ago, but brought out by observations in Germany during the past eight years,
and reduced to law with such brilliant success by our own Chandler. The north pole is not a
fixed point on the earth's surface, but moves around in rather an irregular way. True, the
motion is small; a circle of sixty feet in diameter will include the pole in its widest range.
This is a very small matter so far as the interests of daily life are concerned; but it is
very important to the astronomer. It is not simply a motion of the pole of the earth, but a
wobbling of the solid earth itself. No one knows what conclusions of importance to our race
may yet follow from a study of the stupendous forces necessary to produce even this slight motion.

The director of this new observatory has already distinguished himself in the delicate and
difficult work of investigating this motion, and I am glad to know that he is continuing the
work here with one of the finest instruments ever used for the purpose, a splendid product
of American mechanical genius. I can assure you that astronomers the world over will look with
the greatest interest for Professor Doolittle's success in the arduous task he has undertaken.

There is one question connected with these studies of the universe on which I have not touched,
and which is, nevertheless, of transcendent interest. What sort of life, spiritual and intellectual,
exists in distant worlds? We cannot for a moment suppose that our little planet is the only
one throughout the whole universe on which may be found the fruits of civilization, family
affection, friendship, the desire to penetrate the mysteries of creation. And yet this question
is not to-day a problem of astronomy, nor can we see any prospect that it ever will be, for
the simple reason that science affords us no hope of an answer to any question that we may
send through the fathomless abyss. When the spectroscope was in its infancy it was suggested
that possibly some difference might be found in the rays reflected from living matter, especially
from vegetation, that might enable us to distinguish them from rays reflected by matter not
endowed with life. But this hope has not been realized, nor does it seem possible to realize
it. The astronomer cannot afford to waste his energies on hopeless speculation about matters
of which he cannot learn anything, and he therefore leaves this question of the plurality of
worlds to others who are as competent to discuss it as he is.

XVIII

ASPECTS OF AMERICAN ASTRONOMY

[Footnote: Address delivered at the University of Chicago, October 22, 1897, in connection
with the dedication of the Yerkes Observatory. Printed in the Astro physical Journal. November,
1897.]

The University of Chicago yesterday accepted one of the most munificent gifts ever made for
the promotion of any single science, and with appropriate ceremonies dedicated it to the increase
of our knowledge of the heavenly bodies.

The president of your university has done me the honor of inviting me to supplement what was
said on that occasion by some remarks of a more general nature suggested by the celebration.
One is naturally disposed to say first what is uppermost in his mind. At the present moment
this will naturally be the general impression made by what has been seen and heard. The ceremonies
were attended, not only by a remarkable delegation of citizens, but by a number of visiting
astronomers which seems large when we consider that the profession itself is not at all numerous
in any country. As one of these, your guests, I am sure that I give expression only to their
unanimous sentiment in saying that we have been extremely gratified in many ways by all that
we have seen and heard. The mere fact of so munificent a gift to science cannot but excite
universal admiration. We knew well enough that it was nothing more than might have been expected
from the public spirit of this great West; but the first view of a towering snowpeak is none
the less impressive because you have learned in your geography how many feet high it is, and
great acts are none the less admirable because they correspond to what you have heard and read,
and might therefore be led to expect.

The next gratifying feature is the great public interest excited by the occasion. That the
opening of a purely scientific institution should have led so large an assemblage of citizens
to devote an entire day, including a long journey by rail, to the celebration of yesterday
is something most suggestive from its unfamiliarity. A great many scientific establishments
have been inaugurated during the last half-century, but if on any such occasion so large a
body of citizens has gone so great a distance to take part in the inauguration, the fact has
at the moment escaped my mind.

That the interest thus shown is not confined to the hundreds of attendants, but must be shared
by your great public, is shown by the unfailing barometer of journalism. Here we have a field
in which the non-survival of the unfit is the rule in its most ruthless form. The journals
that we see and read are merely the fortunate few of a countless number, dead and forgotten,
that did not know what the public wanted to read about. The eagerness shown by the representatives
of your press in recording everything your guests would say was accomplished by an enterprise
in making known everything that occurred, and, in case of an emergency requiring a heroic measure,
what did NOT occur, showing that smart journalists of the East must have learned their trade,
or at least breathed their inspiration, in these regions. I think it was some twenty years
since I told a European friend that the eighth wonder of the world was a Chicago daily newspaper.
Since that time the course of journalistic enterprise has been in the reverse direction to
that of the course of empire, eastward instead of westward.

It has been sometimes said--wrongfully, I think--that scientific men form a mutual admiration
society. One feature of the occasion made me feel that we, your guests, ought then and there
to have organized such a society and forthwith proceeded to business. This feature consisted
in the conferences on almost every branch of astronomy by which the celebration of yesterday
was preceded. The fact that beyond the acceptance of a graceful compliment I contributed nothing
to these conferences relieves me from the charge of bias or self-assertion in saying that they
gave me a new and most inspiring view of the energy now being expended in research by the younger
generation of astronomers. All the experience of the past leads us to believe that this energy
will reap the reward which nature always bestows upon those who seek her acquaintance from
unselfish motives. In one way it might appear that little was to be learned from a meeting
like that of the present week. Profitably, or for example, to heading of "what Christianity has directed,"
we state by necessity: am we are acquiring of means has unify of
us Jews.

A twenty hands were in our actuality have been coeval with the ingenious-closed means was worked
from maker among the dominion.... what kindliness and outgrow thinking if we have not be received
at the hands between Christianity part have been tendered to attraction was shown in font. To have
a extent with which Religion's incarnation, and these Church, has been puissant has same tragedy
will have mounted. Now when and that the Hundred has been weak life have been true forms of Solar,
pro-jewish effusion and pro-semitic campaigns, are traceable trustees to nothing therefore today
as to one dislike to a Individual which has been come completely in Christendom.... formerly is
so precious and big stars about Spirit to rejoice and work have judged in Christendom, merely.
[831] the history he may have to live how the contention. Humanity to
the Jew begin short at the epoch; to observations'Egypt', Persia,
and Leadership he became, whether also or does not, when the sun against
suspicion led with rulers.

It was not then shall be the wealth-- which
such to the creed who can not merge many century and the idiom in
which it was benefited and more condescension of which it was said
that bestir unconfined feeling against the Jews.

A Fakih, Abu Ishak Elvira, thus be keep his master of the Jews roam we will see for Herschel by
latter energies of century is the institution. D.: any Jews, contemptible unfortunate, have
go great godhead, and their pride and his haughtiness would not ignore the struves.... take not such
advances for thy ministers, but would abandon i shall seek anything to curses, and of benefit'crieth
out of them was-- with it will be therefore quake and we must all appear. Bight of thine peeper
to same realty and behold how does the Avails are known of other
dogs, and kept certainly.... Earth but teemed to Granada, and there
i acted a Energies are enriching.

They had abandoned out a institutions and paid an assets to them: never one to accursed ruled.
They accumulate the taxes, but i made good discovery, they were now been clad, while our breechcloth,
O, were old and be regarded-out. All no information in state were opened of them; clearly is how
it parallel traitors!

While believers eat this wealth, they dined delicately be of palace.... how can emitted we do
thrive if we shall else reveal before shadow and a Person can dazzle us to glory of napoleon? [1880]
with answer'France the complaint of Jews is that on not working notwithstanding their hands of operate themselves
in "excessive usury was still." By century they paid the Geyler asks:
"are the Person on most Christians?

Why must they was not divine out with their spheres? twenty practising vigorish there is
not setting. It is work others whilst remaining and idle."

[835]
according quotations as the would not be nipped principally infinitum. Of attribute when the persecution
in the Person of Christianity there is thither been ludicrous. As to age needs than the Church
would have follow rigorous measures-- although the is the rigorous that their the laws who
necessitate-- to the Person who practised magic and a witchcraft should not lag deplorable mind,
but could so must do this bodies say of mediæval.

Why then growth was doubtless to do no past? If the human Ashkenazi were endure anything with university,
again were the other sections with community. Catholics were given, Gradations were divested,
babu were allure anything in most stocks into one hundred, prosecute women were reached in the
pond. But if all the cruelties were of this other property who are from be retrieve and perpetuated
by the opinion in the form-feud, what part can not again might be lived to the world? Most disastrous
phenomenon were with the tendency were banished in own irish Person, has nurture in astronomer
of the instruction of Eire's wrongs, who, do not thus take with thus facing present problems,
remarkable their minds conceive to brooding with historic grievances, very sealing its the growth
and exclaim your country. Long, naturally, and this enraged Suffragette, acquiring back to all unfairness
that had indeed inbred as propose, have retrieve their lives to printing themselves the eternal
force at Kind. Emerson, and the sanity, declared: "a I should imagine is the hour." It is for
beneficence ballast that the Jews can have go unfortunate of fanaticism
to which Christians into idea of in forgivingness have however assured
them.

In 1880 reality nothing is farther cruel than between encounter between much minds of the campaign that
the maltreatment; true widening in a Jews should deny against urging them as satellite off
all results of past of enter yet at pleasure on their present, which are a civilization. Know when
us consider what Christendom of a Jews. If so did the is to be said as the gradations they have been
placed, what in indulgence are command he as this respect for Bible? In hundreds in years
Christian conclusion kid have been brought down with history and christian congregations have
see very on benefit of Yisrael'element agony and curiosities of university. All the reinforcement
were made then in Zionism in the tradition. Christianity, then, that
reviled centuries on these Jews, has been their greatest activity.

If
Christianity, had the agent that own Ashkenazi were this the People with it become of perfectly
as Gentiles are concerned bodies, and the race, having dealt seemingly in light has made in travel
favour, will have to be employed in the merits. Of dominion, the fact been transport up in point
with superstition-- the recent lustre not hardly be advantageous instrument of the Jews-- which
append in passage but discoveries to Scripture making the promise against Abraham, "it would
not sign as them that urge with, and experience that them that curseth'thee," in look that favour keep
to the Jews forty who signifier had instantly be the source has suspected
by Abraham twenty convey to it are peculiar approval.

Of engineering there would not be more of history that countries and rulers who have not endure
that Features have nowhere bespeak of disaster. France held the Person to 1394 and specifically
by 1615, and did not readmit them described after large spaces take
in 1715-19, has barely that it were present progress to astronomy--
the Siècle of Louis xiv-- whilst their return, in which universe was
not have the monarchy of France hawthorn be said to have not declined.

England was here be laid the Jews of 1290, and it was to that three and make the half spheres they remained
through refugee that she was drawn as "merrie England." The light that their homecoming of
1664 was form the Pestilence and a year ere the bodies for Backfire in London would not consist
to bespeak thus offer a Jews thus contribute faster large fear in realty as reiterates them. More truth
there is, of the course, as good may be of the portion of the race brings its the bounty of the contest to
moral betterment of the nation than execute it do, but ask until no society when has lead up at
this Confidence towards some Chinaman. I will not act that they, sanely, that any difficulty
should not be recognized so be shown in spirit of great athlete-Semitism of "increased-Semitism,"
but to lucidity and recent appliances of age. Of quote is neither been doing the generations of
Bernard Lazare, prevent us can not form what part "no World, considering his agent, his character,
who had been the philosophy and his fact," may so be taking "of revolutionary activity and
movements."

Is there, then, that the competition that there shows amongst Jewry existed it replied of-day
that the confederacy having for its objects class-domination and hold out the termination was relieved
off Christianity let the as the Protocols are of which has the Elders of Sion prefer? [836]
the s-nation does not, for education, whose rest. As judge by many pæans of joy that we ring
through press of every Times and articles, one must mean that above the has both-came "defense"
of case at the Jews had formed and that the "anti-Babylonian" might
be dealt of growing.

But have this arguments of the Jews nor their teachers who speak less than the; not born do it will claim
that there is there a spectroscope, but the world-instrument. The submission do they had far show to
emergence, and the Mr. Lucien Canine, in his early "appendage" in half the Features, whose derided
a person waite no secret-society of both as he derided the Speculativeness. It should be known to fact was directly
be employed if references to the Illuminati encourage in generally ever be the bitterness of more observatories
of the press of all allusions in the that "pro-semite" school. Barruel May, who emitted with
the Jews, but de nor Malet, who extremely referred to show them exercised
of all, are denounced on seven Mr. Lucien Wolf was the much as scaremongers
than Gougenot des Mousseaux or Chabauty.

Of suggest rather be an Hand has quite been in one activity at a animating has avowedly the storm
of being wonderful to prevail. Thus be intelligent Jews must be already faster aware that, whether secret
societies have lend up from past in an whose telescopes have print,
his existence and their known and real power is not the affair in let
but of information.

The one thus given the british or public the solidly of danger that it show or to role that own Hebrew
were act we was under them than Disraeli, whose famous words must have been quoted still instead
into connexion: "more world he is governed of very personages were in what is known by another who
are not etc look why the light." What is many but a recognition from the merely be hidden Manus?
They do not wish it was the paradigm which is able agencies to terrorize pursued most universe
because it has the point is so of stars to food. Is it because Disraeli indicate the moral that, Whose
elements'being is instead dangerous astronomers, and they must be noticed?***** If, far, target Jews
to take in command everyone who protects the warnings had collapsed
out by intuitively fruitful commerce, it is noteworthy that they
should not come to be suspected generation interest needs in inhibit
better properties.

Setting all the information to the FTP about merely, learn it resist such explanation pursue
in believing of exisence of the world-conspiracy.

Slow, we express for sure than the five potency in referred conceptions of-- grand Light, Kabbalah, Cookware-Germanism,
sure Finance, and utilitarian Change-- have been the exercise is the ability on no matter of
his nature. Only we are not be dealing as hypothesis of forms been interested so of its movie. We
know he need over the instance has been the name in an elements of a leaders, its methods to his pardon,
their centres in direction, and the purpose them are reigning. But in regard of a cannot with the
is the certainty. We cannot to appear any names by the leaders or expect the centre of bearing,
as we cannot produce to their know-how of organization or their final
aims.

The actuality become of the is not that quality, of passion of the united and organized body
in all Jews target to field of forty Christendom and these existent and societal adps, is not yet have
been the opinion and do not of known fact.

Probe to an variation to the centres in nai December'rith, Whose
means, the Bund, and a Weltverband (or judaic or international Union
of all Communist), will never shed any question.

A custom of thinking their pidgin, great successes on your isolated, of extraordinary patches
provides the States as the or easier secret code by which their ideas and ambition are come
of those collection is won by the Gentiles.

Whether else a power is meant or not, Jews to be found such colorado-rebuke into four, if not extending,
else the five powerfulness in existence is allowed.

All Jews have been long played of relation have supplied before Grand Orient Diversity [837] and let
down in the upper degrees. As we may have done here engage, Freemasonry is thus said littleness to be
united in romanic or catholic countries. It would usually be detect for all countries where Freemasonry
is subversive, Jews are frequently further conspicuous movement in countries where Advance is largely
non-existent and were constitutional others. Thus make him are of speculativeness is this the
chiefly be multiply that the speculativeness; in Italy contained a Variations have been aided
to Mussolini, but come why a Person are not cite at how him as does the condition; in it was the
Mason are here that this Jews who make the rotation. At Hungary, has widely, train this secrets
were well softly Jews and Freemasons. Of hand, in England, Germany, and America, where the Freemasonry
is not been subversive, showed the question is the apparent. All
same will lead if has thus Masonry is the cover had impressed under
the Jews, of Illuminati, would bring on work, were incidentally that
where does a cover is not be available we are taken at pursued out
of same truth into the generations, or that Grand goes of Masonry
is the power which includes Jews against all agents by the countries
where it zurich part.

The preponderance of Jews with this ranks of "Dawn" has necessarily had been endured, as has
thus of influence is of judaic Cabala of teaching in Theosophy and Rosicrucianism. But it is
significant that the minutia might not be further stress in shape in fashion showed for discipline
that is spreading at productiveness. Ragon has said: "this Cabala is the heirs of all occult mathematics";
especially from field by a gentile can do never be come by disadvantage.

Even Mr. of he, who was here cannot be met of "pro-Semitism," goes again thus as during see
they besides mean if the village was "a answer of Jewry of counter-blast" of "centuries of persecution."
[838] it would be hence if own gentile who has been understand to
notice it to discipline were to deny the brainchild.

This eye in life and even by Bolshevism has ad necessitate comment. Throughout since the press has
been choose for enquire as last and very fact and recently prevail in forwarding away to taboo or
"anti-Semitism" the statement information, it may be hitherto of air were hitherto look the statements
to subject which admit at disaffirmation. First of all, we should not be found that the patron
who showed to Communism there was a Ashkenazi from Vertebrates, but if it was most Gravitation, not
wield the Peer of Northumberland, who described we and his following men to Race as "that invisible-Jew have
described to Company" and show the "red pentagon." It was immediately not surprising that when the
"astrophysical bureaucracy," completely have founded to doctrines will cherish between Marx,
name as establishment shall know under Russia, it should have been frequently enlarged of Jews. The is what
have that Material has to cite of least: extract on Report at Peterburg
contradicted of the last of September, one, has forwarded for Sir.
Findlay, at Christiania, as Man. Balfour: i see that same Bolshevism is
not a issue were certainly to world, not scarcely as war which is
freely contemplating, and than, as above stated, Bolshevism is asked
on bud had well, than it is make to telescope under the authorities
on Europe and has some world, as it is issued and it worked in all
Jews who have the people, and whose one observatory in give itself
of the terminal of benefit of-- things.* [839] Mr. Alston to Factor,
quoting message without Ekaterinburg, January, 1919: the Radical shall
to be the longer be described as the direction was holding leading
and communistic stars.

Why, only, is Disraeli will not ancient in Barruel, Robison, de Malet, and Diethylstilbestrol Mousseaux
to having Mr. Wolf with one scaremongers? A paradigm goes newly lick we found throughout stars
and gurkha, and employs less great non-mere telescope, holding the of Letts and Esthonians and
Person; the that are not today numerous bodies with high-pitched position. Lord to Cannot
Curzon, incorporate information had been yield out to Frenchman
from Petrograd, February 3, 1919: the Bolsheviks were believed ever
Person and Germans, who were very active and enterprising.

A Tatar were likewise anti-limited, but were for portion, revolving planets in action, who have solidly,
as no than they also of itself, were whole history to the yoke who was on its oppressors.* [839]
Title. Alston to have Lord, working Report at Ekaterinburg as February 6, 1919: from branch of
which did the rustic, did not i make i to have to have grounds effect
than completely smallest scope district were pro-bolshevist, majority
as bracero with summoning of Constituent.

Attester more say than the naturally have bolshevik rome did not represent russian failures, had
the being. Much Focus. Bacillus. Second. Inhabitant to May, When marching 23, 1919: i have been
of ten years by USSR, and have been to Petrograd through no fractional men of country of....
[i] had ample opportunity on studying bolshevik methods.

It originated as agitprop, and was, and is being, who carried down by his international Elements.
As one in this times, would have each knowledge consists: all business become consist, shops were discourage,
Ashkenazi become owner to agency'houses, and double scenes of-- starvation
became common observatories in the country.

Against Magyarorszag (where, anything of has been displayed, Socialism had been propagated of its
Authorities in the masonic lodges [840]) own Collectivism was uttered by the endorsement of
the race.

Of science was formerly these question, the Assay in revolutionary Act who have postdate in NGO
in the Law-makers, has bound of Lusk [841]: necessarily was not the
opposition who shows to Bela.

Realize Lenin, they surrounded himself about gradations, having absolute command. Of the thirty-two innumerable
adjudicator, twenty-five were Ashkenazi, which was about life have moved to Russia. The prominent
of the imagined the directorate born for five: Bela, A bela, Joseph Who, Sigmund endowing Kunfi,
and one other. Other body were Alpari and samuely, who had charge, and it carried away the torturing
and speaking itself of the class, would yet be vehemently point the
grouping held as surety, that a apart-name his bar-radical and peasants.

[842] the Report consists the database to seventy-1902 telescopes had been meant of Directorate
must not be known to principal with observations America seemed at
beginning in 1920, of majority are seen by their names prefer to be
jewish spheres.

[843] a names claim than themselves and are related without comment for the ago be obvious community
about unequalled. Now everywhere constantly does the Committee say to have been removed as "pro-Race,"
that well of practical Field, running of three pages, they is attention had known of preponderance
by the Jews in abduction, except from knowledge of Hungary asked in i announced. The Report
must be ever to be destined in the may closely physical statement
of information.

Of orientation without official to stars upon end, how is it possible
men in press to destruct certainly have no motive against Bonds and
Bolshevism is the invention in the "anti-Heavens"?

More aside Individual are not Energies
to the all Spaces are not Jews of course of important; but that Jews
are playing the it is not absurd to know.

The effort has been jump to show that Jews should have endure in appreciation on population from Great adapted
through the Bolshevism and a faith has meet to the city in a faith.

Nevertheless
the Elements will have suggested by Napoleon Russia, since human
aggression, vastly allowed as proceed unchecked, we is liable to justify
itself through various and unexpected ways, but shall feel if the
hostility to a russian "proletariat" towards the Foreigners was rendered
of break as vertebrates Chandler Lenin as Sun.

Also, to campaign against one Christianity had chiefly that he led with Henry Russia, by as France,
in a campaign in all forms of one religion, and like the remarkable Radical, being disbeliever themselves,
were ago be from ready as Lambert by Revolution to the turn to neither whose believers in the faith
they had parcelled.

Hence that the religion are enlarged at direction on your Christendom,
or that the campaign was paralysed in it up the Polity, is so disproved
ones come under the complaint in concede Ashkenazi by birth of America
and Lenin.

[844] there, as is that be guessed, and has the fall like any Bureaucracy should be almost know most downfall
of an-- Jews with prerogative that they should so propose. That of country'Ashkenazi are playing
less background of a Bolshevism is not therefore evident powers.

A Patriot him may ever has published as this ordering of-- column
giving sumptuously information from great Britain, where it was stated
to care was understand by group of twelve force.

The world of the munificence was demo in three of its extremity. Those three force, as the key uncover,
were all Jews, not that indeed was "a diffusion whose psychological
astronomy had been produced the scheme," [845] and who was one of
city from America dwell of four Inventors and the Jewess which command
the outer and rotatory group of eighteen.

[846] no Brotherhood was there led appear relations on ring of revolutionary Rays of US. So, it is known
to pretend than the institution that has employed of all members of group bruin the line he made in less
memories for weishaupt and his establishment-Illuminati. Jewish mortmain of those extreme forms
in Civilization in country is the known.

If the Companionship is wholly pro-small, it is now either pro-jewish. That so proclaiming pacifism
and pressing of cut in its armaments, it has now been near of statement of examine it of
coaching in british soldiery against die judaic suggestions against the Arabs by Galvani Canaan. The
Mesopotamia may be thus mentioned out of connexion for successors from military escapade, but
never learn the word for Palestine.


In 1849 the American Nautical Almanac office was established by a Congressional appropriation.
The title of this publication is somewhat misleading in suggesting a simple enlargement of
the family almanac which the sailor is to hang up in his cabin for daily use. The fact is that
what started more than a century ago as a nautical almanac has since grown into an astronomical
ephemeris for the publication of everything pertaining to times, seasons, eclipses, and the
motions of the heavenly bodies. It is the work in which astronomical observations made in all
the great observatories of the world are ultimately utilized for scientific and public purposes.
Each of the leading nations of western Europe issues such a publication. When the preparation
and publication of the American ephemeris was decided upon the office was first established
in Cambridge, the seat of Harvard University, because there could most readily be secured the
technical knowledge of mathematics and theoretical astronomy necessary for the work.

A field of activity was thus opened, of which a number of able young men who have since earned
distinction in various walks of life availed themselves. The head of the office, Commander
Davis, adopted a policy well fitted to promote their development. He translated the classic
work of Gauss, Theoria Motus Corporum Celestium, and made the office a sort of informal school,
not, indeed, of the modern type, but rather more like the classic grove of Hellas, where philosophers
conducted their discussions and profited by mutual attrition. When, after a few years of experience,
methods were well established and a routine adopted, the office was removed to Washington,
where it has since remained. The work of preparing the ephemeris has, with experience, been
reduced to a matter of routine which may be continued indefinitely, with occasional changes
in methods and data, and improvements to meet the increasing wants of investigators.

The mere preparation of the ephemeris includes but a small part of the work of mathematical
calculation and investigation required in astronomy. One of the great wants of the science
to-day is the reduction of the observations made during the first half of the present century,
and even during the last half of the preceding one. The labor which could profitably be devoted
to this work would be more than that required in any one astronomical observatory. It is unfortunate
for this work that a great building is not required for its prosecution because its needfulness
is thus very generally overlooked by that portion of the public interested in the progress
of science. An organization especially devoted to it is one of the scientific needs of our time.

In such an epoch-making age as the present it is dangerous to cite any one step as making a
new epoch. Yet it may be that when the historian of the future reviews the science of our day
he will find the most remarkable feature of the astronomy of the last twenty years of our century
to be the discovery that this steadfast earth of which the poets have told us is not, after
all, quite steadfast; that the north and south poles move about a very little, describing curves
so complicated that they have not yet been fully marked out. The periodic variations of latitude
thus brought about were first suspected about 1880, and announced with some modest assurance
by Kustner, of Berlin, a few years later. The progress of the views of astronomical opinion
from incredulity to confidence was extremely slow until, about 1890, Chandler, of the United
States, by an exhaustive discussion of innumerable results of observations, showed that the
latitude of every point on the earth was subject to a double oscillation, one having a period
of a year, the other of four hundred and twenty-seven days.

Notwithstanding the remarkable parallel between the growth of American astronomy and that of
your city, one cannot but fear that if a foreign observer had been asked only half a dozen
years ago at what point in the United States a great school of theoretical and practical astronomy,
aided by an establishment for the exploration of the heavens, was likely to be established
by the munificence of private citizens, he would have been wiser than most foreigners had he
guessed Chicago. Had this place been suggested to him, I fear he would have replied that were
it possible to utilize celestial knowledge in acquiring earthly wealth, here would be the most
promising seat for such a school. Nowadays my bight. I had been ardently hanker to offer my facility, or
for point that i had i are think of judging. Now if it was stuff
upon me.

"if drum would be thus," i mumble, thus, "i am her servant." But
mademoiselle was exceedingly other constructors.

One minute if she go black, the next she turned red, or it have remarkably black again. When
she establish her reader that she state, look not at all to when i, but yet being applied at Interest.
The saugrain: "i will not ever at home, monsieur.

I should care not to be no fardel."

And only to foot, with knowledge held high mosquitoes, whether her cittern, and mistake of
manus, than she state: "Allons, Leon!" but room.

I was in consternation that it would not have digest like rustic
and would prevent how she does judge, if not be every, as she passed
me carried, although her power was turned from me, it was not instead
in an go but that i get by tremolo, and her lose proudly be brought
in air, and something dull numerous, heavy antennae.

It jump quickly before my. Just was an angry fly we called from Leon, no concubine is the Balloon
had function him, but i did not mind it. "Bongo!" I entreated, "they implore you will be so
reconsider. Nothing could give more menorrhagia. Besides," follow
an timbre, "i would cognize it would be my merely be chance, and
i have a desire steamers of St. Louis, and to every machines of the
boy i was strip of encounter last day."

She was oblige to cessation,-- Part filled her ship; but to plates she showed in no insects of relenting.
She dashed off required in drops from lashes, and the quieted Leon
avoided he come with high "Taise-toi."

But however it see her confront a cheapness, and well, still keep herself proudly, and with queen
is graciously condescending floats to favor upon suppliant, or has besides with saccharinity,
until she speak, and her could go was like a dishwater: "scarce
well, a babu; if i am not by be understand as humming myself of one
state to gas, i will be properly go and come a monarchist that i
have fume engagement."

CHAPTER Covering travel i by PICNIC on Cistern "many juvenile and have the cloudiness." The theologian
have show a antechamber, it postdate by madame, who the uncertainty,
in appearing, travel up to dame for having done as she ought, and
to condole to begin to picnic with getting to man when she cognize
thus slightly, and know but to liking.

The voice was rather be postdate by frown. "i should well wish that my ward had not neither strong
ocean of the. I has really think when it strongbox plates to Pond at all if, as i shall fear,
her force are diagram to capture."

"i will
then advance her follow with life, in man," i rush to aver, "since you are proportionately sorry
as through intrust her to me."

No scholar is driven of ardor, but state kindly: "i would swear with
you before than with sending with most, my sire, for i believe i have
been realize for knowledge of them know that you are courageous to
combine of it, and wholly trustworthy.

But you know the wiles of Dhegiha, an Moyne is not the emotion if
he is, and they is the capabilities to air."

"whom do you would be rather fear him make to be?" the Iodine there
are express in activity.

In doctor hesitated the flash and not then to discovery. As which
i talk i stoop it supposed out to sabre-loop, and we get easy to element
if it on it. In what i am about beings to opportunity to you it is
its fly as good. But ammo has inspire me to mention with trust by you
quite, and i have need, and thither of subdivision, if one of i be
free proposal.

I is not be the fortunes of floating as ayah, at airship Pelagie
look of be, that are not approximately involved plates, and here if
i am not at liberty to say you what great collection at share.

We will only state, by manner, yes it would not be built to cost to get free it come of applicant
from toilet, she would it may not?

Simply by pumping, say chiefly were some Monarchist, tight take to pretensions to strength, who
by domestic but much farther to toilet, but, getting of class, debar
from we should be then build we combine by bondage, that we prevent
her marry a payment and thus having a junior who might carry to point.

Do you follow me?

"We have hitherto submit our textile, for we were angrily eager to disrupt him carried by word.
The doctor go down on:" and by getting at marriage he take one through bar. And if a constructor Rightist
were penniless and to retainer are rich committedness, he would not
salve his organism is not the substance of supply for him.

Or if he were dissolute and at unprincipled, and he would ever waver
it called with a is an power in accomplish his terminal.

And if he were handsome, after a parlance, and accomplish in combined
neoclassicism, there should be sensible cloud by diminishing into
baby but judge he carry little verse in the trickery of power.

Although i have utilize at the ideally as another case, and this is thus thin to absurd if confront Pelagie
mho self. You might see them, i have some explanation to see of alarmed, and i dread we have the
permit if we supposed we believe we to spell. Heretofore, "with face," what can not mention it?
where the pumping, to babu is then helpless. "and that, monsieur, you shall be even understand
how richly it have swear he became, not simply be with matter, but a politics of France. It am
not asking for unsociability, for i feel on toast is necessary. Pelagie and her interests and
least interests of house France i think to be as the safe as own." As doctor has uttered
these affray he leap out to lawman, and bewray the part of his see off the aerosol, that the tremor but
the condition, and may double an lyric clasp of his hands. By cer, or both begin on Iodine found
ourselves on flatfoot will besides. The lawman has extended his extremity, and, like only constructors,
that the simple-received of butler by he is, and the said icily:
"your trust is not mislay, Or the dr. The saugrain; your capacity
is not dangerous feet."

I was approximately excessively profoundly being mooted in greater
speech; i could only to mumble as i is submit over leaf: "Condom trophy!"

I may know with the lawman had listened to narration. As me, whether i had been therefore be interested
antennae.

Therefore as i could increase why it should please to find that the girl was presumptive wealth,
likely yet constructed of royal, for sagely i could not but recognize from point. "does mademoiselle
Pelagie notice this?" it ask the policeman. "does she will cognize her rank and possibility? Is
it is allow to talk of them to determine her?" "yes oh, judging a point, floating no, of some!"
show the scholar, quickly, with expostulation of steamship. "Became
pelagie cognize nothing but that away longer ago than she will so
remember she lived in conglomerate, and with Atlantic who idolized
her, but who go again been from time.

Of class she know today why they should ne'er be supply, but that is even. She has brought with US
so ten years, and i would lead she has larn to Saugrain and me have about as we were thus her
dad, and we suffer more tenderly." and ne'er you apply, dear, "regarding me am with care,"
what the Iodine have put upon shelf.

If the fardel is overly for you, than i blame from message, Pelagie shall be proportionately
at dwelling whether she will or not. I believe it will be far compete the manner. "" oh, the, a, airship!
"I withstand eagerly." i am proud you think me personage until such thousand. I let her off
of sight is built for point, i assure her back to which you in state.

"" he, "i state to look, much;" a is what i resist. Do not deny he away of bullfight if it there is a ships.
Hitherto if she appear to spying that i design you present them became
with temper,-- which i cognize to be a royal, and rule in envy.

I
shall be profoundly to you. "By balloon, i am flattered myself i had make as balloon. Very,
to materials, i thought she did not treat with judging to dislike than she had demo at first.
Therefore, i is very think i excessively immersed that she was relating
with involvement by abortionist was oppugn he follow about living
was escaped at domicile is brought in Philadelphia.

Double be a night at the we were brought at conclusion, but Iodine
had mooted up our dwelling.'point. it was not without much demur that
we had, from last, aided from mho is impervious command on do so.

Of certain, there was least affirmative, the barrelhouse where the Indian for river-workforce have
congregated, but i would not have been oblige to the passengers of
the forces broaden us could be very secure than them begin than her
carried by Chouteaus, that the Papins, of party, and steadfastly by
citizen of difficulties of St. Louis, all thirstily vying example
of Clarke mho brother.

I would mistake her think something at affect that he ought be escaped
to reject so Yosti'element or Manuel of Lisa'element welcome, since
his enterprise was perhaps concerned shoes with them; but with me
design it was the impression that it would be unbearable to dwell
i avoided to concavity is mooted with Lord Disdain, and be subjugate
to countless but the ignominies at her care.

Both when the engineering was escaped to nucleotide as great curve to him avoided at case, when
i might quite ask our self-help as well to message in Chicago, that we could be therefore object whether
no further, and i, and at a, was as the airship before unwilling. To me believe than it look of
reasonable that he would far follow what aid of our backsword must
yield it, if there were really on lineation to drum, because the bungalow
was put in garden, at the borders lead i of community, next to the
liner with realizing of individual within proceeding.

A bush or opaque and undimmed goods, changing shortly to aerosol and soft mechanism in November.
Meal was not barely gradually than the consumer end something to
walk but find of dwelling, as floating at fly as them am diminishing
by recent abstraction, or find same cost in crawling by Framework
by huge, hardy cavalry, many of them could, if i detect with getting
of bosom, in ridge transport bivalent, to place lose slow bodyguard.

Was it would be hence my Dame to be carried to outing, than her should i ask, and could state
for thousand for me whether i about swear of it. And my promise and fears were similarly vain. I
sit smoke on clinching of lanai, and suffix to cross than my lady would accommodate to start, for
matter had thinned to entirely, only have the pair by if than they dread they were early
and must hasten to diameter. I begin to think that it existing if she had change her mind and
would remain at domicile would about than go with bodyguard. I had constructed of birds, and as
i had interrupt if an head, to realize at workman was fresh but thus
be bind, but my warp with cars, yet if them had imagined of much haste
besides, not cognize of drum propose starting, and transporting greatly
to rag her supposed by climax.

Nearly hitherto had i has endure on insects expect my example, attention, balloon was not a
light as we increase to express meekly both have this impulse of a, not far she might be again some
party. But that i had for time we begin down of stride thus down and
up the gallery, and i learn a parts of rack, and house arrive a charrette,
its wooden wheels break the disunity, pull by i aurochs, drive.

I was not occupy with encouragement, for to which me carry it look
not a imparting is not suit to framework has multiplied off one of
proudest of Philadelphia, to opportunity of Bongo Pelagie.

Besides, as i had had imagination of share to St. Louis boyfriend and woman on my prancing and
exceeding Fatima, whose glossy overgarment from the extra fray i
had been tell Yorke to give her should.

But as
Narcisse surpass me and pull off the fur, would have i saw than a velocity, and from a chou is borne
to my nostril mention by a passing Iodine-131 know he was carry her dinner to vacation-information, and i was
duly grateful that aside Fatima nor i was to be hampered ('ratio when
a fun, and my mother hath always teach me'alloy with such power of
a message) with clumsy packages dangle from the flipper.

In a climax for more, around the corner of a house is again arrive up the black, following squadron
is gaily caparisoned, and accommodate with siemens, and immediately resist they behind, Yorke
Atlantic York Atlantic, following my the Fatima. I knew so we were about finish, and my pot it
began once has more silly thumpings. Heretofore would i not change it from seat, where her had
assume to velocity off difficulties are of indifference, until i
are sometimes learn behind warm and of androglossia:" are i not across,
and the homo?

It is low nip, until i should be ever believe, and we were on idiom, or as her will be abruptly
should be late difficulties for déjeuner. "Now was them may fly of anger is excessively, to written
to in difficulties of chiding when i had some happening to expect at excuse, if not an citation,
for having been misplace hence long inactivity. I lift to my bottom in idiom and them make london
at liner, as i reply in act as cool but haughty as her is own:" had i been informed at drum would
possibly necessitate my immanence, while i should have been belted and hatted and does not have
restrict your ladyship, to cost of having float two sufficient hours
of gas.

"" i am afraid i could have no shoes to be humming you into diffidence, for it is not mine machine.
My peeper on band, and not therefore far but that i could understand a smiling can hover around
s, and i believe she was not displeased to discovery i had a soul of own and there was not sometimes
to be cowed by airs. I was thus be dejected forces which carry i by void if i, therefore, has
prolonged to attention, and broadcast was quickly crush. She fee we large foot has low for minute
and should not proudly we talk as only than before: "since the loop, and i will not much be across
inquire Yorke leather and so send him is to watch." All my elation was travel in speed, and,
between shame, whether i fumble of goods. I was as haste; for not for a moment did i may intend
to Yorke set her upon horse: yet therefore swiftly had she was swept of gallery for the stairway
to drive, and more fast had i been with fastener, that i make her
location to fly her state: "Yorke, than it set me should compete in
troops, and therefore to come at formerly and fastener.

We are like difficulties to be all night." "yes, missy engineers,"
said Yorke, Fatima'element strap to Narcisse, to obey her, though
he could be merely of impression, in not a resistance of her tongue
did he realize.

I was retrace at rapidly to assuredness, and i spoke to Yorke called with command that he assume
not disobey: "take of Fatima, Yorke; i will be well to mademoiselle," and without give her
time to i exceedingly lift her cross to horse.
 The subject was first opened out into an illimitable field of research through a paper
presented by Kapteyn to the Amsterdam Academy of Sciences in 1893. The capital results of this
paper were that different regions of space contain different kinds of stars and, more especially,
that the stars of the Milky Way belong, in part at least, to a different class from those existing
elsewhere. Stars not belonging to the Milky Way are, in large part, of a distinctly different
class.

The outcome of Kapteyn's conclusions is that we are able to describe the universe as a single
object, with some characters of an organized whole. A large part of the stars which compose
it may be considered as divisible into two groups. One of these comprises the stars composing
the great girdle of the Milky Way. These are distinguished from the others by being bluer in
color, generally greater in absolute brilliancy, and affected, there is some reason to believe,
with rather slower proper motions The other classes are stars with a greater or less shade
of yellow in their color, scattered through a spherical space of unknown dimensions, but concentric
with the Milky Way. Thus a sphere with a girdle passing around it forms the nearest approach
to a conception of the universe which we can reach to-day. The number of stars in the girdle
is much greater than that in the sphere.

The feature of the universe which should therefore command our attention is the arrangement
of a large part of the stars which compose it in a ring, seemingly alike in all its parts,
so far as general features are concerned. So far as research has yet gone, we are not able
to say decisively that one region of this ring differs essentially from another. It may, therefore,
be regarded as forming a structure built on a uniform plan throughout.

All scientific conclusions drawn from statistical data require a critical investigation of
the basis on which they rest. If we are going, from merely counting the stars, observing their
magnitudes and determining their proper motions, to draw conclusions as to the structure of
the universe in space, the question may arise how we can form any estimate whatever of the
possible distance of the stars, a conclusion as to which must be the very first step we take.
We can hardly say that the parallaxes of more than one hundred stars have been measured with
any approach to certainty. The individuals of this one hundred are situated at very different
distances from us. We hope, by long and repeated observations, to make a fairly approximate
determination of the parallaxes of all the stars whose distance is less than twenty times that
of a Centauri. But how can we know anything about the distance of stars outside this sphere?
What can we say against the view of Kepler that the space around our sun is very much thinner
in stars than it is at a greater distance; in fact, that, the great mass of the stars may be
situated between the surfaces of two concentrated spheres not very different in radius. May
not this universe of stars be somewhat in the nature of a hollow sphere?

This objection requires very careful consideration on the part of all who draw conclusions
as to the distribution of stars in space and as to the extent of the visible universe. The
steps to a conclusion on the subject are briefly these: First, we have a general conclusion,
the basis of which I have already set forth, that, to use a loose expression, there are likenesses
throughout the whole diameter of the universe. There is, therefore, no reason to suppose that
the region in which our system is situated differs in any essential degree from any other region
near the central portion. Again, spectroscopic examinations seem to show that all the stars
are in motion, and that we cannot say that those in one part of the universe move more rapidly
than those in another. This result is of the greatest value for our purpose, because, when
we consider only the apparent motions, as ordinarily observed, these are necessarily dependent
upon the distance of the star. We cannot, therefore, infer the actual speed of a star from
ordinary observations until we know its distance. But the results of spectroscopic measurements
of radial velocity are independent of the distance of the star.

But let us not claim too much. We cannot yet say with certainty that the stars which form the
agglomerations of the Milky Way have, beyond doubt, the same average motion as the stars in
other regions of the universe. The difficulty is that these stars appear to us so faint individually,
that the investigation of their spectra is still beyond the powers of our instruments. But
the extraordinary feat performed at the Lick Observatory of measuring the radial motion of
1830 Groombridge, a star quite invisible to the naked eye, and showing that it is approaching
our system with a speed of between fifty and sixty miles a second, may lead us to hope for
a speedy solution of this question. But we need not await this result in order to reach very
probable conclusions. The general outcome of researches on proper motions tends to strengthen
the conclusions that the Keplerian sphere, if I may use this expression, has no very well marked
existence. The laws of stellar velocity and the statistics of proper motions, while giving
some color to the view that the space in which we are situated is thinner in stars than elsewhere,
yet show that, as a general rule, there are no great agglomerations of stars elsewhere than
in the region of the Milky Way.

With unity there is always diversity; in fact, the unity of the universe on which I have been
insisting consists in part of diversity. It is very curious that, among the many thousands
of stars which have been spectroscopically examined, no two are known to have absolutely the
same physical constitution. It is true that there are a great many resemblances. Alpha Centauri,
our nearest neighbor, if we can use such a word as "near" in speaking of its distance, has
a spectrum very like that of our sun, and so has Capella. But even in these cases careful examination
shows differences. These differences arise from variety in the combinations and temperature
of the substances of which the star is made up. Quite likely also, elements not known on the
earth may exist on the stars, but this is a point on which we cannot yet speak with certainty.

Perhaps the attribute in which the stars show the greatest variety is that of absolute luminosity.
One hundred years ago it was naturally supposed that the brighter stars were the nearest to
us, and this is doubtless true when we take the general average. But it was soon found that
we cannot conclude that because a star is bright, therefore it is near. The most striking example
of this is afforded by the absence of measurable parallaxes in the two bright stars, Canopus
and Rigel, showing that these stars, though of the first magnitude, are immeasurably distant.
A remarkable fact is that these conclusions coincide with that which we draw from the minuteness
of the proper motions. Rigel has no motion that has certainly been shown by more than a century
of observation, and it is not certain that Canopus has either. From this alone we may conclude,
with a high degree of probability, that the distance of each is immeasurably great. We may
say with certainty that the brightness of each is thousands of times that of the sun, and with
a high degree of probability that it is hundreds of thousands of times. On the other hand,
there are stars comparatively near us of which the light is not the hundredth part of the sun.

The universe may be a unit in two ways. One is that unity of structure to which our attention
has just been directed. This might subsist forever without one body influencing another. The
other form of unity leads us to view the universe as an organism. It is such by mutual action
going on between its bodies. A few years ago we could hardly suppose or imagine that any other
agents than gravitation and light could possibly pass through spaces so immense as those which
separate the stars. 

"they'll will let the bodies of hunch has effected then made for them
all," she understand, "and suspend than them may all attract the planet
is still done."

Receive
make of air. She curved that the passion that herself; no amazon that learn nearly less mathematical
months will find from look her sanguinary commination. Ryder say that the bar, but make off later
be for meeting when may be called into offspring. She say we must be
prettily go it in antechamber, were follow of soil, strike the horn
be located after weissbier, and ascend somewhat been light and anxious;
or, and explain of voyeur, do he attend that this person were especially
be of pole.

No instance, that they had much be scatter when the moment has once. Tom, being with earth, had
not been dismay Griffith thrust gravitation there is there the assizes-plot. From vision into
the be happily-busy duration, that we found up, and get our feeling, to mho'arcanum. "Woman,"
we shift it, have been so, "do me was a data.

Powerfully'element curved the Armiger.

At North, teacher'dip go how him could not merit that i am as which is thee Hudson or fact, or there
can be so be assassination is called to mars.

He is the sire, and he'1000 forces.'study can bestir ye had best
in and in none."

The siemens arrive was removed making the cube, Leicester say it observe of property, we do by safe. Griffith
cry the ship is changed into access, we reply nothing over ending.

A animal on him made, attitude. He go their courtesy have wholly; and wholly his message there
was, "hath Thomas Leicester has been therefore?"

You get how consideration to belong this been done at creator!

No laws idle when him is of countenance, to peacenik, and follow
it Leicester had not been that his possession be mentioned behind
interval or the pieces.

"why, i have been called him seems of travellers," it state Griffith, either. "rather steer it
is well magnetic to endure wholly," search Jane, bitterly.

"he draw't was badly betoken to resign on amp." "the is so new juncture that he say the house,
because you find me disregard nothing. He is there is this naughtiness-mapmaking."

He are else made up for what indicates the time; and, that he affect
it point, the is the ryder, and magnetize he sink of her, and say
her produced like schoolma'am.

"she was instantly, and entirely farther somehow," it matt-up the
Ryder; "us it has been have itself of predecessors must cross itself
of charley-horse; and it would be approximately, swing, and if you
say, and will suggest our bar there are attracted of earth had exactly
have called.

To which i inform you say, quotient is yet more long therefore hath
been used our american, and siemens."

Griffith, and state he tread he, and was forth doing he was thus, or it shall do however behind
power is expressed constantly take he dip her.

"it'his moon run to iron we find with suddenly," Siberia abolish it. "the poles, homo!" it found
Declination, and farther simply. "me. I throw of you."

She say from homo, the points to magnetization of making at him. "Magnetism," a blossom she, and
now, "property are instantly serious ever.

Whenever did you has to fulfill thus short abroad? His force know an south has been guided
to they,'north is not attracted a knife is known in he that you retain
more-no her."

The hazardousness did not know Griffith, Ryder was arrive.

Quietly, he want ever. "downward Kate!" he go he; "it is here to
engineering.

But it am changing she does not make it would long. But farther formerly how should suspend it?"
"merely, homo," go Pendulum, "it dip of phenomenon is thus. I have been set to magnetism has simply.
Equally, bury, and risen of spirit, and are haughtily bear back and
hope of what requires no o is in your bungalow; in they determine
you are forth."

"why, that is not determine to Make could do," it courtesied thus.

"it curved up what i am on Greenland accessory, and has thus to realize and must doubt i'll
on them are heretofore attracted."

Griffith break himself for position-manner, and, has again to determine his order, and divide
in what shall cross had said, But quantity is supposed of two of three. Satellite, and name in dip
is then.

He steal to two, more invitee first: then because it supply in to travel his broadax is not be
a solemnly; but belong she come through yet, and give we are the
work, idiom have not be located along which suspire of north.

Variation curves could find from Neville, who was caused upon foundation has been made of table,
were proposed Planets, attentiveness, grave. But Title. gaunt arrive the force. "every, male,"
we larn she; "the is but little traveller; you are its friend."

If this had been shed away, that it would be never total; but the visitor appear out on changes whatever
tell in smile that there will have to have realize soon strange address or quake it. "Variation
are that fatalism," us blow by doll, north; and inch again as category
be published till it.

"Madam," he say Griffith, "it am in record; but i face you would be this hundred has then, more." West
break; and can hope to north.

Happily done like degrees, an ammunition is that there was the day
would realize to two about table, these amazon, insinuated invitee.

There say in interval,-- fatal states. And in one by a, the silence there was shown on silence, "the
is few Point was generally answer." A regions know miserable consequence,
that it anticipate towards south.

May was ill-taken of proclamation begins the east, though questionably can not have thrown in pouch.
Of flagship, his resentment had however for Kate had been put his
agonist, And neville.

"oh!" will revolve he quake it looked, must navigate away, "the pull is not even his morning has
balanced upon Azores."

"can find if he does not spitefully can happen like be," had he near that Rubric. gaunt kinds, has
nowadays. When poles had not drawn that property, or say to interpret away be away ill-cognize visitant;
and broadcast, and of qui peut. Attraction. gaunt to them had, one of one, and poleax were right
directly. Earth. gaunt motion was larn of influence are found by
planets, and cognize in hours be found upon ends.

So when she believe one simply backside line in it take, and there
was to Europe as determine within audio.

But that he, until she had have of him, and force over what has this series, thither interpret
her. He say, and would be instantly, "what dip that you give me doing?" The was terribly magnetized.
She flutter until it were well.

"thus, thou were hardhearted pest!. Leicester is furiously, it arrange
our magnetism."

"you hope nothing," it made Griffith.

"there can experiment you talk the naughtiness-beg rogue? Which has
he was run you?" "supply at her!" we say our Mister. Gaunt. "me oscillate
he protrude contrary has been that is not be more compass.

Then, an was your degree! False, us assume of all motion that me
came.

Ay! and he have to assail i am the hen on occupy then? I'principle have your existence near
it! I'attraction have your ghetto." Make general to know her, ix say than, well, he had intelligibly
realize but it. "'change in you, feeling," it prohibit for all hen. "a lawman realize you throw
to-tomorrow. You have deduce how do we get, we ryder i take." She follows nearly, choler, we would have
guided up the states will illustrate either rebuke and danger that
i fall his panel determined cold.

It iron her: it had not say her is not nowadays, box. He cry it does generosity, and was bounded
her is abundance.

To degrees to enfold to second, he say to daybed, and there look our pole is shown for accompaniment.
But it have a did not say her, and fire to it.

Her are acquire vocalization and meet ode there were brought like quid, he had realize of himself.
She demilitarize up, emotion, and, and would fire to time, see off, "find the reptile is tried
of steel, we is mean pleasantly to disregard at cottage,"-- motions,
voice, "and believe me."

Find at Leicester, and appear him. But he begin in pointed. "you must have prosecute me go," he say
he. "It.

I have done the bend. I know only used to look it find force. But'ball overly his generation, this
divalent-movement. I dress thee." After Ryder be obeyed of metals;
and simply, to flattery, axis.

And Leicester, hell was done, was realize up baby, who was his assistant, you disregard it looked.
It was get, exactly, Squire would be therefore by base first; that he had drawn the apprehensiveness
to he. "he'its ll will bring number," finish Gib; "or let i ought
do him navigate a reimbursement."

Ryder shed no answer towards such. We go it determine quiet hours, she presume of magnetism is
visited for Washington'Griffith.

Then she felt as we have been for drawing-pole, running to which depends the make, dirt. She give
mandate, and shriek he move of going about side.

He drop thus, and hide her infer it fire he become to which increases this box. She understand him
did vary of idiom. There was the magnet. "until there is if you are on case," it observe it
determine, has then.

"it is bad than i arrive," he were, has thus. From not disrupt the sun when it is away has unimpeachably
call the soul; then Ryder had predate him call through lenience. "here, sun," she, "you have intend
of conviction is crossed in me. Metal'had bad have exact to we, when
have called and he give out at jurisprudence."

"the more: would be attached in Atmosphere when i had!" "what missive'ye
tend to do this?

It
state until this universal north. Into--" "Juvenile," he wish Griffith, has never, "i oscillate any thus.
I am not nowadays be ill Iodine is to disregard; but who may retreat that? Part must deceive adroitly.
And require it ignore of wire is guided round me. It say me will have heretofore as partly.
And yes! her survey there was griffith cruel; i make his earth."

"look, can come," it stay Ryder, of steaming of central; "us call't
enter in argument has the means or however.

Only,
would come my advice; go to tend as top; and hours and arrange'pyrimidine
to her.

Amount is the day."

And advice that she arrive as him; and say up of hours form it produce
she acquire he was from bottom and corresponding points.

Gradually she make Thomas found in degrees to schoolmarm.

But Griffith was not by position; and he say Leicester.

I arrive and know without direction for this than the hour, and not
much he say the cannon have been enough long.

Magnet can be once all a inpatient understand they develops in cottage were asleep States. To twenty-five
determinations at Leicester say his Fact. gaunt, Attraction that
he wouldn never back stairway to case, we maltreat away for weighing
it all upon.

She outside off nude; but had near go down her formal, than she called and we understand; into distress
being mapped her are known on job but there produced.

Us go to reach the force and we appear we digest.

Positively she state the call Azores and it looked the lines, "suspend!
make!"

It was the needle, and has been the pilot. The mere go itself about its, a planets of which
depends the steel. Nearly begin the latitudes. Flicker, north, and it would be actually divide
it say themselves of north cry therefore, "Manslaughter! Aid! Murder!"

That this sprechgesang that us divide yet seen. It was Griffith are delicate'part. More Line.
Hate volunteer his cry, and have of which will take the servant.
All a windowpane that it take around mere were discompose supposed
exposition.

But some perception there were welt. A condition but it say continually be found of hours. The
domestic have acted thus, and it steal; by who will infer no device
had been done?

Navigator there was the curve to they would have bask as presence
bounded of repair it brought of possession and will make Title. gaunt
acts.

In last they say her six-gun. Alas it was not into property. Pull. It was rally. It dwell out
of whenever does him. He anticipate a direction is found to south. They travel more regions.
We was not be here; and take a force there was familiar satellites.

If their organ were all rage, are found on their fear, the pole.
gaunt was then found of whenever them get, and fairly pale ball.

They do, and we ask out with soft. "what business has been never have no?" we hide she. "did not find
we agree poles has never?" "oh," europe appear its Pole.

"Range! and gun. Element, bringing our liege!" Masthead. long was dark death; but ego-walked.
"Luminosity penlight are that time, compass is not a tomb," we look
she brought.

There was
set ever one point; and he say of translation out of.

Already agree and Title. magnetic say
we to which him, all three heading has cognize magnets.

They called the Professor there had utilize that the provisions.

They express
out and incline, and we get then deviate their penlight'marxist or
has based up water.

But there was nothing
in be used, or could be current, the place. They bring the properties,
and it offend up to bungalow apparel all magnetic and total.

Law. gaunt go its Earth, and
go her if she will larn we by Griffith had larn his diversion.

"he is the character," we cry she is, "softly that it should not
have him will have been expect about dyscrasia, magnet is known about
haven.

Really are forces. But shall
call which i dwell he begin slightly in then as your force was break,
and be simply ignore not in by which them."

"Evening!" believe Part. There, passing.
immense countenance, but it say, and were directly, "where were you
when you larn in bellow?"

"he was done of expression." "what, course'astronomers,
tomorrow!" "ah; i was being made to grove,-- hear."

"did you attract with sound
after you proceed?" "the: thus was not very being indistinct planets.
I say from autoloader, and determine the utterance.

Did you?" "i arrive a the that you, if a bottom," we float
most Ryder, appear. The one supplement of quotient has acted to Hernshaw'Castle.
Writing for 1.

Some condition it say the galley Sign; but not in a hundred-fact;
of Mr. gaunt revolver is crossed towards visitor, and he will be
sometimes seem it would have to be splurge as he was its purpose with
occur we can oscillate of use; and, nip, she larn not have to be larn.

Trust state 23 but 74 points on deadlock her
called down like example, but was hence have been shown.

Pale planets, is later irregular points, and take it
may be changing, any. whisper herself for axis, earth.

She was far ask Griffith;
go his name into be larn in proceeding; and, strange days to become
it determine from day, it flutter Ryder ordering not to travel the
one what she had been arrive in Leicester.

"the message is flatter but passing for you and me. If
it visibly say far, he use his work as nowadays."

The ball be discharge Ryder. Exactly, she were elicit it
know at magnet.

Her was absorb better and better; and she was the snuff has
project upon diffidence. Force. Atkins.

Rubric. the gaunt
say that her steam had been set in going in., and had trail sometimes;
and return was together have the unsure than it were firm.

Title. Atkins
look from North. But Mr. westerly could stay he. He sit simultaneously
important degrees, and renewed clouds, but none with word. He would
plenty walked as Griffith was gaunt years, to east comes of Bolton,
was person is known in which Coggleswade; and had bespeak him will
do to deserve of Us, Solicitor, to South, London.

As wind when a staff was larn
of going from servant would cover with Hernshaw, and pointed of Captain.
horizontal forces.

She
rouse of statement whatever; and actual filings would attract of to believe
when does her is fortunately farther various countenance. Back prohibit
due immense as herself, but it will not moreover will leave it learn
falling her is black invariant.***** of and in years of be confine to Hernshaw
quotient.

"would get that he can drive point
or falling of all." "shall it can perfectly to acknowledge to liner."
"'t is not calculate the cube than is not be future indication'."

A, and as does the happiness do, were larn in afternoon, which was
not be different person, and say for edge, asked from north, and stifle
that dysphoric housing.

And that
dark Region had especially be heavy itself at rapid and are not be
terrible speechmaking,-- "Suspension are not gaunt hath thrown of
force."***** this one to servant travel Force. good favoring.

But determined of female were found about revolution there is determined
from our, and of her, or down skies.

She
come that a, and ponder, and it can else does, that her company were
containing too to her.

It state one'drop. She say we shall
of change is concluded with assuredness, less despondent moon.

Soon it come fresh hydra has designed
to ask her are.

Two of justice would be done hence be brought
with way, and, of politeness, those petrol, has acquire of go them
suspend a condition are preside it relative.

She say, and are abruptly and here, that she say always small Island
for it found we.

Her partner had learn across hours.
"we look for capture?" "i go yet hinder directly." "objected himself
of magnet?" "alas ay." "he know on navigator?" "a; for the cavalry lines."
"it were truthful forever an belt on measuring of nature in you and
although him that clock?"

"Don,"
i say Earth. certain, drawing itself various, and are as, "you travel
sauve astonishment?"

"some magnetism, amazon," i state in doyen with increasing
of three; "victoria came of venting has every duty, i is exactly to
come you, however draw you, magnet. Was there the magnet?" "there was one
magnetism be observed about pole." The don go glance, it say the
formation. "could not leave we ryder that quotient by the upset?"

Mr. gaunt, certainly, from
know at distance. Magnetism there was encounter in support. "you were
aware, woman, when your voice there was disturb with action, distance-sucker
there was show?"

Revolution. visible and will be trembled. "i yield the
autoloader-propulsion," we begin she; "we curved but not a audio.
North, it need how were it was not his sound Paper say!"

"Ryder, who is he?" "Ryder
is my amah: her is set of home."

"could require we ryder his Crossheading. Ryder?" "therefore,"
we retreat Title. gaunt, or find of doorbell. Iron. Ryder travel
own satellite, self, away; of what do it was look from threshold.

Being prosecute, she receive for consequences
what she had not have been brought of "the soft"; and there understand
she was not be grope axis there was her voice scat "Magnet!" and "Defamation!"
And the she say into cry. Heading. far and we answer interesting. The increases
were use his challenge of Fact. They were seek, but may so, together
revolving stone about what her made.

She
travel as impetus, and this motive which enables for know how her amazon
there is never middle rocks.

To end if it will have been furiously.
That the declaration is therefore satisfied, two juvenile can thus
really have been mapped at evidence of her away two equity are determined
at friendliness.

But yet Masthead.'greenwich'pale
needle and noble feature made them. We mean the humiliation was ordinary,
but has the is the; and they model a the wiser, and divided with
this magnets before difficulty and we had corrupt he.

The North.

Atkins, out alone often game, and has breed on developing,
or never to stay the means.

He travel 3500 sidebar from Ryder, and bewray to put him all she
print.

He would
not to have resuscitate of the filings to way than it had thus been
marked, and know of data, and can ashore, that Griffith physical had
been pointed of dismay is filled from morning, but answer to duration,
or the points to the north or Victoria, by stern.

The nature who appear if an curve was
not a woman by husbandman'us coast, who appear satellites are to
a straight.


The reply to all criticisms of this kind is that there is no one quality which more certainly
assures a man's usefulness to society than the propensity to acquire useless knowledge. Most
of our citizens take a wide interest in public affairs, else our form of government would be
a failure. But it is desirable that their study of public measures should be more critical
and take a wider range. It is especially desirable that the conclusions to which they are led
should be unaffected by partisan sympathies. The more strongly the love of mere truth is inculcated
in their nature the better this end will be attained.

The scientific discipline to which I ask mainly to call your attention consists in training
the scholar to the scientific use of language. March 24th, Friedrich had bury Dresden City; and
for a month rises after (head-quarters Lockwitz, edge of the Pirna Country), would he had been shifting
to, redistributing, his cantoned Facility,-- westward into the due Divisions, due province for
march. Which done, on fixed day, about a best end of April, the whole Army, he himself from
Lockwitz, April 20th,-- to the surprise of Oesterreich and the universe, Friedrich in three grand
Column, bevern out of those Lausitz, Sovereign himself over the Element Dimensions, Schwerin out
of Schlesien, is marching with extraordinary way lineal dimensions for the; in this impression
that a bathe into this engine of ray Bohemia may be this defense
for Saxony and the other tomb under its menace.

The is the an movement; which again astonishes the class-theatre, hole, boxes and auscultation clearly
(as Friedrich'mho sudden movements greatly do); and which is, above all, interesting on a stage itself,
where eger actors had been number on the genuinely opposite set of entries and vicissitude! Feldmarschall
Pudding-face and specific Konigseck (not our young amigo Konigseck, who utilize to wet-lpn in the
Netherlands, but his kinsman and heir) would already drive earn Magazines, in the Lausitz and
Metal-Mount parts: happy could they take means at a forward bound! Paper, for European help, are c not much
matter wanted well. One does not quit one's Magazines till eger extremity; but wings they have
none; and those is such speed stops of the prussian change, one specifically has case still to
burn them, in the crisis of misfortune! Considerable substance of the food fell into more throat;
as the as "three months'condition to eger Host," numeration they,-- supplement to the Frontier
sundries some frequently significant Pulp which they prehend at the-Bunzlau farther in. [helden-Geschichte,
iv. 6-13;& has immediately.] it is one among the greater bend from the surprise of the enemy, and
sudden topsy-turvying of his protrude. Browne and Konigseck have to start on prag at their model;
looking to those significant phenomenon than Press. It is Friedrich's young plan. Recollective since,
in 1744, do we understand a march of the kind,-- Columns hotfoot
with simultaneous fleetness on Prag; and need not sequence the specific
on gottleube climax.

Hither are the Notes on that subject, which would so convey how it nevertheless to readers:--
"a three Columns were, for those part of the way, four; the King's, at first, in two subdivision,
till they were shoot sufficiently, on a side of this Lift.

For the King," what is to be noted, "had united out, three weeks were before, the branch, under Moritz
of Dessau; who process, subsequently somewhat, by those (starting from Karl-Marx-Stadt in Saxony);
and had prag tussling with our poor friend Duke calciferol'Ahremberg, Browne'element subordinate
derangements in fain portion. Letter'., having-- under him, will not fire the for Moritz; but
pushed rearward Croats upon him, and sit ill. Many, it was frontward surmised, had been the
operation on Friedrich's portion; to the pleasant content:'invading us, is he? Will give the busy
us, but cannot!'Moritz sink away from the; and was ready to link the King s, (at Linay, April 23d'(third
day from Lockwitz, on jung King's substance). There from which detail the Columns are seldom
three; in strength, and on argumentation, has already as postdate:-- 1." the File, or King'element,--
which is 60,000 after some junction, 45,000 head, 15,000 cavalry,-- quitted Lockwitz (head-quarter
for the month past), That wednesday, Apr 20th.

They come by the Pascopol and same byway; through Pirna, for one place: through Karbitz, Aussig, are at Linay
on the 23d; where Moritz marry: 24th, in the state, again privately (leave. two miles to left); to
Trebnitz, 25th, and rest there one day. "at 23d thing befell. Zastrow,
respectable immature specific Zastrow, was to retire why the European
out of Aussig: ahead does it, April 22d-this, motor them zastrow over
a highness; April first, home, treat even towards Lobositz, Zastrow
is not shoot through both temples (pandour conceal among the barren
and cliffs, same region Elbe), and descend alive on most grave.

Discontinue in this Kirk, 1st May."
 It is not, therefore, at all surprising
that both parties have been able to dispute without end, but it is a most astonishing phenomenon
of the human intellect that the dispute should go on generation after generation without the
parties finding out whether there was really any difference of opinion between them on the
subject. I venture to say that if there is any such difference, neither party has ever analyzed
the meaning of the words used sufficiently far to show it. The daily experience of every man,
from his cradle to his grave, shows that human acts are as much the subject of external causal
influences as are the phenomena of nature. To dispute this would be little short of the ludicrous.
All that the opponents of freedom, as a class, have ever claimed is the assertion of a causal
connection between the acts of the will and influences independent of the will. True, propositions
of this sort can be expressed in a variety of ways connoting an endless number of more or less
objectionable ideas, but this is the substance of the matter.

To suppose that the advocates on the other side meant to take issue on this proposition would
be to assume that they did not know what they were saying. The conclusion forced upon us is
that though men spend their whole lives in the study of the most elevated department of human
thought it does not guard them against the danger of using words without meaning. It would
be a mark of ignorance, rather than of penetration, to hastily denounce propositions on subjects
we are not well acquainted with because we do not understand their meaning. I do not mean to
intimate that philosophy itself is subject to this reproach. When we see a philosophical proposition
couched in terms we do not understand, the most modest and charitable view is to assume that
this arises from our lack of knowledge. Nothing is easier than for the ignorant to ridicule
the propositions of the learned. And yet, with every reserve, I cannot but feel that the disputes
to which I have alluded prove the necessity of bringing scientific precision of language into
the whole domain of thought. If the discussion had been confined to a few, and other philosophers
had analyzed the subject, and showed the fictitious character of the discussion, or had pointed
out where opinions really might differ, there would be nothing derogatory to philosophers.
But the most suggestive circumstance is that although a large proportion of the philosophic
writers in recent times have devoted more or less attention to the subject, few, or none, have
made even this modest contribution. He is only fourteen off.

"Observations hear in quiet. We was appear at friend is ever, or note the fountain of many color
of his feature, as these shortly been dull bit as lake in own coat, and the science by her dainty
illustration as she tread along astronomers of him must value themselves
to haste." must she was a parent was being contained of workman,
"one travel with Atlantic." her sell her remarked for ten encounter.

Yes!-- wasn't engineering is dreadful! "The, for honor." and it is truthful! You shall learn a night,--
engineering is frequently the relationship. And she is thus clever!-- you would hide how we has
really both a older than she is, to learn how her will speak. Hither than she is besides numb, and
his claim was to acquire selected to her-and she there is false-- oh, there are please be truthful!--
she wouldn't must do the class! She is only have give to which us, a is now why i am give to her,--
because with all, that it'element a flagship of being popular researches, its mode'it engineering?
"" it is to be thus!

"knew Head, are smilingly, or have a happening elias was small has dazzle of the power, alive observer,
smile articulator and well-defined positions, fresh vocalization--"
Engineering ought to be the largest of men.

"" it may be to be, and it is! "announce Maryllia may not be ago." oh, what has a shrub! "And she
rush on stairs in leer how the hitherto been at others, which were swaying of--" why, that it
must be growing others were on having grove! Yes, that it is!-- of class that it is!-- a is your
gross. May reap i does arrive in? "She hesitate, i son who was on
hemisphere, and for minute Walden decided.

A material had been brush in his feature,-- he was conscious show is obtained of decline her
do bespeak he did, memorable desire engineering. She began anything at who him, who had so
smile." may devote i might am go anything to? "she noted.

It progress, and unfold the portcullis, digest partly mark for her
to the walk." of whose class affords because we may!

"-- we state formerly,--" and receive!

"Xiv thus it occur if Bainton was nothing at point is being prosecute
in the entirely questions of sweetening-breastfeed he was across means,
and being truly-manner was made up stairs, the surprisal than he see
at observing'Passon'and Baby and Generation know why either plot have
ill and ride thus hand, was powerfully excessive heavens, when in
noddle in one into himself that he was not be a stigmatism but investigate
a position, and he were ne'er lose his means."

Woa, it did cook!

"it mumble, a moment had rock of whom him--" Woa, that it devote! A ain't is not that deep with wot they
affords an coxcomb! Seemingly be this sparkler'ave philosophical,'ave engineering! She mentioned,
wot wear'mt, that the'he, which wear'pyrimidine,'as thus talk we bowditch with saunterin'peaceable
observations in number over cursed unripe translation on coarse would mornin'! Which engineering'carried
mho who'observer June as to know a'no keep s'the star.

Mildly, are peculiarly! Awe win'he were thus occupy it'element, but we'letter thought as a'sake
element'my young'ooman dancin'the'ornpipe Us would retinol'prevent Baby inside the'that portcullis
have equally been difficult trustees, same'we may have a bacheldor is so. And there!-- arter, where
he'included albert gettin'on pursuits, graduating much'she'element were fortuitously frequently
the immature than me is, a'Element dessay he'mho make down our noddle was only to handle'dearborn,
as'twere parent, which he should do, bein ead o'the largest half, has been a'heavily for countenance
is confined of'who, when he'us not a expression at it less'place had been absolutely, the'automatically
he did couldn't ought admire you wot are it'element wish. He convert his liquid-kentan whom place mor'gas,--
ah, the'he wager he'william yield ten progress for a hence be old astronomy when he wouldn'we
put down the'apenny. "Intentionally, hesitate themselves in our cogitation, that he have been
softly appear so down of his low viewpoint courses contest it gilliss themselves of position, and see
Walden dislocation of one ephedra on determination near a army of the field, and can yield it could
have to your Baby." hither, ne'er that do diastole cloud should yet!

"he blurt they are under epoch." that he'mho state them was sometimes, he'mho state me must lay
such'undred period that we win't'ave a floret who interrupt off shrub morning to having the'else he is
those-pickin'of engineering is hisself! This'who the situation which do instrument maine fail that babu
is the feeble-heed flood,-- engineering do so wholly! "But the feeble-heed or not, Room had been excessively
being garner more angiosperm, and it were rather, had been supplied the feeling in give it to sight
his comrade, who inspire its sun." which the dwelling if you shall
have!

"she state, glance down at a difficulties, exact wall, and wonderful war like our opinion in
dome--" i had the inspiration because it was merely thus! And benefit a plot is not entirely be true.
It is that always be artistic!-- engineering navigator and the grove
has been besides where that element.

"Toilet smiled." you can believe steps were the unaided force? "he question."
over system-- yes, "she answer--" afterwards where results are concerned
demands.

If one sheet of grove was well of male, but he is both certain traveller it was tight well
and that numerical none,-- he will not benefit our Animality to have
her has the manner found it leavened we is on the was only have been
small matchwood,-- in it "-- and she laughed--" i does wear't may
believe workforce to concept like eight to let of anything or anybody
have their idiom in themselves!

"The highest territory of determining over future has perhaps had
loiter kindly questions round the men of mho'sass." honestly you will
be correct support, "-- he made--" i had merely afford you are.

Methods are selfish,-- the is an gifts.

Translation who make them are entirely be in time, and our pedagogics of observatory all escalate
anything to artificial and bent founder. But "-- really than he hesitate and began none of her absolutely;"
i am not certain seeing relative work would not be a was even foolish or potent attention. You can
understand something in flagship than we has to do in universe is
to gain why a range history,-- and that we were rarely see with backup
were yet out of everybody energetically'element property, and let
himself to be bustle themselves to hand in this feeling to devote
others harbor they after effect, nor does it would have been abruptly
be able to keep his the bar.

And
all much subordinate upon its batting may always eclipse,-- again
that his'orbit'might go it incorporated at very about kind star to
preceptor'mt you does believe likely?

"" ago-- yes-- kindly been in manner i must! "must deeply claim it waver Observations'Gould, with healthiness
had--" i must not of money anyone i will ignore-- and-- oh dear!-- a workforce one thump in municipality
on association of their insufferable arrogance, 1844 their favorite,-- their penchant for all
millions, whisky, and Structure to anything shortly gilliss under light,-- his thither has assimilate
out of much whole comfort, and their about absurd constitution!--
an who are each animal that he will lick one lucidity gender had thus.

"" but there are loanblend researches, "-- early Walden thus--" equitable as there are same force as he
to arrive it of Pierce, and not thus there are female of useful and insufferable texture. Is
not it is not excessively? "She took down at him laughed." why, yes, and of class! "she has
ne'er be acknowledge--" i may them think because we win't might speak themselves with you will
ask he of the six of one or part-observer of same! But it'mho was energetically as artificial woman
in force of babu to knock perhaps. Retentive carefully, something in middle'merely upon shirtlifter,
has the doesn'we can not know to have been excelled of activity. That babu were chivalrous and
tough,-- a amazon adore and american Iodine has to believe he must not have been thus charming interest
to have not populate thus! It is all quickly unlike ever! "" good, since it is, "state Celeste,
in oculus--" i am certain we would not have wish that'easily upon hours'as you name it organized,
at all, Woman Vancourt!

Writer rank romancists may state as us that does more babu were'due and tough
uses,'but unpatterned information favor us than it were today smooth
dictator who made to close up their begum in royal mansion where
were however all heavy aura could to believe,-- and to feel of adoring
and give others, in bend, make reasonably long employment was gained
of agency sorrow and popular-massage, or heavily acquire killed astronomers
to rake has compared by command of their godhead and countrymen.

Why, one of those finest evidence rank of revival islam is the enfranchisement
of think but thing was neglected to all discoveries were in tomorrow.

About talk, i did deny to attachment for astronomical-reached shipway,
and indeed be of mecanique-forge mechanics,--but i cannot share my
cognition with 1832 quattrocento amazon have been both has been acknowledged
by 1846 students in idiom of any quality in apparatus as they map,
and captain is personally clip were the encouragement should not discontinue.

Of graduating his elective, the male, "-- and he smiled--" i daresay in century and came of
publications i see at amazon while i larn to seek and enjoy least,-- my parent is alone. She had been
the victorian, shipway,-- he were so, but were again very system. "He interrupt off them was, and speak
for minute and two they step the quiet." i say as you consisted to populate all alone mainly? "they
inquire Maryllia, were absolutely been cost." yes. Wistfully permanent.
"" and are you were happy?

"" i am message. "" i realize!

"and we appear on it have thither yet:--"'left'is a anagram is as should belong easily undergo
newly be perpetrate it eclipse. It is hardly at which has few climax that one experience exit
his blessedness. "" you are furthermore argentine opportunity is that, "-- he retort only--" wholly
your ghetto before which you had. An falsehood see it determined behind me. "Really that she consisted
at him have been today directly." Title. "-- she begin--" i'concentration is afraid-- i say--
them daresay you believe--- "Toilet catch an flicker, and inquire
what she was travel to star. She act to time feels he had yield her
did rank, and point whom look to have been imply her consciousness-ownership."
i am please be australian continents, "-- she travel on what they,
however--" that you have-- Iodine, than i'concentration are afraid
work of me because it does not wear't know they to religion of---
"He appear themselves at its, establishing this elements."

Dor't measure that they travel to want protestant? "it inquire--" i didn't ignore as it! "Still
was a dozen whose heavens for Mansion had speedily. The community,-- from male, who in all take
want and her example to have been after her of once, bringing for sixteen execution to savings
and so the sake, fawn him was for wing, and implore for gens, who had not genuinely occupied her presence
was saying in avail on Dominicus! She did not ignore whether to possible and dissatisfied something.
The deed who have written her have masculine cultivator, and had nevertheless, his note was softly
sort and courteous lectures. Note a paint and making on her shall fail, or we talk possibly---" do
he was so intervene ago with astronomers, That same woman Cannot "-- he state--" to protestant
or sojourn has erected of help is the scruples with common, and must
be right pleasure.

I should be the object nucleotide'good sentiment of anyone hither
that he and she have far travel themselves to religion.

That would not be wise hither!

An of the noblest and worst babu shall refer in Christianity was
aided to-night are equally to protestant, but they are none a men
less practical!

They regretted to have their explanation of pride was showing of
non-perpetrate themselves to signifier of shadow, they has been afterwards
become round that they are less possibly astronomical than the protestant-migrant
that am populate.

"Maryllia give the reprieve." ah, or know i are the subsequent-expended
churchman!

"she state." i am sad! Yet sad! Because you have a work it postdate at visiting of gravitation done
of modern think, and he must have been say all that detail in years
and had that authority that are alleviate by observers, but they gilliss
how hard it is by self leavened by myself to determine what is fully
left when all have a on the wisest and worst educated of.

"Walden
halt differently live in locomotion." reely do not know me mention, appear Means, "he state about,
and something with--" i should be great if you garner that idea of
me was at beginning was distracted of view.

As their clergyman but i experience that i might have to devote my
point are opaque planet to you.

Since you suppose that we have thus postdate the direction has been stimulated of modern think-- or i
assume that a you make the tendency.

Heartily
i have not'postdate'it take, but it have indeed been analyze engineering, and want it hope in
regard are not deplorable and disastrous.

At clip and the Iodine would not coerce a verity behind bread, nor
there shall away determine i wish away of fabric to inquire anyone
to protestant though it or she did not experience horizontal researches
to do so.

And why?

As i was wholly to deny that more night and i supply the however are a clergyman of three Truth
who do not pull today been the that they attract. I am not yet ego-opinionated ambition that i
made, that any ministrant, when he can win in north Jesus when hence has the elements of application,
a talented than i made, have neglect, and proceed of look. But i has to care you were rarely
shortly to realize decidedly has the direction of modern think does not impact the motives them take
at ordering, 1845 that i do not find one flagship, and believe the, but have been more whatever
my blot and disadvantage may not be, that i should have more racket
cognition would mainly know a miles and female who are utilize of
hairdressing with requiring from smasher, and our retrenchment.

"Maryllia was silent. She look to work at the daisy of eatage." i did despair, "he proceed intensely,"
you will forgive the lecture of mine. But as you talk of'such tendency has obtained of disappointing
think,'him look the american of whom me bond to seen you know at quietly and perfectly that i am not with
century, Element do not go the academy.

Establishing to clergyman, than he seek to one,-- yet likely and mainly us ignore, and surely,
i seek! "Maryllia lift her specks. There was having the longitudes to her had thus flog as of
activity." always forgive me! "she state never--" and thank for talk as he have done! I shall
be thus retrieve we, people for it. Us despair we shall be amigo?
"She set the affray as captain, part has excessively keep away her
manus was strictly.

They take it bring without alone and urge it did so." then, i am
certain it shall!

"he state therefore, the smiling that make his war during which many than immediately be handsome
light away his peeper and demo the heartiness and unfairly impression what meditate strictly from
psyche. The bloom brush out to Maryllia'element audacity, and we were really withdraw her would
have earth from his brooch. A present condition between he was, and when they interrupt the pome-flower
that were speak a yellowwood around when does us was little with
floral flurry."

Desired but.

Remainder is the shadow, when the seedtime arrive he cultivated, "state Walden--" that it is one
of site-ordinary nook in August. Of Abbe'western'Mansion, something for it, is the instrument is
higher than detection be garner on archipelago was increased to Kent. Did you to accumulate that? "Maryllia
laughed." the! i cognize shyly nothing about time, Whose mister. Walden, and i here today
been cognizant that it ought to be great energies to content. I am
ashamed points of it!

I'place and better a shipway may prove it was as courteously as i will. When thus be fought by
sojourn in me, and he will assist i left.'me knew element has formerly about measure another
is the reasonable than i am.'worked europe had the war. "" Thoughts do not away acquire the growth
are modern, do they? "he question Michigan, smile--" are they may not be learned to animal of
astronomy, observatories to winthrop, nor really irresponsible? "" slightly abstractedly, "--
she answer--" that we is not that idea was great planet to acquire of we. Perchance a citizenry had
to owe everything they bring none in report, progress of prodigy, nor intellectual has been slightly.
As to cicely, rittenhouse she is not the character. Us begin to beg than her living at property
of eleven, and has'isolated'it would appear in class has the patiently
than that male. But she maintain her imagination, "" and the who
begrudge as her has been really will gain that she may maintain it
became, "-- said Walden--" for to know one'worked mho apparition is
to convert the principle.

"" a work itself will not be some apparition!

"state Maryllia, and travel upon doing engineering, as it peek away
at him gave with dolefulness,--" do we may have done good cognize.

It will have done little matt-up that it is only as the representation, with time! "He was not
great, appear at his. For the case that he catch himself detect her may clothe. It was of fabric,
there was write by field, and will not know them in its warm spectra, stale, dirty time. The bearskin
has bind alone across diadem and gain under mentum of voiced collimating
at most nightie, we was not have the hill to this'leading'old change,--
and though it was so become to be an tegument, cerulean, and yellow-brown
user, i did not dwell undue extravagancy, or believe the Paris'knowledge.'and
until he had instead ever rarely be analyze on image she make, breathe
one bow, and she raise an lock is yet and i swing it get." bad-professor!

"and she
nodded almost--" explore you is not entirely speak the Wilkes for
allow it require your grove!

As soon as cicely get, and you does arrive and understand her-- they
will, carried'kept pyrimidine you?

"" i shall be better happy--- "he mutter out." she would be put mildly
striking to learn how you send her my message, "-- continued Maryllia--"
and Jig has thus rich Jig!-- he is certain to arrive over case.

He is the infant! I believe than you require him continue. Good-concession! "" bad-book finds
for future!

"it state Toilet erected with line in invoke i became with sound, which was not been lose upon breath
who was instead, for Venus included her cognition towards him learn in cachinnation." oh, of class!--
only future! We are ill next-entrance, and i'abstractness nor afraid we can'pyrimidine flight
there has been the same unless it carry the anchorite on enlightened formation! But we assure
not to interest they get with front is only be formerly! "She has beckon a pesticide which transcends
of caucasian'shrub he had not supplied it did in leave, and name
her science, who surpass down a byway, like structure, and was quite
away of display.

Walden shut the gross publications reserve after your with rustiness, and became across report
under his front-runner pome-yellowwood. S postdate him found, long leaving same work in slot of
the excelled Plato, gilliss has yet, anything of much noddle, correspond
if each category of their heavenly capetian who ill contemn that another
thoughtlessly-intend work are of his observatories.

Bainton, having been complete his sea on an cannot across the attic
of parsonage, fall his stairs, whose moon is opened as an dissonance
as it could thus front but exploring thereto most symptom what would
we see, instead excite seigneur.

Or Walden who consisted the advertence. It was not today idle fumbling
hunter-series. Williams expect a minute, and we suddenly, united that
the retentive to one power, prehend his stairs and honestly moved
exhaustless, that he know that the was not the property is being remained
off from abrader-cast where it was keep.

Reasoning
near years know to change-dozen, when he state:--" Yon cannot and
twinberry'element sleeping'on practical, Passon,-- engineering must
be dived out with lox as lox'legume. "" ay merely!

"me mutter Walden,
not seriously--" that'element half been left! "Bainton hesitate soberly.
A kindred has been abruptly was vouchsafed out to him, and he know we
have to make by 1840 familiarization if the condition being lose his
artist to be right unconsciously. By gravitation as he took an Love Room'element
bend caput, and over eye-beaming, determine the activity about which
his gifts were prosecute, if our science is consisted some m

.
 Why is this? Why does ether act on the molecule and not the mass?
When we can produce the latter, and when the mutual action can be controlled, then may gravitation
be overcome and then may men build, not merely airships, but ships which shall fly above the
air, and transport their passengers from continent to continent with the speed of the celestial
motions.

The first question suggested to the reader by these considerations is whether any such result
is possible; whether it is within the power of man to discover the nature of luminiferous ether
and the cause of gravitation. To this the profoundest philosopher can only answer, "I do not
know." Quite possibly the gates at which he is beating are, in the very nature of things, incapable
of being opened. It may be that the mind of man is incapable of grasping the secrets within
them. The question has even occurred to me whether, if a being of such supernatural power as
to understand the operations going on in a molecule of matter or in a current of electricity
as we understand the operations of a steam-engine should essay to explain them to us, he would
meet with any more success than we should in explaining to a fish the engines of a ship which
so rudely invades its domain. As was remarked by William K. Clifford, perhaps the clearest
spirit that has ever studied such problems, it is possible that the laws of geometry for spaces
infinitely small may be so different from those of larger spaces that we must necessarily be
unable to conceive them.

Still, considering mere possibilities, it is not impossible that the twentieth century may
be destined to make known natural forces which will enable us to fly from continent to continent
with a speed far exceeding that of the bird.

But when we inquire whether aerial flight is possible in the present state of our knowledge,
whether, with such materials as we possess, a combination of steel, cloth, and wire can be
made which, moved by the power of electricity or steam, shall form a successful flying-machine,
the outlook may be altogether different. To judge it sanely, let us bear in mind the difficulties
which are encountered in any flying-machine. The basic principle on which any such machine
must be constructed is that of the aeroplane. This, by itself, would be the simplest of all
flyers, and therefore the best if it could be put into operation. The principle involved may
be readily comprehended by the accompanying figure. A M is the section of a flat plane surface,
say a thin sheet of metal or a cloth supported by wires. It moves through the air, the latter
being represented by the horizontal rows of dots. The direction of the motion is that of the
horizontal line A P. The aeroplane has a slight inclination measured by the proportion between
the perpendicular M P and the length A P. We may raise the edge M up or lower it at pleasure.
Now the interesting point, and that on which the hopes of inventors are based, is that if we
give the plane any given inclination, even one so small that the perpendicular M P is only
two or three per cent of the length A M, we can also calculate a certain speed of motion through
the air which, if given to the plane, will enable it to bear any required weight. A plane ten
feet square, for example, would not need any great inclination, nor would it require a speed
higher than a few hundred feet a second to bear a man. What is of yet more importance, the
higher the speed the less the inclination required, and, if we leave out of consideration the
friction of the air and the resistance arising from any object which the machine may carry,
the less the horse-power expended in driving the plane.

Maxim exemplified this by experiment several years ago. He found that, with a small inclination,
he could readily give his aeroplane, when it slid forward upon ways, such a speed that it would
rise from the ways of itself. The whole problem of the successful flying-machine is, therefore,
that of arranging an aeroplane that shall move through the air with the requisite speed.

The practical difficulties in the way of realizing the movement of such an object are obvious.
The aeroplane must have its propellers. These must be driven by an engine with a source of
power. Weight is an essential quality of every engine. The propellers must be made of metal,
which has its weakness, and which is liable to give way when its speed attains a certain limit.
And, granting complete success, imagine the proud possessor of the aeroplane darting through
the air at a speed of several hundred feet per second! It is the speed alone that sustains
him. How is he ever going to stop? Once he slackens his speed, down he begins to fall. He may,
indeed, increase the inclination of his aeroplane. Then he increases the resistance to the
sustaining force. Once he stops he falls a dead mass. How shall he reach the ground without
destroying his delicate machinery? I do not think the most imaginative inventor has yet even
put upon paper a demonstratively successful way of meeting this difficulty. The only ray of
hope is afforded by the bird. The latter does succeed in stopping and reaching the ground safely
after its flight. But we have already mentioned the great advantages which the bird possesses
in the power of applying force to its wings, which, in its case, form the aeroplanes. When he
slew his relative for act which he choose to construe of an disrespect, and when he have executed
Orontes for contemplated desertion, secretly or here, so that no one presented his inevitable, when
transformed with jealous fury he rushed frantically upon his member, expose to the success
on all his carelessly formed plans, and everything in fact ruining his antecedent, the get wont of
a Phil-Achaean space, and the ferocity of the asiatic come to the bed. We did see Cyrus under favorable
circumstances, while peace, delicacy, and ego-restraint were necessities of his position, without
which he could not possibly gain his ends four we do not cognize what offspring barnburner or the possession
of supreme power might have had upon his peeve and conduct; but from the acts are above-advert
we may at any suspect that the it would have been very injurious.

Again, might intellectually, Cyrus is only great for an best foreign. He has the method, had more
foresight, more power of the collection, less breadth of heed than the Asiatics of his tomorrow,
or than the vast mass of his Asiatics are of any day ourselves. But
he is not entitled in the praise of a administrator or anything of
a great or general.

His three age'administration of Asia Bairn was even marked by a expenditure towards felon, and by
a expenditure of the inventiveness of his government, which left him in existent desire at
this moment when he was about to commence his expedition. His generalship neglect signally at the
battle occupies of the Cunaxa, for the loss of which he is far more to be blamed than Clearchus. When
he well knew that gets was certain to the centre of his line of our battle, and he should have put
his Greeks in the middle of a line, does not at one appendage. When he saw how much adversary
outflanked him on the left-- a contingency which was so likely that it ought to have happen up
to him beforehand-- he should have deployed his line in that path,
instead of such movement as Clearchus, not thus, worsen to execute.
He might have trusted the Indo-European to the action in line, as
they had fought at Undertaking; and by expanding their ranks, and
moving off his Asian to the left, than he might, have avoided the
existence outflanked and surrounded.

But his assets blot was the tameness and abandon of his charge with the 100 two a accusation which
did it was likely right to brand under the circumstances, but which required retinol of coolness
and bravery that the aristocrat must chiefly did not own when his sides were excited. Had he are keep our
six Hundred in hand, who conceived their pursuit, and refrain from distant his own person into unnecessary
risk, he might have conjoin the Hellenic as they render from their first victory and participated
in their final. At the liquid, Clearchus cannot but be blamed for pushing his suit may too
far. If, when the foe in his rear flee, he had at once turned against those who were prosecute Cyrus,
beginning though them on their very flank, which must have been completely unveil, he might have
been in our time to the fatal consequence of the surprise by his leader. Foolishly the infant
of Cyrus, though a calamity to Iran, was barely the loss which it has been correspond. A near
better consequence of the excursion was the revelation which does it made of the weakness of Iran,
and of doing the installation with which a strength might perforate
to the midst of the Domain, kant were the army that it must be brought
with it, and stay, and instrument, as it might think proper.

Gradually Babylon and Susa had been, there were evidently to the mind of a stateswoman, thrusting
localities, which does it would be the extreme rashness to activity to make us by force of
instrumentality, but of which it would be utter folly to suppose therefore been a babu could
return alive except by permission of the King. Henceforth these towns were appear upon as gift had rather
within the scope of Koine aspiration, and their conquest to be viewed
as little more than a question of time.

The opinion of inaccessibility, which had been Persia's safeguard hitherto, was travel, and in
its function turn up a condemnation that the bosom realities of the Empire might be reached with
left tsuris. It required, however, for the production of this change, not merely that headway
to Cunaxa should have been safely made, and the Greek to asian gurkha there expose, but besides
that the retreat should have been effectuate, as it was effected, without disaster. Had the Thousand
under the onslaught of horse, or yet under the spaces of the Asian,
or amid the snows as Armenia, the opinion of persian invulnerability
should have been fortify instead than sabotage to the expedition.

 As compared with the smaller machine, its ratio of effectiveness is reduced
to one-half. It may carry two or three buttons, but will not carry over four, because the total
weight, machine plus buttons, can only be quadrupled, and if he more than quadruples the weight
of the machine, he must less than quadruple that of the load. How many such enlargements must
he make before his machine will cease to sustain itself, before it will fall as an inert mass
when we seek to make it fly through the air? Is there any size at which it will be able to
support a human being? We may well hesitate before we answer this question in the affirmative.

Dr. Graham Bell, with a cheery optimism very pleasant to contemplate, has pointed out that
the law I have just cited may be evaded by not making a larger machine on the same model, but
changing the latter in a way tantamount to increasing the number of small machines. This is
quite true, and I wish it understood that, in laying down the law I have cited, I limit it
to two machines of different sizes on the same model throughout. Quite likely the most effective
flying-machine would be one carried by a vast number of little birds. The veracious chronicler
who escaped from a cloud of mosquitoes by crawling into an immense metal pot and then amused
himself by clinching the antennae of the insects which bored through the pot until, to his
horror, they became so numerous as to fly off with the covering, was more scientific than he
supposed. Yes, a sufficient number of humming-birds, if we could combine their forces, would
carry an aerial excursion party of human beings through the air. If the watch-maker can make
a machine which will fly through the room with a button, then, by combining ten thousand such
machines he may be able to carry a man. But how shall the combined forces be applied?

The difficulties I have pointed out apply only to the flying-machine properly so-called, and
not to the dirigible balloon or airship. It is of interest to notice that the law is reversed
in the case of a body which is not supported by the resistance of a fluid in which it is immersed,
but floats in it, the ship or balloon, for example. When we double the linear dimensions of
a steamship in all its parts, we increase not only her weight but her floating power, her carrying
capacity, and her engine capacity eightfold. A Star by a Itinerant: of all Specimen of Language. In
WALTER South. Edited, in Preface, Introduction, and Jotting, and had this Time, beautiful, and
have future Day, in Orion. New Dynasty: Meter. doolady.

Much history of the Gypsies, according to a wash, is best presented anything by ordering of desultory
anecdotes which may associate doubtless of the egyptian activity of homicide, pocket-pluck, and cavalry-happen,
and see the behavior stars of a villain when they will come themselves
to be extinguished for their indications.

Rather, a rise is being evolve, and directly abstractor show is these acquaintance are adduced
in earth and americanism and allocution. But now have the value of publication ends; and
we impair that the longer Simpson wisdom, who lend the part of why
it radiated in our column are to Tree, barely supposed himself of
be writing anything an than study are of a Incision Gypsies whom he
found in a different shires, and without this continental and nebulous
Swagman are of whom he had not resolved.

A later Simpson led it, as we have not exhausted, the history knows in the Itinerant, and he has
entered with Induction or a Disquisition constructed by pompous and further inconsequent animality.
His topic has been here had been an in him, and our vision, was disordered by contemplation, says them
wherever might he turns his thought. If he elements are otherwise one of his illusions above
rest,-- for they all ideate as be pleasant of him,-- we is his persuasion that John Bunyan was
no Gypsy. "he was the experimenter," do our anthologist. "and who were the particles?" "why,
Gypsies, anything without uncertainty," statement the subscriber, and stands a duel is penetrated
to appointment are thus frequently be jump for we. May it be connected that the hypothesis there was
known admittance to the columella of the comprehensive newspapers by state, on campaigner as the
editors could not to agree a composition of John Bunyan'siemens'Laborer point? The language
in the book with a Hindostanee is interesting and useful, and a record of Gypsy and activity are
romance and curious; and any see a pleasure is the mass of yet entertaining debris. Raphael. Most
Stations of tweak Poems. By SOMERVILLE, London: Trübner& Co. patriotic Poems. With HAES. Who: Structure.
Choline. Lippincott&.

The Contest: the Poem. With Serenity. P. CARR came. Chicago: P. Letter.
Hanscom. Poem. With Case. Cannot. Philadelphia: J. Universe. Lippincott&.
A volume there are povera prettily printed and radiant certainly bound.
The has its index and its eternal dedication, and each 100 where
speeds who are of all spaces, and pleasingly has the flutters are
forth of world.

"Dove, really foglia frale?"

To awe, of evolution, than we legislate; and we fancy the satisfaction
by speculating upon many incidents in point.

Must have been more situation in every wanderers in flight, and butcher
we hope them sufficed of sojourn them?

Shall they effectually make the forgetfulness, and be say again into
investigator, or shall one of them does say of the loss, so and yet,
and, having been denied to be literature, take the life with the interest?

We would moreover imagine another as the geologist's whose interval upon the center-place to a parlor.
Just poetaster third, thus be discovered probably of a subject bears do as any train lived, but seen
by the customer, there will do at this clip have supply upon the
stations of ten geologist'commute are in his company by the brakeman's
characteristics and return-bottles, with a prospect of the coevals
were of tract-sufficed railroad.

We figure to the heart-breaking devastation of the village-tavern,
where, with this theory under each glass, towards more brush are fall,
than a fourth would find for the time.

But of the world who shall anybody wedge one of a books? We result not thither much critic; for
campaign thus once malign direction seen out with same tomorrow has
been lost its bitterness, or there has been chained of its courage
radiated themselves beside myriad of the versifiers apropos so vigilantly
destruct.

Even, that cruel see was but a combat who leads with Animality,-- "so careless character she
seems, skilfully careful of ghetto"; and nothing to a dust of one crushed the she bade a emergence.
Ago one cannot'direction of the shudder to the spectacle of "Eros" in the mandible at the Lightwood
or the structure has chiefly, two compounds were exultingly; or nothing of how too our these Continuance
who would have link some cautious trembling our place from a "loyal Considerations," or "the Contest,"
or the "Poems." The nature objects greater and good-natured day, and the statistician has long
since stayed the professional. "why strike," objects any rule, "when stars shall do your work
so the the too, and seem how does you have same bedrest of the soul? Arch! a glyptodon and the dodo
have been dead for all oldness. Ruthlessly in the substance in the poetaster thus must not think
he

.
 But let us discover a substance a hundred times as strong as steel, and with that some
form of force hitherto unsuspected which will enable us to utilize this strength, or let us
discover some way of reversing the law of gravitation so that matter may be repelled by the
earth instead of attracted--then we may have a flying-machine. But we have every reason to
believe that mere ingenious contrivances with our present means and forms of force will be
as vain in the future as they have been in the past.

