Enough of this sham antiquarianism.  Yes, it is in the matter of  the book, of course, that
collaboration shows; as for the manner,  it is superficially all mine, in the sense that the
last copy is  all in my hand.  Lloyd did not even put pen to paper in the Paris  scenes or
the Barbizon scene; it was no good; he wrote and often  rewrote all the rest; I had the best
service from him on the  character of Nares.  You see, we had been just meeting the man, and
his memory was full of the man's words and ways.  And Lloyd is an  impressionist, pure and
simple.  The great difficulty of  collaboration is that you can't explain what you mean.  I
know what  kind of effect I mean a character to give - what kind of TACHE he  is to make; but
how am I to tell my collaborator in words?  Hence  it was necessary to say, 'Make him So-and-so';
and this was all  right for Nares and Pinkerton and Loudon Dodd, whom we both knew,  but for
Bellairs, for instance - a man with whom I passed ten  minutes fifteen years ago - what was
I to say? and what could Lloyd  do?  I, as a personal artist, can begin a character with only
a  haze in my head, but how if I have to translate the haze into words  before I begin?  In
our manner of collaboration (which I think the  only possible - I mean that of one person being
responsible, and  giving the COUP DE POUCE to every part of the work) I was spared  the obviously
hopeless business of trying to explain to my  collaborator what STYLE I wished a passage to
be treated in.  These  are the times that illustrate to a man the inadequacy of spoken  language.
Now - to be just to written language - I can (or could)  find a language for my every mood,
but how could I TELL any one  beforehand what this effect was to be, which it would take every
art that I possessed, and hours and hours of deliberate labour and  selection and rejection,
to produce?  These are the impossibilities  of collaboration.  Its immediate advantage is to
focus two minds  together on the stuff, and to produce in consequence an  extraordinarily greater
richness of purview, consideration, and  invention.  The hardest chapter of all was 'Cross
Questions and  Crooked Answers.'  You would not believe what that cost us before  it assumed
the least unity and colour.  Lloyd wrote it at least  thrice, and I at least five times - this
is from memory.  And was  that last chapter worth the trouble it cost?  Alas, that I should
ask the question!  Two classes of men - the artist and the  educationalist - are sworn, on
soul and conscience, not to ask it.   You get an ordinary, grinning, red-headed boy, and you
have to  educate him.  Faith supports you; you give your valuable hours, the  boy does not
seem to profit, but that way your duty lies, for which  you are paid, and you must persevere.
Education has always seemed  to me one of the few possible and dignified ways of life.  A 
sailor, a shepherd, a schoolmaster - to a less degree, a soldier -  and (I don't know why,
upon my soul, except as a sort of  schoolmaster's unofficial assistant, and a kind of acrobat
in  tights) an artist, almost exhaust the category.

If I had to begin again - I know not - SI JEUNESSE SAVAIT, SI  VIEILLESSE POUVAIT . . . I know
not at all - I believe I should try  to honour Sex more religiously.  The worst of our education
is that  Christianity does not recognise and hallow Sex.  It looks askance  at it, over its
shoulder, oppressed as it is by reminiscences of  hermits and Asiatic self-tortures.  It is
a terrible hiatus in our  modern religions that they cannot see and make venerable that which
they ought to see first and hallow most.  Well, it is so; I cannot  be wiser than my generation.

But no doubt there is something great in the half-success that has  attended the effort of
turning into an emotional religion, Bald  Conduct, without any appeal, or almost none, to the
figurative,  mysterious, and constitutive facts of life.  Not that conduct is  not constitutive,
but dear! it's dreary!  On the whole, conduct is  better dealt with on the cast-iron 'gentleman'
and duty formula,  with as little fervour and poetry as possible; stoical and short.

. . . There is a new something or other in the wind, which  exercises me hugely:  anarchy,
- I mean, anarchism.  People who  (for pity's sake) commit dastardly murders very basely, die
like  saints, and leave beautiful letters behind 'em (did you see  Vaillant to his daughter?
it was the New Testament over again);  people whose conduct is inexplicable to me, and yet
their spiritual  life higher than that of most.  This is just what the early  Christians must
have seemed to the Romans.  Is this, then, a new  DRIVE among the monkeys?  Mind you, Bob,
if they go on being  martyred a few years more, the gross, dull, not unkindly bourgeois  may
get tired or ashamed or afraid of going on martyring; and the  anarchists come out at the top
just like the early Christians.   That is, of course, they will step into power as a PERSONNEL,
but  God knows what they may believe when they come to do so; it can't  be stranger or more
improbable than what Christianity had come to  be by the same time.

Your letter was easily read, the pagination presented no  difficulty, and I read it with much
edification and gusto.  To look  back, and to stereotype one bygone humour - what a hopeless
thing!   The mind runs ever in a thousand eddies like a river between  cliffs.  You (the ego)
are always spinning round in it, east, west,  north, and south.  You are twenty years old,
and forty, and five,  and the next moment you are freezing at an imaginary eighty; you  are
never the plain forty-four that you should be by dates.  (The  most philosophical language
is the Gaelic, which has NO PRESENT  TENSE - and the most useless.)  How, then, to choose some
former  age, and stick there?

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO SIR HERBERT MAXWELL

VAILIMA, SAMOA, SEPTEMBER 10, 1894.

DEAR SIR HERBERT MAXWELL, - I am emboldened by reading your very  interesting Rhind Lectures
to put to you a question:  What is my  name, Stevenson?

I find it in the forms Stevinetoun, Stevensoune, Stevensonne,  Stenesone, Stewinsoune, M'Stein,
and MacStephane.  My family, and  (as far as I can gather) the majority of the inglorious clan,
hailed from the borders of Cunningham and Renfrew, and the upper  waters of the Clyde.  In
the Barony of Bothwell was the seat of the  laird Stevenson of Stevenson; but, as of course
you know, there is  a parish in Cunningham and places in Peebles and Haddington bearing  the
same name.

If you can at all help me, you will render me a real service which  I wish I could think of
some manner to repay. - Believe me, yours  truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

P.S. - I should have added that I have perfect evidence before me  that (for some obscure reason)
Stevenson was a favourite alias with  the M'Gregors.

Letter:  TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

[VAILIMA], OCTOBER 8TH 1894.

MY DEAR CUMMY, - So I hear you are ailing?  Think shame to  yourself!  So you think there is
nothing better to be done with  time than that? and be sure we can all do much ourselves to
decide  whether we are to be ill or well! like a man on the gymnastic bars.   We are all pretty
well.  As for me, there is nothing the matter  with me in the world, beyond the disgusting
circumstance that I am  not so young as once I was.  Lloyd has a gymnastic machine, and  practises
upon it every morning for an hour:  he is beginning to be  a kind of young Samson.  Austin
grows fat and brown, and gets on  not so ill with his lessons, and my mother is in great price.
We  are having knock-me-down weather for heat; I never remember it so  hot before, and I fancy
it means we are to have a hurricane again  this year, I think; since we came here, we have
not had a single  gale of wind!  The Pacific is but a child to the North Sea; but  when she
does get excited, and gets up and girds herself, she can  do something good.  We have had a
very interesting business here.   I helped the chiefs who were in prison; and when they were
set  free, what should they do but offer to make a part of my road for  me out of gratitude?
Well, I was ashamed to refuse, and the trumps  dug my road for me, and put up this inscription
on a board:-

'CONSIDERING THE GREAT LOVE OF HIS EXCELLENCY TUSITALA IN HIS  LOVING CARE OF US IN OUR TRIBULATION
IN THE PRISON WE HAVE MADE  THIS GREAT GIFT; IT SHALL NEVER BE MUDDY, IT SHALL GO ON FOR EVER,
THIS ROAD THAT WE HAVE DUG!'  We had a great feast when it was  done, and I read them a kind
of lecture, which I dare say Auntie  will have, and can let you see.  Weel, guid bye to ye,
and joy be  wi' ye!  I hae nae time to say mair.  They say I'm gettin' FAT - a  fact! - Your
laddie, with all love,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO JAMES PAYN

VAILIMA, SAMOA, NOV. 4, 1894.

MY DEAR JAMES PAYN, - I am asked to relate to you a little incident  of domestic life at Vailima.
I had read your GLEAMS OF MEMORY, No.  1; it then went to my wife, to Osbourne, to the cousin
that is  within my gates, and to my respected amanuensis, Mrs. Strong.   Sunday approached.
In the course of the afternoon I was attracted  to the great 'all - the winders is by Vanderputty,
which upon  entering I beheld a memorable scene.  The floor was bestrewn with  the forms of
midshipmen from the CURACOA - 'boldly say a wilderness  of gunroom' - and in the midst of this
sat Mrs. Strong throned on  the sofa and reading aloud GLEAMS OF MEMORY.  They had just come
the length of your immortal definition of boyhood in the concrete,  and I had the pleasure
to see the whole party dissolve under its  influence with inextinguishable laughter.  I thought
this was not  half bad for arthritic gout!  Depend upon it, sir, when I go into  the arthritic
gout business, I shall be done with literature, or at  least with the funny business.  It is
quite true I have my  battlefields behind me.  I have done perhaps as much work as  anybody
else under the most deplorable conditions.  But two things  fall to be noticed:  In the first
place, I never was in actual  pain; and in the second, I was never funny.  I'll tell you the
worst day that I remember.  I had a haemorrhage, and was not  allowed to speak; then, induced
by the devil, or an errant doctor,  I was led to partake of that bowl which neither cheers
nor  inebriates - the castor-oil bowl.  Now, when castor-oil goes right,  it is one thing;
but when it goes wrong, it is another.  And it  went WRONG with me that day.  The waves of
faintness and nausea  succeeded each other for twelve hours, and I do feel a legitimate  pride
in thinking that I stuck to my work all through and wrote a  good deal of Admiral Guinea (which
I might just as well not have  written for all the reward it ever brought me) in spite of the
barbarous bad conditions.  I think that is my great boast; and it  seems a little thing alongside
of your GLEAMS OF MEMORY illustrated  by spasms of arthritic gout.  We really should have an
order of  merit in the trade of letters.  For valour, Scott would have had  it; Pope too; myself
on the strength of that castor-oil; and James  Payn would be a Knight Commander.  The worst
of it is, though Lang  tells me you exhibit the courage of Huish, that not even an order  can
alleviate the wretched annoyance of the business.  I have  always said that there is nothing
like pain; toothache, dumb-ague,  arthritic gout, it does not matter what you call it, if the
screw  is put upon the nerves sufficiently strong, there is nothing left  in heaven or in earth
that can interest the sufferer.  Still, even  to this there is the consolation that it cannot
last for ever.   Either you will be relieved and have a good hour again before the  sun goes
down, or else you will be liberated.  It is something  after all (although not much) to think
that you are leaving a brave  example; that other literary men love to remember, as I am sure
they will love to remember, everything about you - your sweetness,  your brightness, your helpfulness
to all of us, and in particular  those one or two really adequate and noble papers which you
have  been privileged to write during these last years. - With the  heartiest and kindest good-will,
I remain, yours ever,

R. L. S.

Letter:  TO LIEUTENANT EELES

VAILIMA, SAMOA, NOVEMBER 24, 1894.

MY DEAR EELES, - The hand, as you will perceive (and also the  spelling!), is Teuila's, but
the scrannel voice is what remains of  Tusitala's.  First of all, for business.  When you go
to London you  are to charter a hansom cab and proceed to the Museum.  It is  particular fun
to do this on Sundays when the Monument is shut up.   Your cabman expostulates with you, you
persist.  The cabman drives  up in front of the closed gates and says, 'I told you so, sir.'
You breathe in the porter's ears the mystic name of COLVIN, and he  immediately unfolds the
iron barrier.  You drive in, and doesn't  your cabman think you're a swell.  A lord mayor is
nothing to it.   Colvin's door is the only one in the eastern gable of the building.   Send
in your card to him with 'From R. L. S.' in the corner, and  the machinery will do the rest.
Henry James's address is 34 De  Vere Mansions West.  I cannot remember where the place is;
I cannot  even remember on which side of the park.  But it's one of those big  Cromwell Road-looking
deserted thoroughfares out west in Kensington  or Bayswater, or between the two; and anyway,
Colvin will be able  to put you on the direct track for Henry James.  I do not send  formal
introductions, as I have taken the liberty to prepare both  of them for seeing you already.

Hoskyn is staying with us.

It is raining dismally.  The Curacoa track is hardly passable, but  it must be trod to-morrow
by the degenerate feet of their successor  the Wallaroos.  I think it a very good account of
these last that  we don't think them either deformed or habitual criminals - they  seem to
be a kindly lot.

The doctor will give you all the gossip.  I have preferred in this  letter to stick to the
strictly solid and necessary.  With kind  messages from all in the house to all in the wardroom,
all in the  gunroom, and (may we dare to breathe it) to him who walks abaft,  believe me, my
dear Eeles, yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO SIR HERBERT MAXWELL

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 1, 1894.

DEAR SIR HERBERT, - Thank you very much for your long and kind  letter.  I shall certainly
take your advice and call my cousin, the  Lyon King, into council.  It is certainly a very
interesting  subject, though I don't suppose it can possibly lead to anything,  this connection
between the Stevensons and M'Gregors.  Alas! your  invitation is to me a mere derision.  My
chances of visiting Heaven  are about as valid as my chances of visiting Monreith.  Though
I  should like well to see you, shrunken into a cottage, a literary  Lord of Ravenscraig. 
I suppose it is the inevitable doom of all  those who dabble in Scotch soil; but really your
fate is the more  blessed.  I cannot conceive anything more grateful to me, or more  amusing
or more picturesque, than to live in a cottage outside your  own park-walls. - With renewed
thanks, believe me, dear Sir  Herbert, yours very truly,

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO ANDREW LANG

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 1, 1894.

MY DEAR LANG, - For the portrait of Braxfield, much thanks!  It is  engraved from the same
Raeburn portrait that I saw in '76 or '77  with so extreme a gusto that I have ever since been
Braxfield's  humble servant, and am now trying, as you know, to stick him into a  novel.  Alas!
one might as well try to stick in Napoleon.  The  picture shall be framed and hung up in my
study.  Not only as a  memento of you, but as a perpetual encouragement to do better with 
his Lordship.  I have not yet received the transcripts.  They must  be very interesting.  Do
you know, I picked up the other day an old  LONGMAN'S, where I found an article of yours that
I had missed,  about Christie's?  I read it with great delight.  The year ends  with us pretty
much as it began, among wars and rumours of wars,  and a vast and splendid exhibition of official
incompetence. -  Yours ever,

R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter:  TO EDMUND GOSSE

VAILIMA, SAMOA, DECEMBER 1, 1894.

I AM afraid, MY DEAR WEG, that this must be the result of bribery  and corruption!  The volume
to which the dedication stands as  preface seems to me to stand alone in your work; it is so
natural,  so personal, so sincere, so articulate in substance, and what you  always were sure
of - so rich in adornment.

Let me speak first of the dedication.  I thank you for it from the  heart.  It is beautifully
said, beautifully and kindly felt; and I  should be a churl indeed if I were not grateful,
and an ass if I  were not proud.  I remember when Symonds dedicated a book to me; I  wrote
and told him of 'the pang of gratified vanity' with which I  had read it.  The pang was present
again, but how much more sober  and autumnal - like your volume.  Let me tell you a story,
or  remind you of a story.  In the year of grace something or other,  anything between '76
and '78 I mentioned to you in my usual  autobiographical and inconsiderate manner that I was
hard up.  You  said promptly that you had a balance at your banker's, and could  make it convenient
to let me have a cheque, and I accepted and got  the money - how much was it? - twenty or perhaps
thirty pounds?  I  know not - but it was a great convenience.  The same evening, or  the next
day, I fell in conversation (in my usual autobiographical  and . . . see above) with a denizen
of the Savile Club, name now  gone from me, only his figure and a dim three-quarter view of
his  face remaining.  To him I mentioned that you had given me a loan,  remarking easily that
of course it didn't matter to you.  Whereupon  he read me a lecture, and told me how it really
stood with you  financially.  He was pretty serious; fearing, as I could not help  perceiving,
that I should take too light a view of the  responsibility and the service (I was always thought
too light -  the irresponsible jester - you remember.  O, QUANTUM MUTATUS AB  ILLO!)  If I
remember rightly, the money was repaid before the end  of the week - or, to be more exact and
a trifle pedantic, the  sennight - but the service has never been forgotten; and I send you
back this piece of ancient history, CONSULE PLANCO, as a salute for  your dedication, and propose
that we should drink the health of the  nameless one, who opened my eyes as to the true nature
of what you  did for me on that occasion.

But here comes my Amanuensis, so we'll get on more swimmingly now.   You will understand perhaps
that what so particularly pleased me in  the new volume, what seems to me to have so personal
and original a  note, are the middle-aged pieces in the beginning.  The whole of  them, I may
say, though I must own an especial liking to -

'I yearn not for the fighting fate, That holds and hath achieved; I live to watch and meditate
And dream - and be deceived.'

You take the change gallantly.  Not I, I must confess.  It is all  very well to talk of renunciation,
and of course it has to be done.   But, for my part, give me a roaring toothache!  I do like
to be  deceived and to dream, but I have very little use for either  watching or meditation.
I was not born for age.  And, curiously  enough, I seem to see a contrary drift in my work
from that which  is so remarkable in yours.  You are going on sedately travelling  through
your ages, decently changing with the years to the proper  tune.  And here am I, quite out
of my true course, and with nothing  in my foolish elderly head but love-stories.  This must
repose upon  some curious distinction of temperaments.  I gather from a phrase,  boldly autobiographical,
that you are - well, not precisely growing  thin.  Can that be the difference?  Come  to think
of it, Gosse, I believe the main distinction is that you  have a family growing up around you,
and I am a childless, rather  bitter, very clear-eyed, blighted youth.  I have, in fact, lost
the  path that makes it easy and natural for you to descend the hill.  I  am going at it straight.
And where I have to go down it is a  precipice.

I must not forget to give you a word of thanks for AN ENGLISH  VILLAGE.  It reminds me strongly
of Keats, which is enough to say;  and I was particularly pleased with the petulant sincerity
of the  concluding sentiment.

Well, my dear Gosse, here's wishing you all health and prosperity,  as well as to the mistress
and the bairns.  May you live long,  since it seems as if you would continue to enjoy life.
May you  write many more books as good as this one - only there's one thing  impossible, you
can never write another dedication that can give  the same pleasure to the vanished

TUSITALA.