This general had just returned from Hungary whither he had pursued Mansfeld, without being
able to obstruct his march, or prevent his junction with Bethlen Gabor.  Constantly persecuted
by fortune, but always superior to his fate, Mansfeld had made his way against countless difficulties,
through Silesia and Hungary to Transylvania, where, after all, he was not very welcome.  Relying
upon the assistance of England, and a powerful diversion in Lower Saxony, Gabor had again broken
the truce with the Emperor.  But in place of the expected diversion in his favour, Mansfeld
had drawn upon himself the whole strength of Wallenstein, and instead of bringing, required,
pecuniary assistance. The want of concert in the Protestant counsels cooled Gabor's ardour;
and he hastened, as usual, to avert the coming storm by a speedy peace. Firmly determined,
however, to break it, with the first ray of hope, he directed Mansfeld in the mean time to
apply for assistance to Venice.

Cut off from Germany, and unable to support the weak remnant of his troops in Hungary, Mansfeld
sold his artillery and baggage train, and disbanded his soldiers.  With a few followers, he
proceeded through Bosnia and Dalmatia, towards Venice.  New schemes swelled his bosom; but
his career was ended.  Fate, which had so restlessly sported with him throughout, now prepared
for him a peaceful grave in Dalmatia.  Death overtook him in the vicinity of Zara in 1626,
and a short time before him died the faithful companion of his fortunes, Christian, Duke of
Brunswick--two men worthy of immortality, had they but been as superior to their times as they
were to their adversities.

The King of Denmark, with his whole army, was unable to cope with Tilly alone; much less, therefore,
with a shattered force could he hold his ground against the two imperial generals.  The Danes
retired from all their posts on the Weser, the Elbe, and the Havel, and the army of Wallenstein
poured like a torrent into Brandenburg, Mecklenburg, Holstein and Sleswick.  That general,
too proud to act in conjunction with another, had dispatched Tilly across the Elbe, to watch,
as he gave out, the motions of the Dutch in that quarter; but in reality that he might terminate
the war against the king, and reap for himself the fruits of Tilly's conquests.  Christian
had now lost all his fortresses in the German States, with the exception of Gluckstadt; his
armies were defeated or dispersed; no assistance came from Germany; from England, little consolation;
while his confederates in Lower Saxony were at the mercy of the conqueror.  The Landgrave of
Hesse Cassel had been forced by Tilly, soon after the battle of Lutter, to renounce the Danish
alliance.  Wallenstein's formidable appearance before Berlin reduced the Elector of Brandenburgh
to submission, and compelled him to recognise, as legitimate, Maximilian's title to the Palatine
Electorate.  The greater part of Mecklenburgh was now overrun by imperial troops; and both
dukes, as adherents of the King of Denmark, placed under the ban of the empire, and driven
from their dominions.  The defence of the German liberties against illegal encroachments, was
punished as a crime deserving the loss of all dignities and territories; and yet this was but
the prelude to the still more crying enormities which shortly followed.

The secret how Wallenstein had purposed to fulfil his extravagant designs was now manifest.
He had learned the lesson from Count Mansfeld; but the scholar surpassed his master.  On the
principle that war must support war, Mansfeld and the Duke of Brunswick had subsisted their
troops by contributions levied indiscriminately on friend and enemy; but this predatory life
was attended with all the inconvenience and insecurity which accompany robbery.  Like a fugitive
banditti, they were obliged to steal through exasperated and vigilant enemies; to roam from
one end of Germany to another; to watch their opportunity with anxiety; and to abandon the
most fertile territories whenever they were defended by a superior army.  If Mansfeld and Duke
Christian had done such great things in the face of these difficulties, what might not be expected
if the obstacles were removed; when the army raised was numerous enough to overawe in itself
the most powerful states of the empire; when the name of the Emperor insured impunity to every
outrage; and when, under the highest authority, and at the head of an overwhelming force, the
same system of warfare was pursued, which these two adventurers had hitherto adopted at their
own risk, and with only an untrained multitude?

Wallenstein had all this in view when he made his bold offer to the Emperor, which now seemed
extravagant to no one.  The more his army was augmented, the less cause was there to fear for
its subsistence, because it could irresistibly bear down upon the refractory states; the more
violent its outrages, the more probable was impunity.  Towards hostile states it had the plea
of right; towards the favourably disposed it could allege necessity.  The inequality, too,
with which it dealt out its oppressions, prevented any dangerous union among the states; while
the exhaustion of their territories deprived them of the power of vengeance.  Thus the whole
of Germany became a kind of magazine for the imperial army, and the Emperor was enabled to
deal with the other states as absolutely as with his own hereditary dominions.  Universal was
the clamour for redress before the imperial throne; but there was nothing to fear from the
revenge of the injured princes, so long as they appealed for justice.  The general discontent
was directed equally against the Emperor, who had lent his name to these barbarities, and the
general who exceeded his power, and openly abused the authority of his master.  They applied
to the Emperor for protection against the outrages of his general; but Wallenstein had no sooner
felt himself absolute in the army, than he threw off his obedience to his sovereign.

The exhaustion of the enemy made a speedy peace probable; yet Wallenstein continued to augment
the imperial armies until they were at least 100,000 men strong.  Numberless commissions to
colonelcies and inferior commands, the regal pomp of the commander-in-chief, immoderate largesses
to his favourites, (for he never gave less than a thousand florins,) enormous sums lavished
in corrupting the court at Vienna--all this had been effected without burdening the Emperor.
These immense sums were raised by the contributions levied from the lower German provinces,
where no distinction was made between friend and foe; and the territories of all princes were
subjected to the same system of marching and quartering, of extortion and outrage.  If credit
is to be given to an extravagant contemporary statement, Wallenstein, during his seven years
command, had exacted not less than sixty thousand millions of dollars from one half of Germany. Jack'mt
to standard up your wonderful honeymoon, y'know, but timer greater month is wearing on. But, with supper
ended, his pipe in his set and his feet resting so in the oven, he broached his subject. "young
for the road in the morning, Don?

The friends
had garner about the ready-the, plying him with questions, which he answered or discussed until an
meal was over, holding his own business comfortably in the inheritance.

Nothing but horseback for it now, the'they do say the settlers are
crowding up something small.  Had
he foreseen that he was abandoning the German States to the mercy of his officer, he would
have been sensible how dangerous to himself so absolute a general would prove.  The closer
the connexion became between the army, and the leader from whom flowed favour and fortune,
the more the ties which united both to the Emperor were relaxed.  Every thing, it is true,
was done in the name of the latter; but Wallenstein only availed himself of the supreme majesty
of the Emperor to crush the authority of other states.  His object was to depress the princes
of the empire, to destroy all gradation of rank between them and the Emperor, and to elevate
the power of the latter above all competition.  If the Emperor were absolute in Germany, who
then would be equal to the man intrusted with the execution of his will? The height to which
Wallenstein had raised the imperial authority astonished even the Emperor himself; but as the
greatness of the master was entirely the work of the servant, the creation of Wallenstein would
necessarily sink again into nothing upon the withdrawal of its creative hand.  Not without
an object, therefore, did Wallenstein labour to poison the minds of the German princes against
the Emperor.  The more violent their hatred of Ferdinand, the more indispensable to the Emperor
would become the man who alone could render their ill-will powerless. His design unquestionably
was, that his sovereign should stand in fear of no one in all Germany--besides himself, the
source and engine of this despotic power.

As a step towards this end, Wallenstein now demanded the cession of Mecklenburg, to be held
in pledge till the repayment of his advances for the war.  Ferdinand had already created him
Duke of Friedland, apparently with the view of exalting his own general over Bavaria; but an
ordinary recompense would not satisfy Wallenstein's ambition.  In vain was this new demand,
which could be granted only at the expense of two princes of the empire, actively resisted
in the Imperial Council; in vain did the Spaniards, who had long been offended by his pride,
oppose his elevation.  The powerful support which Wallenstein had purchased from the imperial
councillors prevailed, and Ferdinand was determined, at whatever cost, to secure the devotion
of so indispensable a minister. For a slight offence, one of the oldest German houses was expelled
from their hereditary dominions, that a creature of the Emperor might be enriched by their
spoils (1628).

Wallenstein now began to assume the title of generalissimo of the Emperor by sea and land.
Wismar was taken, and a firm footing gained on the Baltic.  Ships were required from Poland
and the Hanse towns to carry the war to the other side of the Baltic; to pursue the Danes into
the heart of their own country, and to compel them to a peace which might prepare the way to
more important conquests.  The communication between the Lower German States and the Northern
powers would be broken, could the Emperor place himself between them, and encompass Germany,
from the Adriatic to the Sound, (the intervening kingdom of Poland being already dependent
on him,) with an unbroken line of territory.  If such was the Emperor's plan, Wallenstein had
a peculiar interest in its execution.  These possessions on the Baltic should, he intended,
form the first foundation of a power, which had long been the object of his ambition, and which
should enable him to throw off his dependence on the Emperor.

To effect this object, it was of extreme importance to gain possession of Stralsund, a town
on the Baltic.  Its excellent harbour, and the short passage from it to the Swedish and Danish
coasts, peculiarly fitted it for a naval station in a war with these powers.  This town, the
sixth of the Hanseatic League, enjoyed great privileges under the Duke of Pomerania, and totally
independent of Denmark, had taken no share in the war.  But neither its neutrality, nor its
privileges, could protect it against the encroachments of Wallenstein, when he had once cast
a longing look upon it.

The request he made, that Stralsund should receive an imperial garrison, had been firmly and
honourably rejected by the magistracy, who also refused his cunningly demanded permission to
march his troops through the town, Wallenstein, therefore, now proposed to besiege it.

The independence of Stralsund, as securing the free navigation of the Baltic, was equally important
to the two Northern kings.  A common danger overcame at last the private jealousies which had
long divided these princes.  In a treaty concluded at Copenhagen in 1628, they bound themselves
to assist Stralsund with their combined force, and to oppose in common every foreign power
which should appear in the Baltic with hostile views.  Christian IV.  also threw a sufficient
garrison into Stralsund, and by his personal presence animated the courage of the citizens.
Some ships of war which Sigismund, King of Poland, had sent to the assistance of the imperial
general, were sunk by the Danish fleet; and as Lubeck refused him the use of its shipping,
this imperial generalissimo of the sea had not even ships enough to blockade this single harbour.

Nothing could appear more adventurous than to attempt the conquest of a strongly fortified
seaport without first blockading its harbour. Wallenstein, however, who as yet had never experienced
a check, wished to conquer nature itself, and to perform impossibilities.  Stralsund, open
to the sea, continued to be supplied with provisions and reinforcements; yet Wallenstein maintained
his blockade on the land side, and endeavoured, by boasting menaces, to supply his want of
real strength.  "I will take this town," said he, "though it were fastened by a chain to the
heavens."  The Emperor himself, who might have cause to regret an enterprise which promised
no very glorious result, joyfully availed himself of the apparent submission and acceptable
propositions of the inhabitants, to order the general to retire from the town. Wallenstein
despised the command, and continued to harass the besieged by incessant assaults.  As the Danish
garrison, already much reduced, was unequal to the fatigues of this prolonged defence, and
the king was unable to detach any further troops to their support, Stralsund, with Christian's
consent, threw itself under the protection of the King of Sweden.  The Danish commander left
the town to make way for a Swedish governor, who gloriously defended it.  Here Wallenstein's
good fortune forsook him; and, for the first time, his pride experienced the humiliation of
relinquishing his prey, after the loss of many months and of 12,000 men.  The necessity to
which he reduced the town of applying for protection to Sweden, laid the foundation of a close
alliance between Gustavus Adolphus and Stralsund, which greatly facilitated the entrance of
the Swedes into Germany.

