Feb. 20. i dident get the prise. you see yesterday John Flanygin spelt more words write than
Gimmy Fitsgerald and Gimmy went to the foot. when we marked slates Gimmy marked 9 of my words
wrong out of 20, and i had to go down most to where John Flannygin was. old Francis said he
dident beleave i had aught to have staid at the head so long as i did and i was afraid he wood
lick me and John but he dident. he said he was ashamed and disapointed in me but i gess he
was not the only one who was disapointed. i had told Pewt and Beany i wood treat on what father
wood give me for getting the prise. Pewt and Beany was both mad, and are going to lay for Gimmy.

Feb. 21, i forgot to say what the wether was most every day this weak. it has been brite and
fair most of the time, only it snowed two days and raned most of one day. brite and fair today
and cold as time.

Feb. 23, Clowdy and cold. Pop Clark had to crawl through a chair today. he went through so
fast old Francis only hit him 2 bats. Tady Finton and Nigger Bell both got licked. Tady dident
cry or holler a bit, but Nigger hollered just like a girl. i supposed Nigger was more of a
man than that.

Feb. 24, Beany and Pewt got punching today in school and old Francis made them stand on the
platform with their arms round each others neck all the forenoon, i bet they felt pretty cheep.
Brite and fair.

Feb. 25, i have got a new pair of britches at erl and Cutts. i gess Beany aint the only one
which has good clothes eather.

Feb. 26. Nothing particular today. Went down to old Heads shop to see the stewdcats ride velosipedes.
There is going to be a race in the town hall tomorrow night.

Feb. 27. Father said i cood go to the velosipede race if i woodent miss splitting my kindlings
for a week. i did miss them twice but mother dident tell him and if he dont ask her before
tonight i am all right.

Feb. 28. Last night went to the velosipede race. it was jest ripping. i got down before the
door opened. Bob Carter came pretty soon but he woodent let us in until the ticket man came.
Mr. Watson was the ticket man and he let me and Beany and Shinny Thing in free. they had a
lot of seats in the center of the hall, and the rest round the edges, and a open track around
the hall. On the platform set Bill Morrill and Dave Quimby and John Getchell and Eben Folsom.
Most of the fellers in the race were stewdcats and most of the stewdcats and the girls had
the seats in the center of the hall. The stewdcats who were to race were Stone and Stuart and
Lee and Clifford and August Belmont and Swift and Nichols and George Kent and Cutler and Johnny
Heald and Gear and Burly and Bob Morison. the townies were Charlie Gerish and Doctor Prey.
each feller rode round the hall twice to get going like time, and then Dave Quimby hollered
go and he had to ride around the hall until he had rid a quarter of a mile.

When the stewdcats rode all the other stewdcats yelled and the girls waved their handkerchiefs
and the band played and the excitement was dreadful.

After a while Doctor Prey came out and all the townies got up and cheered and the band played
the star spangled banner, because Doctor fit in the war, and Doctor took of his hat and bowed
and then rode round like time. he rode faster than most every one of them except Stone and
Stuart and Lee and Clifford and Belmont and Swift. i guess if Doc hadent fit so hard in the
war he wood have beat them all. and then Charlie Gerish came out and all the townies hollered
again and Charlie made his legs go so fast that they coodent hardly see them, and jest before
the last time around his velosipede slipped and Charlie went fluking over three settees. he
jumped on his velosipede again and went around with his britches all torn but he dident get
around quite quick enuf to beat Stone, then the townies yelled and said it was a cheat and
the stewdcats hissed, and some of the townies said they could lick the stewdcats, and the stewdcats
said they wasent man enuf and it looked as if there was a going to be a row when Charlie Gerrish
got up and said he was beat fair and there wasent anything to get mad about, and that he would
like to shake hands with the stewdcat which beat him, and he wood like to race him another
time but he coodent then because he hurt his leg, and then they shook hands and every one felt
buly, and the stewdcats said hooray for Charlie and the townies hollered hooray for Stone,
and Bill Morrill made a speech and give the prise to Stone and the band played and we all went
home. i bet Doc. Prey and Charlie Gerrish can lick any two stewdcats in the hall.

Mar. 2. i went to a show in the town hall tonight. it was a singing show called the haymakers.
it was splendid. Mr. Gale got it up. they have been practising all winter. Alice Gewell was
a dary maid and Charlie Lane was a katydid, and lots of others sung. it was splendid.

Mar. 3. Cloudy but no rane. went down to Langley's store for some juju paste, saw a fite. Old
Kize tried to arest Bill Hartnit and Bill lammed time out of him and after a while old Swain
came up and arrested him.

Mar. 4. Brite and fair. Went to church to-day, the fernace smoked so the people had to come
home. They say they will have it fixed before next Sunday. i hope not.

Mar. 5. School closes tomorrow. i got kept after school tonight for whispering to Cawcaw.

Mar. 6. School closed today and we voted for prises. Mr. Gordon give 4 prizes for the 2 best
fellers and 2 best girls for the term. So we voted for them. Most of the fellers wanted to
vote for Jenny Morrison because she was the prettiest girl there and can go the greeshun bend
better than enny girl in the school. and most of the girls dident like Jenny Morrison and wanted
to vote for Dora Moses and Mary Luverin, and the girls wanted to vote for Lees Moses because
he was polite to them and rather go with the girls than the boys and we holler at him, but
he can fite for i saw him lick Gim Erly one day, and Gim Erly can rassle better than enny one
but Jack Melvil. well most of the fellows wanted to vote for Tady Finton or Pop Clark or Skinny
Bruce because they never get mad or cry when they are licked and make lots of fun, but we knew
they coodent get the prize for they are all the time raising time and getting licked and so
we voted for Honey Donovan and Moses Gordon, and when the votes was counted Dora Moses and
Mary Luvering got the prizes for the girls and Mose Gordon and Nigger Bell for the boys. That
was all write about Dora Moses and Mary Luverin because they was the best girls and always
went together, but we dident like it very well about Mose and Nigger, only we thought that
so long as Mose's father give the prizes Mose ought to have one. i gess most of the girls must
have voted for Nig, because they was mad with Lees Moses. i know what they was mad at too.

Then the first class give old Francis a present of some books and when he turned over the leaves
there was twenty dollars there, and old Francis was surprised and made a fine speech, and the
people all clapped becaus he made such a good speech. i heard him saying it over the night
before when i was kept after school. No school for 2 weeks.

Mar. 7. When my father was a boy he was the best fiter in this town.

Mar. 9. Went down to Fatty Melchers today to make a violin, we cut a piece of wood the shape
of a violin then take some horsehairs and strech them over a brige and you can play a tune
on them. in school i learnt to play on a piece of india rubber. you pull a piece of elastic
out of your congres boot and hold it in your teeth and pull it tite and snap it with your fingers
and you can play tunes that you can hear but no one else can. old Francis saw me snapping the
elastic and came and took it away. i have got plenty more in my boot. i am saving money to
buy me a cornet. when i get enuf i am a going to play in the band. +++

Mar. 10. plesent day. old Si Smiths big white dog and a bull dog had an awful fite today. neether
licked and they had to squert water on them to seperate them. they dident make no noise, only
jest hung write on to each others gozzles. my aunt Sarah said it was dredful, and she staid
to the window to see how dredful it was.

Mar. 11, 186- Went to church in the morning. the fernace was all write. Mister Lennard preeched
about loving our ennymies, and told every one if he had any angry feelings toward ennyone to
go to him and shake hands and see how much better you wood feel. i know how it is becaus when
me and Beany are mad we dont have eny fun and when we make up the one who is to blam always
wants to treet. why when Beany was mad with me becaus i went home from Gil Steels surprise
party with Lizzie Towle, Ed Towles sister, he woodent speak to me for 2 days, and when we made
up he treated me to ice cream with 2 spoons and he let me dip twice to his once. he took pretty
big dips to make up. Beany is mad if enny of the fellers go with Lizzie Towle. she likes Beany
better than she does enny of the fellers and Beany ought to be satisfied, but sometimes he
acks mad when i go down there to fite roosters with Ed. i gess he needent worry much, no feller
isnt going to leave of fiting roosters to go with no girls. well i most forgot what i was going
to say, but after church i went up to Micky Gould who was going to fite me behind the school
house, and said Micky lets be friends and Micky said. huh old Skinny, i can lick you in 2 minits
and i said you aint man enuf and he called me a nockneed puke, and i called him a wall eyed
lummix and he give me a paist in the eye and i gave him a good one in the mouth, and then we
rassled and Micky threw me and i turned him, and he got hold of my new false bosom and i got
hold of his hair, and the fellers all hollered hit him Micky, paist him Skinny, and Mister
Purington, Pewts father pulled us apart and i had Mickys paper collar and necktie and some
of his hair and he had my false bosom and when i got home father made me go to bed and stay
there all the afternoon for fiting, but i gess he dident like my losing my false bosom. ennyway
he asked me how many times i hit Micky and which licked. he let me get up at supper time. next
time i try to love my ennymy i am a going to lick him first.

Went to a Sunday school concert in the evening. Keene and Cele sung now i lay me down to sleep.
they was a lot of people sung together and Mister Gale beat time. Charlie Gerish played the
violin and Miss Packerd sung. i was scart when Keene and Cele sung for i was afraid they would
break down, but they dident, and people said they sung like night horks. i gess if they knowed
how night horks sung they woodent say much. father felt pretty big and to hear him talk you
wood think he did the singing. he give them ten cents apeace. i dident get none. you gest wait,
old man till i get my cornet.

Went to a corcus last night. me and Beany were in the hall in the afternoon helping Bob Carter
sprinkle the floor and put on the sordust. the floor was all shiny with wax and aufully slipery.
so Bob got us to put on some water to take off the shiny wax. well write in front of the platform
there is a low platform where they get up to put in their votes and then step down and Beany
said, dont put any water there only jest dry sordust. so i dident. well that night we went
erly to see the fun. Gim Luverin got up and said there was one man which was the oldest voter
in town and he ought to vote the first, the name of this destinkuished sitizen was John Quincy
Ann Pollard. then old mister Pollard got up and put in his vote and when he stepped down his
heels flew up and he went down whak on the back of his head and 2 men lifted him up and lugged
him to a seat, and then Ed Derborn, him that rings the town bell, stepped up pretty lively
and went flat and swore terrible, and me and Beany nearly died we laffed so. well it kept on,
people dident know what made them fall, and Gim Odlin sat write down in his new umbrella and
then they sent me down stairs for a pail of wet sordust and when i was coming up i heard an
auful whang, and when i got up in the hall they were lugging old mister Stickney off to die
and they put water on his head and lugged him home in a hack. they say Bob Carter will lose
his place. me and Beany dont know what to do. if we dont tell, Bob will lose his place and
if we do we will get licked.

Mar. 12. Mister Stickney is all write today. gosh you bet me and Beany are glad.

Mar. 13, 186- brite and fair. Mr. Gravel has bought old Heads carrige shop. he is a dandy and
wears shiny riding boots and a stove pipe hat and a velvet coat and goes with Dan Ranlet and
George Perkins and Johny Gibson and the other dandies. i went down today and watched Fatty
Walker stripe some wheels.

Mar. 14. clowdy. Elkins and Graves had an oxion to-night. Beany got ten cents for going round
town ringing a bell and hollering oxion. i went with Beany and it was lots of fun. Beany wouldent
treet. he says he is saving money for something. i know what it is it is a valintine for Lizzie
Tole. it was mean of Beany not to treet becaus i did as much hollering as he did.

Mar. 15. The funniest thing hapened to-day you ever saw. after brekfast me and father took
a walk and then went and set down on the big school steps. father was telling me some of the
things he and Gim Melcher used to do. father must have been a ripper when he was young. well
ennyway while we was talking old Ike Shute came along through the school yard. Ike wears specks
and always carries a little basket on his arm. he cant see very well, and father said to me,
now you jest keep still and you will see some fun and when Ike came along father changed his
voice so that it sounded awfully growly and said where in the devil are you going with that
basket, and Ike was scart most to deth and said only a little way down here sir and father
said, move on sir and move dam lively and i nearly died laffing to see Ike hiper. well after
a while i see Ike coming back with old Swane and old Kize the policemen. i tell you i was scart
but father only laffed and said you keep still and i will fix it all right. so when they came
up he said to old Kize what is the trouble Filander and he said Mr. Shute here has been thretened
by some drunken rascal, and father looked aufuly surprised and said that is an infernal shame,
when did it happen Isak, and Ike said about fifteen minits ago and father said we have been
here about as long as that and i dident see the scoundrel. how did he look Isak, and Ike said
i coodent see him very well George but he was a big man and he had a awfu deep voice and father
said did he stagger enny and Ike said i coodent see wether he did or not but i cood tell he
was drunk by his voice. so old Swain and old Kize went down behind the school house and off
thru the carrige shop yard to see if they cood find him, and me and father walked home with
Ike to protect him and father said now Isak if ennyone insults you again jest come to me and
if i can catch him i will break every bone in his body, and father and Ike shook hands and
Ike shook hands with me and then we went home and father began to laff and laffed all the way
home and then he told mother and aunt Sarah and they said it was a shame to play such a trick
upon him and father laffed all the more and said Ike hadent had so much exercise for a year
and it wood do him good and give him something to think about. ennyway they said it was a shame
to teech me such things, and father said he would rather i wood be tuf than be like Ike, and
Aunt Sarah said i never wood be half as good as Ike for he never did a wrong thing in his life,
and father laffed and said he dident dass to for his mother wood shet him in the closet. it
was aufully funny, but i gess they was right. i shall never be half as good as Ike. i wonder
if old Swane and old Kize have caught that man yet.

Mar. 16. Pewt dreened 18 marbles and 2 chinees out of me to-day. we was playing first in a
hole. school today. sailed boats in the brook in J. Albert Clark's garden and got pretty wet.

Mar. 17. Scott Briggam has got some little flying squirrels. he is going to get me one for
thirty-five cents. i am going to take it out of my cornet money.

Mar. 18. Father wont let me play marbles in ernest. it aint enny fun dreening a feller and
then giving them back. i bet father didnt when he was a boy.

Mar. 19. Scott Briggam brought my squirrel today and i paid him 35 cents, 3 ten cents scrips
and five cents. i have got it in a bird cage.

Mar. 20. my squirrel got out of the cage last nite and father found him in the water pail drownded.
father got up in the night and got a dipper and drank some water out of that pail, he dident
eat any brekfast because he was thinking that the squirrel might have been in the pail then.
i wonder if it was. ennyway 35 cents of my cornet money has gone up.

Mar. 23. school today. went down to Pewts to draw pictures. Charlie Woodbury can draw the best,
then Pewt, and then me. Beany dont like to draw. we was talking about what we was going to
be when we grew up. Charlie Woodbury is going to be a picture painter, Pewt is going to be
a lawyer, Potter Gorham and Chick Chickering are going to stuff birds for a living, Beany is
going to be a hack driver, Gim Wingit is going to run a newspaper, Cawcaw Harding is going
to be a piscopal minister becaus he says they only have to read their speaches out of a book,
Nipper Brown is going to be a professer, Priscilla Hobbs is going to play a organ in the baptis
church. Prisil can play 3 tunes now on a little organ. i am going to be a cornet player like
Bruce Briggam. cornet players can go to all the dances and fairs and prosessions and are invited
in and treated when people are married and they serrinade them at night, and they don't have
to work either.

Mar. 25. almost as warm as summer, went to church and Sunday school. Beany has got a job blowing
the organ for Kate Wells. he only let the wind go out 2 times today. it was funny becaus when
the organ stopped Mister Wood who was singing let out an auful hoot before he knowed what he
was doing Beany will lose his job if he does it again.

Mar. 29, 186- The toads has come out. fine warm day. me and Potter Gorham have been ketching
toads this afternoon. they sit in the pudles and peep. folks think it is frogs but most of
it is toads. Potter got 23 and i got 18. tonite i put my toads in a box in the kitchen after
the folks went to bed. in the night they all got out of the box and began to hop round and
peep mother heard it and waked father and they lissened. when i waked up father was coming
threw my room with a big cane and a little tin lamp. he had put on his britches and was in
his shirt tale, and i said, what are you going to lick me for now i havent done nothing and
he said, keep still there is some one down stairs and mother said dont go down George and father
said, lissen i can hear him giving a whistle for his confedrit, i will jump in and give him
a whack on the cokonut. i had forgot all about the toads and you bet i was scart. well father
he crep down easy and blowed out his lite and opened the door quick and jest lammed round with
his club. then i heard him say what in hell have i stepped on, bring a lite here. then i though
of the toads and you bet i was scarter than before, mother went down with a lite and then i
heard him say, i will be cussed the whole place is ful of toads. then mother said did you ever.
and father said he never did, and it was some more of that dam boys works and he yelled upstairs
for me to come down and ketch them. so i went down and caught them and put them out all but
2 that father had stepped on and they had to be swep up. then all the folks came down in their
nitegounds and i went up stairs lively and got into bed and pulled the clothes round me tite,
but it dident do enny good for father came up and licked me. he dident lick me very hard becaus
i gess he was glad it wasent a berglar and if it hadent been for me it might have been berglars
insted of toads.

Mar. 30. brite and fair, went out with Potter Gorham. saw some toads 2 robins and a blewbird.
gosh it makes a feller feel good to see birds and toads and live things.

Mar. 31. April fool day tomorrow. i am laying for Beany. old Francis licked 5 fellers today
becaus they sung rong when we was singing speek kindly it is better far to rule by luv than feer.

April 1. auful cold and rainy. i was going to wright a love letter to Beany and sine Lizzie
Toles name to it but i told father about it for fun and he said that it was fourgery and that
i cood be prostecuted and sent to jale. so i dident. tonite me and Beany rung five door bells
for april fool.

April 2. been trying to get rid of some warts. Pewt says if you hook a piece of pork after
dark, rub it on the warts and say arum erum irum orum urum and nurum 3 times turn round twice
and throw the pork thru a window, then the warts will all be gone the next day. me and Beany
is going to try it tomorrow.

April 3. brite and fair. dident get a chance to hook the pork.

April 4. The band played in the band room to-nite. it was warm enuf to have the windows open
and we cood hear it. i sat out in the school yard til 10 oclock to hear it and father came
out and walked me home. Beany was mad becaus i cared more for the band than for getting rid
of the warts.

April 6. dident wright anything last nite, was too scart. i never was so scart in all my life
before. me and Beany came awful near getting in jale. we dident know where to hook the pork.
i went to our cellar but father was down there making vinigar all the evening, then we went
to Beanys cellar but Mister Watson was sitting on the cellar door. so Beany told his father
that a man was looking for him to see about a horse and Mister Watson started down to the club
stable. then Beany hooked the pork and rubbed it over his warts and then i rubbed it over my
warts and we said arum erum irum orum urum and nururn 3 times jest as Pewt said, turned round
twice and i plugged the pork right threw a gaslite jest then the gasman came along, he yelled
at us and jumped out of his wagon and went for us. we ran down threw the school yard as fast
as we cood hiper. there is a hollow in the corner of the school yard by Bill Morrills back
yard and there is a little hole in the bottom of the fence where the fellers crawl threw when
the football goes into his garden. we skinned threw that hole jest in time. the gasman tried
to crawl threw but he coodent, then he clim the high fence but while he was doing that we ran
across the carrige factory yard and down by the old brewery up Bow street and home. i went
to bed pretty lively and so did Beany. gosh but we was scart.

April 7. One of Beanys warts has gone.

April 8. brite and fair. my warts have not gone.

April 9. brite and fair. my warts have not gone.

April 10. Clowdy but no rane. my warts have not gone.

April 11. rany. i have got 2 more warts. i gess i hadent ought to have broke that gaslite.

April 12. i have got another.

April 13. bully day. me and Potter Gorharn and Chick Chickering went out after toads today.
i got 14 but i dident take them home you bet.

April 15. Brite and fair. we all went to church today to see the Lanes. they come from New
York and when they go to church everybody goes to see them. there was a boy with them named
Willie. i bet i cood lick him.

April 16. Nothing particular today. dont feel very well, kind of headaky and backaky.

April 20. have been sick for 4 days. went to school monday and had to come home. when i got
home i fell down on the steps and mother and aunt Sarah came out and got me in the house and
put water on my head and rubbed my hands, and then the Doctor came and said, well Joanna, children
are a good deel of truble and then he felt of my rist and said hum, and then he looked at my
tung and said hum again, and then he pride open my mouth and looked down my throte and said
hum, and then he pulled off my close and looked me over rite before mother and aunt Sarah and
said well he aint spekled eny. then he said what have you given him Joanna and mother said,
nothing, and the docter said, all right give him some more, and mother said i havent given
him enything docter, and then he walked around the room and picked up some things and looked
at them and then he gave me some of the wirst tasting stuff i ever took. then he said i gess
he will be better tomorrow, and then he looked at some more things and went home. i dident
sleep very well that nite but was auful hot and my head aked fearful. mother was in my room
every time i waked up, and Sarah too. next day i had the docter again he looked at some pictures
and things and told mother to give me some more. i always feel better when the docter comes
in. he dont scare a feller to deth.

Well the next day i felt a little better and tried to sit up and have my britches on, but i
had to lay down again my head aked so, and after awhile my head felt better and as i laid there
i could look out of the window and it seamed as if little chains that you could see through
like glass, were floating up and down they were about an inch long. well i wached them till
i almost went to sleep and jest as i was most asleep i heard Beany out in the street holler,
say Pewt, did you know that Plupy is going to die, and Pewt said course i did, why dont you
tell me some news, and Beany said i heard he swalowed a peach stone and Pewt said it was liver
complaint, and then i heard some one say, you boys shet up.

Gosh you bet i was scart. i hadent thought of dying. i began to howl and holler for mother.
she came running in and i told her i was going to die and i told her about breaking the gaslite
and a lot of other things and she told me the docter said i was getting better and i wood sit
up tomorrow. well i better then and wished i hadent told mother about the gaslite becaus i
knew she wood make me tell father. well mother set by my bed all the afternoon and read me
some out of Billy Bolegs, jest think of her doing that, so when supper time came i et a lettle
tost and had some current jelly. when father come home mother told him about the gaslite and
all he said was i wood have to pay for it out of my cornet money. i thought he wood keep me
in for a month. i gess mother must have talked to him.

That nite father slep on a lounge in my room. i went to sleep most as soon as he come in. after
awhile i dremp i was tied on a sawlog jest going nearer and nearer to the saw and the saw was
a going skratch-zoo, skratch-zoo, skratch-zoo. well i tride to pull away but i coodent move
and i tride to holler and i coodent make a yip, and jest before the saw sawed into me i woke
up. gosh you bet i was glad, but the funny part was that i could hear the saw going skratch-zoo,
skratch-zoo, skratch-zoo, and what do you think it was. it was father snoring. gosh you ought
to have heard him. well at first i laffed, but by and by i wanted to go to sleep and father
snoring so loud i coodent till mother came in and told him to go to bed and she laid on the
sofa all nite. the next day i set up and had my britches on and set up to the window all day.
i saw Beany and Pewt and i nocked on the window and waved my claw at them. i am going out tomorrow.

April 22. i went out today. it was real warm. i dident go to church becaus i had been sick.
i let my rooster out to fite J. Albert Clark's. they were fiting good when i looked up and
there was father looking over the fence. he made me stop the fite and shet my rooster up. i
wonder if he wood have stoped them if i hadent been there. i got 2 eggs today, the old brama
that i swaped for with Ed Tole and a bolten gray that John Adams give me.

April 23. i went to school today. i dident have to resite becaus i had been sick. if i dont
get wirse i can goto Mis Packerds concert tomorow. hope it wont rane.

April 24. brite and fair and it dident rane tonite, so i went to the concert. all the girls
was flowers. Keene was a crocuss and had to come out and sing first becaus the crocuss is the
first flower that comes out. she sung i am the first of all the flowers to greet the eyes of
spring.

Jenny Morison was a tuch me not and set in the top of a rock and sung tuch me not, tuch me
not let me alone. Nell Tole was a piny or a sunflower i have forgot whitch. Jenny Morison and
Keene and Nell Tole are the best singers for their size in town. father thinks Keene can sing
the best. he feels pretty big about Keene. i told him so one day and he said he had to becaus
i dident amount to enything. i think Jenny Morison can sing the best but dont tell him so for
he wood give me a bat.

April 25, 186- Cant go down town for a week becaus i sassed J. Albert Clark, that is J. Albert
Clark says I sassed him but i dident. Beany had been working for J. Albert raking up leaves
in his garden. J. Albert was a going to give him 10 cents for it and me and Beany was a going
to divide up on goozeberries and juju paist, but Beany dident dass to ask J. Albert for his
pay because he had raked all the leaves under J. Alberts front steps and he was afraid J. Albert
wood find out about it and not pay him. Beany wanted me to ask him but i dident dass to because
i let my rooster out to fite J. Alberts last Sunday and J. Albert dont believe in fiting roosters.
last night he was setting on his steps with some company and he had on his best lavender britches
and his best blew coat.

So Beany said, tell you what Plupy, you set on your steps and i will set on my steps and we
will holler across the street about the money that J. Albert owes me. So Beany he went across
the street to his steps and he hollered over, hi there Plupy have you got any chink, and i
hollered back, no Beany i havent got a cent, and Beany he hollered i shood have 10 cents if
J. Albert Clark wood pay me what he owes me, and i hollered why in time dont he pay you, and
Beany hollered i gess he hasent got any chink, and i hollered he has probably spent all his
chink in buying them lavender britches, and Beany he hollered, well if J. Albert Clark needs
the money more than I do he can have it. well while we was hollering mister Head and the Head
girls who was setting on their steps got up and went into the house laffing, and the company
at J. Alberts all laffed, and J. Albert came down and beckoned to Beany and Beany he went running
over to get his 10 cents and J. Albert he said, Elbridge, that is Beanys name, Elbridge you
cood have your money enny time if you had asked me for it decently, but now i shall not pay
you for a week and i shall not imploy you enny more. Tell you what, Beany came over to my steps
feeling pretty cheap and we was talking about it when mother called me in and sent me up stairs,
and said she wood tell father as soon as he came home. So i went up stairs and looked out of
the window jest in time to see Beanys father lugging Beany in by the neck. Well that nite after
father got home he jawed me and said i coodent go down town for a week and made me go to J.
Alberts right before the company and ask his forgiveness, and Beany had to to. J. Albert was
a pretty good fellow and said it was all right, and dident want our fathers not to let us go
down town, but father said i must learn to be respectable to my elders. Gosh we dident know
J. Albert was a elder. We knowed elder Stevens and elder Stewart and deacon Gooch and we always
was respectable to them, and if we had knowed that J. Albert Clark was a elder we woodent have
sassed him for nothing.

April 26. Yesterday and day before it was brite and fair, and yesterday was as warm as summer.
today, it was cold and it snowed a little. jest enuf to make the ground look as if it was covered
with salt. the birds looked all humped up. i bet the frogs hind legs is about froze. it is
raining now. if i was a frog i woodent come out of the mud until summer. perhaps they cant
stay under more than six months.

April 27. Warm again. 2 eggs today. i have got another hen. Willyam Perry Molton gave it to
me. it is a leghorn and his other hens licked it and made its comb bludy and so he gave it
to me. it was on the nest today but did not lay. i went to church. Mr. Cram preeched. he talked
all about birds and flowers and i liked it.

April 28. brite and fair. all 3 hens were on the nest but dident lay.

April 29. no eggs today. mother said the hens cackled all the morning. brite and fair.

April 30. i dont see what the mater is with my hens. i havent got 1 egg this week. father said
there was a rat in the koop. i got a steel trap of Sam Diar and tonite i set it in the koop.
i put a peace of cheeze on it. tomorrow morning i ges mister rat wont steal any more eggs.

May 1. what do you think. this morning i got up to get my rat and i found that my best hen,
the bolton gray that John Adams gave me had tried to pick the cheeze out of the trap and the
trap had caught her by the neck and killed her. i felt most bad enuf to cry. i thought i cood
get up before the hen did. i went to the may brekfast today. it was may-fair day and they had
a brekfast. me and Pewt, Beany, Whacker and Pozzy Chadwick, Micky Gould, Pop Clark, Prisilla
Hobbs, Chick Chick-ering, Potter Gorham, Pile Wood, Curly Conner and all the fellers were there.
we had a good time and et till just before school time and we had to hiper so as not to be late.

May 2. no eggs today. both hens went on the nest. i am going to lay for that rat with my bowgun.

May 3. what do you think. this noon i set in the hen koop 1 hour. the brama went on the nest
and set a while and came off and cakled, then i looked and she had lade an egg. i left the
egg there and hid behind a barrel and got my bowgun ready for the rat. well the leghorn hen
went on the nest and i suposed she was a going to lay, but she broke rite into that egg and
began to gobble it up. i was so mad that i let ding at her with the bowgun and just then she
stuck up her head and the arrow took her rite in the back of the head. well i wish you cood
have seen her. she hollered one little pip and then went rite out of the nest backwards and
flapped round awful. i picked her up and she was dead. i dident mean to kill her, i only wanted
to make her jump and learn her not to eat eggs. O dear, i dont know what father will say when
he finds it out.

May 5, 186- Saw a bully fite today. Cris Staples and Charlie Clark. Charlie is visiting his
uncle J. Albert Clark, the feller that we sassed. that is he said we did but we dident. Charlie
is a city feller, he lives in Chelsy and think he knows a pile about things and gets mad if
we call him names. now every feller who amounts to anything has a nickname, and some of them
have 2 or 3. my nicknames are Plupy and Skinny and Polelegs, and Beany is called Bullethead
and sometimes Fatty. i told Charlie that if i called him Charlie the fellers would call him
sissy or Mary and he better agree to let me call him bulldog or tomcat or diddly or gobbler
or some nickname whitch wood mean something. but he said he would lam the head off of enny
feller which called him names. well you jest see what trouble he got into for not having a
nickname. he would have knowed better than that if he hadent lived in Chelsy.

Well today me and Charlie was setting on his steps. Beany was mad because i was going with
Charlie and he had gone riding with his father and he felt pretty big because his father let
him drive. well while we were setting there along came Cris Staples who carries papers for
Lane and Rollins store, and Cris hollered over, hullo Polelegs. Charlie hadent heard enyone
call me Polelegs. and i said, i woodent stand that if i was you Charlie, now less see you lam
the head off of him, and Charlie he started across the road and walked up to Cris and said
who in time are you calling Polelegs and Cris wasent going to back down and said, you, and
Charlie said jest drop them papers and i will nock your face rite off, and Cris dropped his
papers and they went at it. it was the best fite i have seen this year. they fit from Mr. Head's
down to Gim Ellisons corner, and Cris licked time out of Charlie, and Charlie began to yell
and give up and then Cris let go of his hair and told him he was to smart, and that it was
me he was calling Polelegs and not him, and he better not be so smart another time, and Cris
he picked up his papers and went off with a great slit in his jacket and his necktie way round
on one side, and Charlie came home howling and Aunt Clark, Charlie's grandmother came out and
said, that is what you get Charlie for quareling. see how much better Harry feels, and i said,
yes mam. Charlie is never going to speak to me again.

May 7. Beany was pretty mad when I told him about the fite because he dident see it. i gess
he will find it don't pay to get mad with me. i saw Charlie today but he dident speak. he has
got a black eye. Cris has got a funny looking nose on one side.

May 8. Chitter Robinson went in swiming today. i bet it was cold.

May 9. Went down to the high school yard tonite to hear the band play. they have got a new
leader a Mister Ashman of Boston. he can play the cornet with 1 hand. i went down today to
pay the gasman for the gaslite i broke. it cost 1 dollar and i have only got 87 cents for my
cornet. sometimes i dont believe i shall ever get that cornet. Scott Brigam can blow a bugle.
a bugle is like a cornet only a cornet has 3 keys and a bugle is all covered with flappers
and curly things where you put your fingers. Rashe Belnap can play a cornet splendid but he
dont play very often. Frank Hirvey plays one that goes over his shoulder way behind his back.
gosh i wish i cood get a cornet.

May 10. father has found out about my killing that hen. he dident get mad but said i ought
to have cut her head off and she wood be good to eat, but i supose it is to late now for it
is almost a week ago and i burried her the next day.

May 11. me and Potter Gorham went mayflowering today. i got a bunch and sold them to a student
named Chizzum for 35 cents. i put it with my cornet money. i have now got $1.22. i can get
a cornet for 25 dollars a second hand one. i am afraid i shall never get that cornet.

