General Sedgwick, finding that the heights could only be carried by direct assault, directed
storming columns to be formed in the Second and Third divisions and the Light division, which
order was at once carried into execution.

In the Second division, General Howe directed General Neill to lead the advance. The plan of
attack of the division was in two lines of battle of three regiments each.

The first line consisted of the Thirty-third New York, Colonel Taylor, the Seventh Maine, Colonel
Connor, and the Twenty-first New Jersey, Colonel Van Houten, preceded by the Seventy-seventh
New York, Colonel French, as skirmishers. The line was commanded by General Neill[1]. The second
line consisted of the Sixth Vermont, Colonel Barney, the Twenty-sixth New Jersey, Colonel Morrison,
and the Second Vermont, Colonel Walbridge, and was under command of Colonel L. A. Grant. Both
lines were arranged from right to left, in the order above mentioned.

    [1] "I was ordered to form three regiments as the advance of a
    column of assault against the heights of Marye's Hill, back of
    Fredericksburgh. I led the Thirty-third New York, Twenty-first
    New Jersey and Seventh Maine Volunteers, preceded by the
    Seventy-seventh New York, who were acting as skirmishers, under
    a heavy fire of shot and shell."--Neill's Report.

The Forty-ninth and Twentieth New York formed the right reserve, and the Third, Fourth and
Fifth Vermont, under Colonel Seavor, the left reserve.

The next column was composed of the Seventh Massachusetts, Colonel Jones, and the Thirty-sixth
New York, Colonel Walsh; both under the command of Colonel Jones--the Fifth Wisconsin, Colonel
Allen, acting as skirmishers. Supporting the column, in line of battle, were the Sixth Maine,
Colonel Harris, Thirty-first New York, Colonel Jones, and the Twenty-third Pennsylvania, Colonel
Ely.

The right column of all consisted of the Forty-third New York, Colonel Baker, and the Sixty-first
Pennsylvania, Colonel Spear--the two regiments under command of the latter officer, who fell,
mortally wounded, while leading the charge. The Sixty-seventh New York, Colonel Cross, and
the Eighty-second Pennsylvania, Major Bassett, under command of Colonel Shaler, supported this
right column.

At half-past ten, the arrangements for storming the heights were completed, and Newton's batteries
opened upon the enemy. At the sound of Newton's first gun, General Howe ordered his batteries
to direct their fire upon the heights, and then ordered the storming column forward.

The division advanced toward the bold bluffs, which, bare of trees as well as the plain below,
allowed the enemy an excellent view of all our movements. A railroad traversed the plain near
the bluffs, and in a deep cut through which the road passed, were rebels. They rose up as we
advanced, and poured showers of leaden hail into our line; but one of our batteries, getting
an enfilading fire on the road, sent the gray-coated occupants hurriedly to the rear. For a
moment we halted, the batteries on either side playing into each other with spirit.

It was a moment of contending emotions of pride, hope and sadness, as our gallant boys stood
face to face with those heights, ready to charge upon them. At double-quick, and in splendid
style, they crossed the plain. Our line was perfect. The men could not have made a more orderly
appearance had they been on drill. Proud of their commands, Generals Howe and Neill, and Colonel
Grant, cheered the men onward, while Lieutenant-Colonel French, in charge of the skirmish line,
inspired, by his own intrepid behavior, the utmost confidence and bravery in his men. They
took the matter as coolly as though on parade.

Just in rear of the division, three batteries of Parrott guns were playing into the works of
the enemy, while from the heights above, all the opposing batteries poured a terrible and destructive
fire upon the advancing lines. Having gained the rifle pits at the base of the hills, they
pushed forward to capture the heights.

A more grand spectacle cannot be imagined. There were the hills, enough to fatigue any man
to climb them without a load and with no one to oppose. At the foot of the hills were thousands
of the enemy, pouring into them volleys of musketry, and on the heights were their lines of
earthworks, with their artillery, from which poured grape and cannister in a frightful storm.
But the boys pushed nobly, steadily on, the rebels steadily retreating, the division coming
up in splendid style. Generals Howe and Neill and Colonel Grant directing the movements and
cheering on the men, as they pressed undauntedly against the murderous storm of iron and lead
that met them from above. Our men were falling in every direction, but the lines were immediately
closed, and on they passed. With shouts and cheers that drowned the roar of artillery, the
noble division, with bayonets fixed, mounted the heights, the rebels retreating in confusion.
Of that noble column the skirmishers of the Seventy-seventh first reached the heights of Marye's
Hill, the Thirty-third New York, in line of battle, followed, and then the Sixth Vermont,[2]
the other regiments of the two brigades being but a moment behind. But the work was not all
done yet. On our left was an earthwork of strong profile, from which now the rebels turned
their guns upon us. Against this the column turned, and soon gained possession of it also.
A third stronghold then fell into our hands, and we were in undisputed possession of the heights.
While the troops under Neill and Grant had thus nobly stormed the works in front, Colonel Seaver,
with his three regiments, had scaled the heights further to the left.

    [2] General L. A. Grant, in his report, does unintentional
    injustice to a brave regiment. He says: "The Sixth Vermont
    followed the Thirty-third New York, and was the second to gain
    the heights of Fredericksburgh." The Thirty-third was not the
    first to gain the heights on that part of the line. The
    testimony of General Neill, as well as of the members of the
    regiment, and the many trophies it captured, fully establish the
    claim of the Seventy-seventh to the honor.

With one or two exceptions, every regiment in the division had behaved with great gallantry.

The Seventy-seventh New York captured a stand of colors belonging to the Eighteenth Mississippi
regiment, two heavy guns, a large number of prisoners, among whom was Colonel Luce of the Eighteenth
Mississippi, and great numbers of small arms.

As the regiment reached the heights, and took possession of the guns, General Howe rode up,
and, taking off his hat, exclaimed: "Noble Seventy-seventh! you have covered yourselves with
glory!" The general's words were greeted with tumultuous cheers.

In the second work, the Thirty-third New York captured a piece of heavy ordnance and a number
of prisoners. The regiment had exhibited great spirit and bravery. Six color-bearers had been
shot down successively.

It was at the signal of the first gun in Newton's front that General Howe had ordered the charge
of the Second division. The Third division and the Light division had not been idle while the
events we have described were going on. It will be remembered that the column on the right
consisted of the Forty-third New York and the Sixty-first Pennsylvania, supported by a line
of battle; and that the other column consisted of the Seventh Massachusetts and Thirty-sixth
New York, also supported by other regiments.

The ascent in front of the Third and Light divisions, though steep, was less precipitous than
in front of Howe's column, and a good road led to the heights. But a stone wall skirted the
base of the hills, behind which the rebels swarmed in great numbers.

Under the fire of the rebel batteries, Newton's and Burnham's regiments lay, some in the outskirts
of the town, some in the cemetery, until General Sedgwick gave the order for the advance. Then,
almost at the same time, both commands moved up the glacis towards the heights. Colonel Jones,
with his two regiments, the Seventh Massachusetts and Thirty-sixth New York, pushed forward
up the telegraph road, against the stone wall, bearing to the right of the road; their knapsacks
and haversacks were left behind that they might be unencumbered with needless burdens. As they
approached within three hundred yards of the wall, a murderous volley checked the advance,
and threw the head of the column into disorder. In two minutes the men were rallied, and again
they approached the wall, this time nearer than before; but again they were broken. A third
time they were rallied; this time they pushed straight forward to the works.

The column under Colonel Spear started briskly forward, divested, like the others, of knapsacks
and haversacks. Sallying from the town at double quick, in column of four ranks, they crossed
the bridge just outside the city, when the gallant Colonel Spear received his mortal wound,
and fell at the head of his men. The Sixty-first, which led the column, shocked at the death
of their beloved leader, broke, and in confusion turned toward the town. This unfortunate confusion
spread to the men of the Forty-third, who, checked by the disordered mass in front, and submitted
to a galling fire, also commenced falling back. Finding any attempt to get the men through
the disordered mass in front, the gallant Wilson drew his colors to the right and rallied his
regiment around them. Then, bounding forward, the regiment reached the heights scarcely behind
any of the regiments on the left, capturing a gun and many prisoners.

The line of battle under Colonel Burnham advanced on the left of the road; the Fifth Wisconsin
on the skirmish line, the Sixth Maine, the Thirty-first New York, and the Twenty-third Pennsylvania
in line. Four more gallant regiments could not be found in the service. Leaving everything
but guns and ammunition, they started forward, encountering a shower of bullets, grape and
canister, as soon as they rose above the slight knoll which had concealed them. We of the Second
division looked with admiration upon the advancing line; our flag--it was the flag of the Sixth
Maine--in advance of the others, its brave color-guard bounding forward, then halting a moment
while the men came up, then dashing forward again, and finally gaining the heights before us
all! It was a noble spectacle, and filled our hearts with pride for our brave comrades of the
Light division. The Light division secured as trophies about seven hundred prisoners and five
cannon.

Thus the heights were won. It was a glorious day for the Sixth corps. Never was a charge more
gallantly made. But it was a sad day, for many scores of our brave comrades lay stretched in
death, along the glacis, and on the steep ascent, in the ravines and along the road.

The Seventh Massachusetts, the Sixth Maine, the Fifth Wisconsin, the Second Vermont, and the
Seventy-seventh, Thirty-third and Forty-third New York, were among the greatest losers. The
Sixth Maine reached the rebel works with the loss of six captains and the major, and a proportional
number of enlisted men. Two color-bearers and Lieutenant-Colonel Newman were shot in the Thirty-first,
and Colonel Jones, of the Seventh Massachusetts, was seriously wounded, while one hundred and
twelve of his brave men were either killed or wounded.

