"That is the heavenly justice of it--they warn't rewarded according to their deserts, on earth,
but here they get their rightful rank. That tailor Billings, from Tennessee, wrote poetry that
Homer and Shakespeare couldn't begin to come up to; but nobody would print it, nobody read
it but his neighbors, an ignorant lot, and they laughed at it.  Whenever the village had a
drunken frolic and a dance, they would drag him in and crown him with cabbage leaves, and pretend
to bow down to him; and one night when he was sick and nearly starved to death, they had him
out and crowned him, and then they rode him on a rail about the village, and everybody followed
along, beating tin pans and yelling.  Well, he died before morning. He wasn't ever expecting
to go to heaven, much less that there was going to be any fuss made over him, so I reckon he
was a good deal surprised when the reception broke on him."

"Was you there, Sandy?"

"Bless you, no!"

"Why?  Didn't you know it was going to come off?"

"Well, I judge I did.  It was the talk of these realms--not for a day, like this barkeeper
business, but for twenty years before the man died."

"Why the mischief didn't you go, then?"

"Now how you talk!  The like of me go meddling around at the reception of a prophet?  A mudsill
like me trying to push in and help receive an awful grandee like Edward J. Billings?  Why,
I should have been laughed at for a billion miles around.  I shouldn't ever heard the last of it."

"Well, who did go, then?"

"Mighty few people that you and I will ever get a chance to see, Captain.  Not a solitary commoner
ever has the luck to see a reception of a prophet, I can tell you.  All the nobility, and all
the patriarchs and prophets--every last one of them--and all the archangels, and all the princes
and governors and viceroys, were there,--and NO small fry--not a single one.  And mind you,
I'm not talking about only the grandees from OUR world, but the princes and patriarchs and
so on from ALL the worlds that shine in our sky, and from billions more that belong in systems
upon systems away outside of the one our sun is in.  There were some prophets and patriarchs
there that ours ain't a circumstance to, for rank and illustriousness and all that.  Some were
from Jupiter and other worlds in our own system, but the most celebrated were three poets,
Saa, Bo and Soof, from great planets in three different and very remote systems.  These three
names are common and familiar in every nook and corner of heaven, clear from one end of it
to the other-- fully as well known as the eighty Supreme Archangels, in fact-- where as our
Moses, and Adam, and the rest, have not been heard of outside of our world's little corner
of heaven, except by a few very learned men scattered here and there--and they always spell
their names wrong, and get the performances of one mixed up with the doings of another, and
they almost always locate them simply IN OUR SOLAR SYSTEM, and think that is enough without
going into little details such as naming the particular world they are from. It is like a learned
Hindoo showing off how much he knows by saying Longfellow lives in the United States--as if
he lived all over the United States, and as if the country was so small you couldn't throw
a brick there without hitting him.  Between you and me, it does gravel me, the cool way people
from those monster worlds outside our system snub our little world, and even our system.  Of
course we think a good deal of Jupiter, because our world is only a potato to it, for size;
but then there are worlds in other systems that Jupiter isn't even a mustard-seed to--like
the planet Goobra, for instance, which you couldn't squeeze inside the orbit of Halley's comet
without straining the rivets.  Tourists from Goobra (I mean parties that lived and died there--natives)
come here, now and then, and inquire about our world, and when they find out it is so little
that a streak of lightning can flash clear around it in the eighth of a second, they have to
lean up against something to laugh.  Then they screw a glass into their eye and go to examining
us, as if we were a curious kind of foreign bug, or something of that sort.  One of them asked
me how long our day was; and when I told him it was twelve hours long, as a general thing,
he asked me if people where I was from considered it worth while to get up and wash for such
a day as that.  That is the way with those Goobra people--they can't seem to let a chance go
by to throw it in your face that their day is three hundred and twenty-two of our years long.
This young snob was just of age--he was six or seven thousand of his days old--say two million
of our years--and he had all the puppy airs that belong to that time of life--that turning-
point when a person has got over being a boy and yet ain't quite a man exactly.  If it had
been anywhere else but in heaven, I would have given him a piece of my mind.  Well, anyway,
Billings had the grandest reception that has been seen in thousands of centuries, and I think
it will have a good effect.  His name will be carried pretty far, and it will make our system
talked about, and maybe our world, too, and raise us in the respect of the general public of
heaven.  Why, look here--Shakespeare walked backwards before that tailor from Tennessee, and
scattered flowers for him to walk on, and Homer stood behind his chair and waited on him at
the banquet. Of course that didn't go for much THERE, amongst all those big foreigners from
other systems, as they hadn't heard of Shakespeare or Homer either, but it would amount to
considerable down there on our little earth if they could know about it.  I wish there was
something in that miserable spiritualism, so we could send them word.  That Tennessee village
would set up a monument to Billings, then, and his autograph would outsell Satan's.  Well,
they had grand times at that reception--a small-fry noble from Hoboken told me all about it--Sir
Richard Duffer, Baronet."

"What, Sandy, a nobleman from Hoboken?  How is that?"

"Easy enough.  Duffer kept a sausage-shop and never saved a cent in his life because he used
to give all his spare meat to the poor, in a quiet way.  Not tramps,--no, the other sort--the
sort that will starve before they will beg--honest square people out of work. Dick used to
watch hungry-looking men and women and children, and track them home, and find out all about
them from the neighbors, and then feed them and find them work.  As nobody ever saw him give
anything to anybody, he had the reputation of being mean; he died with it, too, and everybody
said it was a good riddance; but the minute he landed here, they made him a baronet, and the
very first words Dick the sausage-maker of Hoboken heard when he stepped upon the heavenly
shore were, 'Welcome, Sir Richard Duffer!'  It surprised him some, because he thought he had
reasons to believe he was pointed for a warmer climate than this one."

All of a sudden the whole region fairly rocked under the crash of eleven hundred and one thunder
blasts, all let off at once, and Sandy says,--

"There, that's for the barkeep."

I jumped up and says,--

"Then let's be moving along, Sandy; we don't want to miss any of this thing, you know."

"Keep your seat," he says; "he is only just telegraphed, that is all."

"How?"

"That blast only means that he has been sighted from the signal- station.  He is off Sandy
Hook.  The committees will go down to meet him, now, and escort him in.  There will be ceremonies
and delays; they won't he coming up the Bay for a considerable time, yet.  It is several billion
miles away, anyway."

"I could have been a barkeeper and a hard lot just as well as not," says I, remembering the
lonesome way I arrived, and how there wasn't any committee nor anything.

"I notice some regret in your voice," says Sandy, "and it is natural enough; but let bygones
be bygones; you went according to your lights, and it is too late now to mend the thing."

"No, let it slide, Sandy, I don't mind.  But you've got a Sandy Hook HERE, too, have you?"

"We've got everything here, just as it is below.  All the States and Territories of the Union,
and all the kingdoms of the earth and the islands of the sea are laid out here just as they
are on the globe--all the same shape they are down there, and all graded to the relative size,
only each State and realm and island is a good many billion times bigger here than it is below.
There goes another blast."

"What is that one for?"

"That is only another fort answering the first one.  They each fire eleven hundred and one
thunder blasts at a single dash--it is the usual salute for an eleventh-hour guest; a hundred
for each hour and an extra one for the guest's sex; if it was a woman we would know it by their
leaving off the extra gun."

"How do we know there's eleven hundred and one, Sandy, when they all go off at once?--and yet
we certainly do know."

"Our intellects are a good deal sharpened up, here, in some ways, and that is one of them.
Numbers and sizes and distances are so great, here, that we have to be made so we can FEEL
them--our old ways of counting and measuring and ciphering wouldn't ever give us an idea of
them, but would only confuse us and oppress us and make our heads ache."

After some more talk about this, I says:  "Sandy, I notice that I hardly ever see a white angel;
where I run across one white angel, I strike as many as a hundred million copper-colored ones--people
that can't speak English.  How is that?"

