"I am well acquainted with these men, but there was something about the rough looking specimen
before me, a certain something in his manner, in his speech, in the twinkle of his eyes, which
set him apart from the rest of his class. A grizzled beard of iron grey concealed the lower
half of his face, and the right temple and cheek were disfigured by a scar which gave the countenance
a decidedly sinister appearance. In spite of that I felt that the man before me had at one
time been accustomed to a very different life from the one he was leading now.

"'Why don't you try your hand on me, Father?' he repeated, and the smile accompanying the words
made the ugly face almost pleasing.

"There was not time for a lengthy conversation, the engine requiring constant attention, but
the tramp volunteered the information that he answered to the name of Jim, and promised to
report at the rectory in the evening and give me a chance to try my hand on him.

"In the evening, then, I sat and waited, half fearing that he had changed his mind and would
not come. But just as the first pale stars began to twinkle in the sky Jim pushed open the
gate and I went to meet him with both hands extended in warmest welcome. He gave me his left
hand, and for the first time I noticed that the right was gone--amputated at the wrist. Jim
saw my glance of shocked pity and smiled as he said calmly:

"'It was the drink did it, Father--the hand and this scar on my face. I'd been hitting it up
pretty lively and didn't realize where I was walking. The track wasn't wide enough for me and
the train. One of us had to get off, and as the engine was the stronger of the two--well, you
see the result before you.'

"'How long have you been tramping, Jim?' I asked.

"'More years than I care to think of now, Father. The drink again. In fact, it's been the drink
at every turn; it's ruined my life, made a complete fool of me. But let's get down to business;
only, you'll have to help me out, it's so long since I went to confession I've almost forgotten
how.'

"'Come into the house or the confessional in the church,' I suggested.

"'The house or the confessional in the church? No, thank you, Father. 

When he entered that royal city, he got the best inn for himself and his servant, and ordered the
landlord to quickly give the servants any food or drink they wanted.
 Without more ado we 'got down
to business,' and it was nearly two hours later when we parted at the gate. In answer to a
question of mine, Jim replied whimsically:

"'Where do I live while I'm working on this job? Well, you see, Father, I am rather particular
with regard to my lodgings, and as there is nothing around here that quite suits me, I just
crawl under the engine and sleep there.'

"'But when it rains, Jim?'

"'Well, it just rains, that's all.'

"The next morning Jim attended my Mass and received Holy Communion, and every morning after
that when I entered the church to offer up the Holy Sacrifice the first person I would see
would be my one-armed tramp kneeling in a far corner, his rosary slipping through his fingers.
The rosary had belonged to his mother, and during all his years of tramping he had guarded
it as his most precious treasure. He had worn it in a little chamois bag suspended from a string
around his neck, but had not used it in many, many years. He came regularly one evening in
each week to make his confession and to have a little chat with me. As the summer progressed
I wondered more and more at this strange new acquaintance of mine; this rough looking tramp
with the manners of a gentleman and the speech, except for a few lapses in the vernacular of
the road, of a man of considerable education. The oddest thing of all was the feeling I had
that somewhere, at some time, Jim and I had met before. Little tricks of voice and expression
would seem strangely familiar.

"The summer gradually faded into autumn, and one evening in late September when I stood at
the gate to say good-night to my tramp, he remarked sadly:

"'This is good-by as well as good-night, Father. I have given up my work here and am off early
in the morning.'

"'Not the road again!' I cried, and the next second would have given anything to recall the
thoughtless words. A pained look crossed Jim's face, but he answered quietly:

"'No, Father, not the road. Never again shall I return to that life. I have saved my wages
this summer and am going back into the world to begin life all over again. This time, with
God's help, I shall not make such a muddle of it as I did before.'

"The next day he was gone, and many a night as I sat over my study-fire reading or trying to
work up my sermon for Sunday, my thoughts would stray from the subject in hand and wander out
into the world in search of my friend the tramp. I would listen to the wintry blasts whistling
down my chimney and wonder where Jim was, and wonder still more at his complete silence. Surely
he might let me know if all were well with him. Had he persevered? Or had he, perhaps, lapsed
into his former ways, and was he, even now, tramping the highways and byways?

"Winter passed and spring came; still no news of Jim. Another summer, another fall, another
winter. Silence, absolute silence on the part of my tramp. Then, one evening in May, exactly
two years from the day when I first met him, Jim stood before me once again. I recognized him
by the missing right hand and the scar on the temple. Aside from those two points and the old
merry twinkle in his eye he bore absolutely no resemblance to my tramp of two years ago. The
face was smooth shaven, the bloat, caused by years of drinking, had all disappeared, and he
looked at least ten years younger than my former friend. His ragged tramp's garb had been replaced
by neat garments such as a fairly prosperous business man might wear. His whole appearance
seemed to indicate that Jim had done well in the world to which he had returned. Sitting in
the garden, he told me all about it.

"Yes, he had done well. It had been hard at first, oh! very hard. There had been a time when,
his savings all gone and no employment in sight, he had faced actual starvation. But the darkest
hour comes before dawn, and that had been Jim's darkest hour. From then on things began to
mend. He had obtained a good situation and was happy in it. He had not written because for
long, for so very long, he had no news but bad news to send. There was nothing but ill-luck
and misfortune to report, and he waited from day to day hoping things would brighten. Then,
when the unexpected stroke of good luck came, he decided to wait yet a little longer until
he could bring me the good news in person.

"All the time he was talking I watched his face carefully. That puzzling, baffling resemblance
to some one whom I had known was stronger than ever since the beard which concealed so much
of his face had been removed. I became more and more convinced that we had met before, but
when and where? I racked my memory, but the name, the personality I wanted, eluded my grasp.
Something of my thoughts must have shown in my face, for when Jim finished his narrative he
threw back his head, laughing merrily at my very evident perplexity. Sweet of the ladies,
not? "

Martha stood zusammengekniffenem mouth before the delicate white and
purple flower abundance.

Rolfers came back, bent over the flowers
and fruits and inhaled its fragrance. "I like the you what, my boy?ragrance. "I like the you what, my boy?