"Oh, you will like Lawless well enough when he gets tired of bullying you," replied Coleman;
"though you need not stand so much of that as I was obliged to bear; you are a good head taller
than I am--let's look at your arm; it would be all the better for a little more muscle, but
that will soon improve. I'll put on the gloves with you for an hour or so every day."

"Put on the gloves!" repeated I; "how do you mean?--what has that to do with Lawless?"

"Oh, you muff! don't you understand?--of course, I mean the boxing-gloves; and when you know
how to use your fists, if Lawless comes it too strong, slip into him."

"He must bully a good deal before I am driven to that," replied I; "I never struck a blow in
anger in my life."

"You will see before long," rejoined Coleman; "but at all events there is no harm in learning
to use your fists; a man should always be able to defend himself if he is attacked."

"Yes, that's very true," observed I; "but you have not told me anything of Cumberland. Shall
I ever like him, do you think?"

"Not if you are the sort of fellow I take you to be," replied he; "there's something about
Cumberland not altogether right, I fancy; I'm not very strait-laced myself, particularly if
there's any fun in a thing, not so much so as I should be, I suspect; but Cumberland is too
bad even ~26~~for me; besides, there's no fun in what he does, and then he's such a humbug--not
straightforward and honest, you know. Lawless would not be half such a bully either, if Cumberland
did not set him on. But don't you say a word about this to any one; Cumberland would be ready
to murder me, or to get somebody else to do it for him--that's more in his way."

"Do not fear my repeating anything told me in confidence," replied I; "but what do you mean
when you say there's something wrong about Cumberland?"

"Do you know what Lawless meant by the 'board of green cloth' this morning?"

"No--it puzzled me."

"I will tell you then," replied Coleman, sinking his voice almost to a whisper--"the billiard
table!"

After telling me this, Coleman, evidently fearing to commit himself further with one of whom
he knew so little, turned the conversation, and, finding it still wanted more than an hour
to dinner, proposed that we should take a stroll along the shore together. In the course of
our walk I acquired the additional information that another pupil was expected in a few days--the
only son of Sir John Oaklands, a baronet of large fortune in Hertfordshire; and that an acquaintance
of Coleman's, who knew him, said he was a capital fellow, but very odd--though in what the
oddity consisted did not appear. Moreover, Coleman confirmed me in my preconceived idea, that
Mullins's genius lay at present chiefly in the eating, drinking, and sleeping line--adding
that, in his opinion, he bore a striking resemblance to those somewhat dissimilar articles,
a muff and a spoon. In converse such as this, the time slipped away, till we suddenly discovered
that we had only a quarter of an hour left in which to walk back to Langdale Terrace, and prepare
for dinner; whereupon a race began, in which my longer legs gave me so decided an advantage
over Coleman that he declared he would deliver me up to the tender mercies of the "Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals," for what he was pleased to call "an aggravated case
of over-driving a private pupil".

We had not more than five minutes left when we arrived at Dr. Mildman's door, Coleman affording
a practical illustration of the truth of the aphorism, that "it is the pace that kills"; so
that Thomas's injunction, "Look sharp, gentlemen," was scarcely necessary to induce us to rush
upstairs two steps at a time. In the same hurry I entered my bedroom, without observing that
the door was standing ajar rather suspiciously, for which piece of inattention I ~27~~was rewarded
by a deluge of water, which wetted me from head to foot, and a violent blow on the shoulder,
which stretched me on the ground in the midst of a puddle. That I may not keep the reader in
suspense I will at once inform him that I was indebted for this agreeable surprise to the kindness
and skill of Lawless, who, having returned from his pigeon-match half-an-hour sooner than was
necessary, had devoted it to the construction of what he called a "booby trap," which ingenious
piece of mechanism was arranged in the following manner: The victim's room-door was placed
ajar, and upon the top thereof a Greek Lexicon, or any other equally ponderous volume, was
carefully balanced, and upon this was set in its turn a jug of water. If all these were properly
adjusted, the catastrophe above described was certain to ensue when the door was opened.

"Fairly caught, by Jove," cried Lawless, who had been on the watch.

"By Jupiter Pluvius, you should have said," joined in Coleman, helping me up again; for so
sudden and unexpected had been the shock that I had remained for a moment just as I had fallen,
with a kind of vague expectation that the roof of the house would come down upon me.

"I suppose I have to thank you for that," said I, turning to Lawless.

"Pray, don't mention it, Pinafore," was the answer; "what little trouble I had in making the
arrangement, I can assure you, was quite repaid by its success."

"I'll certainly put on the gloves to-morrow," whispered I to Coleman--to which he replied by
a sympathetic wink, adding:--

"And now I think you had better get ready, more particularly as you will have to find out 'how
to dress jugged hair,' as the cookery-books say".

By dint of almost superhuman exertions I did just contrive to get down in time for dinner,
though my unfortunate "jugged hair," which was anything but dry, must have presented rather
a singular appearance. In the course of dinner Dr. Mildman told us that we should have the
whole of the next day to ourselves, as he was obliged to go to London on business, and should
not return till the middle of the day following--an announcement which seemed to afford great
satisfaction to his hearers, despite an attempt made by Cumberland to keep up appearances,
by putting on a look of mournful resignation, which, being imitated by Coleman, who, as might
be expected, rather overdid the thing, failed most signally.

          "Come, tailor, let us see't;

          Oh! mercy.... What masking stuff is here?

          What's this? a sleeve?"

          "Disguise, I see; thou art a wickedness
          Wherein the pregnant enemy does much."

          "A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!"
          --Shakspeare.

ON returning to the pupils' room Lawless commenced (to my great delight, as I thereby enjoyed
a complete immunity from his somewhat troublesome attentions) a full, true, and particular
account of the pigeon-match, in which his friend Clayton had, with unrivalled skill, slain
a sufficient number of victims to furnish forth pies for the supply of the whole mess during
the ensuing fortnight. At length, however, all was said that could be said, even upon this
interesting subject, and the narrator, casting his eyes around in search of wherewithal to
amuse himself, chanced to espy my new writing-desk, a parting gift from my little sister Fanny,
who, with the self-denial of true affection, had saved up her pocket-money during many previous
months in order to provide funds for this munificent present.

"Pinafore, is that desk yours?" demanded Lawless.

Not much admiring the sobriquet by which he chose to address me, I did not feel myself called
upon to reply.

"Are you deaf, stupid? don't you hear me speaking to you?--where did you get that writing-desk?"

Still I did not answer.

"Sulky, eh? I shall have to lick him before long, I see. Here you, what's your name? Fairlegh,
did your grand-mother give you that writing-desk?"

"No," replied I, "my sister Fanny gave it to me the day before I left home."

"Oh, you have got a sister Fanny, have you? how old is she, and what is she like?"

"She is just thirteen, and she has got the dearest little face in the world," answered I, earnestly,
as the recollection of her bright blue eyes and sunny smile came across me.

~29~~"How interesting!" sighed Coleman; "it quite makes my heart beat; you could not send for
her, could you?"

"And she gave you that desk, did she?--how very kind of her," resumed Lawless, putting the
poker in the fire.

"Yes, was it not?" said I, eagerly. "I would not have any harm happen to it for more than I
can tell."

"So I suppose," replied Lawless, still devoting himself to the poker, which was rapidly becoming
red-hot. "Have you ever," continued he, "seen this new way they have of ornamenting things?
encaustic work, I think they call it:--it's done by the application of heat, you know."

"I never even heard of it," said I.

"Ah! I thought not," rejoined Lawless. "Well, as I happen to understand the process, I'll condescend
to enlighten your ignorance. Mullins, give me that desk."

"Don't touch it," cried I, bounding forward to the rescue; "I won't have anything done to it."

My design was, however, frustrated by Cumberland and Lawless, who, both throwing themselves
upon me at the same moment, succeeded, despite my struggles, in forcing me into a chair, where
they held me, while Mullins, by their direction, with the aid of sundry neckcloths, braces,
etc., tied me hand and foot; Coleman, who attempted to interfere in my behalf, receiving a
push which sent him reeling across the room, and a hint that if he did not mind his own business
he would be served in the same manner.

Having thus effectually placed me hors de combat, Lawless took possession of my poor writing-desk,
and commenced tracing on the top thereof, with the red-hot poker, what he was pleased to term
a "design from the antique," which consisted of a spirited outline of that riddle-loving female
the Sphinx, as she appeared when dressed in top-boots and a wide-awake, and regaling herself
with a choice cigar! He was giving the finishing touch to a large pair of moustaches, with
which he had embellished her countenance, and which he declared was the only thing wanting
to complete the likeness to an old aunt of Dr. Mildman's, whom the pupils usually designated
by the endearing appellation of "Growler," when the door opened, and Thomas announced that
"Smithson" was waiting to see Mr. Lawless.

"Oh yes, to be sure, let him come in; no, wait a minute. Here, you, Coleman and Mullins, untie
Fairlegh; be quick!--confound that desk, how it smells of burning, and I have made my hands
all black too. Well, Smithson, have you brought the things?"

The person to whom this query was addressed was a ~30~~young man, attired in the extreme of
the fashion, who lounged into the room with a "quite at home" kind of air, and, nodding familiarly
all around, arranged his curls with a ring-adorned hand, as he replied in a drawling tone:--

"Ya'as, Mr. Lawless, we're all right--punctual to a moment--always ready 'to come to time,'
as we say in the ring".

"Who is he?" whispered I to Coleman.

"Who is he?" replied Coleman; "why the best fellow in the world, to be sure'. Not know Smithson,
the prince of tailors, the tailor par excellence! I suppose you never heard of the Duke of
Wellington, have you?"

I replied humbly that I believed I had heard the name of that illustrious individual mentioned
in connection with Waterloo and the Peninsula--and that I was accustomed to regard him as the
first man of the age.

"Aye, well then, Smithson is the second; though I really don't know whether he is not quite
as great in his way as Wellington, upon my honour. The last pair of trousers he made for Lawless
were something sublime, too good for this wicked world, a great deal."

During this brief conversation Smithson had been engaged in extricating a somewhat voluminous
garment from the interior of a blue bag, which a boy, who accompanied him, had just placed
inside the study-door.

"There, this is the new invention I told you about; a man named Macintosh hit upon it. Now,
with this coat on, you might stand under a water-fall without getting even damp. Try it on,
Mr. Lawless; just the thing, eh, gents?"

Our curiosity being roused by this panegyric, we gathered round Lawless to examine the garment
which had called it forth. Such of my readers as recollect the first introduction of Macintoshes
will doubtless remember that the earlier specimens of the race differed very materially in
form from those which are in use at the present day. The one we were now inspecting was of
a whity-brown colour, and, though it had sleeves like a coat, hung in straight folds from the
waist to the ankles, somewhat after the fashion of a carter's frock, having huge pockets at
the side, and fastening round the neck with a hook and eye.

"How does it do?" asked Lawless, screwing himself round in an insane effort to look at the
small of his own back, a thing a man is certain to attempt when trying on a coat. "It does
not make a fellow look like a Guy, does it?"

~31~~"No, I rather admire the sort of thing," said Cumberland.

"A jolly dodge for a shower of rain, and no mistake," put in Coleman.

"It is deucedly fashionable, really," said Smithson--"this one of yours, and one we made for
Augustus Flareaway, Lord Fitz-scamper's son, the man in the Guards, you know, are the only
two out yet."

"I have just got it at the right time then," said Lawless; "I knew old Sam was going to town,
so I settled to drive Clayton over to Woodend, in the tandem, to-morrow. The harriers meet
there at eleven, and this will be the very thing to hide the leathers, and tops, and the green
cutaway. I saw you at the match, by-the-by, Smithey, this morning."

"Ya'as, I was there; did you see the thing I was on?"

"A bright bay, with a star on the forehead! a spicy-looking nag enough--whose is it?"

"Why, young Robarts, who came into a lot of tin the other day, has just bought it; Snaffles
charged him ninety guineas for it."

"And what is it worth?" asked Lawless.

"Oh! he would not do a dirty thing by any gent I introduced," replied Smithson. "I took young
Robarts there: he merely made his fair profit out of it; he gave forty pounds for it himself
to a man who bred it, only the week before, to my certain knowledge: it's a very sweet thing,
and would carry him well, but he's afraid to ride it; that's how I was on it to-day. I'm getting
it steady for him."

"A thing it will take you some time to accomplish, eh? A mount like that is not to be had for
nothing, every day, is it?"

"Ya'as, you're about right there, Mr. Lawless; you're down to every move, I see, as usual.
Any orders to-day, gents? your two vests will be home to-morrow, Mr. Coleman."

"Here, Smithson, wait a moment," said Cumberland, drawing him on one side; "I was deucedly
unlucky with the balls this morning," continued he in a lower tone, "can you let me have five-and-twenty
pounds?"

"What you please, sir," replied Smithson, bowing.

"On the old terms, I suppose?" observed Cumberland.

"All right," answered Smithson; "stay, I can leave it with you now," added he, drawing out
a leather case; "oblige me by writing your name here--thank you."

So saying, he handed some bank-notes to Cumberland, carefully replaced the paper he had received
from him in his pocket-book, and withdrew.

~32~~"Smithey was in great force to-night," observed Lawless, as the door closed behind him--"nicely
they are bleeding that young ass Robarts among them--he has got into good hands to help him
to get rid of his money, at all events. I don't believe Snaffles gave forty pounds for that
bay horse; he has got a decided curb on the off hock, if I ever saw one, and I fancy he's a
little touched in the wind, too and there's another thing I should say----"

What other failing might be attributed to Mr. Robarts' bay steed we were, however, not destined
to learn, as tea was at this moment announced. In due time followed evening prayers, after
which we retired for the night. Being very sleepy I threw off my clothes, and jumped hastily
into bed, by which act I became painfully aware of the presence of what a surgeon would term
"certain foreign bodies"--i.e., not, as might be imagined, sundry French, German, and Italian
corpses, but various hard substances, totally opposed to one's preconceived ideas of the component
parts of a feather-bed. Sleep being out of the question on a couch so constituted, I immediately
commenced an active search, in the course of which I succeeded in bringing to light two clothes-brushes,
a boot-jack, a pair of spurs, Lemprière's Classical Dictionary and a brick-bat. Having freed
myself from these undesirable bed-fellows I soon fell asleep, and passed (as it seemed to me)
the whole night in dreaming that I was a pigeon, or thereabouts, and that Smithson, mounted
on the top-booted Sphinx, was inciting Lawless to shoot at me with a red-hot poker.

As Coleman and I were standing at the window of the pupils' room, about ten o'clock on the
following morning, watching the vehicle destined to convey Dr. Mildman to the coach-office,
Lawless made his appearance, prepared for his expedition, with his hunting-costume effectually
concealed under the new Macintosh.

"Isn't Mildman gone yet? Deuce take it, what a time he is! I ought to be off--I'm too late
already!"

"They have not even put his carpet-bag in yet," said I.

"Well, I shall make a bolt, and chance it about his seeing me," exclaimed Lawless; "he'll only
think I'm going out for a walk rather earlier than usual, if he does catch a glimpse of me,
so here's off."

Thus saying, he placed his hat upon his head, with the air of a man determined to do or die,
and vanished.

Fortune is currently reported to favour the brave, and so, to do her justice, she generally
does; still, at the best of times, she is but a fickle jade, at all events she appeared determined
to prove herself so in the present instance; for ~33~~scarcely had Lawless got a dozen paces
from the house, before Dr. Mildman appeared at the front door with his great coat and hat on,
followed by Thomas bearing a carpet-bag and umbrella, and, his attention being attracted by
footsteps, he turned his head, and beheld Lawless. As soon as he perceived him he gave a start
of surprise, and, pulling out his eye-glass (he was rather short-sighted), gazed long and fixedly
after the retreating figure. At length, having apparently satisfied himself as to the identity
of the person he was examining, he replaced his glass, stood for a moment as if confounded
by what he had seen, and then turning, abruptly re-entered the house, and shut his study-door
behind him with a bang, leaving Thomas and the fly-driver mute with astonishment. In about
five minutes he re-appeared, and saying to Thomas, in a stern tone, "Let that note be given
to Mr. Lawless the moment he returns," got into the fly and drove off.

"There's a precious go," observed Coleman; "I wonder what's in the wind now. I have not seen
old Sam get up the steam like that since I have been here. He was not half so angry when I
put Thomas's hat on the peg where he hangs his own, and he, never noticing the difference,
put it on, and walked to church in it, gold band and all."

"I wouldn't be Lawless for something," observed I; "I wonder what the note's about?"

"That's just what puzzles me," said Coleman. "I should have thought he had seen the sporting
togs, but that's impossible; he must have a penetrating glance indeed if he could see through
that Macintosh."

"Lawless was too impatient," said Cumberland; "he should have waited a few minutes longer,
and then Mildman would have gone off without knowing anything about him. Depend upon it, the
grand rule of life is to take things coolly, and wait for an opportunity: you have the game
in your own hands then, and can take advantage of the follies and passions of others, instead
of allowing them to avail themselves of yours."

"In plain English, cheat instead of being cheated," put in Coleman.

"You're not far wrong there, Freddy; the world is made up of knaves and fools--those who cheat,
and those who are cheated--and I, for one, have no taste for being a fool," said Cumberland.

"Nor I," said Mullins; "I should not like to be a fool at all; I had rather be----"

"A butterfly," interrupted Coleman, thereby astonishing Mullins to such a degree that he remained
silent for ~34~~some moments, with his mouth wide open as if in the act of speaking.

"You cannot mean what you say; you surely would not wish to cheat people," said I to Cumberland;
"if it were really true that one must be either a knave or a fool, I'd rather be a fool by
far--I'm sure you could never be happy if you cheated any one," continued I. "What does the
Bible say about doing to others as you would have others do to you?"

"There, don't preach to me, you canting young prig," said Cumberland angrily, and immediately
left the room.

"You hit him pretty hard then," whispered Coleman; "a very bad piece of business happened just
before I came, about his winning a lot of tin from a young fellow here, at billiards, and they
do say that Cumberland did not play fairly. It was rather unlucky your saying it; he will be
your enemy from henceforth, depend upon it. He never forgets nor forgives a thing of that sort."

"I meant no harm by the remark," replied I; "I knew nothing of his having cheated any one;
however, I do not care; I don't like him, and I'm just as well pleased he should not like me.
But now, as my foreign relations seem to be rapidly assuming a warlike character (as the newspapers
have it), what do you say to giving me a lesson in sparring, as you proposed, by way of preparation?"

"With all my heart," replied Coleman.

And accordingly the gloves were produced, and my initiatory lesson in the pugilistic art commenced
by Coleman's first placing me in an exceedingly uncomfortable attitude, and then very considerately
knocking me out of it again, thereby depositing me with much skill and science flat upon the
hearth-rug. This manouvre he repeated with great success during some half hour or so, at the
end of which time I began to discover the knack with which it was done, and proceeded to demonstrate
the proficiency I was making, by a well-directed blow, which, being delivered with much greater
force than I had intended, sent Coleman flying across the room. Chancing to encounter Mullins
in the course, of his transit he overturned that worthy against the table in the centre of
the apartment, which, yielding to their combined weight, fell over with a grand crash, dragging
them down with it, in the midst of an avalanche of books, papers, and inkstands.

This grand coup brought, as might be expected, our lesson to a close for the day, Coleman declaring
that such another hit would inevitably knock him into the middle of next week, if not farther,
and that he really should not feel ~35~~justified in allowing such a serious interruption to
his studies to take place.

"And now, what are we going to do with ourselves?" asked I; "as this is a holiday, we ought
to do something."

"Are you fond of riding?" inquired Coleman.

"Nothing I like better," replied I; "I have been used to it all my life; I have had a pony
ever since I was four years old."

"I wish I was used to it," said Coleman. "My governor living in London, I never crossed a horse
till I came here, and I'm a regular muff at it; but I want to learn. What do you say to a ride
this afternoon?"

"Just the thing," said I, "if it is not too expensive for my pocket."

"Oh no," replied Coleman; "Snaffles lets horses at as cheap a rate as any one, and good 'uns
to go, too; does not he, Cumberland?"

"Eh, what are you talking about?" said Cumberland, who had just entered the room; "Snaffles?
Oh yes, he's the man for horse flesh. Are you going to amuse yourself by tumbling off that
fat little cob of his again, Fred?"

"I was thinking of having another try," replied Coleman; "what do you say, Fairlegh? Never
mind the tin; I daresay you have got plenty, and can get more when that's gone."

"I have got a ten-pound note," answered I; "but that must last me all this quarter: however,
we'll have our ride to-day."

"I'll walk down with you," said Cumberland; "I'm going that way; besides, it's worth a walk
any day to see Coleman mount; it took him ten minutes the last time I saw him, and then he
threw the wrong leg over, so that he turned his face to the tail."

"Scandalum magnatum! not a true bill," replied Coleman.

"Now, come along, Fairlegh, let's get ready, and be off." During our walk down to Snaffles'
stables Cumberland (who seemed entirely to have forgotten my mal à propos remark) talked to
me in a much more amiable manner than he had yet done; and the conversation naturally turning
upon horses and riding, a theme always interesting to me, I was induced to enter into sundry
details of my own exploits in that line. We reached the livery stables just as I had concluded
a somewhat egotistical relation concerning a horse which a gentleman in our neighbourhood had
bought for his invalid son, but which, proving at first too spirited, I had undertaken to ride
every day for a ~36~~month in order to get him quiet; a feat I was rather proud of having satisfactorily
accomplished.

"Good-morning, Mr. Snaffles; is Punch at home?" asked Coleman of a stout red-faced man, attired
in a bright green Newmarket coat and top-boots.

"Yes, sir. Mr. Lawless told me your governor was gone to town, so I kept him in, thinking perhaps
you would want him."

"That's all right," said Coleman; "and here's my friend, Mr. Fairlegh, will want a nag too."

"Proud to serve any gent as is a friend of yours, Mr. Coleman," replied Snaffles, with a bob
of his head towards me, intended as a bow. "What stamp of horse do you like, sir? Most of my
cattle are out with the harriers to-day."

"Snaffles--a word with you," interrupted Cumberland.

"One moment, sir," said Snaffles to me, as he crossed over to where Cumberland was standing.

"Come and look at Punch; and let's hear what you think of him," said Coleman, drawing me towards
the stable.

"What does Cumberland want with that man?" asked I.

"What, Snaffles? I fancy he owes a bill here, and I daresay it is something about that."

"Oh, is that all?" rejoined I.

"Why, what did you think it was?" inquired Coleman.

"Never mind," I replied; "let's look at Punch."

And accordingly I was introduced to a little fat, round, jolly-looking cob, about fourteen
hands high, who appeared to me an equine counterpart of Coleman himself. After having duly
praised and patted him I turned to leave the stable, just as Cumberland and Snaffles were passing
the door, and I caught the following words from the latter, who appeared rather excited:--

"Well, if any harm comes of it, Mr. Cumberland, you'll remember it's your doing, not mine".

Cumberland's reply was inaudible, and Snaffles turned to me, saying:--

"I've only one horse at home likely to suit you, sir; you'll find her rather high-couraged,
but Mr. Cumberland tells me you won't mind that".

"I have been mentioning what a good rider you say you are," said Cumberland, laying a slight
emphasis on the say.

"Oh, I daresay she will do very well," replied I. "I suppose she has no vice about her."

"Oh dear, no," said Snaffles, "nothing of the sort.--James," added he, calling to a helper,
"saddle the chestnut mare, and bring her out directly."

The man whom he addressed, and who was a fellow ~37~~with a good-humoured, honest face, became
suddenly grave, as he replied in a deprecatory tone:--

"The chestnut mare? Mad Bess, sir?"

"Don't repeat my words, but do as you are told," was the answer; and the man went away looking
surly.

After the interval of a few minutes a stable door opposite was thrown open, and Mad Bess made
her appearance, led by two grooms. She was a bright chestnut, with flowing mane and tail, about
fifteen-and-a-half hands high, nearly thorough-bred, and as handsome as a picture; but the
restless motion of her eye disclosing the white, the ears laid back at the slightest sound,
and a half-frightened, half-wild air, when any one went up to her, told a tale as to her temper,
about which no one in the least accustomed to horses could doubt for an instant.

"That mare is vicious," said I, as soon as I had looked at her.

"Oh dear, no, sir, quiet as a lamb, I can assure you. Soh, girl! soh!" said Snaffles, in a
coaxing tone of voice, attempting to pat her; but Bess did not choose to "soh," if by "sohing"
is meant, as I presume, standing still and behaving prettily; for on her master's approach
she snorted, attempted to rear, and ran back, giving the men at her head as much as they could
do to hold her.

"She's a little fresh to-day; she was not out yesterday, but it's all play, pretty creature!
nothing but play," continued Snaffles.

"If you are afraid, Fairlegh, don't ride her," said Cumberland; "but I fancied from your conversation
you were a bold rider, and did not mind a little spirit in a horse: you had better take her
in again, Snaffles."

"Leave her alone," cried I, quickly (for I was becoming irritated by Cumberland's sneers, in
spite of my attempt at self-control), "I'll ride her. I'm no more afraid than other people;
nor do I mind a spirited horse, Cumberland; but that mare is more than spirited, she's ill-tempered--look
at her eye!"

"Well, you had better not ride her, then," said Cumberland.

"Yes, I will," answered I, for I was now thoroughly roused, and determined to go through with
the affair, at all hazards. I was always, even as a boy, of a determined, or, as ill-natured
people would call it, obstinate disposition, and I doubt whether I am entirely cured of the
fault at the present time.

"Please yourself; only mind, I have warned you not to ride her if you are afraid," said Cumberland.

~38~~"A nice warning," replied I, turning away;--"who'll lend me a pair of spurs?"

"I've got a pair here, sir; if you'll step this way I'll put them on for you," said the man
whom I had heard addressed as "James,"--adding, in a lower tone, as he buckled them on, "for
Heaven's sake, young gentleman, don't mount that mare unless you're a first-rate rider."

"Why, what's the matter with her? does she kick?" inquired I.

"She'll try and pitch you off, if possible, and if she can't do that, she'll bolt with you,
and then the Lord have mercy upon you!"

This was encouraging, certainly!

"You are an honest fellow, James," replied I; "and I am much obliged to you. Ride her I must,
my honour is at stake, but I'll be as careful as I can, and, if I come back safe, you shall
have half a crown."

"Thank you, sir," was the reply, "I shall be glad enough to see you come back in any other
way than on a shutter, without the money."

Of a truth, the race of Job's comforters is not yet extinct, thought I, as I turned to look
for Coleman, who had been up to this moment employed in superintending the operation of saddling
Punch, and now made his appearance, leading that renowned steed by the bridle.

"Why, Fairlegh, you are not going to ride that vicious brute to be sure; even Lawless won't
mount her, and he does not care what he rides in general."

"Nevermind about Lawless," said I, assuming an air of confidence I was very far from feeling;
"she won't eat me, I daresay."

"I don't know that," rejoined Coleman, regarding Mad Bess with a look of horror; "Cumberland,
don't let him mount her."

"Nay, I can't prevent it; Fairlegh is his own master, and must do as he likes," was the answer.

"Come, we can't keep the men standing here the whole day," said I to Coleman; "mount Punch,
and get out of my way as fast as you can, if you are going to do so at all"--a request with
which, seeing I was quite determined, he at length unwillingly complied, and having, after
one or two failures, succeeded in throwing his leg over the cob's broad back, rode slowly out
of the yard, and took up his station outside in order to witness my proceedings.

"Now, then," said I, "keep her as steady as you can for a minute, and as soon as I am fairly
mounted give her her head--stand clear there."

~39~~I then took a short run, and, placing one hand on the saddle, while I seized a lock of
the mane with the other, I sprang from the ground and vaulted at once upon her back, without
the aid of the stirrup, a feat I had learned from a groom who once lived with us, and which
stood me in good stead on the present occasion, as I thereby avoided a kick with which Mad
Bess greeted my approach. I next took up the reins as gently as I could, the men let go her
head, and after a little plunging and capering, though much less than I had expected, her ladyship
gave up hostilities for the present, and allowed me to ride her quietly up and down the yard.
I then wished Cumberland (who looked, as I thought, somewhat mortified) a good-afternoon, turned
a deaf ear to the eulogies of Mr. Snaffles and his satellites, and proceeded to join Coleman.
As I left the yard my friend James joined me, under the pretence of arranging my stirrup leather,
when he took the opportunity of saying:--

"She'll go pretty well now you're once mounted, sir, as long as you can hold her with the snaffle,
but if you are obliged to use the curb--look out for squalls!!!"

          We gained the top, a boundless plain
          Spreads onward.

          My heart turned sick, my brain grew sore,
          And throbbed awhile, then beat no more,
          The sky spun like a mighty wheel,
          And a slight flash sprang o'er my eyes,
          Which saw no farther."

          Mazeppa.

OUT of consideration for the excitable disposition of Mad Bess we took our way along the least
bustling streets we could select; directing our course towards the outskirts of the town, behind
which extended for some miles a ~40~~portion of the range of hills known as the South Downs,
over the smooth green turf of which we promised ourselves a canter. As we rode along Coleman
questioned me as to what could have passed while he was seeing Punch saddled, to make me determine
to ride the chestnut mare, whose vicious disposition was, he informed me, so well known, that
not only would no one ride her who could help it, but that Snaffles, who was most anxious to
get rid of her, had not as yet been able to find a purchaser. In reply to this I gave him a
short account of what had occurred, adding my more than suspicion that the whole matter had
been arranged by Cumberland, in which notion he entirely agreed with me.

"I was afraid of something of this sort, when I said I was sorry you had made that remark about
cheating to him this morning--you see, he would no doubt suppose you had heard the particulars
of his gambling affair, and meant to insult him by what you said, and he has done this out
of revenge. Oh, how I wish we were safely at home again; shall we turn back now?"

"Not for the world," said I--"you will find, when you know me better, that when once I have
undertaken a thing, I will go through with it--difficulties only make me more determined."

"Ah!" said Coleman, "you should get somebody to write a book about you, that is the kind of
disposition they always give to the heroes of novels, the sort of character that will go and
run his head against a brick wall to prove that it is the harder and thicker of the two--they
knock out their brains though, sometimes, in doing it, when they happen to have any--it is
very pretty to read about, splendid in theory, but I much doubt its acting so well if you come
to put it in practice."

"You may laugh at me, if you please," replied I; "but depend upon it, a man of energy and determination
will undertake great deeds, aye, and perform them too, which your prudent, cautious character
would have considered impossibilities."

"Perhaps it may be so," was the reply; "I know I am not the sort of stuff they cut heroes out
of--woa, Punch! steady, old boy; holloa, what ails him? this is getting serious."

During this conversation we had been gradually leaving the town behind us and approaching the
downs, and had arrived at a point where the road became a mere cart-track, and the open country
lay spread for miles before us. Our two steeds, which had up to the present time ~41~~conducted
themselves with the greatest propriety, now began to show signs of excitement, and, as the
fresh air from the downs blew against their nostrils, they tossed their heads, snorted, and
exchanged the quiet jog-trot pace at which we had been proceeding, for a dancing, sidelong
motion, which somewhat disturbed Coleman's equanimity, and elicited from him the expressions
above recorded. The road at the same time becoming uneven and full of ruts, we agreed to turn
our horses' heads, and quit it for the more tempting pathway afforded by the green-sward. No
sooner, however, did Punch feel the change from the hard road to the soft elastic footing of
the turf, than he proceeded to demonstrate his happiness by slightly elevating his heels and
popping his head down between his forelegs, thereby jerking the rein loose in Coleman's hand;
and, perceiving that his rider (who was fully employed in grasping the pommel of his saddle
in order to preserve his seat) made no effort to check his vivacity, he indulged his high spirits
still further by setting off at a brisk canter.

"Pull him in," cried I, "you'll have him run away with you; pull at him."

Whether my advice was acted upon or not I was unable to observe, as my whole attention was
demanded by Mad Bess, who appeared at length resolved to justify the propriety of her appellation.
Holding her in by means of the snaffle alone had been quite as much as I had been able to accomplish
during the last ten minutes, and this escapade on the part of Punch brought the matter to a
crisis. I must either allow her to follow him, i.e., to run away, or use the curb to prevent
it. Seating myself, therefore, as firmly as I could, and gripping the saddle tightly with my
knees, I took up the curb rein, which till now had been hanging loosely on the mare's neck,
and gradually tightened it. This did not, for a moment, seem to produce any effect, but as
soon as I drew the rein sufficiently tight to check her speed, she stopped short, and shook
her head angrily. I attempted gently to urge her on--not a step except backwards would she
stir--at length in despair I touched her slightly with the spur, and then "the fiend within
her woke," and proceeded to make up for lost time with a vengeance. The moment the mare felt
the spur she reared until she stood perfectly erect, and fought the air with her forelegs.
Upon this I slackened the rein, and, striking her over the ears with my riding-whip, brought
her down again;--no sooner, however, had her forefeet touched the ground than she gave ~42~~two
or three violent plunges, which nearly succeeded in unseating me, jerked down her head so suddenly
as to loosen the reins from my grasp, kicked viciously several times, and, seizing the cheek
of the bit between her teeth so as to render it utterly useless (evidently an old trick of
hers), sprang forward at a wild gallop. The pace at which we were going soon brought us alongside
of Punch, who, having thoroughly mastered his rider, considered it highly improper that any
steed should imagine itself able to pass him, and therefore proceeded to emulate the pace of
Mad Bess. Thereupon a short but very spirited race ensued, the cob's pluck enabling him to
keep neck and neck for a few yards; but the mare was going at racing speed, and the length
of her stride soon began to tell; Punch, too, showed signs of having nearly had enough of it.
I therefore shouted to Coleman as we were leaving them: "Keep his head up hill, and you'll
be able to pull him in directly". His answer was inaudible, but when 1 turned my head two or
three minutes afterwards I was glad to see that he had followed my advice with complete success--Punch
was standing still, about half a mile off, while his rider was apparently watching my course
with looks of horror. All anxiety on his account being thus at an end, I proceeded to take
as calm a view of my own situation as circumstances would allow, in order to decide on the
best means of extricating myself therefrom. We had reached the top of the first range of hills
I have described, and were now tearing at a fearful rate down the descent on the opposite side.
It was clear that the mare could not keep up the pace at which she was going for any length
of time: still she was in first-rate racing condition, not an ounce of superfluous flesh about
her, and, though she must have gone more than two miles already, she appeared as fresh as when
we started. I therefore cast my eyes around in search of some obstacle which might check her
speed. The slope down which we were proceeding extended for about a mile before us, after which
the ground again began to rise. In the valley between the two hills was a small piece of cultivated
land, enclosed (as is usual in the district I am describing) within a low wall, built of flint-stones
from the beach. Towards this I determined to guide the mare as well as I was able, in the hope
that she would refuse the leap, in which case I imagined I might pull her in. The pace at which
we were going soon brought us near the spot, when I was glad to perceive that the wall was
a more formidable obstacle than I had at first imagined, being fully six feet high, with a
ditch in ~43~~front of it. I therefore selected a place where the ditch seemed widest, got
her head up by sawing her mouth with the snaffle, and put her fairly at it. No sooner did she
perceive the obstacles before her than, slightly moderating her pace, she appeared to collect
herself, gathered her legs well under her, and, rushing forward, cleared wall, ditch, and at
least seven feet of ground beyond, with a leap like a deer, alighting safely with me on her
back on the opposite side, where she continued her course with unabated vigour.

We had crossed the field (a wheat stubble) ere I had recovered from my astonishment at finding
myself safe, after such a leap as I had most assuredly never dreamt of taking. Fortunately
there was a low gate on the farther side, towards which I guided the mare, for though I could
not check, I was in some measure able to direct, her course. This time, however, she either
did not see the impediment in her way, or despised it, as, without abating her speed, she literally
rushed through the gate, snapping into shivers with her chest the upper bar, which was luckily
rotten, and clearing the lower ones in her stride. The blow, and the splintered wood flying
about her ears, appeared to frighten her afresh, and she tore up the opposite ascent, which
was longer and steeper than the last, like a mad creature. I was glad to perceive, however,
that the pace at which she had come, and the distance (which must have been several miles),
were beginning to tell--her glossy coat was stained with sweat and dust, while her breath,
drawn with short and laboured sobs, her heaving flanks, and the tremulous motion of her limbs,
afforded convincing proofs that the struggle could not be protracted much longer. Still she
continued to hold the bit between her teeth as firmly as though it were in a vice, rendering
any attempt to pull her in utterly futile. We had now reached the crest of the hill, when I
was not best pleased to perceive that the descent on the other side was much more precipitous
than any I had yet met with. I endeavoured, therefore, to pull her head round, thinking it
would be best to try and retrace our steps, but I soon found that it was useless to attempt
it. The mare had now become wholly unmanageable; I could not guide her in the slightest decree;
and, though she was evidently getting more and more exhausted, she still continued to gallop
madly forwards, as though some demon had taken possession of her, and was urging her on to
our common destruction. As we proceeded down the hill our speed increased from the force of
gravitation, till we actually seemed to ~44~~fly--the wind appeared to shriek as it rushed
past my ears, while, from the rapidity with which we were moving, the ground seemed to glide
from under us, till my head reeled so giddily that I was afraid I should fall from the saddle.

We had proceeded about half way down the descent when, on passing one or two stunted bushes
which had concealed the ground beyond, I saw, oh, horror of horrors! what appeared to be the
mouth of an old chalk-pit, stretching dark and unfathomable right across our path, about 300
yards before us. The mare perceives it when too late, attempts to stop, but from the impetus
with which she is going is unable to do so. Another moment, and we shall be over the brink!
With the energy of despair I lifted her with the rein with both hands, and drove the spurs
madly into her flanks;--she rose to the leap, there was a bound! a sensation of flying through
the air! a crash! and I found myself stretched in safety on the turf beyond, and Mad Bess lying,
panting, but uninjured beside me.

To spring upon my feet, and seize the bridle of the mare, who had also by this time recovered
her footing, was the work of a moment. I then proceeded to look around, in order to gain a
more clear idea of the situation in which I was placed, in the hope of discovering the easiest
method of extricating myself from it. Close behind me lay the chalk-pit, and, as I gazed down
its rugged sides, overgrown with brambles and rank weeds, I shuddered to think of the probable
fate from which I had been so almost miraculously preserved, and turned away with a heartfelt
expression of thanksgiving to Him who had mercifully decreed that the thread of my young life
should not be snapped in so sudden and fearful a manner. Straight before me the descent became
almost suddenly precipitous, but a little to the right I perceived a sort of sheep-track, winding
downwards round the side of the hill. It was a self-evident fact that this must lead somewhere,
and, as all places were alike to me, so that they contained any human beings who were able
and willing to direct me towards Helmstone, I determined to follow it. After walking about
half a mile, Mad Bess (with her ears drooping, and her nose nearly touching the ground) following
me as quietly as a dog, I was rejoiced by the sight of curling smoke, and, on turning a corner,
I came suddenly upon a little village green, around which some half dozen cottages were scattered
at irregular distances. I directed my steps towards one of these, before which a ~45~~crazy
sign, rendered by age and exposure to the weather as delightfully vague and unintelligible
as though it had come fresh from the brush of Turner himself, hung picturesquely from the branch
of an old oak.

The sound of horse's feet attracted the attention of an elderly man, who appeared to combine
in his single person the offices of ostler, waiter, and boots, and who, as soon as he became
aware of my necessities, proceeded to fulfil the duties of these various situations with the
greatest alacrity. First (as of the most importance in his eyes) he rubbed down Mad Bess, and
administered some refreshment to her in the shape of hay and water; then he brought me a glass
of ale, declaring it would do me good (in which, by the way, he was not far from right). He
then brushed from my coat certain stains which I had contracted in my fall, and finally told
me my way to Helmstone. I now remounted Mad Bess, who, though much refreshed by the hay and
water, still continued perfectly quiet and tractable; and, setting off at a moderate trot,
reached the town, after riding about eight miles, without any further adventure, in rather
less than an hour.

As I entered the street in which Snaffles' stables were situated I perceived Coleman and Lawless
standing at the entrance of the yard, evidently awaiting my arrival.

When I got near them Coleman sprang eagerly forward to meet me, saying:--

"How jolly glad I am to see you safe again, old fellow! I was so frightened about you. How
did you manage to stop her?"

"Why, Fairlegh, I had no idea you were such a rider," exclaimed Lawless; "I made up my mind
you would break your neck, and old Sam be minus a pupil, when I heard you were gone out on
that mare. You have taken the devil out of her somehow, and no mistake; she's as quiet as a
lamb," added he, patting her.

"You were very near being right," replied I; "she did her best to break my neck and her own
too, I can assure you"

I then proceeded to relate my adventures, to which both Lawless and Coleman listened with great
attention; the former interrupting me every now and then with various expressions of commendation,
and when I had ended he shook me warmly by the hand, saying:--

"I give you great credit; you behaved in a very plucky manner all through; I didn't think you
had it in you; 'pon my word, I didn't. I shall just tell Cumberland and ~46~~Snaffles a bit
of my mind, too. Here, Snaffles, you confounded old humbug, where are you?"

"Oh, don't say anything to him," said I; "it's never worth while being angry with people of
that kind; besides, Cumberland made him do it."

"That does not signify; he knew the danger to which he was exposing you, perhaps better than
Cumberland did. He had no business to do it, and I'll make him beg your pardon before We leave
this yard. Here, you ostler fellow, where's your master?" shouted Lawless, as he turned into
the yard, where I soon heard the loud tones of his voice engaged in angry colloquy with Snaffles,
whose replies were inaudible.

In a short time the latter approached the spot where I was standing, and began a very long
and humble apology, saying that he should never have thought of giving me the mare if he had
not seen at a glance that I was a first-rate rider, and much more to the same purpose, when
Lawless interrupted him with:--

"There, cut it short; Mr. Fairlegh does not want any more of your blarney; and mind, if anything
of the sort occurs again, I shall hire my horses somewhere else, and take care to let all my
friends know why I do so. Now, let's be off; it's getting near dinner-time."

So saying, he turned to leave the yard, a movement which, as soon as I had found my friend
James, returned his spurs, and given him the promised half-crown, I proceeded to imitate: and
that ended the episode of Mad Bess.

CHAPTER VI -- LAWLESS GETS THOROUGHLY PUT OUT

~45~~

          ..." What 'tis
          To Have a stranger come--
          It seems you know him not
          No, sir! not I."
          --Southey.

          "Either forbear... or resolve you
          For more amazement: if you can behold it,
          I'll make the statue move indeed."
          --Winter's Tale.

          "Since the youth will not be entreated, his own peril on his
          forwardness....   You shall try but one fall."
          --As You Like It.

ON reaching home the door was opened by Thomas, who accosted us with:--

"Here's such a bit of fun, gentlemen! The new pupil's arrived, and ain't he a rum un, jest?
Oh, I never!"

~47~~"Why, how do you mean? what's he like, then?" asked Lawless.

"Oh, he's very well to look at, only he's as tall as a life-guardsman; but he's sich a free
and easy chap, and ain't he got a pretty good notion of making himself comfortable, too!--that's
all. But come in, gents, you'll soon see what I mean. He chucked the flyman who brought him
here half a guinea, and when I asked him if he did not want the change, for the fare was only
half a crown, he merely said 'Pooh!' and told me not to talk, for it tired him."

With our feelings of curiosity somewhat excited by this account we hastened into the pupils'
room, anxious to behold the individual who had so greatly astonished Thomas.

Seated in Dr. Mildman's arm-chair, and with his legs resting upon two other chairs, so arranged
as to form a temporary sofa, reclined a young man, apparently about eighteen, though his length
of limb, and the almost herculean proportions of his chest and shoulders, seemed rather to
belong to a more advanced age. He raised his head as we entered, disclosing a set of features
which, in spite of an expression of languor and indifference, must have been pronounced unusually
handsome. His complexion was a rich nut-brown; the high forehead, white as snow, contrasting
well with the dark hue of his hair, which, in short clustering curls, harmonised well with
the classical outline of his head, reminding one involuntarily of the young Antinous. The short
curling upper-lip, and well-chiselled nostril, told a tale of pride and resolution, strongly
at variance with the mild sleepy appearance of the large dark hazel eyes, to which the long
silken lashes that shaded them imparted an almost feminine expression. He did not attempt to
alter his position as we approached, but, merely turning his head, gazed at us steadfastly
for a moment, and then observed in a slow, half-absent manner:--

"Oh, the other pupils, I suppose--how do you do, all of you?"

Lawless, who was foremost, was so much surprised, and so little pleased at this nonchalant
style of address, that he made no reply, but turning on his heel proceeded to leave the room,
in order to divest himself of his hunting costume, muttering as he went, "Cool enough that,
by Jove, eh!"

The duty of doing the polite having thus devolved upon Coleman, he winked at me by way of preliminary,
and, ~48~~making a low bow in the true dancing-master style, replied as follows:--

"Your penetration has not erred, Mr. Oaklands; we are the other pupils; and in answer to your
obliging inquiries, I have much pleasure in informing you that we are all in perfect health
and very tolerable spirits; and now, sir, in return for your kind condescension, allow me,
in the absence of my superiors, to express a hope that you are feeling pretty comfortable--ahem!"

Having thus delivered himself, Coleman drew up his figure to its utmost height, and, folding
his arms with an air of pompous dignity, awaited an answer.

"Oh yes, I'm comfortable enough," was the reply; "I always am; only I'm so done up, tired as
a dog--the least thing fatigues me; I'm as weak as a rat! Don't they give you sofas here, Mr.
What's-your-name?"

"My name is Norval--I mean Coleman; my father divides his time between feeding his flocks on
the Grampian Hills, and fleecing his clients in Lincoln's Inn; though I must confess that ever
since I can remember, he has dropped the shepherd, and stuck to the solicitor, finding it pays
best, I suppose. Regarding the sofa, we have not one at present, but Dr. Mildman went to town
this morning; I did not till this moment know why. But now I see it all--he was doubtless aware
you would arrive to-day, and, finding he could not get a sufficiently comfortable sofa for
you in Helmstone, he is gone to London on purpose to procure one. There is still time to write
by the post, if there is any particular way in which you would like to have the stuffing arranged."

This speech made Oaklands raise his head, and look Coleman so fixedly in the face, with such
a clear, earnest, penetrating gaze, that it appeared as if he would read his very soul. Having
apparently satisfied himself, he smiled slightly, resumed his former attitude, and observed
in the same half-sleepy tone:--

"No, I'll leave all that to him; I am not particular. What time do you dine here?"

I replied (for the look I have described seemed to have had the wonderful effect of silencing
Coleman), "At five o'clock".

"Very good; and I believe there's a Mrs. Mildman, or some such person, is there not? I suppose
one must dress. Will you be so kind as to tell the servant to bring some hot water, and to
look out my things for me at a quarter before five? I hate to be obliged to hurry, it tires
one so."

~49~~Having said this, he took up a book which was lying by his side, and, murmuring something
about "talking being so fatiguing," soon became buried in its contents.

Whilst I was dressing for dinner Lawless came into my room, and told me that he had been speaking
to Cumberland with regard to the way in which he had behaved to me about the mare, and that
Cumberland professed himself exceedingly sorry that the affair had so nearly turned out a serious
one, declaring he meant it quite as a joke, never expecting that when I saw the mare I should
venture to mount her.

"So you see," continued Lawless, "he merely wanted to have a good laugh at you--nothing more.
It was a thoughtless thing to do, but not so bad as you had fancied it, by any means."

"Well," replied I, "as he says so, I am bound to believe him; but his manner certainly gave
me the impression that he intended me to ride her. He went the right way to make me do so,
at all events, by hinting that I was afraid."

"Ah! he could not know that by intuition, you see," said Lawless; "he thought, I daresay, as
I did, that you were a mere molly-coddle, brought up at your mother's apron-string, and had
not pluck enough in you to do anything sporting."

"It's not worth saying anything more about," replied I; "it will never happen again: I am very
much obliged to you, though."

"Oh, that's nothing," said Lawless; "if Cumberland had really meant to break your neck, I should
have fallen out with him; that would have been too much of a good thing: however, as it is
it's all right."

And so the conversation ended, though I felt far from satisfied in my own mind as to the innocence
of Cumberland's intentions.

On reaching the drawing-room I found the whole party assembled with the exception of Mr. Henry
Oaklands, who had not yet made his appearance. At the moment of my entrance Mrs. Mildman, who
had not seen the new arrival, and who, like the rest of her sex, was somewhat curious, was
examining Coleman (who stood bolt upright before her, with his hands behind him, looking like
a boy saying his lesson) as to his manners and appearance.

"Very tall, and dark hair and large eyes," continued Mrs. Mildman; "why, he must be very handsome."

"He seems as if he were half-asleep," observed I.

~50~~"Not always," said Coleman; "did you see the look he gave me? he seemed wide-awake enough
then; I thought he was going to eat me."

"Dear me I why he must be quite a cannibal! besides, I don't think you would be at all nice
to eat, Mr. Coleman," said Mrs. Mildman, with a smile.

"Horrid nasty, I'm sure," muttered Mullins, who was seated on the very edge of his chair, and
looked thoroughly uncomfortable, as was his wont in anything like civilised society.

At this moment the door opened, and Oaklands entered. If one had doubted about his height before,
when lying on the chairs, the question was set at rest the instant he was seen standing: he
must have measured at least six feet two inches, though the extreme breadth of his chest and
shoulders, and the graceful setting-on of his finely formed head, together with the perfect
symmetry and proportion of his limbs, prevented his appearing too tall. He went through the
ceremony of introduction with the greatest ease and self-possession; and though he infused
rather more courtesy into his manner towards Mrs. Mildman than he had taken the trouble to
bestow on us, his behaviour was still characterised by the same indolence and listlessness
I had previously noticed, and which indeed seemed part and parcel of himself. Having bowed
slightly to Cumberland and Lawless he seated himself very leisurely on the sofa by Mrs. Mildman's
side, altering one of the pillows so as to make himself thoroughly comfortable as he did so.
Having settled it to his satisfaction, he addressed Mrs. Mildman with:--

"What a very fatiguing day this has been; haven't you found it so?"

"No, I can't say I have," was the reply; "I daresay it was warm travelling: I'm afraid, in
that case, Dr. Mildman will not have a very pleasant journey--he's gone to town to-day."

"Ah, so that short, stout young gentleman" (the first two adjectives he pronounced very slowly
and distinctly) "told me."

"Mr. Coleman," insinuated Mrs. Mildman.

"Pleasant that," whispered Coleman to me.

"Take care," replied I, "he will hear you."

"I'm afraid," continued Oaklands, "the old gentleman will be quite knocked up. I wonder he
does not make two days' journey of it."

"Dr. Mildman is not so very old," observed Mrs. Mildman, in rather an annoyed tone of voice.

~51~~"I really beg pardon, I scarcely know why I said it," replied Oaklands, "only I somehow
fancied all tutors were between sixty and seventy--very absurd of me. My father sent all kind
of civil messages to the o---- to Dr. Mildman, only it is so much trouble to remember that
sort of thing."

At this point the conversation was interrupted by the announcement of dinner. Oaklands (from
whom I could not withdraw my eyes, so unlike anything I had ever met with before was he) was
evidently preparing to hand Mrs. Mildman down to dinner, as soon as he could summon sufficient
energy to move, but, perceiving Cumberland approach her for that purpose, he appeared to recollect
himself, smiled slightly as if at what he had been about to do, and, taking me by the arm, said:--

"Come, Master Curlylocks, you shall be my lady, and a very pretty girl you would make, too,
if you were properly bemuslined"; adding, as we went downstairs together, "You and I shall
be great friends, I'm sure; I like your face particularly. What a lot of stairs there are in
this house! they'll tire me to death."

When we returned to the pupils' room after dinner Lawless found, lying on the table, the note
Dr. Mildman had written in such a mysterious manner before he left home in the morning, and
proceeded to open it forthwith. Scarcely had he glanced his eye over it, when he was seized
with so violent a fit of laughter, that I expected every moment to see him fall out of his
chair. As soon as he had in some measure recovered the power of speaking he exclaimed:--

"Here, listen to this! and tell me if it is not the very best thing you ever heard in your
lives ". He then read as follows:--

"'It is not without much pain that I bring myself to write this note; but I feel that I should
not be doing my duty towards your excellent father, if I were to allow such extreme misconduct
on the part of his son to pass unreproved. I know not towards what scene of vulgar dissipation
you might be directing your steps, but the simple fact (to which I was myself witness) of your
leaving my house in the low disguise of a carter's smock-frock, affords in itself sufficient
proof that your associates must belong to a class of persons utterly unfitted for the companionship
of a gentleman. Let me hope this hint may be enough, and that conduct so thoroughly disgraceful
in one brought up as you have been may not occur again. I presume I need scarcely say that,
in the event of your ~52~~disregarding my wishes upon this point, the only course left open
to me would be to expel you, a measure to which it would deeply grieve me to be obliged to
resort.'"

His voice was here drowned by a chorus of laughter from all present who were aware of the true
state of the case, which lasted without interruption for several minutes. At length Lawless
observed:--

"I'll tell you what, it will be a death-blow to Smithson; a Macintosh made by him to be taken
for a smock-frock! he'll never recover it ".

"Mildman might well look like a thunder-cloud," said Coleman, "if that was the notion he had
got in his head; what a jolly lark, to be sure!"

"How do you mean to undeceive him?" inquired Cumberland.

"Oh, trust me for finding a way to do that," replied Lawless; "'the low disguise of a carter's
smock-frock,' indeed! What fun it would be if he were to meet my governor in town to-day, and
tell him of my evil courses! why, the old boy would go into fits! I wonder what he means by
his 'scenes of vulgar dissipation'? I daresay he fancies me playing all-fours with a beery
coalheaver, and kissing his sooty-faced wife; or drinking alternate goes of gin-and-water with
a dustman for the purpose of insinuating myself into the affections of Miss Cinderella Smut,
his interesting sister. By Jove! it's as good as a play!"

More laughter followed Lawless's illustration of Dr. Mildman's note. The subject was discussed
for some time, and a plan arranged for enlightening the Doctor as to the true character of
the mysterious garment.

At length there was a pause, when I heard Coleman whisper to Lawless:--

"Thomas was pretty right in saying that new fellow knows how to make himself comfortable, at
all events".

"He's a precious deal too free and easy to please me," muttered Lawless, in an undertone; "I
shall take the liberty of seeing whether his self-possession cannot be disturbed a little.
I have no notion of such airs. Here, Mullins!"

And laying hold of Mullins by the arm, he pulled him into a chair by his side, and proceeded
to give him some instructions in a whisper. The subject of their remarks, Harry Oaklands, who
had, on re-entering the room, taken possession of the three chairs near the window, was still
reclining, book in hand, in the same indolent position, apparently enjoying the beauty of the
autumnal sunset, without concerning himself in the slightest degree about anything which might
be going on inside the room.

~53~~Lawless, whose proceedings I was watching with an anxious eye, having evidently succeeded,
by a judicious mixture of bullying and cajollery, in persuading Mullins to assist him in whatever
he was about to attempt, now drew a chair to the other side of the window, and seated himself
exactly opposite to Oaklands.

"How tired riding makes a fellow! I declare I'm regularly baked, used completely up," he observed,
and then continued, glancing at Oaklands, "Not such a bad idea, that. Mullins, give us a chair;
I don't see why elevating the extremities should not pay in my case, as well as in other people's."

He then placed his legs across the chair which Mullins brought him, and, folding his arms so
as exactly to imitate the attitude of his opposite neighbour, sat for some minutes gazing out
of the window with a countenance of mock solemnity. Finding this did not produce any effect
on Oaklands, who, having slightly raised his eyes when Lawless first seated himself, immediately
cast them upon the book again, Lawless stretched himself, yawned, and once more addressed Mullins.

"Shocking bad sunset as ever I saw--it's no go staring at that. I must have a book--give me
the Byron."

To this Mullins replied that he believed Mr. Oaklands was reading it.

"Indeed! the book belongs to you, does it not?"

Mullins replied in the affirmative.

"Have you any objection to lend it to me?"

Mullins would be most happy to do so.

"Then ask the gentleman to give it to you--you have a right to do what you please with your
own property, I imagine?"

It was very evident that this suggestion was not exactly agreeable to Mullins; and although
his habitual fear of Lawless was so strong as completely to overpower any dread of what might
be the possible consequences of his act, it was not without much hesitation that he approached
Oaklands, and asked him for the book, as he wished to lend it to Lawless.

On hearing this Oaklands leisurely turned to the fly-leaf, and, having apparently satisfied
himself, by the perusal of the name written thereon, that it really belonged to Mullins, handed
it to him without a word. I fancied, however, from the stern expression of his mouth and a
slight contraction of the brow, that he was not as insensible to their impertinence as he wished
to appear.

Lawless, who had been sitting during this little scene ~54~~with his eyes closed, as if asleep,
now roused himself, and saying, "Oh, you have got it at last, have you?" began turning over
the pages, reading aloud a line or two here and there, while he kept up a running commentary
on the text as he did so:--

"Hum! ha! now let's see, here we are--the 'g-i-a-o-u-r,'--that's a nice word to talk about.
What does g-i-a-o-u-r spell, Mullins? Hang me, if I can read this trash; the only poetry that
ever was written worth reading is 'Don Juan'."

He then flung the book down, adding:--

"It's confoundedly cold, I think. Mullins, shut that window."

This order involved more difficulties in its execution than might at first be imagined. Oaklands,
after giving up the book, had slightly altered his position by drawing nearer the window and
leaning his elbow on the sill, so that it was impossible to shut it without obliging him to
move. Mullins saw this, and seemed for a moment inclined not to obey, but a look and a threatening
gesture from Lawless again decided him; and with slow unwilling steps he approached the window,
and laid his hand on it, for the purpose of shutting it. As he did so, Oaklands raised his
head, and regarded him for a moment with a glance like lightning, his large eyes glaring in
the twilight like those of some wild animal, while the red flush of anger rose to his brow,
and we all expected to see him strike Mullins to the ground. Conquering himself, however, by
a powerful effort of self-control, he folded his arms, and, turning from the window, suffered
Mullins to close it without interruption. Still I could perceive, from ~55~~the distended nostril
and quivering lip, that his forbearance was almost exhausted.

"Ah, that's an improvement," said Lawless; "I was getting uncommonly chilly. By the way, what
an interesting virtue patience is; it is a curious fact in Natural History that some of the
lower animals share it with us; for instance, there's nothing so patient as a jack-ass----"

"Except a pig," put in Mullins; "they're uncommon--"

"Obstinate," suggested Coleman.

"Oh, ah! it's obstinate I mean," replied Mullins. "Well, you know donkeys are obstinate, like
a pig; that's what I meant."

"Don't be a fool," said Lawless. "Deuce take these chairs, I cannot make myself comfortable
anyhow--the fact is, I must have three, that's the proper number--give me another, Mullins."

"I can't find one," was the answer; "they are all in use."

"Can't find one! nonsense," said Lawless; "here, take one of these; the gentleman is asleep,
and won't object, I daresay."

When Mullins was shutting the window his head had been so turned as to prevent his observing
the symptoms of anger in Oaklands, which had convinced me that he would not bear trifling with
much longer. Presuming, therefore, from the success of his former attacks, that the new pupil
was a person who might be insulted with impunity, and actuated by that general desire of retaliation,
which is the certain effect bullying produces upon a mean disposition, Mullins proceeded, con
amore, to fulfil Lawless's injunction. With a sudden snatch he withdrew the centre chair, on
which Oaklands' legs mainly rested, so violently as nearly to throw them to the ground, a catastrophe
which was finally consummated by Lawless giving the other chair a push with his foot, so that
it was only by great exertion and quickness that Oaklands was able to save himself from falling.

This was the climax; forbearance merely human could endure no longer: Lawless had obtained
his object of disturbing Harry Oaklands' self-possession, and was now to learn the consequences
of his success. With a bound like that of an infuriated tiger, Oaklands leaped upon his feet,
and, dashing Mullins into a corner with such force that he remained lying exactly where he
fell, he sprang upon Lawless, seized him by the collar of his coat, and after a short but severe
struggle dragged him to the ~56~~window, which was about eight feet from the ground, threw
it open, and taking him in his arms with as much ease as if he had been a child flung him out.
He then returned to the corner in which, paralysed with fear, Mullins was still crouching,
drew him to the spot from whence he had removed the chair, placed him there upon his hands
and knees, and saying, in a stern voice, "If you dare to move till I tell you, I'll throw you
out of the window too," quietly resumed his former position, with his legs resting upon Mullins'
back instead of a chair.

As soon as Coleman and I had in some degree recovered from our surprise and consternation (for
the anger of Oaklands once roused was a fearful thing to behold), we ran to the other window,
just in time to see Lawless, who had alighted among some stunted shrubs, turn round and shake
his fist at Oaklands (who merely smiled), ere he regained his feet, and rang the bell in order
to gain admittance. A minute afterwards we heard him stride upstairs, enter his bedroom, and
close the door with a most sonorous bang. Affairs remained in this position nearly a quarter
of an hour, no one feeling inclined to be the first to speak. At length the silence was broken
by Oaklands, who, addressing himself to Cumberland, said:--

"I am afraid this absurd piece of business has completely marred the harmony of the evening.
Get up, Mr. Mullins," he continued, removing his legs, and assisting him to rise; "I hope I
did not hurt you just now."

In reply to this Mullins grumbled out something intended as a negative, and, shambling across
the room, placed himself in a corner, as far as possible from Oaklands, where he sat rubbing
his knees, the very image of sulkiness and terror. Cumberland, who appeared during the whole
course of the affair absorbed in a book, though, in fact, not a single word or look had escaped
him, now came forward and apologised, in a quiet, gentlemanly manner (which, when he was inclined,
no one could assume with greater success), for Lawless's impertinence, which had only, he said,
met with its proper reward.

"You must excuse me, Mr. Cumberland, if I cannot agree with you," replied Oaklands; "since
I have had time to cool a little, I see the matter in quite a different light. Mr. Lawless
was perfectly right; the carelessness of my manner must naturally have seemed as if I were
purposely giving myself airs, but I can assure you such was not the case."

He paused for a moment, and then continued, with a half-embarrassed smile:--

~57~~"The fact is, I am afraid that I have been spoiled at home; my mother died when I was
a little child, and my dear father, having nobody else to care about, thought, I believe, that
there was no one in the world equal to me, and that nothing was too good for me. Of course,
all our servants and people have taken their tone from him, so that I have never had any one
to say to me, 'Nay,' and am therefore not at all used to the sort of thing. I hope I do not
often lose my temper as I have done this evening; but really Mr. Lawless appears quite an adept
in the art of ingeniously tormenting."

"I am afraid you must have found so much exertion very fatiguing," observed Coleman, politely.

"A fair hit, Mr. Coleman," replied Oaklands, laughing. "No! those are not the things that tire
me, somehow; but in general I am very easily knocked up--I am indeed--most things are so much
trouble, and I hate trouble; I suppose it is that I am not strong."

"Wretchedly weak, I should say," rejoined Coleman; "it struck me that you were so just now,
when you chucked Lawless out of the window like a cat."

"Be quiet, Freddy," said Cumberland, reprovingly.

"Nay, don't stop him," said Oaklands; "I delight in a joke beyond measure, when I have not
the trouble of making it myself. But about this Mr. Lawless, I am exceedingly sorry that I
handled him so roughly; would you mind going to tell him so, Mr. Cumberland, and explaining
that I did not mean anything offensive by my manner?"

"Exactly, I'll make him understand the whole affair, and bring him down with me in five minutes,"
said Cumberland, leaving the room as he spoke.

"What makes Cumberland so good-natured and amiable to-night?" whispered I to Coleman.

"Can't you tell?" was the reply. "Don't you see that Oaklands is a regular top-sawyer, a fish
worth catching; and that by doing this, Cumberland places him under an obligation at first
starting? Not a bad move to begin with, eh? Besides, if a regular quarrel between Lawless and
Oaklands were to ensue, Cumberland would have to take one side or the other; and it would not
exactly suit him to break with Lawless, he knows too much about him; besides," added he, sinking
his voice, "he owes him money, more than I should like to owe anybody a precious deal, I can
tell you. Now, do you twig?"

"Yes," said I, "I comprehend the matter more clearly, if that is what you mean by twigging;
but how shocking ~58~~it all is! why, Cumberland is quite a swindler--gambling, borrowing money
he can't pay, and----"

"Hush!" interrupted Coleman, "here they come."

Coleman was not mistaken: Cumberland had been successful in his embassy, and now entered the
room, accompanied by Lawless, who looked rather crestfallen, somewhat angry, and particularly
embarrassed and uncomfortable, which, as Coleman whispered to me, was not to be wondered at,
considering how thoroughly he had been put out just before., Oaklands, however, appeared to
see nothing of all this; but, rising from his seat as they entered, he approached Lawless,
saying:--

"This has been a foolish piece of business, Mr. Lawless; I freely own that I am thoroughly
ashamed of the part I have taken in it, and I can only apologise for the intemperate manner
in which I behaved".

The frank courtesy with which he said this was so irresistible, that Lawless was completely
overcome, and, probably for the first time in his life, felt himself thoroughly in the wrong.
Seizing Oaklands' hand, therefore, and shaking it heartily, he replied:--

"I'll tell you what it is, Oaklands--we don't Mr. each other here--you are a right good fellow--a
regular brick, and no mistake; and as to your shoving me out of the window, you served me quite
right for my abominable impertinence. I only wonder you did not do it ten minutes sooner, that's
all; but you really ought to be careful what you do with those arms of yours; I was like a
child in your grasp; you are as strong as a steam engine."

"I can assure you I am not," replied Oaklands; "they never let me do anything at home, for
fear I should knock myself up."

"You are more likely to knock other people down, I should say," rejoined Lawless; "and, by
the way, that reminds me--Mullins! come here, stupid, and beg Mr. Oaklands' pardon, and thank
him for knocking you down."

A sulky, half-muttered "shan't," was the only reply.

"Nay, I don't want anything of that kind; I don't indeed, Lawless; pray leave him alone," cried
Oaklands eagerly.

But Lawless was not so easily quieted, and Oaklands, unwilling to risk the harmony so newly
established between them, did not choose to interfere further; so Mullins was dragged across
the room by the ears, and was forced by Lawless, who stood over him with the poker (which,
he informed him, he was destined to eat red-hot if he became restive), to make Oaklands a long
and ~59~~formal apology, with a short form of thanksgiving appended, for the kindness and condescension
he had evinced in knocking him down so nicely, of which oration he delivered himself with a
very bad grace indeed.

"And all went merry as a marriage-bell," until we were summoned to the drawing-room, where
we were regaled with weak tea, thin bread and butter, and small conversation till ten o'clock,
when Mrs. Mildman proceeded to read prayers, which, being a duty she was little accustomed
to, and which consequently rendered her extremely nervous, she did not accomplish without having
twice called King William, George, and suppressed our gracious Queen Adelaide altogether.

CHAPTER VII -- THE BOARD OF GREEN CLOTH

          "What have we here--a man or a fish?"
          --The Tempest.

          '"The devil he baited a trap,
          With billiard balls and a cue;

          And he chose as marker,

          An imp much darker
          Than all the rest in hue.
          And he put on his Sunday clothes,
          And he played with saint and with sinner,

          For he'd found out a way

          To make the thing pay,
          And when losing, He still was the winner!"
          --Old Legend.

THE moment Dr. Mildman arrived at home the next day Lawless watched him into his study, and,
as soon as he was safely lodged therein, proceeded, by the aid of sundry nails and loops previously
placed there for the purpose, to hang his Macintosh right across the passage, so that no one
could leave the study without running against it. He then ambushed himself near the open door
of the pupils' room, where, unseen himself, he could observe the effect of his arrangements.
Coleman and I, also taking a lively interest in the event, ensconced ourselves in a favourable
position for seeing and hearing. After waiting till our small stock of patience was nearly
exhausted, we were rewarded by hearing the study-door slowly open, followed by the tread of
a well-known footstep in the passage. The next sound that reached ~60~~our ears was a quick
shuffling of feet upon the oil-cloth, as if the person advancing had "shyed" at some unexpected
object; then came the muttered exclamation, "Bless my heart, what's this?" And immediately
afterwards Dr. Mildman's face, wearing an expression of the most thorough perplexity and bewilderment,
appeared cautiously peeping from behind the Macintosh. Having apparently satisfied himself
that no enemy was concealed there, and he had nothing further to fear, but that the whole plot
was centred as it were in the mysterious garment before him, he set himself seriously to work
to examine it. First he pulled out his eye-glass and, stepping back a pace or two, took a general
survey of the whole; he then approached it again, and taking hold of it in different places
with his hand, examined it in detail so closely that it seemed as if he were trying to count
the number of threads. Being apparently unwilling in so difficult an investigation to trust
to the evidence of any one sense, he replaced his eye-glass in his waistcoat pocket, and began
rubbing a portion of the skirt between his hands; the sense of touch failing, however, to throw
any new light upon the subject, as a sort of forlorn hope, he applied his nose to it. The result
of this was an indescribable exclamation, expressive of intense disgust, followed immediately
by a violent sneeze; then came a long pause, as though he were considering of what possible
use such a garment could be. At length a ray of light seemed to break in upon the darkness,
and once more laying hands on the Macintosh he proceeded, after unhooking it from the nails
on which it hung, slowly and deliberately to put it on, with the back part foremost, somewhat
after the fashion of a child's pinafore. Having at length accomplished this difficult operation,
he walked, or rather shuffled (for his petticoats interfered greatly with the free use of his
limbs), up and down the hall, with a grave, not to say solemn, expression of countenance. Appearing
perfectly satisfied after one or two turns that he had at last solved the enigma, he divested
himself of the perplexing garment, hung it on a peg appropriated to great-coats, and approached
the door of the pupils' room.

By the time he entered Lawless was seated at his desk studying Herodotus, while Coleman and
I were deeply immersed in our respective Euclids.

After shaking hands with Oaklands, and addressing some good-natured remarks to each of us in
turn, he went up to Lawless, and, laying his hand kindly on his shoulder, said, with a half-smile:--

~61~~"I am afraid I have made rather an absurd mistake about that strange garment of yours,
Lawless; I suppose it is some new kind of greatcoat, is it not?"

"Yes, sir, it is a sort of waterproof cloth, made with Indian rubber."

"Indian rubber, is it? Well, I fancied so; it has not the nicest smell in the world. I certainly
thought it was a smock-frock, though, when I saw you go out in it. Is not it rather awkward
to walk in? I found it so when I tried it on just now, and buttoning behind does not seem to
me at all a good plan."

"No, sir, but it is meant to button in front; perhaps you put it on the back part foremost."

"Hem!" said Dr. Mildman, trying to look as if he thought such a thing impossible, and failing--"it
is a very singular article of dress altogether, but I am glad it was not a smock-frock you
went out in. I hope," continued he, turning to Oaklands, with an evident wish to change the
conversation, "I hope they took good care of you when you arrived last night?"

This was turning the tables with a vengeance! Lawless became suddenly immersed in Herodotus again.

"Oh! the greatest," was the reply; "I had so much attention paid me that I was almost upset
by it. I was not quite overcome, though," he continued, with a sly glance towards Lawless,
"and Mrs. Mildman gave us some very nice tea, which soon restored me."

"Well, I'm glad they managed to make you comfortable among them," observed Dr. Mildman, turning
over his papers and books, preparatory to beginning the morning's study.

"Hadn't you better ask him when he expects the sofa will be down?" suggested Coleman to Oaklands,
in a whisper.

"No, you jackanapes," was the reply, "and don't you make me laugh when that old gentleman is
in the room, for there's nothing more fatiguing than the attempt to smother a laugh."

Coleman's only answer to this, if answer it could be called, was a grimace, which had the desired
effect of throwing Oaklands into a fit of laughter, which he found it very hard labour indeed
to stifle; nor had his countenance quite recovered from the effects of his exertions, when
he was summoned to the Doctor's table to undergo an examination similar to that which had appeared
so formidable to me a few days before; and thus terminated the notable adventure of the carter's
frock, though I ~62~~observed that after a week or two had elapsed the Macintosh was handed
over to Thomas, and Smithson was called upon to tax his inventive powers to furnish Lawless
with a less questionably shaped garment of the same material.

A few days after this, as I was walking with Coleman, he suddenly exclaimed:--

"Well, of all the antediluvian affairs I ever beheld, the old fellow now coming towards us
is the queerest; he looks like a fossil edition of Methuselah, dug up and modernised some hundred
years ago at the very least. Holloa! he's going mad I believe; I hope he does not bite."

The subject of these somewhat uncomplimentary remarks was a little old gentleman in a broad-brimmed
white hat, turned up with green, and a black cloth spencer (an article much like a boy's jacket
exaggerated), from beneath which protruded the very broad tails of a blue coat, with rather
more than their proper complement of bright brass buttons, while drab gaiters and shorts completed
the costume.

The moment, however, I beheld the countenance of the individual in question, I recognised the
never-to-be-mistaken mole at the tip of the nose of my late coach companion to London. The
recognition seemed mutual, for no sooner did he perceive me than he stopped short, and pointed
straight at me with a stout silver-mounted bamboo which he held in his hand, uttering a sonorous
"Umph!" as he did so; to which somewhat unusual mode of salutation may be attributed Coleman's
doubts as to his sanity.

"Who'd ever have thought of meeting you at Helmstone, I should like to know?" exclaimed he
in a tone of astonishment.

"I was going to say the same thing to you, sir," replied I; "I came down here the very day
on which we travelled together."

"Umph! I came the next; well, and what are you doing now you are here? Schoolmaster lives here,
I suppose--tutor, you call him, though, don't you?"

I informed him of my tutor's name and residence, when he continued:--

"Umph! I know him; very good man, too good to be plagued by a set of tiresome boys--men, though,
you call yourselves, don't you? Umph! Is he a man too?" he inquired, pointing to Coleman.

"I've been a man these seventeen years, sir," replied Coleman.

~63~~"Umph, a man seventeen years ago! a baby, more likely: what does he mean? what does he mean?"

I explained that he probably intended a pun upon his name, which was Coleman.

"A pun, Umph? he makes puns, does he? funny boy, funny boy, I daresay. How does the Doctor
like that, though? Make puns to him, he'd punish you, Umph? Stupid things puns--made one myself
then, though--just like me. Well, give the Doctor my compliments--Mr. Frampton's--I live at
No. 10 Castle Street,--he knows me, and ask him to let you come and dine with me next week;
bring funny boy too, if he likes to come;" and away he posted, muttering "Umph! plaguing myself
about a pack of boys, when I might be quiet--just like me!"

We did not fail to deliver Mr. Frampton's message to Dr. Mildman on our return home, who willingly
gave us the required permission, saying that he knew but little of the old gentleman personally,
though he had resided for several years at Helmstone, but that he was universally respected,
in spite of his eccentricities, and was reported to have spent great part of his life abroad.
The next time I met my new friend he repeated his invitation to Coleman and myself, and, on
the day appointed, gave us an excellent dinner, with quite as much wine as we knew what to
do with; amused and interested us with sundry well-told anecdotes of adventures he had met
with during his residence in foreign lands, and dismissed us at nine o'clock with a tip of
a guinea each, and an injunction to come and see him again whenever we pleased.

For many succeeding weeks nothing of any particular moment occurred to interrupt the even tenor
of the new course of life I had entered upon. The liking which Oaklands seemed to have taken
to me at first sight soon ripened into a warm friendship, which continued daily to increase
on my part, as the many noble and lovable qualities of his disposition appeared, one by one,
from behind the veil of indolence which, till one knew him well, effectually concealed them.
Coleman, though too volatile to make a real friend of, was a very agreeable companion, and,
if it were ever possible to get him to be serious for a minute, showed that beneath the frivolity
of his manner lay a basis of clear good sense and right feeling, which only required calling
forth to render him a much higher character than he appeared at present. For the rest, I was
alternately bullied and patronised by Lawless (though he never ventured on the former line
of conduct when Oaklands was present), while Cumberland, outwardly ~64~~professing great regard
for me, never let slip an opportunity of showing me an ill-natured turn, when he could contrive
to do so without committing himself openly.

A more intimate acquaintance with Mullins only served to place beyond a doubt the fact of his
being a most unmitigated, and not over-amiable, fool. The word is a strong one, but I fear
that, if I were to use a milder term, it would be at the expense of truth.

For my tutor I soon began to conceive the warmest feeling of regard and esteem; in fact, it
was impossible to know him well, and not to love him. Simple as a child in everything relating
to worldly matters, he united the deepest learning to the most elevated piety, while the thoroughly
practical character of his religion, carried, as it was, into all the minor details of everyday
life, imparted a gentleness and benignity to his manner which seemed to elevate him above the
level of ordinary mortals. If he had a fault (I suppose, merely for the sake of proving him
human, I must allow him one), it was a want of moral courage, which made it so disagreeable
to him to find fault with any of us, that he would now and then allow evils to exist, which
a little more firmness and decision might have prevented; but, had it not been for this, he
would have been quite perfect, and perfection is a thing not to be met with in this life.

Cumberland, after the eventful evening on which he acted as peacemaker between Lawless and
Oaklands, had persevered steadily in his endeavour to ingratiate himself with the latter; and,
by taking advantage of his weak point, his indolence and dislike of trouble, had, at length,
succeeded in making Oaklands believe him essential to his comfort. Thus, though there was not
the smallest sympathy between them, a sort of alliance was established, which gave Cumberland
exactly the opportunities he required for putting into execution certain schemes which he had
formed. Of what these schemes consisted, and how far they succeeded, will appear in the course
of this veracious history.

The winter months, after favouring us with rather more than our due allowance of frost and
snow, had at length passed away, and March, having come in like a lion, appeared determined,
after the fashion of Bottom the weaver, "to roar that it would do any man's heart good to hear
him," and to kick up a thorough dust ere he would condescend to go out like a lamb, albeit,
in the latter state, he might have made a shilling per pound of himself at any market, had
he felt suicidally inclined.

~65~~"This will never do," said Oaklands to me, as, for the third time, we were obliged to
turn round and cover our eyes, to avoid being blinded by the cloud of dust which a strong east
wind was driving directly in our faces; "there is nothing in the world tires one like walking
against a high wind. A quarter to three," added he, taking out his watch. "I have an appointment
at three o'clock. Will you walk with me? I must turn up here."

I assented; and, turning a corner, we proceeded up a narrow street, where the houses, in a
great measure, protected us from the wind. After walking some little distance in silence Oaklands
again addressed me:--

"Frank, did you ever play at billiards?"

I replied in the negative.

"It's a game I've rather a liking for," continued he; "we have a table at Heathfield, and my
father and I often played when the weather was too bad to get out. I used to beat the old gentleman
easily though at last, till I found out one day he did not half like it, so then I was obliged
to make shocking mistakes, every now and then, to give him a chance of winning; anybody else
would have found me out in a minute, for I am the worst hand in the world at playing the hypocrite,
but my father is the most unsuspicious creature breathing. Oh! he is such a dear old man. You
must come and stay with us, Frank, and learn to know him and love him--he'd delight in you--you
are just the sort of fellow he likes."

"There's nothing I should like better," answered I, "if I can get leave from head-quarters;
but why did you want to know if I played at billiards?"

"Oh, I have been playing a good deal lately with Cumberland, who seems very fond of the game,
and I'm going to meet him at the rooms in F----Street to-day; so I thought, if you knew anything
of the game, you might like to come with me."

"Cumberland is a first-rate player, isn't he?" asked I.

"No, I do not think so: we play very evenly, I should say; but we are to have a regular match
to-day, to decide which is the best player."

"Do you play for money?"

"Just a trifle to give an interest to the game, nothing more," replied Oaklands; "our match
to-day is for a five-pound note."

I must confess that I could not help feeling extremely uneasy at the information Oaklands had
just given me. The recollection of what Coleman had said concerning some gaming affair in which
Cumberland was supposed ~66~~to have behaved dishonourably, combined with a sort of general
notion, which seemed to prevail, that he was not exactly a safe person to have much to do with,
might in some degree account for this; still I always felt a kind of instinctive dislike and
mistrust of Cumberland, which led me to avoid him as much as possible on my own account. In
the present instance, when the danger seemed to threaten my friend, this feeling assumed a
vague character of fear; "and yet," reasoned I with myself, "what is there to dread? Oaklands
has plenty of money at his command; besides, he says they play pretty evenly, so that he must
win nearly as often as Cumberland; then, he is older than I am, and of course must be better
able to judge what is right or wrong for him to do." However, remembering the old adage, that
"lookers-on see most of the game," I determined, for once, to accompany him; I therefore told
him that, though I could not play myself, it would be an amusement to me to watch them, and
that, if he had no objection, I would go with him, to which proposition he willingly agreed.
As we turned into F----Street we were joined by Cumberland, who, as I fancied, did not seem
best pleased at seeing me, nor did the scowl which passed across his brow, on hearing I was
to accompany them, tend to lessen this impression. He did not, however, attempt to make any
opposition to the plan, merely remarking that, as I did not play myself, he thought I should
find it rather dull. After proceeding about half way down the street Cumberland stopped in
front of a small cigar-shop, and, turning towards a private door, on which was a brass plate
with the word "Billiards" engraved on it, knocked, and was admitted. Leading the way up a dark,
narrow staircase, he opened a green baize door at the top, and ushered us into a tolerably
large room, lighted by a sky-light, immediately under which stood the billiard-table. On one
side was placed a rack, containing a formidable arrangement of cues, maces, etc., while at
the farther end two small dials, with a brass hand in the centre for the purpose of marking
the scores of the different players, were fixed against the wall. As we entered, two persons
who were apparently performing certain intricate manoeuvres with the balls by way of practice
immediately left off playing and came towards us. One of these, a little man, with small keen
grey eyes, and a quick restless manner, which involuntarily reminded one of a hungry rat, rejoiced
in the name of "Slipsey," and proved to be the billiard-marker; his ~67~~companion was a tall
stout personage, with a very red face, rather handsome features, large white teeth, and a profusion
of bushy whiskers, moustaches, and imperial of a dark-brown colour. His dress consisted of
a blue military frock coat, which he wore open, to display a crimson plush waistcoat and thick
gold watch-chain, while his costume was completed by a pair of black and white plaid trousers,
made in the extreme of the fashion, with a broad stripe down the outside of the leg. This personage
swaggered up to Cumberland, and, with a manner composed of impertinent familiarity and awkwardness,
addressed him as follows:--

"How d'ye do, Mr. Cumberland? hope I see you well, sir. Terrible bad day, gentlemen, don't
you think? dusty enough to pepper the devil, as we used to say in Spain, hey? Going to have
a touch at the rolley-polleys, I suppose."

"We shall be disturbing you, Captain Spicer," said Cumberland, who, I thought, had tact enough
to perceive that his friend's free and easy manner was the reverse of acceptable to Oaklands.

"Not at all, not at all," was the reply; "it was so terrible unpleasant out of doors that,
as I happened to be going by, I thought I'd look in to see if there was anything up; and as
the table was lying idle I got knocking the balls about with little Slipsey here, just to keep
one's hand in, you know."

"Well, then, we had better begin at once," said Cumberland, to which Oaklands assented rather
coldly.

As he was pulling off his greatcoat he whispered to me, "If that man stays here long, I shall
never be able to stand it: his familiarity is unbearable; there is nothing tires me so much
as being obliged to be civil to that kind of people".

"How is it to be?" said Cumberland, "whoever wins four games out of seven is the conqueror,
wasn't that it?"

"Yes, I believe so," was Oaklands' reply.

"A very sporting match, 'pon my life," observed the Captain; "are the stakes high?"

"Oh no! a mere nothing: five, or ten pounds, did we say?" inquired Cumberland.

"Just as you like," replied Oaklands, carelessly.

"Ten pounds, by all means, I should say; five pounds is so shocking small, don't you think?
not worth playing for?" said the Captain.

"Ten let it be then," said Cumberland; and after a few preliminaries they began playing.

~68~~I did not understand the game sufficiently to be able to give a detailed account of the
various chances of the match, nor would it probably greatly interest the reader were I to do
so. Suffice it, then, to state, that, as far as I could judge, Oaklands, disgusted by the vulgar
impertinence of the Captain (if Captain he was), thought the whole thing a bore, and played
carelessly. The consequence was, that Cumberland won the first two games. This put Oaklands
upon his mettle, and he won the third and fourth; the fifth was hardly contested, Oaklands
evidently playing as well as he was able, Cumberland also taking pains; but it struck me as
singular that, in each game, his play seemed to depend upon that of his adversary. When Oaklands
first began Cumberland certainly beat him, but not by many; and, as he became interested, and
his play improved, so in the same ratio did Cumberland's keep pace with it. Of course, there
might be nothing in this; the same causes that affected the one might influence the other;
but the idea having once occurred to me, I determined to watch the proceedings still more closely,
in order, if possible, to make up my mind on the point. After a very close contest Oaklands
also won the fifth game; in the sixth he missed a difficult stroke, after which he played carelessly,
apparently intending to reserve his strength for the final struggle, so that Cumberland won
it easily. Each had now won three games, and on the event of the seventh depended the match.
Again did Oaklands, who was evidently deeply interested, use his utmost skill, and his play,
which certainly was very good, called forth frequent eulogiums from the Captain, who offered
to bet unheard-of sums on the certainty of his winning (which, as there was no one in the room
at all likely to accept his offer, was a very safe and innocent amusement), and again, pari
passu, did Cumberland's skill keep pace with his. After playing neck and neck, till nearly
the end of the game, Cumberland gained a slight advantage, which produced the following state
of affairs:--It was Oaklands' turn to play, and the balls were placed in such a position, that
by a brilliant stroke he might win the game, but it required great skill to do so. If he failed,
the chances were so much in Cumberland's favour as to render his success almost a certainty.
It was an anxious moment: for my own part, I felt as if I scarcely dared breathe, and could
distinctly hear the throbbing of my own heart, while the Captain, after having most liberally
offered to bet five hundred pounds to five pence that he did it, remained silent and ~69~~motionless
as a statue, watching the proceedings, with his eye-glass screwed after some mysterious fashion
into the corner of his eye. And now, carefully and deliberately, Oaklands pointed his cue--his
elbow was drawn back for the stroke--for the last time his eye appeared to measure and calculate
the precise spot he must strike to produce the desired effect--when suddenly, and at the exact
moment in which the cue struck the ball, a sonorous sneeze from the rat-like billiard-marker
resounded through the room; as a necessary consequence, Oaklands gave a slight start and missed
his stroke. The confusion that ensued can "better be imagined than described," as the newspapers
always say about the return from Epsom. With an exclamation of anger and disappointment Oaklands
turned away from the table, while the Captain began storming at Slipsey, whom he declared himself
ready to kick till all was blue, for the trifling remuneration of half a farthing. The marker
himself apologised, with great contrition, for his delinquency, which he declared was quite
involuntary, at the same time asserting that, to the best of his belief, the gentleman had
made his stroke before he sneezed: this Oaklands denied, and appealed to Cumberland for his
opinion. After trying in various ways to avoid giving a direct answer, and appealing in his
turn to Captain Spicer (who was so intensely positive that the sneeze had preceded the stroke,
that he was willing to back his opinion to any amount), Cumberland very unwillingly owned that,
if he was forced to say what he thought, he believed Oaklands had made his stroke before the
sneeze caused him to start, but that it was a near thing, and he might very possibly be mistaken.
This was quite enough for Oaklands, who declared that he was perfectly satisfied, and begged
Cumberland to play, which, with some apparent reluctance, he did, and, as was almost a matter
of certainty, proved the conqueror.

"'Pon my life, in all my experience, I never knew a gentleman lose a match in such a tremendously
unfortunate way," observed the Captain. "I am certain that if you had not been flurried, Mr.
Oaklands, sir, you could have done the trick as clean as a whistle. Allow me to place the balls
as they were then--I know how they stood to a nicety--there, that's it to a demi-semi fraction;
oblige me, sir, just as a personal favour, by trying the stroke once more."

Thus invoked, Oaklands approached the table, and, without a moment's deliberation, struck the
ball, and succeeded in doing with perfect ease the very thing which a minute before would have
won him ten pounds.

~70~~"There! I was super-certain you could do it; the match was yours, sir, as safe as the
bank, if that wretched little abortion there hadn't made that disgusting noise. Play him again,
sir; play him again: Mr. Cumberland's a pretty player, a very pretty player; but you're too
strong for him, Mr. Oaklands; it's my firm conviction you're too strong for him."

"What do you say to giving me my revenge, Cumberland?" asked Oaklands.

"Oh! I can have no possible objection," replied Cumberland, with the slightest imaginable assumption
of superiority in his tone, which annoyed my ear, and which I felt sure would produce the same
effect upon Oaklands. The next game Oaklands won; and they continued to play the rest of the
afternoon with various success, and for what appeared to me very high stakes. I calculated
that, by the time they left off, Oaklands must have lost more than thirty pounds; and yet,
in spite of this, to a superficial observer he appeared to be the better player of the two:
he certainly made the most brilliant strokes, but he also made blunders, and failed now and
then; while Cumberland's score mounted up without one's exactly knowing how; he never seemed
to be playing particularly well, and yet there was always something easy for him to do; while,
when Oaklands had to play, the balls got into such awkward positions that it appeared as if
they were leagued against him.

Besides this, many things concurred to strengthen me in my pre-conceived idea, that Cumberland
was accommodating his play to that of Oaklands, whom, I felt certain, he could have beaten
easily, if he had been so inclined. If this were really the case, the only conclusion one could
come to was, that the whole thing was a regularly arranged plot: the object of which was to
win as much as he could of Oaklands' money. The marker's sneeze too, occurring so very opportunely
for Cumberland's interest; and the presence of the Captain, who, by his eulogiums on Oaklands'
skill, had excited him to continue playing, while, by his observations and advice, he had endeavoured
(whenever it was possible) to raise the amount of the stakes; all this favoured my view of
the case. Still these were but suspicions; for I was utterly without proof: and could I on
mere suspicion tell Oaklands that he was a dupe, and Cumberland a knave? No, this would never
do; so I determined, as people generally do when they are at their wits' end, and can ~71~~hit
on nothing better, to wait and see what time would bring forth, and act according to circumstances.

Should any of my readers think such penetration unnatural in a boy of my age, brought up in
a quiet country parsonage, let them remember that, though utterly ignorant of the ways of the
world, I was what is called a quick, sharp boy; that I had been informed Cumberland was not
a person to be trusted, nay, that he was known to have cheated some young man before; and that,
moreover, my very unworldliness and ignorance increased my suspicions, inasmuch as it seemed
to me that playing billiards, at a public table, for what I considered large sums of money,
was neither more nor less than gambling; and gambling I viewed in the light of a patent twenty-devil-power
man-trap, fresh baited (in the present case with a billiard cue and balls) by the claws of
the Evil One himself; consequently, I was prepared to view everything that passed with the
greatest mistrust; and, in such a frame of mind, I must have been blind not to have perceived
something of what was going on.

CHAPTER VIII -- GOOD RESOLUTIONS

          "Blest are those
          Whose blood and judgement are so well commingled,
          That they are not a pipe for Fortune's linger
          To sound what stop she please."
          --Hamlet.

          "There's a sweet little cherub that sits up aloft."
          --Naval Song.

AS we were preparing to take our departure I observed the Captain exchange glances with Cumberland,
who turned to Oaklands, saying:--

"Don't wait for me; I have one or two places to call at in my way back, and I shall only make
you late;--when you get home, give Thomas a hint to keep back dinner five minutes or so--old
Mildman won't say anything about it, if he fancies it's the servant's fault."

To this Oaklands replied, "that it was rather a shame, but he'd see what he could do for once";
and, with a very distant bow to the Captain, we left the room. As soon as we were in the street
Oaklands accosted me with:--

"Well, Frank, what do you think of billiards?"

~72~~"Why," replied I, after a moment's thought, "as to the game itself, it's a very pretty
game, and when you can play well, I have no doubt a very interesting one; too much so, perhaps."

"Too interesting! why, that's the beauty of it; almost every other game is a bore, and tires
one, because one does not get sufficiently interested to forget the trouble of it; what can
you mean by too interesting?"

"You won't be angry at what I am going to say, will you?" said I, looking up in his face.

"Angry with you, my dear boy! no fear of that; always say just what you think to me, and, if
it happens to be disagreeable, why it can't be helped; I would rather hear a disagreeable truth
from a friend any day, than have it left for some ill-natured person to bring out, when he
wants to annoy me."

"All I meant to say was this," I replied; "it seems to me that you get so much excited by the
game, that you go on playing longer, and for higher stakes, than you intended to do when you
began,--surely," continued I, "it cannot be right to lose such sums of money merely for amusement;
is it not gambling?"

"I believe you are right, Frank," replied Oaklands, after a short pause, during which he had
apparently been revolving the matter in his mind; "when one comes to think seriously about
it, it is a most unprofitable way of getting rid of one's money; you will scarcely credit it,"
continued he, half-smiling, "but I declare to you I have been playing almost every day for
the last two months."

"So long as that?" interrupted I, aghast.

"There or thereabouts," said Oaklands, laughing at the tone of horror in which I had spoken;
"but I was going to say," he continued, "that till this moment--looking upon it merely as an
amusement, something to keep one from going to sleep over a newspaper in that vile reading-room--I
have never taken the trouble to consider whether there was any right or wrong in the matter.
I am very much obliged to you for the hint, Frank; I'll think it all over to-night, and see
how much I owe Master Cumberland, and I'll tell you to-morrow what conclusion I have come to.
I hate to do anything in a hurry--even to think; one must take time to do that well."

We had now reached home, and, mindful of his promise, Oaklands begged Thomas to use his interest
with the cook, for the purpose of postponing dinner for a few ~73~~minutes, in order to give
Cumberland a chance of being ready--to which Thomas replied:--

"Very well, sir, anything to oblige you, Mr. Oaklands," muttering to himself as he went off,
"wonder what that chap Cumberland is up to now; no good, I'll be bound".

In another minute we heard his voice in the lower regions, exclaiming:--

"I say, cook, mustn't dish up for the next ten minutes; master ain't quite finished his next
Sunday's sermon; he's got hitched just at thirdly and lastly, and mustn't be disturbed; not
on no account";--which produced from that functionary the following pathetic rejoinder:--

"Then, it's hall hup with the pigeon pie, for it will be burnt as black as my blessed shoe
by that time!"

As I was descending the stairs, ready to go out, the next day, Oaklands called me into his
room, and, closing the door, said:--

"Well, Fairlegh, I have thought over all you said yesterday,--made up my mind--and acted upon it".

"Bravo!" replied I, "I am so glad, for, whenever you will but rouse yourself, you are sure
to act more rightly and sensibly than anybody else; but what have you done now? Let me hear
all about it."

"Oh, nothing very wonderful," answered Oaklands; "when I came to look at my pocket-book, I
found I had lost, from first to last, above one hundred and fifty pounds."

"Good gracious!" cried I, aghast at the magnitude of the sum; "what will you do?"

Oaklands smiled at my look of horror, and continued:--

"About one hundred pounds of this I still owe Cumberland, for, after my ready money was gone,
I merely set down on paper all I won or lost, as he said I could pay him at any time, just
as it suited me best; and I thought I would wait till I got my next quarter's allowance, pay
him out of that, and be very economical ever after. Well, when I saw what the sums amounted
to, I found this plan certainly would not answer, and that I was getting into a mess; so I
made up my mind to put an end to the thing at once,--and sat down to write to my father, telling
him I had been playing billiards every day for some time past with a friend,--of course I did
not mention who,--and that, without being at all aware of it, my losses had mounted up till
I owed him one hundred pounds. I mentioned at the same time that I had a pretty long bill at
Smithson's; and then went on to say that I saw the folly, if not worse than folly, of what
I had been doing; and that I applied ~74~~to him, as the best friend I had in the world,--and
I am sure he is too, Frank,--to save me from the consequences of my own imprudence."

"I am very glad you did that; it was much the wisest thing," interrupted I.

"As soon as I had written my letter," continued Oaklands, "I went to Cumberland, and told him
that I found I had been going on over fast,--that I owned he was too good a player for me,--and
that I therefore did not mean to play any more--and would pay him as soon as I received my
father's answer."

"And what did he say to that?" inquired I.

"Why, he seemed surprised and a little annoyed, I fancied. He denied being the best player,
and begged I would not think of paying him yet, saying that I had been unlucky of late, but
that, if I would go on boldly, luck was sure to change, and that I should most likely win it
all back again."

"And you?"

"Oh! I told him that was the true spirit of gambling; that I did not choose to owe so much
to any man as I owed him, and that pay him I would. Well then, he said, that if I did not like
to trouble my father about such a trifle, and yet was determined to pay him, it could be very
easily managed. I asked how? He hummed and ha'd, and at last said that Smithson would advance
me the money in a minute--that I should only have to sign a receipt for it, and need not pay
him for years--not till I was of age, and not then if I did not like--that no one would be
any the wiser--and he was going on with more in the same style, when I stopped him, by answering
very abruptly, that such an arrangement was not to my taste, and that I was not yet reduced
be borrowing money of my tailor."

"Quite right, I am so glad you told him that," interposed I; "what did he say then?"

"Something about not intending to offend me, and its being a thing done every day."

"By him perhaps," said I, recollecting the scene I had witnessed soon after my arrival.

"Why! what do you mean?" said Oaklands.

"I'll tell you when you have done," replied I; "but I want to know how all this ended."

"There was not much more. He tried to persuade me to go again to-day, and play another match.
I told him I was engaged to ride with you. Then he looked as if he was going to be angry. I
waited to see, and he wasn't, and so we parted."

~75~~"And what think you of Cumberland now?" inquired I. "I can't say I altogether like the
way in which he has behaved about this," replied Oaklands; "it certainly looks as if he would
have had no objection to win as much as he could from me, for he must have known all along
that he was the best player. It strikes me that I am well out of the mess, and I have to thank
you for being so too, old fellow."

"Nay, you have to thank your own energy and decision; I did nothing towards helping you out
of your difficulties." "Indeed! if a man is walking over a precipice with his eyes shut, is
it nothing to cause him to open them, in order that he may see the dangers into which the path
he is following will lead him?"

"Ah! Harry, if you would but exert yourself, so as to keep your own eyes open----"

"What a wide-awake fellow you would be!" interposed Coleman, who, after having tapped twice,
without succeeding in making himself heard (so engrossed were we by the conversation in which
we were engaged), had in despair opened the door in time to overhear my last remark. "I say,
gents, as Thomas calls us," continued he, "what have you been doing to Cumberland to put him
into such a charming temper?"

"Is he out of humour then?" inquired Oaklands. "I should say, rather," replied Coleman, winking
ironically; "he came into our room just now, looking as black as thunder, and, as I know he
hates to be spoken to when he is in the sulks, I asked him if you were going to play billiards
with him to-day."

Harry and I exchanged glances, and Coleman continued:--

"He fixed his eyes upon me, and stared as if he would have felt greatly relieved by cutting
my throat, and at last growled out, 'No; that you were going to ride with Fairlegh'; to which
I replied, 'that it was quite delightful to see what great friends you had become'; whereupon
he ground his teeth with rage, and told me 'to go to the devil for a prating fool'; so I answered,
that I was not in want of such an article just at present, and had not time to go so far to-day,
and then I came here instead. Oh, he's in no end of a rage, I know."

"And your remarks would not tend to soothe him much either," said I. "Oaklands has just been
telling him he does not mean to play billiards again."

"Phew!" whistled Coleman, "that was a lucky shot of mine; I fancied it must have been something
about ~76~~Oaklands and billiards that had gone wrong, when I saw how savage it made him. I
like to rile Cumberland sometimes, because he's always so soft and silky; he seems afraid of
getting into a good honest rage, lest he should let out something he does not want one to know.
I hate such extreme caution; it always makes me think there must be something very wrong to
be concealed, when people are so mighty particular."

"You are not quite a fool after all, Freddy," said Oaklands, encouragingly.

"Thank ye for nothing, Harry Longlegs," replied Coleman,--skipping beyond the reach of Oaklands'
arm. A few mornings after this conversation took place Oaklands, who was sitting in the recess
of the window (from which he had ejected Lawless on the memorable evening of his arrival),
called me to him, and asked in a low tone of voice whether I should mind calling at the billiard-rooms
when I went out, and paying a month's subscription which he owed there. He added that he did
not like going himself, for fear of meeting Cumberland or the Captain, as if they pressed him
to play, and he refused (which he certainly should do), something disagreeable might occur,
which it was quite as well to avoid. In this I quite agreed, and willingly undertook the commission.
While we were talking Thomas came into the room with a couple of letters, one of which he gave
to Oaklands, saying, it had just come by the post, while he handed the other to Cumberland,
informing him that the gentleman who brought it was waiting for an answer. I fancied that Cumberland
changed colour slightly when his eye fell upon the writing. After rapidly perusing the note,
he crushed it in his hand, and flung it into the fire, saying:--

"My compliments to the gentleman, and I'll be with him at the time he mentions".

"Well, this is kind of my father," exclaimed Oaklands, looking up with a face beaming with
pleasure; "after writing me the warmest and most affectionate letter possible, he sends me
an order for three hundred pounds upon his banker, telling me always to apply to him when I
want money, or get into difficulties of any kind; and that if I will promise him that this
shall be the case, I need never be afraid of asking for too much, as he should be really annoyed
were I to stint myself."

"What a pattern for fathers!" exclaimed Coleman, rubbing his hands. "I only wish my old dad
would test my obedience in that sort of way;--I'd take care I would ~77~~not annoy him by asking
for too little; he need not fret himself on that account. Ugh!" continued he, with a look of
intense disgust, "it's quite dreadful to think what perverted ideas he has on the subject;
he actually fancies it his business to spend his money as well as to make it; and as for sons,
the less they have the better, lest they should get into extravagant habits, forsooth! I declare
it's quite aggravating to think of the difference between people: a cheque for three hundred
pounds from a father, who'll be annoyed if one does not always apply to him for money enough!
Open the window there! I am getting faint!"

"Don't you think there's a little difference between sons as well as fathers, Master Fred,
eh?" inquired Lawless. "I should say some sons might be safely trusted with three-hundred-pound
cheques; while others are certain to waste two shillings, and misapply sixpence, out of every
half-crown they may get hold of."

"Sir, I scorn your insinuations; sir, you're no gentleman," was the reply, producing (as was
probably intended) an attack from Lawless, which Coleman avoided for some time by dodging round
chairs and under tables. After the chase had lasted for several minutes Coleman, when on the
point of being captured, contrived, by a master-stroke of policy, to substitute Mullins in
his place, and the affair ended by that worthy being knocked down by Lawless, "for always choosing
to interfere with everything," and being kicked up again by Coleman, "for having prevented
him from properly vindicating his wounded honour".

"Who's going near the Post-office, and will put a letter in for me?" asked Oaklands.

"I am," replied Cumberland; "I've got one of my own to put in also."

"Don't forget it or lose it, for it's rather important," added Oaklands; "but I need not caution
you, you are not one of the harebrained sort; if it had been my friend Freddy, now----"

"I'll tell you what it is, Mr. Oaklands," said Coleman, putting on an air of offended dignity,
in which, though very much exaggerated, there was at the bottom the smallest possible spice
of reality--a thing, by the way, one may often observe in people who have a very strong appreciation
of the ridiculous, and who, however fond they may be of doing absurd things for the sake of
being laughed at, do not approve of their buffooneries being taken for granted--"I'll tell
you what it is, sir--you have ~78~~formed a most mistaken estimate of my character; I beg to
say that any affair I undertake is certain to be conducted in a very sedate and business-like
manner. My prudence I consider unimpeachable; and as to steadiness, I flatter myself I go considerably
ahead of the Archbishop of Canterbury in that article. If I hear you repeat such offensive
remarks, I shall be under the painful necessity of elongating your already sufficiently prolonged
proboscis."

"Come and try," said Oaklands, folding his arms with an air of defiance. Coleman, reckoning
on his adversary's dislike of exertion, and trusting to his own extreme quickness and activity
to effect his escape scot-free, made a feint of turning away as if to avoid the contest, and
then, with a sudden spring, leaped upon Oaklands, and succeeded in just touching his nose.
The latter was, however, upon his guard, and while, by seizing his outstretched arm with one
hand, he prevented him from attaining his object, he caught him by the coat-collar with the
other, and detained him prisoner.

"I've got you this time, at all events, Master Freddy; now what shall I do with you, to pay
you off for all your impertinence?" said Oaklands, looking round the room in search of something
suitable to his purpose. "I have it," continued he, as his eyes encountered the bookcase, which
was a large square-topped, old-fashioned affair, standing about eight feet high, and the upper
part forming a sort of glass-fronted closet, in which the books were arranged on shelves. "Great
men like you, who go ahead of archbishops and so on, should be seated in high places." So saying
he lifted Coleman in his arms, with as much ease as if he had been a kitten; and, stepping
up on a chair which stood near, seated him on the top of the bookcase, with his head touching
the ceiling, and his feet dangling about six feet from the ground.

"What a horrid shame!" said Coleman; "come help me down again, Harry, there's a good fellow."

"I help you down!" rejoined Oaklands, "I've had trouble enough in putting you up, I think;
I'm a great deal too much tired to help you down again."

"Well, if you won't, there's nobody else can," said Coleman, "unless they get a ladder, or
a fire-escape--don't call me proud, gentlemen, if I look down upon you all, for I assure you
it's quite involuntary on my part."

"A decided case of 'up aloft': he looks quite the cherub, does he not?" said Lawless.

~79~~"They are making game of you, Coleman," cried Mullins, grinning.

"I hope not," was the reply, "for in that case I should be much too high to be pleasant."

"They ought to keep you there for an hour longer for that vile pun," said Cumberland. "Is your
letter ready, Oaklands, for I must be going?"

"It is upstairs, I'll fetch it," replied Oaklands, leaving the room.

"Well, as it seems I am here for life, I may as well make myself comfortable," said Coleman,
and, suiting the action to the word, he crossed his legs under him like a tailor, and folding
his arms leaned his back against the wall, the picture of ease.

At this moment there was a gentle tap at the door; some one said "Come in," and, without a
word of preparation, Dr. Mildman entered the apartment. Our surprise and consternation at this
apparition may easily be imagined. Cumberland and Lawless tried to carry it off by assuming
an easy unembarrassed air, as if nothing particular was going on; I felt strongly disposed
to laugh; while Mullins looked much more inclined to cry; but the expression of Coleman's face,
affording a regular series of "dissolving views" of varied emotions, was the "gem" of the whole
affair. The unconscious cause of all this excitement, whose back was turned towards the bookcase,
walked quietly up to his usual seat, saying, as he did so:--

"Don't let me disturb you--I only came to look for my eye-glass, which I think I must have
dropped".

"I see it, sir," said I, springing forward and picking it up; "how lucky none of us happened
to tread on it and break it!"

"Thank you, Fairlegh, it is an old friend, and I should have been sorry to have any harm happen
to it," replied he, as he turned to leave the room, without having once raised his eyes from
the ground. Coleman, who up to this moment had considered a discovery inevitable, gave me a
sign to open the door, and, believing the danger over, was proceeding to relieve his feelings
by making a hideous face at his retiring tutor, when the bookcase, affected no doubt by the
additional weight placed upon it, suddenly gave a loud crack.

"Bless my heart," said Dr. Mildman, looking up in alarm, "what's that? Gracious me!" continued
he, starting back as his eyes encountered Coleman, "there's something alive up there! why it's--eh?"
continued he, levelling his newly restored eye-glass at the object of his ~80~~alarm; "yes,
it certainly is Coleman; pray, sir, is it usually your 'custom of an afternoon,' as Shakspeare
has it, to sit perched up there cross-legged, like a Chinese mandarin? It's a very singular taste."

"Why, sir," replied Coleman, for once completely taken aback, "you see I didn't--that is, I
wasn't--I mean, if I hadn't--I shouldn't."

"Hum," resumed Dr. Mildman, with whom he was rather a favourite, and who, now that he had satisfied
himself it was not some wild animal he had to deal with, was evidently amused by Coleman's
embarrassment, "that sentence of yours is not particularly clear or explanatory; but," continued
he, as a new idea occurred to him, "how in the world did you get up there? you must have flown."

"I didn't get up, I was--that is, he----" stammered

Coleman, remembering just in time that he could not explain without involving Oaklands.

"And how are you ever to get down again?" said Dr. Mildman.

"Has the pretty bird flown yet?" cried Oaklands, hastily entering the room; when, observing
the addition the party had received during his absence, he started back, murmuring in an under
tone, "The old gentleman, by Jove!" Quickly recovering himself, however, he sprang upon a chair,
and, seizing Coleman in his arms, whisked him down with more haste than ceremony; and going
up to Dr. Mildman said respectfully, "That was a bit of folly of mine, sir; I put him up there;
I merely did it for a joke, and I hadn't an idea you would come in and find him".

"Never mind," replied Dr. Mildman, good-naturedly, "as you have contrived to get him down again
safely there is no harm done;" adding as he left the room, "that young man is as strong as
Hercules. I hope he'll never take it into his head to pop me up anywhere, for I am sure he
could do it if he chose."

CHAPTER IX -- A DENOUEMENT

~81~~

          "Play not for gain but sport; who plays for more
          Than he can lose with pleasure, stakes his heart."
          --Herbert.

          "If you are so bold as to venture a blowing-up, look closely
          to it! for the plot lies deadly deep... but of all things have
          a care of putting it in your pocket,... and if you can shun
          it, read it not;... consider well what you do, and look
          to yourself,... for there is danger and jeopardy in it."--
          --Dr. Eachard.

IN the course of my walk that afternoon I called at the billiard-rooms in F---- Street, in
order to pay Oaklands' subscription. On inquiring for Mr. Johnson, the proprietor, I was told
that he was engaged at present, but that if I did not mind waiting for a few minutes, he would
be able to attend to me. To this I agreed, and was shown into a small room downstairs, which,
from its sanded floor, and a strong odour of stale tobacco which pervaded it, was apparently
used as a smoking-room. It opened into what seemed to be a rather spacious apartment from which
it was divided by a glass half-door, across the lower panes of which hung a green blind: this
door, on my entrance, was standing slightly ajar. The day being cold, there was a bright fire
burning on the hearth; near this I seated myself, and, seduced by its drowsy influence, fell
into a kind of trance, in which, between sleeping and waking, my mind wandered away to a far
different scene, among well-known forms and familiar faces that had been strangers to me now
for many a long day. From this day-dream I was aroused by sounds, which, proceeding from the
adjoining apartment, resolved themselves, as I became more thoroughly awake, into the voices
of two persons apparently engaged in angry colloquy.

"I tell you," said a gruff voice, which somehow seemed familiar to me--"I tell you it is the
only chance for you; you must contrive to bring him here again, and that without loss of time."

"Must I again repeat that the thing is impossible?" was the reply, in tones I knew but too
well; "utterly impossible; when once his mind is made up, and he takes the trouble to exert
himself, he is immovable; nothing can shake his determination."

"And is this your boasted skill and management?" ~82~~rejoined the first speaker; "how comes
it, pray, that this overgrown child, who seemed the other day to be held as nicely in leading-strings
as need be--this raw boy, whose hot-headedness, simplicity, and indolence rendered him as easy
a pigeon to pluck as one could desire; how comes it, I say, that he has taken alarm in this
sudden manner, so as to refuse to come here any more? you've bungled this matter most shamefully,
sir, and must take the consequences."

"That's just the point I cannot make out," replied the second speaker, who, as the reader has
probably discovered, was none other than Cumberland; "it's easy enough for you to lay it all
to my mismanagement, Captain Spicer, but I tell you it is no such thing; did I not accommodate
my play to his, always appearing to win by some accident, so that the fool actually believed
himself the better player, while he was losing from twenty to thirty pounds a day? Didn't I
excite him, and lead him on by a mixture of flattery and defiance, so that he often fancied
he was persuading me to play against my will, and was so ready to bet that I might have won
three times what I have of him, if you had not advised me to go on quietly, and by degrees?
Did not you refuse when I wished you to take him in hand yourself, because you said I understood
him best, and managed him admirably? No, I believe that detestable young Fairlegh is at the
bottom of it: I observed him watching me with that calm, steadfast glance of his, that I hated
him for from the first moment I saw him; I felt certain some mischief would arise from it."

"Yes!" replied Spicer, "that was your fault too: why did you let the other bring him; every
fool knows that lookers-on see most of the game."

"I was afraid to say much against it, lest Oaklands should suspect anything," rejoined Cumberland;
"but I wish to Heaven I had now; I might have been sure no good would come from it--that boy
is my evil genius."

"I have no time for talking about geniuses, and such confounded stuff," observed Spicer, angrily,
"so now to business, Mr. Cumberland: you are aware you owe me two hundred pounds, I presume?"

Cumberland grumbled out an unwilling assent, to which he appended a muttered remark not exactly
calculated to enhance the Captain's future comfort.

"Like a good-natured fool," continued Spicer, "I agreed to wait for my money till you had done
what you could with this Oaklands."

"For which forbearance you were to receive fifty ~83~~pounds extra, besides anything you could
make out of him by private bets," put in Cumberland.

"Of course I was not going to wait all that time for my money for nothing," was the reply;
"you have only as yet paid me fifty pounds, you tell me you can't persuade Oaklands to play
again, so there's nothing more to be got from that quarter, consequently nothing more to wait
for. I must trouble you, therefore, to pay me the two hundred pounds at once; for, to be plain
with you, it won't do for me to remain here any longer--the air does not agree with my constitution."

"And where on earth am I to get two hundred pounds at a minute's notice?" said Cumberland;
"you are as well aware the thing is impossible as I am."

"I am aware of this, sir," replied the Captain with an oath, "that I'll have my money; ay,
and this very day too, or I'll expose you--curse me if I don't. I know your uncle's address:
yes! you may well turn pale, and gnaw your lip--other people can plot and scheme as well as
yourself: if I'm not paid before I leave this place, and that will be by to-night's mail, your
uncle shall be told that his nephew is an insolvent gambler; and the old tutor, the Rev. Dr.
Mildman, shall have a hint that his head pupil is little better than a blackleg."

"Now listen to me, Spicer," said Cumberland quietly; "I know you might do what you have threatened,
and that to me it would be neither more nor less than ruin, but--and this is the real question--pray
what possible advantage (save calling people's attention to the share, a pretty large one,
you have had in making me what I am) would it be to you?"

"To me, sir? eh! why, what do you mean, sir? your uncle is a man of honour, and, of course,
as such would pay his nephew's debts for him, more particularly when he knows that if he refuses
to do so that nephew will be sent to jail; yes, to jail, sir."

"There; blustering is of no use with me, so you may save yourself that trouble, Captain," replied
Cumberland; "as to sending me to jail, that is absurd; you can't arrest a minor for debt, and
I shall not be of age these two years. My uncle is, as you say, what is called a man of honour,
but he is not one of those over-scrupulous fools who will pay any demand, however dishonest
and unreasonable, rather than tarnish the family honour, forsooth! No! he will pay what the
law compels him, and not a farthing more I leave you to decide whether the law is likely to
be of much use to you in the present ~84~~case. Now, listen to me; though you cannot obtain
the money by the means you proposed, you can, as I said before, do me serious injury; therefore,
if for no other reason but to stop your mouth, I would pay you the whole if I could, but I
have not the power of doing so at present. What I propose then is this--Oaklands will pay me,
in a day or two, one hundred pounds; this I will hand over to you at once, and will give you
a written promise to pay you the rest in the course of the next six months; for before that
time I must raise money somehow, even if I have to sell every farthing I expect to come into
to the Jews, in order to do it."

"Won't do," was the reply; "the ready isn't enough; I must leave this country in a day or two,
and I must have money to take with me; come, one hundred and fifty pounds down, and I'll let
you off the other fifty."

"It's impossible, I can get no other money yet, excepting the sum Oaklands is to pay me."

"Yes! and how the devil am I to be sure he will pay you directly; I'm pretty certain the fool's
hard up himself; he hasn't paid cash for a month past."

"If that's all you're afraid of, I can soon convince you to the contrary; here's a letter to
his father's banker, which I am going to put into the post directly, with a cheque for three
hundred pounds in it; there, hold it up to the light, and you can see the figures yourself."

"By Jove! so it is," exclaimed Spicer: "I say, Cumberland," he continued, and then the voices
almost sunk into a whisper, so that I could not catch more than a word here and there, but
by the tone I judged that the Captain was making some proposition, to which Cumberland refused
to agree.

At length I heard the former say, "Fifty pounds down, and a receipt in full ".

Cumberland's reply was inaudible, but when the Captain spoke again I caught the following words:
"Not the slightest risk, only you do as I say, and----"

At this moment the outer door of the room in which I was sitting opened, while the one communicating
with the other apartment was violently slammed to from the farther side, and I heard no more.

The newcomer was a little slipshod girl in dirty curlpapers, who informed me that her master
was sorry he could not see me that day as he was particularly engaged, but if I would do him
the favour of calling to-morrow, at the same hour, he should be at leisure, etc. To this I
answered something, I scarcely knew what, and, seizing ~85~~my hat, rushed out at the front
door, to the great astonishment of the curl-papered damsel, who cast an anxious glance at the
pegs in the hall, ere she could convince herself that I had not departed with more hats and
coats than legitimately belonged to me.

It was not until I had proceeded the length of two or three streets, that I could collect my
ideas sufficiently to form anything like a just estimate of the extraordinary disclosures with
which I had so unexpectedly become acquainted, and no sooner had I in some measure succeeded
in so doing, than the puzzling question presented itself to me, what line of conduct it would
be advisable to adopt, in consequence of what I had heard. I asked myself too, to begin with,
what right I had to make any use of a private conversation, which accident alone had caused
me to overhear? Would not people say I had behaved dishonourably in having listened to it at
all? But then again, by preserving Cumberland's secret, and concealing his real character from
Oaklands, should not I, as it were, become a party to any nefarious schemes he might contemplate
for the future? Having failed in one instance in his attempt on Oaklands' purse, would he not
(having, as I was now fully aware, such a strong necessity for money) devise some fresh plan,
which might succeed in its object, were Oaklands still ignorant of the real character of the
person he had to deal with? And in such case should not I be answerable for any mischief which
might ensue? Nay, for aught I knew, some fresh villainy might be afloat even now; what plan
could Spicer have been urging, which Cumberland seemed unwilling to adopt, if not something
of this nature, and which might be prevented were Oaklands made aware of all the circumstances?

This last idea settled the business. I determined to reveal everything to Oaklands in confidence,
and to be guided in my subsequent conduct by his opinion. Having once arrived at this conclusion,
the next thing was to carry my intentions into effect with as little loss of time as possible.
I consequently started off at speed in a homeward direction, and succeeded in reaching my destination
in rather less than ten minutes, having, at various times in the course of my route, run against
and knocked over no less than six little children, to the manifest discomposure and indignation
of as many nursery-maids, who evidently regarded me as a commissioned agent of some modern
Herod, performing my master's work zealously.

~86~~On arriving at home my impatience was doomed to be disappointed, for Oaklands, who had
gone out soon after I did, was not yet returned. This delay, in the feverish state of anxiety
and excitement in which I was, appeared to me intolerable; and, unable to sit still, I kept
striding up and down the room, clenching my fists, and uttering exclamations of impatience
and vexation; which unusual conduct on my part so astonished and alarmed the worthy Thomas
that, after remaining in the room till he had exhausted every conceivable pretext for so doing,
he boldly inquired whether "I did not feel myself ill, no how?" adding his hope, that "I had
not been a-exhaling laughing gas, or any sich rumbustical wegitable?" after which he favoured
me with an anecdote of "a young man as he know'd, as had done so, wot conducted hisself more
like a hideotic fool than a sanatory Christian, ever after". Perceiving at length that his
attentions were rapidly reducing me to the same state of mind as that of his friend, he very
considerately left me.

After half an hour of anxious expectation, in the course of which I must have walked at least
a mile or two over Dr. Mildman's parlour carpet, Oaklands and Lawless returned together. I
instantly called the former aside, and told him I wished to speak to him alone, as I had something
of importance to communicate. To this he replied that it was very near dinner-time; but that,
if I would come up to his room, I could talk to him while he dressed. As soon as we were safely
closeted together I began my relation, but scarcely had I got beyond "You asked me to go to
the billiard-rooms, you know "--when a hasty footstep was heard upon the stairs; some one knocked
at the door, and immediately a voice, which I knew to be that of Cumberland, asked to be let
in, "as he had something particular to say".

"The plot thickens," said Oaklands, as, without rising from his seat, he stretched out an immense
length of arm, and opened the door.

"Hear what I have to say first," cried I; but it was too late, and Cumberland entered, breathless,
and with his usually sallow complexion flushed with exercise and excitement.

"The most unfortunate thing"--he began; and stopping to draw breath, he added, "I have run
all the way from the post-office, as hard as my legs would carry me--but I was going to tell
you--as I went down, I met Curtis of the --th, who told me their band was going to play in
Park Square, and asked me to go with him to hear it; and I'm ~87~~afraid that, as I stood in
the crowd, my pocket must have been picked, for when I got to the post-office I found that
my letter, my pocket handkerchief, and I am sorry to say your letter also, had disappeared--so,
remembering you had told me your letter was of importance, I thought the best thing I could
do was to come home as fast as I could, and tell you."

"By Jove," exclaimed Oaklands, "that's rather a bore though; there was my father's cheque for
three hundred pounds in it; I suppose something ought to be done about it directly."

"Write a note to stop the payment; and--let me see--as it is too late for the post now, if
you will make a parcel of it, I'll run down and give it to the guard of the mail, begging him
to deliver it himself as soon as he gets to town--the cheque can't be presented till to-morrow
morning, so that will be all right."

"What a head you have for business, to be sure!" said Oaklands; "but why should you have the
trouble of taking it? I dare say Thomas will go with it when we have done dinner, or I can
take it myself."

"Nay," replied Cumberland, "as I have contrived to lose your letter, the least I can do is
to take the parcel; besides, I should like to speak to the guard myself, so as to be sure there's
no mistake."

While this was going on it may be imagined that my thoughts were not idle. When Cumberland
mentioned the loss of the letter my suspicions that some nefarious scheme might be on foot
began for the first time to resolve themselves into a tangible form, but when I perceived his
anxiety to have the parcel entrusted to him, which was to prevent the payment of the cheque,
the whole scheme, or something nearly approaching to it, flashed across me at once, and, without
reflecting for a moment on what might be the consequences of doing so, I said:--

"If Oaklands will take my advice, he will not entrust you with anything else, till you can
prove that you have really lost the letter, as you say you have done".

Had a thunderbolt fallen in the midst of us, it could scarcely have produced greater confusion
than did this speech of mine. Oaklands sprang upon his feet, regarding me with the greatest
surprise as he asked "if I knew what I was saying?" while Cumberland, in a voice hoarse from
passion, inquired, "What the devil I meant by my insolence? what did I dare to insinuate he
had done with the letter, if he had not lost it?"

~88~~"I insinuate nothing," was my reply; "but I tell you plainly that I believe, and have
good reason for believing, that you have not lost the letter, but given it to your gambling
friend and accomplice, Captain Spicer, who, in return for it, is to give you a receipt in full
for the two hundred pounds you owe him, and fifty pounds down." On hearing this Cumberland
turned as pale as ashes, and leaned on the back of a chair for support, while I continued,
"You look surprised, Oaklands, as well you may; but when you hear what I have to tell, you
will see that I do not make this accusation without having good grounds to go upon ".

"I shall not stay here," said Cumberland, making an effort to recover himself, and turning
towards the door, "I shall not remain here to be any further insulted; I wish you good-evening,
Mr. Oaklands."

"Not so fast," said Oaklands, springing to the door, and locking it; "if all this be true,
and Fairlegh would not have said so much unless he had strong facts to produce, you and I shall
have an account to settle together, Mr. Cumberland; you will not leave this room till I know
the rights of the affair. Now, Frank, let us hear how you learned all this."

"Strangely enough," replied I; and I then gave him an exact account of all that had passed
at the billiard-rooms, repeating the conversation, word for word, as nearly as I could remember
it, leaving Oaklands to draw his own inferences therefrom. During the whole of my recital Cumberland
sat with his elbows resting on the table, and his face buried in his hands, without offering
the slightest interruption, scarcely indeed appearing aware of what was going on, save once,
when I mentioned the fact of the door between the two rooms being slightly open, when he muttered
something about "what cursed folly!" When I had finished my account Oaklands turned towards
Cumberland, and asked in a stern voice "what he had to say to this statement?" Receiving no
answer, he continued: But it is useless, sir, to ask you: the truth of what Fairlegh has said
is self-evident--the next question is, What is to be done about it?" He paused for a moment
as if in thought, and then resumed: "In the position in which I now stand, forming one of Dr.
Mildman's household, and placed by my father under his control, I scarcely consider myself
a free agent. It seems to me, therefore, that my course is clear; it is evidently my duty to
inform him of the whole affair, and afterwards to act as he may advise, Do you agree with me,
Frank?"

~89~~"It is exactly what I should have proposed, had you not mentioned it first," was my answer.

"For God's sake, Oaklands, don't," exclaimed Cumberland, raising himself suddenly; "he will
write to my uncle--I shall be expelled--my character lost--it will be utter ruin;--have pity
upon me--I will get you back your money, I will indeed, only don't tell Mildman."

"I have treated you up to the present time as a gentleman and a friend," replied Oaklands;
"you have proved yourself unworthy of either title, and deserve nothing at my hands but the
strictest justice; no one could blame me were I to allow the law to take its course with you,
as with any other swindler, but this I shall be most unwilling to do; nothing short of Dr.
Mildman's declaring it to be my positive duty will prevail upon me. But our tutor ought to
be informed of it, and shall: he is a good, kind-hearted man, and if his judgment should err
at all, you may feel sure it will be on the side of mercy. Fairlegh, will you go down and ask
Dr. Mildman if I can speak to him on a matter of importance, now, at once? you will find him
in his study. Let me know when he is ready, and we will come down; for," added he, turning
to Cumberland, "I do not lose sight of you till this business is settled one way or other."

When I had told my errand Dr. Mildman, who looked a good deal surprised and a little frightened,
desired me (on receiving my assurance that the business would not do as well after dinner)
to tell Oaklands to come to him immediately. To this Oaklands replied by desiring me to hold
myself in readiness for a summons, as he should want me presently. Then, linking his arm within
that of Cumberland, he half-led, half-forced, him out of the room. In another minute I heard
the study-door close behind them.

"Now, Fairlegh," said Dr. Mildman, when, in about a quarter of an hour's time, I had been sent
for, "I wish you to repeat to me the conversation you overheard at the billiard-room, as nearly
word for word as you can remember it."

This I hastened to do; the Doctor listening with the most profound attention, and asking one
or two questions on any point which did not at first appear quite clear to him. When I had
concluded he resumed his inquiries by asking whether I had seen the parties who were speaking.
To this I answered in the negative.

"But you imagined you recognised the voices?"

"Yes, sir."

"Whose did you take them to be?"

~90~~"One I believed to be Cumberland's, the other that of a Captain Spicer, whom I had seen
when I was there before."

"How often have you been there?"

"Twice, sir; once about a week ago, and again to-day."

"And have you the slightest moral doubt as to the fact of the persons you heard speaking being
Cumberland and this Captain Spicer?"

"Not the slightest; I feel quite certain of it."

"That is all clear and straightforward enough," observed Dr. Mildman, turning to the culprit.
"I am afraid the case is only too fully proved against you; have you anything to say which
can at all establish your innocence?"

"It would be of no use if I were to do so," said Cumberland, in a sullen manner; "it is all
a matter of assertion; you choose to believe what they say, and if I were to deny it, you would
not believe me without proof, and how can I prove a negative?"

"But do you deny it?" inquired Dr. Mildman, regarding him with a clear, scrutinising look.
Cumberland attempted to speak, but, meeting Dr. Mildman's eye, was unable to get out a word,
and turned away, concealing his face in his handkerchief.

"This is a sad piece of business," said Dr. Mildman; "I suppose you mean to prosecute, Oaklands?"

"I shall be most unwilling to do so," was the reply; "nor will I, sir, unless you consider
it my positive duty; I would rather lose the money ten times over than bring such a disgrace
upon Cumberland."

"You are a kind-hearted fellow," replied the Doctor; "it really is a very difficult case in
which to know how to act. As a general principle, I am most averse to anything like hushing
up evil."

"For Heaven's sake have pity upon me, Dr. Mildman," cried Cumberland, throwing himself on his
knees before him; "I confess it all. I did allow Spicer to keep the cheque; he threatened to
expose me, and I did it to escape detection; but promise you will not prosecute me, and I will
tell you where he may be found, so that something may be done about it yet. I will pay anything
you please. I shall come into money when I am of age, and I can make some arrangement. I don't
care what I sacrifice, if I have to dig to earn my bread, only do not disgrace me publicly.
Remember, I am very young, and oh! if you knew what it is to be tempted as I have been! Oaklands,
Fairlegh, intercede for me; think how you ~91~~should feel, either of you, if you were placed
in my situation!"

"Get up, Mr. Cumberland," observed Dr. Mildman, in a grave, impressive manner; "it is equally
needless and unbecoming to kneel to man for forgiveness--learn to consider that position as
a thing set apart and sacred to the service of One greater than the sons of men--One, whom
you have indeed grievously offended, and to whom, in the solitude of your chamber, you will
do well to kneel, and pray that He who died to save sinners may, in the fulness of His mercy,
pardon you also." He paused, and then resumed: "We must decide what steps had better be taken
to recover your cheque, Oaklands; it is true we can send and stop the payment of it--but if
you determine not to prosecute, for Cumberland's sake, you must let off this man Spicer also,
in which case it would be advisable to prevent his presenting the cheque at all, as that might
lead to inquiries which it would be difficult to evade. You said just now you knew where this
bad man was to be found, Mr. Cumberland."

"Yes, sir, if he is not at the billiard-rooms in F---- Street, his lodgings are at No. 14,
Richmond Buildings," said Cumberland.

"Ay, exactly," replied Dr. Mildman; and, resting his head upon his hand, he remained for some
minutes buried in thought. Having at length apparently made up his mind, he turned to Cumberland,
and said: "Considering all the circumstances of the case, Mr. Cumberland, although I most strongly
reprobate your conduct, which has grieved and surprised me more than I can express, I am unwilling
to urge Oaklands to put the law in force against you, for more reasons than one. In the first
place, I wish to spare your uncle the pain which such an exposure must occasion him; and secondly,
I cannot but hope that at your age, so severe a lesson as this may work a permanent change
in you, and that at some future period you may regain that standing among honourable men, which
you have now so justly forfeited, and I am anxious that this should not be prevented by the
stigma which a public examination must attach to your name for ever. I will therefore at once
go with you to the abode of this man Spicer, calling on my way at the house of a legal friend
of mine, whom I shall try to get to accompany us. I presume we shall have no great difficulty
in procuring restitution of the stolen letter, when the culprit perceives that his schemes
are found out, and that it is consequently valueless to him. Having succeeded in this, we shall
~92~~endeavour to come to some equitable arrangement in regard to his claims on you--do you
agree to this?" Cumberland bowed his head in token of assent, and Dr. Mildman continued:--

"And you, Oaklands, do you approve of this plan?" "It is like yourself, Doctor, the perfection
of justice and kindness," replied Oaklands, warmly.

"That is well," resumed Dr. Mildman; "I have one more painful duty to perform, which may as
well be done at once--you are aware, Mr. Cumberland, that I must expel you?"

"Will you not look over my fault this once?" entreated Cumberland; "believe me, I will never
give you cause for complaint again."

"No, sir," was the reply; "in justice to your companions I cannot longer allow you to remain
under the same roof with them: it is my duty to see that they associate only with persons fitted
for the society of gentlemen, amongst whom, I am sorry to say, I can no longer class you. I
shall myself accompany you to town to-morrow, and, if possible, see your uncle, to inform him
of this unhappy affair. And now, sir, prepare to go with me to this Captain Spicer;--on our
return you will oblige me by remaining in your room during the evening. Oaklands, will you
ask Lawless to take my place at the dinner-table, and inform your companions that Cumberland
has been engaged in an affair, of which I so strongly disapprove, that I have determined on
expelling him, but that you are not at liberty to disclose the particulars? I need scarcely
repeat this caution to you, Fairlegh; you have shown so much good sense and right feeling throughout
the whole business that I am certain you will respect my wishes on this head."

I murmured some words in assent, and so ended one of the most painful and distressing scenes
it has ever been my fate to witness.

          "Shall I not take mine ease in mine inn?"
          --Henry IV.

THE dinner passed off heavily; every attempt to keep up a continued conversation failed entirely;
and a general feeling of relief was experienced when the time arrived for us to retire to the
pupils' room. Even here, however, the state of things was not much better. Lawless and the
others having in vain attempted to learn more of the affair from Oaklands and myself than we
felt at liberty to tell them, lounged over a book, or dozed by the fire; whilst we, unable
to converse on the subject which alone engrossed our thoughts, and disinclined to do so upon
any other, were fain to follow their example. About half-past eight Dr. Mildman and Cumberland
returned, and, after dinner, which was served to them in the Doctor's study, Cumberland retired
to his room, where he remained during the rest of the evening. Oaklands then received a summons
from the Doctor, and, on his return, informed us that (as we had already heard) Cumberland
was to be expelled. He added that Dr. Mildman intended to take him to town himself the next
morning, as he was anxious to see Cumberland's uncle, who was also his guardian: he would probably,
therefore, not return till the following day, in consequence of which we should have a whole
holiday, and he trusted to us to spend it in a proper manner, which, as Coleman remarked, proved
that he was of a very confiding disposition indeed, and no mistake.

When we went up to bed Oaklands beckoned me into his room, and, as soon as he had closed the
door, gave me an account (having obtained Dr. Mildman's permission to do so) of the interview
with Spicer. They found him, it seemed, at his lodgings, preparing for his departure. At first
he took a very high tone, denied the whole thing, and was extremely blustering and impertinent;
but on being confronted with Cumberland, and ~94~~threatened by Dr. Mildman's legal friend
with the terrors of the law, he became thoroughly crestfallen, restored the three-hundred-pound
cheque, and consented, on the payment of fifty pounds, in addition to the fifty pounds he had
already received, to give up all claims upon Cumberland, whereupon they paid him the money
down, made him sign a paper to the above effect, and left him.

"And so, my dear Frank," said Oaklands, "there is an end of that affair, and, if it only produces
as much effect upon Cumberland as it has produced upon me, it will read him a lesson he will
not forget for many a long day. I blame myself excessively," he continued, "for my own share
in this matter; if it had not been for my easy, careless way of going on, this scheme would
never have been thought of--nay, I might, perhaps, have been able to rescue Cumberland from
the hands of this sharper; but in this manner we neglect the opportunities afforded us of doing
good, and--Frank," he continued, with a sudden burst of energy, "I will cure myself of this
abominable indolence." He paused for some minutes in thought, and then added, "Well, I must
not stand here raving at you any longer; it is getting very late: goodnight, old fellow! I
shall be glad enough to tumble into bed, for I'm as tired as a dog: it really is astonishing
how easily I am knocked up."

The absurdity of this remark, following upon the resolution he had expressed with so much energy
but a minute before, struck us both at the same instant, and occasioned a fit of laughter,
which we did not check till we recollected with what dissonance any approach to mirth must
strike the ear of the prisoner (for such he was in fact, if not in name) in the adjoining apartment.

"Now, sir; come, Mr. Fairlegh, you'll be late for breakfast," were the first sounds that reached
my understanding on the following morning: I say understanding, as I had heard, mixed up with
my dreams, sundry noises produced by unclosing shutters, arranging water-jugs, etc., which
appeared to my sleep-bewildered senses to have been going on for at least half an hour. My
faculties not being sufficiently aroused to enable me to speak, Thomas continued, "You'll be
late, Mr. Fairlegh"; then came an aside, "My wig, how he do sleep! I hope he ain't been a-taking
lauddelum, or morpheus, or anything of a somnambulous natur. I wouldn't be master, always to
have six boys a weighing on my mind, for all the wealth of the Ingies.--Mr. Fairlegh, I say!"

"There, don't make such a row," replied I, jumping ~95~~out of bed and making a dash at my
clothes; "is it late?"

"Jest nine o'clock, sir; master and Mr. Cumberland's been gone these two hours. Shocking affair
that, sir; it always gives me quite a turn when any of our gents is expelled: it's like being
thrown out of place at a minute's warning, as I said to cook only this morning. 'Cook,' says
I, 'life's a curious thing,' there's----"

"The breakfast bell ringing, by all that's unlucky," exclaimed I; and downstairs I ran, with
one arm in, and one out of my jacket, leaving Thomas to conclude his speculations on the mutability
of human affairs as he best might, solus.

"How are we going to kill time to-day?" inquired Oaklands, as soon as we had done breakfast.

"We mustn't do anything to outrage the proprieties," said Coleman; "remember we are on parole
d'honneur."

"On a fiddlestick," interrupted Lawless; "let's all ride over to the Duke of York, at Bradford,
shoot some pigeons, have a champagne breakfast, and be home again in time for the old woman's
feed at five o'clock. I daresay I can pick up one or two fellows to go with us."

"No," said Oaklands, "that sort of thing won't do to-day. I quite agree with Freddy, we ought
not to do anything to annoy the Doctor upon this occasion; come, Lawless, I'm sure you'll say
so too, if you give it a moment's thought."

"Well, he's a good old fellow in his way, I know, but what are we to be at then? something
I must do, if it's only to keep me out of mischief."

"It's a lovely day; let us hire a boat, and have a row," suggested Coleman.

"That's not against the laws, is it?" asked Oaklands.

"Not a bit," replied Coleman; "we used to go pulling about like bricks last summer, and Mildman
rather approved of it than otherwise, and said it was a very healthy exercise."

"Yes, that will do," said Lawless; "I feel savage this morning, and a good pull will take it
out of me as well as anything. Now, don't go wasting time; let's get ready, and be off;" and
accordingly in less than half an hour we were prepared, and on our way to the beach.

"How are we going to do it?" inquired Lawless; "you'll take an oar, Oaklands?"

Oaklands replied in the affirmative.

"Can you row, Fairlegh?"

I answered that I could a little.

~96~~"That will do famously, then," said Lawless; "we'll have a four-oar; Wilson has a capital
little boat that will be just the thing; Freddy can steer, he's a very fair hand at it, and
we four fellows will pull, so that we need not be bothered with a boatman. I do abominate those
chaps, they are such a set of humbugs."

No objection was made to this plan. Lawless succeeded in getting the boat he wished for; it
was launched without any misadventure, and we took our places, and began pulling away merrily,
with the wind (what little there was) and tide both in our favour.

The morning was beautiful: it was one of those enjoyable days, which sometimes occur in early
spring, in which Nature, seeming to overleap at a bound the barrier between winter and summer,
gives us a delightful foretaste of the good things she has in store for us. The clear bright
sea, its surface just ruffled by a slight breeze from the south-west, sparkled in the sunshine,
and fell in diamond showers from our oars as we raised them out of the water, while the calm
serenity of the deep blue sky above us appeared, indeed, a fitting emblem of that heaven, in
which "the wicked cease from troubling, and the wear are at rest".

The peaceful beauty of the scene seemed to impress even the restless spirits of which our little
party was composed, and, by common consent, we ceased rowing, and suffered the boat to drift
with the tide, merely pulling a stroke now and then to keep her head in the right direction.
After drifting for some twenty minutes or so in the manner I have described Lawless, who never
could remain quiet long, dropped the blade of his oar into the water with a splash that made
us all start, exclaiming as he did so:--

"Well, this may be very sentimental and romantic, and all that sort of thing, but it doesn't
strike me as particularly entertaining. Why, you fellows were all asleep, I believe."

"Heigho!" exclaimed Oaklands, rousing himself, with a deep sigh, "I was in such a delicious
reverie; what a barbarian you are, Lawless! you seem utterly ignorant of the pleasures of the
dolce-far-niente."

"Dolce-far-devilskin!" was the reply, in tones of the greatest contempt. "I would not be as
lazy as you are, Oaklands, for any money. You are fitter to lounge about in some old woman's
drawing-room, than to handle an oar." "Well, I don't know," answered Oaklands, quietly, "but
I think I can pull as long as you can."

~97~~"You do, do you?" rejoined Lawless, "it will be odd to me, if you can. I don't think I
was stroke-oar in the crack boat at Eton for a year, without knowing how to row a little; what
do you say to having a try at once?"

"With all my heart," replied Oaklands, divesting himself of his waistcoat, braces, and neckcloth--which
latter article he braced tightly round his waist--an example speedily followed by Lawless,
who exclaimed, as he completed his preparations:--

"Now, you young shavers, pull in your oars, and we'll give you a ride, all free, gratis, for
nothing".

Mullins and I hastened to comply with Lawless's directions, by placing the oars and seating
ourselves so as not to interfere with the trim of the boat; while he and Oaklands, each taking
a firm grasp of his oar, commenced pulling away in real earnest. They were more evenly matched
than may be at first imagined, for Lawless, though much shorter than Oaklands, was very square-built
and broad about the shoulders, and his arms, which were unusually long in proportion to his
height, presented a remarkable development of muscle, while it was evident, from the manner
in which he handled his oar, that he was the more practised rower of the two. The boat, urged
by their powerful strokes, appeared to fly through the water, while cliff and headland (we
were rowing along shore about half a mile from the beach) came in view and disappeared again
like scenes in some moving panorama. We must now have proceeded some miles, yet still the rival
champions continued their exertions with unabated energy and a degree of strength that seemed
inexhaustible. Greatly interested in the event, I had at first watched the contending parties
with anxious attention, but, perceiving that the efforts they were making did not produce any
visible effects upon them, and that the struggle was likely to be a protracted one, I took
advantage of the opportunity to open a letter from my sister, which I had received just as
I was leaving the house. I was sorry to find, on perusing it, that my father had been suffering
from an inflammatory attack, brought on by a cold which he had caught in returning from a visit
to a sick parishioner, through a pouring rain. A postscript from my mother, however, added
that I need not make myself in the least uneasy, as the apothecary assured her that my father
was going on as well as possible, and would probably be quite restored in the course of a week
or so. On observing the date of the letter I found I ought to have received it the day before.
Arguing from this (on the "no-news-being-good-news" system) ~98~~that I should have heard again
if anything had gone wrong, I dismissed the subject from my mind, and was reading Fanny's account
of a juvenile party she had been at in the neighbourhood, when my attention was roused by Coleman,
who, laying his hand on my shoulder, said:

"Look out, Frank, it won't be long now before we shall see who's best man; the work's beginning
to tell".

Thus invoked, I raised my eyes, and perceived that a change had come over the aspect of affairs
while I had been engaged with my letter. Oaklands and Lawless were still rowing with the greatest
energy, but it appeared to me that their strokes were drawn with less and less vigour each
succeeding time, while their flushed faces, and heavy breathing, proved that the severe labour
they had undergone had not been without its effect. The only visible difference between them
was, that Lawless, from his superior training, had not, as a jocky would say, "turned a hair,"
while the perspiration hung in big drops upon the brow of Oaklands, and the knotted, swollen
veins of his hands stood out like tightly strained cordage.

"Hold hard!" shouted Lawless. "I say, Harry," he continued, as soon as they left off rowing,
"how are you getting on?"

"I have been cooler in my life," replied Oaklands, wiping his face with his handkerchief.

"Well, I think it's about a drawn battle," said Lawless; "though I am free to confess, that
if you were in proper training, I should be no match for you, even with the oar."

"What made you stop just then?" inquired Oaklands; "I'm sure I could have kept on for a quarter
of an hour longer, if not more."

"So could I," replied Lawless, "ay, or for half an hour, if I had been put to it; but I felt
the work was beginning to tell, I saw you were getting used up, and I recollected that we should
have to row back with the wind against us, which, as the breeze is freshening, will be no such
easy matter; so I thought if we went on till we were both done up we should be in a regular fix."

"It's lucky you remembered it," said Oaklands; "I was so excited, I should have gone on pulling
as long as I could have held an oar; we must be some distance from Helmstone by this time.
Have you any idea whereabouts we are?"

"Let's have a look," rejoined Lawless. "Yes, that tall cliff you see there is the Nag's Head,
and in the little bay ~99~~beyond stands the village of Fisherton. I vote we go ashore there,
have some bread and cheese, and a draught of porter at the inn, and then we shall be able to
pull back again twice as well."

This proposal seemed to afford general satisfaction; Mullins and I resumed our oars, and, in
less than half an hour, we were safely ensconced in the sanded parlour of the Dolphin, while
the pretty bar-maid, upon whom also devolved the duties of waitress, hastened to place before
us a smoking dish of eggs and bacon, which we had chosen in preference to red herrings--the
only other dainty the Dolphin had to offer us--Coleman observing that a "hard roe" was the
only part of a herring worth eating, and we had had that already, as we came along.

"I say, my dear, have you got any bottled porter?" inquired Lawless.

"Yes, sir, and very good it is," replied the smiling damsel.

"That's a blessing," observed Coleman, piously.

"Bring us up a lot of it, my beauty," resumed Lawless, "and some pewter pots--porter's twice
as good out of its own native pewter."

Thus exhorted, the blooming waitress tripped off, and soon returned with a basket containing
six bottles of porter.

"That's the time of day," said Lawless; "now for a corkscrew, pretty one; here you are, Oaklands."

"I must own that is capital, after such hard work as we have been doing," observed Oaklands,
as he emptied the pewter pot at a draught.

"I say, Mary," asked Coleman, "what's gone of that young man that used to keep company along
with you--that nice young chap, that had such insinivatin ways with him?"

"I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about, sir; I've nothink to say to no young man
whatsumever," replied the damsel addressed, shaking her curls coquettishly.

"Ah!" sighed Coleman, "if I were but single now."

"Why, you never mean to say you've got a wife already, such a very young gentleman as you are?"

"Not only that, but a small family with a large appetite," continued Coleman, pathetically.

"Well, I never," exclaimed the bar-maid, surprised, for once, out of her company manners; then,
observing a smile, at her expense, going the round of the party, she added, "I see how it is;
you are making fun of me, sir; ~100~~oh, fie, you're a wicked young gentleman, I know you are."

"Never mind him, my dear," said Lawless, "but give me another bottle of porter."

In converse such as this the meal and the half-dozen of porter were finished; in addition to
which Lawless chose to have a glass of brandy-and-water and a cigar. Having been rendered unusually
hungry by the sea air and the unaccustomed exercise of rowing, I had both eaten and drunk more
than I was in the habit of doing, to which cause may be attributed my falling into a doze;
an example which, I have every reason to believe, was followed by most of the others. I know
not how long my nap had lasted, when I was aroused by hearing Coleman exclaim:--

"Why I think it rains! Lawless, wake up! I don't much like the look of the weather."

"What's the row?" inquired Lawless, leisurely removing his legs from the table on which they
had been resting, and walking to the window--a feat, by the way, he did not perform quite as
steadily as usual. "By Jove!" he continued, "the wind's blowing great guns; we must look sharp,
and be off--we shall have the sea getting up."

Accordingly, the bill was rung for and paid; Mary received half a crown and a kiss from Lawless,
and down we ran to the beach, where difficulties we were little prepared for awaited us.

CHAPTER XI -- BREAKERS AHEAD!

          "Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an acre of
          barren  ground.... The wills above be done! but I would
          fain die a dry death."

          "I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he hath
          no drowning mark upon him."--Tempest.

THE wind, which we had observed was rising when we landed, had increased during our stay at
the inn, and was now blowing almost a gale from the south-west; whilst the sea, which we had
left smooth as a lake, was rolling in and breaking on the beach in somewhat formidable waves.

"I tell you what," said Coleman, as soon as he had observed the state of affairs, "I won't
attempt to steer in such a sea as that; it requires great skill and judgment, besides a stronger
hand than mine, to keep the ~101~~boat's head right; if I were to let her turn her broadside
to one of those waves, it would be a case of 'Found drowned' with some of us, before long."

"What's to be done, then?" inquired Oaklands. "I am sure I can't do it: it's a thing I'm quite
ignorant of; all my boating having been on the river."

"Let's hire one of those amphibious beggars out there to steer for us," proposed Lawless, pointing
to a group of fishermen who were lounging round an old boat, not far from where we stood; "they're
up to all the right dodges, you may depend. Here, my men! which of you will earn half a guinea
by steering our boat for us to Helmstone?"

"I wouldn't, master, for ten times the money," replied an old weather-beaten boatman, in a
tarpaulin hat; "and if you'll take an old man's advice, gentlemen, you'll none of you venture
out in that cockle-shell this afternoon; the wind's getting up every minute, and we shall have
a rough night of it."

"Nonsense," replied Lawless; "I've often been out in worse weather than this. Are you, all
of you, frightened by that old woman's croaking?" continued he, turning to the group of men.

"He's no old woman," replied a sturdy fellow, in a rough pea-jacket; "he's been a better sailor
than ever you'll be, and he's right now too," he added. "It's as much as a man's life is worth
to go to sea in that bit of a thing, with the waves running in as they do now--and with such
a set of landlubbers as them for a crew," he muttered, turning away.

"Suppose we try and get something to take us home by land," suggested Oaklands; "and leave
the boat for some of these good fellows to bring home, as soon as the weather will allow."

"You'll have to walk, sir," replied one of them, civilly; "I don't believe there's a cart or
horse in the place; they all went inland this morning with fish, and won't return till to-morrow."

"There, you hear that," said Lawless, who had just drunk enough to render him captious and
obstinate. "I'm not going to walk to please anybody's fancy; I see how it is,--I did not bid
high enough. A couple of guineas for any one who will come with us," added he.

"A couple of guineas is not to be got every day," observed a sullen, downcast-looking man,
who had not yet spoken; "and it is not much odds to me whether I sink or swim now; those custom-house
sharks," added he, with an oath, "look so close after one, that one can't ~102~~do a stroke
of work that will pay a fellow nowadays. Money down, and I'm your man, sir," he added, turning
to Lawless.

"That's the ticket," said Lawless, handing him the money. "I'm glad to see one of you, at least,
has got a little pluck about him. Come along."

I could see that Oaklands did not at all approve of the plan, evidently considering we were
running a foolish risk; but, as nothing short of a direct quarrel with Lawless could have prevented
it, his habitual indolence and easy temper prevailed, and he remained silent. I felt much inclined
to object, in which case I had little doubt the majority of the party would have supported
me; but a boyish dread, lest my refusal should be attributed to cowardice, prevented my doing
so. With the assistance of the by-standers we contrived to launch our little bark without further
misadventure than a rather heavier sprinkling of salt water than was agreeable. Rowing in such
a sea, however, proved much harder work than I, for one, had any idea of; we made scarcely
any way against the waves, and I soon felt sure that it would be utterly impossible for us
to reach Helmstone by any exertions we were capable of making. The weather too was becoming
worse every minute: it rained heavily, and it was with the greatest difficulty we were able
to prevent the crests of some of the larger waves from dashing into our boat; in fact, as it
was, she was already half full of water, which poured in faster than Coleman (who was the only
person not otherwise engaged) could bale it out.

"Upon my word, Lawless, it's madness to attempt to go on," exclaimed Oaklands; "we are throwing
away our lives for nothing."

"It certainly looks rather queerish," replied Lawless. "What do you say about it, my man?"
he asked of the person whom he had engaged to steer us.

"I say," replied the fellow in a surly tone, "that our only chance is to make for the beach
at once, and we shall have better luck than we deserve, if we reach it alive."

As he spoke a larger wave than usual broke against the bow of the boat, flinging in such a
body of water that we felt her stagger under it, and I believed, for a moment, that we were
about to sink. This decided the question; the boat's head was put about with some difficulty,
and we were soon straining every nerve to reach the shore. As we neared the beach we perceived
that even during ~103~~the short time which had elapsed since we quitted it, the sea had become
considerably rougher, and the line of surf now presented anything but an encouraging appearance.
As we approached the breakers the steersman desired us to back with our oars till he saw a
favourable opportunity; and the moment he gave us the signal to pull in as hard as we were
able. After a short pause the signal was given, and we attempted to pull in as he had directed;
but, in doing this, we did not act exactly in concert--Lawless taking his stroke too soon,
while Mullins did not make his soon enough; consequently, we missed the precise moment, the
boat turned broadside to the beach, a wave poured over us, and in another instant we were struggling
in the breakers. For my own part, I succeeded in gaining my legs, only to be thrown off them
again by the next wave, which hurried me along with it, and flung me on the shingle, when one
of the group of fishermen who had witnessed the catastrophe ran in, and seizing me by the arm,
in time to prevent my being washed back again by the under-tow, dragged me out of the reach
of the waves.

On recovering my feet my first impulse was to look round for my companions. I at once perceived
Lawless, Mullins, and Oaklands, who were apparently uninjured, though the latter held his hand
pressed against his forehead, as if in pain; but Coleman was nowhere to be seen. "Where is
Coleman?" exclaimed I.

"There is some one clinging to the boat still," observed a by-stander.

I looked anxiously in the direction indicated, and perceived the boat floating bottom upwards,
just beyond the line of breakers; while, clinging to the keel, was a figure which I instantly
recognised to be that of Coleman. "Oh, save him, save him; he will be drowned!" cried I, in
an agony of fear.

"Ten guineas for any one who will get him out!" shouted Lawless; but nobody seemed inclined
to stir.

"Give me a rope," cried I, seizing the end of a coil which one of the boatmen had over his
shoulder, and tying it round my waist.

"What are you going to do?" asked Lawless.

While he spoke a large wave separated Coleman from the boat, and, as it poured its huge volume
upon the beach, bore him along with it. With the swiftness of thought I sprang forward, and
succeeded in throwing my arms round him, ere the next advancing wave dashed over us. And now
my foresight in fastening the rope ~104~~around me proved, under Providence, the means of saving
both our lives. Though thrown to the ground by the force of the water I contrived to retain
my grasp of Coleman, and we were hauled up and conveyed beyond the reach of the surf by the
strong arms of those on shore, ere another wave could approach to claim its victims.

On recovering my consciousness (I had been partially stunned by the violence of my last fall)
I found myself lying on the beach, with my head resting on the breast of Oaklands.

"My dear, dear Frank, thank God that you are safe!" exclaimed he, pressing me more closely to him.

"What of Coleman?" asked I, endeavouring to raise myself.

"They are taking him to the inn," was the reply; "I will go and see if I can be of any use,
now I know you are unhurt; but I could not leave you till I felt sure of that."

"I fancied you seemed in pain just now," said I.

"I struck my head against some part of the boat when she capsized," returned Oaklands, "and
the blow stunned me for a minute or two, so that I knew nothing of what was going on till I
saw you rush into the water to save Coleman; that roused me effectually, and I helped them
to pull you both out. Frank, you have saved his life."

"If it is saved," rejoined I. "Let us go and see how he is getting on; I think I can walk now,
if you will let me lean upon your arm."

With the assistance of Oaklands I contrived to reach the inn without much difficulty; indeed,
by the time I got there (the walk having served in great measure to restore my circulation)
I scarcely felt any ill effects from my late exertions. The inn presented a rare scene of confusion:
people were hurrying in and out, the messenger sent for the doctor had just returned, breathless,
to say he was not to be found; the fat landlady, in a state of the greatest excitement, was
trotting about making impracticable suggestions, to which no one paid the slightest attention,
while Coleman, still insensible, lay wrapped in blankets before a blazing fire in the parlour,
with the pretty barmaid on her knees beside him sobbing piteously, as she chafed his temples
with some strong essence.

"That's the time of day!" exclaimed Lawless, as his eye fell upon a printed card which the
landlady had just thrust into his hand, headed, "The directions of the Humane Society for the
restoration of persons apparently drowned". "We shall have it now all right," added he, and
then read as follows: "The first observation we 105~~must make, which is most important, is,
that rolling the body on a tub--"

"Bring a tub," cried the landlady eagerly, and off started several of the by-standers to follow
her injunctions--

"Is most injurious," continued Lawless; "but holding up by the legs with the head downwards"--(a
party of volunteers, commanded by the landlady, rushed forward to obtain possession of Coleman's
legs)--"is certain death," shouted Lawless, concluding the sentence.

While this was going on I had been rubbing Coleman's hands between my own, in the hope of restoring
circulation; and now, to my extreme delight, I perceived a slight pulsation at the wrist; next
came a deep sigh, followed by a tremulous motion of the limbs; and, before five minutes were
over, he was sufficiently restored to sit up, and recognise those about him. After this, his
recovery progressed with such rapidity that ere half an hour had elapsed he was able to listen
with interest to Oaklands' account of the circumstances attending his rescue, when Lawless,
hastily entering the room, exclaimed: "Here's a slice of good luck, at all events; there's
a post-chaise just stopped, returning to Helmstone, and the boy agrees to take us all for a
shilling a head, as soon as he has done watering his horses. How is Freddy getting on?--will
he be able to go?"

"All right, old fellow," replied Coleman. "Thanks to Fairlegh in the first instance, and a
stiff glass of brandy-and-water in the second, 'Richard's himself again!'"

"Well, you've had a near shave for it this time, however," said Lawless; "there is more truth
than I was aware of in the old proverb, 'If you are born to be hanged, you will never be drowned';
though, if it had not been for Frank Fairlegh, you would not have lived to fulfil your destiny."

In another ten minutes we were all packed in and about the post-chaise; Coleman, Oaklands,
and myself occupying the interior, while Lawless and Mullins rode outside. The promise of an
extra half-crown induced the driver to use his best speed. At a quarter before five we were
within a stone's-throw of home; and if that day at dinner Mrs. Mildman observed the pale looks
and jaded appearance of some of the party, I have every reason to believe she has remained
up to the present hour in total ignorance as to their cause. ~106~~

CHAPTER XII -- DEATH AND CHANGE

          "The voice which I did more esteem
          Than music on her sweetest key;

          Those eyes which unto me did seem
          More comfortable than the day;

          Those now by me, as they have been,
          Shall never more be heard or seen;

          But what I once enjoyed in them,
          Shall seem hereafter as a dream.

          "All earthly comforts vanish thus;
          So little hold of them have we;

          That we from them, or they from us,
          May in a moment ravished be.

          Yet we are neither just nor wise
          If present mercies we despise,

          Or mind not how these may be made
          A thankful use of what we had."
          --Wither.

          "Up springs at every step to claim a tear
          Some youthful friendship form'd and cherish'd here."
          --Rogers.

AS I was undressing that night Coleman came into my room, and grasping my hand with his own
shook it warmly, saying: "I could not go to sleep, Frank, without coming to thank you for the
noble way in which you risked your own life to save mine to-day. I laughed it off before Lawless
and the rest of the fellows, for when I feel deeply, I hate to show it; but indeed," (and the
tears stood in his eyes while he spoke), "indeed I am not ungrateful."

"My dear Freddy," returned I, "do not suppose I thought you so for a moment; there, say no
more about it; you would have done the same thing for me that I did for you, had our positions
been reversed."

"I am not so sure of that," was his reply; "I should have wished to do so; but it is not every
one who can act with such promptitude and decision in moments of danger."

~107~~"There is one request I should like to make," said I.

"What is it?" replied he quickly.

"Do not forget to thank Him, whose instrument I was, for having so mercifully preserved your life."

A silent pressure of the hand was the only answer, and we parted for the night.

Owing, probably, to over-fatigue, it was some little time before I went to sleep. As I lay
courting the fickle goddess (or god as the case may be, for, mythologically speaking, I believe
Somnus was a he), I could not help contrasting my present feelings with those which I had experienced
on the first night of my arrival. Then, overcome by the novelty of my situation, filled with
a lively dread of my tutor, bullied and despised by my companions, and separated for what I
deemed an interminable period from all who were dear to me, my position was far from an enviable
one.. Now, how different was the aspect of affairs! With my tutor, who, from an object of dread,
had become one of esteem and affection, I had every reason to believe myself a favourite; I
was on terms of the closest friendship with those of my companions whose intimacy was best
worth cultivating; while with the others I had gained a standing which would effectually prevent
their ever venturing seriously to annoy me; and, above all, I had acquired that degree of self-confidence,
without which one is alike impotent to choose the good or to refuse the evil. And it was with
an honest pride that I reflected, that this improvement in my position was mainly owing to
a steady adherence to those principles, which it had been the constant aim of my dear parents
to instil into me from my childhood. I fell asleep at last, endeavouring to picture to myself
the delight of relating my adventures on my return home; how my mother and sister would shudder
over the dangers I had escaped, while my father would applaud the spirit which had carried
me through them. The vision was a bright and happy one: would it ever be realised?

To our surprise, we learned the next morning that Dr. Mildman had arrived by the last coach
the previous evening, having fortunately met with Cumberland's uncle at his house of business
in town, and delivered his nephew into his safe custody without further loss of time. The breakfast
passed over without the Doctor making any inquiry how we had amused ourselves during his absence,
nor, as may easily be believed, did we volunteer information on the subject. On returning to
the pupils' room I found a letter, in my sister's handwriting, lying ~108~~on the table. With
a feeling of dread for which I could not account, I hastened to peruse it. Alas! the contents
only served to realise my worst apprehensions. My father's illness had suddenly assumed a most
alarming character, inflammation having attacked the lungs with such violence that the most
active measures had failed to subdue it, and the physician, whom my mother had summoned on
the first appearance of danger, scarcely held out the slightest hope of his recovery. Under
these circumstances my mother wished me to return home without loss of time, as my father,
before he became delirious, had desired that I might be sent for, expressing himself most anxious
to see me; and the letter concluded with a line in my mother's handwriting, exhorting me to
make every exertion to reach home without delay, if I wished to find him alive. For a minute
or two I sat with the letter still open in my hand, as if stunned by the intelligence I had
received; then, recollecting that every instant was of importance, I sprang up, saying, "Where's
Dr. Mildman? I must see him directly."

"My dear Frank, is anything the matter? you are not ill?" inquired Oaklands anxiously.

"You have received some bad news, I am afraid," said Coleman.

"My father is very ill, dying perhaps," replied I, while the tears, which I in vain endeavoured
to restrain, trickled down my cheeks. After giving way to my feelings for a minute or two,
the necessity for action again flashed across me.

"What time is it now?" inquired I, drying my eyes.

"Just ten," replied Oaklands, looking at his watch.

"There is a coach which starts at the half-hour, is there not?"

"Yes, the Highflyer, the best drag on the road," returned Lawless; "takes you to town in five
hours, and does the thing well too."

"I must go by that then," replied I.

"What can I do to help you?" asked Coleman.

"If you would put a few things into my bag for me, while I speak to the Doctor," rejoined I.

"I will go and get a fly for you," said Lawless, "and then I can pick out a nag that will move
his pins a bit; that will save you ten minutes, and you have no time to lose."

On acquainting Dr. Mildman with the sad intelligence I had received, and the necessity which
existed for me to depart immediately, he at once gave me his permission 109~~to do so; and,
after speaking kindly to me, and showing the deepest sympathy for my distress, said he would
not detain me longer, as I must have preparations to make, but should like to see me the last
thing before I started, and wish me good-bye.

I found, on reaching my own room, my carpet-bag already packed: Coleman and Thomas (whose honest
face wore an expression of genuine commiseration) having exerted themselves to save me all
trouble on that head. Nothing, therefore, remained for me to do, but to take leave of my fellow-pupils
and Dr. Mildman. After shaking hands with Lawless and Mullins (the former assuring me, as he
did so, that I was certain not to be late, for he had succeeded in securing a trap, with a
very spicy little nag in it, which would have me there in no time) I hastened to take leave
of my tutor. The kindhearted Doctor inquired whether I had sufficient money for my journey,
and, begging me to write him word how I got home, shook me warmly by the hand, saying, as he
did so, "God bless you, my boy! I trust you may find your father better; but if this should
not be the case, remember whose hand it is inflicts the blow, and strive to say, 'Thy will
be done'. We shall have you among us again soon, I hope; but should anything prevent your return,
I wish you to know that I am perfectly satisfied with the progress you have made in your studies;
and, in other respects, you have never given me a moment's uneasiness since you first entered
my house. Once more, good-bye; and remember, if ever you should want a friend, you will find
one in Samuel Mildman."

The fly-horse proved itself deserving of Lawless's panegyric, and I arrived at the coach-office
in time to secure a seat outside the Highflyer. After taking an affectionate leave of Oaklands
and Coleman, who had accompanied me, I ascended to my place; the coachman mounted his box,
exactly as the clock chimed the halfhour the horses sprang forward with a bound, and ere ten
minutes had elapsed Helmstone lay at least a couple of miles behind us.

I accomplished my journey more quickly than I had deemed possible, and had the melancholy satisfaction
of reaching home in time to receive my father's blessing. The powerful remedies to which they
had been obliged to have recourse had produced their effect; the inflammation was subdued;
but the struggle had been protracted too long, and his constitution, already enfeebled by a
life of constant labour and self-denial, was unable to rally.

~110~~Having given me a solemn charge to cherish and protect my mother and sister, he commended
us all to the care of Him who is emphatically termed "the God of the fatherless and widow";
and then, his only earthly care being ended, he prepared to meet Death, as those alone can
do to whom "to die is gain". When the last beam of the setting sun threw a golden tint around
the spire of the little village church those lips which had so often breathed the words of
prayer and praise within its sacred walls were mute for ever, and the gentle spirit which animated
them had returned to God who gave it!

In regard to this portion of my career, but little more remains to be told. My father's income
being chiefly derived from his church preferment, and his charities having been conducted on
too liberal a scale to allow of his laying by money, the funds which remained at my mother's
disposal after winding up his affairs, though enough to secure us from actual poverty, were
not sufficient to allow of my continuing an inmate of an establishment so expensive as that
of Dr. Mildman. On being informed of this change of circumstances the Doctor wrote to my mother
in the kindest manner; speaking of me in terms of praise which I will not repeat, and inquiring
what were her future views in regard to me; expressing his earnest desire to assist them to
the utmost of his ability. At the same time I received letters from Oaklands and Coleman full
of lamentations that I was not likely to return; and promising, in the warmth of their hearts,
that their respective fathers should assist me in all ways, possible and impossible. Mr. Coleman,
senior, in particular, was to do most unheard-of things for me; indeed, Freddy more than hinted
that through his agency I might consider myself secure of the Attorney-Generalship, with a
speedy prospect of becoming Lord Chancellor. I also found enclosed a very characteristic note
from Lawless, wherein he stated, that if I really was likely to be obliged to earn my own living,
he could put me up to a dodge, by which all the disagreeables of having so to do might be avoided.
This infallible recipe proved to be a scheme for my turning stage-coachman! After citing numerous
examples of gentlemen who had done so (amongst whom the name of a certain baronet stood forth
in high pre-eminence), he wound up by desiring me to give the scheme my serious attention,
and, if I agreed to it, to come and spend a month with him when he returned home at midsummer;
by the end of which time he would engage to turn me out as finished a "Waggoner" as ever handled
the ribbons.

~111~~To these letters I despatched suitable replies, thanking the writers for their kindness,
but refusing to avail myself of their offers, at all events for the present; and I finished
by expressing a hope, that, be my fate in life what it might, I should still preserve the regard
and esteem of the friends whose affection I prized so highly.

For some months after my father's death I continued to live at the rectory; Mr. Dalton, the
new incumbent, who had been his curate, and was unmarried, kindly allowing my mother to remain
there till her plans for the future should be so far arranged as to enable her to determine
in what part of the country it would be advisable for her to reside. It had been my father's
wish and intention, when I should have attained a fit age, to send me to one of the universities:
a wish my mother was most anxious to carry into effect. In order to accomplish this wish with
her reduced means, it would have been necessary for her, not only to have practised the strictest
economy, but also, in great measure, to have sacrificed my sister's education, as she would
have been utterly unable to afford the advantage of masters. To this, of course, I would not
consent; after much discussion, therefore, the idea of college was reluctantly given up, and,
as a last resource, my mother applied to an uncle of hers, engaged in the West India trade,
begging him to endeavour to procure for me a clerkship in some mercantile establishment. She
received a very kind reply, saying that, although he considered me too young at present to
be chained to a desk, he should advise me to apply myself diligently to the study of French
and book-keeping; and ending by offering me a situation in his own counting-house when I should
be eighteen. As my only alternative lay between accepting this offer (however little suited
to my taste), or remaining a burden upon my mother, it may easily be imagined that I lost no
time in signifying my desire to avail myself of his kindness; and, ere a couple of months had
elapsed, I had plunged deeply into the mysteries of book-keeping, and could jabber French with
tolerable fluency. I was still working away at "Double Entry," and other horrors of a like
nature, when one morning I received a large business-like letter, in an unknown hand, the contents
of which astonished me not a little, as well they might; for they proved to be of a nature
once more entirely to change my prospects in life. The epistle came from Messrs. Coutts, the
bankers, and stated that they were commissioned to pay me the sum of four hundred pounds per
annum, in quarterly payments, for the purpose ~112~~of defraying my expenses at college; the
only stipulations being, that the money should be used for the purpose specified, that I did
not contract any debts whatsoever, and that I made no inquiries, direct or indirect, as to
the source from which the sum proceeded. In the event of my complying with these conditions,
the same allowance was to be continued to me till I should have taken my degree.

The immediate consequence of this most unexpected communication was, our devoting the greater
part of a morning to vain speculations as to the possible source from which this liberal offer
might have proceeded. After guessing every one we could think of, likely or unlikely, we ended,
as is usual in such cases, by becoming decidedly more puzzled than when we began. The only
person with whom I was acquainted, possessing both the will and the power to do such a thing,
was Sir John Oaklands; but he had already, in the kindest manner, tried to persuade my mother
to allow me to accompany Harry to Trinity College, Cambridge, begging to be permitted to defray
the expenses of my so doing himself; an offer which she (not choosing to place herself under
so heavy an obligation to a comparative stranger) had, with many expressions of gratitude,
declined. After consulting with our friend Mr. Dalton, it was decided that I should signify
to Messrs. Coutts my readiness to comply with the required conditions, begging them to convey
my best thanks to my mysterious benefactor, and to inform him that it was my intention (subject
to his approval) to enter my name at Trinity without loss of time. In answer to this I received
the following laconic epistle:--

"Messrs. Coutts beg to inform Mr. Frank Fairlegh, that, in reply to his favour of the 21st
ult., they are desired to state, that the sum of four hundred pounds per annum will be placed
at his disposal whenever he applies for it".

I now resumed my studies under the superintendence of Mr. Dalton, who had taken a good degree
at Cambridge; and, alike delighted at my escape from the counting-house, and anxious to do
credit to my benefactor's liberality, I determined to make the best use of my time, and worked
con amore. In this manner the next year and a half passed away without anything worthy of remark
occurring. I was happy to perceive a ~113~~gradual improvement taking place in my mother's
health and spirits, while Fanny was developing into a very pretty and agreeable girl.

Towards the expiration of this period Mr. Dalton saw fit to take unto himself a wife, a circumstance
which induced my mother to accept the offer of a cottage belonging to Sir John Oaklands, which
was suited to her limited means. It was situated within the park gates, about a mile from Heathfield
Hall, and, though small, appeared well-built, and exceedingly pretty.

This was an arrangement of which I highly approved, as it enabled me to renew my intercourse
with Harry, who, having left Dr. Mildman's, was spending a few months at home with his father
previous to his matriculation at Trinity. I found him but little altered in any respect, save
that he had become more manly-looking. For the rest, he was just as good-tempered, kind-hearted,
and, alas! indolent as ever. He informed me that Lawless also was going to Cambridge, and that
Coleman, when he learned what a party of us there would be, had been most anxious to accompany
us; but his father, unfortunately, did not approve, and he was now articled to a solicitor,
with a view to his succeeding eventually to his father's practice.

Time rolled on, and another three months beheld us duly installed in our rooms at Trinity,
and dividing our time between reading (more or less, in accordance with our various idiosyncrasies),
boating on the Cam, billiard-playing at Chesterton, et hoc genus omne.

Of the details of my college life I shall say but little, a piece of forbearance for which
I consider myself entitled to the everlasting gratitude of my readers, who, if they have not
had their curiosity on that subject more than satisfied by the interminable narrations of "Peter
Priggins," and his host of imitators, must indeed be insatiable. Suffice it then to say, that,
having from the first determined, if possible, to obtain a good degree, I made a resolute stand
against the advances of Lawless (who, in consequence of his father's having, for some reason
best known to himself and the Premier, received a peerage, had now become an "honourable")
and the "rowing set," amongst whom, by a sort of freemasonry of kindred souls, he had become
enrolled immediately on his arrival. After several fruitless attempts to shake my determination,
they pronounced me an incorrigible "sap," and, leaving me to my own devices, proceeded to try
their powers upon Oaklands. They met with but little ~114~~success in this quarter, however;
not that with him they had any indomitable love of study to contend with, but that "all that
sort of thing was too much trouble; he really didn't believe there was a single fellow among
the whole lot who had the slightest appreciation of the dolce far niente". When, however, they
found out that upon an emergency Harry could excel them all--whatever might be the nature of
the feat to be performed--and that I could cross a country, pull an oar, or handle a bat with
the best of them, they set us down as a pair of eccentric geniuses, and as such admitted us
to a kind of honorary membership in their worshipful society; and thus, 'twixt work and play,
the first two years of my residence at Cambridge passed happily enough.

CHAPTER XIII -- CATCHING A SHRIMP

          "Give me that boy."
          --Shakspeare.

          "I was there
          From college, visiting the son."
          --Princess.

          "To bring in, Heaven shield us, a lion among ladies, is a
          most dreadful thing."
          --Shakspeare.

"A MIGHTY stupid chapter that last!" "True for you, A reader, but how was it to be avoided?
It was necessary to give you that short summary of my proceedings, the better to enable you
to understand all that is to follow, and so, don't you see?"

"Yes, that will do. Above all things, Master Frank, avoid being prosy; it is the worst fault
an author can fall into."

"Reader, you're very cross!"

It was towards the close of the long vacation that, one morning as I was sitting at breakfast
with my mother and sister, a note was brought to me. On opening it, it proved to be from Coleman,
whose father had lately taken a country-house near Hillingford, a small town about fifteen
miles from Heathfield, where he was now about to give a grand ball to all the neighbourhood
by way of house-warming. At this ball Freddy (with whom I had kept up a constant correspondence,
though we had never met since I left Dr. Mildman's) was most anxious I should be present, and
his letter was really a master-piece of ~115~~persuasion: not only should I meet all the beauty
and fashion of the county, but he had for some days past employed himself in paving the way
for me with several of the most desirable young ladies of his acquaintance, who were now, as
he assured me, actually pining to be introduced to me. Moreover, the Honourable George Lawless
had promised to be there; so we were safe for fun of some sort, Lawless's tastes and habits
being about as congenial to the atmosphere of a ball-room, as those of a bull to the interior
of a china-shop.

~115~These manifold temptations, together with the desire of again meeting Freddy himself,
proved irresistible, and I decided to go. Oaklands, who had received a similar invitation,
was unluckily not able to accept it, as his father had fixed a shooting-party for that day,
at which, and at the dinner that was to follow, Harry's presence was indispensable.

It was in the afternoon of a glorious September day that I set off on horseback for Hillingford.
I had accompanied the sportsmen in the morning, and had walked just enough to excite without
fatiguing myself; and now the elastic motion of the horse (a valuable hunter of Sir John's)--the
influence of the fair scene around me, as I cantered over the smooth turf of Heathfield Park,
and along the green lanes beyond it--the prospect of seeing again an old companion of my boyhood's
days--all contributed to produce in me an exhilaration of spirits which seemed to raise me
above the kleinigkeiten, the little, nesses (as the Germans so well express it) of this world,
and to exalt me to some higher and nobler sphere. Out of this day-dream I was at length aroused
by the clatter of horses' feet and the rattle of wheels in the lane behind me, while a man's
voice, in tones not of the most gentle description, accosted me as follows: "Now then, sir,
if you've got a licence to take up the whole road, I'll just trouble you to show it!" With
a touch of the spur I caused my horse to bound on one side, and, as I did so, I turned to look
at the speaker. Perched high in mid-air, upon some mysterious species of dog-cart, bearing
a striking resemblance to the box of a mail-coach, which had contrived, by some private theory
of development of its own, to dispense with its body, while it had enlarged its wheels to an
almost incredible circumference; perched on the top of this remarkable machine, and enveloped
in a white greatcoat undermined in every direction by strange and unexpected pockets, was none
other than the Honourable George Lawless! The turn-out was drawn by a pair ~116~~of thorough-breds,
driven tandem, which were now (their irascible tempers being disturbed by the delay which my
usurpation of the road had occasioned) relieving their feelings by executing a kind of hornpipe
upon their hindlegs. The equipage was completed by a tiger, so small, that beyond a vague sensation
of top-boots and a livery hat, one's senses failed to realise him.

"Why, Lawless!" exclaimed I; "you are determined to astonish the natives, with a vengeance:
such a turnout as that has never been seen in these parts before, I'm certain."

"Frank Fairlegh, by Jove! How are you, old fellow? Is it my trap you're talking about? what
do you think of it? rather the thing, isn't it, eh?" I signified my approval, and Lawless continued,
"Yes, it's been very much admired, I assure you;--quiet, mare! quiet!--not a bad sort of dodge
to knock about in, eh?--What are you at, fool?--Tumble out, Shrimp, and hit Spiteful a lick
on the nose--he's eating the mare's tail. Spicy tiger, Shrimp--did you ever hear how I picked
him up?" I replied in the negative, and Lawless resumed:--

"I was down at Broadstairs, the beginning of the long --wretched place, but I went there for
a boat-race with some more fellows; well, of course, because we wanted it to be fine, the weather
turned sulky, and the boat-race had to be put off; so, to prevent ourselves from going melancholy
mad, we hired a drag, and managed to get together a team, such as it was. The first day we
went out they elected me waggoner, and a nice job I had of it; three of the horses had never
been in harness before, and the fourth was a bolter. It was pretty near half an hour before
we could get them to start; and, when they were off, I had enough to do to keep their heads
out of the shop-windows. However, as soon as they began to get warm to their work, things improved,
and we rattled along merrily. We were spinning away at about twelve miles an hour when, just
as we were getting clear of the town, we came suddenly upon a covey of juvenile blackguards
who were manufacturing dirt pies right in the centre of the road. As soon as I saw them I sung
out to them to clear the course, but before they had time to cut away we were slap into the
middle of them. Well, I thought it was to be a regular case of Herod, and that there would
be at least half a dozen of them spifflicated, but they all managed to save their bacon, except
Shrimp--one of the wheels went over him and broke him somewhere. Where was it, Shrimp?"

~117~~"Left arm, sir, if you please," replied Shrimp in a shrill treble.

"Ay, so it was," continued Lawless. "As soon as I could contrive to pull up I sent the groom
back, with orders to find a doctor, get the boy repaired, and tell them to come to me at the
hotel in the morning, and I'd pay for all damages. Accordingly, while I was eating my breakfast
next morning, an amphibious old female in a blue pea-jacket was shown in to me, who stated
she was Shrimp's mother. First, she was extremely lachrymose, and couldn't speak a word; then
she got the steam up, and began slanging me till all was blue: I was 'an unchristian-like,
hard-hearted, heathen Turk, so I was, and I'd been and spiled her sweet boy completely, so
I had; such a boy as he was too, bless him; it was quite a sight to hear him say his Catechism;
and as to reading his book, he'd beat the parson himself into fits at it'. Fortunately for
me, she was a little touched in the wind, and, when she pulled up to take breath for a fresh
start, I managed to cut in. 'I tell you what it is, old lady,' said I, 'there's no need for
you to put yourself into a fury about it; misfortunes will happen in the best-regulated families,
and it seems to me a boy more or less can make no great odds to any one--no fear of the breed
becoming extinct just at present, if one may judge from appearances; however, as you seem to
set a value upon this particular boy, I'll tell you what I'll do: I'll buy him of you, and
then, if anything should go wrong with him, it will be my loss and not yours. I'll give you
twenty pounds for him, and that's more than he would be worth if he was sound.' By Jove, the
old girl brightened up in a moment, wiped her eyes with the sleeve of her coat, and said: 'Five
pounds more, and it's a bargain'. And the end of it all was, the brat got well before I left
the place; I paid the old woman her money, and brought Shrimp away with me, and it hasn't turned
out such a bad spec either, for he makes a capital tiger; and now I've broken him in, I would
not take twice the money for him. You'll be at old Coleman's hop to-night, I suppose; so bye!
bye! for the present."

Thus saying he drew the whip lightly across the leader's back, the horses sprang forward, and
in another moment he was out of sight.

Half an hour's ride brought me within view of Elm Lodge, the house lately taken by Mr. Coleman,
senior. As I rang at the bell a figure leaped out of one of the front windows, and came bounding
across the lawn to meet me, ~118~~and in another minute my hand was seized and my arm nearly
shaken off by Coleman.

"Freddy, old boy!" "Frank, my dear old fellow!" were our mutual exclamations, as we once more
shook hands with an energy which must have highly edified a pompous footman whom my ring had
summoned. After the first excitement of our meeting had a little subsided we found time to
examine each other more minutely, and note the changes a couple of years had wrought in us.
Coleman was the first to speak.

"Why, Frank, how you are altered!" "If you were but decently civil, you would say 'improved'
instead of 'altered,'" replied I; "but you'll never learn manners."

"Oh, if you want compliments I'll soon get up a few, but it strikes me they are not required.
A man with such a face and figure as yours soon finds out that he is a deucedly good-looking
fellow. Why, how high do you stand?"

"About six feet without my boots," replied I, laughing at Coleman, who kept turning me round,
and examining me from top to toe, as if I had been some newly discovered animal.

"Well, you are a screamer, and no mistake," exclaimed he at length. "Be merciful towards the
young ladies tonight, or the floor will be so cumbered with the heaps of slain that we shall
have no room to dance."

"Never fear," rejoined I, "the female breast is not so susceptible as you imagine; and I'll
back your bright eyes and merry smile to do more execution than my long legs and broad shoulders
any day."

"No soft sawder, Master Frank, if you please; it's an article for which I've a particular distaste:
people never make pretty speeches to one's face without laughing at one behind one's back afterwards
by way of compensation."

"Which rule of course applies to the remarks you have just been making about me," returned I.

"You've caught me there fairly," laughed Coleman; "but come along in, now, I want to introduce
you to my mother and the governor; they are longing to see you after all I've told them about
you, though I can't say you look much like the thin delicate youth I have described you."

Mr. Coleman, who was a short, stout, red-faced old gentleman, with a bald head and a somewhat
pompous manner, came forward and welcomed me warmly, saying ~119~~all sorts of complimentary
things to me in extremely high-flown and grandiloquent language, and referring to my having
saved his son's life, in doing which, however, he quite won my heart by the evident pride and
affection with which he spoke of Freddy. The lady of the house was a little, round, merry-looking
woman, chiefly remarkable (as I soon discovered) for a peculiar mental obliquity, leading her
always to think of the wrong thing at the wrong time, whereby she was perpetually becoming
involved in grievous colloquial entanglements, and meeting with innumerable small personal
accidents, at which no one laughed so heartily as herself.

About half-past nine that evening some of the guests began to arrive, amongst the foremost
of whom was Lawless, most expensively got up for the occasion in a stock and waistcoat, which,
as Coleman observed, required to be seen ere they could be believed in. As the arrivals succeeded
each other more rapidly, and the rooms began to fill, Lawless took me by the arm and led me
to a corner, whence, unnoticed ourselves, we could observe the whole scene.

"This will be a very full meet, Fairlegh," he began; "I'm getting confoundedly nervous, I can
tell you; I'm not used to this sort of affair, you know; I used always to shirk everything
of the kind, but my Mater has got it into her head, since she's become 'My Lady,' that she
must flare up and give balls, because 'ladies of rank always do so,' forsooth; and so she's
taken me in hand, to try and polish me up into something like 'a man of fashion,' as she calls
those confounded puppies one sees lounging about drawing-rooms. Well, as I didn't like to rile
the old woman by refusing to do what she wanted, I went to a French mounseer, to teach me my
paces; I've been in training above a month, so I thought I'd come here just as a sort of trial
to see how I could go the pace." "This is your debut, in fact," returned I. "My how much?"
was the reply. "Oh, I see, starting for the maiden stakes, for untried horses only--that sort
of thing--eh? Yes, it's the first time I've been regularly entered; I hope I shan't bolt off
the course; I feel uncommon shy at starting, I can assure you."

"Oh, you'll do very well when you're once off; your partner will tell you if you are going
to make any mistake," replied I.

"My partner, eh? You mean one of those white-muslined young ladies, who is to run in double
harness with me, I suppose?--that's another sell;--I shall be ~120~~expected to talk to her,
and I never know what to say to women; if one don't pay 'era compliments, and do a bit of the
sentimental, they set you down as a brute directly. What an ass I was to come here! I wish
it was bedtime!"

"Nonsense, man; never be afraid!" exclaimed Freddy, who had just joined us; "I'll pick you
out a partner who's used to the thing, and will do all the talking herself, and be glad of
the opportunity of giving her tongue a little exercise; and here comes the very girl, of all
others--Di Clapperton." Then turning towards a tall, showy-looking girl, who had just arrived,
he addressed her with--"Delighted to see you, Miss Clapperton; a ball-room never appears to
me properly arranged till it is graced by your presence: here's my friend, the Hon. George
Lawless, dying to be introduced to you".

"Pleasure--ar--dancing--with you, eh?" muttered the Hon. George, giving a little quick nod
between each word, and getting very red in the face.

The young lady smiled a gracious assent, and saying, "I think they are forming a quadrille--shall
we take our places?" marched him off in triumph.

"Frank, are you provided; or can I do anything for you?" inquired Coleman.

"Who is that interesting-looking girl, with dark hair?" asked I, in return.

"What, the she-male with the white camellia in her head, leaning on the arm of that old fellow
with a cast-iron face? What a splendid pair of eyes she has got! I'll rind out her name, and
get you introduced," replied Coleman, disappearing in the crowd. In a minute or two he returned,
and informed me that the young lady's name was Saville. "You've not made such a bad hit either,"
continued he; "they tell me she's to be a great heiress, and old Ironsides there is her guardian.
They say he keeps her shut up so close that nobody can see her; he would hardly let her come
to-night, only he's under some business obligations to my governor, and he persuaded him to
bring her, in order to give me a chance, I suppose."

"What an expression of sadness there is in those deep blue eyes of hers! I am afraid she is
not happy, poor thing!" said I, half thinking aloud.

"Why, you're getting quite romantic about it!" returned Coleman; "for my part, I think she
looks rather jolly than otherwise;--see how she's laughing with my cousin Lucy; by Jove, how
her face lights up when ~121~~she smiles!--she's very decidedly pretty. Well, will you be introduced?--they
are going to waltz."

I signified my assent, and Coleman set off in search of his father to perform the ceremony,
not having courage enough himself to face "old Stiff-back," as he irreverently termed the young
lady's guardian.

"I am sorry to refuse your young friend, Mr. Coleman," was the reply to my introduction; "but
Miss Saville never waltzes."

"Come, don't be crabbed, Vernor; young people ought to enjoy themselves; recollect, we were
young ourselves once!"

"If old Time had dealt as leniently by me as he seems to have done by you, Coleman, I should
consider myself young yet," replied Mr. Vernor. "I believe I have spoken my ward's wishes upon
this point; but, if it would be more satisfactory to your friend to hear her decision from
her own lips I can have no objection.--Clara, my dear, this gentleman, Mr. Fairlegh, does you
the honour of wishing to waltz with you."

Thus accosted, Miss Saville raised her eyes to my face for a moment, and, instantly casting
them down again, coloured slightly, as she replied: "If Mr. Fairlegh will excuse me, I had
rather not waltz".

I could, of course, only bow in acquiescence, and was turning away, when old Mr. Coleman stopped
me with:--

"There, wait a minute, Mr. Fairlegh; my little niece, Lucy Markham, will be only too glad to
console you for your disappointment; she's never so happy as when she's waltzing".

"If you are impertinent, uncle, I'll make you waltz with me till you're quite tired, by way
of punishment!" replied his niece, as she accepted my proffered arm.

During a pause in the waltz I referred to the refusal just received, and asked my partner (a
lively little brunette, with very white teeth and a bewitching smile) whether her friend Miss
Saville were not somewhat of a prude?

"Poor dear Clara--a prude?--oh no!" was the reply. "You mean because she would not waltz, I
suppose?"

I bowed my head in assent, and she continued:--

"I gave you credit for more penetration, Mr. Fairlegh; did you not see it was all that horrible
Mr. Vernor, her guardian?--he chose her not to waltz; and she is too much afraid of him to
dare to do anything he does not approve;--he would hardly let her come here to-night, only
Uncle Coleman worried him into it".

~122~~"She is exceedingly pretty," remarked I; "there is something peculiar in the expression
of those beautiful blue eyes which particularly pleases me; an earnest, trustful look, which--you
will laugh at what I am going to say--which I have never seen before, except in the eyes of a dog!"

"Oh! I know so well what you mean," replied my partner; "I have observed it often, but I never
should have known how to express it. What a good idea!"

"May I ask whether you are very intimate with her? Is she an old friend of yours?"

"No, I never saw her till my uncle took this house; but Mr. Vernor sometimes brings her with
him when he drives over on business, and she comes and sits with me while they are puzzling
about their parchments. I like her so much; she seems as agreeable and good as she is pretty."

"How is it," asked I, "that my friend Freddy did not know her by sight even?--he had to inquire
her name this evening."

"Why, Frederick is generally obliged to be in town, you know; and I have observed that when
he is down here Mr. Vernor never brings her with him."

"He had better make a nun of her at once," said I.

"Perhaps she won't be a nun!" said, or rather sang Lucy. And here we joined the waltzers again,
and the conversation ended.

CHAPTER XIV -- THE BALL

          "I could be pleased with any one,
          Who entertained my sight with such gay shows
          As men and women, moving here and there,
          That coursing one another in their steps,
          Have made their feet a tune."
          --Dryden.

          "And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake."

          "Come now, what... shall we have,
          To wear away this long age of three hours,
          Between our after-supper and bed-time?"
          --Midsummer Night's Dream.

"By Jove! this is hot work!" exclaimed Lawless, flinging himself down on a sofa so violently
as to make an old lady, who occupied the farther end of it, jump to an extent which seriously
disarranged an Anglo-Asiatic ~123~~nondescript, believed in by her as a turban, wherewith she
adorned her aged head. "If I have not been going the pace like a brick for the last two hours,
it's a pity; what a girl that Di Clapperton is to step out!--splendid action she has, to be
sure, and giving tongue all the time too. She's in first-rate training, 'pon my word: I thought
she'd have sewn me up at one time--the pace was terrific. I must walk into old Coleman's champagne
before I make a fresh start; when I've recovered my wind, and got a mouthful of hay and water,
I'll have at her again, and dance till all's blue before I give in."

"My dear fellow," said I, "you must not dance all the evening with the same young lady; you'll
have her brother call upon you the first thing to-morrow morning to know your intentions."

"He shall very soon learn them as far as he is concerned, then," replied Lawless, doubling
his fist. "Let me have him to myself for a quiet twenty minutes, and I'll send him home with
such a face on him that his nearest relations will be puzzled to recognise him for the next
month to come at least. But what do you really mean?"

"That it's not etiquette to go on dancing with one young lady the whole evening; you must ask
some one else."

"Have all the bother to go over again, eh? what a treat! Well, we live and learn; it will require
a few extra glasses of champagne to get the steam up to the necessary height, that's all. And
there they are going down to supper; that's glorious!" and away he bounded to secure Miss Clapperton's
arm, while I offered mine to the turbaned old lady, to compensate for her late alarm.

After supper the dancing was resumed with fresh energy, the champagne having produced its usual
exhilarating effects upon the exhausted frames of the dancers. Notwithstanding my former repulse,
I made a successful attempt to gain Miss Saville's hand for a quadrille, though I saw, or fancied
I saw, the scowl on Mr. Vernor's sour countenance grow deeper as I led her away. My perseverance
was not rewarded by any very interesting results, for my partner, who was either distressingly
shy, or acting under constraint of some kind, made monosyllabic replies to every remark I addressed
to her, and appeared relieved when the termination of the set enabled her to rejoin her grim
protector.

"Of all the disagreeable faces I ever saw, Mr. Vernor's is the most repulsive," said I to Coleman;
"were I a believer in the power of the 'evil eye,' he is just the sort ~124~~of looking person
I should imagine would possess it. I am certain I have never met him before, and yet, strange
to say, there is something which appears familiar to me in his expression, particularly when
he frowns."

"He is a savage-looking old Guy," replied Freddy, "and bullies that sweet girl shockingly,
I can see. I should feel the greatest satisfaction in punching his head for him, but I suppose
it would be hardly the correct thing on so short an acquaintance, and in my father's house
too; eh?"

"Not exactly," replied I, turning away with a smile.

When Lawless made his appearance after supper it was evident by his flushed face, and a slight
unsteadiness in his manner of walking, that he had carried his intentions with regard to the
champagne into effect; and, heedless of my warning, he proceeded to lay violent siege to Miss
Clapperton, to induce her to waltz with him. I was watching them with some little amusement,
for the struggle in the young lady's mind between her sense of the proper, and her desire to
waltz with an Honourable, was very apparent, when I was requested by Mrs. Coleman to go in
search of a cloak appertaining to the turbaned old lady whom I had escorted down to supper,
and who, being delicate in some way or other, required especial care in packing up. Owing to
a trifling mistake of Mrs. Coleman's (who had described a red, worsted shawl as a blue cloth
cloak, which mistake I had to discover and rectify) my mission detained me some minutes. As
I re-entered the ball-room, shawl in hand, I was startled by the crash of something heavy falling,
followed by a shriek from several of the ladies at the upper end of the room; and on hastening
to the scene of action I soon perceived the cause of their alarm.

During my absence Lawless, having succeeded in overcoming Miss Clapperton's scruples, had recommenced
waltzing with the greatest energy; but unfortunately, after going round the room once or twice,
"the pace," as he called it, becoming faster at every turn, the combined effects of the champagne
and the unaccustomed exercise rendered him exceedingly giddy, and just before I entered the
room he had fallen against a small table supporting a handsome China candelabrum, containing
several wax lights, the overthrow of which had occasioned the grand crash which I heard. The
cause of the shriek, however, still remained to be discovered, and a nearer approach instantly
rendered it apparent. One of the wax candles, which had not been extinguished in its fall,
had rolled against the ball-dress of Miss Saville, who happened to ~125~~be seated next the
table, and set it on fire. After making an ineffectual attempt to put it out with her hands,
she became alarmed, and as I approached started wildly up, with the evident intention of rushing
out of the room. Without a moment's hesitation I sprang forward, caught her in my arms, and,
flinging the worsted shawl over her dress, which was just beginning to blaze, enveloped her
in it, and, telling her if she only remained quiet she would be perfectly safe, laid her on
the floor, while I continued to hold the thick shawl tightly down, till, to my very great delight,
I succeeded in extinguishing the flames.

By this time several gentlemen had gathered round us, eager with their advice and offers of
assistance. Having satisfied myself that the danger was entirely over I raised Miss Saville
from the ground, and, making way through the crowd, half led, half carried her to the nearest
sofa. After placing her carefully upon it I left her to the care of Mrs. Coleman and Lucy Markham,
while I sought out the turbaned old lady whose shawl I had so unceremoniously made use of,
and succeeded in making my peace with her, though, I believe, in her own secret breast, she
considered Miss Saville's safety dearly purchased at the expense of her favourite whittle.
As I approached the sofa again, the following words, in the harsh tones of Mr. Vernor's voice,
met my ear:--

"I have ascertained our carriage is here; as soon, therefore, as you feel strong enough to
walk, Clara, my dear, I should advise your accompanying me home; quiet and rest are the best
remedies after such an alarm as this".

"I am quite ready, sir," was the reply, in a faint tone of voice.

"Nay, wait a few minutes longer," said Lucy Markham kindly; "you are trembling from head to
foot even yet."

"Indeed I am quite strong; I have no doubt I can walk now," replied Miss Saville, attempting
to rise, but sinking back again almost immediately from faintness.

"Can I be of any assistance?" inquired I, coming forward.

"I am obliged to you for the trouble you have already taken, sir," answered Mr. Vernor coldly,
"but will not add to it. Miss Saville will be able to proceed with the assistance of my arm
in a few minutes."

After a short pause the young lady again announced her readiness to depart; and, having shaken
hands with Mrs. Coleman and Lucy Markham, turned to leave the ~126~~room, leaning on Mr. Vernor's
arm. As I was standing near the door I stepped forward to hold it open for them, Mr. Vernor
acknowledging my civility by the slightest imaginable motion of the head. Miss Saville, as
she approached me, paused for a moment, as if about to speak, but, apparently relinquishing
her intention, merely bowed, and passed on.

"Well, if it's in that sort of way fashionable individuals demonstrate their gratitude for
having their lives saved, I must say I don't admire it," exclaimed Coleman, who had witnessed
the cool behaviour of Mr. Vernor and his ward; "it may be very genteel, but, were I in your
place, I should consider it unsatisfactory in the extreme, and allow the next inflammable young
lady who might happen to attract a spark in my presence to consume as she pleased, without
interfering; and peace be to her ashes!"

"It was most fortunate that I happened to have that thick shawl in my hand," said I; "in another
minute her whole dress would have been in a blaze, and it would have been next to impossible
to save her. What courage and self-command she showed! she never attempted to move after I
threw the shawl around her, till I told her all danger was over."

"Very grand, all that sort of thing," returned Freddy; "but for my own part I should like to
see a little more feeling. I've no taste for your 'marble maidens'; they always put me in mind
of Lot's wife."

"Eh! Mrs. Lot?" interrupted Lawless, coming up to us: "why was she like me? do you give it
up? Because she got into a pretty pickle--there's a riddle for you. I say, I made a nice mess
of it just now, didn't I? that's what comes of going to these confounded balls. The fact was,"
he continued, sinking his voice, "the filly bolted with me; she took uncommon kindly to the
champagne at supper; in consequence, she was so fresh when we started that I couldn't hold
her; she kept pushing on faster and faster, till at last she was fairly off with me; we did
very well as long as we stuck to the open country, but at last we contrived to get among some
very awkward fences; the first stiff bit of timber we came to she made a rush at, and down
we came, gate--I mean table, candlestick, and all, a regular smash; and to make matters worse,
one of the candles set the other young woman's petticoat alight."

"In fact, after a very severe run, you were nearly being in at the death," suggested Coleman.

~127~~"By Jove, it was nothing to laugh at, though!" remarked Lawless; "she'd have been regularly
cooked, if Prank Fairlegh hadn't put her out when he did, and I should have been tried for
'Unjustifiable Girl-icide,' or 'Maliciously setting fire to a marriageable female,' or some
such thing; and I daresay the young woman wasn't insured anywhere: I should have got into a
pretty mess; it would have been a worse job than breaking Shrimp."

"Frederick, look here!" cried Lucy Markham, who was passing the place where we stood; "see
how Mr. Fairlegh's sleeve is scorched; surely," she continued, turning to me, "your arm must
be injured."

"It begins to feel rather painful," replied I; "but I daresay it's nothing to signify."

"Come to my room," exclaimed Freddy anxiously; "why did you not mention it before?"

"Really I scarcely felt it in the excitement of the moment," returned I; "it can't be of any
consequence."

On removing the coat-sleeve, however, a somewhat considerable burn was apparent, extending
about half way from the wrist to the elbow, and which, the moment it was exposed to the air,
became excessively painful.

Fortunately, among the guests who had not yet taken their departure was the surgeon of the
neighbourhood, who was speedily summoned, and who, after having applied the proper remedies,
recommended me to carry my arm in a sling for a few days, at the end of which time, he assured
me, it would cause me little inconvenience.

As it was, by great good luck, my left arm which was injured, I submitted to this mandate with
tolerable resignation, and returned to the drawing-room to be pitied by the tongues of the
old, and the bright eyes of the young ladies, to an extent which (as at that time of day I
was somewhat addicted to the vice of shyness) was more flattering than agreeable.

It was between two and three o'clock when Lawless and I prepared to take our departure for
the inn at which we were to sleep. Being a lovely night Coleman volunteered to accompany us
for the sake of the walk, telling the servants not to sit up for him, as he had a latch-key
in his pocket--an article, regarding the possession of which a constant civil war was carried
on between his mother and himself, wherein by dint of sundry well-contrived stratagems, and
deeply laid schemes, he invariably gained the victory.

"I tell you what," said Lawless, "the row and bother, ~128~~and the whole kick-up altogether,
has made me alarmingly hungry; the only decent bit of chicken I managed to lay hands on at
supper Di Clapperton ate: precious twist that girl has, to be sure; even after all the ground
she's been over to-night, going a topping pace the whole time too, she wasn't a bit off her
feed; didn't she walk into the ham sandwiches--that's all! I'd rather keep her for a week than
a fortnight, I can tell you; she'd eat her head off in a month, and no mistake. Here, waiter,"
he continued, "have you got anything to eat in the house?"

"Yes, sir, splendid barrel of oysters down by coach last night; capital brown stout, sir--real
Guinness's!"

"That's it, my man," was the rejoinder; "trot 'em out, by all means. Freddy, old boy," he continued,
"come along in with us, and have some."

"Well, I don't mind astonishing the natives for once in a way," replied Freddy; "but it's dreadfully
debauched, eating oysters and drinking porter at this time of day or night, whichever you are
pleased to call it; you'll ruin my morals."

"The devil fly away with your morals, and he won't be overloaded either," was the polite rejoinder;
and in we all went together. The oysters and porter soon made their appearance, and had ample
justice done them; then, as a matter of course, spirits and water and cigars were produced,
"just to prevent the oysters from disagreeing with us"; and we sat talking over old times,
and relating various adventures which had occurred to us since, without troubling our heads
about the flight of minutes. At length Coleman, pulling out his watch, exclaimed: "Past four
o'clock, by the powers! I must be getting to bed--I've got a lease to draw to-morrow, and my
head won't be over-clear as it is."

"Nonsense," replied Lawless; "bed's all a popular delusion; we can't be better off than we
are--sit still." But on Coleman's persisting in his wish to depart, Lawless continued: "Well,
take another glass, and then Frank and I will walk home with you, and see you safe, for it's
my belief that you're getting 'screwed.,' or you'd never think of going to bed". Freddy and
I exchanged glances, for if any of our party were in the condition expressed by the mysterious
word "screwed," it certainly was Lawless himself. After sitting some little time longer, we
once more sallied forth, with the avowed intention of seeing Coleman home. ~129~~

CHAPTER XV -- RINGING THE CURFEW

     "If the bell have any sides the clapper will  find 'em."--
     --Ben Jonson.

     "----ringing changes all our bells hath marr'd,
     Jangled they have and jarr'd
     So long, they're out of tune, and out of frame;

     They seem not now the same.
     Put them in frame anew, and once begin
     To tune them so, that they may chime all in."
     --Herbert.

     "Great then are the mysteries of bell-ringing: and this may
     be said in its praise, that of all devices which men have sought
     out for obtaining distinction by making a noise in the world, it
     is the most harmless."
     --The Doctor.

AS we proceeded through the town Lawless, despite our endeavours to restrain him, chose to
vent his superabundant spirits by performing sundry feats at the expense of the public, which,
had the police regulations of the place been properly attended to, would have assuredly gained
us a sojourn in the watch-house. We had just prevailed upon him to move on, after singing "We
won't go home till morning" under the windows of "the Misses Properprim's Seminary for Young
Ladies," when a little shrivelled old man, in a sort of watchman's white greatcoat, bearing
a horn lantern in his hand, brushed past us, and preceded us down the street at a shuffling trot.

"Holloa!" cried Lawless, "who's that old picture of ugliness? Look what a pace the beggar's
cutting along at! what on earth's he up to?"

"That's the sexton and bell-ringer," returned Coleman; "they keep up the old custom at Hillingford
of ringing the curfew at daybreak, and he's going about it now, I suppose."

"What jolly fun!" said Lawless; "come on, and let's see how the old cock does it; "and, suiting
the action to the word, off he started in pursuit.

"We'd better follow him," said I; "he'll be getting into some mischief or other, depend upon it."

After running a short distance down the street, on turning a corner we found Lawless standing
under a small arched door-way leading into a curious old battlemented tower, which did not
form part of any church or other building of the same date as itself, but stood alone, ~130~~showing,
as it reared its time-worn head high above the more modern dwellings of which the street was
composed, like some giant relic of the days of old. This tower contained a peal of bells, the
fame of which was great in that part of the country, and of which the townspeople were justly
proud.

"All right!" cried Lawless; "the old scarecrow ran in here like a lamp-lighter, as soon he
saw me bowling after him, and has left the key in the lock; so I shall take the liberty of
exploring a little; I've a strong though undeveloped taste for architectural antiquities. Twopence
more, and up goes the donkey! come along!"

So saying, he flung open the door, and disappeared up some steps leading to the interior of
the tower, and, after a moment's hesitation, Coleman and I followed him.

"Don't be alarmed, old boy!" observed Lawless, patting the sexton (who looked frightened out
of his wits at our intrusion) so forcibly on the back as to set him coughing violently; "we're
not come to murder you for the sake of your lantern."

"This gentleman," said Coleman, who by the cunning twinkle of his eye was evidently becoming
possessed by the spirit of mischief, "has been sent down by the Venerable Society of Antiquaries
to ascertain whether the old custom of ringing the Curfew is properly performed here. He is,
in fact, no other than the Noble President of the Society himself. That gentleman (pointing
to me) is the Vice-President, and I, who have the honour of addressing you, am the unworthy
Secretary."

"That's it, Daddy," resumed Lawless, coolly taking up the lantern, and lighting a cigar; "that's
the precise state of the poll, I mean case; so now go to work, and mind you do the trick properly."

Thus adjured, the old man, who appeared completely bewildered by all that was going on, mechanically
took hold of a rope, and began slowly and at stated intervals tolling one of the bells.

"Where are your assistants, my good man?" inquired Coleman after a short pause.--The only answer
was a stare of vacant surprise, and Coleman continued, "Why, you don't mean to say you only
ring one bell, to be sure? oh, this is all wrong:--what do you say, Mr. President?"

"Wrong?" replied Lawless, removing the cigar from his mouth and puffing a cloud of smoke into
the sexton's face, "I should just think it was, most particularly and confoundedly wrong. I'll
tell you what it is, old death's-head and cross-bones; things can't be allowed to go on ~131~~in
this manner. Reform, sir, is wanting, 'the bill, the whole bill, and nothing but the bill'.
I mean to get into Parliament some day, Fairlegh, when I am tired of knocking about, you know--but
that wasn't exactly what I was going to say."

"Suppose we show him the proper way to do it, Mr. President!" suggested Freddy, catching hold
of the rope of one of the bells.

"Off she goes," cried Lawless, seizing another.

"Gentlemen, good gentlemen, don't ring the bells, pray," implored the old man, "you'll raise
the whole town; they are never rung in that way without there's a fire, or a flood, or the
riot act read, or something of that dreadful natur the matter."

But his expostulations were vain. Lawless had already begun ringing his bell in a manner which
threatened to stun us all; and Coleman saying to me, "Come, Frank, we're regularly in for it,
so you may as well take a rope and do the thing handsomely while we are about it; it would
be horridly shabby of you to desert us now," I hastened to follow his example.

Now it must be known that when I arrived at the inn, before supper, owing probably to a combination
of the fatigue of the day, the excitement of the evening and the pain of my arm, I felt somewhat
faint and exhausted, and should have greatly preferred going at once quietly to bed; but, as
I was aware that by so doing I should break up the party I resolved to keep up as well as I
could, and say nothing about it. Finding myself refreshed by the bottled porter, I repeated
the dose several times, and the remedy continuing to prove efficacious, without giving the
thing a thought, I drank more deeply than was my wont, and was a good deal surprised, when
I rose to accompany the others, to discover that my legs were slightly unsteady, and my head
not so clear as usual. Still I had been far from approving the proceedings of my companions,
and had any one told me, when I entered the tower, that I was going to ring all the good people
of Hillingford out of their beds in a fright, I should indignantly have repelled the accusation.
Now, however, owing to the way in which Coleman had requested my assistance, it appeared to
my bewildered senses that I should be meanly deserting my friends the moment they had got into
difficulties, if I were to refuse; but when he used the word "shabby," it settled the business,
and, seizing a rope with my uninjured hand, I began pulling away vigorously.

~132~~"Now, then, you wretched old beggar," shouted Lawless, "don't stand there winking and
blinking like an owl; pull away like bricks, or I'll break your neck for you; go to work, I
say!" and the miserable sexton, with a mute gesture of despair, resuming his occupation, a
peal of four bells was soon ringing bravely out over hill and dale, and making "night horrible"
to the startled inhabitants of Hillingford.

After the lapse of a few minutes a distant shout was heard; then a confused noise of people
running and calling to each other in the streets reached our ears; and lastly the sound of
several persons rapidly approaching the bell-tower became audible.

"We're in for a scrimmage now, I expect," said Lawless, leisurely turning up his sleeves.

"Not a bit of it," replied Freddy; "only leave it to me, and you'll see. All you fellows have
got to do is to hold your tongues, and keep on ringing away till your arms ache; trust me to
manage the thing all right. Lawless, keep your eye on ancient Methuselah there, and if he offers
to say a word just knock him head over heels by accident, will you?"

"Aye, aye, sir," replied Lawless, shaking his fists significantly at the sexton.

At this moment a short fat man with a very red face (who we afterwards learned was no less
a person than the mayor of Hillingford in his public, and a mighty tallow-chandler in his private,
capacity) appeared, attired in a night-cap and greatcoat, and bearing the rest of his wardrobe
under his arm, followed by several of the townspeople, all in a singular state of undress,
and with the liveliest alarm depicted on their countenances. The worthy mayor was so much out
of breath by his unwonted exertions that some seconds elapsed before he could utter a word,
and in the meantime we continued ringing as though our lives depended upon it. At length he
contrived to gasp out a hurried inquiry (hardly audible amidst the clanging of the bells) as
to what was the matter. To this Coleman replied by pointing with one hand to a kind of loop-hole,
of which there were several for the purpose of supplying light and air to the interior of the
tower, while with the other hand he continued ringing away more lustily than before.

"Bless my soul!" exclaimed the mayor, raising himself on tiptoe, and stretching his short neck
in a vain endeavour to peep through the loop-hole, "it must be a fire in West Street!"

~133~~Two or three of the by-standers immediately rushed into the street, calling out, "A fire
in West Street! send for the engines".

At this moment Freddy caught the eye of a tall, gaunt-looking man in a top-boot and plush breeches,
but without coat or waistcoat, and wearing a gold-laced cocked hat on his head, hind part before,
from beneath which peeped out a white cotton night-cap. Having succeeded in attracting the
attention of this worthy, who in his proper person supported the dignity of parish beadle,
Coleman repeated the same stratagem he had so successfully practised upon the mayor, save that
in this instance he pointed to a loop-hole in a completely opposite direction to the one he
had indicated previously. The beadle immediately ran out, muttering ere he did so, "I was certain
sure as they was all wrong".--In another minute we heard him shouting, "It's in Middle Street,
I tell you, there's a fire in Middle Street!"

Coleman now turned to the mayor, who, having somewhat recovered his breath, was evidently preparing
to question the sexton as to the particulars of the affair, and exclaimed in a tone of deep
feeling, "I am surprised to see a person of your high station standing idle at a moment like
this! take a rope, sir, and lend a hand to assist us, if you be a man".

"To be sure, to be sure," was the reply, "anything for the good of the town," and, grasping
an unoccupied rope, he began pulling away with all his might.

The hubbub and confusion now became something unparalleled--people without number kept running
in and out of the tower, giving and receiving all kinds of contradictory orders; volunteers
had been found to assist us, and the whole peal of eight bells was clashing and clanging away
above the tumult, and spreading the alarm farther and wider; men on horseback were arriving
from the country eager to render assistance; women were screaming, dogs barking, children crying;
and, to crown the whole, a violent and angry debate was being carried on by the more influential
members of the crowd as to the quarter in which the supposed conflagration was raging--one
party loudly declaring it was in Middle Street, while the other as vehemently protested it
was in West Street.

The confusion had apparently attained its highest pitch, and the noise was perfectly deafening,
when suddenly a shout was raised, "The engines! clear the way for the engines!" and in another
moment the scampering of the ~134~~crowd in all directions, the sound of horses' feet galloping,
and the rattle of wheels, announced their approach. While all this was going on Coleman had
contrived silently and unperceived to substitute two of the by-standers in my place and his
own, so that Lawless was the only one of our party actually engaged in ringing. Seizing the
moment, therefore, when the shout of "The engines!" had attracted the attention of the loiterers,
he touched him on the shoulder, saying, "Now's our time, come along," and, joining a party
who were going out, we reached the door of the bell-tower unobserved.

The scene which presented itself to our view as we gained the open street would require the
pencil of a Wilkie, or the pen of a Dickens, to describe. The street widened in front of the
bell-tower, so as to make a kind of square. In the centre of the space thus formed stood the
fire-engine drawn by four post-horses, the post-boys sitting erect in their saddles, ready
to dash forward the moment the firemen (who in their green coats faced with red, and shining
leather helmets, imparted a somewhat military character to the scene) should succeed in ascertaining
the place at which their assistance was required. The crowd, which had opened to admit the
passage of the engine, immediately closed round it again in an apparently impenetrable phalanx,
the individual members of which afforded as singular a variety of costume as can well be imagined,
extending from the simple shirt of propriety to the decorated uniforms of the fire-brigade.
As every one who had an opinion to give was bawling it out at the very top of his voice, whilst
those who had none contented themselves by shouting vague sentences devoid of particular meaning
of any kind, the noise and tumult were such as beggared description. There was one short, stout,
red-faced little fellow (for I succeeded in catching sight of him at last) with a mouth of
such fearful dimensions that when it was open the upper half of his head appeared a mere lid,
whose intellects being still partially under the dominion of sleep, evidently imagined himself
at the Election, which had taken place a short time previously, and continued strenuously vociferating
the name of his favourite candidate, though the cry of "Judkins for ever!" did not tend greatly
to elucidate matters. Suddenly, and at the very height of the confusion, the bells ceased ringing,
and for a moment, as if influenced by some supernatural power, the crowd to a man became silent.

The transition from the Babel of sounds I have been ~135~~describing to such perfect tranquillity
was most striking, and impressed one with an involuntary feeling of awe. I was aroused by Coleman,
who whispered in an undertone, "The sexton has peached, depend upon it, and the sooner we're
off the better".

"Yes, and I'll go in style too; so good-bye, and take care of yourselves," exclaimed Lawless,
and, springing forward, before any one was aware of his intention, he forced his way through
the crowd, overturning sundry members thereof in his progress, until he reached the fire-engine,
upon which he seated himself with a bound, shouting as he did so: "Forward, forward! do you
want the place to be burnt to the ground? I'll show you the way; give 'em the spur; faster,
faster, straight on till I tell you to turn--faster, I say!"

The appearance of authority, coupled with energy and decision, will usually control a crowd.
The firemen, completely taken in by Lawless's manner, reiterated his orders; the post-boys
applied both whip and spur vigorously--the horses dashed forward, and, amidst the enthusiastic
cheering of the mob, the engine disappeared like a flash of lightning.

"Well, I give the Honourable George credit for that," exclaimed Coleman, as soon as we had
a little recovered from our surprise at Lawless's elopement with the fire-engine; "it was a
good idea, and he worked it out most artistically; the air with which he waved his hat to cheer
them forward was quite melodramatic. I've seen the thing not half so well done by several of
the greatest generals who ever lived--gallant commanders, whom their men would have followed
through any amount of the reddest possible fire during the whole of Astley's campaigns, that
is, if the commissariat department (consisting of the pot-boy stationed at the side-scenes
with the porter) did its duty efficiently."

"Freddy, they're beginning to come out from the bell-tower," interrupted I; "we shall be called
upon to answer for our misdeeds if we stay much longer; see, that long man in the cocked hat
is coming towards us."

"So he is," returned Coleman; "it strikes me they've found us out; follow me, and try and look
as if it wasn't you as much as possible, will you?" So saying, he began to make his way out
of the crowd unperceived, an example I hastened to follow; but we were not destined to effect
our purpose quite so easily. The point Coleman wished to gain was an arched gateway leading
into a stable-yard, from which he hoped, by a foot-path with which he was acquainted, across
some fields, to reach ~136~~without molestation the inn where I was to sleep. But, in order
to effect this, we were obliged to pass the door of the bell-tower, from which several people,
who appeared angry and excited, were now issuing. The foremost of those, the cock-hatted official
before mentioned, made his way up to us, exclaiming as he did so:--

"Here, you young gen'lmen, just you stop a bit, will yer? His Wusshup, the mayor, seems to
begin to think as somebody's been a making a fool of him."

"A very natural idea," returned Coleman; "I only wonder it never occurred to him before; as
far as my limited acquaintance with him will allow me to judge, the endeavour appears to have
been perfectly successful. I wish you a very good-morning."

"That's all wery fine, but I must trouble yer to come along o' me; his Wusshup wants to speak
to yer," replied the beadle, seizing Coleman by the coat-collar.

"That is a pleasure his 'Wusshup' must contrive to postpone till he has caught me," answered
Freddy, as with a sudden jerk he succeeded in freeing himself from his captor's grasp, while,
almost at the same moment, he dealt him a cuff on the side of the head which sent him reeling
back to the door of the bell-tower, where encountering the mayor, who had just made his appearance,
he came headlong to the ground, dragging that illustrious functionary down with him in a frantic
endeavour to save himself. Profiting by the confusion that ensued Freddy and I sprang forward,
darted through the archway, and, making the best use of our legs, soon found ourselves in the
open fields, and quite beyond the reach of pursuit.

CHAPTER XVI -- THE ROMAN FATHER

          "If a dream should come in now to make you afear'd,
          With a wind-mill on his head, and bells at his beard;
          Would you straight wear your spectacles here at your toes,
          And your boots on your brows, and your spurs on your nose?"
          --Ben Jonson.

          "No-----he
          With more than Roman fortitude is ever
          First at the board in this unhappy process
          Against his last and only son."
          --The Two Foscari.

DREAMS, ye strange mysterious visions of the soul! Ye wild and freakish gambolings of the spirit,
freed from the incubus of matter, and unfettered by the control of reason, of what fantastic
caprices are ye the originators ~137~~--what caricatures of the various features of our waking
life do ye not exhibit to us, ludicrous and distorted indeed, but still preserving through
their most extravagant exaggerations a wayward and grotesque likeness to the realities they
shadow forth! And stranger even than your most strange vagaries, is the cool matter-of-fact
way in which our sleeping senses calmly accept and acquiesce in the medley of impossible absurdities
you offer to their notice. We conceive ourselves, for instance, proceeding along a green lane
on horseback; the animal upon which we are mounted becomes suddenly, we know and care not how,
a copper tea-kettle, and we ride quietly on without testifying, or even feeling, the least
symptom of surprise, as though the identity of hackneys and tea-kettles was a fact generally
recognised in natural history; the kettle perhaps addresses us, it converses with us on all
the subjects which interest us most deeply; and we discuss our various hopes and fears, joys
and sorrows, loves and hates, with no other sentiment, save a degree of pleasure at the very
sensible and enlightened views which the utensil takes of the matter. I might multiply examples,
ad infinitum, to illustrate my meaning; but to those who are familiar with the phenomena alluded
to one instance will suffice; while those who have never experienced them will probably, at
all events, take refuge in disbelief, and lament themselves with a self-satisfying sorrow over
the fresh proof it adduces of the truth of the Israelitish monarch's aphorism, that "all men
are liars ".

Be this as it may, my sleep (when, at length, after the excitement I had undergone, sleep condescended
to visit me, which was not until, contrary to all the rules of good breeding, Somnus had allowed
me to call upon him repeatedly in vain) was disturbed by all sorts and kinds of visions. Lawlesses
innumerable, attended by shoals of top-booted shrimps--the visionary shrimp being a sort of
compromise between the boy so called and the real article--drove impossible dog-carts drawn
by quadrupeds whose heads and necks bore a striking resemblance to the waltz-loving Diana Clapperton,
up and down ball-rooms, to the unspeakable terror of squadrons of turbaned old ladies. Deafening
peals of bells, rung by troops of Freddy ColeMEN (which I take to be the correct plural of
Coleman), were rousing night-capped nations from their slumbers in alarm, to whom flocks of
frightened mayors were bleating forth bewildered orders, which resulted in perplexing everybody;
and through it all, mixed up and combined with everything, the pale interesting face of Clara
Saville, ~138~~characterised by an expression of the deepest sadness, gazed at me reproachfully
out of its large trustful eyes, and rendered me intensely miserable. From dreams such as these
I was not sorry to be aroused by the sun shining brightly through my window-shutter; and, on
consulting my watch, I found, somewhat to my surprise, that I had slept till nearly midday.

On reaching the breakfast-room my first inquiry was for Lawless, in reply to which, I was informed
that he had returned (on the fire-engine) about half an hour after I came in; that immediately
upon his arrival he had called for unlimited supplies of rum, lemons, and other suitable ingredients,
wherewith he manufactured a monster brewing of punch in a washing-tub for the benefit of the
firemen, with whom he had somehow contrived to establish the most amicable relations; he then
assisted in discussing the beverage he had prepared, which appeared to produce no particular
effects until, wishing to rise to return thanks when they drank his health, he suddenly lost
his balance, and being carried to bed by the waiter and boots, had not yet reappeared. Not
liking to disturb him, I breakfasted alone, and then strolled out to look after Freddy. I found
him sitting in the study, busily engaged in drawing the lease he had mentioned to us the night
before. On seeing me, however, he sprang up, and, shaking me by the hand, inquired how I was
after our adventures.

"That's all right, so far," was his reply to my assurance that my injured arm was going on
favourably, and that I felt no other ill effects of any kind. "I tell you what," he continued,
"my governor's in no end of a rage about the bell-ringing affair: that old fool of a mayor
recognised me it seems, and vows vengeance, threatening to do all sorts of things to me, and
the governor swears he'll aid and abet him in anything he chooses to do. They had better take
care what they are at, or they may find I'm not to be bullied with impunity; but come along
into the drawing-room; I don't mind facing the elders now I've got you to support me; and really,
what between my father's accusations and my mother's excuses, it's as good as a play."

"You're abominably undutiful, Master Fred," replied I, as I turned to follow him.

On reaching the drawing-room we found Mr. Coleman standing with his arms folded with an air
of dignified severity, so exactly in the centre of the hearth-rug that he seemed to belong
to the pattern. Seated in a low arm-chair on the right-hand side of the fireplace was Mrs.
~139~~Coleman, apparently absorbed in the manufacture of some mysterious article of knitting,
which constantly required propitiating by the repetition of a short arithmetical puzzle, without
which it would by no means allow itself to be created. At her feet, engaged in the Sisyphian
labour of remedying the effects of "a great fall" in worsteds, scissors, and other "articles
for the work-table," knelt Lucy Markham, looking so piquante and pretty, that I could not help
wondering how my friend Freddy contrived to keep himself heart-whole, if, as I imagined, he
was thrown constantly into her society. The party was completed by a large, sleek, scrupulously
white cat, clearly a privileged individual, who sat bolt upright in the chair opposite Mrs.
Coleman, regarding the company with an air of intense self-satisfaction, and evidently considering
the whole thing got up for her express delectation. Mr. Coleman received me with pompous civility,
hoping I felt no ill effects from my exertions in the earlier part of the evening--taking care
to lay a marked emphasis on the word earlier. Lucy acknowledged my presence by a smile and
a slight inclination of the head, but without altering her position. Worthy Mrs. Coleman, however,
jumped up and shook hands warmly with me, thereby providing Lucy with full employment for the
next ten minutes in picking up the whole machinery of the knitting.

"Very glad indeed to see you, Mr. Lawless," commenced Mrs. Coleman.

"It's Fairlegh, mother," interposed Freddy.

"Yes, my dear, yes, I knew it was Mr. Fairlegh, only I'm always making a mistake about names;
but I never forget a face I have once seen; and I'm sure I'm not likely to forget Mr. Fairlegh's
after the noble way in which he behaved last night" (here Mr. Coleman turned away with a kind
of ironical growl, and began caressing the cat). "I declare when I saw him setting Clara Saville's
dress on fire, so nicely made as it was too----"

"My dear aunt," remonstrated Lucy, "it was Mr. Lawless who threw down the candelabrum, and
set Clara's frock alight."

"Yes, my love, I know, I saw it all, my dear; and very kind it was of him, I mean afterwards,
in speaking to me of it; he said he was so very sorry about it--and he called it something
funny, poor young man--'no end of a something or other '------"

"Sell," suggested Freddy.

"Oh yes, that was it, no end of a sell. What did he mean by that, my dear?"

~140~~"I strongly disapprove," observed Mr. Coleman (who still continued stroking the cat as
he spoke, which process he performed by passing his hand deliberately from her head, along
her back, to the very tip of her tail, which he retained each time in his grasp for a moment,
ere he recommenced operations), "I highly disapprove of the absurd practice, so common with
young men of the present day, of expressing their ideas in that low and incomprehensible dialect,
termed 'slang,' which, in my opinion, has neither wit nor refinement to redeem its vulgarity,
and which effectually prevents their acquiring that easy yet dignified mode of expression which
should characterise the conversation of the true gentleman. In my younger days we took Burke
for our model; the eloquence of Pitt and Fox gave the tone to society; and during our hours
of relaxation we emulated the polished wit of Sheridan; but it is a symptom of that fearful
levelling system which is one of the most alarming features of the present age; instead of
striving to raise and exalt------"

"Really, my dear Mr. Coleman, I beg your pardon for interrupting you," cried his wife, "but
this is the second time you've lifted my poor little cat off her hind legs by her tail; and
though she's as good as gold, and lets you do just what you like to her, it can't be pleasant
for her, I'm sure."

The only reply to this, if reply it can be called, was an angry "Psha!" and, turning on his
heel, Mr. Coleman strode with great dignity towards the window, though the effect was considerably
marred by his stumbling against an ottoman which stood in the way, and hurting his shin to
an extent which entailed rubbing, albeit a sublunary and un-Spartan operation, as a necessary
consequence. A pause ensued, which at length became so awkward that I was about to hazard some
wretched commonplace or other, for the sake of breaking the silence, when Mrs. Coleman addressed
me with:--

"You'll take some luncheon, Mr. Lawless, I'm sure. Freddy, ring the bell!"

"He'll be ready enough to do that," growled Mr. Coleman; "you could not have asked a fitter
person."

"Of course he will, a dear fellow," replied Mrs. Coleman; "he's always ready to oblige anybody."

"I disapprove greatly of such extreme facility of disposition," observed Mr. Coleman; "it lays
a young man open to every temptation that comes in his way; and, for want of a proper degree
of firmness and self-respect, he gets led into all kinds of follies and excesses."

~141~~"Now, my dear Mr. Coleman," returned his wife, "I cannot bear to hear you talk in that
way; you are too hard upon poor Freddy and his young friends; I'm certain they meant no harm;--if
they did ring the bells by way of a joke, I daresay they had drunk rather more champagne than
was prudent, and scarcely knew what they were about; and really all they seem to have done
was to make people get up a little sooner than usual, and that is rather a good thing than
otherwise, for I'm sure if you did but know the trouble I have sometimes in getting the maids
out of bed in the morning--and that lazy fine gentleman of a footman too, he's just as bad.--Why,
what's the matter now?"

"I really am astonished at you, Mrs. Coleman," exclaimed her husband, walking hurriedly across
the room--although this time he took good care to avoid the ottoman, "encouraging that boy
of yours in such scandalous and ungentlemanly proceedings as those he was engaged in last night!
No harm, indeed! I only hope (that is, I don't hope it at all, for he deserves to be punished,
and I wish he may) that the laws of his country may think there's no harm in it. Mr. Dullmug,
the mayor, intends, very properly in my opinion, to appeal to those laws; that is a thing,
I am proud to say, no Englishman ever does in vain. You may smile, sir," he continued, detecting
Freddy in the act of telegraphing to me his dissent from the last doctrine propounded. "You
may ridicule your old father's opinion, but you'll find it no laughing matter to clear yourself,
and justify your conduct, in a court of justice. They may bring it in conspiracy, for I daresay
you plotted it all beforehand; they may bring it in riot and illegal assembly, for there were
three of you engaged in it; they may bring it in treason, for you incited his majesty's subjects
to commit a broach of the peace, and interfered with the proper officers in the discharge of
their duty: 'pon my word I don't know that they may not bring it in murder, for the poor child
that had the measles in the town died between six and seven o'clock this morning, and no doubt
the confusion had something to do with accelerating its death. So, sir, if you're not hanged,
you're certain to be transported; and don't ask me to assist you; I've lived by supporting
the law for fifty years, and I'm not going in my old age to lend my countenance to those who
break it, and set it at nought, though my own son be one of them. I have spoken my mind plainly,
Mr. Fairlegh, more so perhaps than I should have done before a guest ~142~~in my own house,
but it is a matter upon which I feel deeply. I wish you good-morning, sir." So saying, he turned
away, and stalked majestically out of the room, closely followed, not to say imitated, by the
cat, who held her tail erect, so as to form a right angle with the line of her back, and walked
with a hypocritical air of meek dignity and chastened self-approval.

"That's what I call pleasant and satisfactory," exclaimed Freddy, after a pause, during which
each member of the party exchanged glances of consternation with somebody else. "Who would
ever have imagined the possibility of the governor's turning cantankerous--assuming the character
of the Roman father upon the shortest possible notice, and thirsting to sacrifice his son on
the altar of the outraged laws of his country! What an interesting victim I shall make, to
be sure! Lucy must lend me that wreath of roses she looked so pretty in last night, to wear
at the fatal ceremony. And my dear mother shall stand near, tearing out those revered locks
of hers by handfuls." (The reader should perhaps be informed that Mrs. Coleman rejoiced in
a false front of so open and ingenuous a nature, that from its youth upwards it never could
have been guilty of deceiving any one.) "May I ring and tell John to have all the carving knives
sharpened? it would be more satisfactory to my feelings not to be slaughtered with a blunt weapon."

"Don't talk in that way, Frederick," cried Mrs. Coleman. "I'm sure your father would never
think of doing such dreadful things; but I believe you're only making fun of him, which isn't
at all right of you. I'm not a bit surprised at his being angry with you, when you know how
steady he always says he was as a young man (not that I ever quite believe it, though); he
never went ringing bells, however late he might stay out at night, that I heard of (though
I should never have known it if he had, very likely). I don't myself see any great harm in
it, you know, Mr. Fairless, particularly after your saving poor Clara Saville, and Freddy from
drowning, when you were all boys together--indeed I shall always have the highest opinion of
you for it, only I wish you had never done it at all, either of you, because of making your
father so angry, you I mean, Frederick."

"Have you received any account of Miss Saville this morning?" inquired I, anxious to change
the conversation; for I could see that Freddy, despite his assumed indifference, was a good
deal annoyed at the serious light in which the old gentleman seemed to look upon our ~143~~escapade.
"I should be glad to know that she was none the worse for all the alarm she must have suffered."

"No, we have not heard anything of her," replied Lucy. "Should we not send to inquire after
her, aunt?"

"Certainly, my dear Lucy; I am glad you have reminded me; I always meant to send, only all
this has put it out of my head."

"Now, Frank, there's a splendid chance for you," exclaimed Freddy; "nothing can be more correct
than for you to call and make the proper inquiries in person; and then if old Stiff-back should
happen not to be at home, and you can contrive to get let in, and the young lady be not actually
a stone----"

"Indeed, Frederick, she is nothing of the kind," interrupted Lucy warmly; "if you only knew
her, you would be astonished to find what deep warm feelings are concealed beneath that calm
manner of hers; but she has wonderful self-control. I could see last night how much she was
grieved at being obliged to go away without having thanked Mr. Fairlegh for saving her."

"Give her a chance to repair the error to-day, by all means, then," said Freddy; "and if you
should succeed in gaining an interview, and she really is anxious to do a little bit of the
grateful, and old Vernor does not kick you downstairs, I shall begin to regret that I didn't
extinguish her myself."

"I really have a great mind to follow your advice," returned I; "it is only proper to inquire
after the young lady, and they need not let me in unless they like."

"If you should see her, Mr. Lawlegh," said Mrs. Coleman, "tell her from me how very much vexed
I was about the candelabrum being thrown down and setting fire to her dress; it was made of
the very best Dresden china, and must have cost (only it was a present, which made it all the
more valuable, you know) fifteen or sixteen guineas; and I'm sure I wonder, now I come to think
of it, why it did not flare up and burn her to death; but you were so quick and clever, and
entirely spoilt that beautiful whittle of old Mrs. Trottles, with the greatest presence of
mind; and I'm sure we ought all to be thankful to you for it; and we shall be delighted to
see her when she has quite recovered it, tell her, particularly Lucy, who is nearest her own
age, you know."

"Let me see," said Freddy, musing; "Mrs. Trottles must be seventy-two if she is a day; 'pon
my word, Lucy, you're the youngest-looking woman of your age I ever ~144~~met with; if I had
not heard my mother say it myself, I'd never have believed it."

"Believed what, Freddy? What have I said?" asked Mrs. Coleman.

"That Lucy was Mrs. Trottles' most intimate friend, because she was nearest her own age," returned
Freddy.

"No such thing, sir; I said, or I meant to say--only you are so tiresome with your jokes, that
you puzzle one--that Lucy being her own age, I mean Clara's, Mr. Fairless was to tell her how
very glad she would be--and very natural it is for young people to like young people--to see
her; and I hope you'll remember to tell her all I have said exactly, Mr. Fairless, for I'm
always anxious to try to please and amuse her, she's so very dull and stupid, poor thing!"

To perform this utter impossibility I faithfully pledged myself; and, taking a hasty farewell
of the ladies, hurried out of the room to conceal a fit of laughter which had been gradually
becoming irrepressible.

"Laugh away, old boy," cried Freddy, who had accompanied me into the hall; "no wonder I'm an
odd fellow, for, as Pat would say, my mother was one before me, and no mistake. I wish you
luck with the fair Clara--not that you'll see her--old Vernor will take care of that somehow
or other; even if he's not at home, he'll have locked her up safely before he went out, depend
upon it."

"You do not mean that in sober earnest?" said I.

"Perhaps not actually in fact," replied Freddy, "but in effect I believe he does. Clara tells
Lucy she never sees any one."

"She shall see me to-day, if I can possibly contrive it," said I. "Oh for the good old days
of chivalry, when knocking the guardian on the head, and running away with the imprisoned damsel
afterwards, would have been accounted a very moral and gentlemanlike way of spending the morning!"

"Certainly, they had a pleasant knack of simplifying matters, 'those knights of old,'" replied
Freddy; "but it's not a line of business that would have suited me at all; in balancing their
accounts, the kicks always appear to have obtained a very uncomfortable preponderance over
the halfpence; besides, the causa belli was a point on which their ideas were generally in
a deplorable state of confusion: when one kills a man, it's as well to have some slight notion
why one does it; and the case comes home to one still more closely if it's somebody else who's
going to kill you."

"You're about right there, Master Freddy," said I, smiling as I shook hands with him, and quitted
the house. %

CHAPTER XVII -- THE INVISIBLE GIRL

~145~~

          "Aye, that's a dolt indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of
          his horse."
          --Merchant of Venice.

          "Yond young fellow swears he will speak with you. What's
          to be said to him? He's fortified against any denial."
          --Twelfth Night.

          "Be subject to no sight but mine; invisible
          To every eyeball else."
          --Tempest.

ON arriving at the inn, to which I was forced to return to order my horse, I perceived Lawless's
tandem waiting at the door, surrounded by a crowd of admiring rustics, with Shrimp, his arms
folded with an air of nonchalant defiance, which seemed to say, "Oh! run over me by all means
if you choose," stationed directly in front of the leader's head. On entering the parlour I
found Lawless busily engaged in pulling on a pair of refractory boots, and looking very hot
and red in the face from the exertion.

"How are you, Fairlegh? how are you? That stupid fool has made 'em too tight for anybody but
Tom Thumb, and be hanged to him. Ever read fairy tales, Fairlegh? I did when I was a little
shaver, and wore cock-tailed petticoats--all bare legs and bustle--'a Highland lad my love
was born'; that style of thing, rather, you know; never believed 'em, though: wasn't to be
done even then; eh? Well, this is a puzzler; I can't get 'em on. Where's the fellow they call
Boots? Here, you sir, come and see if you can pull on these confounded namesakes of yours,
and I'll tip you half a crown if you succeed; cheaper than breaking one's back, eh?"

"Where are you off to, supposing you should ever get those boots on?" asked I.

"Eh? I am going to call on the young woman I set alight at the hop last night, and tell her
I'm quite down in the mouth about it; explain that I didn't go to do it; that it was quite
a mistake, and all owing to the other young woman's being so fresh, in fact; and then offer
to rig her out again, start her in new harness from bridle ~146~~crupper, all at my own expense,
and that will be finishing off the affair handsomely, won't it?"

"I should advise your leaving out that last piece of munificence," replied I; "she might think
it an insult." "An insult, eh? Oh, if she's so proud as all that comes to I'd better stay away
altogether; I shall be safe to put my foot into it there, a good deal faster than I have into
these villainous boots--that's it, Sampson, another pull such as that and the deed's done,"
added Lawless, patting the human Boots on the back encouragingly.

"I was just going to ride over to inquire after Miss Saville myself," said I.

"That's the very thing, then," was the reply. "I'll drive you there instead; it will be better
for your scorched fin (pointing to my injured arm) than jolting about outside a horse, and
you shall tell me what to say as we go along; you seem to understand the sex, as they call
the petticoats, better than I do, and can put a fellow up to a few of the right dodges. I only
wish they were all horses, and then I flatter myself I should not require any man's advice
how to harness, drive, train, or physic them."

"The ladies are infinitely indebted to you," replied I, as I ran upstairs to prepare for our
expedition.

A drive of rather less than an hour and a half, during which the thorough-breds performed in
a way to delight every lover of horseflesh, brought us to the park gate of Barstone Priory,
where Mr. Vernor resided. After winding in and out for some half-mile amongst groups of magnificent
forest-trees, their trunks partially concealed by plantations of rare and beautiful shrubs,
a sudden turn of the road brought us in front of the Priory--an ancient, venerable-looking
pile of building, which had evidently, as its name implied, once belonged to some religious
community. The alterations it had undergone, in order to adapt it to its present purpose, had
been carried out with more taste and skill than are usually met with in such cases. The garden,
with its straight terrace-walks and brilliant flower-beds, contrasted well with the grey stone
of which the building was composed, while the smooth-shaven lawn, with an old, quaintly carved
sundial in the centre, and, above all, the absence of any living creature whatsoever, imparted
an air of severe formality to the scene, which, as the eye rested upon it, seemed to realise
all one had read of monastic discipline and seclusion; and one half expected to see a train
of dark-veiled nuns or sandalled friars winding slowly forth from the hall-door.

~147~~"What a singular old shop!" exclaimed my companion, regarding the structure with a look
of displeased criticism; "wretched little windows as ever I saw; they must be all in the dark
inside on a dull day, and every day would be dull if one lived there, I should think. It would
puzzle a fellow to tell whether that building was clerical or lay, fish or flesh; a castle
that had taken a serious turn, or a church out for the day in plain clothes; how people can
like to live in such a mouldy, rusty, musty old barn, that looks as full of ghosts as a cheese
is of mites, I can't conceive."

"There certainly is an appearance of gloom and loneliness about the place," replied I; "but
I think it is chiefly owing to the absence of any living object--a herd of deer in the park,
a group of children and dogs playing on the lawn--anything to give animation to the picture,
would be the greatest improvement."

"I should just think it would," returned Lawless. "Fancy a pack of hounds under that jolly
old oak yonder, the huntsman and whips in their bits of pink, and a field of about fifty of
the right sort of fellows on thorough-breds, dawdling about, talking to one another, or taking
a canter over the turf, just to settle themselves in the saddle; that would be a sight to make
old Vernor look a little better pleased than he did last night, sing out for his boots and
buckskins, and clap his leg over the first four-footed beast that came in his way, even if
it should happen to be the old cow."

"I hope I may be there to see if he does," replied I laughing.

On inquiring whether Mr. Vernor was at home we were answered in the affirmative by a tall,
gaunt-looking man-servant, with a stern, not to say surly, countenance, the expression of which
was in some degree contradicted by a pair of quick, restless little grey eyes, which in any
other face one should have said twinkled merrily beneath the large grizzled eyebrows which
o'ershadowed them.

Having, at Lawless's request, procured a nondescript hobbledehoy of indefinite character to
stand at the horses' heads (we had left Shrimp behind, by common consent, that he might be
no restraint on our conversation), he conducted us across the hall into a kind of morning-room,
fitted up with oak panels, and with a very handsome old carved oak chimney-piece reaching half-way
to the ceiling. He was leaving the room to inform his master of our arrival when Lawless stopped
him by saying:--

"Here, just wait a bit; tell the young woman--that is ~148~~to say, don't tell her anything;
but I mean, let Miss Saville be made aware (I see you're awake, for all your long face), put
her up to our being here; don't you know, eh?" "Tip him," whispered I.

"Eh, stop a bit; you're a very honest fellow, and it's right to reward faithful servants; and--you
understand all about it, eh?"

One portion of this somewhat incoherent address he did understand, evidently, for without altering
a muscle of his face, he put out his hand, took the money, and left the room with the same
unconscious air of imperturbability which he had maintained throughout the whole conference.
"Good move that, eh?" exclaimed Lawless, as soon as the door was closed; "that'll fetch her
out of her hole, for a guinea. Mind, I shall do my best to cut you out, Master Frank. I don't
see why I haven't a right to quite as large a share of her gratitude as you have, for if I
hadn't set her on fire you'd never have put her out; so, in fact, she owes it all to me--don't
you see?"

"I'm afraid there's a little sophistry in that argument," replied I; "but we had better wait
till we find whether we shall have the opportunity afforded us of trying our powers of fascination
before we quarrel about the effects to be produced by them. I cannot say I feel over sanguine
as to the success of your somewhat original negotiation with that raw-boned giant in the blue
plush sine qua nons, as Coleman calls them."

"Time will show," rejoined Lawless, turning towards the door, which opened at this moment to
admit Mr. Vernor; and, alas! him only.

His reception of us, though perfectly easy and well-bred, was anything but agreeable or encouraging.
He answered our inquiries after Miss Saville's health by informing us, cursorily, that no ill
effects had ensued from her alarm of the previous evening. He received Lawless's apologies
with a calm, half-ironical smile, and an assurance that they were not required; and he slightly
thanked me for my obliging assistance in words perfectly unexceptionable in themselves, but
which, from a peculiarity in the tone of voice more than anything else, impressed one with
a sense of insult rather than of compliment. Still, in compliance with certain expressive looks
from Lawless, who evidently was most unwilling to be convinced of the failure of his little
bit of diplomacy, I used every means I could think of to prolong the visit. I first admired,
then criticised, the carving of the chimney-piece; I dived into a ~149~~book of prints which
lay upon the table, and prosed about mezzo-tint and line engraving, and bored myself, and of
course my hearers also, till our powers of endurance were taxed almost beyond their strength;
and, at last, having completely exhausted not only my small-talk, but my entire stock of conversation
of all sorts and sizes, I was regularly beaten to a stand-still, and obliged to take refuge
in alternately teasing and caressing a beautiful black and tan setter, which seemed the only
member of the party thoroughly sociable and at his ease.

At length it became apparent even to Lawless himself that the visit could not be protracted
longer, and we accordingly rose and took our leave, our host (I will not call him entertainer,
for it would be a complete misnomer) preserving the same tone of cool and imperturbable politeness
to the very last. On reaching the hall we encountered the surly old footman, whose features
looked more than ever as if they had been carved out of some very hard species of wood.

"I say, old boy, where's the young lady, eh?" exclaimed Lawless, as soon as he caught sight
of him; "she never showed so much as the tip of her nose in the room; how was that, eh?"

"If she com'd into the room when gentlemen was calling, master would eat her without salt,"
was the reply.

"Which fact you were perfectly aware of when you took my tip so quietly just now?"

"In course I was, why should I not be?"

"Done brown for once, by Jove!" muttered Lawless as he left the hall; "a raw-boned old rogue,
I'll be even with him some day, though----, we shall see, eh?"

While Lawless was busily engaged in settling some of the harness which had become disarranged
the old footman came up to me and whispered, "Make use of your eyes as you drive through the
park, and mayhap you'll spy some game worth looking after, young gentleman".

Surprised at this unexpected address, I turned to question him as to its meaning, but in vain;
for no sooner had he finished speaking than he re-entered the hall and shut the door behind him.

What could he intend me to understand, thought I; he evidently wished to imply something beyond
the simple meaning of the words "game worth looking after"; could he mean to----no! the thing
is impossible--"absurd!" exclaimed I, as a wild idea shot through my brain and I felt myself
colour like a girl.

~150~~"What's absurd?" exclaimed Lawless, gathering up the reins as he spoke; "what are you
talking about? why, you're ranting and staring about you like a play-actor; what's the matter
with you, eh, Frank?"

"Nothing," replied I, taking my seat; "don't drive too fast through the park, I want to look
at the view as we go along."

In obedience to the gaunt domestic's mysterious injunction I made the best use of my eyes as
we retraced our way through the park, and for my pains had the satisfaction of beholding a
solitary rabbit, half-hidden under a dock-leaf, and sundry carrion crows.

CHAPTER XVIII -- THE GAME IN BARSTONE PARK

          "The fringed curtains of thine eye advance and say what
          thou see'st yond."
          --Tempest.

          "Accost, Sir Andrew, accost."
          --Twelfth Night.

          "Let us go thank him and encourage him.
          My Guardian's rough and envious disposition
          Strikes me at heart--Sir you have well deserved."
          --As You Like It.

WE had arrived within a quarter of a mile of the gate, and I had just settled to my thorough
dissatisfaction that the old footman must be a humorist, and had diverted himself by making
a kind of April-fool out of season of me, when, through the trees, which at that spot stretched
their huge branches across the road so as to form a complete arch, I fancied I perceived the
flutter of a woman's dress; and, in another moment, a turn in the drive disclosed to my view
a female form, which I instantly recognised as that of Clara Saville.

Without a minute's hesitation I sprang to the ground before Lawless had time to pull up, and,
saying to him, "I shall be back again directly; wait for me, there's a good fellow," I hastily
entered a winding path, which led through the trees to the spot where I had seen the young
lady, leaving my companion mute from astonishment. Up to this moment, acting solely from a
sort of instinctive impulse which made me wish to see and speak to Miss Saville, I had never
considered the light in which my proceedings might appear to her. What right, I now asked myself,
had I to intrude upon her privacy, and, ~151~~as it were, force my company upon her, whether
she wished it or not? Might she not look upon it as an impertinent intrusion? As these thoughts
flitted through my brain I slackened my pace; and had it not been for very shame could have
found in my heart to turn back again. This, however, I resolved not to do; having committed
myself so far, I determined to give her an opportunity of seeing me, and, if she should show
any intention of avoiding me, it would then be time enough to retrace my steps and leave her
unmolested. With this design I proceeded slowly up the path, stopping now and then as if to
admire the view, until a turn of the walk brought me in sight of a rustic bench, on which was
seated the young lady I had before observed. As soon as she perceived me she rose and turned
towards me, disclosing, as she did so, the graceful form and lovely features of my partner
of the preceding evening. The morning costume, including a most irresistible little cottage-bonnet
lined with pink, was even more becoming to her than the ball-dress; and when, instead of the
cold air of constraint which had characterised her manner of the previous evening, she advanced
to meet me with a slight blush and the most bewitching smile of welcome that ever set man's
heart beating, I thought I had never seen anything so perfectly beautiful before.

"I must ask your forgiveness for venturing thus to intrude upon you, Miss Saville," began I,
after we had exchanged salutations; "but the temptation of learning from your own lips that
you had sustained no injury was too strong to be resisted, more particularly after the disappointment
of finding you were from home when I did myself the pleasure of calling on Mr. Vernor to inquire
after you."

"Nay, there is nothing to forgive," replied Miss Saville; "on the contrary," she continued,
blushing slightly, "I was anxious to see you, in order to thank you for the eminent service
you rendered me yesterday evening."

"Really it is not worth mentioning," returned I; "it is only what any other gentleman in the
room would have done had he been in my situation; it was good Mrs. Trottle's shawl saved you;
I could have done nothing without that."

"You shall not cheat me out of my gratitude in that way," replied she, smiling; "the shawl
would have been of little avail had it not been so promptly and energetically applied; and,
as for the other gentlemen, they ~152~~certainly were very ready with their offers of assistance
after the danger was over. I am afraid," she continued, looking down, "you must have repented
the trouble you had taken when you found what a thankless person you had exerted yourself to save."

"Indeed, no such idea crossed my mind for an instant; the slight service I was able to render
you was quite repaid by the pleasure of knowing that I had been fortunate enough to prevent
you from sustaining injury," said I.

"You are very kind," was the reply; "but I can assure you I have been exceedingly annoyed by
imagining how wholly destitute of gratitude you must have considered me!"

"Lucy Markham told me such would be the case," replied I, smiling.

"Did she?--a dear warm-hearted girl--she always does me justice!" exclaimed Miss Saville, as
she raised her beautiful eyes, sparkling with animation, to my face. She then, for the first
time, observed my injured arm, and added quickly, "but you wear your arm in a sling; I hope--that
is--I am afraid---I trust it was not injured last night!"

"It is a mere trifle," replied I; "he wristband of my sleeve caught fire, and burnt my arm,
but it is nothing of any consequence, I can assure you."

"I am sure you must have thought me sadly ungrateful," returned my companion; "you exerted
yourself, and successfully, to save my life, receiving a painful injury in so doing, whilst
I left the house without offering you the thanks due even to the commonest service imaginable."

"You were not then aware that I had burnt my arm, remember; and forgive me for adding," returned
I (for I saw that she was really distressed at the idea of my considering her wanting in gratitude),
"that it did not require any unusual degree of penetration to perceive that you were not altogether
a free agent."

"No, indeed," replied she, eagerly catching at the idea, "Mr. Vernor, my guardian--he always
means to be very kind I am sure; but," she added, sinking her voice, "he is so very particular,
and he speaks so sternly sometimes, that--I know it is very silly--but I cannot help feeling
afraid of him. I mention this, sir, to prevent your judging me too harshly, and I trust to
your generosity not to take any unfair advantage of my openness; and now," she added, fixing
her large eyes upon me with an imploring look which would have melted the toughest old anchorite
~153~~that ever chewed grey peas, "you will not think me so very ungrateful, will you?"

"My dear Miss Saville," replied I, "let me beg you to believe I never dreamt of blaming you
for a moment; on the contrary, I pay you no compliment, but only mention the simple truth,
when I tell you that I admired your behaviour throughout the whole affair exceedingly; your
presence of mind and self-control were greater than, under the circumstances, I could have
supposed possible." As she made no reply to this, but remained looking steadfastly on the ground,
with her head turned so as to conceal her face, I continued--"I hope it is unnecessary for
me to add, that you need not entertain the slightest fear of my making any indiscreet use of
the frankness with which you have done me the honour of speaking to me--but I am forgetting
half my business," added I, wishing to set her at ease again, "I am charged with all sorts
of kind messages to you from good Mrs. Coleman and Miss Markham; I presume you would wish me
to tell them I have had the pleasure of ascertaining that you have sustained no ill effects
from your alarm."

"Oh yes, by all means," replied Miss Saville, looking up with a pleased expression, "give my
kind love to them both, and tell dear Lucy I shall come over to see her as soon as ever I can."

"I will not intrude upon you longer, then, having delivered my message," said I; "I have kept
my companion, the gentleman who was so unfortunate as to overturn the candelabrum, waiting
an unconscionable time already; he is very penitent for his offence; may I venture to relieve
his mind by telling him that you forgive him?"

"Pray do so," was the reply; "I never bear malice; besides, it was entirely an accident, you
know. How thoroughly wretched he seemed when he found what he had done; frightened as I was,
I could scarcely help laughing when I caught a glimpse of his face, he looked so delightfully
miserable," added she, with a merry laugh. After a moment's pause she continued--"I'm afraid
Mr. Vernor will think I am lost, if he should happen to inquire after me, and I'm not forthcoming".

"Surely," said I, "he can never be so unreasonable as to blame you for such a trifle as remaining
five minutes too long. Does he expect you to be a nun because he lives in a priory?"

"Almost, I really think," was the reply; "and now, good-bye, Mr. Fairlegh," she continued--"I
shall feel ~154~~happier since I have been able to explain to you that I am not quite a monster
of ingratitude."

"If that is the case, I am bound to rejoice in it also," answered I, "though I would fain convince
you that the explanation was not required."

Her only reply to this was an incredulous shake of the head; and, once more wishing me good-morning,
she tripped along the path; and, when I turned to look again, her graceful figure had disappeared
among the trees.

With a flushed brow and beating heart (gentle reader, I was barely twenty) I hastened to rejoin
my companion, who, as might be expected, was not in the most amiable humour imaginable, having
had to restrain the impatience of two fiery horses for a space of time nearly approaching a
quarter of an hour.

"Really, Lawless," I began, "I am quite ashamed." "Oh, you are, are you?" was the rejoinder.
"I should rather think you ought to be, too. But it's always the way with you fellows who pretend
to be steady and moral, and all that sort of thing: when you do find a chance of getting into
mischief, you're worse a great deal than a man like myself, for instance, who, without being
bothered with any particular principles of any kind, has what I call a general sense of fitness
and propriety, and does his dissipation sensibly and correctly. But to go tearing off like
a lunatic after the first petticoat you see fluttering among the bushes in a gentleman's park,
and leaving your friend to hold in two thorough-bred peppery devils, that are enough to pull
a man's arms off, for above a quarter of an hour, it's too bad a great deal. Why, just before
you came, I fully expected when that mare was plunging about on her hind legs----"

"How lovely she looked!" interrupted I, thinking aloud.

"You thought so, did you?" rejoined Lawless; "I wish you'd just had to hold her; her mouth's
as hard----"

"Her mouth is perfect," replied I emphatically; "quite perfect."

"Well, that's cool," muttered Lawless; "he'll put me in a passion directly;--pray, sir, may
I ask how on earth you come to know anything about her mouth?"

"How do I know anything about her mouth?" exclaimed I. "Did I not watch with delight its ever-varying
expression?--mark each movement of those beautiful lips, and drink in every syllable that fell
from them?--not observe her mouth! Think you, when we have been conversing together for the
last quarter of an hour, that I could fail to do so?"

~155~~"Oh he's gone stark staring mad!" exclaimed Lawless; "strait-waistcoats, Bedlam, and
all that sort o' thing, you know;--conversing with my bay mare for the last quarter of an hour,
and drinking in every syllable that fell from her beautiful lips--oh, he's raving!"

"What do you mean?" said I, at length awaking to some consciousness of sublunary affairs--"Your
mare!--who ever thought of your mare? it's Miss Saville I'm talking about."

"Miss Saville!" repeated Lawless, giving vent to a long whistle, expressive of incredulity;
"why, you don't mean to say you've been talking to Miss Saville all this time, do you?"

"To be sure I have," replied I; "and a very interesting and agreeable conversation it was too."

"Well," exclaimed Lawless, after a short pause; "all the luck in this matter seem's to fall
to your share; so the sooner I get out of it the better. It won't break my heart, that's one
comfort;--if the young woman has the bad taste to prefer you to me, why, it can't be helped,
you know;--but what did she say for herself, eh?"

"She sent you her forgiveness for one thing," replied I; and I then proceeded to relate such
particulars of the interview as I considered expedient; which recital, and our remarks thereupon,
furnished conversation during the remainder of our drive.

CHAPTER XIX -- TURNING THE TABLES

     "'You should also make no noise in the streets.'

     "'You may stay him.'

     "'Nay, by're lady, that I think he cannot.'

     "'Five shillings to one on't with any man that knows the
     statutes, he may stay him. His wits are not so blunt as, God help, I
     would desire they were. It is an offence to stay a man against
     his will. O that he were here to write me down an ass! but,
     masters, remember that I am an ass: though it be not written
     down, yet forget not that I am an ass."
     --Much Ado About Nothing.

ABOUT a week had elapsed after the events which I have just recorded, when one morning, shortly
before my return to Cambridge, I received a letter from Coleman, detailing the finale of the
bellringing affair. It ran as follows:--

~156~~"My Dear Frank--Doubtless you are, or ought to be, very anxious to hear how I contrived
to get out of the scrape into which you and the Honourable George managed to inveigle me, having
previously availed yourselves of my innocence, and succeeded, through the seductive medium
of oysters and porter, in corrupting my morals, then leaving me, poor victim! to bear the blame,
and suffer the consequences, of our common misdemeanour. However, mine is no pitiful spirit
to be quelled by misfortune, and, as dangers thickened around me, I bore up against them bravely,
like--like--(was it Julius Cæsar or Coriolanus who did that sort of thing?) but never mind--like
a Roman brick, we'll say; the particular brick is quite immaterial, but I must beg you to believe
the likeness was something striking. To descend to particulars.--Hostilities were commenced
by that old ass, Mayor Dullmug, who took out a summons against me for creating a riot and disturbance
in the town, and the first day the bench sat I was marched off by two policemen, and locked
up in a little dirty room, to keep cool till their worships were ready to discuss me. Well,
there I sat, kicking my heels, and chuckling over a heart-rending little scene I had just gone
through with my mother, whose dread of the terrors of the law was greatly increased by the
very vague ideas she possessed of the extent of its powers. The punishment she had settled
in her own mind as likely to be awarded me was transportation, and her farewell address was
as follows: 'If they should be cruel enough to order you to be transported for fourteen years,
Freddy, my dear, I shall try to persuade your father (though he's just like a savage North
American Indian about you) to get it changed "for life" instead, for they always die of the
yellow fever for the sharks to eat them, when they've been over there three or four years;
and four years are better than fourteen, though bad's the best, and I'm a miserable woman.
I read all about it last week in one of Captain Marryat's books, and very shocking I thought
it,'--Having ventured to hint that if I was carried off by the yellow fever at the end of a
year or two, the length of my sentence would not signify much to me when I was dead, I was
rebuked with 'Don't talk in that shocking way, Frederick, as if you were a heathen, in your
situation, and I hearing you your collect every Sunday, besides Mrs. Hannah More, who might
have been a saint if ever there was one, or anything else she liked, with her talents, only
she was too good for this wicked world, and so she went to a better, and wrote that charming
book Colebs ~157~~in Search of a Wife'.--Oh! my poor dear mother's queer sentences! I was becoming
shockingly tired of my own company, when it occurred to me that it would be the correct thing
to carve my name on the Newgate stone à la Jack Sheppard; and I was just putting a few finishing
strokes to the N of Coleman, wherewith, in characters at least six inches long, I had embellished
a very conspicuous spot over the chimney-piece, when I was surprised 'with my chisel so fine,
tra la,' (i.e., with a red-hot poker, which I had been obliged to put up with instead, it being
the only implement attainable,) by the officials, who came to summon me, and who did not appear
in the slightest degree capable of appreciating the beauties of my performance. By them I was
straightway conducted into the awful presence of sundry elderly gentlemen, rejoicing in heads
all more or less bald, and faces expressing various degrees of solemn stupidity, who in their
proper persons constituted 'the bench'. Before these grave and reverend signiors did Master
Dullmug and his satellites

          "'Then and there,
          Rehearse and declare'

all my heinous crimes, offences and misdemeanours; whereupon the aforesaid signiors did solemnly
shake their bald heads, and appear exceedingly shocked and particularly puzzled. Well, at last
I was called upon for my defence, and, having made up my mind for some time what line I would
take, I cut the matter very short, by owning to have assisted in ringing the bells, which I
confessed was an act of folly, but nothing more, and that the idea of its constituting an offence
punishable by law was absurd in the extreme. This sent them to book, and, after turning over
sundry ponderous tomes, and consulting various statutes of all sorts and sizes, besides whispering
together, and shaking their heads once and again, till I began to fear that their necks would
be dislocated, they arrived at the conclusion that I was right, or thereabouts. This fact the
eldest, most bald, and most stupid of the party, chosen by common consent, doubtless in virtue
of these attributes, as spokesman, proceeded to communicate to me in a very prosy harangue,
to which he appended a lecture--a sort of stock article, which he evidently kept constantly
on hand, with blanks which could be filled up to suit any class of offenders. In this harangue
he pointed out the dangers of juvenile tricks, and the evils of dissipation, winding up with
the assurance that, as I seemed deeply sensible of the error of my ways, they, the ~158~~magistrates,
would, on my making a suitable apology to that excellent public functionary, the Mayor of Hillingford,
graciously deign to overlook my misconduct. During his long-winded address a new idea struck
me, and when he had concluded I inquired, with all due respect, whether 'I was to understand
that it was quite certain I had committed no offence punishable by law?' To this he replied,
'that I might set my mind completely at ease upon that point; that though, morally speaking,
I had been guilty of a very serious misdemeanour, in the eye of the law I was perfectly innocent'.
'In that case, gentlemen,' replied I, 'the liberty of the subject has been infringed; I have
been kept in illegal confinement for some hours, and I believe I have my remedy in an action
for false imprisonment against Mr. Dullmug. Does not the law bear me out in what I state?'
Again they had recourse to their books, and were unwillingly forced to confess that I was right.'
Then,' continued I, 'so far from making any apology to Mr. Dullmug, unless that gentleman consents
to beg my pardon, and gives me a written apology for the unjust and illegal prosecution to
which he has subjected me, I shall at once take the necessary steps to proceed against him.'
Oh! Frank, I would have given something to have had you there, old boy! when I announced this
determination; there was such a shindy as I never before witnessed: old Dullmug was furious,
and vowed he'd never apologise: I declared if he didn't, nothing should prevent me from bringing
my action: the magistrates tried to persuade me, but I was inflexible; and (by Jove! I was
very near forgetting the best part of it all) my governor, who was in court, the moment he
found the law was on my side, turned suddenly round, swore I had been shamefully used, and
that if it cost him every farthing he possessed in the world, he would see justice done me.
So the end of it was that old Dullmug was forced to write the apology; it now lies in my writing-desk,
and I look upon it as one of the proudest trophies man ever possessed. So, Master Frank, considering
all things, I think I may reckon I got pretty well out of that scrape.

"Ever your affectionate,

"F. C.

"P.S.--What have you said or done to render old Vernor so bitter against you? Clara Saville
tells Lucy, that, when she informed him of her having met and conversed with you alone in the
park that day, he flew into ~159~~such a rage as she had never seen him in before, and abused
you like a pickpocket; and she says she feels certain that, for some cause or other, he entertains
a strong personal dislike to you. Entre nous, I don't think the fair Clara seems exactly to
sympathise with him in this feeling. Considering that you had somewhat less than half an hour
to make play in, from Lucy's account you do not seem to have wasted much time. Ah! Master Frank,
you are a naughty boy; I can't help sighing when I reflect, how anxious your poor dear mother
must feel about you, when she knows you're out."

"Still the same light-hearted merry fellow as ever," exclaimed I, as I closed the letter; "how
long, I wonder, will those buoyant spirits of his resist the depressing effect which contact
with the harsh realities of life appears always sooner or later to produce? Strange, what he
says about that Mr. Vernor; I am not conscious that I ever met the man till the evening of
the ball, and yet I fancied there was something which seemed not utterly unfamiliar to me in
the expression of his face. Vernor! Vernor! I don't believe I ever heard the name before--it's
very odd. Of course, what he says about Miss Saville is all nonsense; and yet there was something
in her manner, which made me fancy, if I had time and opportunity--pshaw! what absurdity--I
shall have enough to do if I am to imagine myself in love with every nice girl who says, 'Thank
you' prettily for any trifling service I may chance to render her. Î am sure she is not happy,
poor thing! Seriously, I wish I were sufficiently intimate with her to be able to afford her
the advice and assistance of a friend, should such be ever required by her. I should take the
liberty of asking old Vernor what he meant by his extraordinary behaviour towards me, were
I to see much more of him; there's nothing like a little plain speaking. But I need, not trouble
my brains about the matter; I shall probably never meet either of them again, so what does
it signify? She certainly is the loveliest girl I ever saw, though! heigho!" and, with a sigh,
for which I should have been somewhat puzzled rationally to account, I took up my gun, and
set off for a day's shooting with Harry Oaklands.

TIME, that venerable and much-vituperated individual, who, if he has to answer for some acts
savouring of a taste for wanton destruction--if he now and then lunches on some noble old abbey,
which had remained a memorial of the deep piety and marvellous skill of our forefathers--if
he crops, by way of salad, some wide-spreading beech or hoary patriarchal oak, which had flung
its shade over the tombs of countless generations, and, as it stood forming a link between
the present and the past, won men's reverence by force of contrast with their own ephemeral
existence--yet atones for his delinquencies by softening the bitterness of grief, blunting
the sharp edge of pain, and affording to the broken-hearted the rest, and to the slave the
freedom, of the grave;--old Time, I say, who should be praised at all events for his perseverance
and steadiness, swept onward with his scythe, and cutting his way through the frost and snow
of winter, once more beheld the dust of that "brother of the east wind," March, converted into
mud by the showers of April, and the summer was again approaching. It was on a fine morning
in May, that, as Oaklands and I were breakfasting together in my rooms at Trinity, we heard
a tap at the door, and the redoubtable Shrimp made his appearance. This interesting youth had,
under Lawless's able tuition, arrived at such a pitch of knowingness that it was utterly impossible
to make him credit anything; he had not the smallest particle of confidence remaining in the
integrity of man, woman, or child; and, like many another of the would-be wise in their generation,
the only flaw in his scepticism was the bigoted nature of his faith in the false and hateful
doctrine of the universal depravity of the human race. He was the bearer of a missive from
his master, inviting Oaklands and myself to a wine-party at his rooms that evening.

"I suppose we may as well go," said Oaklands; "I like a positive engagement somewhere--it saves
one the trouble of thinking what one shall do with oneself."

~161~~"You can accept it," replied I, "but it would be a waste of time which I have no right
to allow myself; not only does it make one idle while it lasts, but the next day also, for
I defy a man to read to any purpose the morning after one of Lawless's symposia."

"Call it supper, my dear boy," returned Oaklands, stretching himself; "why do you take the
trouble to use a long word when a short one would do just as well? If I could but get you to
economise your labour and take things a little more easily, it would be of the greatest advantage
to you;--that everlasting reading too--I tell you what, Frank, you are reading a great deal
too hard; you look quite pale and ill. I promised Mrs. Fairlegh I would not let you overwork
yourself, and you shall not either. Come, you must and shall go to this party; you want relaxation
and amusement, and those fellows will contrive to rouse you up a bit, and do you good."

"To say the truth," I replied, "that is one of my chief objections to going. Lawless I like,
for the sake of old recollections, and because he is at bottom a well-disposed, good-hearted
fellow; but I cannot approve of the set of men one meets there. It is not merely their being
what is termed 'fast' that I object to; for though I do not set up for a sporting character
myself, I am rather amused than otherwise to mix occasionally with that style of men; but there
is a tone of recklessness in the conversation of the set we meet there, a want of reverence
for everything human and divine, which, I confess, disgusts me--they seem to consider no object
too high or too low to make a jest of."

"I understand the kind of thing you refer to," answered Oaklands, "but I think it's only one
or two of them who offend in that way; there is one man who is my particular aversion; I declare
if I thought he'd be there to-night I would not go."

"I think I know who you mean," replied I; "Stephen Wilford, is it not? the man they call 'Butcher,'
from some brutal thing he once did to a horse."

"You're right, Frank; I can scarcely sit quietly by and hear that man talk. I suppose he sees
that I dislike him, for there is something in his manner to me which is almost offensive; really
at times I fancy he wishes to pick a quarrel with me."

"Not unlikely," said I; "he has the reputation of being a dead shot with the pistol, and on
the strength of it he presumes to bully every one."

"He had better not go too far with me," returned ~162~~Oaklands, with flashing eyes; "men are
not to be frightened like children; such a character as that is a public nuisance."

"He will not be there to-night, I am glad to say," replied I, "for I met him yesterday when
I was walking with Lawless, and he said he was engaged to Wentworth this evening; but, my dear
Harry, for Heaven's sake avoid any quarrel with this man; should you not do so, you will only
be hazarding your life unnecessarily, and it can lead to no good result."

"My dear fellow, do I ever quarrel with anybody? there is nothing worth the trouble of quarrelling
about in this world; besides, it would be an immense fatigue to be shot," observed Harry, smiling.

"I have no great faith in your pacific sensations, for they are nothing more," rejoined I;
"your indolence always fails you where it might be of use in subduing (forgive me for using
the term) your fiery temper; besides, in allowing a man of this kind to quarrel with you, you
give him just the opportunity he wants; in fact you are completely playing his game."

"Well, I can't see that exactly; suppose the worst comes to the worst, and you are obliged
to fight him, he stands nearly as good a chance of being killed as you do."

"Excuse me, he does nothing of the kind; going out with a professed duellist is like playing
cards with a skilful gambler; the chances are very greatly in his favour: in the first place,
nine men out of ten would lose their nerve entirely when stationed opposite the pistol of a
dead shot; then again, there are a thousand apparent trifles of which the initiated are aware,
and which make the greatest difference, such as securing a proper position with regard to the
sun, taking care that your figure is not in a direct line with any upright object, a tree or
post for instance, and lots of other things of a like nature which we know nothing about, all
of which he is certain to contrive to have arranged favourably for himself, and disadvantageously
for his opponent. Then, having as it were trained himself for the occasion, he is perfectly
cool and collected, and ready to avail himself of every circumstance he might turn to his advantage--a
moment's hesitation in pulling the trigger when the signal is given, and he fires first--many
a man has received his death-wound before now ere he had discharged his own pistol."

"My dear boy," said Harry, "you really are exciting and alarming yourself very unnecessarily;
I am not going to quarrel with Wilford or anybody else; I detest ~163~~active exertion of every
kind, and consider duelling as a fashionable compound of iniquity, containing equal parts of
murder and suicide--and we'll go to Lawless's this evening, that I'm determined upon--and--let
me see--I've got James's new novel in my pocket. I shall not disturb you if I stay here, shall
I? I'm not going to talk."

Then, without waiting for an answer, he stretched himself' at full length on (and beyond) the
sofa, and was soon buried in the pages of that best of followers in the footsteps of the mighty
Wizard of the North--Walter Scott--leaving me to the somewhat less agreeable task of reading
mathematics.

CHAPTER XXI -- THE WINE-PARTY

          "This night I hold an old-accustomed feast,
          Whereto I have invited many a guest,
          Such as I love."

          "A fair assembly, whither should they come?

          Servant.--Up-----!

          Romeo.--Whither?

          Servant.--To supper."
          --Shakspeare.

          "All is not false that seems at first a lie."
          --Southey.

          "Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?

          I do bite my thumb, sir!

          Do you quarrel, sir?

          Quarrel, sir!   No, sir!

          If you do, sir, I am for you."
          --Shakspeare.

LET the reader imagine a long table covered with the remains of an excellent dessert, interspersed
with a multitude of bottles of all shapes and sizes, containing every variety of wine that
money could procure, or palate desire; whilst in the centre stood a glorious old china bowl
of punch, which the guests were discussing in tumblers--wine-glasses having been unanimously
voted much too slow. Around this table let there be seated from fifteen to twenty men, whose
ages might vary from nineteen to three- or four-and-twenty; some smoking cigars, some talking
vociferously, some laughing, some though they were decidedly the minority, listening: but ~164~~all
showing signs of being more or less elated by the wine they had taken. Let the reader imagine
all this, and he will have formed a pretty correct idea of the supper-party in Lawless's rooms,
as it appeared about ten o'clock on the evening subsequent to the conversation I have just
detailed.

"Didn't I see you riding a black horse with one white stocking yesterday, Oaklands?" inquired
a young man with a round jovial countenance, which might have been reckoned handsome but for
the extreme redness of the complexion, and the loss of a front tooth, occasioned by a fall
received in the hunting field, whose name was Richard, or, as he was more commonly termed,
Dick Curtis.

"Yes," replied Oaklands, "I daresay you did; I was trying him."

"Ah! I fancied he was not one of your own." "No; he belongs to Tom Barret, who wants me to
buy him; but I don't think he's strong enough to carry my weight; there's not substance enough
about him; I ride nearly eleven stone."

"Oh! he'll never do for you," exclaimed Lawless. "I know the horse well; they call him Blacksmith,
because the man who bred him was named Smith; he lives down in Lincolnshire, and breeds lots
of horses; but they are none of them, at least none that I have seen, what I call the right
sort; don't you buy him,--he's got too much daylight under him to suit you."

"Too long in the pasterns to carry weight," urged Curtis.

"Rather inclined to be cow-hocked," chimed in Lawless.

"Not ribbed home," remarked Curtis.

"Too narrow across the loins," observed Lawless.

"He'll never carry flesh," continued Curtis.

"It's useless to think of his jumping; he'll never make a hunter," said Lawless.

"Only hear them," interrupted a tall, fashionable-looking young man, with a high forehead and
a profusion of light, curling hair; "now those two fellows are once off, it's all up with anything
like rational conversation for the rest of the evening."

"That's right, Archer, put the curb on 'em; we might as well be in Tattersall's yard at once,"
observed another of the company, addressing the last speaker.

"I fear it's beyond my power," replied Archer; "they've got such an incurable trick of talking
equine scandal, and taking away the characters of their ~165~~neighbours' horses, that nobody
can stop them unless it is Stephen Wilford."

The mention of this name seemed to have the effect of rendering every one grave, and a pause
ensued, during which Oaklands and I exchanged glances. At length the silence was broken by
Curtis, who said:--

"By the way, what's become of Wilford? I expected to meet him here to-night."

"He was engaged to dine with Wentworth," said Lawless; "but he promised to look in upon us
in the course of the evening; I thought he would have been here before this."

As he spoke a tap was heard at the room-door.

"Well, that's odd," continued Lawless; "that's Wilford for a ducat; talk of the devil,--eh,
don't you know? Come in."

"You had better not repeat that in his hearing," observed Archer, "though I believe he'd take
it as a compliment on the whole; it's my opinion he rather affects the satanic."

"Hush," said Curtis, pressing his arm, "here he is."

As he spoke the door opened, and the subject of their remarks entered. He was rather above
the middle height, of a slight but unusually elegant figure, with remarkably small hands and
feet, the former of which were white and smooth as those of a woman. His features were delicately
formed and regular, and the shape of his face a perfect oval; strongly marked eyebrows overshadowed
a pair of piercing black eyes; his lips were thin and compressed, and his mouth finely cut;
his hair, which was unusually glossy and luxuriant, was jet black, as were his whiskers, affording
a marked contrast to the death-like pallor of his countenance. The only fault that could be
found in the drawing of his face was that the eyes were placed too near together; but this
imparted a character of intensity to his glance which added to, rather than detracted from,
the general effect of his appearance. His features, when in repose, were usually marked by
an expression of contemptuous indifference; he seldom laughed, but his smile conveyed an indication
of such bitter sarcasm that I have seen men, whom he chose to make a butt for his ridicule,
writhe under it as under the infliction of bodily torture. He was dressed, as was his wont,
entirely in black; but his clothes, which were fashionably cut, fitted him without a wrinkle.
He bowed slightly to the assembled company, and then seated himself in a chair which had been
reserved for ~166~~him at the upper end of the table, nearly opposite Oaklands and myself,
saying as he did so: "I'm afraid I'm rather late, Lawless, but Wentworth and I had a little
business to transact, and I could not get away sooner".

"What devil's deed have they been at now, I wonder?" whispered Oaklands to me.

"Manslaughter, most likely," replied Archer (who was seated next me, and had overheard the
remark), "Wilford appears so thoroughly satisfied with himself; that was just the way in which
he looked the morning he winged Sherringham, for I saw him myself."

"Send me down the claret, will you, Curtis?" asked Wilford. "Punch is a beverage I don't patronise;
it makes a man's hand shaky."

"If that is the case," returned Archer, "you ought to make a point of drinking it for the good
of society, my dear Wilford; let me help you to a glass."

"Nonsense, Archer, be quiet, man; here, taste this cool bottle, Wilford; claret's good for
nothing if it's at all flat," exclaimed Lawless, drawing the cork of a fresh magnum as he spoke.

"I differ from you in that opinion, Archer," returned Wilford, fixing his keen black eyes upon
the person he addressed with a piercing glance; "society is like the wine in this glass," and
he filled a bumper to the brim with claret as he spoke; "it requires a steady hand to keep
it within its proper bounds, and to compel it to preserve an unruffled surface"; and so saying
he raised the glass to his lips without spilling a drop, still keeping his eyes fixed upon
Archer's face with the same withering glance.

"Well, I have often heard of looking daggers at a person," continued Archer, who had been drinking
somewhat deeply during the evening, and now appeared possessed by a spirit of mischief leading
him to tease and annoy Wilford in every way he could think of; "but Wilford does worse, he
positively looks pistols--cocked and loaded pistols--at one. Fairlegh, I shall screen myself
behind your broad shoulders; I never could stand fire." So saying he seized me by the elbows,
and, urging me forward, crouched down behind me, affecting the extremity of terror.

The scowl on Wilford's brow deepened as he spoke, but, after a moment's hesitation, apparently
considering the affair too absurd to take notice of, he turned away with a contemptuous smile,
saying, "You make your punch too strong, Lawless".

Archer instantly recovered his erect attitude, and with ~167~~a flushed face seemed about to
make some angry reply, when Lawless, who appeared nervously anxious that the evening should
pass over harmoniously, interposed.

"Archer, you're absolutely incorrigible; keep him in order, Fairlegh, eh? give him some more
punch, and fill your own glass--it has been empty I don't know how long. I'll find a toast
that will make you drink--bumpers round, gentlemen, 'to the health of the prettiest girl in
Hertfordshire'. Are you all charged? I beg to propose

"Excuse my interrupting you, Lawless," exclaimed I--for I felt certain who it was he was thinking
of; and the idea of Miss Saville's name being mentioned and discussed with the tone of licence
common on such occasions, appeared to me such complete profanation, that I determined, be the
consequences what they might, to prevent it--"Excuse my interrupting you, but I should feel
greatly obliged by your substituting some other toast for the one you are about to propose".

"Eh, what! not drink the young woman's health? why I thought you admired her more than I do:
not drink her health? how's that, eh?"

"I shall be most happy to explain to you the reasons for my request at some other time," replied
I; "at present I can only add that I shall consider it as a personal favour if you will accede
to it."

"It does not appear to me to require an OEdipus to discover Mr. Fairlegh's reasons for this
request," observed Stephen Wilford; "he evidently does not consider the present company deserving
of the high honour of drinking the health of a young lady whom he distinguishes by his admiration."

"Not over-flattering, I must say," muttered Lawless, looking annoyed.

"I suppose he's afraid of our hearing her name, lest some of us should go and cut him out,"
suggested Curtis in an undertone, which was, however, perfectly audible.

"In the meanwhile, Lawless, I hope you're not going to indulge your friend's caprice at the
expense of the rest of the company," resumed Wilford; "having raised our expectations you are
bound to gratify them."

Lawless, who evidently hesitated between his desire to assert his independence and his wish
to oblige me, was beginning with his usual, "Eh? why, don't you see,"--when I interrupted him
by saying, "Allow me to set this matter at rest in a very few words. Lawless, I hope, knows
me well enough to feel sure that I could not ~168~~intend any disrespect either to himself
or to his guests--I believe it is not such an unheard-of thing for a gentle-man to object to
the name of any lady whom he respects being commented upon with the freedom incidental to a
convivial meeting like the present--however that may be, I have asked Lawless as a favour not
to drink a certain toast in my presence; should he be unwilling to comply with my request,
as I would not wish to be the slightest restraint upon him at his own table, I shall request
his permission to withdraw; on this point I await his decision. I have only one more observation
to make," continued I, looking at Wilford, who was evidently preparing to speak, "which is,
that if, after what I have just said, any gentleman should continue to urge Lawless to give
the toast to which I object, I must perforce consider that he wishes to insult me."

As I concluded, there was a murmur of applause, and Archer and one or two others turned to
Lawless, declaring it was quite impossible to press the matter further after what I had said;
when Wilford, in a cold, sarcastic tone of voice, observed: "I am sorry Mr. Fairlegh's last
argument should have failed in convincing me, as easily as it seems to have done some others
of the party; such, however, unfortunately being the case, I must repeat, even at the risk
of incurring a thing so terrible as that gentleman's displeasure, my decided opinion that Lawless,
having informed us he was going to drink a particular toast, should not allow himself to be
bullied out of it, in compliance with any man's humour".

This speech, as it might be expected, produced great excitement; I sprang to my feet (an example
followed by several of the party), and was about to make an angry reply, when Oaklands, who
up to this moment had taken no part in the discussion, but sat sipping his wine with his usual
air of listless contentment, apparently indifferent to, if not wholly unconscious of, all that
was going on, now rose from his seat, and having obtained silence said: "Really, gentlemen,
all this confusion appears to me very unnecessary, when a word from our host will end it. Fairlegh
has asked you not to propose a certain toast; it only remains for you, Lawless, to say, whether
you intend to do so or not."

Thus urged, Lawless replied, "Eh? no, certainly not; Frank Fairlegh's a trump, and I would
not do anything to annoy him for more than I can tell: besides, when I come to think of it,
I believe he was right, and I was wrong--but you see, women are a kind of cattle I don't clearly
understand--if it was a horse now----"

~169~~A burst of laughter at this characteristic remark drowned the conclusion of the speech,
but the announcement that the toast was given up appeared to produce general satisfaction;
for, since I had spoken, the popular opinion had been decidedly in my favour.

