But I grew weaker and weaker with trying to be strong, and one day when Jack came in and found
both the baby and myself crying, he said, man-like, "What's the matter?" I said, "I must have
some one to take care of me, or we shall both die."

He seemed to realize that the situation was desperate, and mounted men were sent out immediately
in all directions to find a woman.

At last, a Mexican girl was found in a wood-chopper's camp, and was brought to me. She was
quite young and very ignorant and stupid, and spoke nothing but a sort of Mexican "lingo,"
and did not understand a word of English. But I felt that my life was saved; and Bowen fixed
up a place on the couch for her to sleep, and Jack went over to the unoccupied room on the
other side of the cabin and took possession of the absent doctor's bed.

I begged Jack to hunt up a Spanish dictionary, and fortunately one was found at the cutler's
store, which, doubtless the cutler or his predecessor had brought into the country years before.

The girl did not know anything. I do not think she had ever been inside a casa before. She
had washed herself in mountain streams, and did not know what basins and sponges were for.
So it was of no use to point to the objects I wanted.

I propped myself up in bed and studied the dictionary, and, having some idea of the pronunciation
of Latin languages, I essayed to call for warm water and various other necessary articles needed
around a sick bed. Sometimes I succeeded in getting an idea through her impervious brain, but
more often she would stand dazed and immovable and I would let the dictionary drop from my
tired hands and fall back upon the pillow in a sweat of exhaustion. Then Bowen would be called
in, and with the help of some perfunctory language and gestures on his part, this silent creature
of the mountains would seem to wake up and try to understand.

And so I worried through those dreadful days--and the nights! Ah! we had better not describe
them. The poor wild thing slept the sleep of death and could not hear my loudest calls nor
desperate shouts.

So Jack attached a cord to her pillow, and I would tug and tug at that and pull the pillow
from under her head. It was of no avail. She slept peacefully on, and it seemed to me, as I
lay there staring at her, that not even Gabriel's trump would ever arouse her.

In desperation I would creep out of bed and wait upon myself and then confess to Jack and the
Doctor next day.

Well, we had to let the creature go, for she was of no use, and the Spanish dictionary was
laid aside.

I struggled along, fighting against odds; how I ever got well at all is a wonder, when I think
of all the sanitary precautions taken now-a-days with young mothers and babies. The Doctor
was ordered away and another one came. I had no advice or help from any one. Calomel or quinine
are the only medicines I remember taking myself or giving to my child.

