Meanwhile Montcalm had not been idle; though he was perplexed to the last, because one of the
stupid rules in the French camp was that all news was to be told first to Vaudreuil, who, as
governor-general, could pass it on or not, and interfere with the army as much as he liked.
When it was light enough to see Saunders's fleet, the island of Orleans, and the Point of Levy,
Montcalm at once noticed that Wolfe's men had gone. He galloped down to the bridge of boats,
where he found that Vaudreuil had already heard of Wolfe's landing. At first the French thought
the firing round the Foulon was caused by an exchange of shots between the Samos battery and
some British men-of-war that were trying to stop the French provision boats from getting in
there. But Vergor's fugitives and the French patrols near Quebec soon told the real story.
And then, just before seven, Montcalm himself caught sight of Wolfe's first redcoats marching
in along the Ste Foy road. Well might he exclaim, after all he had done and Vaudreuil had undone:
'There they are, where they have no right to be!'

He at once sent orders, all along his six miles of entrenchments, to bring up every French
regular and all the rest except 2,000 militia. But Vaudreuil again interfered; and Montcalm
got only the French and Canadian regulars, 2,500, and the same number of Canadian militia with
a few Indians. The French and British totals, actually present on the field of battle, were,
therefore, almost exactly equal, 5,000 each. Vaudreuil also forgot to order out the field guns,
the horses for which the vile and corrupt Bigot had been using for himself. At nine Montcalm
had formed up his French and colonial regulars between Quebec and the crest of rising ground
across the Plains beyond which lay Wolfe. Riding forward till he could see the redcoats, he
noticed how thin their line was on its left and in its centre, and that its right, near the
St Lawrence, had apparently not formed at all. But his eye deceived him about the British right,
as the men were lying down there, out of sight, behind a swell of ground. He galloped back
and asked if any one had further news. Several officers declared they had heard that Wolfe
was entrenching, but that his right brigade had not yet had time to march on to the field.
There was no possible way of finding out anything else at once. The chance seemed favourable.
Montcalm knew he had to fight or starve, as he was completely cut off by land and water, except
for one bad, swampy road in the valley of the St Charles; and he ordered his line to advance.

At half-past nine the French reached the crest and halted. The two armies were now in full
view of each other on the Plains and only a quarter of a mile apart. The French line of battle
had eight small battalions, about 2,500 men, formed six deep. The colonial regulars, in three
battalions, were on the flanks. The five battalions of French regulars were in the centre.
Montcalm, wearing a green and gold uniform, with the brilliant cross of St Louis over his cuirass,
and mounted on a splendid black charger, rode the whole length of his line, to see if all were
ready to attack. The French regulars--half-fed, sorely harassed, interfered with by Vaudreuil--were
still the victors of Ticonderoga, against the British odds of four to one. Perhaps they might
snatch one last desperate victory from the fortunes of war? Certainly all would follow wherever
they were led by their beloved Montcalm, the greatest Frenchman of the whole New World. He
said a few stirring words to each of his well-known regiments as he rode by; and when he laughingly
asked the best of all, the Royal Roussillon, if they were not tired enough to take a little
rest before the battle, they shouted back that they were never too tired to fight--'Forward,
forward!' And their steady blue ranks, and those of the four white regiments beside them, with
bayonets fixed and colours flying, did indeed look fit and ready for the fray.

Wolfe also had gone along his line of battle, the first of all two-deep thin red lines, to
make sure that every officer understood the order that there was to be no firing until the
French came close up, to within only forty paces. As soon as he saw Montcalm's line on the
crest he had moved his own a hundred paces forward, according to previous arrangement; so that
the two enemies were now only a long musket-shot apart. The Canadians and Indians were pressing
round the British flanks, under cover of the bushes, and firing hard. But they were easily
held in check by the light infantry on the left rear of the line and by the 35th on the right
rear. The few French and British skirmishers in the centre now ran back to their own lines;
and before ten the field was quite clear between the two opposing fronts.

Wolfe had been wounded twice when going along his line; first in the wrist and then in the
groin. Yet he stood up so straight and looked so cool that when he came back to take post on
the right the men there did not know he had been hit at all. His spirit already soared in triumph
over the weakness of the flesh. Here he was, a sick and doubly wounded man; but a soldier,
a hero, and a conqueror, with the key to half a continent almost within his eager grasp.

At a signal from Montcalm in the centre the French line advanced about a hundred yards in perfect
formation. Then the Canadian regulars suddenly began firing without orders, and threw themselves
flat on the ground to reload. By the time they had got up the French regulars had halted some
distance in front of them, fired a volley, and begun advancing again. This was too much for
the Canadians. Though they were regulars they were not used to fighting in the open, not trained
for it, and not armed for it with bayonets. In a couple of minutes they had all slunk off to
the flanks and joined the Indians and militia, who were attacking the British from under cover.

This left the French regulars face to face with Wolfe's front: five French battalions against
the British six. These two fronts were now to decide the fate of Canada between them. The French
still came bravely on; but their six-deep line was much shorter than the British two-deep line,
and they saw that both their flanks were about to be over-lapped by fire and steel. They inclined
outwards to save themselves from this fatal overlap on both right and left. But that made just
as fatal a gap in their centre. Their whole line wavered, halted oftener to fire, and fired
more wildly at each halt.

In the meantime Wolfe's front stood firm as a rock and silent as the grave, one long, straight,
living wall of red, with the double line of deadly keen bayonets glittering above it. Nothing
stirred along its whole length, except the Union Jacks, waving defiance at the fleurs-de-lis,
and those patient men who fell before a fire to which they could not yet reply. Bayonet after
bayonet would suddenly flash out of line and fall forward, as the stricken redcoat, standing
there with shouldered arms, quivered and sank to the ground.

Captain York had brought up a single gun in time for the battle, the sailors having dragged
it up the cliff and run it the whole way across the Plains. He had been handling it most gallantly
during the French advance, firing showers of grape-shot into their ranks from a position right
out in the open in front of Wolfe's line. But now that the French were closing he had to retire.
The sailors then picked up the drag-ropes and romped in with this most effective six-pounder
at full speed, as if they were having the greatest fun of their lives.

