 Sometimes I pray the
    distractions directly into the prayer--"swift, hurrying life of
    which these humming motors are the symbol--pass by at your will--I
    seek the still water that lies beneath these surface waves," or "the
    wind of God is always blowing but I must hoist my sail," and proceed
    with my prayer.

WHAT ARE WE TO DO WHEN A MEETING IS UNLIVING? Suffer it. Continue to do your part to contribute
to the life. Continue to pray that God will quicken the meeting, shake it awake. Suppose you
yourself are heavy with inertia and feel more dead than alive. The only way to overcome inertia
is to become active. Since, in a meeting for worship, our bodies are still, the only positive
action is inner-action. We have already considered several inward practices that facilitate
inner-action. Engage in one or more of these with renewed determination. See your deadness
as a challenge and resolve not to be overcome by it but to overcome it. Struggle against it.
Persist in the act of turning your mind and heart Godwards. Kindle your expectancy. Wait before
the Lord. Think of Him. Pray Him to send His life into you, and into the meeting, and into
the people of the world. Should these inward practices prove of no avail, I sometimes fall
back on this device. There is always in us some theme that the mind wants to think of, some
fear, some desire, some problems, some situation, some prospect. Though the theme is not a
fit one for a meeting for worship, I let my mind run on about it. Once the mind is well started
on this topic, I switch it and transfer its momentum to one of the practices that prepare for
worship.

HOW SHOULD WE COME TO MEETING? Reluctantly? No. Burdened by a feeling of obligation to attend?
No. Expecting something dull and tedious? No! If a meeting evokes only dullness in its members
it is a dead meeting and ought to be laid down. A live meeting evokes life. Just the prospect
of attending such a meeting should quicken us. It were better to come alive doing housework
than to become deadened in a meeting house.

Come with the expectancy that, as you make effort to turn yourself Godwards, the life deep
within you will arise, and meet you half-way, and call you, and draw you, gather you into God's
presence. Come with the hope that the Teacher within will teach you of spiritual things. Come
with the expectancy that as you meet with other Friends, in this very gathering you and they
will be shaken awake by the impact of God's power, and made to tremble, and become actual Quakers.
Come with the prayer that one and all may be "brought through the very ocean of darkness and
death, by the eternal, glorious power of Christ, into the ocean of light and love."

WHAT SHOULD WE DO, IN AND OUT OF MEETING, IN OUR PERIODS OF WORSHIP AND IN OUR DAILY LIVES?
Practice the presence of God. Practice, as far as we are able, the love of God and the love
of man and all creation. But let George Fox declare it to us, as he declared it to the early
Friends and to people of all ranks and conditions in two continents. "All people must first
come to the Spirit of God in themselves, by which they might know God and Christ, of whom the
prophets and apostles learnt; by which Spirit they might have fellowship with the Son, and
with the Father, and with the Scriptures, and with one another; and without this Spirit they
can know neither God nor Christ, nor the Scriptures, nor have right fellowship one with another."

FOR FURTHER READING

Books

AN APOLOGY FOR THE TRUE CHRISTIAN DIVINITY by Robert Barclay

THE BOOK OF DISCIPLINE OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS

CREATIVE WORSHIP by Howard H. Brinton

THE FAITH AND PRACTICE OF THE QUAKERS by Rufus M. Jones

THE JOURNAL OF GEORGE FOX

THE LETTERS OF ISAAC PENINGTON

PRAYER AND WORSHIP by Douglas V. Steere

THE QUAKER MINISTRY by John William Graham

