St. Adrian, Chapel of, near Rouen.
St. Clotilda, her fountain, at Andelys
  still worshipped there.
St. Evroul, abbey of, founded by William de Gerouis,
  residence of Ordericus Vitalis.
St. Georges de Bocherville, abbey of, founded by Ralph de Tancarville,
  its history,
  abbey church described
  sculpture in ditto
  chapter-house.
St. Germain, church of, at Pont Audemer.
St. Germain de Blancherbe, church of.
St. Gervais, church of, at Falaise.
St. Giles, church of, at Evreux.
St. Jacques, church of at Lisieux.
St. John, church of, at Caen.
St. Lascivus, bishop of Bayeux.
St. Lupus, bishop of Bayeux, so called from destroying the wolves.
St. Maimertus, subterranean chapel dedicated to, in Bayeux cathedal.
St. Michael, church of, in the suburb of Vaucelles, at Caen.
St. Nicholas, church of at Caen
  its roof like those of the Irish stone-roofed chapels.
St. Peter, church of at Caen
  sculpture upon the capital of one of the columns.
St. Philibert, founder of Jumieges.
St. Regnobert, bishop of Bayeux, his chasuble kept in the cathedral,
  domestic animals blessed on his feast-day.
St. Stephen, church of, at Caen.
St. Stephen, abbey of, at Caen, its privileges
  now used as the college.
St. Stephen, abbey church of, at Caen, described
  formed on the the Roman model
  burial-place of the Conqueror.
St. Taurinus, founder of Evreux cathedral
  his fight with the devil,
  his shrine
  crypt, in which he was buried.
St. Taurinus, abbey of at Evreux
  its privileges
  ancient architecture in the church
  crypt.
St. Vitalis, his feast celebrated annually at Evreux.
St. Ursinus, privileges enjoyed by the Canons, at Lisieux, on his vigil
and feast-day.
Saxons, established about Bayeux, where many words from their language
still exist.
Screens, of rare occurrence in French churches.
Sculpture, in the abbey church of St. Georges de Bocherville,
  in the chapter-house of the same abbey,
  in the abbey church of Jumieges,
  on the capitals in the church at Gournay,
  on a capital in the abbey church at Bernay,
  over the high altar at Bernay,
  on a tomb in Lisieux cathedral,
  on a capital in St. Peter's at Caen,
  on the capitals of the pillars in the crypt at Bayeux cathedral,
Seal, supposed to belong to Matilda, wife of the Conqueror,
Sheep, Norman breed of,
Siege, of Château Gaillard,
Statues, in the chapter-house of the abbey of St. Georges de Bocherville,
  of William the Conqueror, at Caen,
Stothard, C.A., his drawings of the Bayeux tapestry,
  his opinion on its antiquity,
String-course, remarkable, in the church of Notre Dame des Prés, at
Pont Audemer,
Superstitions, still remaining in Normandy,

T.

Tancarville, Ralph, chamberlain to the Conqueror, and founder of the
abbey of St. Georges de Bocherville,
Tapestry, Bayeux, accounts of, published by Montfaucon and Lancelot,
  referred by them to Matilda, Queen of the Conqueror,
  figure from,
  its antiquity denied by Lord Littleton, Hume, and the Abbé de la Rue,
  when first described,
  reasons for believing in its antiquity,
  formerly kept at the cathedral,
  exhibited during the revolution at Paris,
  described,
Tassillon, confined at Jumieges,
Tassilly, ancient tombs found at,
Theobald, archbishop of Canterbury a monk of Bec,
Thomas à Becket, retired during his disgrace to Lisieux,
Tiles, painted, in the palace at Caen,
  supposed to prove the antiquity of heraldic bearings,
Tombeau des énervez, at Jumieges,
Tombs, ancient, at Cocherel,
  in Lisieux cathedral,
  at Tassilly,
Torigny marble,
Trinity Holy, abbey of the, at Caen, when built,
  used as a fortress as well as a nunnery
  its income
  privileges.
Trinity Holy, church of the abbey of the, at Caen, now a work-house,
  described,
  its spires destroyed by Charles, King of Navarre.
Turnebus, Adrian, native of Andelys.
Turold, founder of Bourg-Theroude, represented on the Bayeux tapestry.