 It is force which constitutes necessity, and the total absence
of force which constitutes liberty; and as all force is absent from mere knowledge, it is evident
that neither foreknowledge nor afterknowledge involves any necessity, or interferes in the
least degree with human freedom. Man could not be more free than he is, if God were totally
ignorant of all his volitions and actions" (Deity, p. 293). Calvinists sometimes entrench themselves
behind God's foreknowledge as behind a rampart of granite, but it gives in reality no support
to their system. That God knows the possible, and the contingent, was illustrated in the case
of David at Keilah. He had taken up his temporary residence in this town. Saul was out on the
war path, and David wished to know if he would visit Keilah, and if so, whether the men of
Keilah would deliver him up. The answer was that Saul would come, and the people would deliver
him up. Receiving this answer from God, he left. This shows that God's knowledge does not necessitate
an event (see 1 Sam. xxiii.)

He knows what might be, but which never will be. He saw how men would act in regard to David,
but His knowledge did not make them do it. And He knows how men will act regarding the rejection
of salvation, but this does not necessitate them to ruin their souls. He is certain that they
might have been saved. There was a perfect remedy for their need; they had power to take it,
and refused. The lost might have been saved; or, in other words, every man in hell might have
been in heaven.

The late Lord Kinloch in his Circle of Christian Doctrine, has several judicious remarks on
this subject. In his chapter on predestination he says:--"The choice of free agents cannot
have been predestinated in any proper sense of the word, that is, cannot have been fixed beforehand
so as to fall out in one way, and no other, irrespectively of his own will. To say that it
has been so, involves a contradiction in terms, for it is to say that a man chooses and does
not choose at one and the same moment. The choice may be foreseen, must indeed in every case
be foreseen by God, otherwise the government of the universe could not be conducted. But to
foresee and foreordain are essentially different things" (p. 121). He says again, "What God
appoints; He, to whom the whole of futurity lies open at a glance, necessarily appoints beforehand.
Hence arises the axiomatic distinction which I find the key to the subject. All that God is
himself to do He not merely foresees but foreordains. All that He does not do himself, but
leaves man to do by the very act of creating him a free agent, the choice, namely, between
one course and another, is foreseen but not predestined" (p. 124). The ideas of Lord Kinloch
are sound, and we deem them irrefutable.

CHAPTER V.

PROOF TEXTS FOR CALVINISTIC PREDESTINATION EXAMINED.

THE Scriptures are supposed to teach the doctrine that God hath foreordained whatsoever comes
to pass. It were impossible within the compass of this short treatise to consider at large
all the passages that have been imported into this controversy. We shall, however, consider
a few which seem to favour the dogma.

THE SONS OF ELI.--In 1 Sam. ii. 25, it is written regarding the sons of Eli, "Notwithstanding
they hearkened not to the voice of their father, because the Lord would slay them." The whole
stress of the argument from this passage lies in the word "because." They were not able to
hearken to their father, because God had determined to slay them. There are two objections
to this view, the first critical and the second moral. The Hebrew particle translated because
is --ki. It is again and again translated by the word "that," and there is no reason in the
world why it should not have been so translated in this passage. By substituting "that" for
"because," there is no support to predestination. It simply denotes, in such case, that they
would not believe their father, which doubtless was the case from their depraved habits. The
moral objection is that God had made their return to good impossible, whilst He declares that
He is not willing that any should perish. On these grounds we reject the interpretation.

MICAIAH AND AHAB.--The parabolic representation of Micaiah is held as proving not the bare
permission of an event, but the actual deception of Ahab. The matter is recorded in 1 Kings
xxii. Jehoshaphat had paid a visit to his neighbour, the King of Israel, Ahab. The latter proposed
that the former should accompany him in an attack upon Ramoth-gilead. Ahab's prophets had promised
success to the enterprise. Jehoshaphat wished to inquire of the prophet of the Lord. Ahab told
them that there was one, Micaiah by name, but that he hated him as he always prophesied evil
of him. He was sent for, however, and when he came he was asked if they should go up against
Ramoth-gilead. He answered, "Go and prosper; for the Lord shall deliver it into the hand of
the king." This was evidently spoken in such a tone and manner, that Ahab said, "How many times
shall I adjure thee that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the Lord?"
The prophet then uttered a few words about the dispersion of the army, which were very unpalatable
to the king. A question was asked who would persuade Ahab to go up, and at last one answered
that he would go and be a lying spirit in the mouth of the prophets, and that he would persuade
him. (1 Kings xxii.) It is held that this narrative proves that God intended to deceive Ahab.
I could understand an infidel trying to make capital out of such a passage; but for a professed
Christian to go to it to prove that God intended to deceive Ahab, appears at first sight to
transcend belief. To do so is to sap the foundations of religion. How much reason has the Bible
to say, "Save me from my friends!" No doubt, the interpretation of the passage given lies on
the same lines with the general system of the true Calvinists, and is quite of a piece with
their declaration that God foreordained the Jews to crucify Christ. But, let us look at the
passage. If God had intended to deceive Ahab, as saith Calvin, the course taken was the very
opposite of what was fitted to secure the end. Micaiah was His recognised prophet; He spoke
through him, and warned Ahab against going up. The result, if he did, was predicted; was this
deception? The method adopted by the prophet was highly dramatic, and fitted to impress both
the kings with the folly of the enterprise. It was a LYING spirit that was to inspire the emissaries
of Baal, and advise the attack. And if God's prophet intimated disaster--which actually occurred--where
was there deception? When it is said that God told the lying spirit to go and deceive Ahab,
this is the mere drapery of the parable, and must be held as denoting sufferance, and not authoritative
command. When the literal meaning of a passage leads to absurdity, we are required, to seek
for its spirit or other explanation. Christ said, "Give to him that asketh of thee; and from
him that would borrow of thee, turn not thou away." To carry this out literally would be impossible;
but the spirit of the passage is beautiful, teaching, as it does, the heavenly charity characteristic
of the good man. Christ demanded of those who would become His disciples, that they should
hate their brethren; but no honest interpreter would take this literally. The passage evidently
means that we owe a higher allegiance and love to Christ than any earthly relationship. The
parable of Micaiah, taken literally, makes God to take part in the work of Satan, whilst He
also works against himself, in inspiring His own prophet. Such a method must be rejected. The
great truth brought out in the parable is this--viz., that a man rejecting heavenly counsel
becomes a prey to evil spirits, which drive him to ruin.

LIMITATION OF DAYS.--Job xiv. 5 is appealed to. We do not see any bearing the passage has upon
the subject under discussion --universal predestination, It brings before us the Divine Sovereignty,
by virtue of which God has determined the laws of the constitution of man, and that there is
a period in his life beyond which he cannot go. But he may shorten this period, for "bloody
and deceitful men do not live half their days," and many people commit suicide, and break one
of God's commands. Does God determine the number of suicides? Yes, if Calvinism is true; for,
according to it, He hath "foreordained whatsoever comes to pass."

RESTRAINT ON WRATH.--Psalm lxxvi. 10 is appealed to. Dying men catch at straws, and, to appeal
to this passage is as if one were catching at a straw. It brings before us the great truth
that God overrules evil, and brings good out of it. The methods by which God does this are
not stated, but would be suited to the peculiar circumstances of each case. We see illustrations
of the principle in the destruction of the Egyptians, the deliverance of the three Hebrews
from the furnace, and the general history of the Church. But to bring good out of evil and
cut down persecutors, are very different things from "foreordaining whatsoever comes to pass."

THE STANDING OF THE COUNSEL.--Isaiah xlvi. 10 is appealed to. It is as follows:--"My counsel
shall stand, and I shall do all my pleasure." Now there is no doubt that God's counsel shall
stand, nor that He will do all His pleasure; but the questions are, what is His counsel, and
what is His pleasure? To bring the passage forward on behalf of universal foreordination is
to assume the point in debate, and it is therefore inadmissible. God has a definite purpose
regarding individuals and nations. It is to make the best out of every man that He can in harmony
with the freedom of the will; and it is the same regarding nations. (Isa. i. 19). This is the
Divine counsel and pleasure regarding man still.

EVIL IN THE CITY.--Amos iii. 6 is appealed to. It is as follows: --"Shall the trumpet be blown
in the city, and the people not be afraid? Shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord hath
not done it?" The word rendered "evil" (ra) occurs more than 300 times in the Old Testament,
and has various shades of signification. It is translated as meaning "sorrow" (Gen. xliv. 29),
"wretchedness" (Neh. xi. 15), "distress" (Neh. ii. 17). It is applied to "beasts," "diseases,"
"adversity," "troubles." It stood as the opposite of "good," and sometimes meant "sin." To
determine its meaning in any particular instance, we must consider the context. In the beginning
of the third chapter of Amos, punishment is threatened against the people: "You only have I
known of all the families of the earth; therefore will I punish you for all your iniquities."
When trouble and distress come upon a people, they may be said to come from God as the result
of their disobedience. He vexes them in His "sore displeasure."

There are various species of evil--as metaphysical evil, or the evil of limitation; physical
evil, or departure from type; moral evil, or sin; and penal evil, or the punishment of sin.
Looking at the context, it is perfectly clear that the prophet has reference to the last-mentioned.
The people had broken God's laws, and were punished by God for their misdeeds. It might take
the form of pestilence or famine, but whatever was its shape, it was a messenger from God.
He sent it because the people had done wrong. This interpretation is in harmony with the usage
of the word, and satisfies the moral conscience.

The passage in Isaiah xlv. 7, "I make peace and create evil," has obviously the same meaning,
as it stands in contrast to "peace." "Peace" is representative of blessings; "evil" is the
synonym of distress and sorrow. The prophet is supposed to allude to the Persian religion,
according to which there were two great beings in the universe--viz., Oromasden, from whom
comes good, and Ahriman, from whom comes evil. It is very doubtful whether the prophet had
any such reference. Barnes says,--"The main object here is, the prosperity which should attend
the arms of Cyrus, the consequent reverses and calamities of the nations whom he would subdue,
and the proof thence furnished that JEHOVAH was the true God; and the passage should be limited
in the interpretation to this design. The statement, then, is that all this was under His direction."

PREDESTINATION AND THE CRUCIFIXION OF CHRIST.--Acts ii. 23 is appealed to. But how can these
words prove universal foreordination? It might be said, that if God foreordained the bad deeds
of the crucifiers, the principle is established. True; but did He foreordain them? The words
simply declare that God had given up Christ, and that in so doing He had acted in harmony with
a settled plan, and that the Jews had wickedly taken the Saviour and slain Him. From the throne
of His excellency God saw the character of the people that lived in A.D. 33; that they stood
upon religious punctilio, and "as having the form of godliness whilst destitute of its power,"
that they would do as the Scriptures foretold; and yet He determined to send His son into their
very midst, and when He came, they took Him and crucified Him. In all that they did they acted
freely. Had it not been so, had they been acting under an iron necessity, then the apostle
could not have brought against them the charge of having done what they did with "wicked hands."
That charge, that homethrust, explodes the Calvinistic argument, as far as the verse is concerned.

Another passage is Acts iv. 27, 28. But the question is simply this,--what was it that God
had determined to be done? We cannot admit that God had fixed unalterably the doings of Herod,
Pilate, and their unholy allies, for the simple reason given in explaining Acts ii. 23--viz.,
that if such were the case, then there is no foothold upon which to condemn those high-handed
sinners. They were verily guilty, but we cannot find a shadow of fault with them if they were
only doing what they were foreordained to do. What, then, had God determined to be done? He
had determined to send His son into the world to make an atonement for sin. But this might
have been done without the betrayal, the trial, and the crucifixion. I may determine to go
to a distant city without determining the mode of travel. One way may be pleasant, another
disagreeable in the highest degree, and yet the latter may be chosen because of certain collateral
issues.

So Christ's death might have been determined on, but not the mode. Atonement might have been
made in another way than on the cross. It was not the crucifixion that made the atonement,
but its value lay in the death of the Son of God. Had He expired during the sore agony in the
garden, would not His death have been meritorious? The adjuncts, the trial and crucifixion,
were not therefore necessary to give His death atoning power. But God saw what the Jews would
do, --that they would, in the exercise of their free agency, and without any decree, put Christ
to death; and yet He sent Him at the time He did. All the glory of grace, therefore, redounds
to the praise of the Lord, and the ignominy rests upon the Jews and the Gentiles. As a proof
of universal foreordination, the passage proves nothing.

GOD WORKETH ALL THINGS.--Ephes. i. 11 is adduced as upholding the predestination of all events.
It reads thus: "In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according
to the purpose of Him who worketh all things after the counsel of His own will." The stress
of the passage as a proof rests on the words, "who worketh all things." But according to the
canon of interpretation already stated--viz., that when the literal interpretation of a passage
leads to absurdity, it cannot be the true one. John in his first epistle (ii. 20) says, "But
ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things." To take these words literally
would be to make those Christians to whom they were addressed to possess all knowledge, and
thus make them equal to God, which is absurd. The words must be limited to the subject matter
in which they are found. The apostle is speaking of the anointing of Christians, the imparting
unto them of the Holy Ghost, and the phrase "all things" denotes things necessary to salvation,
It is said (Acts ii. 44) that the first Christians "had all things common." But to take the
words literally would be to outrage propriety. In Philippians ii. 14, it is written: "Do all
things without murmurings and disputings." Here, again, the words must be limited in their
application, otherwise the Christians were commanded to do all kinds of evil if commanded,
without a murmur or dispute. This could not be, hence the words must be restricted to the duties
devolving on them. So there must, of necessity, be restriction upon the passage in Ephesians
quoted in the Confession of Faith. It must be restricted, otherwise it will follow that God
is the only worker in the universe. And what is done in the world? God's laws are broken; but
if He is the only worker, then He is the only breaker of His own laws! This is absurd, hence
the literality must be given up. The obvious meaning is, that in the redemptive scheme God
has wrought it all out according to the wise plan He had formed respecting it, just as He works
out all His plans in nature and in providence.

We know of no stronger passages than those mentioned, although others have been quoted. It
is the easiest thing in the world to quote verses from the Bible as supporting a dogma; it
is quite a different thing to show that they prove it.

CHAPTER VI.

OBJECTIONS TO CALVINISTIC PREDESTINATION.

THERE are very grave objection's to this doctrine, that God hath foreordained whatsoever comes
to pass. They are so formidable, indeed, that in view of them the doctrine to our finding must
be rejected. On another occasion we stated several of these, which, with a few modifications,
were the following:--

(1.) In the first place, we object to the doctrine of universal foreordination because, if
adhered to, it makes science and philosophy impossible. These are all based upon the trustworthiness
of consciousness, and if this is false we have no foundation to build upon. When we interrogate
consciousness it testifies to our freedom. But if every volition is fixed, as it is held it
is, by a power ab extra from the mind exercising the volition, then consciousness is mendacious;
it lies when it testifies to our freedom, and, therefore, cannot be trusted; thus, science,
philosophy, and religion become impossible. The old Latin saw falsum in uno, falsum in omnibus,
which, when freely translated, is--one who gives false evidence on one point may be doubted
on all points. And where does this lead to? It leads to Pyrrhonism in science and philosophy,
and indifferentism in religion. The doctrine is thus a foundation for universal scepticism.

(2.) In the second place, we object to universal foreordination because it leads to Pantheism,
a phase of Atheism. Pantheism as Pantheism may be viewed statically or dynamically. The static
Pantheist assumes that all properties are properties of one substance. This was the feature
of the vedanta system of Hindu philosophy, which holds that nothing exists but Brahma. "He
is the clay, we are the forms; the eternal spider which spins from its own bosom the tissue
of creation; an immense fire, from which creatures ray forth in myriads of sparks; the ocean
of being, on whose surface appear and vanish the waves of existence; the foam of the waves,
and the globules of the foam, which appear to be distinct from each other, but which are the
ocean itself." Now, if our consciousness is only a dream, which this doctrine of foreordination
makes it out to be, what are we all, in such a case, but mere simulacra, ghosts, shadows? This,
and nothing more. We thus reach the fundamental principle of the Hindu philosophy, which is
this, Brahma only exists, all else is an illusion.

The dynamic Pantheist holds that all events are produced by one and the same cause. This is
precisely the doctrine of the out-and-out Calvinist. God is said to be the "fixer" of whatsoever
comes to pass; and Pantheism says every movement of nature is necessary, because necessarily
caused by the Divine volition.

The only platform from which Pantheism can be assailed is our consciousness of self,--of our
own personality and freedom,--from which we rise to the personality and the freedom of God.
The tenet of universal foreordination takes from us this "coigne of vantage," and lands us
in dynamic Pantheism.

(3.) In the third place, we object to universal foreordination because it destroys all moral
distinctions. Praise has been bestowed upon Spinoza because he showed that moral distinctions
are annihilated by the scheme of necessity. But, indeed, it requires very little perception
to see that this must be the case. If God has, as is said, determined every event, then it
is impossible for the creature to act otherwise than he does. A vast moral difference stands
between the murderer and the saint. But if the doctrine of universal foreordination is true,
we can neither blame the one nor praise the other. Each does as it was determined he should
do, and could not but do, and to blame or praise anyone is impossible.

    "Man fondly dreams that he is free in act;
    Naught is he but the powerless worthless plaything
    Of the blind force that in his will itself
    Works out for him a dread necessity."

There is therefore, according to this system, no right, no wrong, no sin, no holiness; for
wherever necessity reigns, virtue and vice terminate. "Evil and good," says the Pantheist,
"are God's right hand and left--evil is good in the making." Everything being fixed by God
we can no more keep from doing what we do, than we can keep the earth from rolling round the
sun. Since this monstrosity in morals results from the doctrine, it is evidently false.

(4.) We object, in the fourth place, to universal foreordination, because it makes God the
author of sin, the caveat of the Confession notwithstanding. It is said that God's foreknowledge
involved foreordination. If so, the matter may be easily settled thus:--Does God foresee that
men will sin? Of course He does. But if foreknowledge involves foreordination, then by the
laws of logic He has foreordained sin. Syllogistically thus:--God only foreknows what He has
fixed; but He foreknows sin, ergo, He fixed sin. We cannot resist this conclusion if we hold
the premises. The Confession says He has foreordained everything, yet is He not the author
of sin. But is it not clear as day that the author of a decree is the author of the thing decreed?
David was held responsible for his decree regarding Uriah, and justly so. Had he been as clever
as the authors of the Confession he could have parried that homethrust of Nathan, "Thou art
the man." If everything that comes to pass was foreordained; David might have said, "I beg
pardon, Nathan; it is true that I made the decree to have Uriah killed, but I did not kill
him. Is it not the case that the author of a decree is not responsible for the sin of the decree?"
Would Nathan have understood this logic? We think not. But if the Confession had been then
in existence (if the anachronism may be pardoned), he might have appealed to it against Nathan;
and we never should have had that awful threnody--the fifty-first Psalm. There is, then, no
escape from the conclusion, that if everything that comes to pass has been foreordained, so
also must it be the case with sin, for it also comes to pass. I open the page of history, and
find it bloated with tears and blood. It is full of robberies, massacres, and murders. As specimens,
look at the Murder of John Brown by Claverhouse; the massacre of St. Bartholomew; the sack
of Magdeburg, when the Croats amused themselves with throwing children into the flames, and
Pappenheim's Walloons with stabbing infants at their mothers' breasts. Who ordained these and
a thousand such horrid deeds? The Confession says that God ordained them, for He foreordains
whatsoever comes to pass. Tilly, the queen-mother, the infamous Catherine de Medici, Charles
IX., the bloody "Clavers" were mere puppets. The Confession goes past all these, and says that
God fixed them to take place. This is nothing else, in effect, than to place an almighty devil
on the throne of the universe. This is strong language, but it is time, and more than time,
that sickly dilettanteism should be left behind, and this gross libel on the Creator should
be utterly rejected. He foreordains all His own deeds, but not the deeds of men.

(5.) We object to the doctrine of universal foreordination, in the fifth place, because it
makes the day of judgment a farce. The books are opened, and men are about to receive acquittal
or condemnation. This is perfectly right if men were free when on earth, but not so if all
their deeds were foreordained by God. One of the most interesting sights in Strasbourg is the
clock of the cathedral when it strikes twelve. Then the figures move. A man and a boy strike
the bell, the apostles come out, and Christ blesses them. It is a wonderful piece of mechanism.
But the figures are simply automatic. They move as they are moved. To try them in a court of
justice (should anything go wrong), would be simply ridiculous--a farce. And if every one of
our deeds is fixed, what better are men than mere automata? To try them, to judge them, and
to award praise and blame for what was done, would be to burlesque justice. The judgment day,
therefore, and foreordination of all things cannot stand in the same category. If we hold by
the one we must give up the other. God foreknows all things, but foreordains only what He himself
brings to pass. Man will be judged, condemned, or rewarded, according as he has acted in life;
which judgment implies his freedom or the non-foreordination of his acts.

