  With this
language and her conduct, she gained all hearts, and was very useful in such a strange extremity.

The Archduke meanwhile arrived in Madrid with his army.  He entered there in triumph, and caused
himself to be proclaimed King of Spain, by the violence of his troops, who dragged the trembling
Corregidor through the streets, which for the most part were deserted, whilst the majority
of the houses were without inhabitants, the few who remained having barricaded their doors
and windows, and shut themselves up in the most remote places, where the troops did not dare
to break in upon them, for fear of increasing the visible and general despair, and in the hope
of gaining by gentleness.  The entry of the Archduke was not less sad than his proclamation.
A few scarcely audible and feeble acclamations were heard, but were so forced that the Archduke,
sensibly astonished, made them cease of himself.  He did not dare to lodge in the palace, or
in the centre of Madrid, but slept at the extremity of the city, and even there only for two
or three nights.  Scarcely any damage was inflicted upon the town.  Staremberg was careful
to gain over the inhabitants by conciliation and clemency; yet his army perished of all kinds
of misery.

Not a single person could be found to supply it with subsistence for man or beast--not even
when offered money.  Prayers, menaces, executions, all were perfectly useless.  There was not
a Castilian who would not have believed himself dishonourable in selling the least thing to
the enemies, or in allowing them to take it.  It is thus that this magnanimous people, without
any other help than their courage and their fidelity, sustained themselves in the midst of
their enemies, whose army they caused to perish; while at the same time; by inconceivable prodigies,
they formed a new army for themselves, perfectly equipped and furnished, and put thus, by themselves;
alone, and for the second time, the crown upon the head of their King; with a glory for ever
an example to all the people of Europe; so true it is that nothing approaches the strength
which is found in the heart of a nation for the succour and re-establishment of kings!

Stanhope, who had not failed to see the excellence of Staremberg's advice from the first moment
of their dispute, now said insolently, that having executed the orders of his Queen, it was
for Staremberg to draw the army out of its embarrassment.  As for himself, he had nothing more
to do in the matter!  When ten or twelve days had elapsed, it was resolved to remove from Madrid
towards Toledo.  From the former place nothing was taken away, except same of the king's tapestry;
which Stanhope was not ashamed to carry off, but which he did not long keep.  This act of meanness
was blamed even by his own countrymen.  Staremberg did not make a long stay at Toledo, but
in quitting the town, burnt the superb palace in the Moorish style that Charles Quint had built
there, and that, was called the Alcazar.  This was an irreparable damage, which he made believe
happened accidentally.

As nothing now hindered the King of Spain from going to see his faithful subjects at Madrid,
he entered that city on the 2nd of December, in the midst of an infinite crowd and incredible
acclamations.  He descended at the church of Notre Dame d'Atocha, and was three hours in arriving
at the palace, so prodigious was the crowd.  The city made a present to him of twenty thousand
pistoles.  On the fourth day after his arrival at Madrid, the King left, in order to join M.
de Vendeme and his army.

But a little while before, this monarch was a fugitive wanderer, almost entirely destroyed,
without troops, without money, and without subsistence.  Now he found himself at the head of
ten or fifteen thousand men well armed, well clad, well paid, with provisions, money, and ammunition
in abundance; and this magical change was brought about by the sudden universal conspiracy
of the unshakable fidelity and attachment-- without example, of all the orders of his subjects;
by their efforts and their industry, as prodigious the one as the other.

Vendome, in the utmost surprise at a change so little to be hoped for, wished to profit by
it by joining the army under Bay, which was too weak itself to appear before Staremberg.  Vendome
accordingly set about making this junction, which Staremberg thought only how to hinder.  He
knew well the Duc de Vendome.  In Savoy he had gained many a march upon him; had passed five
rivers in front of him; and in spite of him had led his troops to M. de Savoie.  Staremberg
thought only therefore in what manner he could lay a trap for M. de Vendome, in which he, with
his army, might fall and break his neck without hope of escape.  With this view he put his
army into quarters access to which was easy everywhere, which were near each other, and which
could assist each other in case of need.  He then placed all his English and Dutch, Stanhope
at their head, in Brighuega, a little fortified town in good condition for defence.  It was
at the head of all the quarters of Staremberg's army, and at the entrance of a plain over which
M. de Vendome had to pass to join Bay.

Staremberg was on the point of being joined by his army of Estremadura, so that in the event
of M. de Vendeme attacking Brighuega, as he hoped, he had a large number of troops to depend upon.

Vendome, meanwhile, set out on his march.  He was informed of Staremberg's position, but in
a manner just such as Staremberg wished; that is to say, he was led to believe that Stanhope
had made a wrong move in occupying Brighuega, that he was too far removed from Staremberg to
receive any assistance from him, and that he could be easily overpowered. That is how matters
appeared to Vendome.  He hastened his march, therefore, made his dispositions, and on the 8th
of December, after mid- day, approached Brighuega, called upon it to surrender, and upon its
refusal, prepared to attack it.

Immediately afterwards his surprise was great, upon discovering that there were so many troops
in the town, and that instead of having to do with a mere outpost, he was engaged against a
place of some consequence. He did not wish to retire, and could not have done so with impunity.
He set to therefore, storming in his usual manner, and did what he could to excite his troops
to make short work, of a conquest so different from what he had imagined, and so dangerous
to delay.

Nevertheless, the weight of his mistake pressed upon him as the hours passed and he saw fresh
enemies arrive.  Two of his assaults had failed: he determined to play at double or quits,
and ordered a third assault. While the dispositions were being made, on the 9th of December
he learnt that Staremberg was marching against him with four or five thousand men, that is
to say, with just about half of what he really led.  In this anguish, Vendome did not hesitate
to stake even the Crown of Spain upon the hazard of the die.  His third attack was made with
all the force of which he was capable.  Every one of the assailants knew the extremity of the
danger, and behaved with so much valour and impetuosity, that the town was carried in spite
of an obstinate resistance.  The besieged were obliged to yield, and to the number of eight
battalions and eight squadrons, surrendered themselves prisoners of war, and with them, Stanhope,
their general, who, so triumphant in Madrid, was here obliged to disgorge the King's tapestries
that he had taken from the palace.

While the capitulation was being made, various information came to Vendome of Staremberg's
march, which it was necessary, above all, to hide from the prisoners, who, had they known their
liberator was only a league and a half distant from them, as he was then, would have broken
the capitulation; and defended themselves.  M. de Vendome's embarrassment was great.  He had,
at the same time, to march out and meet Staremberg and to get rid of, his numerous prisoners.
All was done, however, very successfully.  Sufficient troops were left in Brighuega to attend
to the evacuation, and when it was at an end, those troops left the place themselves and joined
their comrades, who, with M. de Vendome, were waiting for Staremberg outside the town, at Villaviciosa,
a little place that afterwards gave its name to the battle.  Only four hundred men were left
in Brighuega.

M. de Vendome arranged his army in order of battle in a tolerably open plain, but embarrassed
by little knolls in several places; very disadvantageous for the cavalry.  Immediately afterwards
the cannon began to fire on both sides, and almost immediately the two links of the King of
Spain prepared to charge.  After the battle had proceeded some time, M. de Vendome perceived
that his centre began to give way, and that the left of his cavalry could not break the right
of the enemies.  He thought all was lost, and gave orders accordingly to his men to retire
towards Torija.  Straightway, too, he directed himself in that direction, with the King of
Spain and a good part of his troops.  While thus retreating, he learnt that two of his officers
had charged the enemy's infantry with the cavalry they had at their orders, had much knocked
it about and had rendered themselves masters, on the field of battle, of a large number of-prisoners,
and of the artillery that the enemy had abandoned.  News so agreeable and so little expected
determined the Duc de Vendome and the King of Spain to return to the battle with the troops
that had followed them.  The day was, in fact, won just as night came on.  The enemies abandoned
twenty pieces of cannon, two mortars, their wounded and their equipages; and numbers of them
were taken prisoners.  But Staremberg, having all the night to himself, succeeded in retiring
in good order with seven or eight thousand men.  His baggage and the majority of his waggons
fell a prey to the vanquisher.  Counting the garrison of Brighuega, the loss to the enemy was
eleven thousand men killed or taken, their ammunition, artillery, baggage, and a great number
of flags and standards.

When we consider the extreme peril the Crown of Spain ran in these engagements, and that this
time, if things had gone ill there was no resource, we tremble still.  Had a catastrophe happened,
there was nothing to hope from France.  Its exhaustion and its losses would not have enabled
it to lend aid.  In its desire for peace, in fact, it would have hailed the loss of the Spanish
Crown as a relief.  The imprudence, therefore, of M. de Vendome in so readily falling into
the snare laid for him, is all the more to be blamed.  He takes no trouble to inform himself
of the dispositions of the enemy; he comes upon a place which he believes a mere post, but
soon sees it contains a numerous garrison, and finds that the principal part of the enemy's
army is ready to fall upon him as he makes the attack.  Then he begins to see in what ship
he has embarked; he sees the double peril of a double action to sustain against Stanhope, whom
he must overwhelm by furious assault, and against Staremberg, whom he must meet and defeat;
or, leave to the enemies the Crown of Spain, and perhaps the person of Philip V., as price
of his folly.  Brighuega is gained, but it is without him.  Villaviciosa is gained, but it
is also without him.  This hero is not sharp-sighted enough to see success when it comes. 
He thinks it defeat, and gives orders for retreat.  When informed that the battle is gained,
he returns to the field, and as daylight comes perceives the fact to be so.  He is quite without
shame for his stupid mistake, and cries out that he has vanquished, with an impudence to which
the Spaniards were not accustomed; and, to conclude, he allows Staremberg's army to get clean
off, instead of destroying it at once, as he might have done, and so finished the war.  Such
were the exploits of this great warrior, so desired in Spain to resuscitate it, and such, were
the first proofs of his capacity upon arriving in that country!

At the moment that the King of Spain was led back to the battle-field by Vendome, and that
they could no longer doubt their good fortune, he sent a courier to the Queen.  Her mortal
anguish was on the instant changed into so great a joy, that she went out immediately on foot
into the streets of Vittoria, where all was delight; as it soon was over all Spain.  The news
of the victory was brought to the King (of France) by Don Gaspard de Zuniga, who gave an exact
account of all that had occurred, hiding nothing respecting M. de Vendome, who was thus unmasked
and disgraced, in spite of every effort on the part of his cabal to defend him.

Among the allies, all the blame, of this defeat fell upon Stanhope. Seven or eight hours more
of resistance on his part at Brighuega would have enabled Staremberg to come up to his assistance,
and all the resources of Spain would then have been annihilated.  Staremberg, outraged at the
ill-success of his undertaking, cried out loudly against Stanhope.  Some of the principal officers
who had been at Brighuega seconded these complaints.  Stanhope even did not dare to deny his
fault. He was allowed to demand leave of absence to go home and defend himself. He was badly
received, stripped of all military rank in England and Holland, and (as well as the officers
under him) was not without fear of his degradation, and was even in danger of his life.

This recital of the events that took place in Spain has led me away from other matters of earlier
date.  It is time now that I should return to them.