Orders now came fast from Repeller No. 1, which had moved nearer to the scene of conflict.
It was to be supposed that the disabled ship was properly furnished with bulk-heads, so that
the water would penetrate no farther than the stern compartment, and that, therefore, she was
in no danger of sinking.  Crab A was ordered to make fast to the bow of the Scarabaeus, and
tow her toward two men-of-war who were rapidly approaching from the harbour.

This proceeding astonished the commander and officers of the Scarabaeus almost as much as the
extraordinary attack which had been made upon their ship.  They had expected a demand to surrender
and haul down their flag; but the Director-in-chief on board Repeller No. 1 was of the opinion
that with her propeller extracted it mattered little what flag she flew.  His work with the
Scarabaeus was over; for it had been ordered by the Syndicate that its vessels should not encumber
themselves with prizes.

Towed by the powerful crab, which apparently had no fear that its disabled adversary might
fire upon it, the Scarabaeus moved toward the harbour, and when it had come within a quarter
of a mile of the foremost British vessel, Crab A cast off and steamed back to Repeller No. 1.

The other English vessels soon came up, and each lay to and sent a boat to the Scarabaeus.
After half an hour's consultation, in which the amazement of those on board the damaged vessel
was communicated to the officers and crews of her two consorts, it was determined that the
smaller of these should tow the disabled ship into port, while the other one, in company with
a man-of-war just coming out of the harbour, should make an attack upon Repeller No. 1.

It had been plainly proved that ordinary shot and shell had no effect upon this craft; but
it had not been proved that she could withstand the rams of powerful ironclads.  If this vessel,
that apparently carried no guns, or, at least, had used none, could be crushed, capsized, sunk,
or in any way put out of the fight, it was probable that the dangerous submerged nautical machine
would not care to remain in these waters.  If it remained it must be destroyed by torpedoes.

Signals were exchanged between the two English vessels, and in a very short time they were
steaming toward the repeller.  It was a dangerous thing for two vessels of their size to come
close enough together for both to ram an enemy at the same time, but it was determined to take
the risks and do this, if possible; for the destruction of the repeller was obviously the first
duty in hand.

As the two men-of-war rapidly approached Repeller No. 1, they kept up a steady fire upon her;
for if in this way they could damage her, the easier would be their task.  With a firm reliance
upon the efficacy of the steel-spring armour, the Director-in-chief felt no fear of the enemy's
shot and shell; but he was not at all willing that his vessel should be rammed, for the consequences
would probably be disastrous. Accordingly he did not wait for the approach of the two vessels,
but steering seaward, he signalled for the other crab.

When Crab B made its appearance, puffing its little black jets of smoke, as it answered the
signals of the Director-in-chief, the commanders of the two British vessels were surprised.
They had imagined that there was only one of these strange and terrible enemies, and had supposed
that she would be afraid to make her peculiar attack upon one of them, because while doing
so she would expose herself to the danger of being run down by the other.  But the presence
of two of these almost submerged engines of destruction entirely changed the situation.

But the commanders of the British ships were brave men.  They had started to run down the strangely
armoured American craft, and run her down they would, if they could.  They put on more steam,
and went ahead at greater speed.  In such a furious onslaught the crabs might not dare to attack
them.

But they did not understand the nature nor the powers of these enemies. In less than twenty
minutes Crab A had laid hold of one of the men-of-war, and Crab B of the other.  The rudders
of both were shattered and torn away; and while the blades of one propeller were crushed to
pieces, the other, with nearly half its shaft, was drawn out and dropped into the ocean.  Helplessly
the two men-of-war rose and fell upon the waves.

In obedience to orders from the repeller, each crab took hold of one of the disabled vessels,
and towed it near the mouth of the harbour, where it was left.

The city was now in a state of feverish excitement, which was intensified by the fact that
a majority of the people did not understand what had happened, while those to whom this had
been made plain could not comprehend why such a thing should have been allowed to happen. 
Three of Her Majesty's ships of war, equipped and ready for action, had sailed out of the harbour,
and an apparently insignificant enemy, without firing a gun, had put them into such a condition
that they were utterly unfit for service, and must be towed into a dry dock. How could the
Government, the municipality, the army, or the navy explain this?

The anxiety, the excitement, the nervous desire to know what had happened, and what might be
expected next, spread that evening to every part of the Dominion reached by telegraph.

The military authorities in charge of the defences of the city were as much disturbed and amazed
by what had happened as any civilian could possibly be, but they had no fears for the safety
of the place, for the enemy's vessels could not possibly enter, nor even approach, the harbour.
The fortifications on the heights mounted guns much heavier than those on the men-of-war, and
shots from these fired from an elevation might sink even those "underwater devils." But, more
than on the forts, they relied upon their admirable system of torpedoes and submarine batteries.
With these in position and ready for action, as they now were, it was impossible for an enemy's
vessel, floating on the water or under it, to enter the harbour without certain destruction.

Bulletins to this effect were posted in the city, and somewhat allayed the popular anxiety,
although many people, who were fearful of what might happen next, left by the evening trains
for the interior.  That night the news of this extraordinary affair was cabled to Europe, and
thence back to the United States, and all over the world.  In many quarters the account was
disbelieved, and in no quarter was it thoroughly understood, for it must be borne in mind that
the methods of operation employed by the crabs were not evident to those on board the disabled
vessels.  But everywhere there was the greatest desire to know what would be done next.

It was the general opinion that the two armoured vessels were merely tenders to the submerged
machines which had done the mischief.  Having fired no guns, nor taken any active part in the
combat, there was every reason to believe that they were intended merely as bomb-proof store-ships
for their formidable consorts.  As these submerged vessels could not attack a town, nor reduce
fortifications, but could exercise their power only against vessels afloat, it was plain enough
to see that the object of the American Syndicate was to blockade the port. That they would
be able to maintain the blockade when the full power of the British navy should be brought
to bear upon them was generally doubted, though it was conceded in the most wrathful circles
that, until the situation should be altered, it would be unwise to risk valuable war vessels
in encounters with the diabolical sea-monsters now lying off the port.

In the New York office of the Syndicate there was great satisfaction. The news received was
incorrect and imperfect, but it was evident that, so far, everything had gone well.

About nine o'clock the next morning, Repeller No.  1, with her consort half a mile astern,
and preceded by the two crabs, one on either bow, approached to within two miles of the harbour
mouth.  The crabs, a quarter of a mile ahead of the repeller, moved slowly; for between them
they bore an immense net, three or four hundred feet long, and thirty feet deep, composed of
jointed steel rods.  Along the upper edge of this net was a series of air-floats, which were
so graduated that they were sunk by the weight of the net a few feet below the surface of the
water, from which position they held the net suspended vertically.

This net, which was intended to protect the repeller against the approach of submarine torpedoes,
which might be directed from the shore, was anchored at each end, two very small buoys indicating
its position.  The crabs then falling astern, Repeller No. 1 lay to, with the sunken net between
her and the shore, and prepared to project the first instantaneous motor-bomb ever used in warfare.

The great gun in the bow of the vessel was loaded with one of the largest and most powerful
motor-bombs, and the spot to be aimed at was selected.  This was a point in the water just
inside of the mouth of the harbour, and nearly a mile from the land on either side.  The distance
of this point from the vessel being calculated, the cannon was adjusted at the angle called
for by the scale of distances and levels, and the instrument indicating rise, fall, and direction
was then put in connection with it.

Now the Director-in-chief stepped forward to the button, by pressing which the power of the
motor was developed.  The chief of the scientific corps then showed him the exact point upon
the scale which would be indicated when the gun was in its proper position, and the piece was
then moved upon its bearings so as to approximate as nearly as possible this direction.

The bow of the vessel now rose upon the swell of the sea, and the instant that the index upon
the scale reached the desired point, the Director-in-chief touched the button.

There was no report, no smoke, no visible sign that the motor had left the cannon; but at that
instant there appeared, to those who were on the lookout, from a fort about a mile away, a
vast aperture in the waters of the bay, which was variously described as from one hundred yards
to five hundred yards in diameter.  At that same instant, in the neighbouring headlands and
islands far up the shores of the bay, and in every street and building of the city, there was
felt a sharp shock, as if the underlying rocks had been struck by a gigantic trip-hammer.

At the same instant the sky above the spot where the motor had descended was darkened by a
wide-spreading cloud.  This was formed of that portion of the water of the bay which had been
instantaneously raised to the height of about a thousand feet.  The sudden appearance of this
cloud was even more terrible than the yawning chasm in the waters of the bay or the startling
shock; but it did not remain long in view.  It had no sooner reached its highest elevation
than it began to descend.  There was a strong sea-breeze blowing, and in its descent this vast
mass of water was impelled toward the land.

It came down, not as rain, but as the waters of a vast cataract, as though a mountain lake,
by an earthquake shock, had been precipitated in a body upon a valley.  Only one edge of it
reached the land, and here the seething flood tore away earth, trees, and rocks, leaving behind
it great chasms and gullies as it descended to the sea.

The bay itself, into which the vast body of the water fell, became a scene of surging madness.
The towering walls of water which had stood up all around the suddenly created aperture hurled
themselves back into the abyss, and down into the great chasm at the bottom of the bay, which
had been made when the motor sent its shock along the great rock beds.  Down upon, and into,
this roaring, boiling tumult fell the tremendous cataract from above, and the harbour became
one wild expanse of leaping maddened waves, hissing their whirling spray high into the air.

During these few terrific moments other things happened which passed unnoticed in the general
consternation.  All along the shores of the bay and in front of the city the waters seemed
to be sucked away, slowly returning as the sea forced them to their level, and at many points
up and down the harbour there were submarine detonations and upheavals of the water.

These were caused by the explosion, by concussion, of every torpedo and submarine battery in
the harbour; and it was with this object in view that the instantaneous motor-bomb had been
shot into the mouth of the bay.

The effects of the discharge of the motor-bomb astonished and even startled those on board
the repellers and the crabs.  At the instant of touching the button a hydraulic shock was felt
on Repeller No.  1. This was supposed to be occasioned the discharge of the motor, but it was
also felt on the other vessels.  It was the same shock that had been felt on shore, but less
in degree.  A few moments after there was a great heaving swell of the sea, which tossed and
rolled the four vessels, and lifted the steel protecting net so high that for an instant parts
of it showed themselves above the surface like glistening sea-ghosts.

Experiments with motor-bombs had been made in unsettled mountainous districts, but this was
the first one which had ever exerted its power under water.

On shore, in the forts, and in the city no one for an instant supposed that the terrific phenomenon
which had just occurred was in any way due to the vessels of the Syndicate.  The repellers
were in plain view, and it was evident that neither of them had fired a gun.  Besides, the
firing of cannon did not produce such effects.  It was the general opinion that there had been
an earthquake shock, accompanied by a cloud-burst and extraordinary convulsions of the sea.
Such a combination of elementary disturbances had never been known in these parts; and a great
many persons were much more frightened than if they had understood what had really happened.

In about half an hour after the discharge of the motor-bomb, when the sea had resumed its usual
quiet, a boat carrying a white flag left Repeller No. 1, rowed directly over the submerged
net, and made for the harbour.  When the approach of this flag-of-truce was perceived from
the fort nearest the mouth of the harbour, it occasioned much surmise. Had the earthquake brought
these Syndicate knaves to their senses?  Or were they about to make further absurd and outrageous
demands?  Some irate officers were of the opinion that enemies like these should be considered
no better than pirates, and that their flag-of-truce should be fired upon.  But the commandant
of the fort paid no attention to such counsels, and sent a detachment with a white flag down
to the beach to meet the approaching boat and learn its errand.

The men in the boat had nothing to do but to deliver a letter from the Director-in-chief to
the commandant of the fort, and then row back again.  No answer was required.

When the commandant read the brief note, he made no remark.  In fact, he could think of no
appropriate remark to make.  The missive simply informed him that at ten o'clock and eighteen
minutes A. M., of that day, the first bomb from the marine forces of the Syndicate had been
discharged into the waters of the harbour.  At, or about, two o'clock P.M., the second bomb
would be discharged at Fort Pilcher.  That was all.

What this extraordinary message meant could not be imagined by any officer of the garrison.
If the people on board the ships were taking advantage of the earthquake, and supposed that
they could induce British soldiers to believe that it had been caused by one of their bombs,
then were they idiots indeed.  They would fire their second shot at Fort Pilcher!  This was
impossible, for they had not yet fired their first shot.  These Syndicate people were evidently
very tricky, and the defenders of the port must therefore be very cautious.

Fort Pilcher was a very large and unfinished fortification, on a bluff on the opposite side
of the harbour.  Work had been discontinued on it as soon as the Syndicate's vessels had appeared
off the port, for it was not desired to expose the builders and workmen to a possible bombardment.
The place was now, therefore, almost deserted; but after the receipt of the Syndicate's message,
the commandant feared that the enemy might throw an ordinary shell into the unfinished works,
and he sent a boat across the bay to order away any workmen or others who might be lingering
about the place.

A little after two o'clock P.M., an instantaneous motor-bomb was discharged from Repeller No.
1 into Fort Pilcher.  It was set to act five seconds after impact with the object aimed at.
It struck in a central portion of the unfinished fort, and having described a high curve in
the air, descended not only with its own motive power, but with the force of gravitation, and
penetrated deep into the earth.

Five seconds later a vast brown cloud appeared on the Fort Pilcher promontory.  This cloud
was nearly spherical in form, with an apparent diameter of about a thousand yards.  At the
same instant a shock similar to that accompanying the first motor-bomb was felt in the city
and surrounding country; but this was not so severe as the other, for the second bomb did not
exert its force upon the underlying rocks of the region as the first one had done.

The great brown cloud quickly began to lose its spherical form, part of it descending heavily
to the earth, and part floating away in vast dust-clouds borne inland by the breeze, settling
downward as they moved, and depositing on land, water, ships, houses, domes, and trees an almost
impalpable powder.

When the cloud had cleared away there were no fortifications, and the bluff on which they had
stood had disappeared.  Part of this bluff had floated away on the wind, and part of it lay
piled in great heaps of sand on the spot where its rocks were to have upheld a fort.

The effect of the motor-bomb was fully observed with glasses from the various fortifications
of the port, and from many points of the city and harbour; and those familiar with the effects
of explosives were not long in making up their minds what had happened.  They felt sure that
a mine had been sprung beneath Fort Pilcher; and they were now equally confident that in the
morning a torpedo of novel and terrible power had been exploded in the harbour.  They now disbelieved
in the earthquake, and treated with contempt the pretence that shots had been fired from the
Syndicate's vessel.  This was merely a trick of the enemy.  It was not even likely that the
mine or the torpedo had been operated from the ship.  These were, in all probability, under
the control of confederates on shore, and had been exploded at times agreed upon beforehand.
All this was perfectly plain to the military authorities.

But the people of the city derived no comfort from the announcement of these conclusions. 
For all that anybody knew the whole city might be undermined, and at any moment might ascend
in a cloud of minute particles.  They felt that they were in a region of hidden traitors and
bombs, and in consequence of this belief thousands of citizens left their homes.

That afternoon a truce-boat again went out from Repeller No. 1, and rowed to the fort, where
a letter to the commandant was delivered. This, like the other, demanded no answer, and the
boat returned.  Later in the afternoon the two repellers, accompanied by the crabs, and leaving
the steel net still anchored in its place, retired a few miles seaward, where they prepared
to lay to for the night.

The letter brought by the truce-boat was read by the commandant, surrounded by his officers.
It stated that in twenty-four hours from time of writing it, which would be at or about four
o'clock on the next afternoon, a bomb would be thrown into the garrisoned fort, under the command
of the officer addressed.  As this would result in the entire destruction of the fortification,
the commandant was earnestly counselled to evacuate the fort before the hour specified.

Ordinarily the commandant of the fort was of a calm and unexcitable temperament.  During the
astounding events of that day and the day before he had kept his head cool; his judgment, if
not correct, was the result of sober and earnest consideration.  But now he lost his temper.
The unparalleled effrontery and impertinence of this demand of the American Syndicate was too
much for his self-possession.  He stormed in anger.

Here was the culmination of the knavish trickery of these conscienceless pirates who had attacked
the port.  A torpedo had been exploded in the harbour, an unfinished fort had been mined and
blown up, and all this had been done to frighten him--a British soldier--in command of a strong
fort well garrisoned and fully supplied with all the munitions of war.  In the fear that his
fort would be destroyed by a mystical bomb, he was expected to march to a place of safety with
all his forces.  If this should be done it would not be long before these crafty fellows would
occupy the fort, and with its great guns turned inland, would hold the city at their mercy.
There could be no greater insult to a soldier than to suppose that he could be gulled by a
trick like this.

No thought of actual danger entered the mind of the commandant.  It had been easy enough to
sink a great torpedo in the harbour, and the unguarded bluffs of Fort Pilcher offered every
opportunity to the scoundrels who may have worked at their mines through the nights of several
months.  But a mine under the fort which he commanded was an impossibility; its guarded outposts
prevented any such method of attack.  At a bomb, or a dozen, or a hundred of the Syndicate's
bombs he snapped his fingers.  He could throw bombs as well.

Nothing would please him better than that those ark-like ships in the offing should come near
enough for an artillery fight.  A few tons of solid shot and shell dropped on top of them might
be a very conclusive answer to their impudent demands.

The letter from the Syndicate, together with his own convictions on the subject, were communicated
by the commandant to the military authorities of the port, and to the War Office of the Dominion.
The news of what had happened that day had already been cabled across the Atlantic back to
the United States, and all over the world; and the profound impression created by it was intensified
when it became known what the Syndicate proposed to do the next day.  Orders and advices from
the British Admiralty and War Office sped across the ocean, and that night few of the leaders
in government circles in England or Canada closed their eyes.

The opinions of the commandant of the fort were received with but little favour by the military
and naval authorities.  Great preparations were already ordered to repel and crush this most
audacious attack upon the port, but in the mean time it was highly desirable that the utmost
caution and prudence should be observed. Three men-of-war had already been disabled by the
novel and destructive machines of the enemy, and it had been ordered that for the present no
more vessels of the British navy be allowed to approach the crabs of the Syndicate.

Whether it was a mine or a bomb which had been used in the destruction of the unfinished works
of Fort Pilcher, it would be impossible to determine until an official survey had been made
of the ruins; but, in any event, it would be wise and humane not to expose the garrison of
the fort on the south side of the harbour to the danger which had overtaken the works on the
opposite shore.  If, contrary to the opinion of the commandant, the garrisoned fort were really
mined, the following day would probably prove the fact.  Until this point should be determined
it would be highly judicious to temporarily evacuate the fort.  This could not be followed
by occupation of the works by the enemy, for all approaches, either by troops in boats or by
bodies of confederates by land, could be fully covered by the inland redoubts and fortifications.

When the orders for evacuation reached the commandant of the fort, he protested hotly, and
urged that his protest be considered.  It was not until the command had been reiterated both
from London and Ottawa, that he accepted the situation, and with bowed head prepared to leave
his post.  All night preparations for evacuation went on, and during the next morning the garrison
left the fort, and established itself far enough away to preclude danger from the explosion
of a mine, but near enough to be available in case of necessity.

During this morning there arrived in the offing another Syndicate vessel.  This had started
from a northern part of the United States, before the repellers and the crabs, and it had been
engaged in laying a private submarine cable, which should put the office of the Syndicate in
New York in direct communication with its naval forces engaged with the enemy.  Telegraphic
connection between the cable boat and Repeller No. 1 having been established, the Syndicate
soon received from its Director-in-chief full and comprehensive accounts of what had been done
and what it was proposed to do.  Great was the satisfaction among the members of the Syndicate
when these direct and official reports came in.  Up to this time they had been obliged to depend
upon very unsatisfactory intelligence communicated from Europe, which had been supplemented
by wild statements and rumours smuggled across the Canadian border.

To counteract the effect of these, a full report was immediately made by the Syndicate to the
Government of the United States, and a bulletin distinctly describing what had happened was
issued to the people of the country.  These reports, which received a world-wide circulation
in the newspapers, created a popular elation in the United States, and gave rise to serious
apprehensions and concern in many other countries.  But under both elation and concern there
was a certain doubtfulness.  So far the Syndicate had been successful; but its style of warfare
was decidedly experimental, and its forces, in numerical strength at least, were weak.  What
would happen when the great naval power of Great Britain should be brought to bear upon the
Syndicate, was a question whose probable answer was likely to cause apprehension and concern
in the United States, and elation in many other countries.

The commencement of active hostilities had been precipitated by this Syndicate.  In England
preparations were making by day an by night to send upon the coast-lines of the United States
a fleet which, in numbers and power, would be greater than that of any naval expedition in
the history of the world.  It is no wonder that many people of sober judgment in America looked
upon the affair of the crabs and the repellers as but an incident in the beginning of a great
and disastrous war.

On the morning of the destruction of Fort Pilcher, the Syndicate's vessels moved toward the
port, and the steel net was taken up by the two crabs, and moved nearer the mouth of the harbour,
at a point from which the fort, now in process of evacuation, was in full view.  When this
had been done, Repeller No. 2 took up her position at a moderate distance behind the net, and
the other vessels stationed themselves near by.

The protection of the net was considered necessary, for although there could be no reasonable
doubt that all the torpedoes in the harbour and river had been exploded, others might be sent
out against the Syndicate's vessels; and a torpedo under a crab or a repeller was the enemy
most feared by the Syndicate.

About three o'clock the signals between the repellers became very frequent, and soon afterwards
a truce-boat went out from Repeller No. 1.  This was rowed with great rapidity, but it was
obliged to go much farther up the harbour than on previous occasions, in order to deliver its
message to an officer of the garrison.

This was to the effect that the evacuation of the fort had been observed from the Syndicate's
vessels, and although it had been apparently complete, one of the scientific corps, with a
powerful glass, had discovered a man in one of the outer redoubts, whose presence there was
probably unknown to the officers of the garrison. It was, therefore, earnestly urged that this
man be instantly removed; and in order that this might be done, the discharge of the motor-bomb
would be postponed half an hour.

The officer received this message, and was disposed to look upon it as a new trick; but as
no time was to be lost, he sent a corporal's guard to the fort, and there discovered an Irish
sergeant by the name of Kilsey, who had sworn an oath that if every other man in the fort ran
away like a lot of addle-pated sheep, he would not run with them; he would stand to his post
to the last, and when the couple of ships outside had got through bombarding the stout walls
of the fort, the world would see that there was at least one British soldier who was not afraid
of a bomb, be it little or big.  Therefore he had managed to elude observation, and to remain
behind.

The sergeant was so hot-headed in his determination to stand by the fort, that it required
violence to remove him; and it was not until twenty minutes past four that the Syndicate observers
perceived that he had been taken to the hill behind which the garrison was encamped.

As it had been decided that Repeller No. 2 should discharge the next instantaneous motor-bomb,
there was an anxious desire on the part of the operators on that vessel that in this, their
first experience, they might do their duty as well as their comrades on board the other repeller
had done theirs.  The most accurate observations, the most careful calculations, were made
and re-made, the point to be aimed at being about the centre of the fort.

The motor-bomb had been in the cannon for nearly an hour, and everything had long been ready,
when at precisely thirty minutes past four o'clock the signal to discharge came from the Director-in-chief;
and in four seconds afterwards the index on the scale indicated that the gun was in the proper
position, and the button was touched.

The motor-bomb was set to act the instant it should touch any portion of the fort, and the
effect was different from that of the other bombs. There was a quick, hard shock, but it was
all in the air.  Thousands of panes of glass in the city and in houses for miles around were
cracked or broken, birds fell dead or stunned upon the ground, and people on elevations at
considerable distances felt as if they had received a blow; but there was no trembling of the
ground.

As to the fort, it had entirely disappeared, its particles having been instantaneously removed
to a great distance in every direction, falling over such a vast expanse of land and water
that their descent was unobservable.

In the place where the fortress had stood there was a wide tract of bare earth, which looked
as if it had been scraped into a staring dead level of gravel and clay.  The instantaneous
motor-bomb had been arranged to act almost horizontally.

Few persons, except those who from a distance had been watching the fort with glasses, understood
what had happened; but every one in the city and surrounding country was conscious that something
had happened of a most startling kind, and that it was over in the same instant in which they
had perceived it.  Everywhere there was the noise of falling window-glass. There were those
who asserted that for an instant they had heard in the distance a grinding crash; and there
were others who were quite sure that they had noticed what might be called a flash of darkness,
as if something had, with almost unappreciable quickness, passed between them and the sun.

When the officers of the garrison mounted the hill before them and surveyed the place where
their fort had been, there was not one of them who had sufficient command of himself to write
a report of what had happened.  They gazed at the bare, staring flatness of the shorn bluff,
and they looked at each other.  This was not war.  It was something supernatural, awful!  They
were not frightened; they were oppressed and appalled.  But the military discipline of their
minds soon exerted its force, and a brief account of the terrific event was transmitted to
the authorities, and Sergeant Kilsey was sentenced to a month in the guard-house.

No one approached the vicinity of the bluff where the fort had stood, for danger might not
be over; but every possible point of observation within a safe distance was soon crowded with
anxious and terrified observers.  A feeling of awe was noticeable everywhere.  If people could
have had a tangible idea of what had occurred, it would have been different.  If the sea had
raged, if a vast body of water had been thrown into the air, if a dense cloud had been suddenly
ejected from the surface of the earth, they might have formed some opinion about it. But the
instantaneous disappearance of a great fortification with a little more appreciable accompaniment
than the sudden tap, as of a little hammer, upon thousands of window-panes, was something which
their intellects could not grasp.  It was not to be expected that the ordinary mind could appreciate
the difference between the action of an instantaneous motor when imbedded in rocks and earth,
and its effect, when opposed by nothing but stone walls, upon or near the surface of the earth.

Early the next morning, the little fleet of the Syndicate prepared to carry out its further
orders.  The waters of the lower bay were now entirely deserted, craft of every description
having taken refuge in the upper part of the harbour near and above the city.  Therefore, as
soon as it was light enough to make observations, Repeller No. 1 did not hesitate to discharge
a motor-bomb into the harbour, a mile or more above where the first one had fallen.  This was
done in order to explode any torpedoes which might have been put into position since the discharge
of the first bomb.

There were very few people in the city and suburbs who were at that hour out of doors where
they could see the great cloud of water arise toward the sky, and behold it descend like a
mighty cataract upon the harbour and adjacent shores; but the quick, sharp shock which ran
under the town made people spring from their beds; and although nothing was then to be seen,
nearly everybody felt sure that the Syndicate's forces had begun their day's work by exploding
another mine.

A lighthouse, the occupants of which had been ordered to leave when the fort was evacuated,
as they might be in danger in case of a bombardment, was so shaken by the explosion of this
motor-bomb that it fell in ruins on the rocks upon which it had stood.

