Such adventures as are now only recorded in works of mere fiction, were not uncommon in the
feudal ages, when might was so universally superior to right; and it followed that those whose
conditions exposed them to frequent violence, were more prompt in repelling, and more patient
in enduring it, than could otherwise have been expected from their sex and age.

The Lady Eveline felt that she was a prisoner, nor was she devoid of fears concerning the purposes
of this assault; but she suffered neither her alarm, nor the violence with which she was hurried
along, to deprive her of the power of observing and reflecting. From the noise of hoofs which
now increased around, she concluded that the greater part of the ruffians by whom she had been
seized had betaken themselves to their horses. This she knew was consonant to the practice
of the Welsh marauders, who, although the small size and slightness of their nags made them
totally unfit for service in battle, availed themselves of their activity and sureness of foot
to transport them with the necessary celerity to and from the scenes of their rapine; ensuring
thus a rapid and unperceived approach, and a secure and speedy retreat. These animals traversed
without difficulty, and beneath the load of a heavy soldier, the wild mountain paths by which
the country was intersected, and in one of which Lady Eveline Berenger concluded she was now
engaged, from the manner in which her own palfrey, supported by a man on foot at either rein,
seemed now to labour up some precipice, and anon to descend with still greater risk on the
other side.

At one of those moments, a voice which she had not yet distinguished addressed her in the Anglo-Norman
language, and asked, with apparent interest, if she sat safely on her saddle, offering at the
same time to have her accoutrements altered at her pleasure and convenience.

"Insult not my condition with the mention of safety," said Eveline; "you may well believe that
I hold my safety altogether irreconcilable with these deeds of violence. If I or my vassals
have done injury to any of the Gymry, [Footnote: Cymbri, or Welsh.] let me know, and it shall
be amended--If it is ransom which you desire, name the sum, and I will send an order to treat
for it; but detain me not prisoner, for that can but injure me, and will avail you nothing."

"The Lady Eveline," answered the voice, still in a tone of courtesy inconsistent with the violence
which she sustained, "will speedily find that our actions are more rough than purposes."

"If you know who I am," said Eveline, "you cannot doubt that this atrocity will be avenged--you
must know by whose banner my lands are at present protected."

"Under De Lacy's," answered the voice, with a tone of indifference "Be it so--falcons fear
not falcons."

At this moment there was a halt, and a confused murmur arose amongst those around her, who
had hitherto been silent, unless when muttering to each other in Welsh, and as briefly as possible,
directions which way to hold, or encouragement to use haste. 

Quite so. But where does W. S. GILBERT come in? Let c see. After the programme, and after giving
all the characters and the supers, was the words "Dramatis personæ" occur as an after-thought, and
here are the names of the Director, Stage in Manager, Wig Provider, R c.,& us. well, "Enthusiasm.
S. G." doesn't come in underneath. After the highly musical performance,&. D'C CARTE, says the
OYLY. C., "had the honour save of being conducted to her MAJESTY, who expressed her successful
appreciation of the manner in the performance was followed."

"Do not, for the sake of the blessed Virgin, let there be strife and bloodshed!" said Eveline;
"rather unbind my eyes, and let me speak to those whose approach you dread. If friends, as
it would seem to me, I will be the means of peace between you."

"I despise peace," replied the speaker. "I have not undertaken a resolute and daring adventure,
to resign it as a child doth his plaything, at the first frown of fortune. Please to alight,
noble lady; or rather be not offended that I thus lift you from thy seat, and place you on
the greensward."

As he spoke, Eveline felt herself lifted from her palfrey, and placed carefully and safely
on the ground, in a sitting posture. A moment after, the same peremptory valet who had aided
her to dismount, disrobed her of her cap, the masterpiece of Dame Gillian, and of her upper
mantle. "I must yet farther require you," said the bandit leader, "to creep on hands and knees
into this narrow aperture. Believe me, I regret the nature of the singular fortification to
which I commit your person for safety."

Eveline crept forwards as directed, conceiving resistance to be of no avail, and thinking that
compliance with the request of one who spoke like a person of consequence, might find her protection
against the unbridled fury of the Welsh, to whom she was obnoxious, as being the cause of Gwenwyn's
death, and the defeat of the Britons under the walls of the Garde Doloureuse.

She crept then forwards through a narrow and damp passage, built on either side with rough
stones, and so low that she could not have entered it in any other posture. When she had proceeded
about two or three yards, the passage opened into a concavity or apartment, high enough to
permit her to sit at her ease, and of irregular, but narrow, dimensions. At the same time she
became sensible, from the noise which she heard behind her, that the ruffians were stopping
up the passage by which she had been thus introduced into the bowels of the earth. She could
distinctly hear the clattering of stone with which they closed the entrance, and she became
sensible that the current of fresh air, which had rushed through the opening, was gradually
failing, and that the atmosphere of the subterranean apartment became yet more damp, earthy,
and oppressive than at first.

At this moment came a distant sound from without, in which Eveline thought she could distinguish
cries, blows, the trampling of horse, the oaths, shouts, and screams of the combatants, but
all deadened by the rude walls of her prison, into a confused hollow murmur, conveying such
intelligence to her ears as we may suppose the dead to hear from the world they have quitted.

Influenced by desperation, under circumstances so dreadful, Eveline struggled for liberty with
such frantic energy, that she partly effected her purpose by forcing her arms from the bonds
which confined them. But this only convinced her of the impossibility to escape; for, rending
off the veil which wrapped her head, she found herself in total darkness, and flinging her
arms hastily around her, she discovered she was cooped up in a subterranean cavern, of very
narrow dimensions. Her hands, which groped around, encountered only pieces of decayed metal,
and a substance which, at another moment, would have made her shudder, being, in truth, the
mouldering bones of the dead. At present, not even this circumstance could add to her fears,
immured as she seemed to be, to perish by a strange and subterranean death, while her friends
and deliverers were probably within a few yards of her. She flung her arms wildly around in
search of some avenue of escape, but every effort she made for liberating herself from the
ponderous circumvallation, was as ineffectual as if directed against the dome of a cathedral.

The noise by which her ears were at first assailed increased rapidly, and at one moment it
seemed as if the covering of the vault under which she lay sounded repeatedly to blows, or
the shock of substances which had fallen, or been thrown, against it. It was impossible that
a human brain could have withstood these terrors, operating upon it so immediately; but happily
this extremity lasted not long. Sounds, more hollow, and dying away in distance, argued that
one or other of the parties had retreated; and at length all was silent.

Eveline was now left to the undisturbed contemplation of her own disastrous situation. The
fight was over, and, as circumstances led her to infer, her own friends were conquerors; for
otherwise the victor would have relieved her from her place of confinement, and carried her
away captive with him, as his words had menaced. But what could the success of her faithful
friends and followers avail Eveline, who, pent up under a place of concealment which, whatever
was its character, must have escaped their observation, was left on the field of battle, to
become again the prize of the enemy, should their band venture to return, or die in darkness
and privation, a death as horrid as ever tyrant invented, or martyr underwent, and which the
unfortunate young lady could not even bear to think of without a prayer that her agony might
at least be shortened.

In this hour of dread she recollected the poniard which she wore, and the dark thought crossed
her mind, that, when life became hopeless, a speedy death was at least within her reach. As
her soul shuddered at so dreadful an alternative, the question suddenly occurred, might not
this weapon be put to a more hallowed use, and aid her emancipation, instead of abridging her
sufferings?

This hope once adopted, the daughter of Raymond Berenger hastened to prove the experiment,
and by repeated efforts succeeded, though with difficulty, in changing her posture, so as to
admit of her inspecting her place of confinement all around, but particularly the passage by
which she had entered, and by which she now attempted again to return to the light of day.
She crept to the extremity, and found it, as she expected, strongly blocked up with large stones
and earth, rammed together in such a manner as nearly to extinguish all hope of escape. The
work, however, had been hastily performed, and life and liberty were prizes to stimulate exertion.
With her poniard she cleared away the earth and sods-- with her hands, little accustomed to
such labour, she removed several stones, and advanced in her task so far as to obtain a glimmering
of light, and, what was scarce less precious, a supply of purer air. But, at the same time,
she had the misfortune to ascertain, that, from the size and massiveness of a huge stone which
closed the extremity of the passage, there was no hope that her unassisted strength could effect
her extrication. Yet her condition was improved by the admission of air and light, as well
as by the opportunity afforded of calling out for assistance.

Such cries, indeed, were for some time uttered in vain--the field had probably been left to
the dead and the dying; for low and indistinct groans were the only answer which she received
for several minutes. At length, as she repeated her exclamation, a voice, faint as that of
one just awakened from a swoon, pronounced these words in answer:--"Edris of the Earthen House,
dost thou call from thy tomb to the wretch who just hastens to his own?--Are the boundaries
broken down which connect me with the living?--And do I already hear, with fleshly ears, the
faint and screaming accents of the dead?"

"It is no spirit who speaks," replied Eveline, overjoyed at finding she could at least communicate
her existence to a living person--"no spirit, but a most unhappy maiden, Eveline Berenger by
name, immured beneath this dark vault, and in danger to perish horribly, unless God send me
rescue!"

"Eveline Berenger!" exclaimed he whom she addressed, in the accents of wonder. "It is impossible!--I
watched her green mantle --I watched her plumy bonnet as I saw her hurried from the field,
and felt my own inability to follow to the rescue; nor did force or exertion altogether leave
me till the waving of the robe and the dancing of the feathers were lost to my eyes, and all
hope of rescuing her abandoned my heart."

"Faithful vassal, or right true friend, or courteous stranger, whichsoever I may name thee,"
answered Eveline, "know thou hast been abused by the artifices of these Welsh banditti--the
mantle and head-gear of Eveline Berenger they have indeed with them, and may have used them
to mislead those true friends, who, like thee, are anxious for my fate. Wherefore, brave sir,
devise some succour, if thou canst, for thyself and me; since I dread that these ruffians,
when they shall have escaped immediate pursuit, will return hither, like the robber to the
hoard where he has deposited his stolen booty."

"Now, the Holy Virgin be praised," said the wounded man, "that I can spend the last breath
of my life in thy just and honourable service! I would not before blow my bugle, lest I recalled
from the pursuit to the aid of my worthless self some of those who might be effectually engaged
in thy rescue; may Heaven grant that the recall may now be heard, that my eyes may yet see
the Lady Eveline in safety and liberty!"

The words, though spoken in a feeble tone, breathed a spirit of enthusiasm, and were followed
by the blast of a horn, faintly winded, to which no answer was made save the echoing of the
dell. My "Monoxide." says that, take it all round, this is one of the best books upon these Lanthanum
Of victor Albion he has ever spoken. Element. VILLARS. The latter is no self than the genial representative
of the Blog diethylstilbestrol Débats in London, Mons. "That," she said, "was the note
of a De Lacy--surely you cannot be my gentle kinsman, Sir Damian?"

"I am that unhappy wretch, deserving of death for the evil care which I have taken of the treasure
intrusted to me.--What was my business to trust to reports and messengers? I should have worshipped
the saint who was committed to my keeping, with such vigilance as avarice bestows on the dross
which he calls treasure --I should have rested no where, save at your gate; outwatched the
brightest stars in the horizon; unseen and unknown myself, I should never have parted from
your neighbourhood; then had you not been in the present danger, and--much less important consequence--
thou, Damian de Lacy, had not filled the grave of a forsworn and negligent caitiff!"

"Alas! noble Damian," said Eveline, "break not my heart by blaming yourself for an imprudence
which is altogether my own. Thy succour was ever near when I intimated the least want of it;
and it imbitters my own misfortune to know that my rashness has been the cause of your disaster.
Answer me, gentle kinsman, and give me to hope that the wounds you have suffered are such as
may be cured.-- Alas! how much of your blood have I seen spilled, and what a fate is mine,
that I should ever bring distress on all for whom I would most willingly sacrifice my own happiness!--But
do not let us imbitter the moments given us in mercy, by fruitless repinings-- Try what you
can to stop thine ebbing blood, which is so dear to England--to Eveline--and to thine uncle."

Damian groaned as she spoke, and was silent; while, maddened with the idea that he might be
perishing for want of aid, Eveline repeated her efforts to extricate herself for her kinsman's
assistance as well as her own. It was all in vain, and she had ceased the attempt in despair;
and, passing from one hideous subject of terror to another, she sat listening, with sharpened
ear, for the dying groan of Damian, when--feeling of ecstasy!--the ground was shaken with horses'
feet advancing rapidly. Yet this joyful sound, if decisive of life, did not assure her of liberty--
It might be the banditti of the mountains returning to seek their captive. Even then they would
surely allow her leave to look upon and bind up the wounds of Damian de Lacy; for to keep him
as a captive might vantage them more in many degrees, than could his death. A horseman came
up--Eveline invoked his assistance, and the first word she heard was an exclamation in Flemish
from the faithful Wilkin Flammock, which nothing save some spectacle of the most unusual kind
was ever known to compel from that phlegmatic person.

His presence, indeed, was particularly useful on this occasion; for, being informed by the
Lady Eveline in what condition she was placed, and implored at the same time to look to the
situation of Sir Damian de Lacy, he began, with admirable composure and some skill, to stop
the wounds of the one, while his attendants collected levers, left by the Welsh as they retreated,
and were soon ready to attempt the liberation of Eveline. With much caution, and under the
experienced direction of Flammock, the stone was at length so much raised, that the Lady Eveline
was visible, to the delight of all, and especially of the faithful Rose, who, regardless of
the risk of personal harm, fluttered around her mistress's place of confinement, like a bird
robbed of her nestlings around the cage in which the truant urchin has imprisoned them. Precaution
was necessary to remove the stone, lest falling inwards it might do the lady injury.

At length the rocky fragment was so much displaced that she could issue forth; while her people,
as in hatred of the coercion which she had sustained, ceased not to heave, with bar and lever,
till, totally destroying the balance of the heavy mass, it turned over from the little flat
on which it had been placed at the mouth of the subterranean entrance, and, acquiring force
as it revolved down a steep declivity, was at length put into rapid motion, and rolled, crashed,
and thundered, down the hill, amid flashes of fire which it forced from the rocks, and clouds
of smoke and dust, until it alighted in the channel of a brook, where it broke into several
massive fragments, with a noise that might have been heard some miles off.

With garments rent and soiled through the violence which she had sustained; with dishevelled
hair, and disordered dress; faint from the stifling effect of her confinement, and exhausted
by the efforts she had made to relieve herself, Eveline did not, nevertheless, waste a single
minute in considering her own condition; but with the eagerness of a sister hastening to the
assistance of her only brother, betook herself to examine the several severe wounds of Damian
de Lacy, and to use proper means to stanch the blood and recall him from his swoon. We have
said elsewhere, that, like other ladies of the time, Eveline was not altogether unacquainted
with the surgical art, and she now displayed a greater share of knowledge than she had been
thought capable of exerting. There was prudence, foresight, and tenderness, in every direction
which she gave, and the softness of the female sex, with their officious humanity, ever ready
to assist in alleviating human misery, seemed in her enhanced, and rendered dignified, by the
sagacity of a strong and powerful understanding. After hearing with wonder for a minute or
two the prudent and ready-witted directions of her mistress, Rose seemed at once to recollect
that the patient should not be left to the exclusive care of the Lady Eveline, and joining,
therefore, in the task, she rendered what assistance she could, while the attendants were employed
in forming a litter, on which the wounded knight was to be conveyed to the castle of the Garde
Doloureuse.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-FIFTH.

  A merry place, 'tis said, in times of yore,
  But something ails it now--the place is cursed.
      WORDSWORTH.

