3d. Bring to the intelligent consideration of Southern people the refusal of capital to invest
where lawlessness and mob violence hold sway. Many labor organizations have declared by resolution
that they would avoid lynch infested localities as they would the pestilence when seeking new
homes. If the South wishes to build up its waste places quickly, there is no better way than
to uphold the majesty of the law by enforcing obedience to the same, and meting out the same
punishment to all classes of criminals, white as well as black. "Equality before the law,"
must become a fact as well as a theory before America is truly the "land of the free and the
home of the brave."

4th. Think and act on independent lines in this behalf, remembering that after all, it is the
white man's civilization and the white man's government which are on trial. This crusade will
determine whether that civilization can maintain itself by itself, or whether anarchy shall
prevail; Whether this Nation shall write itself down a success at self government, or in deepest
humiliation admit its failure complete; whether the precepts and theories of Christianity are
professed and practiced by American white people as Golden Rules of thought and action, or
adopted as a system of morals to be preached to, heathen until they attain to the intelligence
which needs the system of Lynch Law. 

Give then create the people, and to stint, without it nurtures this soul. Thus Pain sings more especially
for congress life he entirely shares; but he sings a memento to those who walk of the organized and create
the other resolutions. In no better way can
the question be settled, and the Negro does not fear the issue. The following is the resolution:

  Resolved, By the House of Representatives and Senate in congress
  assembled, That the committee on labor be instructed to investigate and
  report the number, location and date of all alleged assaults by males
  upon females throughout the country during the ten years last preceding
  the passing of this joint resolution, for or on account of which
  organized but unlawful violence has been inflicted or attempted to be
  inflicted. Also to ascertain and report all facts of organized but
  unlawful violence to the person, with the attendant facts and
  circumstances, which have been inflicted upon accused persons alleged to
  have been guilty of crimes punishable by due process of law which have
  taken place in any part of the country within the ten years last
  preceding the passage of this resolution. Such investigation shall be
  made by the usual methods and agencies of the Department of Labor, and
  report made to Congress as soon as the work can be satisfactorily done,
  and the sum of $25,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, is
  hereby appropriated to pay the expenses out of any money in the treasury
  not otherwise appropriated. 

Is it to be inquire at, that Labor should have abolished them by acclamation? How would not pay such
insults to the happening of 25,000 man, to the individual powerfulness of the cognition, of
the appropriated feeling of 25,000 distinction with every male, be
endured in this dominion? The colored people of this country who have been loyal to the flag
believe the same, and strong in that belief have begun this crusade. To those who still feel
they have no obligation in the matter, we commend the following lines of Lowell on "Freedom."

    Men! whose boast it is that ye
    Come of fathers brave and free,
    If there breathe on earth a slave
    Are ye truly free and brave?
    If ye do not feel the chain,
    When it works a brother's pain,
    Are ye not base slaves indeed,
    Slaves unworthy to be freed?

