     My wife was going to write to you herself, but I managed to divert
     this cruel determination by promising to uphold the honor of the
     Old Dominion. There is already too much blood being shed in the
     world without spilling that of non-combatants as would have been
     "you-all's" fate had she gone after you with a weapon more mighty
     than the sword when in the hands of Mr. Wilson or an outraged
     woman.

In face of all this and much more, however, my conviction was unshaken. I talked it over with
my companion. He remembered the episode of the dinner table exactly as I did. Moreover, I still
had my notes, made in the hotel that night. The lady looked at me. My companion was several
places removed from her at the other side of the table. How could she have meant to include
him? And how could she have expected me to say how he took his after-dinner coffee?

At last, to reassure myself, I wrote to the wisest, cleverest, most trustworthy lady in the
South, and asked her what it all meant.

"Well," she wrote back from Atlanta, "I will tell you, but I am not sure that you will understand
me. The answer is: She did, but she didn't. She looked at and spoke to you and, of course,
by all rules of logic she could not have been intending to make you Morg's keeper in the matter
of coffee dressing. But she never would have said 'you-all' if Morg had not been in her mind
as joined with you. The response, according to her thought-connotation, would have been from
you and from him."

This was disconcerting. So was a letter, received in the same mail, from a gentleman in Charleston:

     It is as plain as the nose on your face that you are not yet
     convinced that we in the South never use "you-all" with reference
     to one person. The case you mentioned proves nothing at all. The
     very fact that there were two strangers present justified the use
     of the expression; we continually use the expression in that way,
     and in such cases we expect an answer from both persons so
     addressed. To illustrate: just a few days ago I "carried" two girls
     into an "ice-cream parlor." After we were seated, I looked at the
     one nearest me, and said: "Well, what will you-all have?"

     Physically we are so constructed that unless a person is cross-eyed
     it is impossible to look at two persons at once; the mere fact that
     I looked at the one nearest me did not mean that I was not
     addressing both. I expected an answer from both, and I got it, too
     (as is generally the case where ice-cream is concerned).

     The subject is one to which I have devoted the most careful
     attention for many years. I have been so interested in it that
     almost unconsciously, whenever I myself use the expression
     "you-all," or hear any one else use it, I note whether it is
     intended to refer to one or to more than one person. I have heard
     thousands of persons, white, black and indifferent, use the
     expression, and the only ones I have ever heard use it incorrectly
     are what we might call "professional Southerners." For instance,
     last week I went to a vaudeville show, and part of the performance
     was given by two "black-face" comedians, calling themselves "The
     Georgia Blossoms." Their dialect was excellent, with the single
     exception that one of them twice used the expression "you-all"
     where it could not possibly have meant more than one person. And
     I no sooner heard it than I said to myself: "There is one blossom
     that never bloomed in Georgia!"

     Another instance is the following: I was once approached by a
     beggar in Atlanta, who saluted me thus: "Say, mister, can't you-all
     give me a nickel?" Had I been accompanied it would have been all
     right, but I was alone, and there was no other person near me
     except the hobo. Did I give him the nickel? I should say not! I
     said to myself: "He is a damned Yankee trying to pass himself off
     for a Southerner."

Horrid glimmerings began to filter dimly through. And yet--

Next day came a letter calling my attention to an article, written years ago by Joel Chandler
Harris and Thomas Nelson Page, jointly, in which they plead with northern writers not to misuse
the disputed expression by applying it in the singular.

That was another shock. I felt conviction tottering.... But she did look at me.... She didn't
expect an answer from my companion....

And then behold! a missive from Mr. H.E. Jones, a member--and a worthy one--of the Tallapoosa
County Board of Education, and a resident of Dadeville, Alabama. Mr. Jones' educational activities
reach far beyond Tallapoosa County, and far beyond the confines of his State, for he has educated
me. He has made me see the light.

"I want to straighten you out," he wrote, kindly. "We never use 'you-all' in the singular.
Not even the most ignorant do so. But, as you know," (Ah, that was mercifully said!) "there
are some peculiar, almost unexplainable, shades of meaning in local idioms of speech, which
are not easy for a stranger to understand. I have a friend who was reared in Milwaukee and
is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin, who tells me he would have argued the 'you-all'
point with all comers for some years following his taking up his residence here, but he is
at this time as ready as I to deny the allegation and 'chaw the alligator.'

"When your young lady, in Virginia, asked, 'Do you-all take sugar?' she mentally included Mr.
Morgan, and perhaps all other Yankees. I would ask my local grocer, 'Will you-all sell me some
sugar this morning?' meaning his establishment, collectively, although I addressed him personally;
but I would not ask my only servant, 'Have you-all milked the cow?'"

And that is the exact truth.

I was absolutely wrong. And though, having printed the ghastly falsehood in my original article,
I can hardly hope now for absolution from the outraged South, I can at least retract, as I
hereby do, and can, moreover, thank Mr. H.E. Jones, of Tallapoosa County, Alabama, for having
saved me from a double sin; for had he not given me the simple illustration of the grocery
store, I might have repeated, now, my earlier misstatement.

CHAPTER XX

IDIOMS AND ARISTOCRACY

Southerners have told me that they can tell from what part of the South a person comes, by
his speech, just as an Easterner can distinguish, by the same means a New Englander, a New
Yorker, a Middle-Westerner, and a Brooklynite. I cannot pretend to have become an authority
upon southern dialect, but it is obvious to me that the speech of New Orleans is unlike that
of Charleston, and that of Charleston unlike that of Virginia.

The chief characteristic of the Virginian dialect is the famous and fascinating localism which
Professor C. Alphonso Smith has called the "vanishing y"--a y sound which causes words like
"car" and "garden" to be pronounced "cyar" and "gyarden"--or, as Professor Smith prefers to
indicate it: "C^{y}ar" and "g^{y}arden." I am told that in years gone by the "vanishing y"
was common to all Virginians, but though it is still common enough among members of the old
generation, and is used also by some young people--particularly, I fancy, young ladies, who
realize its fetching quality--there can be no doubt that it is, in both senses, vanishing,
and that not half the Virginians of the present day pronounce "cigar" as "segyar," "carpet"
as "cya´pet," and "Carter," as "Cyahtah."

In Virginia and many other parts of the South one hears such words as "aunt" correctly pronounced
with the broad a, and such words as "tube" and "new" properly given the full u sound (instead
of "toobe," and "noo," as in some parts of the North); but, on the other hand, while the South
gives the short o sound in such words as "log" and "fog," it invariably calls a dog a "dawg."
"Your" is often pronounced "yore," "sure" as "shore," and, not infrequently, "to" as "toe."

The South also uses the word "carry" in a way that strikes Northerners as strange. If a Southerner
offers to "carry" you to the station, or over his plantation, he does not signify that he intends
to transport you by means of physical strength, but that he will escort you. If he "carries
you to the run" you will find that the "run" is what Northerners call a creek; if to the "branch,"
or "dreen," that is what we call a brook.

This use of the word "carry," far from being a corruption, is pure old English, and is used
in the Bible, and by Smollett, though it is amusing to note that the "Georgia Gazetteer" for
1837, mentions as a lamentable provincialism such an application of the word as "to carry (instead
of lead) a horse to water." If the "Gazetteer" were indeed correct in this, then the Book of
Genesis contains an American provincialism.

The customary use of the word in the North, as "to carry a cane, or a bag," is equally but
no more correct than the southern usage. I am informed by Mr. W.T. Hall, Editor of the Dothan
(Alabama) "Eagle," that the word used in his part of the country, as signifying "to bear on
the back, or shoulder," is "tote." "Tote" is a word not altogether unknown in the North, and
it has recently found its way into some dictionaries, though the old "Georgia Gazetteer" disapproved
of it. Even this word has some excuse for being, in that it is a deformed member of a good
family, having come from the Latin, tollit, been transformed into the early English "tolt,"
and thus into what I believe to be a purely American word.

Other expressions which struck me as being characteristic of the South are "stop by," as for
instance, "I will stop by for you," meaning, "I will call for you in passing"; "don't guess,"
as "I don't guess I'll come"; and "Yes indeedy!" which seems to be a kind of emphatic "Yes indeed."

"As I look back over the old South," said one white-haired Virginian, "there were two things
it was above. One was accounts and the other was grammar. Tradesmen in prosperous neighborhoods
were always in distress because of the long credits, though gambling debts were, of course,
always punctiliously paid. As to the English spoken in old Virginia--and indeed in the whole
South--there is absolutely no doubt that its softness and its peculiarities in pronunciation
are due to the influence of the negro voice and speech on the white race. Some of the young
people seem to wish to dispute this, but we older ones used to take the view--half humorously,
of course--that if a Southerner spoke perfect English, it showed he wasn't a gentleman; "that
he hadn't been raised with niggers around him.""

"Oh, you shouldn't tell him that!" broke in a lady who was present.

"Why not?" demanded the old gentleman.

"He'll print it!" she said.

"Well," he answered, "ain't it true? What's the harm in it?"

"There!" she exclaimed. "You said 'ain't.' He'll print that Virginians say 'ain't'!"

"Well," he answered, "I reckon we do, don't we?"

She laughed and gave up. "I remember," she told me, "the very spot on the turnpike going out
to Ripon, where I made up my mind to break myself of saying 'ain't.' But I want to tell you
that we are talking much better English than we used to. Even the negroes are. You don't hear
many white people saying 'gwine' for 'going' any more, for instance, and the young people don't
say 'set' for 'sit' and 'git' for 'get,' as their fathers did."

