"The dress of these ladies, extremely different from what we have been accustomed to see, consists
of a plaited petticoat, tied considerably below the waist; stockings striped red, blue and
white; and shoes so short that the toes are bent under the ball of the foot so as to make it
appear nearly round. Their hair is without powder and is divided into small braids behind,
hanging over the shoulders. Their bodice is generally of gold or silver stuff, over which there
are two short cloaks, that underneath of muslin and the other of wool of different colours,
blue, yellow and pink. The upper one is drawn over the head when they are in the streets and
the weather is cold; but within doors it is usual to place it on their knees; and there is
a game played with the muslin cloak by continually shifting it about, in which the ladies of
Concepcion display considerable grace. They are for the most part handsome, and of so polite
and pleasing manners that there is certainly no maritime town in Europe where strangers are
received with so much attention and kindness."

At this city Laperouse met the adventurous Irishman, Ambrose O'Higgins, who by reason of his
conspicuous military abilities became commander of the Spanish forces in Chili, and afterwards
Viceroy of Peru. His name originally was simply Higgins, but he prefixed the "O" when he blossomed
into a Spanish Don, "as being more aristocratic." He was the father of the still more famous
Bernardo O'Higgins, "the Washington of Chili," who led the revolt against Spanish rule and
became first president of the Chilian Republic in 1818. Laperouse at once conceived an attachment
for O'Higgins, "a man of extraordinary activity," and one "adored in the country."

In April, 1786, the expedition was at Easter Island, where the inhabitants appeared to be a
set of cunning and hypocritical thieves, who "robbed us of everything which it was possible
for them to carry off." Steering north, the Sandwich Islands were reached early in May. Here
Laperouse liked the people, "though my prejudices were strong against them on account of the
death of Captain Cook." A passage in the commander's narrative gives his opinion on the annexation
of the countries of native races by Europeans, and shows that, in common with very many of
his countrymen, he was much influenced by the ideas of Rousseau, then an intellectual force
in France--

"Though the French were the first who, in modern times, had landed on the island of Mowee,
I did not think it my duty to take possession in the name of the King. The customs of Europeans
on such occasions are completely ridiculous. Philosophers must lament to see that men, for
no better reason than because they are in possession of firearms and bayonets, should have
no regard for the rights of sixty thousand of their fellow creatures, and should consider as
an object of conquest a land fertilised by the painful exertions of its inhabitants, and for
many ages the tomb of their ancestors. These islands have fortunately been discovered at a
period when religion no longer serves as a pretext for violence and rapine. Modern navigators
have no other object in describing the manners of remote nations than that of completing the
history of man; and the knowledge they endeavour to diffuse has for its sole aim to render
the people they visit more happy, and to augment their means of subsistence."

If Laperouse could see the map of the Pacific to-day he would find its groups of islands all
enclosed within coloured rings, indicating possession by the great Powers of the world. He
would be puzzled and pained by the change. But the history of the political movements leading
to the parcelling out of seas and lands among strong States would interest him, and he would
realise that the day of feeble isolation has gone. Nothing would make him marvel more than
the floating of the Stars and Stripes over Hawaii, for he knew that flag during the American
War of Independence. It was adopted as the flag of the United States in 1777, and during the
campaign the golden lilies of the standard of France fluttered from many masts in co-operation
with it. Truly a century and a quarter has brought about a wonderful change, not only in the
face of the globe and in the management of its affairs, but still more radically in the ideas
of men and in the motives that sway their activities!

The geographical work done by Laperouse in this part of the Pacific was of much importance.
It removed from the chart five or six islands which had no existence, having been marked down
erroneously by previous navigators. From this region the expedition sailed to Alaska, on the
north-west coast of North America. Cook had explored here "with that courage and perseverance
of which all Europe knows him to have been capable," wrote Laperouse, never failing to use
an opportunity of expressing admiration for his illustrious predecessor. But there was still
useful work to do, and the French occupied their time very profitably with it from June to
August. Then their ships sailed down the western coast of America to California, struck east
across the Pacific to the Ladrones, and made for Macao in China--then as now a Portugese possession--reaching
that port in January, 1787.

The Philippines were next visited, and Laperouse formed pleasant impressions of Manilla. It
is clear from his way of alluding to the customs of the Spanish inhabitants that the French
captain was not a tobacco smoker. It was surprising to him that "their passion for smoking
this narcotic is so immoderate that there is not an instant of the day in which either a man
or woman is without a cigar;" and it is equally surprising to us that the French editor of
the history of the voyage found it necessary to explain in a footnote that a cigar is "a small
roll of tobacco which is smoked without the assistance of a pipe." But cigars were then little
known in Europe, except among sailors and travellers who had visited the Spanish colonies;
and the very spelling of the word was not fixed. In English voyages it appears as "seegar,"
"segar," and "sagar."

Formosa was visited in April, northern Japan in May, and the investigation of the north-eastern
coasts of Asia occupied until October.

A passage in a letter from Laperouse to Fleurieu is worth quoting for two reasons. It throws
some light on the difficulties of navigation in unknown seas, and upon the commander's severe
application to duty; and it also serves to remind us that Japan, now so potent a factor in
the politics of the East and of the whole Pacific, had not then emerged from the barbarian
exclusiveness towards foreigners, which she had maintained since Europe commenced to exploit
Asia. In the middle of the seventeenth century she had expelled the Spaniards and the Portugese
with much bloodshed, and had closed her ports to all traders except the Chinese and the Dutch,
who were confined to a prescribed area at Nagasaki. Intercourse with all other foreign peoples
was strictly forbidden. Even as late as 1842 it was commanded that if any foreign vessel were
driven by distress or tempestuous weather into a Japanese port, she might only remain so long
as was necessary to meet her wants, and must then depart. Laperouse knew of this jealous Japanese
antipathy to foreign visitors, and, as he explains in the letter, meant to keep away from the
country because of it. He wrote:--

"The part of our voyage between Manilla and Kamchatka will afford you, I hope, complete satisfaction.
It was the newest, the most interesting, and certainly, from the everlasting fogs which enveloped
the land in the latitudes we traversed, the most difficult. These fogs are such that it has
taken one hundred and fifty days to explore a part of the coast which Captain King, in the
third volume of Cook's last voyage, supposes might be examined in the course of two months.
During this period I rested only ten days, three in the Bay of Ternai, two in the Bay de Langle,
and five in the Bay de Castries. Thus I wasted no time; I even forebore to circumnavigate the
island of Chicha (Yezo) by traversing the Strait of Sangaar (Tsugaru). I should have wished
to anchor, if possible, at the northern point of Japan, and would perhaps have ventured to
send a boat ashore, though such a proceeding would have required the most serious deliberation,
as the boat would probably have been stopped. Where a merchant ship is concerned an event of
this kind might be considered as of little importance, but the seizure of a boat belonging
to a ship of war could scarcely be otherwise regarded than as a national insult; and the taking
and burning of a few sampans would be a very sorry compensation as against the people who would
not exchange a single European of whom they were desirous of making an example, for one hundred
Japanese. I was, however, too far from the coast to include such an intention, and it is impossible
for me to judge at present what I should have done had the contrary been the case.

"It would be difficult for me to find words to express to you the fatigue attending this part
of my voyage, during which I did not once undress myself, nor did a single night pass without
my being obliged to spend several hours upon deck. Imagine to yourself six days of fog with
only two or three hours of clear weather, in seas extremely confined, absolutely unknown, and
where fancy, in consequence of the information we had received, pictured to us shoals and currents
that did not always exist. From the place where we made the land on the eastern coast of Tartary,
to the strait which we discovered between Tchoka (Saghalien) and Chicha, we did not fail to
take the bearing of every point, and you may rest assured that neither creek, port, nor river
escaped our attention, and that many charts, even of the coasts of Europe, are less exact than
those which we shall bring with us on our return."

"The strait which we discovered" is still called Laperouse Strait on most modern maps, though
the Japanese usually call it Soya Strait. It runs between Yezo, the large northerly island
of Japan, and Saghalien. Current maps also show the name Boussole Strait, after Laperouse's
ship, between Urup and Simusir, two of the Kurile chain of small islands curving from Yezo
to the thumblike extremity of Kamchatka.

At Petropavlovsk in Kamchatka the drawings of the artists and the journals of the commander
up to date were packed up, and sent to France overland across Asiatic Russia, in charge of
a young member of the staff, J. B. B. de Lesseps. He was the only one of the expedition who
ever returned to Europe. By not coming to Australia he saved his life. He published a book
about his journey, a remarkable feat of land travel in those days. He was the uncle of a man
whose remarkable engineering work has made Australia's relations with Europe much easier and
more speedy than they were in earlier years: that Ferdinand de Lesseps who (1859-69) planned
and carried out the construction of the Suez Canal. The ships, after replenishing, sailed for
the south Pacific, where we shall follow the proceedings of Laperouse in rather closer detail
than has been considered necessary in regard to the American and Asiatic phases of the voyage.

Chapter VI.

LAPEROUSE IN THE PACIFIC.

On the 6th December, 1787, the expedition made the eastern end of the Navigator Islands, that
is, the Samoan Group. As the ships approached, a party of natives were observed squatting under
cocoanut trees. Presently sixteen canoes put off from the land, and their occupants, after
paddling round the vessels distrustfully, ventured to approach and proffer cocoanuts in exchange
for strings of beads and strips of red cloth. The natives got the better of the bargain, for,
when they had received their price, they hurried off without delivering their own goods. Further
on, an old chief delivered an harangue from the shore, holding a branch of Kava in his hand.
"We knew from what we had read of several voyages that it was a token of peace; and throwing
him some pieces of cloth we answered by the word 'TAYO,' which signified 'friend' in the dialect
of the South Sea Islands; but we were not sufficiently experienced to understand and pronounce
distinctly the words of the vocabularies we had extracted from Cook."

Nearly all the early navigators made a feature of compiling vocabularies of native words, and
Cook devoted particular care to this task. Dr. Walter Roth, formerly protector of Queensland
aboriginals a trained observer, has borne testimony as recently as last year (in THE TIMES,
December 29, 1911) that a list of words collected from Endeavour Strait blacks, and "given
by Captain Cook, are all more or less recognisable at the present day." But Cook's spellings
were intended to be pronounced in the English mode. Laperouse and his companions by giving
the vowels French values would hardly be likely to make the English navigator's vocabularies
intelligible.

The native canoes amused the French captain. They "could be of use only to people who are expert
swimmers, for they are constantly turned over. This is an accident, however, at which they
feel less surprise and anxiety than we should at a hat's blowing off. They lift the canoe on
their shoulders, and after they have emptied it of the water, get into it again, well assured
that they will have the same operation to perform within half an hour, for it is as difficult
to preserve a balance in these ticklish things as to dance upon a rope."

At Mauna Island (now called Tutuila) some successful bargaining was done with glass beads in
exchange for pork and fruits. It surprised Laperouse that the natives chose these paltry ornaments
rather than hatchets and tools. "They preferred a few beads which could be of no utility, to
anything we could offer them in iron or cloth."

Two days later a tragedy occurred at this island, when Captain de Langle, the commander of
the ASTROLABE, and eleven of the crew were murdered. He made an excursion inland to look for
fresh water, and found a clear, cool spring in the vicinity of a village. The ships were not
urgently in need of water, but de Langle "had embraced the system of Cook, and thought fresh
water a hundred times preferable to what had been some time in the hold. As some of his crew
had slight symptoms of scurvy, he thought, with justice, that we owed them every means of alleviation
in our power. Besides, no island could be compared with this for abundance of provisions. The
two ships had already procured upwards of 500 hogs, with a large quantity of fowls, pigeons
and fruits; and all these had cost us only a few beads."

Laperouse himself doubted the prudence of sending a party inland, as he had observed signs
of a turbulent spirit among the islanders. But de Langle insisted on the desirableness of obtaining
fresh water where it was abundant, and "replied to me that my refusal would render me responsible
for the progress of the scurvy, which began to appear with some violence." He undertook to
go at the head of the party, and, relying on his judgment, the commander consented.

Two boats left the ship at about noon, and landed their casks undisturbed. But when the party
returned they found a crowd of over a thousand natives assembled, and a dangerous disposition
soon revealed itself amongst them. It is possible that the Frenchmen had, unconsciously, offended
against some of their superstitious rites. Certainly they had not knowingly been provoked.
They had peacefully bartered their fruits and nuts for beads, and had been treated in a friendly
fashion throughout. But the currents of passion that sweep through the minds of savage peoples
baffle analysis. Something had disturbed them; what it was can hardly be surmised. One of the
officers believed that the gift of some beads to a few, excited the envy of the others. It
may be so; mere envy plays such a large part in the affairs even of civilised peoples, that
we need not wonder to find it arousing the anger of savages. Laperouse tells what occurred
in these terms:--

"Several canoes, after having sold their ladings of provisions on board our ships, had returned
ashore, and all landed in this bay, so that it was gradually filled. Instead of two hundred
persons, including women and children, whom M. de Langle found when he arrived at half past
one, there were ten or twelve hundred by three o'clock. He succeeded in embarking his water;
but the bay was by this time nearly dry, and he could not hope to get his boats afloat before
four o'clock, when the tide would have risen. He stepped into them, however, with his detachment,
and posted himself in the bow, with his musket and his marines, forbidding them to fire unless
he gave orders.

"This, he began to realise, he would soon be forced to do. Stones flew about, and the natives,
only up to the knees in water, surrounded the boats within less than three yards. The marines
who were in the boats, attempted in vain to keep them off. If the fear of commencing hostilities
and being accused of barbarity had not checked M. de Langle, he would unquestionably have ordered
a general discharge of his swivels and musketry, which no doubt would have dispersed the mob,
but he flattered himself that he could check them without shedding blood, and he fell a victim
to his humanity.

"Presently a shower of stones thrown from a short distance with as much force as if they had
come from a sling, struck almost every man in the boat. M. de Langle had only time to discharge
the two barrels of his piece before he was knocked down; and unfortunately he fell over the
larboard bow of the boat, where upwards of two hundred natives instantly massacred him with
clubs and stones. When he was dead, they made him fast by the arm to one of the tholes of the
long boat, no doubt to secure his spoil. The BOUSSOLE'S long-boat, commanded by M. Boutin,
was aground within four yards of the ASTROLABE'S, and parallel with her, so as to leave a little
channel between them, which was unoccupied by the natives. Through this all the wounded men,
who were so fortunate as not to fall on the other side of the boats, escaped by swimming to
the barges, which, happily remaining afloat, were enabled to save forty-nine men out of the
sixty-one."

Amongst the wounded was Pere Receveur, priest, naturalist and shoemaker, who later on died
of his injuries at Botany Bay, and whose tomb there is as familiar as the Laperouse monument.

The anger of the Frenchmen at the treachery of the islanders was not less than their grief
at the loss of their companions. Laperouse, on the first impulse, was inclined to send a strongly-armed
party ashore to avenge the massacre. But two of the officers who had escaped pointed out that
in the cove where the incident occurred the trees came down almost to the sea, affording shelter
to the natives, who would be able to shower stones upon the party, whilst themselves remaining
beyond reach of musket balls.

"It was not without difficulty," he wrote, "that I could tear myself away from this fatal place,
and leave behind the bodies of our murdered companions. I had lost an old friend; a man of
great understanding, judgment, and knowledge; and one of the best officers in the French navy.
His humanity had occasioned his death. Had he but allowed himself to fire on the first natives
who entered into the water to surround the boats, he would have prevented his own death as
well as those of eleven other victims of savage ferocity. Twenty persons more were severely
wounded; and this event deprived us for the time of thirty men, and the only two boats we had
large enough to carry a sufficient number of men, armed, to attempt a descent. These considerations
determined my subsequent conduct. The slightest loss would have compelled me to burn one of
my ships in order to man the other. If my anger had required only the death of a few natives,
I had had an opportunity after the massacre of sinking and destroying a hundred canoes containing
upwards of five hundred persons, but I was afraid of being mistaken in my victims, and the
voice of my conscience saved their lives."

It was then that Laperouse resolved to sail to Botany Bay, of which he had read a description
in Cook's Voyages. His long-boats had been destroyed by the natives, but he had on board the
frames of two new ones, and a safe anchorage was required where they could be put together.
His crews were exasperated; and lest there should be a collision between them and other natives
he resolved that, while reconnoitring other groups of islands to determine their correct latitude,
he would not permit his sailors to land till he reached Botany Bay. There he knew that he could
obtain wood and water.

On December 14 Oyolava (now called Upolu) was reached. Here again the ships were surrounded
by canoes, and the angry French sailors would have fired upon them except for the positive
orders of their commander. Throughout this unfortunate affair the strict sense of justice,
which forbade taking general vengeance for the misdeeds of particular people, stands out strongly
in the conduct of Laperouse. He acknowledged in letters written from Botany Bay, that in future
relations with uncivilised folk he would adopt more repressive measures, as experience taught
him that lack of firm handling was by them regarded as weakness. But his tone in all his writings
is humane and kindly.

The speculations of Laperouse concerning the origin of these peoples, are interesting, and
deserve consideration by those who speak and write upon the South Seas. He was convinced that
they are all derived from an ancient common stock, and that the race of woolly-haired men to
be found in the interior of Formosa were the far-off parents of the natives of the Philippines,
Papua, New Britain, the New Hebrides, the Friendly Islands, the Carolines, Ladrones, and Sandwich
Groups. He believed that in those islands the interior of which did not afford complete shelter
the original inhabitants were conquered by Malays, after which aboriginals and invaders mingled
together, producing modifications of the original types. But in Papua, the Solomons and the
New Hebrides, the Malays made little impression. He accounted for differences in appearance
amongst the people of the islands he visited by the different degrees of Malay intermixture,
and believed that the very black people found on some islands, "whose complexion still remains
a few shades deeper than that of certain families in the same islands" were to be accounted
for by certain families making it "a point of honour not to contaminate their blood." The theory
is at all events striking. We have a "White Australia policy" on the mainland to-day; this
speculation assumes a kind of "Black Australasia policy" on the part of certain families of
islanders from time immemorial.

The Friendly Islands were reached in December, but the commander had few and unimportant relations
with them. On the 13th January, 1788, the ships made for Norfolk Island, and came to anchor
opposite the place where Cook was believed to have landed. The sea was running high at the
time, breaking violently on the rocky shores of the north east. The naturalists desired to
land to collect specimens, but the heavy breakers prevented them. The commander permitted them
to coast along the shore in boats for about half a league but then recalled them.

"Had it been possible to land, there was no way of getting into the interior part of the island
but by ascending for thirty or forty yards the rapid stream of some torrents, which had formed
gullies. Beyond these natural barriers the island was covered with pines and carpeted with
the most beautiful verdure. It is probable that we should then have met with some culinary
vegetables, and this hope increased our desire of visiting a land where Captain Cook had landed
with the greatest facility. He, it is true, was here in fine weather, that had continued for
several days; whilst we had been sailing in such heavy seas that for eight day, our ports had
been shut and our dead-lights in. From the ship I watched the motions of the boats with my
glass; and seeing, as night approached, that they had found no convenient place for landing,
I made the signal to recall them, and soon after gave orders for getting under way. Perhaps
I should have lost much time had I waited for a more favourable opportunity: and the exploring
of this island was not worth such a sacrifice."

At eight in the evening the ships got under way, and at day-break on the following morning
sail was crowded for Botany Bay.

Chapter VII.

AT BOTANY BAY.

When, in 1787, the British Government entrusted Captain Arthur Phillip with a commission to
establish a colony at Botany Bay, New South Wales, they gave him explicit directions as to
where he should locate the settlement. "According to the best information which we have obtained,"
his instructions read, "Botany Bay appears to be the most eligible situation upon the said
coast for the first establishment, possessing a commodious harbour and other advantages which
no part of the said coast hitherto discovered affords." But Phillip was a trustworthy man who,
in so serious a matter as the choice of a site for a town, did not follow blindly the commands
of respectable elderly gentlemen thousands of miles away. It was his business to found a settlement
successfully. To do that he must select the best site.

After examining Botany Bay, he decided to take a trip up the coast and see if a better situation
could not be found. He fixed upon a cove "which I honoured with the name of Sydney." and decided
that that was there he would "plant." Every writer of mediaeval history who has had occasion
to refer to the choice by Constantine the Great of Byzantium, afterwards Constantinople, as
his capital, has extolled his judgment and prescience. Constantine was an Emperor, and could
do as he would. Arthur Phillip was an official acting under orders. We can never sufficiently
admire the wisdom he displayed when, exercising his own discretion, he decided upon Port Jackson.
True, he had a great opportunity, but his signal merit is that he grasped it when it was presented,
that he gave more regard to the success of his task than to the letter of his instructions.

While he was making the search, the eleven vessels composing the First Fleet lay in Botany
Bay. He returned on the evening of the 23rd, and immediately gave orders that the whole company
should as soon as possible sail for Port Jackson, declaring it to be, in King's quaint words,
"a very proper place to form an establisht. in."

To the great astonishment of the Fleet, on the 24th, two strange ships made their appearance
to the south of Solander Point, a projection from the peninsula on which now stands the obelisk
in memory of Cook's landing. What could they be? Some guessed that they were English vessels
with additional stores. Some supposed that they were Dutch, "coming after us to oppose our
landing." Nobody expected to see any ships in these untraversed waters, and we can easily picture
the amazement of officers, crews, and convicts when the white sails appeared. The more timid
speculated on the possibility of attack, and there were "temporary apprehensions, accompanied
by a multiplicity of conjectures, many of them sufficiently ridiculous."

Phillip, however, remembered hearing that the French had an expedition of discovery either
in progress or contemplation. He was the first to form a right opinion about them, but, wishing
to be certain, sent the SUPPLY out of the bay to get a nearer view and hoist the British colours.
Lieutenant Ball, in command of that brig, after reconnoitring, reported that the ships were
certainly not English. They were either French, Spanish or Portuguese. He could distinctly
see the white field of the flag they flew, "but they were at too great a distance to discover
if there was anything else on it." The flag, of course, showed the golden lilies of France
on a white ground. One of the ships, King records, "wore a CHEF D'ESCADRE'S pennant," that
is, a commodore's.

This information satisfied Phillip, who was anxious to lose no time in getting his people ashore
at Sydney Cove. He, therefore, determined to sail in the SUPPLY on the 25th, to make preliminary
arrangements, leaving Captain Hunter of the SIRIUS to convoy the Fleet round as soon as possible.
The wind, just then, was blowing too strong for them to work out of the Bay.

Meanwhile, Laperouse, with the BOUSSOLE and the ASTROLABE, was meeting with heavy weather in
his attempt to double Point Solander. The wind blew hard from that quarter, and his ships were
too heavy sailers to force their passage against wind and current combined. The whole of the
24th was spent in full sight of Botany Bay, which they could not enter. But their hearts were
cheered by the spectacle of the pennants and ensigns on the eleven British vessels, plainly
seen at intervals within, and the prospect of meeting Europeans again made them impatient to
fetch their anchorage.

The SIRIUS was just about to sail when the French vessels entered the Bay at nine in the morning
of January 26, but Captain Hunter courteously sent over a lieutenant and midshipman, with his
compliments and offers of such assistance as it was in his power to give. "I despatched an
officer," records Laperouse, "to return my thanks to Captain Hunter, who by this time had his
anchor a-peak and his topsails hoisted, telling him that my wants were confined to wood and
water, of which we could not fail in this Bay; and I was sensible that vessels intended to
settle a colony at such a distance from Europe could not be of any assistance to navigators."
The English lieutenant, according to Laperouse, "appeared to make a great mystery of Commodore
Phillip's plan, and we did not take the liberty of putting any questions to him on the subject."
It was not the business of a junior officer to give unauthorised information, but perhaps his
manner made a greater mystery of the Governor's plans than the circumstances required.

It was at Kamchatka that the French had learnt that the British were establishing a settlement
in New South Wales; but Laperouse, when he arrived at Botany Bay, had no definite idea as to
the progress they had made. According to Lieutenant-Colonel Paterson, he expected to find a
town built and a market established. Instead of that he found the first colonists abandoning
the site where it was originally intended that they should settle, and preparing to fix their
abode at another spot. But after he had seen something of Botany Bay he expressed himself as
"convinced of the propriety and absolute necessity of the measure."

The later relations between the English and French were of the most pleasant kind. It does
not appear from the writings of those who have left records that Phillip and Laperouse ever
met, or that the latter ever saw the beginnings of Sydney. His ships certainly never entered
Port Jackson. But we learn from Captain Tench that "during their stay in the port"

Not only in what he wrote with an eye to publication, but in his private correspondence, Laperouse
expressed his gratification at the friendly relations established. He spoke of "frequent intercourse"
with the English, and said that "to the most polite attentions they have added every offer
of service in their power; and it was not without regret that we saw them depart, almost immediately
upon our arrival, for Port Jackson, fifteen miles to the northward of this place. Commodore
Phillip had good reason to prefer that port, and he has left us sole masters of this bay, where
our long-boats are already on the stocks."

The fullest account is given in the journal of Lieutenant King, afterwards (1800-6) Governor
of New South Wales. On February 1 Phillip sent him in a cutter, in company with Lieutenant
Dawes of the Marines, to visit Laperouse, "and to offer him whatever he might have occasion
for." King relates that they were "received with the greatest politeness and attention by Monsieur
de Laperouse and his officers." He accepted an invitation to remain during the day with the
French, to dine with the Commodore, and to return to Port Jackson next morning. The complete
history of the voyage was narrated to him, including of course the tragic story of the massacre
of de Langle and his companions. This defence was needed to protect the frames of the two new
longboats, which were being put together, from the natives; and also, it would appear, from
a few escaped convicts, "whom he had dismissed with threats, giving them a day's provision
to carry them back to ye settlement." Laperouse himself, in his history--in the very last words
of it, in fact--complains that "we had but too frequent opportunities of hearing news of the
English settlement, the deserters from which gave us a great deal of trouble and embarrassment."

We learn from King a little about the Pere Receveur--a very little, truly, but sufficient to
make us wish to know more. From the circumstance that his quarters were on the ASTROLABE, and
that, therefore, he was not brought very much under the notice of Laperouse, we read scarcely
anything about him in the commander's book. Once during the voyage some acids used by him for
scientific purposes ignited, and set fire to the ship, but the danger was quickly suppressed.
This incident, and that of the wounding of Receveur at Manua, are nearly all we are told about
him from the commander. But he struck King as being "a man of letters and genius." He was a
collector of natural curiosities, having under his care "a great number of philosophical instruments."
King's few lines, giving the impression derived from a necessarily brief conversation, seem
to bring the Abbe before us in a flash. "A man of letters and genius": how gladly we would
know more of one of whom those words could be written! Receveur died shortly before Laperouse
sailed away, and was buried at the foot of a tree, to which were nailed a couple of boards
bearing an inscription. Governor Phillip, when the boards fell down, had the inscription engraved
on a copper plate. The tomb, which is now so prominent an object at Botany Bay, was erected
by the Baron de Bougainville in 1825. The memorials to the celebrated navigator and the simple
scholar stand together.

King, in common with Tench, records the admiring way in which Laperouse spoke of Cook. (In
short, Mr. Cook has done so much that he has left me nothing to do but to admire his works).

There is very little more to tell about those few weeks spent at Botany Bay before the navigator
and his companions "vanished trackless into blue immensity," as Carlyle puts it. A fragment
of conversation is preserved by Tench. A musket was fired one day, and the natives marvelled
less at the noise than at the fact that the bullet made a hole in a piece of bark at which
it was aimed. To calm them, "an officer whistled the air of 'Malbrook,' which they appeared
highly charmed with, and greeted him with equal pleasure and readiness. I may remark here,"
adds the Captain of Marines, "what I was afterwards told by Monsieur de Perousse" It is gratifying
to be able to record Captain Tench's high opinion of the efficacy of the tune, which is popularly
known nowadays as "We won't go home till morning." One has often heard of telling things "to
the Marines." This gallant officer, doubtless, used to whistle them, to a "little plaintive air."

It was the practice of Laperouse to sow seeds at places visited by his ships, with the object
of experimenting with useful European plants that might be cultivated in other parts of the
world. His own letters and journal do not show that he did so at Botany Bay; but we have other
evidence that he did, and that the signs of cultivation had not vanished at least ten years
later. When George Bass was returning to Sydney in February, 1798, at the end of that wonderful
cruise in a whaleboat which had led to the discovery of Westernport, he was becalmed off Botany
Bay. He was disposed to enter and remain there for the night, but his journal records that
his people--the six picked British sailors who were the companions of his enterprise--"seemed
inclined to push for home rather than go up to the Frenchman's Garden." Therefore, the wind
failing, they took to the oars and rowed to Port Jackson, reaching home at ten o'clock at night.
That is a very interesting allusion. The Frenchman's Garden must have been somewhere within
the enclosed area where the Cable Station now stands, and it would be well if so pleasant a
name, and one so full of historical suggestion, were still applied to that reserve.

It may be well to quote in full the passage in which Laperouse relates his experience of Botany
Bay. He was not able to write his journal up to the date of his departure before despatching
it to Europe, but the final paragraphs in it sufficiently describe what occurred, and what
he thought. Very loose and foolish statements have occasionally been published as to his object
in visiting the port. In one of the geographical journals a few years ago the author saw it
stated that there was "a race for a Continent" between the English and the French, in which
the former won by less than a week! Nonsense of that sort, even though it appears in sober
publications, issued with a scientific purpose, can emanate only from those who have no real
acquaintance with the subject. There was no race, no struggle for priority, no thought of territorial
acquisition on the part of the French. The reader of this little book knows by this time that
the visit to Botany Bay was not originally contemplated. It was not in the programme.

What would have happened if Laperouse had safely returned home, and if the French Revolution
had not destroyed Louis XVI and blown his exploration and colonisation schemes into thin air,
is quite another question; but "ifs" are not history. You can entirely reconstruct the history
of the human race by using enough "ifs," but with that sort of thing, which an ironist has
termed "Iftory," and is often more amusing than enlightening, more speculative than sound,
we have at present nothing to do. Here is the version of the visit given by Laperouse himself:--

