At Gettysburg Lee made his final effort to destroy the army which he had frequently defeated
but never eliminated. Victory meant the fall of Washington, the coming of despair to the North,
an end of the Civil War, which would bring independence and the prize for which they had contended
to the Confederates. And Lee failed at Gettysburg, not as Napoleon failed at Waterloo or as
MacMahon failed at Sedan, but he failed, and his failure was the beginning of the end. The
victory of Gettysburg put new heart, new assurance into the North; it broke the long illusion
of an invincible Confederacy; it gave to Europe, to London, and to Paris, even more promptly
than to Washington, the unmistakable message that the North was bound to win the Civil War.

I mean in a moment to discuss the military aspects of this conflict about the Lorraine fortress,
but before the military it is essential to grasp the moral consequences of Verdun to France,
to the Allies, to Germany. Not since the Marne, not even then--because it was only after a
long delay that France really knew what had happened in this struggle--has anything occurred
that has so profoundly, so indescribably, heartened the French people as has the victory at
Verdun. It is not too much to say that the victory has been the most immediately inspiring
thing in French national life since the disaster at Sedan and that it has roused national confidence,
hope, faith, as nothing else has since the present conflict began.

In this sense rather than in the military sense Verdun was a decisive battle and its consequences
of far-reaching character. France as a whole, from the moment when the attack began, understood
the issue; the battle was fought in the open and the whole nation watched the communiqués day
by day. It was accepted as a terrible if not a final test, and no Frenchman fails to recognize
in all that he says the strength, the power, the military skill of Germany.

And when the advance was checked, when after the first two weeks the battle flickered out as
did the French offensive in Champagne and the former German drive about Ypres a year ago, France,
which had held her breath and waited, hoped, read in the results at Verdun the promise of ultimate
victory, felt that all that Germany had, all that she could produce, had been put to the test
and had failed to accomplish the result for which Germany had striven--or any portion thereof.

War is something beyond armies and tactics, beyond strategy and even military genius, and the
real meaning of Verdun is not to be found in lines held or lost, not to be found even in the
ashes of the old town that France and not Germany holds. It is to be found in the spirit of
France, now that the great trial is over and the lines have held.

It was Germany and not France that raised the issue of Verdun. The Germans believed, and all
their published statements show this, that France was weary, disheartened, ready to quit, on
fair terms. They believed that there was needed only a shining victory, a great moral demonstration
of German strength to accomplish the end--to bring victorious peace. In this I think, and all
with whom I talked in France felt, that the Germans were wrong, that France would have endured
defeat and gone on. But conversely, the Germans knew, must have known, that to try and to fail
was to rouse the whole heart of France, to destroy any pessimism, and this is precisely what
the failure has done.

The battle for Verdun was a battle for moral rather than military values, and the moral victory
remains with the French. It was a deliberate and calculated effort to break the spirit of France,
and it roused the spirit of France as perhaps nothing has raised the spirit of this people
since Valmy, where other Frenchmen met and checked another German invasion, brought to a halt
the army of Frederick the Great, which still preserved the prestige of its great captain who
was dead, turned it back along the road that was presently to end at Jena.

Beside the moral value of Verdun the military is just nothing. To appreciate its meaning you
must understand what it has meant to the French, and you must understand it by recalling what
Gettysburg meant to the North, invaded as is France, defeated at half a dozen struggles in
Virginia as France has been defeated in the past months of this war. Gettysburg was and remains
the decisive battle of our Civil War, although the conflict lasted for nearly two years more.
For France Verdun is exactly the same thing. Having accepted the moral likeness, you may find
much that is instructive and suggestive in the military, but this is of relatively minor importance.

Now, on the military side it is necessary to know first of all that when the Germans began
their gigantic attack upon Verdun the French high command decided not to defend the city. Joffre
and those who with him direct the French armies were agreed that the city of Verdun was without
military value comparable with the cost of defending it, and that the wisest and best thing
to do was to draw back the lines to the hills above the city and west of the Meuse. Had their
will prevailed there would have been no real battle at Verdun and the Germans would long ago
have occupied the ashes of the town.

Joffre's view was easily explicable, and it was hardly possible to quarrel with the military
judgment it discloses. To the world Verdun is a great fortress, a second Gibraltar, encircled
by great forts, furnished with huge guns, the gateway to Paris and the key to the French eastern
frontier. And this is just what Verdun was until the coming of the present war, when the German
and Austrian siege guns levelled the forts of Antwerp, of Maubeuge, of Liège. But after that
Verdun ceased to be anything, because all fortresses lost their value with the revelation that
they had failed to keep pace with the gun.

After the Battle of the Marne, when the trench war began, the French took all their guns out
of the forts of Verdun, pushed out before the forts, and Verdun became just a sector in the
long trench line from the sea to Switzerland. It was defended by trenches, not forts. It was
neither of more importance nor less than any other point in the line and it was a place of
trenches, not of forts. The forts were empty and remain empty, monuments to the past of war,
quite as useless as the walls of Rome would be against modern artillery.

The decline of Verdun was even more complete. From the strongest point in French defence it
became the weakest. When the Germans took St. Mihiel in September, 1914, they cut the north
and south railroad that binds Verdun to the Paris-Nancy Railroad. When they retreated from
the Marne they halted at Varennes and Montfaucon, and from these points they command the Paris-Verdun-Metz
Railroad. Apart from a single narrow-gauge railroad of minor value, which wanders among the
hills, climbing at prohibitive grades, Verdun is isolated from the rest of France. Consider
what this means in modern war when the amount of ammunition consumed in a day almost staggers
belief. Consider what it means when there are a quarter of a million men to be fed and munitioned
in this sector.

More than all this, when the lines came down to the trench condition Verdun was a salient,
it was a narrow curve bulging out into the German front. It was precisely the same sort of
military position as Ypres, which the Germans have twice before selected as the point for a
great attack. In the Verdun sector the French are exposed to a converging fire; they are inside
the German semicircle. Moreover, the salient is so narrow that the effect of converging fire
is not to be exaggerated.

When the French attacked the Germans in Champagne last fall they advanced on a wide front from
a line parallel to the German line. As they pierced the first German lines they were exposed
to the converging fire of the Germans, because they were pushing a wedge in. Ultimately they
got one brigade through all the German lines, but it was destroyed beyond by this converging
fire. But as the Germans advanced upon Verdun they were breaking down a salient and possessed
the advantage they had had on the defensive in Champagne.

Finally, one-half the French army of Verdun fought with its back to a deep river, connected
with the other half only by bridges, some of which presently came under German fire, and there
was every possibility that these troops might be cut off and captured if the German advance
were pushed home far enough on the west bank of the Meuse and the German artillery was successful
in interrupting the passage of the river. It was a perilous position and there were some days
when the situation seemed critical.

Accordingly, when the German drive at Verdun was at last disclosed in its real magnitude Joffre
prepared to evacuate the town and the east bank of the river, to straighten his line and abolish
the salient and give over to the Germans the wreck of Verdun. The position behind the river
was next to impregnable; the lines would then be parallel; there would be no salient, and in
the new position the French could concentrate their heavy artillery while the Germans were
moving up the guns that they had fixed to the north of the old front.

But at this point the French politician interfered. He recognized the wisdom of the merely
military view of Joffre, but he saw also the moral value. He recognized that the French and
the German public alike would not see Verdun as a mere point in a trench line and a point almost
impossible to defend and destitute of military value. He saw that the French and German publics
would think of Verdun as it had been thought of before the present war changed all the conditions
of conflict. He recognized that the German people would be roused to new hope and confidence
by the capture of a great fortress, and that the French would be equally depressed by losing
what they believed was a great fortress.

You had therefore in France for some hours, perhaps for several days, something that approximated
a crisis growing out of the division of opinion between the civil and the military authorities,
a division of opinion based upon two wholly different but not impossible equally correct appraisals.
Joffre did not believe it was worth the men or the risk to hold a few square miles of French
territory, since to evacuate would strengthen, not weaken, the line. The French politicians
recognized that to lose Verdun was to suffer a moral defeat which would almost infallibly bring
down the Ministry, might call into existence a new Committee of Public Safety, and would fire
the German heart and depress the French.

In the end the politicians had their way and Castelnau, Joffre's second in command, came over
to their view and set out for Verdun to organize the defence for the position at the eleventh
hour. He had with him Pétain, the man who had commanded the French army in the Battle of Champagne
and henceforth commanded the army that was hurried to the Verdun sector. France now took up
definitely the gage of battle as Germany had laid it down. Verdun now became a battle in the
decisive sense of the word, although still on the moral side. Nothing is more preposterous
than to believe that there ever was any chance of a German advance through Verdun to Paris.
One has only to go to Verdun and see the country and the lines behind the city and miles back
of the present front to realize how foolish such talk is.

