Blaine stole a glance at the girl and something caught at his throat. God, she was beautiful!
There must be some way of getting her out of this mess. Dantor, perhaps, might show the way.
He ought to be sending that message soon--a mental one, Tiedus said. Poor kid, Tiedus; gone
to the happy hunting grounds now, no question of that. And he intended to advise Dantor from
the spirit world. As simple as that, it was. They were game, these Rulans. Fatalists, though,
and resigned to the inevitable; hopeless. But a wonderful people in a rotten world.

Soon he felt his head droop and in a moment he began to doze.

When he awoke it was to the touch of Ulana's soft fingers on his arm. "We are alone?" she asked.

"Lord!" he exclaimed, rising stiffly and rubbing the sleep from his eyes. "How long have I
napped? I shouldn't have."

A swift look around the small clearing disclosed the fact that Tommy was missing. He shouldn't
have let him go. A sudden panic gripped him.

"Tommy! Tommy!" he called out.

                     *      *      *      *      *

There was not even an echo in reply. Only the whispering of the jungle overhead and all around
them. His friend was gone.

"Ulana," he said, his voice trembling, "we are alone. Farley is lost; swallowed up in this
terrible forest."

And then, suddenly, she was in his arms. Those wondrous blue eyes, swimming in tears, looked
into his own. Soft red lips, upturned, met his lips; clung there.

"I am sorry, my Carson," she said softly, when he had released her: "sorry that your good friend
is lost. But perhaps," more brightly--"he has but strayed away. When the mental message comes
you will be reunited. He will hear it as well as you."

Blaine shook his head. In his own heart he knew he would never see Tommy again. He had wandered
too close to the Tritu Anu and had been overpowered by the green-bronze guards. Their ray pistols--he
shuddered at the thought.

"I have you now, my Carson," the girl was saying. "Only you."

In a daze of pain and happiness intermingled, he knew he was holding her close, drawing her
fiercely to him. And then, raising dull eyes to stare over the precious head and into the jungle
that hid his friend, he froze with horror.

A flat serpent head with wide slavering mouth and beady eyes swayed there directly behind her.
Pendant, it was, on a scaly and slimy length of undulating body that coiled high above in the
matted growths of the jungle. As he watched, rooted to the spot, the great head drew back and
poised, vibrating, ready to strike.

                     *      *      *      *      *

In one quick movement he flung the girl aside and whipped out the ray pistol he had taken from
Pegrani. He pressed the release and a whirring sound came from the little weapon. But no crackling
blue flame sprang forth to blast this creature into nothingness. Jumping aside, he was thrown
to the ground by its lashing body as the great snake struck and missed.

But the pistol was useless. Short circuited by moisture, no doubt. He crouched there, calling
huskily to Ulana. She must run for it; force her way into the thick undergrowth where the thing
could not reach her. She lay there, helpless with terror. Then, in a flash, she was on her
feet dashing to his side. God, the huge head was poised there again! Pulsating! The glittering
avid eyes upon them!

Instinctively Blaine raised the pistol just as the head darted downward. The release clicked
home. And, wonder of wonders, the blue flame crackled spitefully. Exploding atoms, dazzling
in the green twilight. Mighty thrashings of the huge coils high up in the tangled foliage.
Crashing and tearing of great stems and rope-like tendrils. But the enormous body was headless;
a dead thing in the throes of its final reflexes. Only the one charge had been spoiled; the
little pistol had served them well.

He drew Ulana into the thickest of the undergrowth for protection against the tremendous lashing
thing that crashed into the small clearing where the giant mushroom grew. Their shelter was
destroyed. He must find another; he must be forever on guard over this girl whose hand clung
so confidently to his own as they wedged their way into the thicket.

"Carson! Ulana!" A familiar voice rose above the whisperings of the jungle. A voice familiar,
yet unreal; supernatural; a calm, commanding one that did not sound but echoed only in the
consciousness.

"Hark!" Ulana gripped his hand more tightly. "Did you hear? It is Dantor. The message Tiedus
promised."

In awed silence they waited. A tiny ball of orange fire flamed suddenly in the depths of the
rushes directly before them. A sign!

"Ah, you are there!" the voice broke in. "I have your mental reactions. You will follow the
orange beacon to the Tritu Anu where I await your coming. Be of good cheer, my children."

                     *      *      *      *      *

What magic was this? The science of the Rulans was beyond the comprehension of the Earth man.
Here was telepathy in its most perfect form. Communications from the spirit plane; the orange
flame--it was all so utterly fantastic that Blaine had to look earnestly at the girl to assure
himself it was not a dream. She smiled confidently.

And the orange flame was moving off into the undergrowth. They must follow its beckoning, flickering
light.

It was a nightmare, that journey back through the jungle to the Tritu Anu. Dantor must be in
a fearful hurry, for the orange flame moved swiftly. If they stopped a moment to rest it danced
there impatiently, then receded into the green shadows until they were forced to follow for
fear of losing it. Ulana's light robe was torn and sodden with moisture. The perfectly rounded
ivory shoulders, bare now, were scratched and bleeding from contact with thorny protuberances
that covered some of the lighter reed-like stems.

But the brave girl was uncomplaining. She clung doggedly to the Earth man's hand when they
were able to walk erect: followed swiftly and unquestioningly when they were compelled to crawl
or wriggle through an almost impenetrable thicket.

Once she cried out in alarm and Blaine turned back to see that the wiry tendrils of a spiny,
globular plant had wound themselves around her slim body and held her fast. As he grasped her
hand to draw her away, others of the tendrils curled about his wrist and he too was imprisoned.
They burned the flesh, those writhing things, and tugged mightily. Ulana screamed with the
pain of the many that held her in their tightening grasp.

                     *      *      *      *      *

It was alive, this thing that grew there, a huge ball with a thousand stinging tentacles. A
carnivorous plant. Even as the realization flashed across his mind he saw that the spiny sphere
was opening. Split vertically, the two halves fell apart to disclose the steaming interior
whose walls were lined with sharp dagger-like projections a foot in length. And the wiry tendrils
were drawing them in!

Almost insane with horror, Blaine released the disintegrating energy of the weapon he still
carried in his free hand. Twice he pressed its release and twice the searing blue flame spurted
from the glass tube that was its muzzle. Only a few charges remained now in the marvelous weapon
but once more it had served then well. The open-mouthed plant monster vanished with the clearing
of the blue vapor and the ensnaring tendrils relaxed, falling from their bodies like so many
loosened cords. Blaine caught the swooning girl in his arms.

Half carrying her, he struggled on after the orange flare. The base of one of the latticed
supporting columns loomed vast in the eery twilight gloom, and he leaned a moment against one
of its vine-wrapped members. The girl was exhausted and hung limp in his circling right arm.
Still the orange beacon danced on. If only Dantor would ease up a bit. Couldn't he give them
a little time?

                     *      *      *      *      *

On and on he staggered, ploughing through the sloppy footing and the dripping clinging greens
that were everywhere in his path. Slimy fronds wrapped themselves around them, impeding his
progress; clinging as if they too were alive. The whispering silence closed in on them, vast
and mysterious. Menacing; awful....

And then he stumbled against a metallic wall. The curved side of the Tritu Anu! His brain cleared
and courage returned with a rush. The tiny orange flame danced merrily, leading him along the
wall toward the door he knew was there.

Breathing easier now, his pace quickened as Dantor's guiding light slithered along the gleaming
wall. Sometimes it was almost hidden from sight by the curvature of the welded plates and he
was forced into a jog trot to keep it in view.

Grimly, tenderly, he clung to the delectable creature whose soft body drooped against him.

The door! The selfsame passage through which they had escaped opened before him. Grateful even
for this doubtful protection, he crossed the threshold and trudged wearily along with his precious
burden. Blindly trusting in the miraculous powers of Dantor, he followed the orange beacon
which now seemed to smile cheerfully as it lighted his way through the winding rock-walled tunnel.

Dazed and spent, he collapsed in the arms of the aged Rulan when he reached the end of the passage.

CHAPTER VIII

Last of the Rulans

Bathed and fed and attired in dry clothing provided by Dantor, the Earth man and Rulan maiden
were much refreshed and heartened when, together, they finally faced the aged scientist in
the laboratory of the secret apartment. He hadn't allowed them to talk as yet.

Blaine glanced at the ragged opening where the stone door had been blown away. "We are safe
from intrusion here?" he asked.

Dantor shrugged expressive shoulders. "The Tritu Anu is empty of life," he said; "a sepulchre.
Those of our people who were not completely disintegrated lie blackened corpses in the chambers
and corridors overhead. The gas grenades, you know. The guards went to Ianito with Farley and
reported you dead: lost in the jungle from which none return."

"Farley!" Blaine shouted. "He is alive?" A wild hope sprang into being, intensified to a certainty
as Dantor nodded.

"Why, yes. I thought you knew. They captured him very soon after the escape, but were unable
to find you and Ulana. Ianito has mechanized him; he is in a hypnotic state of complete subjection
to the Dictator. A quantity of k-metal has been taken to the laboratory at the breech of the
great rocket-tube, and Farley now works there with Ianito's crew, initiating them into the
mysteries of the metal's uses. Things look very bad."

"Wh-a-at!" Blaine lost his elation over the knowledge that his friend was alive. Tommy was
doomed, anyway. They all were doomed. "Why did you bring us back?" he asked, turning away.
Blaine felt it was better to have died in the jungle than to face this certainty of lingering
torture. Ianito had triumphed; the universe was fated for utter annihilation and Ulana would
suffer for weeks, perhaps months, before the final swift dissolution.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Understanding, Dantor smiled gravely. "My boy," he said, "we still live, and while we live
there is hope. That is the reason I brought you back. Tiedus' message came to me as his spirit
left the body and I made haste to come here as soon as the Zara released me and I knew the
coast was clear."

"What hope can there be?" Appalled by the enormity of the disaster that threatened the solar
system, certain of the ultimate fate that would be meted out to Tom Farley, and convinced of
their own helplessness, Blaine was gloomily unenthusiastic.

"That remains to be seen, Carson. I confess it seems impossible of remedy, but the situation
must be faced and studied carefully. Insignificant as we are in the vastness of the cosmos,
we may yet prove to be the ones to circumvent the mad plans of the Llotta and prevent the catastrophe
which is inevitable if they succeed. We must not give up while we still breathe."

The indomitable spirit of the old scientist glistened in his keen eyes, and he stepped to the
controls of the crystal sphere.

"He will not give up, oh Dantor," Ulana exclaimed loyally. "He is with us to the end. Do I
speak truth, my Carson?"

Her arm slipped through his and he thrilled anew at her fragrant nearness. Give up? Never!
Not with Ulana to fight for. Blaine nodded wordless agreement, silenced by the expression of
Dantor's face as the crystal vibrated to a musically throbbing note.

                     *      *      *      *      *

There in the crystal ball was pictured a vast underground workshop somewhat like the one in
the great dome through which they had entered the copper-clad world. In place of the telescope
there was the butt of a gigantic cannon-like tube that towered and was lost in the shadows
of the vaulted chamber. Tom Farley, moving jerkily and staring with glazed unseeing eyes, was
working there with a cube of the glittering k-metal. In the open breech block of the tube was
a heaped-up cone of dry soil, the material they would disintegrate in producing the blast of
electronic forces. Blaine groaned as his friend called for the equivalent of a milligram of
radium. Though his voice was listless and his movements uncertain, Tommy knew what he was doing
and was giving away the secret, powerless to resist the command Ianito had implanted in his
completely subjective mind.

"Ah," Dantor breathed: "progressive annihilation of energy: a thing we never have accomplished.
You excite ordinary material such as this dry soil by means of atoms exploded from this k-metal
which is in turn excited by ordinary radium that can be used over and over as the primary excitant.
Am I correct?"

"You are. There are precise ratios of atomic weights to be considered, of course, but it looks
as if my friend is being extremely accurate in spite of his dazed condition. Man alive! There
is enough material there to provide power for the entire planet Venus for a month!"

"And enough to start Antrid from her orbit," Dantor returned. "Enough to send her on her fatal
journey sunward?"

"Only for the first acceleration. A vast amount of energy is needed, Carson, since the gravitational
attraction of the planet you call Jupiter is enormous. Antrid will be speeded up in its orbit
and the increased centrifugal force will cause it to take up a new and larger orbit where the
forces will equalize. Several charges will be required in order to free her entirely from the
mother body."

                     *      *      *      *      *

"There's time then!" Blaine exclaimed excitedly. "What can we do to put a stop to the thing?
Something to counteract this control by Ianito; to cause Tommy to err in his proportions."

"Yes, that would do it--temporarily at least," Dantor agreed, his brow wrinkled in thought;
"and there are the invisible cloaks. It is a bare chance if you want to take it. I can show
you the way to this underground laboratory, and, in invisibility, you might even be able to
change the ratios yourself. Yes, yes, it is a very good idea." The scientist brightened in
renewed hope.

"Of course I'll chance it. When do I start?"

Dantor grinned in appreciation and Ulana looked up at him starry-eyed. "I'm going with you,"
she stated simply.

"Not on your life! There'll be danger. I won't have it!"

