It was not a moment too soon. The liquefied substances soon after reached the bottom of the
barrier. The stream of lava swelled like a river about to overflow its banks, and threatened
to demolish the sole obstacle which could prevent it from overrunning the whole Far West. But
the dam held firm, and after a moment of terrible suspense the torrent precipitated itself
into Grant Lake from a height of twenty feet.

The colonists, without moving or uttering a word, breathlessly regarded this strife of the
two elements.

What a spectacle was this conflict between water and fire! What pen could describe the marvelous
horror of this scene--what pencil could depict it? The water hissed as it evaporated by contact
with the boiling lava. The vapor whirled in the air to an immeasurable height, as if the valves
of an immense boiler had been suddenly opened. But, however considerable might be the volume
of water contained in the lake, it must eventually be absorbed, because it was not replenished,
while the stream of lava, fed from an inexhaustible source, rolled on without ceasing new waves
of incandescent matter.

The first waves of lava which fell in the lake immediately solidified and accumulated so as
speedily to emerge from it. Upon their surface fell other waves, which in their turn became
stone, but a step nearer the center of the lake. In this manner was formed a pier which threatened
to gradually fill up the lake, which could not overflow, the water displaced by the lava being
evaporated. The hissing of the water rent the air with a deafening sound, and the vapor, blown
by the wind, fell in rain upon the sea. The pier became longer and longer, and the blocks of
lava piled themselves one on another. Where formerly stretched the calm waters of the lake
now appeared an enormous mass of smoking rocks, as if an upheaving of the soil had formed immense
shoals. Imagine the waters of the lake aroused by a hurricane, then suddenly solidified by
an intense frost, and some conception may be formed of the aspect of the lake three hours alter
the eruption of this irresistible torrent of lava.

This time water would be vanquished by fire.

Nevertheless it was a fortunate circumstance for the colonists that the effusion of lava should
have been in the direction of Lake Grant. They had before them some days' respite. The plateau
of Prospect Heights, Granite House, and the dockyard were for the moment preserved. And these
few days it was necessary to employ in planking and carefully calking the vessel, and launching
her. The colonists would then take refuge on board the vessel, content to rig her after she
should be afloat on the waters. With the danger of an explosion which threatened to destroy
the island there could be no security on shore. The walls of Granite House, once so sure a
retreat, might at any moment fall in upon them.

During the six following days, from the 25th to the 30th of January, the colonists accomplished
as much of the construction of their vessel as twenty men could have done. They hardly allowed
themselves a moment's repose, and the glare of the flames which shot from the crater enabled
them to work night and day. The flow of lava continued, but perhaps less abundantly. This was
fortunate, for Lake Grant was almost entirely choked up, and if more lava should accumulate
it would inevitably spread over the plateau of Prospect Heights, and thence upon the beach.

But if the island was thus partially protected on this side, it was not so with the western part.

In fact, the second stream of lava, which had followed the valley of Falls River, a valley
of great extent, the land on both sides of the creek being flat, met with no obstacle. The
burning liquid had then spread through the forest of the Far West. At this period of the year,
when the trees were dried up by a tropical heat, the forest caught fire instantaneously, in
such a manner that the conflagration extended itself both by the trunks of the trees and by
their higher branches, whose interlacement favored its progress. It even appeared that the
current of flame spread more rapidly among the summits of the trees than the current of lava
at their bases.

Thus it happened that the wild animals, jaguars, wild boars, capybaras, koalas, and game of
every kind, mad with terror, had fled to the banks of the Mercy and to the Tadorn Marsh, beyond
the road to Port Balloon. But the colonists were too much occupied with their task to pay any
attention to even the most formidable of these animals. They had abandoned Granite House, and
would not even take shelter at the Chimneys, but encamped under a tent, near the mouth of the
Mercy.

Each day Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett ascended the plateau of Prospect Heights. Sometimes
Herbert accompanied them, but never Pencroft, who could not bear to look upon the prospect
of the island now so utterly devastated.

It was, in truth, a heart-rending spectacle. All the wooded part of the island was now completely
bare. One single clump of green trees raised their heads at the extremity of Serpentine Peninsula.
Here and there were a few grotesque blackened and branchless stumps. The side of the devastated
forest was even more barren than Tadorn Marsh. The eruption of lava had been complete. Where
formerly sprang up that charming verdure, the soil was now nothing but a savage mass of volcanic
tufa. In the valleys of the Falls and Mercy rivers no drop of water now flowed towards the
sea, and should Lake Grant be entirely dried up, the colonists would have no means of quenching
their thirst. But, fortunately the lava had spared the southern corner of the lake, containing
all that remained of the drinking water of the island. Towards the northwest stood out the
rugged and well-defined outlines of the sides of the volcano, like a gigantic claw hovering
over the island. What a sad and fearful sight, and how painful to the colonists, who, from
a fertile domain covered with forests, irrigated by watercourses, and enriched by the produce
of their toils, found themselves, as it were, transported to a desolate rock, upon which, but
for their reserves of provisions, they could not even gather the means of subsistence!

"It is enough to break one's heart!" said Gideon Spilett, one day.

"Yes, Spilett," answered the engineer. "May God grant us the time to complete this vessel,
now our sole refuge!"

"Do not you think, Cyrus, that the violence of the eruption has somewhat lessened? The volcano
still vomits forth lava, but somewhat less abundantly, if I mistake not."

"It matters little," answered Cyrus Harding. "The fire is still burning in the interior of
the mountain, and the sea may break in at any moment. We are in the condition of passengers
whose ship is devoured by a conflagration which they cannot extinguish, and who know that sooner
or later the flames must reach the powder-magazine. To work, Spilett, to work, and let us not
lose an hour!"

During eight days more, that is to say until the 7th of February, the lava continued to flow,
but the eruption was confined within the previous limits. Cyrus Harding feared above all lest
the liquefied matter should overflow the shore, for in that event the dockyard could not escape.
Moreover, about this time the colonists felt in the frame of the island vibrations which alarmed
them to the highest degree.

It was the 20th of February. Yet another month must elapse before the vessel would be ready
for sea. Would the island hold together till then? The intention of Pencroft and Cyrus Harding
was to launch the vessel as soon as the hull should be complete. The deck, the upperworks,
the interior woodwork and the rigging might be finished afterwards, but the essential point
was that the colonists should have an assured refuge away from the island. Perhaps it might
be even better to conduct the vessel to Port Balloon, that is to say, as far as possible from
the center of eruption, for at the mouth of the Mercy, between the islet and the wall of granite,
it would run the risk of being crushed in the event of any convulsion. All the exertions of
the voyagers were therefore concentrated upon the completion of the hull.

Thus the 3rd of March arrived, and they might calculate upon launching the vessel in ten days.

Hope revived in the hearts of the colonists, who had, in this fourth year of their sojourn
on Lincoln island, suffered so many trials. Even Pencroft lost in some measure the somber taciturnity
occasioned by the devastation and ruin of his domain. His hopes, it is true, were concentrated
upon his vessel.

"We shall finish it," he said to the engineer, "we shall finish it, captain, and it is time,
for the season is advancing and the equinox will soon be here. Well, if necessary, we must
put in to Tabor island to spend the winter. But think of Tabor island after Lincoln Island.
Ah, how unfortunate! Who could have believed it possible?"

"Let us get on," was the engineer's invariable reply.

And they worked away without losing a moment.

"Master," asked Neb, a few days later, "do you think all this could have happened if Captain
Nemo had been still alive?"

"Certainly, Neb," answered Cyrus Harding.

"I, for one, don't believe it!" whispered Pencroft to Neb.

"Nor I!" answered Neb seriously.

During the first week of March appearances again became menacing. Thousands of threads like
glass, formed of fluid lava, fell like rain upon the island. The crater was again boiling with
lava which overflowed the back of the volcano. The torrent flowed along the surface of the
hardened tufa, and destroyed the few meager skeletons of trees which had withstood the first
eruption. The stream, flowing this time towards the southwest shore of Lake Grant, stretched
beyond Creek Glycerine, and invaded the plateau of Prospect Heights. This last blow to the
work of the colonists was terrible. The mill, the buildings of the inner court, the stables,
were all destroyed. The affrighted poultry fled in all directions. Top and Jup showed signs
of the greatest alarm, as if their instinct warned them of an impending catastrophe. A large
number of the animals of the island had perished in the first eruption. Those which survived
found no refuge but Tadorn Marsh, save a few to which the plateau of Prospect Heights afforded
asylum. But even this last retreat was now closed to them, and the lava-torrent, flowing over
the edge of the granite wall, began to pour down upon the beach its cataracts of fire. The
sublime horror of this spectacle passed all description. During the night it could only be
compared to a Niagara of molten fluid, with its incandescent vapors above and its boiling masses
below.

The colonists were driven to their last entrenchment, and although the upper seams of the vessel
were not yet calked, they decided to launch her at once.

Pencroft and Ayrton therefore set about the necessary preparations for the launching, which
was to take place the morning of the next day, the 9th of March.

