I cannot help owning, however, that I am pleased to have you join with me in opinion of the
contempt which Mr. Solmes deserves from me. But yet, permit me to say, that he is not quite
so horrible a creature as you make him: as to his person, I mean; for with regard to his mind,
by all I have heard, you have done him but justice: but you have such a talent at an ugly likeness,
and such a vivacity, that they sometimes carry you out of verisimilitude. In short, my dear,
I have known you, in more instances than one, sit down resolved to write all that wit, rather
than strict justice, could suggest upon the given occasion. Perhaps it may be thought, that
I should say the less on this particular subject, because your dislike of him arises from love
to me: But should it not be our aim to judge of ourselves, and of every thing that affects
us, as we may reasonably imagine other people would judge of us and of our actions?

As to the advice you give, to resume my estate, I am determined not to litigate with my father,
let what will be the consequence to myself. I may give you, at another time, a more particular
answer to your reasonings on this subject: but, at present, will only observe, that it is in
my opinion, that Lovelace himself would hardly think me worth addressing, were he to know this
would be my resolution. These men, my dear, with all their flatteries, look forward to the
PERMANENT. Indeed, it is fit they should. For love must be a very foolish thing to look back
upon, when it has brought persons born to affluence into indigence, and laid a generous mind
under obligation and dependence.

You very ingeniously account for the love we bear to one another, from the difference in our
tempers. I own, I should not have thought of that. There may possibly be something in it: but
whether there be or not, whenever I am cool, and give myself time to reflect, I will love you
the better for the correction you give, be as severe as you will upon me. Spare me not, therefore,
my dear friend, whenever you think me in the least faulty. I love your agreeable raillery:
you know I always did: nor, however over-serious you think me, did I ever think you flippant,
as you harshly call it. One of the first conditions of our mutual friendship was, each should
say or write to the other whatever was upon her mind, without any offence to be taken: a condition,
that is indeed indispensable in friendship.

I knew your mother would be for implicit obedience in a child. I am sorry my case is so circumstanced,
that I cannot comply. It would be my duty to do so, if I could. You are indeed very happy,
that you have nothing but your own agreeable, yet whimsical, humours to contend with, in the
choice she invites you to make of Mr. Hickman. How happy I should be, to be treated with so
much lenity!--I should blush to have my mother say, that she begged and prayed me, and all
in vain, to encourage a man so unexceptionable as Mr. Hickman.

Indeed, my beloved Miss Howe, I am ashamed to have your mother say, with ME in her view, 'What
strange effects have prepossession and love upon young creatures of our sex!' This touches
me the more sensibly, because you yourself, my dear, are so ready to persuade me into it.

I should be very blamable to endeavour to hide any the least bias upon my mind, from you: and
I cannot but say--that this man--this Lovelace--is a man that might be liked well enough, if
he bore such a character as Mr. Hickman bears; and even if there were hopes of reclaiming him.
And further still I will acknowledge, that I believe it possible that one might be driven,
by violent measures, step by step, as it were, into something that might be called--I don't
know what to call it--a conditional kind of liking, or so. But as to the word LOVE--justifiable
and charming as it is in some cases, (that is to say, in all the relative, in all the social,
and, what is still beyond both, in all our superior duties, in which it may be properly called
divine;) it has, methinks, in the narrow, circumscribed, selfish, peculiar sense, in which
you apply it to me, (the man too so little to be approved of for his morals, if all that report
says of him be true,) no pretty sound with it. Treat me as freely as you will in all other
respects, I will love you, as I have said, the better for your friendly freedom. But, methinks,
I could be glad that you would not let this imputation pass so glibly from your pen, or your
lips, as attributable to one of your own sex, whether I be the person or not: since the other
must have a double triumph, when a person of your delicacy (armed with such contempts of them
all, as you would have one think) can give up a friend, with an exultation over her weakness,
as a silly, love-sick creature.

I could make some other observations upon the contents of your last two letters; but my mind
is not free enough at present. The occasion for the above stuck with me; and I could not help
taking the earliest notice of them.

Having written to the end of my second sheet, I will close this letter, and in my next, acquaint
you with all that has happened here since my last.

LETTER XXIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SATURDAY, MARCH 11.

I have had such taunting messages, and such repeated avowals of ill offices, brought me from
my brother and sister, if I do no comply with their wills, (delivered, too, with provoking
sauciness by Betty Barnes,) that I have thought it proper, before I entered upon my intended
address to my uncles, in pursuance of the hint given me in my mother's letter, to expostulate
a little with them. But I have done it in such a manner, as will give you (if you please to
take it as you have done some parts of my former letters) great advantage over me. In short,
you will have more cause than ever, to declare me far gone in love, if my reasons for the change
of my style in these letters, with regard to Mr. Lovelace, do not engage your more favourable
opinion.--For I have thought proper to give them their own way: and, since they will have it,
that I have a preferable regard for Mr. Lovelace, I give them cause rather to confirm their
opinion than doubt it.

These are my reasons in brief, for the alteration of my style.

In the first place, they have grounded their principal argument for my compliance with their
will, upon my acknowledgement that my heart is free; and so, supposing I give up no preferable
person, my opposition has the look of downright obstinacy in their eyes; and they argue, that
at worst, my aversion to Solmes is an aversion that may be easily surmounted, and ought to
be surmounted in duty to my father, and for the promotion of family views.

Next, although they build upon this argument in order to silence me, they seem not to believe
me, but treat me as disgracefully, as if I were in love with one of my father's footmen: so
that my conditional willingness to give up Mr. Lovelace has procured me no favour.

In the next place, I cannot but think, that my brother's antipathy to Mr. Lovelace is far from
being well grounded: the man's inordinate passion for the sex is the crime that is always rung
in my ears: and a very great one it is: But, does my brother recriminate upon him thus in love
to me?--No--his whole behaviour shews me, that that is not his principal motive, and that he
thinks me rather in his way than otherwise.

It is then the call of justice, as I may say, to speak a little in favour of a man, who, although
provoked by my brother, did not do him all the mischief he could have done him, and which my
brother had endeavoured to do him. It might not be amiss therefore, I thought, to alarm them
a little with apprehension, that the methods they are taking with me are the very reverse of
those they should take to answer the end they design by them. And after all, what is the compliment
I make Mr. Lovelace, if I allow it to be thought that I do really prefer him to such a man
as him they terrify me with? Then, my Miss Howe [concluded I] accuses me of a tameness which
subject me to insults from my brother: I will keep that dear friend in my eye; and for all
these considerations, try what a little of her spirit will do--sit it ever so awkwardly upon me.

In this way of thinking, I wrote to my brother and sister. This is my letter to him.

TREATED as I am, and, in a great measure, if not wholly, by your instigations, Brother, you
must permit me to expostulate with you upon the occasion. It is not my intention to displease
you in what I am going to write: and yet I must deal freely with you: the occasion calls for it.

And permit me, in the first place, to remind you, that I am your sister; and not your servant;
and that, therefore, the bitter revilings and passionate language brought me from you, upon
an occasion in which you have no reason to prescribe to me, are neither worthy of my character
to bear, nor of yours to offer.

Put the case, that I were to marry the man you dislike: and that he were not to make a polite
or tender husband, Is that a reason for you to be an unpolite and disobliging brother?--Why
must you, Sir, anticipate my misfortunes, were such a case to happen?--Let me tell you plainly,
that the man who could treat me as a wife, worse than you of late have treated me as a sister,
must be a barbarous man indeed.

Ask yourself, I pray you, Sir, if you would thus have treated your sister Bella, had she thought
fit to receive the addresses of the man so much hated by you?--If not, let me caution you,
my Brother, not to take your measures by what you think will be borne, but rather by what ought
to be offered.

How would you take it, if you had a brother, who, in a like case, were to act by you, as you
do by me?--You cannot but remember what a laconic answer you gave even to my father, who recommended
to you Miss Nelly D'Oily--You did not like her, were your words: and that was thought sufficient.

You must needs think, that I cannot but know to whom to attribute my disgraces, when I recollect
my father's indulgence to me, permitting me to decline several offers; and to whom, that a
common cause is endeavoured to be made, in favour of a man whose person and manners are more
exceptional than those of any of the gentlemen I have been permitted to refuse.

I offer not to compare the two men together: nor is there indeed the least comparison to be
made between them. All the difference to the one's disadvantage, if I did, is but one point--of
the greatest importance, indeed--But to whom of most importance?--To myself, surely, were I
to encourage his application: of the least to you. Nevertheless, if you do not, by your strange
politics, unite that man and me as joint sufferers in one cause, you shall find me as much
resolved to renounce him, as I am to refuse the other. I have made an overture to this purpose:
I hope you will not give me reason to confirm my apprehensions, that it will be owing to you
if it be not accepted.

It is a sad thing to have it to say, without being conscious of ever having given you cause
of offence, that I have in you a brother, but not a friend.

Perhaps you will not condescend to enter into the reasons of your late and present conduct
with a foolish sister. But if politeness, if civility, be not due to that character, and to
my sex, justice is.

Let me take the liberty further to observe, that the principal end of a young man's education
at the university, is, to learn him to reason justly, and to subdue the violence of his passions.
I hope, Brother, that you will not give room for any body who knows us both, to conclude, that
the toilette has taught the one more of the latter doctrine, than the university has taught
the other. I am truly sorry to have cause to say, that I have heard it often remarked, that
your uncontrouled passions are not a credit to your liberal education.

I hope, Sir, that you will excuse the freedom I have taken with you: you have given me too
much reason for it, and you have taken much greater with me, without reason:--so, if you are
offended, ought to look at the cause, and not at the effect:--then examining yourself, that
cause will cease, and there will not be any where a more accomplished gentleman than my brother.

Sisterly affection, I do assure you, Sir, (unkindly as you have used me,) and not the pertness
which of late you have been so apt to impute to me, is my motive in this hint. Let me invoke
your returning kindness, my only brother! And give me cause, I beseech you, to call you my
compassionating friend. For I am, and ever will be,

Your affectionate sister, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

***

This is my brother's answer.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

I KNOW there will be no end of your impertinent scribble, if I don't write to you. I write
therefore: but, without entering into argument with such a conceited and pert preacher and
questioner, it is, to forbid you to plague me with your quaint nonsense. I know not what wit
in a woman is good for, but to make her overvalue herself, and despise every other person.
Yours, Miss Pert, has set you above your duty, and above being taught or prescribed to, either
by parents, or any body else. But go on, Miss: your mortification will be the greater; that's
all, child. It shall, I assure you, if I can make it so, so long as you prefer that villainous
Lovelace, (who is justly hated by all your family) to every body. We see by your letter now
(what we too justly suspected before), most evidently we see, the hold he has got of your forward
heart. But the stronger the hold, the greater must be the force (and you shall have enough
of that) to tear such a miscreant from it. In me, notwithstanding your saucy lecturing, and
your saucy reflections before, you are sure of a friend, as well as of a brother, if it be
not your own fault. But if you will still think of such a wretch as that Lovelace, never expect
either friend or brother in

JA. HARLOWE.

***

I will now give you a copy of my letter to my sister; with her answer.

IN what, my dear Sister, have I offended you, that instead of endeavouring to soften my father's
anger against me, (as I am sure I should have done for you, had my unhappy case been yours,)
you should, in so hard-hearted a manner, join to aggravate not only his displeasure, but my
mother's against me. Make but my case your own, my dear Bella; and suppose you were commanded
to marry Mr. Lovelace, (to whom you are believed to have such an antipathy,) would you not
think it a very grievous injunction?--Yet cannot your dislike to Mr. Lovelace be greater than
mine is to Mr. Solmes. Nor are love and hatred voluntary passions.

My brother may perhaps think it a proof of a manly spirit, to shew himself an utter stranger
to the gentle passions. We have both heard him boast, that he never loved with distinction:
and, having predominating passions, and checked in his first attempt, perhaps he never will.
It is the less wonder, then, raw from the college, so lately himself the tutored, that he should
set up for a tutor, a prescriber to our gentler sex, whose tastes and manners are differently
formed: for what, according to his account, are colleges, but classes of tyrants, from the
upper students over the lower, and from them to the tutor?--That he, with such masculine passions
should endeavour to controul and bear down an unhappy sister, in a case where his antipathy,
and, give me leave to say, his ambition [once you would have allowed the latter to be his fault]
can be gratified by so doing, may not be quite so much to be wondered at--but that a sister
should give up the cause of a sister, and join with him to set her father and mother against
her, in a case that might have been her own--indeed, my Bella, this is not pretty in you.

There was a time that Mr. Lovelace was thought reclaimable, and when it was far from being
deemed a censurable view to hope to bring back to the paths of virtue and honour, a man of
his sense and understanding. I am far from wishing to make the experiment: but nevertheless
will say, that if I have not a regard for him, the disgraceful methods taken to compel me to
receive the addresses of such a man as Mr. Solmes are enough to induce it.

Do you, my Sister, for one moment, lay aside all prejudice, and compare the two men in their
births, their educations, their persons, their understandings, their manners, their air, and
their whole deportments; and in their fortunes too, taking in reversions; and then judge of
both; yet, as I have frequently offered, I will live single with all my heart, if that will do.

I cannot thus live in displeasure and disgrace. I would, if I could, oblige all my friends.
But will it be just, will it be honest, to marry a man I cannot endure? If I have not been
used to oppose the will of my father, but have always delighted to oblige and obey, judge of
the strength of my antipathy, by the painful opposition I am obliged to make, and cannot help it.

Pity then, my dearest Bella, my sister, my friend, my companion, my adviser, as you used to
be when I was happy, and plead for

Your ever-affectionate, CL. HARLOWE.

***

TO MISS CLARY HARLOWE

Let it be pretty or not pretty, in your wise opinion, I shall speak my mind, I will assure
you, both of you and your conduct in relation to this detested Lovelace. You are a fond foolish
girl with all your wisdom. Your letter shews that enough in twenty places. And as to your cant
of living single, nobody will believe you. This is one of your fetches to avoid complying with
your duty, and the will of the most indulgent parents in the world, as yours have been to you,
I am sure--though now they see themselves finely requited for it.

We all, indeed, once thought your temper soft and amiable: but why was it? You never were contradicted
before: you had always your own way. But no sooner do you meet with opposition in your wishes
to throw yourself away upon a vile rake, but you shew what you are. You cannot love Mr. Solmes!
that's the pretence; but Sister, Sister, let me tell you, that is because Lovelace has got
into your fond heart:--a wretch hated, justly hated, by us all; and who has dipped his hands
in the blood of your brother: yet him you would make our relation, would you?

I have no patience with you, but for putting the case of my liking such a vile wretch as him.
As to the encouragement you pretend he received formerly from all our family, it was before
we knew him to be so vile: and the proofs that had such force upon us, ought to have had some
upon you:--and would, had you not been a foolish forward girl; as on this occasion every body
sees you are.

O how you run out in favour of the wretch!--His birth, his education, his person, his understanding,
his manners, his air, his fortune--reversions too taken in to augment the surfeiting catalogue!
What a fond string of lovesick praises is here! And yet you would live single--Yes, I warrant!--when
so many imaginary perfections dance before your dazzled eye!--But no more--I only desire, that
you will not, while you seem to have such an opinion of your wit, think every one else a fool;
and that you can at pleasure, by your whining flourishes, make us all dance after your lead.

Write as often as you will, this shall be the last answer or notice you shall have upon this
subject from

ARABELLA HARLOWE.

***

I had in readiness a letter for each of my uncles; and meeting in the garden a servant of my
uncle Harlowe, I gave him to deliver according to their respective directions. If I am to form
a judgment by the answers I have received from my brother and sister, as above, I must not,
I doubt, expect any good from those letters. But when I have tried every expedient, I shall
have the less to blame myself for, if any thing unhappy should fall out. I will send you copies
of both, when I shall see what notice they will be thought worthy of, if of any.

LETTER XXX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY NIGHT, MARCH 12.

This man, this Lovelace, gives me great uneasiness. He is extremely bold and rash. He was this
afternoon at our church--in hopes to see me, I suppose: and yet, if he had such hopes, his
usual intelligence must have failed him.

Shorey was at church; and a principal part of her observation was upon his haughty and proud
behaviour when he turned round in the pew where he sat to our family-pew. My father and both
my uncles were there; so were my mother and sister. My brother happily was not.--They all came
home in disorder. Nor did the congregation mind any body but him; it being his first appearance
there since the unhappy rencounter.

What did the man come for, if he intended to look challenge and defiance, as Shorey says he
did, and as others, it seems, thought he did, as well as she? Did he come for my sake; and,
by behaving in such a manner to those present of my family, imagine he was doing me either
service or pleasure?--He knows how they hate him: nor will he take pains, would pains do, to
obviate their hatred.

You and I, my dear, have often taken notice of his pride; and you have rallied him upon it;
and instead of exculpating himself, he has owned it: and by owning it he has thought he has
done enough.

For my own part, I thought pride in his case an improper subject for raillery.--People of birth
and fortune to be proud, is so needless, so mean a vice!--If they deserve respect, they will
have it, without requiring it. In other words, for persons to endeavour to gain respect by
a haughty behaviour, is to give a proof that they mistrust their own merit: To make confession
that they know that their actions will not attract it.--Distinction or quality may be prided
in by those to whom distinction or quality is a new thing. And then the reflection and contempt
which such bring upon themselves by it, is a counter-balance.

Such added advantages, too, as this man has in his person and mien: learned also, as they say
he is: Such a man to be haughty, to be imperious!--The lines of his own face at the same time
condemning him--how wholly inexcusable!--Proud of what? Not of doing well: the only justifiable
pride.--Proud of exterior advantages!--Must not one be led by such a stop-short pride, as I
may call it, in him or her who has it, to mistrust the interior? Some people may indeed be
afraid, that if they did not assume, they would be trampled upon. A very narrow fear, however,
since they trample upon themselves, who can fear this. But this man must be secure that humility
would be an ornament to him.

He has talents indeed: but those talents and his personal advantages have been snares to him.
It is plain they have. And this shews, that, weighed in an equal balance, he would be found
greatly wanting.

Had my friends confided as they did at first, in that discretion which they do not accuse me
of being defective in, I dare say I should have found him out: and then should have been as
resolute to dismiss him, as I was to dismiss others, and as I am never to have Mr. Solmes.
O that they did but know my heart!--It shall sooner burst, than voluntarily, uncompelled, undriven,
dictate a measure that shall cast a slur either upon them, or upon my sex.

Excuse me, my dear friend, for these grave soliloquies, as I may call them. How have I run
from reflection to reflection!--But the occasion is recent--They are all in commotion below
upon it.

Shorey says, that Mr. Lovelace watched my mother's eye, and bowed to her: and she returned
the compliment. He always admired my mother. She would not, I believe, have hated him, had
she not been bid to hate him: and had it not been for the rencounter between him and her only son.

Dr. Lewen was at church; and observing, as every one else did, the disorder into which Mr.
Lovelace's appearance* had put all our family, was so good as to engage him in conversation,
when the service was over, till they were all gone to their coaches.

     * See Letter XXXI, for Mr. Lovelace's account of his
     behaviour and intentions in his appearance at church.

My uncles had my letters in the morning. They, as well as my father, are more and more incensed
against me, it seems. Their answers, if they vouchsafe to answer me, will demonstrate, I doubt
not, the unseasonableness of this rash man's presence at our church.

They are angry also, as I understand, with my mother, for returning his compliment. What an
enemy is hatred, even to the common forms of civility! which, however, more distinguish the
payer of a compliment, than the receiver. But they all see, they say, that there is but one
way to put an end to his insults. So I shall suffer: And in what will the rash man have benefited
himself, or mended his prospects?

I am extremely apprehensive that this worse than ghost-like appearance of his, bodes some still
bolder step. If he come hither (and very desirous he is of my leave to come) I am afraid there
will be murder. To avoid that, if there were no other way, I would most willingly be buried alive.

They are all in consultation--upon my letters, I suppose--so they were in the morning; which
occasioned my uncles to be at our church. I will send you the copies of those letters, as I
promised in my last, when I see whether I can give you their answers with them. This letter
is all--I cannot tell what--the effect of apprehension and displeasure at the man who has occasioned
my apprehensions. Six lines would have contained all that is in it to the purpose of my story.

CL. H.

LETTER XXXI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. MONDAY, MARCH 13.

In vain dost thou* and thy compeers press me to go to town, while I am in such an uncertainty
as I am in at present with this proud beauty. All the ground I have hitherto gained with her
is entirely owing to her concern for the safety of people whom I have reason to hate.

     *These gentlemen affected what they called the Roman style
     (to wit, the thee and the thou) in their letters: and it was
     an agreed rule with them, to take in good part whatever
     freedoms they treated each other with, if the passages were
     written in that style.

Write then, thou biddest me, if I will not come. That, indeed, I can do; and as well without
a subject, as with one. And what follows shall be a proof of it.

The lady's malevolent brother has now, as I told thee at M. Hall, introduced another man; the
most unpromising in his person and qualities, the most formidable in his offers, that has yet
appeared.

This man has by his proposals captivated every soul of the Harlowes--Soul! did I say--There
is not a soul among them but my charmer's: and she, withstanding them all, is actually confined,
and otherwise maltreated by a father the most gloomy and positive; at the instigation of a
brother the most arrogant and selfish. But thou knowest their characters; and I will not therefore
sully my paper with them.

But is it not a confounded thing to be in love with one, who is the daughter, the sister, the
niece, of a family, I must eternally despise? And, the devil of it, that love increasing with
her--what shall I call it?--'Tis not scorn:--'Tis not pride:--'Tis not the insolence of an
adored beauty:--But 'tis to virtue, it seems, that my difficulties are owin; and I pay for
not being a sly sinner, an hypocrite; for being regardless of my reputation; for permittin
slander to open its mouth against me. But is it necessary for such a one as I, who have been
used to carry all before me, upon my own terms--I, who never inspired a fear, that had not
a discernibly-predominant mixture of love in it, to be a hypocrite?--Well says the poet:

 He who seems virtuous does but act a part;
 And shews not his own nature, but his art.

Well, but it seems I must practise for this art, if it would succeed with this truly-admirable
creature; but why practise for it?--Cannot I indeed reform?--I have but one vice;--Have I,
Jack?--Thou knowest my heart, if any man living does. As far as I know it myself, thou knowest
it. But 'tis a cursed deceiver; for it has many a time imposed upon its master--Master, did
I say? That I am not now; nor have I been from the moment I beheld this angel of a woman. Prepared
indeed as I was by her character before I saw her: For what a mind must that be, which, though
not virtuous itself, admires not virtue in another?--My visit to Arabella, owing to a mistake
of the sister, into which, as thou hast heard me say, I was led by the blundering uncle; who
was to introduce me (but lately come from abroad) to the divinity, as I thought; but, instead
of her, carried me to a mere mortal. And much difficulty had I, so fond and forward my lady!
to get off without forfeiting all with a family I intended should give me a goddess.

I have boasted that I was once in love before:--and indeed I thought I was. It was in my early
manhood--with that quality jilt, whose infidelity I have vowed to revenge upon as many of the
sex as shall come into my power. I believe, in different climes, I have already sacrificed
an hecatomb to my Nemesis, in pursuance of this vow. But upon recollecting what I was then,
and comparing it with what I find myself now, I cannot say that I was ever in love before.

What was it then, dost thou ask me, since the disappointment had such effects upon me, when
I found myself jilted, that I was hardly kept in my senses?--Why, I'll grant thee what, as
near as I can remember; for it was a great while ago:--It was--Egad, Jack, I can hardly tell
what it was--but a vehement aspiration after a novelty, I think. Those confounded poets, with
their terrenely-celestial descriptions, did as much with me as the lady: they fired my imagination,
and set me upon a desire to become a goddess-maker. I must needs try my new-fledged pinions
in sonnet, elogy, and madrigal. I must have a Cynthia, a Stella, a Sacharissa, as well as the
best of them: darts and flames, and the devil knows what, must I give to my cupid. I must create
beauty, and place it where nobody else could find it: and many a time have I been at a loss
for a subject, when my new-created goddess has been kinder than it was proper for my plaintive
sonnet that she should be.

Then I found I had a vanity of another sort in my passion: I found myself well received among
the women in general; and I thought it a pretty lady-like tyranny [I was then very young, and
very vain!] to single out some one of the sex, to make half a score jealous. And I can tell
thee, it had its effect: for many an eye have I made to sparkle with rival indignation: many
a cheek glow; and even many a fan have I caused to be snapped at a sister-beauty; accompanied
with a reflection perhaps at being seen alone with a wild young fellow who could not be in
private with both at once.

In short, Jack, it was more pride than love, as I now find it, that put me upon making such
a confounded rout about losing that noble varletess. I thought she loved me at least as well
as I believed I loved her: nay, I had the vanity to suppose she could not help it. My friends
were pleased with my choice. They wanted me to be shackled: for early did they doubt my morals,
as to the sex. They saw, that the dancing, the singing, the musical ladies were all fond of
my company: For who [I am in a humour to be vain, I think!]--for who danced, who sung, who
touched the string, whatever the instrument, with a better grace than thy friend?

I have no notion of playing the hypocrite so egregiously, as to pretend to be blind to qualifications
which every one sees and acknowledges. Such praise-begetting hypocrisy! Such affectedly disclaimed
attributes! Such contemptible praise-traps!--But yet, shall my vanity extend only to personals,
such as the gracefulness of dress, my debonnaire, and my assurance?--Self-taught, self-acquired,
these!--For my parts, I value not myself upon them. Thou wilt say, I have no cause.--Perhaps
not. But if I had any thing valuable as to intellectuals, those are not my own; and to be proud
of what a man is answerable for the abuse of, and has no merit in the right use of, is to strut,
like the jay, in borrowed plumage.

But to return to my fair jilt. I could not bear, that a woman, who was the first that had bound
me in silken fetters [they were not iron ones, like those I now wear] should prefer a coronet
to me: and when the bird was flown, I set more value upon it, that when I had it safe in my
cage, and could visit in when I pleased.

But now am I indeed in love. I can think of nothing, of nobody, but the divine Clarissa Harlowe--Harlowe!--How
that hated word sticks in my throat--But I shall give her for it the name of Love.*

* Lovelace.

 CLARISSA! O there's music in the name,
 That, soft'ning me to infant tenderness,
 Makes my heart spring like the first leaps of life!

But couldst thou have believed that I, who think it possible for me to favour as much as I
can be favoured; that I, who for this charming creature think of foregoing the life of honour
for the life of shackles; could adopt these over-tender lines of Otway?

And with REVENGE it shall glow!--For, dost thou think, that if it were not from the hope, that
this stupid family are all combined to do my work for me, I would bear their insults?--Is it
possible to imagine, that I would be braved as I am braved, threatened as I am threatened,
by those who are afraid to see me; and by this brutal brother, too, to whom I gave a life;
[a life, indeed, not worth my taking!] had I not a greater pride in knowing that by means of
his very spy upon me, I am playing him off as I please; cooling or inflaming his violent passions
as may best suit my purposes; permitting so much to be revealed of my life and actions, and
intentions, as may give him such a confidence in his double-faced agent, as shall enable me
to dance his employer upon my own wires?

This it is that makes my pride mount above my resentment. By this engine, whose springs I am
continually oiling, I play them all off. The busy old tarpaulin uncle I make but my ambassador
to Queen Anabella Howe, to engage her (for example-sake to her princessly daughter) to join
in their cause, and to assert an authority they are resolved, right or wrong, (or I could do
nothing,) to maintain.

And what my motive, dost thou ask? No less than this, That my beloved shall find no protection
out of my family; for, if I know hers, fly she must, or have the man she hates. This, therefore,
if I take my measures right, and my familiar fail me not, will secure her mine, in spite of
them all; in spite of her own inflexible heart: mine, without condition; without reformation-promises;
without the necessity of a siege of years, perhaps; and to be even then, after wearing the
guise of merit-doubting hypocrisy, at an uncertainty, upon a probation unapproved of. Then
shall I have all the rascals and rascalesses of the family come creeping to me: I prescribing
to them; and bringing that sordidly imperious brother to kneel at the footstool of my throne.

All my fear arises from the little hold I have in the heart of this charming frost-piece: such
a constant glow upon her lovely features: eyes so sparkling: limbs so divinely turned: health
so florid: youth so blooming: air so animated--to have an heart so impenetrable: and I, the
hitherto successful Lovelace, the addresser--How can it be? Yet there are people, and I have
talked with some of them, who remember that she was born. Her nurse Norton boasts of her maternal
offices in her earliest infancy; and in her education gradatim. So there is full proof, that
she came not from above all at once an angel! How then can she be so impenetrable?

But here's her mistake; nor will she be cured of it--She takes the man she calls her father
[her mother had been faultless, had she not been her father's wife]; she takes the men she
calls her uncles; the fellow she calls her brother; and the poor contemptible she calls her
sister; to be her father, to be her uncles, her brother, her sister; and that, as such, she
owes to some of them reverence, to others respect, let them treat her ever so cruelly!--Sordid
ties!--Mere cradle prejudices!--For had they not been imposed upon her by Nature, when she
was in a perverse humour, or could she have chosen her relations, would any of these have been
among them?

How my heart rises at her preference of them to me, when she is convinced of their injustice
to me! Convinced, that the alliance would do honour to them all--herself excepted; to whom
every one owes honour; and from whom the most princely family might receive it. But how much
more will my heart rise with indignation against her, if I find she hesitates but one moment
(however persecuted) about preferring me to the man she avowedly hates! But she cannot surely
be so mean as to purchase her peace with them at so dear a rate. She cannot give a sanction
to projects formed in malice, and founded in a selfishness (and that at her own expense) which
she has spirit enough to despise in others; and ought to disavow, that we may not think her
a Harlowe.

By this incoherent ramble thou wilt gather, that I am not likely to come up in haste; since
I must endeavour first to obtain some assurance from the beloved of my soul, that I shall not
be sacrificed to such a wretch as Solmes! Woe be to the fair one, if ever she be driven into
my power (for I despair of a voluntary impulse in my favour) and I find a difficulty in obtaining
this security.

That her indifference to me is not owing to the superior liking she has for any other, is what
rivets my chains. But take care, fair one; take care, O thou most exalted of female minds,
and loveliest of persons, how thou debasest thyself by encouraging such a competition as thy
sordid relations have set on foot in mere malice to me!--Thou wilt say I rave. And so I do:

 Perdition catch my soul, but I do love her.

Else, could I hear the perpetual revilings of her implacable family?--Else, could I basely
creep about--not her proud father's house--but his paddock and garden walls?--Yet (a quarter
of a mile distance between us) not hoping to behold the least glimpse of her shadow?--Else,
should I think myself repaid, amply repaid, if the fourth, fifth, or sixth midnight stroll,
through unfrequented paths, and over briery enclosures, affords me a few cold lines; the even
expected purport only to let me know, that she values the most worthless person of her very
worthless family, more than she values me; and that she would not write at all, but to induce
me to bear insults, which unman me to bear?--My lodging in the intermediate way at a wretched
alehouse; disguised like an inmate of it: accommodations equally vile, as those I met with
in my Westphalian journey. 'Tis well, that the necessity for all this arise not from scorn
and tyranny! but is first imposed upon herself!

But was ever hero in romance (fighting with giants and dragons excepted) called upon to harder
trials?--Fortune and family, and reversionary grandeur on my side! Such a wretched fellow my
competitor!--Must I not be deplorably in love, that can go through these difficulties, encounter
these contempts?--By my soul, I am half ashamed of myself: I, who am perjured too, by priority
of obligation, if I am faithful to any woman in the world?

And yet, why say I, I am half ashamed?--Is it not a glory to love her
whom every one who sees her either loves, or reveres, or both?
 Who hast no certain what, nor where.  But SHE!--O SHE!
 So perfect and so peerless is created,
 Of ev'ry creature's best.

 SHAKESP.

Thou art curious to know, if I have not started a new game? If it be possible for so universal
a lover to be confined so long to one object?--Thou knowest nothing of this charming creature,
that thou canst put such questions to me; or thinkest thou knowest me better than thou dost.
All that's excellent in her sex is this lady!--Until by MATRIMONIAL or EQUAL intimacies, I
have found her less than angel, it is impossible to think of any other. Then there are so many
stimulatives to such a spirit as mine in this affair, besides love: such a field of stratagem
and contrivance, which thou knowest to be the delight of my heart. Then the rewarding end of
all!--To carry off such a girl as this, in spite of all her watchful and implacable friends;
and in spite of a prudence and reserve that I never met with in any of the sex;--what a triumph!--What
a triumph over the whole sex!--And then such a revenge to gratify; which is only at present
politically reined in, eventually to break forth with greater fury--Is it possible, thinkest
thou, that there can be room for a thought that is not of her, and devoted to her?

***

By the devices I have this moment received, I have reason to think, that I shall have occasion
for thee here. Hold thyself in readiness to come down upon the first summons.

Let Belton, and Mowbray, and Tourville, likewise prepare themselves. I have a great mind to
contrive a method to send James Harlowe to travel for improvement. Never was there a booby
'squire that more wanted it. Contrive it, did I say? I have already contrived it; could I but
put it in execution without being suspected to have a hand in it. This I am resolved upon;
if I have not his sister, I will have him.

But be this as it may, there is a present likelihood of room for glorious mischief. A confederacy
had been for some time formed against me; but the uncles and the nephew are now to be double-servanted
[single-servanted they were before]; and those servants are to be double armed when they attend
their masters abroad. This indicates their resolute enmity to me, and as resolute favour to Solmes.

The reinforced orders for this hostile apparatus are owing it seems to a visit I made yesterday
to their church.--A good place I thought to begin a reconciliation in; supposing the heads
of the family to be christians, and that they meant something by their prayers. My hopes were
to have an invitation (or, at least, to gain a pretence) to accompany home the gloomy sire;
and so get an opportunity to see my goddess: for I believed they durst not but be civil to
me, at least. But they were filled with terror it seems at my entrance; a terror they could
not get over. I saw it indeed in their countenances; and that they all expected something extraordinary
to follow.--And so it should have done, had I been more sure than I am of their daughter's
favour. Yet not a hair of any of their stupid heads do I intend to hurt.

You shall all have your directions in writing, if there be occasion. But after all, I dare
say there will be no need but to shew your faces in my company.

Such faces never could four men shew--Mowbray's so fierce and so fighting: Belton's so pert
and so pimply: Tourville's so fair and so foppish: thine so rough and so resolute: and I your
leader!--What hearts, although meditating hostility, must those be which we shall not appall?--Each
man occasionally attended by a servant or two, long ago chosen for qualities resembling those
of his master.

Thus, Jack, as thou desirest, have I written.--Written upon something; upon nothing; upon REVENGE,
which I love; upon LOVE, which I hate, heartily hate, because 'tis my master: and upon the
devil knows what besides: for looking back, I am amazed at the length of it. Thou mayest read
it: I would not for a king's ransom. But so as I do but write, thou sayest thou wilt be pleased.

Be pleased then. I command thee to be pleased: if not for the writer's or written sake, for
thy word's sake. And so in the royal style (for am I not likely to be thy king and thy emperor
in the great affair before us?) I bid thee very heartily

Farewell.

LETTER XXXII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY, MARCH 14.

I now send you copies of my letters to my uncles: with their answers. Be pleased to return
the latter by the first deposit. I leave them for you to make remarks upon. I shall make none.

TO JOHN HARLOWE, ESQ. SAT. MARCH 11.

Allow me, my honoured second Papa, as in my happy days you taught me to call you, to implore
your interest with my Papa, to engage him to dispense with a command, which, if insisted upon,
will deprive me of my free-will, and make me miserable for my whole life.

For my whole life! let me repeat: Is that a small point, my dear Uncle, to give up? Am not
I to live with the man? Is any body else? Shall I not therefore be allowed to judge for myself,
whether I can, or cannot, live happily with him?

Should it be ever so unhappily, will it be prudence to complain or appeal? If it were, to whom
could I appeal with effect against a husband? And would not the invincible and avowed dislike
I have for him at setting out, seem to justify any ill usage from him, in that state, were
I to be ever so observant of him? And if I were to be at all observant of him, it must be from
fear, not love.

Once more, let me repeat, That this is not a small point to give up: and that it is for life.
Why, I pray you, good Sir, should I be made miserable for life? Why should I be deprived of
all comfort, but that which the hope that it would be a very short one, would afford me?

Marriage is a very solemn engagement, enough to make a young creature's heart ache, with the
best prospects, when she thinks seriously of it!--To be given up to a strange man; to be engrafted
into a strange family; to give up her very name, as a mark of her becoming his absolute and
dependent property; to be obliged to prefer this strange man to father, mother--to every body:--and
his humours to all her own--or to contend, perhaps, in breach of avowed duty, for every innocent
instance of free-will. To go no where; to make acquaintance; to give up acquaintance; to renounce
even the strictest friendships, perhaps; all at his pleasure, whether she thinks it reasonable
to do so or not. Surely, Sir, a young creature ought not to be obliged to make all these sacrifices
but for such a man as she can love. If she be, how sad must be the case! How miserable the
life, if it can be called life!

I wish I could obey you all. What a pleasure would it be to me, if I could!--Marry first, and
love will come after, was said by one of my dearest friends! But this is a shocking assertion.
A thousand thing may happen to make that state but barely tolerable, where it is entered into
with mutual affections: What must it then be, where the husband can have no confidence in the
love of his wife: but has reason rather to question it, from the preference he himself believes
she would have given to somebody else, had she had her own option? What doubts, what jealousies,
what want of tenderness, what unfavourable prepossessions, will there be, in a matrimony thus
circumstanced! How will every look, every action, even the most innocent, be liable to misconstruction!--While,
on the other hand, an indifference, a carelessness to oblige, may take place; and fear only
can constrain even an appearance of what ought to be the effect of undisguised love!

Think seriously of these things, dear, good Sir, and represent them to my father in that strong
light which the subject will bear; but in which my sex, and my tender years and inexperience,
will not permit me to paint it; and use your powerful interest, that your poor niece may not
be consigned to a misery so durable.

I offered to engage not to marry at all, if that condition may be accepted. What a disgrace
is it to me to be thus sequestered from company, thus banished my papa's and mamma's presence;
thus slighted and deserted by you, Sir, and my other kind uncle! And to be hindered from attending
at that public worship, which, were I out of the way of my duty, would be most likely to reduce
me into the right path again!--Is this the way, Sir; can this be thought to be the way to be
taken with a free and open spirit? May not this strange method rather harden than convince?
I cannot bear to live in disgrace thus. The very servants so lately permitted to be under my
own direction, hardly daring to speak to me; my own servant discarded with high marks of undeserved
suspicion and displeasure, and my sister's maid set over me.

The matter may be too far pushed.--Indeed it may.--And then, perhaps, every one will be sorry
for their parts in it.

May I be permitted to mention an expedient?--'If I am to be watched, banished, and confined;
suppose, Sir, it were to be at your house?'--Then the neighbouring gentry will the less wonder,
that the person of whom they used to think so favourably, appear not at church here; and that
she received not their visits.

I hope there can be no objection to this. You used to love to have me with you, Sir, when all
went happily with me: And will you not now permit me, in my troubles, the favour of your house,
till all this displeasure is overblown?--Upon my word, Sir, I will not stir out of doors, if
you require the contrary of me: nor will I see any body, but whom you will allow me to see;
provided Mr. Solmes be not brought to persecute me there.

Procure, then, this favour for me; if you cannot procure the still greater, that of a happy
reconciliation (which nevertheless I presume to hope for, if you will be so good as to plead
for me); and you will then add to those favours and to that indulgence, which have bound me,
and will for ever bind me to be

Your dutiful and obliged niece, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

THE ANSWER

SUNDAY NIGHT.

MY DEAR NIECE,

It grieves me to be forced to deny you any thing you ask. Yet it must be so; for unless you
can bring your mind to oblige us in this one point, in which our promises and honour were engaged
before we believed there could be so sturdy an opposition, you must never expect to be what
you have been to us all.

In short, Niece, we are in an embattled phalanx. Your reading makes you a stranger to nothing
but what you should be most acquainted with. So you will see by that expression, that we are
not to be pierced by your persuasions, and invincible persistence. We have agreed all to be
moved, or none; and not to comply without one another. So you know your destiny; and have nothing
to do but to yield to it.

Let me tell you, the virtue of obedience lies not in obliging when you can be obliged again.
But give up an inclination, and there is some merit in that.

As to your expedient; you shall not come to my house, Miss Clary; though this is a prayer I
little thought I ever should have denied you: for were you to keep your word as to seeing nobody
but whom we please, yet can you write to somebody else, and receive letters from him. This
we too well know you can, and have done--more is the shame and the pity!

You offer to live single, Miss--we wished you married: but because you may not have the man
your heart is set upon, why, truly, you will have nobody we shall recommend: and as we know,
that somehow or other you correspond with him, or at least did as long as you could; and as
he defies us all, and would not dare to do so, if he were not sure of you in spite of us all,
(which is not a little vexatious to us, you must think,) we are resolved to frustrate him,
and triumph over him, rather than that he should triumph over us: that's one word for all.
So expect not any advocateship from me: I will not plead for you; and that's enough. From

Your displeased uncle, JOHN HARLOWE.

P.S. For the rest I refer to my brother Antony.

***

TO ANTONY HARLOWE, ESQ. SATURDAY, MARCH 11.

HONOURED SIR,

As you have thought fit to favour Mr. Solmes with your particular recommendation, and was very
earnest in his behalf, ranking him (as you told me, upon introducing him to me) among your
select friends; and expecting my regards to him accordingly; I beg your patience, while I offer
a few things, out of many that I could offer, to your serious consideration, on occasion of
his address to me, if I am to use that word.

I am charged with prepossession in another person's favour. You will be pleased, Sir, to remember,
that till my brother returned from Scotland, that other person was not absolutely discouraged,
nor was I forbid to receive his visits. I believe it will not be pretended, that in birth,
education, or personal endowments, a comparison can be made between the two. And only let me
ask you, Sir, if the one would have been thought of for me, had he not made such offers, as,
upon my word, I think, I ought not in justice to accept of, nor he to propose: offers, which
if he had not made, I dare say, my papa would not have required them of him.

But the one, it seems, has many faults:--Is the other faultless?--The principal thing objected
to Mr. Lovelace (and a very inexcusable one) is that he is immoral in his loves--Is not the
other in his hatreds?--Nay, as I may say, in his loves too (the object only differing) if the
love of money be the root of all evil.

But, Sir, if I am prepossessed, what has Mr. Solmes to hope for?--Why should he persevere?
What must I think of the man who would wish me to be his wife against my inclination?--And
is it not a very harsh thing for my friends to desire to see me married to one I cannot love,
when they will not be persuaded but that there is one whom I do love?

Treated as I am, now is the time for me to speak out or never.--Let me review what it is Mr.
Solmes depends upon on this occasion. Does he believe, that the disgrace which I supper on
his account, will give him a merit with me? Does he think to win my esteem, through my uncles'
sternness to me; by my brother's contemptuous usage; by my sister's unkindness; by being denied
to visit, or be visited; and to correspond with my chosen friend, although a person of unexceptionable
honour and prudence, and of my own sex; my servant to be torn from me, and another servant
set over me; to be confined, like a prisoner, to narrow and disgraceful limits, in order avowedly
to mortify me, and to break my spirit; to be turned out of that family-management which I loved,
and had the greater pleasure in it, because it was an ease, as I thought, to my mamma, and
what my sister chose not; and yet, though time hangs heavy upon my hands, to be so put out
of my course, that I have as little inclination as liberty to pursue any of my choice delights?--Are
these steps necessary to reduce me to a level so low, as to make me a fit wife for this man?--Yet
these are all he can have to trust to. And if his reliance is on these measures, I would have
him to know, that he mistakes meekness and gentleness of disposition for servility and baseness
of heart.

I beseech you, Sir, to let the natural turn and bent of his mind and my mind be considered:
What are his qualities, by which he would hope to win my esteem?--Dear, dear Sir, if I am to
be compelled, let it be in favour of a man that can read and write--that can teach me something:
For what a husband must that man make, who can do nothing but command; and needs himself the
instruction he should be qualified to give?

I may be conceited, Sir; I may be vain of my little reading; of my writing; as of late I have
more than once been told I am. But, Sir, the more unequal the proposed match, if so: the better
opinion I have of myself, the worse I must have of him; and the more unfit are we for each other.

Indeed, Sir, I must say, I thought my friends had put a higher value upon me. My brother pretended
once, that it was owing to such value, that Mr. Lovelace's address was prohibited.--Can this
be; and such a man as Mr. Solmes be intended for me?

As to his proposed settlements, I hope I shall not incur your great displeasure, if I say,
what all who know me have reason to think (and some have upbraided me for), that I despise
those motives. Dear, dear Sir, what are settlements to one who has as much of her own as she
wishes for?--Who has more in her own power, as a single person, than it is probable she would
be permitted to have at her disposal, as a wife?--Whose expenses and ambition are moderate;
and who, if she had superfluities, would rather dispense them to the necessitous, than lay
them by her useless? If then such narrow motives have so little weight with me for my own benefit,
shall the remote and uncertain view of family-aggrandizements, and that in the person of my
brother and his descendents, be thought sufficient to influence me?

Has the behaviour of that brother to me of late, or his consideration for the family (which
had so little weight with him, that he could choose to hazard a life so justly precious as
an only son's, rather than not ratify passions which he is above attempting to subdue, and,
give me leave to say, has been too much indulged in, either with regard to his own good, or
the peace of any body related to him;) Has his behaviour, I say, deserved of me in particular,
that I should make a sacrifice of my temporal (and, who knows? of my eternal) happiness, to
promote a plan formed upon chimerical, at least upon unlikely, contingencies; as I will undertake
to demonstrate, if I may be permitted to examine it?

I am afraid you will condemn my warmth: But does not the occasion require it? To the want of
a greater degree of earnestness in my opposition, it seems, it is owing, that such advances
have been made, as have been made. Then, dear Sir, allow something, I beseech you, for a spirit
raised and embittered by disgraces, which (knowing my own heart) I am confident to say, are
unmerited.

But why have I said so much, in answer to the supposed charge of prepossession, when I have
declared to my mamma, as now, Sir, I do to you, that if it be not insisted upon that I shall
marry any other person, particularly this Mr. Solmes, I will enter into any engagements never
to have the other, nor any man else, without their consents; that is to say, without the consents
of my father and my mother, and of you my uncle, and my elder uncle, and my cousin Morden,
as he is one of the trustees for my grandfather's bounty to me?--As to my brother indeed, I
cannot say, that his treatment of me has been of late so brotherly, as to entitle him to more
than civility from me: and for this, give me leave to add, he would be very much my debtor.

If I have not been explicit enough in declaring my dislike to Mr. Solmes (that the prepossession
which is charged upon me may not be supposed to influence me against him) I do absolutely declare,
That were there no such man as Mr. Lovelace in the world, I would not have Mr. Solmes. It is
necessary, in some one of my letters to my dear friends, that I should write so clearly as
to put this matter out of all doubt: and to whom can I better address myself with an explicitness
that can admit of no mistake, than to that uncle who professes the highest regard for plain-dealing
and sincerity?

Let me, for these reasons, be still more particular in some of my exceptions to him.

Mr. Solmes appears to me (to all the world, indeed) to have a very narrow mind, and no great
capacity: he is coarse and indelicate; as rough in his manners as in his person: he is not
only narrow, but covetous: being possessed of great wealth, he enjoys it not; nor has the spirit
to communicate to a distress of any kind. Does not his own sister live unhappily, for want
of a little of his superfluities? And suffers not he his aged uncle, the brother of his own
mother, to owe to the generosity of strangers the poor subsistence he picks up from half-a-dozen
families?--You know, Sir, my open, free, communicative temper: how unhappy must I be, circumscribed
in his narrow, selfish circle! out of which being with-held by this diabolical parsimony, he
dare no more stir, than a conjurer out of his; nor would let me.

Such a man, as this, love!--Yes, perhaps he may, my grandfather's estate; which he has told
several persons (and could not resist hinting the same thing tome, with that sort of pleasure
which a low mind takes, when it intimates its own interest as a sufficient motive for it to
expect another's favour) lies so extremely convenient for him, that it would double the value
of a considerable part of his own. That estate, and an alliance which would do credit to his
obscurity and narrowness, they make him think he can love, and induce him to believe he does:
but at most, he is but a second-place love. Riches were, are, and always will be, his predominant
passion. His were left him by a miser, on this very account: and I must be obliged to forego
all the choice delights of my life, and be as mean as he, or else be quite unhappy. Pardon,
Sir, this severity of expression--one is apt to say more than one would of a person one dislikes,
when more is said in his favour than he can possibly deserve; and when he is urged to my acceptance
with so much vehemence, that there is no choice left me.

Whether these things be perfectly so, or not, while I think they are, it is impossible I should
ever look upon Mr. Solmes in the light he is offered to me. Nay, were he to be proved ten times
better than I have represented him, and sincerely think him; yet would he be still ten times
more disagreeable to me than any other man I know in the world. Let me therefore beseech you,
Sir, to become an advocate for your niece, that she may not be made a victim to a man so highly
disgustful to her.

You and my other uncle can do a great deal for me, if you please, with my papa. Be persuaded,
Sir, that I am not governed by obstinacy in this case; but by aversion; an aversion I cannot
overcome: for, if I have but endeavoured to reason with myself, (out of regard to the duty
I owe to my father's will,) my heart has recoiled, and I have been averse to myself, for offering
but to argue with myself, in behalf of a man who, in the light he appears to me, has no one
merit; and who, knowing this aversion, could not persevere as he does, if he had the spirit
of a man.

If, Sir, you can think of the contents of this letter reasonable, I beseech you to support
them with your interest. If not--I shall be most unhappy!--Nevertheless, it is but just in
me so to write, as that Mr. Solmes may know what he has to trust to.

Forgive, dear Sir, this tedious letter; and suffer it to have weight with you; and you will
for ever oblige

Your dutiful and affectionate niece,

CL. HARLOWE.

***

MR. ANTONY HARLOWE, TO MISS CL. HARLOWE

NIECE CLARY,

You had better not write to us, or to any of us. To me, particularly, you had better never
to have set pen to paper, on the subject whereon you have written. He that is first in his
own cause, saith the wise man, seemeth just: but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him. And
so, in this respect, I will be your neighbour: for I will search your heart to the bottom;
that is to say, if your letter be written from your heart. Yet do I know what a task I have
undertaken, because of the knack you are noted for at writing. But in defence of a father's
authority, in behalf of the good, and honour, and prosperity of the family one comes of, what
a hard thing it would be, if one could not beat down all the arguments a rebel child (how loth
I am to write down that word of Miss Clary Harlowe!) can bring, in behalf of her obstinacy!

In the first place, don't you declare (and that contrary to your declarations to your mother,
remember that, girl!) that you prefer the man we all hate, and who hates us as bad!--Then what
a character have you given of a worthy man! I wonder you dare write so freely of one we all
respect--but possibly it may be for that very reason.

How you begin your letter!--Because I value Mr. Solmes as my friend, you treat him the worse--That's
the plain dunstable of the matter, Miss!--I am not such a fool but I can see that.--And so
a noted whoremonger is to be chosen before a man who is a money-lover!--Let me tell you, Niece,
this little becomes so nice a one as you have been always reckoned. Who, think you, does more
injustice, a prodigal man or a saving man?--The one saves his own money; the other spends other
people's. But your favourite is a sinner in grain, and upon record.

The devil's in your sex! God forgive me for saying so--the nicest of them will prefer a vile
rake and wh---- I suppose I must not repeat the word:--the word will offend, when the vicious
denominated by that word will be chosen!--I had not been a bachelor to this time, if I had
not seen such a mass of contradictions in you all.--Such gnat-strainers and camel-swallowers,
as venerable Holy Writ has it.

What names will perverseness call things by!--A prudent man, who intends to be just to every
body, is a covetous man!--While a vile, profligate rake is christened with the appellation
of a gallant man; and a polite man, I'll warrant you!

It is my firm opinion, Lovelace would not have so much regard for you as he professes, but
for two reasons. And what are these?--Why, out of spite to all of us--one of them. The other,
because of your independent fortune. I wish your good grandfather had not left what he did
so much in your own power, as I may say. But little did he imagine his beloved grand-daughter
would have turned upon all her friends as she has done!

What has Mr. Solmes to hope for, if you are prepossessed! Hey-day! Is this you, cousin Clary!--Has
he then nothing to hope for from your father's, and mother's, and our recommendations?--No,
nothing at all, it seems!--O brave!--I should think that this, with a dutiful child, as we
took you to be, was enough. Depending on this your duty, we proceeded: and now there is no
help for it: for we will not be balked: neither shall our friend Mr. Solmes, I can tell you that.

If your estate is convenient for him, what then? Does that (pert cousin) make it out that he
does not love you? He had need to expect some good with you, that has so little good to hope
for from you; mind that. But pray, is not this estate our estate, as we may say? Have we not
all an interest in it, and a prior right, if right were to have taken place? And was it not
more than a good old man's dotage, God rest his soul! that gave it you before us all?--Well
then, ought we not to have a choice who shall have it in marriage with you? and would you have
the conscience to wish us to let a vile fellow, who hates us all, run away with it?--You bid
me weigh what you write: do you weigh this, Girl: and it will appear we have more to say for
ourselves than you was aware of.

As to your hard treatment, as you call it, thank yourself for that. It may be over when you
will: so I reckon nothing upon that. You was not banished and confined till all entreaty and
fair speeches were tried with you: mind that. And Mr. Solmes can't help your obstinacy: let
that be observed too.

As to being visited, and visiting; you never was fond of either: so that's a grievance put
into the scale to make weight.--As to disgrace, that's as bad to us as to you: so fine a young
creature! So much as we used to brag of you too!--And besides, this is all in your power, as
the rest.

But your heart recoils, when you would persuade yourself to obey your parent--Finely described,
is it not!--Too truly described, I own, as you go on. I know that you may love him if you will.
I had a good mind to bid you hate him; then, perhaps, you would like him the better: for I
have always found a most horrid romantic perverseness in your sex.--To do and to love what
you should not, is meat, drink, and vesture, to you all.

I am absolutely of your brother's mind, That reading and writing, though not too much for the
wits of you young girls, are too much for your judgments.--You say, you may be conceited, Cousin;
you may be vain!--And so you are, to despise this gentleman as you do. He can read and write
as well as most gentlemen, I can tell you that. Who told you Mr. Solmes cannot read and write?
But you must have a husband who can learn you something!--I wish you knew but your duty as
well as you do your talents--that, Niece, you have of late days to learn; and Mr. Solmes will
therefore find something to instruct you in. I will not shew him this letter of yours, though
you seem to desire it, lest it should provoke him to be too severe a schoolmaster, when you
are his'n.

But now I think of it, suppose you are the reader at your pen than he--You will make the more
useful wife to him; won't you? For who so good an economist as you?--And you may keep all of
his accounts, and save yourselves a steward.--And, let me tell you, this is a fine advantage
in a family: for those stewards are often sad dogs, and creep into a man's estate before he
knows where he is; and not seldom is he forced to pay them interest for his own money.

I know not why a good wife should be above these things. It is better than lying a-bed half
the day, and junketing and card-playing all the night, and making yourselves wholly useless
to every good purpose in your own families, as is now the fashion among ye. The duce take you
all that do so, say I!--Only that, thank my stars, I am a bachelor.

Then this is a province you are admirably versed in: you grieve that it is taken from you here,
you know. So here, Miss, with Mr. Solmes you will have something to keep account of, for the
sake of you and your children: with the other, perhaps you will have an account to keep, too--but
an account of what will go over the left shoulder; only of what he squanders, what he borrows,
and what he owes, and never will pay. Come, come, Cousin, you know nothing of the world; a
man's a man; and you may have many partners in a handsome man, and costly ones too, who may
lavish away all you save. Mr. Solmes therefore for my money, and I hope for yours.

But Mr. Solmes is a coarse man. He is not delicate enough for your niceness; because I suppose
he dresses not like a fop and a coxcomb, and because he lays not himself out in complimental
nonsense, the poison of female minds. He is a man of sense, that I can tell you. No man talks
more to the purpose to us: but you fly him so, that he has no opportunity given him, to express
it to you: and a man who loves, if he have ever so much sense, looks a fool; especially when
he is despised, and treated as you treated him the last time he was in your company.

As to his sister; she threw herself away (as you want to do) against his full warning: for
he told her what she had to trust to, if she married where she did marry. And he was as good
as his word; and so an honest man ought: offences against warning ought to be smarted for.
Take care this be not your case: mind that.

His uncle deserves no favour from him; for he would have circumvented Mr. Solmes, and got Sir
Oliver to leave to himself the estate he had always designed for him his nephew, and brought
him up in the hope of it. Too ready forgiveness does but encourage offences: that's your good
father's maxim: and there would not be so many headstrong daughters as there are, if this maxim
were kept in mind.--Punishments are of service to offenders; rewards should be only to the
meriting: and I think the former are to be dealt out rigourously, in willful cases.

As to his love; he shews it but too much for your deservings, as they have been of late; let
me tell you that: and this is his misfortune; and may in time perhaps be yours.

As to his parsimony, which you wickedly call diabolical, [a very free word in your mouth, let
me tell ye], little reason have you of all people for this, on whom he proposes, of his own
accord, to settle all he has in the world: a proof, let him love riches as he will, that he
loves you better. But that you may be without excuse on this score, we will tie him up to your
own terms, and oblige him by the marriage-articles to allow you a very handsome quarterly sum
to do what you please with. And this has been told you before; and I have said it to Mrs. Howe
(that good and worthy lady) before her proud daughter, that you might hear of it again.

To contradict the charge of prepossession to Lovelace, you offer never to have him without
our consents: and what is this saying, but that you will hope on for our consents, and to wheedle
and tire us out? Then he will always be in expectation while you are single: and we are to
live on at this rate (are we?) vexed by you, and continually watchful about you; and as continually
exposed to his insolence and threats. Remember last Sunday, Girl!--What might have happened,
had your brother and he met?--Moreover, you cannot do with such a spirit as his, as you can
with worthy Mr. Solmes: the one you make tremble; the other will make you quake: mind that--and
you will not be able to help yourself. And remember, that if there should be any misunderstanding
between one of them and you, we should all interpose; and with effect, no doubt: but with the
other, it would be self-do, self-have; and who would either care or dare to put in a word for
you? Nor let the supposition of matrimonial differences frighten you: honey-moon lasts not
now-a-days above a fortnight; and Dunmow flitch, as I have been informed, was never claimed;
though some say once it was. Marriage is a queer state, Child, whether paired by the parties
or by their friends. Out of three brothers of us, you know, there was but one had courage to
marry. And why was it, do you think? We were wise by other people's experience.

Don't despise money so much: you may come to know the value of it: that is a piece of instruction
that you are to learn; and which, according to your own notions, Mr. Solmes will be able to
teach you.

I do indeed condemn your warmth. I will not allow for disgraces you bring upon yourself. If
I thought them unmerited, I would be your advocate. But it was always my notion, that children
should not dispute their parents' authority. When your grandfather left his estate to you,
though his three sons, and a grandson, and your elder sister, were in being, we all acquiesced:
and why? Because it was our father's doing. Do you imitate that example: if you will not, those
who set it you have the more reason to hold you inexcusable: mind that, Cousin.

You mention your brother too scornfully: and, in your letter to him, are very disrespectful;
and so indeed you are to your sister, in the letter you wrote to her. Your brother, Madam,
is your brother; and third older than yourself, and a man: and pray be so good as not to forget
what is due to a brother, who (next to us three brothers) is the head of the family, and on
whom the name depends--as upon your dutiful compliance laid down for the honour of the family
you are come of. And pray now let me ask you, If the honour of that will not be an honour to
you?--If you don't think so, the more unworthy you. You shall see the plan, if you promise
not to be prejudiced against it right or wrong. If you are not besotted to that man, I am sure
you will like it. If you are, were Mr. Solmes an angel, it would signify nothing: for the devil
is love, and love is the devil, when it gets into any of your heads. Many examples have I seen
of that.

If there were no such man as Lovelace in the world, you would not have Mr. Solmes.--You would
not, Miss!--Very pretty, truly!--We see how your spirit is embittered indeed.--Wonder not,
since it is come to your will not's, that those who have authority over you, say, You shall
have the other. And I am one: mind that. And if it behoves YOU to speak out, Miss, it behoves
US not to speak in. What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander: take that in your thought
too.

I humbly apprehend, that Mr. Solmes has the spirit of a man, and a gentleman. I would admonish
you therefore not to provoke it. He pities you as much as he loves you. He says, he will convince
you of his love by deeds, since he is not permitted by you to express it by words. And all
his dependence is upon your generosity hereafter. We hope he may depend upon that: we encourage
him to think he may. And this heartens him up. So that you may lay his constancy at your parents'
and your uncles' doors; and this will be another mark of your duty, you know.

You must be sensible, that you reflect upon your parents, and all of us, when you tell me you
cannot in justice accept of the settlements proposed to you. This reflection we should have
wondered at from you once; but now we don't.

There are many other very censurable passages in this free letter of yours; but we must place
them to the account of your embittered spirit. I am glad you mentioned that word, because we
should have been at a loss what to have called it.--I should much rather nevertheless have
had reason to give it a better name.

I love you dearly still, Miss. I think you, though my niece, one of the finest young gentlewomen
I ever saw. But, upon my conscience, I think you ought to obey your parents, and oblige me
and my brother John: for you know very well, that we have nothing but your good at heart: consistently
indeed with the good and honour of all of us. What must we think of any one of it, who would
not promote the good of the whole? and who would set one part of it against another?--Which
God forbid, say I!--You see I am for the good of all. What shall I get by it, let things go
as they will? Do I want any thing of any body for my own sake?--Does my brother John?--Well,
then, Cousin Clary, what would you be at, as I may say?

O but you can't love Mr. Solmes!--But, I say, you know not what you can do. You encourage yourself
in your dislike. You permit your heart (little did I think it was such a froward one) to recoil.
Take it to task, Niece; drive it on as fast as it recoils, [we do so in all our sea-fights,
and land-fights too, by our sailors and soldiers, or we should not conquer]; and we are all
sure you will overcome it. And why? Because you ought. So we think, whatever you think: and
whose thoughts are to be preferred? You may be wittier than we; but, if you were wiser, we
have lived some of us, let me tell you, to very little purpose, thirty or forty years longer
than you.

I have written as long a letter as yours. I may not write in so lively, or so polite a style
as my Niece: but I think I have all the argument on my side: and you will vastly oblige me,
if you will shew me, by your compliance with all our desires, that you think so too. If you
do not, you must not expect an advocate, or even a friend, in me, dearly as I love you. For
then I shall be sorry to be called

Your uncle, ANT. HARLOWE.

TUESDAY, TWO IN THE MORNING. POSTSCRIPT.

You must send me no more letters: but a compliable one you may send. But I need not have forbid
you; for I am sure this, by fair argument, is unanswerable--I know it is. I have written day
and night, I may say, ever since Sunday morning, only church-time, or the like of that: but
this is the last, I can tell you, from

ANT. H.

LETTER XXXIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE THURSDAY, MARCH 16.

Having met with such bad success in my application to my relations, I have taken a step that
will surprise you. It is no other than writing a letter to Mr. Solmes himself. I sent it, and
have his answer. He had certainly help in it. For I have seen a letter of his, and indifferently
worded, as poorly spelt. Yet the superscription is of his dictating, I dare say, for he is
a formal wretch. With these, I shall enclose one from my brother to me, on occasion of mine
to Mr. Solmes. I did think that it was possible to discourage the man from proceeding; and
if I could have done that, it would have answered all my wishes. It was worth the trial. But
you'll see nothing will do. My brother has taken his measures too securely.

TO ROGER SOLMES, ESQ. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15.

SIR,

You will wonder to receive a letter from me; and more still at the uncommon subject of it.
But the necessity of the case will justify me, at least in my own apprehension; and I shall
therefore make no other apology for it.

When you first came acquainted with our family, you found the writer of this one of the happiest
creatures in the world; beloved by the best and most indulgent of parents; and rejoicing in
the kind favour of two affectionate uncles, and in the esteem of every one.

But how is this scene now changed!--You was pleased to cast a favourable eye upon me. You addressed
yourself to my friends: your proposals were approved of by them--approved of without consulting
me; as if my choice and happiness were of the least signification. Those who had a right to
all reasonable obedience from me, insisted upon it without reserve. I had not the felicity
to think as they did; almost the first time my sentiments differed from theirs. I besought
them to indulge me in a point so important to my future happiness: but, alas, in vain! And
then (for I thought it was but honest) I told you my mind; and even that my affections were
engaged. But, to my mortification and surprise, you persisted, and still persist.

The consequence of all is too grievous for me to repeat: you, who have such free access to
the rest of the family, know it too well--too well you know it, either for the credit of your
own generosity, or for my reputation. I am used, on your account, as I never before was used,
and never before was thought to deserve to be used; and this was the hard, the impossible,
condition of their returning favour, that I must prefer a man to all others, that of all others
I cannot prefer.

Thus distressed, and made unhappy, and all to your sake, and through your cruel perseverance,
I write, Sir, to demand of you the peace of mind you have robbed me of: to demand of you the
love of so many dear friends, of which you have deprived me; and, if you have the generosity
that should distinguish a man, and a gentleman, to adjure you not to continue an address that
has been attended with such cruel effects to the creature you profess to esteem.

If you really value me, as my friends would make me believe, and as you have declared you do,
must it not be a mean and selfish value? A value that can have no merit with the unhappy object
of it, because it is attended with effects so grievous to her? It must be for your own sake
only, not for mine. And even in this point you must be mistaken: For, would a prudent man wish
to marry one who has not a heart to give? Who cannot esteem him? Who therefore must prove a
bad wife!--And how cruel would it be to make a poor creature a bad wife, whose pride it would
be to make a good one!

If I am capable of judging, our tempers and inclinations are vastly different. Any other of
my sex will make you happier than I can. The treatment I meet with, and the obstinacy, as it
is called, with which I support myself under it, ought to convince you of this; were I not
able to give so good a reason for this my supposed perverseness, as that I cannot consent to
marry a man whom I cannot value.

But if, Sir, you have not so much generosity in your value for me, as to desist for my own
sake, let me conjure you, by the regard due to yourself, and to your own future happiness,
to discontinue your suit, and place your affections on a worthier object: for why should you
make me miserable, and yourself not happy? By this means you will do all that is now in your
power to restore to me the affection of my friends; and, if that can be, it will leave me in
as happy a state as you found me in. You need only to say, that you see there are no HOPES,
as you will perhaps complaisantly call it, of succeeding with me [and indeed, Sir, there cannot
be a greater truth]; and that you will therefore no more think of me, but turn your thoughts
another way.

Your compliance with this request will lay me under the highest obligation to your generosity,
and make me ever

Your well-wisher, and humble servant, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE These most humbly present.

DEAREST MISS,

Your letter has had a very contrary effect upon me, to what you seem to have expected from
it. It has doubly convinced me of the excellency of your mind, and of the honour of your disposition.
Call it selfish, or what you please, I must persist in my suit; and happy shall I be, if by
patience and perseverance, and a steady and unalterable devoir, I may at last overcome the
difficulty laid in my way.

As your good parents, your uncles, and other friends, are absolutely determined you shall never
have Mr. Lovelace, if they can help it; and as I presume no other person is in the way, I will
contentedly wait the issue of this matter. And forgive me, dearest Miss, but a person should
sooner persuade me to give up to him my estate, as an instance of my generosity, because he
could not be happy without it, than I would a much more valuable treasure, to promote the felicity
of another, and make his way easier to circumvent myself.

Pardon me, dear Miss; but I must persevere, though I am sorry you suffer on my account, as
you are pleased to think; for I never before saw the woman I could love: and while there is
any hope, and that you remain undisposed of to some happier man, I must and will be

Your faithful and obsequious admirer, ROGER SOLMES.

MARCH 16.

***

MR. JAMES HARLOWE, TO MISS CL. HARLOWE MARCH 16.

What a fine whim you took into your head, to write a letter to Mr. Solmes, to persuade him
to give up his pretensions to you!--Of all the pretty romantic flights you have delighted in,
this was certainly one of the most extraordinary. But to say nothing of what fires us all with
indignation against you (your owning your prepossession in a villain's favour, and your impertinence
to me, and your sister, and your uncles; one of which has given it you home, child), how can
you lay at Mr. Solmes's door the usage you so bitterly complain of?--You know, little fool
as you are, that it is your fondness for Lovelace that has brought upon you all these things;
and which would have happened, whether Mr. Solmes had honoured you with his addresses or not.

As you must needs know this to be true, consider, pretty witty Miss, if your fond, love-sick
heart can let you consider, what a fine figure all your expostulations with us, and charges
upon Mr. Solmes, make!--With what propriety do you demand of him to restore to you your former
happiness (as you call it, and merely call it; for if you thought our favour so, you would
restore it to yourself), since it is yet in your own power to do so? Therefore, Miss Pert,
none of your pathetics, except in the right place. Depend upon it, whether you have Mr. Solmes,
or not, you shall never have your heart's delight, the vile rake Lovelace, if our parents,
if our uncles, if I, can hinder it. No! you fallen angel, you shall not give your father and
mother such a son, nor me such a brother, in giving yourself that profligate wretch for a husband.
And so set your heart at rest, and lay aside all thoughts of him, if ever you expect forgiveness,
reconciliation, or a kind opinion, from any of your family; but especially from him, who, at
present, styles himself

Your brother, JAMES HARLOWE.

P.S. I know your knack at letter-writing. If you send me an answer for this, I will return
it unopened; for I will not argue with your perverseness in so plain a case--Only once for
all, I was willing to put you right as to Mr. Solmes; whom I think to blame to trouble his
head about you.

LETTER XXXIV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ. FRIDAY, MARCH 17.

I receive, with great pleasure, the early and cheerful assurances of your loyalty and love.
And let our principal and most trusty friends named in my last know that I do.

I would have thee, Jack, come down, as soon as thou canst. I believe I shall not want the others
so soon. Yet they may come down to Lord M.'s. I will be there, if not to receive them, to satisfy
my lord, that there is no new mischief in hand, which will require his second intervention.

For thyself, thou must be constantly with me: not for my security: the family dare do nothing
but bully: they bark only at a distance: but for my entertainment: that thou mayest, from the
Latin and the English classics, keep my lovesick soul from drooping.

Thou hadst best come to me here, in thy old corporal's coat: thy servant out of livery; and
to be upon a familiar footing with me, as a distant relation, to be provided for by thy interest
above--I mean not in Heaven, thou mayest be sure. Thou wilt find me at a little alehouse, they
call it an inn; the White Hart, most terribly wounded, (but by the weather only,) the sign:
in a sorry village, within five miles from Harlowe-place. Every body knows Harlowe-place, for,
like Versailles, it is sprung up from a dunghill, within every elderly person's remembrance.
Every poor body, particularly, knows it: but that only for a few years past, since a certain
angel has appeared there among the sons and daughters of men.

The people here at the Hart are poor, but honest; and have gotten it into their heads, that
I am a man of quality in disguise; and there is no reining-in their officious respect. Here
is a pretty little smirking daughter, seventeen six days ago. I call her my Rose-bud. Her grandmother
(for there is no mother), a good neat old woman, as ever filled a wicker chair in a chimney-corner,
has besought me to be merciful to her.

This is the right way with me. Many and many a pretty rogue had I spared, whom I did not spare,
had my power been acknowledged, and my mercy in time implored. But the debellare superbos should
be my motto, were I to have a new one.

This simple chit (for there is a simplicity in her thou wouldst be highly pleased with: all
humble; all officious; all innocent--I love her for her humility, her officiousness, and even
for her innocence) will be pretty amusement to thee; while I combat with the weather, and dodge
and creep about the walls and purlieus of Harlowe-place. Thou wilt see in her mind, all that
her superiors have been taught to conceal, in order to render themselves less natural, and
of consequence less pleasing.

But I charge thee, that thou do not (what I would not permit myself to do for the world--I
charge thee, that thou do not) crop my Rose-bud. She is the only flower of fragrance, that
has blown in this vicinage for ten years past, or will for ten years to come: for I have looked
backward to the have-been's, and forward to the will-be's; having but too much leisure upon
my hands in my present waiting.

I never was so honest for so long together since my matriculation. It behoves me so to be--some
way or other, my recess at this little inn may be found out; and it will then be thought that
my Rose-bud has attracted me. A report in my favour, from simplicities so amiable, may establish
me; for the grandmother's relation to my Rose-bud may be sworn to: and the father is an honest,
poor man; has no joy, but in his Rose-bud.--O Jack! spare thou, therefore, (for I shall leave
thee often alone with her, spare thou) my Rose-bud!--Let the rule I never departed from, but
it cost me a long regret, be observed to my Rose-bud!--never to ruin a poor girl, whose simplicity
and innocence were all she had to trust to; and whose fortunes were too low to save her from
the rude contempts of worse minds than her own, and from an indigence extreme: such a one will
only pine in secret; and at last, perhaps, in order to refuge herself from slanderous tongues
and virulence, be induced to tempt some guilty stream, or seek her end in the knee-encircling
garter, that peradventure, was the first attempt of abandoned love.--No defiances will my Rose-bud
breathe; no self-dependent, thee-doubting watchfulness (indirectly challenging thy inventive
machinations to do their worst) will she assume. Unsuspicious of her danger, the lamb's throat
will hardly shun thy knife!--O be not thou the butcher of my lambkin!

The less thou be so, for the reason I am going to give thee--The gentle heart is touched by
love: her soft bosom heaves with a passion she has not yet found a name for. I once caught
her eye following a young carpenter, a widow neighbour's son, living [to speak in her dialect]
at the little white house over the way. A gentle youth he also seems to be, about three years
older than herself: playmates from infancy, till his eighteenth and her fifteenth year furnished
a reason for a greater distance in shew, while their hearts gave a better for their being nearer
than ever--for I soon perceived the love reciprocal. A scrape and a bow at first seeing his
pretty mistress; turning often to salute her following eye; and, when a winding lane was to
deprive him of her sight, his whole body turned round, his hat more reverently doffed than
before. This answered (for, unseen, I was behind her) by a low courtesy, and a sigh, that Johnny
was too far off to hear!--Happy whelp! said I to myself.--I withdrew; and in tript my Rose-bud,
as if satisfied with the dumb shew, and wishing nothing beyond it.

I have examined the little heart. She has made me her confidant. She owns, she could love Johnny
Barton very well: and Johnny Barton has told her, he could love her better than any maiden
he ever saw--but, alas! it must not be thought of. Why not be thought of!--She don't know!--And
then she sighed: But Johnny has an aunt, who will give him an hundred pounds, when his time
is out; and her father cannot give her but a few things, or so, to set her out with: and though
Johnny's mother says, she knows not where Johnny would have a prettier, or notabler wife, yet--And
then she sighed again--What signifies talking?--I would not have Johnny be unhappy and poor
for me!--For what good would that do me, you know, Sir!

What would I give [by my soul, my angel will indeed reform me, if her friends' implacable folly
ruin us not both!--What would I give] to have so innocent and so good a heart, as either my
Rose-bud's, or Johnny's!

I have a confounded mischievous one--by nature too, I think!--A good motion now-and-then rises
from it: but it dies away presently--a love of intrigue--an invention for mischief--a triumph
in subduing--fortune encouraging and supporting--and a constitution--What signifies palliating?
But I believe I had been a rogue, had I been a plough-boy.

But the devil's in this sex! Eternal misguiders. Who, that has once trespassed with them, ever
recovered his virtue? And yet where there is not virtue, which nevertheless we freelivers are
continually plotting to destroy, what is there even in the ultimate of our wishes with them?--Preparation
and expectation are in a manner every thing: reflection indeed may be something, if the mind
be hardened above feeling the guilt of a past trespass: but the fruition, what is there in
that? And yet that being the end, nature will not be satisfied without it.

See what grave reflections an innocent subject will produce! It gives me some pleasure to think,
that it is not out of my power to reform: but then, Jack, I am afraid I must keep better company
than I do at present--for we certainly harden one another. But be not cast down, my boy; there
will be time enough to give the whole fraternity warning to choose another leader: and I fancy
thou wilt be the man.

Mean time, as I make it my rule, whenever I have committed a very capital enormity, to do some
good by way of atonement; and as I believe I am a pretty deal indebted on that score, I intend,
before I leave these parts (successfully shall I leave them I hope, or I shall be tempted to
double the mischief by way of revenge, though not to my Rose-bud any) to join an hundred pounds
to Johnny's aunt's hundred pounds, to make one innocent couple happy.--I repeat therefore,
and for half a dozen more therefores, spare thou my Rose-bud.

An interruption--another letter anon; and both shall go together.

LETTER XXXV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.

I have found out by my watchful spy almost as many of my charmer's motions, as those of the
rest of her relations. It delights me to think how the rascal is caressed by the uncles and
nephew; and let into their secrets; yet it proceeds all the time by my line of direction. I
have charged him, however, on forfeiture of his present weekly stipend, and my future favour,
to take care, that neither my beloved, nor any of the family suspect him: I have told him that
he may indeed watch her egresses and regresses; but that only keep off other servants from
her paths; yet not to be seen by her himself.

The dear creature has tempted him, he told them, with a bribe [which she never offered] to
convey a letter [which she never wrote] to Miss Howe; he believes, with one enclosed (perhaps
to me): but he declined it: and he begged they would take notice of it to her. This brought
him a stingy shilling; great applause; and an injunction followed it to all the servants, for
the strictest look-out, lest she should contrive some way to send it--and, above an hour after,
an order was given him to throw himself in her way; and (expressing his concern for denying
her request) to tender his service to her, and to bring them her letter: which it will be proper
for him to report that she has refused to give him.

Now seest thou not, how many good ends this contrivance answers?

In the first place, the lady is secured by it, against her own knowledge, in the liberty allowed
her of taking her private walks in the garden: for this attempt has confirmed them in their
belief, that now they have turned off her maid, she has no way to send a letter out of the
house: if she had, she would not have run the risque of tempting a fellow who had not been
in her secret--so that she can prosecute unsuspectedly her correspondence with me and Miss Howe.

In the next place, it will perhaps afford me an opportunity of a private interview with her,
which I am meditating, let her take it as she will; having found out by my spy (who can keep
off every body else) that she goes every morning and evening to a wood-house remote from the
dwelling-house, under pretence of visiting and feeding a set of bantam-poultry, which were
produced from a breed that was her grandfather's, and of which for that reason she is very
fond; as also of some other curious fowls brought from the same place. I have an account of
all her motions here. And as she has owned to me in one of her letters that she corresponds
privately with Miss Howe, I presume it is by this way.

The interview I am meditating, will produce her consent, I hope, to other favours of the like
kind: for, should she not choose the place in which I am expecting to see her, I can attend
her any where in the rambling Dutch-taste garden, whenever she will permit me that honour:
for my implement, high Joseph Leman, has procured me the opportunity of getting two keys made
to the garden-door (one of which I have given him for reasons good); which door opens to the
haunted coppice, as tradition has made the servants think it; a man having been found hanging
in it about twenty years ago: and Joseph, upon proper notice, will leave it unbolted.

But I was obliged previously to give him my honour, that no mischief should happen to any of
my adversaries, from this liberty: for the fellow tells me, that he loves all his masters:
and, only that he knows I am a man of honour; and that my alliance will do credit to the family;
and after prejudices are overcome, every body will think so; or he would not for the world
act the part he does.

There never was a rogue, who had not a salvo to himself for being so.--What a praise to honesty,
that every man pretends to it, even at the instant that he knows he is pursuing the methods
that will perhaps prove him a knave to the whole world, as well as to his own conscience!

But what this stupid family can mean, to make all this necessary, I cannot imagine. My REVENGE
and my LOVE are uppermost by turns. If the latter succeed not, the gratifying of the former
will be my only consolation: and, by all that's good, they shall feel it; although for it I
become an exile from my native country for ever.

I will throw myself into my charmer's presence. I have twice already attempted it in vain.
I shall then see what I may depend upon from her favour. If I thought I had no prospect of
that, I should be tempted to carry her off. That would be a rape worthy of Jupiter!

But all gentle shall be my movements: all respectful, even to reverence, my address to her--her
hand shall be the only witness to the pressure of my lip--my trembling lip: I know it will
tremble, if I do not bid it tremble. As soft my sighs, as the sighs of my gentle Rose-bud.
By my humility will I invite her confidence: the loneliness of the place shall give me no advantage:
to dissipate her fears, and engage her reliance upon my honour for the future, shall be my
whole endeavour: but little will I complain of, not at all will I threaten, those who are continually
threatening me: but yet with a view to act the part of Dryden's lion; to secure my love, or
to let loose my vengeance upon my hunters.

 What tho' his mighty soul his grief contains?
 He meditates revenge who least complains:
 And like a lion slumb'ring in his way,
 Or sleep dissembling, while he waits his prey,
 His fearless foes within his distance draws,
 Constrains his roaring, and contracts his paws:
 Till at the last, his time for fury found,
 He shoots with sudden vengeance from the ground:
 The prostrate vulgar passes o'er, and spares,
 But, with a lordly rage, his hunter tears.

LETTER XXXVI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SATURDAY, MARCH 18.

I have been frighted out of my wits--still am in a manner out of breath--thus occasioned--I
went down, under the usual pretence, in hopes to find something from you. Concerned at my disappointment,
I was returning from the wood-house, when I heard a rustling as of somebody behind a stack
of wood. I was extremely surprised: but still more, to behold a man coming from behind the
furthermost stack. Oh! thought I, at that moment, the sin of a prohibited correspondence!

In the same point of time that I saw him, he besought me not to be frighted: and, still nearer
approaching me, threw open a horseman's coat: And who should it be but Mr. Lovelace!--I could
not scream out (yet attempted to scream, the moment I saw a man; and again, when I saw who
it was); for I had no voice: and had I not caught hold of a prop which supported the old roof,
I should have sunk.

I had hitherto, as you know, kept him at a distance: And now, as I recovered myself, judge
of my first emotions, when I recollected his character from every mouth of my family; his enterprising
temper; and found myself alone with him, in a place so near a bye-lane, and so remote from
the house.

But his respectful behaviour soon dissipated these fears, and gave me others; lest we should
be seen together, and information of it given to my brother: the consequences of which, I could
readily think, would be, if not further mischief, an imputed assignation, a stricter confinement,
a forfeited correspondence with you, my beloved friend, and a pretence for the most violent
compulsion: and neither the one set of reflections, nor the other, acquitted him to me for
his bold intrusion.

As soon therefore as I could speak, I expressed with the greatest warmth my displeasure; and
told him, that he cared not how much he exposed me to the resentment of all my friends, provided
he could gratify his own impetuous humour. I then commanded him to leave the place that moment;
and was hurrying from him, when he threw himself in the way at my feet, beseeching my stay
for one moment; declaring, that he suffered himself to be guilty of this rashness, as I thought
it, to avoid one much greater:--for, in short, he could not bear the hourly insults he received
from my family, with the thoughts of having so little interest in my favour, that he could
not promise himself that his patience and forbearance would be attended with any other issue
than to lose me for ever, and be triumphed over and insulted upon it.

This man, you know, has very ready knees. You have said, that he ought, in small points, frequently
to offend, on purpose to shew what an address he is master of.

He ran on, expressing his apprehensions that a temper so gentle and obliging, as he said mine
was, to every body but him, (and a dutifulness so exemplary inclined me to do my part to others,
whether they did theirs or not by me,) would be wrought upon in favour of a man set up in part
to be revenged upon myself, for my grandfather's envied distinction of me; and in part to be
revenged upon him, for having given life to one, who would have taken his; and now sought to
deprive him of hopes dearer to him than life.

I told him, he might be assured, that the severity and ill-usage I met with would be far from
effecting the proposed end: that although I could, with great sincerity, declare for a single
life (which had always been my choice); and particularly, that if ever I married, if they would
not insist upon the man I had an aversion to, it should not be with the man they disliked--

He interrupted me here: He hoped I would forgive him for it; but he could not help expressing
his great concern, that, after so many instances of his passionate and obsequious devotion--

And pray, Sir, said I, let me interrupt you in my turn;--Why don't you assert, in still plainer
words, the obligation you have laid me under by this your boasted devotion? Why don't you let
me know, in terms as high as your implication, that a perseverance I have not wished for, which
has set all my relations at variance with me, is a merit that throws upon me the guilt of ingratitude
for not having answered it as you seem to expect?

I must forgive him, he said, if he, who pretended only to a comparative merit, (and otherwise
thought no man living could deserve me,) had presumed to hope for a greater share in my favour,
than he had hitherto met with, when such men as Mr. Symmes, Mr. Wyerley, and now, lastly, so
vile a reptile as this Solmes, however discouraged by myself, were made his competitors. As
to the perseverance I mentioned, it was impossible for him not to persevere: but I must needs
know, that were he not in being, the terms Solmes had proposed were such, as would have involved
me in the same difficulties with my relations that I now laboured under. He therefore took
the liberty to say, that my favour to him, far from increasing those difficulties, would be
the readiest way to extricate me from them. They had made it impossible [he told me, with too
much truth] to oblige them any way, but by sacrificing myself to Solmes. They were well apprized
besides of the difference between the two; one, whom they hoped to manage as they pleased;
the other, who could and would protect me from every insult; and who had natural prospects
much superior to my brother's foolish views of a title.

How comes this man to know so well all our foibles? But I more wonder, how he came to have
a notion of meeting me in this place?

I was very uneasy to be gone; and the more as the night came on apace. But there was no getting
from him, till I had heard a great deal more of what he had to say.

As he hoped, that I would one day make him the happiest man in the world, he assured me, that
he had so much regard for my fame, that he would be as far from advising any step that was
likely to cast a shade upon my reputation, (although that step was to be ever so much in his
own favour,) as I would be to follow such advice. But since I was not to be permitted to live
single, he would submit it to my consideration, whether I had any way but one to avoid the
intended violence to my inclinations--my father so jealous of his authority: both my uncles
in my father's way of thinking: my cousin Morden at a distance: my uncle and aunt Hervey awed
into insignificance, was his word: my brother and sister inflaming every one: Solmes's offers
captivating: Miss Howe's mother rather of a party with them, for motives respecting example
to her own daughter.

And then he asked me, if I would receive a letter from Lady Betty Lawrance, on this occasion:
for Lady Sarah Sadleir, he said, having lately lost her only child, hardly looked into the
world, or thought of it farther than to wish him married, and, preferably to all the women
in the world, with me.

To be sure, my dear, there is a great deal in what the man said--I may be allowed to say this,
without an imputed glow or throb. But I told him nevertheless, that although I had great honour
for the ladies he was related to, yet I should not choose to receive a letter on a subject
that had a tendency to promote an end I was far from intending to promote: that it became me,
ill as I was treated at present, to hope every thing, to bear every thing, and to try ever
thing: when my father saw my steadfastness, and that I would die rather than have Mr. Solmes,
he would perhaps recede--

Interrupting me, he represented the unlikelihood there was of that, from the courses they had
entered upon; which he thus enumerated:--Their engaging Mrs. Howe against me, in the first
place, as a person I might have thought to fly to, if pushed to desperation--my brother continually
buzzing in my father's ears, that my cousin Morden would soon arrive, and then would insist
upon giving me possession of my grandfather's estate, in pursuance of the will; which would
render me independent of my father--their disgraceful confinement of me--their dismissing so
suddenly my servant, and setting my sister's over me--their engaging my mother, contrary to
her own judgment, against me: these, he said, were all so many flagrant proofs that they would
stick at nothing to carry their point; and were what made him inexpressibly uneasy.

He appealed to me, whether ever I knew my father recede from any resolution he had once fixed;
especially, if he thought either his prerogative, or his authority concerned in the question.
His acquaintance with our family, he said, enabled him to give several instances (but they
would be too grating to me) of an arbitrariness that had few examples even in the families
of princes: an arbitrariness, which the most excellent of women, my mother, too severely experienced.
He was proceeding, as I thought, with reflections of this sort; and I angrily told him, I would
not permit my father to be reflected upon; adding, that his severity to me, however unmerited,
was not a warrant for me to dispense with my duty to him.

He had no pleasure, he said, in urging any thing that could be so construed; for, however well
warranted he was to make such reflections from the provocations they were continually giving
him, he knew how offensive to me any liberties of this sort would be. And yet he must own,
that it was painful to him, who had youth and passions to be allowed for, as well as others,
and who had always valued himself under speaking his mind, to curb himself, under such treatment.
Nevertheless, his consideration for me would make him confine himself, in his observations,
to facts that were too flagrant, and too openly avowed, to be disputed. It could not therefore
justly displease, he would venture to say, if he made this natural inference from the premises,
That if such were my father's behaviour to a wife, who disputed not the imaginary prerogatives
he was so unprecedently fond of asserting, what room had a daughter to hope, that he would
depart from an authority he was so earnest, and so much more concerned, to maintain?--Family-interests
at the same time engaging; an aversion, however causelessly conceived, stimulating my brother's
and sister's resentments and selfish views cooperating; and my banishment from their presence
depriving me of all personal plea or entreaty in my own favour.

How unhappy, my dear, that there is but too much reason for these observations, and for this
inference; made, likewise, with more coolness and respect to my family than one would have
apprehended from a man so much provoked, and of passions so high, and generally thought uncontroulable!

Will you not question me about throbs and glows, if from such instances of a command over his
fiery temper, for my sake, I am ready to infer, that were my friends capable of a reconciliation
with him, he might be affected by arguments apparently calculated for his present and future
good! Nor is it a very bad indication, that he has such moderate notions of that very high
prerogative in husbands, of which we in our family have been accustomed to hear so much.

He represented to me, that my present disgraceful confinement was known to all the world: that
neither my sister nor my brother scrupled to represent me as an obliged and favoured child
in a state of actual rebellion. That, nevertheless, every body who knew me was ready to justify
me for an aversion to a man whom every body thought utterly unworthy of me, and more fit for
my sister: that unhappy as he was, in not having been able to make any greater impression upon
me in his favour, all the world gave me to him. Nor was there but one objection made to him
by his very enemies (his birth, his prospects all very unexceptionable, and the latter splendid);
and that objection, he thanked God, and my example, was in a fair way of being removed for
ever: since he had seen his error, and was heartily sick of the courses he had followed; which,
however, were far less enormous than malice and envy had represented them to be. But of this
he should say the less, as it were much better to justify himself by his actions, than by the
most solemn asseverations and promises. And then, complimenting my person, he assured me (for
that he always loved virtue, although he had not followed its rules as he ought) that he was
still more captivated with the graces of my mind: and would frankly own, that till he had the
honour to know me, he had never met with an inducement sufficient to enable him to overcome
an unhappy kind of prejudice to matrimony; which had made him before impenetrable to the wishes
and recommendations of all his relations.

You see, my dear, he scruples not to speak of himself, as his enemies speak of him. I can't
say, but his openness in these particulars gives a credit to his other professions. I should
easily, I think, detect an hypocrite: and this man particularly, who is said to have allowed
himself in great liberties, were he to pretend to instantaneous lights and convictions--at
this time of life too. Habits, I am sensible, are not so easily changed. You have always joined
with me in remarking, that he will speak his mind with freedom, even to a degree of unpoliteness
sometimes; and that his very treatment of my family is a proof that he cannot make a mean court
to any body for interest sake--What pity, where there are such laudable traces, that they should
have been so mired, and choaked up, as I may say!--We have heard, that the man's head is better
than his heart: But do you really think Mr. Lovelace can have a very bad heart? Why should
not there be something in blood in the human creature, as well as in the ignobler animals?
None of his family are exceptionable--but himself, indeed. The characters of the ladies are
admirable. But I shall incur the imputation I wish to avoid. Yet what a look of censoriousness
does it carry in an unsparing friend, to take one to task for doing that justice, and making
those which one ought without scruple to do, and to make, in the behalf of any other man living?

He then again pressed me to receive a letter of offered protection from Lady Betty. He said,
that people of birth stood a little too much upon punctilio; as people of value also did (but
indeed birth, worthily lived up to, was virtue: virtue, birth; the inducements to a decent
punctilio the same; the origin of both one): [how came this notion from him!] else, Lady Betty
would write to me: but she would be willing to be first apprized that her offer will be well
received--as it would have the appearance of being made against the liking of one part of my
family; and which nothing would induce her to make, but the degree of unworthy persecution
which I actually laboured under, and had reason further to apprehend.

I told him, that, however greatly I thought myself obliged to Lady Betty Lawrance, if this
offer came from herself; yet it was easy to see to what it led. It might look like vanity in
me perhaps to say, that this urgency in him, on this occasion, wore the face of art, in order
to engage me into measures from which I might not easily extricate myself. I said, that I should
not be affected by the splendour of even a royal title. Goodness, I thought, was greatness.
That the excellent characters of the ladies of his family weighed more with me, than the consideration
that they were half-sisters to Lord M. and daughters of an earl: that he would not have found
encouragement from me, had my friends been consenting to his address, if he had only a mere
relative merit to those ladies: since, in that case, the very reasons that made me admire them,
would have been so many objections to their kinsman.

I then assured him, that it was with infinite concern, that I had found myself drawn into an
epistolary correspondence with him; especially since that correspondence had been prohibited:
and the only agreeable use I could think of making of this unexpected and undesired interview,
was, to let him know, that I should from henceforth think myself obliged to discontinue it.
And I hoped, that he would not have the thought of engaging me to carry it on by menacing my
relations.

There was light enough to distinguish, that he looked very grave upon this. He so much valued
my free choice, he said, and my unbiassed favour, (scorning to set himself upon a footing with
Solmes in the compulsory methods used in that man's behalf,) that he should hate himself, were
he capable of a view of intimidating me by so very poor a method. But, nevertheless, there
were two things to be considered: First, that the continual outrages he was treated with; the
spies set over him, one of which he had detected; the indignities all his family were likewise
treated with;--as also, myself; avowedly in malice to him, or he should not presume to take
upon himself to resent for me, without my leave [the artful wretch saw he would have lain open
here, had he not thus guarded]--all these considerations called upon him to shew a proper resentment:
and he would leave it to me to judge, whether it would be reasonable for him, as a man of spirit,
to bear such insults, if it were not for my sake. I would be pleased to consider, in the next
place, whether the situation I was in, (a prisoner in my father's house, and my whole family
determined to compel me to marry a man unworthy of me, and that speedily, and whether I consented
or not,) admitted of delay in the preventive measures he was desirous to put me upon, in the
last resort only. Nor was there a necessity, he said, if I were actually in Lady Betty's protection,
that I should be his, if, afterwards, I should see any thing objectionable in his conduct.

But what would the world conclude would be the end, I demanded, were I, in the last resort,
as he proposed, to throw myself into the protection of his friends, but that it was with such
a view?

And what less did the world think of me now, he asked, than that I was confined that I might
not? You are to consider, Madam, you have not now an option; and to whom is it owing that you
have not; and that you are in the power of those (parents, why should I call them?) who are
determined, that you shall not have an option. All I propose is, that you will embrace such
a protection--but not till you have tried every way, to avoid the necessity for it.

And give me leave to say, proceeded he, that if a correspondence, on which I have founded all
my hopes, is, at this critical conjuncture, to be broken off; and if you are resolved not to
be provided against the worst; it must be plain to me, that you will at last yield to that
worst--worst to me only--it cannot be to you--and then! [and he put his hand clenched to his
forehead] How shall I bear this supposition?--Then will you be that Solmes's!--But, by all
that's sacred, neither he, nor your brother, nor your uncles, shall enjoy their triumph--Perdition
seize my soul, if they shall!

The man's vehemence frightened me: yet, in resentment, I would have left him; but, throwing
himself at my feet again, Leave me not thus--I beseech you, dearest Madam, leave me not thus,
in despair! I kneel not, repenting of what I have vowed in such a case as that I have supposed.
I re-vow it, at your feet!--and so he did. But think not it is by way of menace, or to intimidate
you to favour me. If your heart inclines you [and then he arose] to obey your father (your
brother rather) and to have Solmes; although I shall avenge myself on those who have insulted
me, for their insults to myself and family, yet will I tear out my heart from this bosom (if
possible with my own hands) were it to scruple to give up its ardours to a woman capable of
such a preference.

I told him, that he talked to me in very high language; but he might assure himself that I
never would have Mr. Solmes, (yet that this I said not in favour to him,) and I had declared
as much to my relations, were there not such a man as himself in the world.

Would I declare, that I would still honour him with my correspondence?--He could not bear,
that, hoping to obtain greater instances of my favour, he should forfeit the only one he had
to boast of.

I bid him forbear rashness or resentment to any of my family, and I would, for some time at
least, till I saw what issue my present trials were likely to have, proceed with a correspondence,
which, nevertheless, my heart condemned--

And his spirit him, the impatient creature said, interrupting me, for bearing what he did;
when he considered, that the necessity of it was imposed upon him, not by my will, (for then
he would bear it cheerfully, and a thousand times more,) but by creatures--And there he stopt.

I told him plainly that he might thank himself (whose indifferent character, as to morals,
had given such a handle against him) for all. It was but just, that a man should be spoken
evil of, who set no value upon his reputation.

He offered to vindicate himself. But I told him, I would judge him by his own rule--by his
actions, not by his professions.

Were not his enemies, he said, so powerful, and so determined; and had they not already shewn
their intentions in such high acts of even cruel compulsion; but would leave me to my choice,
or to my desire of living single; he would have been content to undergo a twelvemonth's probation,
or more: but he was confident, that one month would either complete all their purposes, or
render them abortive: and I best knew what hopes I had of my father's receding--he did not
know him, if I had any.

I said, I would try every method, that either my duty or my influence upon any of them should
suggest, before I would put myself into any other protection: and, if nothing else would do,
would resign the envied estate; and that I dared to say would.

He was contented, he said, to abide that issue. He should be far from wishing me to embrace
any other protection, but, as he had frequently said, in the last necessity. But dearest creature,
said he, catching my hand with ardour, and pressing it to his lips, if the yielding up of that
estate will do--resign it--and be mine--and I will corroborate, with all my soul, your resignation!

This was not ungenerously said: But what will not these men say to obtain belief, and a power
over one?

I made many efforts to go; and now it was so dark, that I began to have great apprehensions.
I cannot say from his behaviour: indeed, he has a good deal raised himself in my opinion by
the personal respect, even to reverence, which he paid me during the whole conference: for,
although he flamed out once, upon a supposition that Solmes might succeed, it was upon a supposition
that would excuse passion, if any thing could, you know, in a man pretending to love with fervour;
although it was so levelled, that I could not avoid resenting it.

He recommended himself to my favour at parting, with great earnestness, yet with as great submission;
not offering to condition any thing with me; although he hinted his wishes for another meeting:
which I forbad him ever attempting again in the same place. And I will own to you, from whom
I should be really blamable to conceal any thing, that his arguments (drawn from the disgraceful
treatment I meet with) of what I am to expect, make me begin to apprehend that I shall be under
an obligation to be either the one man's or the other's--and, if so, I fancy I shall not incur
your blame, were I to say which of the two it must be: you have said, which it must not be.
But, O my dear, the single life is by far the most eligible to me: indeed it is. And I hope
yet to be permitted to make that option.

I got back without observation; but the apprehension that I should not, gave me great uneasiness;
and made me begin a letter in a greater flutter than he gave me cause to be in, except at the
first seeing him; for then indeed my spirits failed me; and it was a particular felicity, that,
in such a place, in such a fright, and alone with him, I fainted not away.

I should add, that having reproached him with his behaviour the last Sunday at church, he solemnly
assured me, that it was not what had been represented to me: that he did not expect to see
me there: but hoped to have an opportunity to address himself to my father, and to be permitted
to attend him home. But that the good Dr. Lewen had persuaded him not to attempt speaking to
any of the family, at that time; observing to him the emotions into which his presence had
put every body. He intended no pride, or haughtiness of behaviour, he assured me; and that
the attributing such to him was the effect of that ill-will which he had the mortification
to find insuperable: adding, that when he bowed to my mother, it was a compliment he intended
generally to every one in the pew, as well as to her, whom he sincerely venerated.

If he may be believed, (and I should think he would not have come purposely to defy my family,
yet expect favour from me,) one may see, my dear, the force of hatred, which misrepresents
all things. Yet why should Shorey (except officiously to please her principals) make a report
in his disfavour? He told me, that he would appeal to Dr. Lewen for his justification on this
head; adding, that the whole conversation between the Doctor and him turned upon his desire
to attempt to reconcile himself to us all, in the face of the church; and upon the Doctor's
endeavouring to dissuade him from making such a public overture, till he knew how it would
be accepted. But to what purpose his appeal, when I am debarred from seeing that good man,
or any one who would advise me what to do in my present difficult situation!

I fancy, my dear, however, that there would hardly be a guilty person in the world, were each
suspected or accused person to tell his or her own story, and be allowed any degree of credit.

I have written a very long letter.

To be so particular as you require in subjects of conversation, it is impossible to be short.

I will add to it only the assurance, That I am, and ever will be,

Your affectionate and faithful friend and servant, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

You'll be so good, my dear, as to remember, that the date of your last letter to me was the 9th.

LETTER XXXVII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE. SUNDAY, MARCH 19.

I beg your pardon, my dearest friend, for having given you occasion to remind me of the date
of my last. I was willing to have before me as much of the workings of your wise relations
as possible; being verily persuaded, that one side or the other would have yielded by this
time: and then I should have had some degree of certainty to found my observations upon. And
indeed what can I write that I have not already written?--You know, that I can do nothing but
rave at your stupid persecutors: and that you don't like. I have advised you to resume your
own estate: that you won't do. You cannot bear the thoughts of having their Solmes: and Lovelace
is resolved you shall be his, let who will say to the contrary. I think you must be either
the one man's or the other's. Let us see what their next step will be.

As to Lovelace, while he tells his own story (having also behaved so handsomely on his intrusion
in the wood-house, and intended so well at church) who can say, that the man is in the least
blameworthy?--Wicked people! to combine against so innocent a man!--But, as I said, let us
see what their next step will be, and what course you will take upon it; and then we may be
the more enlightened.

As to your change of style to your uncles, and brother and sister, since they were so fond
of attributing to you a regard for Lovelace, and would not be persuaded to the contrary; and
since you only strengthened their arguments against yourself by denying it; you did but just
as I would have done, in giving way to their suspicions, and trying what that would do--But
if--but if--Pray, my dear, indulge me a little--you yourself think it was necessary to apologize
to me for that change of style to them--and till you will speak out like a friend to her unquestionable
friend, I must tease you a little--let it run therefore; for it will run--

If, then, there be not a reason for this change of style, which you have not thought fit to
give me, be so good as to watch, as I once before advised you, how the cause for it will come
on--Why should it be permitted to steal upon you, and you know nothing of the matter?

When we get a great cold, we are apt to puzzle ourselves to find out when it began, or how
we got it; and when that is accounted for, down we sit contented, and let it have its course;
or, if it be very troublesome, take a sweat, or use other means to get rid of it. So my dear,
before the malady you wot of, yet wot not of, grows so importunate, as that you must be obliged
to sweat it out, let me advise you to mind how it comes on. For I am persuaded, as surely as
that I am now writing to you, that the indiscreet violence of your friends on the one hand,
and the insinuating address of Lovelace on the other, (if the man be not a greater fool than
any body thinks him,) will effectually bring it to this, and do all his work for him.

But let it--if it must be Lovelace or Solmes, the choice cannot admit of debate. Yet if all
be true that is reported, I should prefer almost any of your other lovers to either; unworthy
as they also are. But who can be worthy of a Clarissa?

I wish you are not indeed angry with me for harping so much on one string. I must own, that
I should think myself inexcusable so to do, (the rather, as I am bold enough imagine it a point
out of all doubt from fifty places in your letters, were I to labour the proof,) if you would
ingenuously own--

Own what? you'll say. Why, my Anna Howe, I hope you don't think that I am already in love--!

No, to be sure! How can your Anna Howe have such a thought?--What then shall we call it? You
might have helped me to a phrase--A conditional kind of liking!--that's it.--O my friend! did
I not know how much you despise prudery; and that you are too young, and too lovely, to be
a prude--

But, avoiding such hard names, let me tell you one thing, my dear (which nevertheless I have
told you before); and that is this: that I shall think I have reason to be highly displeased
with you, if, when you write to me, you endeavour to keep from me any secret of your heart.

Let me add, that if you would clearly and explicitly tell me, how far Lovelace has, or has
not, a hold in your affections, I could better advise you what to do, than at present I can.
You, who are so famed for prescience, as I may call it; and than whom no young lady ever had
stronger pretensions to a share of it; have had, no doubt, reasonings in your heart about him,
supposing you were to be one day his: [no doubt but you have had the same in Solmes's case:
whence the ground for the hatred of the one; and for the conditional liking of the other.]
Will you tell me, my dear, what you have thought of Lovelace's best and of his worst?--How
far eligible for the first; how far rejectable for the last?--Then weighing both parts in opposite
scales, we shall see which is likely to preponderate; or rather which does preponderate. Nothing
less than the knowledge of the inmost recesses of your heart, can satisfy my love and my friendship.
Surely, you are not afraid to trust yourself with a secret of this nature: if you are, then
you may the more allowably doubt me. But, I dare say, you will not own either--nor is there,
I hope, cause for either.

Be pleased to observe one thing, my dear, that whenever I have given myself any of those airs
of raillery, which have seemed to make you look about you, (when, likewise, your case may call
for a more serious turn from a sympathizing friend,) it has not been upon those passages which
are written, though, perhaps not intended, with such explicitness [don't be alarmed, my dear!]
as leaves little cause of doubt: but only when you affect reserve; when you give new words
for common things; when you come with your curiosities, with your conditional likings, and
with your PRUDE-encies [mind how I spell the word] in a case that with every other person defies
all prudence--over-acts of treason all these, against the sovereign friendship we have avowed
to each other.

Remember, that you found me out in a moment. You challenged me. I owned directly, that there
was only my pride between the man and me; for I could not endure, I told you, to think of any
fellow living to give me a moment's uneasiness. And then my man, as I have elsewhere said,
was not such a one as yours: so I had reason to impute full as much as to my own inconsideration,
as to his power over me: nay, more: but still more to yours. For you reasoned me out of the
curiosity first; and when the liking was brought to be conditional--why then, you know, I throbbed
no more about him.

O! pray now, as you say, now I have mentioned that my fellow was not such a charming fellow
as yours, let Miss Biddulph, Miss Lloyd, Miss Campion, and me, have your opinion, how far figure
ought to engage us: with a view to your own case, however--mind that--as Mr. Tony says--and
whether at all, if the man be vain of it; since, as you observe in a former, that vanity is
a stop-short pride in such a one, that would make one justly doubt the worthiness of his interior.
You, our pattern, so lovely in feature, so graceful in person, have none of it; and have therefore
with the best grace always held, that it is not excusable even in a woman.

You must know, that this subject was warmly debated among us in our last conversation: and
Miss Lloyd wished me to write to you upon it for your opinion; to which, in every debated case,
we always paid the greatest deference. I hope you will not be so much engrossed by your weighty
cares, as not to have freedom of spirits enough to enter upon the task. You know how much we
all admire your opinion on such topics; which ever produces something new and instructive,
as you handle the subjects. And pray tell us, to what you think it owing, that your man seems
so careful to adorn that self-adorned person of his! yet so manages, that one cannot for one's
heart think him a coxcomb?--Let this question, and the above tasks, divert, and not displease
you, my dear. One subject, though ever so important, could never yet engross your capacious
mind. If they should displease you, you must recollect the many instances of my impertinence
which you have forgiven, and then say, 'This is a mad girl: but yet I love her!--And she is my own'

ANNA HOWE.

LETTER XXXVIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY, MARCH 20.

Your last so sensibly affects me, that I must postpone every other consideration, however weighty,
to reply to it: and this I will do very distinctly, and with all the openness of heart which
our mutual friendship demands.

But let me observe, in the first place, gratefully observe, that if I have in fifty passages
of my letters given you such undoubted proofs of my value for Mr. Lovelace, that you have spared
me for the sake of my explicitness, it is acting by me with a generosity worthy of yourself.

But lives the man, think you, who is so very bad, that he does not give even a doubting mind
reason at one time to be better pleased with him than at another? And when that reason offers,
is it not just to express one's self accordingly? I would do the man who addresses me as much
justice, as if he did not address me: it has such a look of tyranny, it appears so ungenerous,
methinks, in our sex, to use a man worse for his respect to us, (no other cause for disrespect
occurring,) that I would not by any means be that person who should do so.

But, although I may intend no more than justice, it will perhaps be difficult to hinder those
who know the man's views, from construing it as a partial favour: and especially if the eager-eyed
observer has been formerly touched herself, and would triumph that her friend had been no more
able to escape than she. Noble minds, emulative of perfection, (and yet the passion properly
directed, I do not take to be an imperfection neither,) may be allowed a little generous envy,
I think.

If I meant by this a reflection, by way of revenge, it is but a revenge, my dear, in the soft
sense of the word. I love, as I have told you, your pleasantry. Although at the time your reproof
may pain me a little; yet, on recollection, when I find it more of the cautioning friend than
of the satirizing observer, I shall be all gratitude upon it. All the business will be this;
I shall be sensible of the pain in the present letter perhaps; but I shall thank you in the
next, and ever after.

In this way, I hope, my dear, you will account for a little of that sensibility which you find
above, and perhaps still more, as I proceed.--You frequently remind me, by an excellent example,
your own to me, that I must not spare you!

I am not conscious, that I have written any thing of this man, that has not been more in his
dispraise than in his favour. Such is the man, that I think I must have been faulty, and ought
to take myself to account, if I had not. But you think otherwise, I will not put you upon labouring
the proof, as you call it. My conduct must then have a faulty appearance at least, and I will
endeavour to rectify it. But of this I assure you, that whatever interpretation my words were
capable of, I intended not any reserve to you. I wrote my heart at the time: if I had had thought
of disguising it, or been conscious that there was reason for doing so, perhaps I had not given
you the opportunity of remarking upon my curiosity after his relations' esteem for me; nor
upon my conditional liking, and such-like. All I intended by the first, I believe, I honestly
told you at the time. To that letter I therefore refer, whether it make for me, or against
me: and by the other, that I might bear in mind, what it became a person of my sex and character
to be and to do, in such an unhappy situation, where the imputed love is thought an undutiful,
and therefore a criminal passion; and where the supported object of it is a man of faulty morals
too. And I am sure you will excuse my desire of appearing at those times the person I ought
to be; had I no other view in it but to merit the continuance of your good opinion.

But that I may acquit myself of having reserves--O, my dear, I must here break off--!

LETTER XXXIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY, MARCH 12.

This letter will account to you, my dear, for my abrupt breaking off in the answer I was writing
to yours of yesterday; and which, possibly, I shall not be able to finish and send you till
to-morrow or next day; having a great deal to say to the subjects you put to me in it. What
I am now to give you are the particulars of another effort made by my friends, through the
good Mrs. Norton.

It seems they had sent to her yesterday, to be here this day, to take their instructions, and
to try what she could do with me. It would, at least, I suppose they thought, have this effect;
to render me inexcusable with her; or to let her see, that there was no room for the expostulations
she had often wanted to make in my favour to my mother.

The declaration, that my heart was free, afforded them an argument to prove obstinacy and perverseness
upon me; since it could be nothing else that governed me in my opposition to their wills, if
I had no particular esteem for another man. And now, that I have given them reason (in order
to obviate this argument) to suppose that I have a preference to another, they are resolved
to carry their schemes into execution as soon as possible. And in order to this, they sent
for this good woman, for whom they know I have even a filial regard.

She found assembled my father and mother, my brother and sister, my two uncles, and my aunt Hervey.

My brother acquainted her with all that had passed since she was last permitted to see me;
with the contents of my letters avowing my regard for Mr. Lovelace (as they all interpreted
them); with the substance of their answers to them; and with their resolutions.

My mother spoke next; and delivered herself to this effect, as the good woman told me.

After reciting how many times I had been indulged in my refusals of different men, and the
pains she had taken with me, to induce me to oblige my whole family in one instance out of
five or six, and my obstinacy upon it; 'O my good Mrs. Norton, said the dear lady, could you
have thought, that my Clarissa and your Clarissa was capable of so determined an opposition
to the will of parents so indulgent to her? But see what you can do with her. The matter is
gone too far to be receded from on our parts. Her father had concluded every thing with Mr.
Solmes, not doubting her compliance. Such noble settlements, Mrs. Norton, and such advantages
to the whole family!--In short, she has it in her power to lay an obligation upon us all. Mr.
Solmes, knowing she has good principles, and hoping by his patience now, and good treatment
hereafter, to engage her gratitude, and by degrees her love, is willing to overlook all!--'

[Overlook all, my dear! Mr. Solmes to overlook all! There's a word!]

'So, Mrs. Norton, if you are convinced, that it is a child's duty to submit to her parents'
authority, in the most important point as well as in the least, I beg you will try your influence
over her: I have none: her father has none: her uncles neither: although it is her apparent
interest to oblige us all; for, on that condition, her grandfather's estate is not half of
what, living and dying, is purposed to be done for her. If any body can prevail with her, it
is you; and I hope you will heartily enter upon this task.'

The good woman asked, Whether she was permitted to expostulate with them upon the occasion,
before she came up to me?

My arrogant brother told her, she was sent for to expostulate with his sister, and not with
them. And this, Goody Norton [she is always Goody with him!] you may tell her, that the treaty
with Mr. Solmes is concluded: that nothing but her compliance with her duty is wanting; of
consequence, that there is no room for your expostulation, or hers either.

Be assured of this, Mrs. Norton, said my father, in an angry tone, that we will not be baffled
by her. We will not appear like fools in this matter, and as if we have no authority over our
own daughter. We will not, in short, be bullied out of our child by a cursed rake, who had
like to have killed our only son!--And so she had better make a merit of her obedience; for
comply she shall, if I live; independent as she thinks my father's indiscreet bounty has made
her of me, her father. Indeed, since that, she has never been like she was before. An unjust
bequest!--And it is likely to prosper accordingly!--But if she marry that vile rake Lovelace,
I will litigate every shilling with her: tell her so; and that the will may be set aside, and
shall.

My uncles joined, with equal heat.

My brother was violent in his declarations.

My sister put in with vehemence, on the same side.

My aunt Hervey was pleased to say, there was no article so proper for parents to govern in,
as this of marriage: and it was very fit mine should be obliged.

Thus instructed, the good woman came up to me. She told me all that had passed, and was very
earnest with me to comply; and so much justice did she to the task imposed upon her, that I
more than once thought, that her own opinion went with theirs. But when she saw what an immovable
aversion I had to the man, she lamented with me their determined resolution: and then examined
into the sincerity of my declaration, that I would gladly compound with them by living single.
Of this being satisfied, she was so convinced that this offer, which, carried into execution,
would exclude Lovelace effectually, ought to be accepted, that she would go down (although
I told her, it was what I had tendered over-and-over to no purpose) and undertake to be guaranty
for me on that score.

She went accordingly; but soon returned in tears; being used harshly for urging this alternative:--They
had a right to my obedience upon their own terms, they said: my proposal was an artifice, only
to gain time: nothing but marrying Mr. Solmes should do: they had told me so before: they should
not be at rest till it was done; for they knew what an interest Lovelace had in my heart: I
had as good as owned it in my letters to my uncles, and brother and sister, although I had
most disingenuously declared otherwise to my mother. I depended, they said, upon their indulgence,
and my own power over them: they would not have banished me from their presence, if they had
not known that their consideration for me was greater than mine for them. And they would be
obeyed, or I never should be restored to their favour, let the consequence be what it would.

My brother thought fit to tell the good woman, that her whining nonsense did but harden me.
There was a perverseness, he said, in female minds, a tragedy-pride, that would make a romantic
young creature, such a one as me, risque any thing to obtain pity. I was of an age, and a turn
[the insolent said] to be fond of a lover-like distress: and my grief (which she pleaded) would
never break my heart: I should sooner break that of the best and most indulgent of mothers.
He added, that she might once more go up to me: but that, if she prevailed not, he should suspect,
that the man they all hated had found a way to attach her to his interest.

Every body blamed him for this unworthy reflection; which greatly affected the good woman.
But nevertheless he said, and nobody contradicted him, that if she could not prevail upon her
sweet child, [as it seems she had fondly called me,] she had best draw to her own home, and
there tarry till she was sent for; and so leave her sweet child to her father's management.

Sure nobody had ever so insolent, so hard-hearted a brother, as I have! So much resignation
to be expected from me! So much arrogance, and to so good a woman, and of so fine an understanding,
to be allowed in him.

She nevertheless told him, that however she might be ridiculed for speaking of the sweetness
of my disposition, she must take upon herself to say, that there never was a sweeter in the
sex: and that she had ever found, that my mild methods, and gentleness, I might at any time
be prevailed upon, even in points against my own judgment and opinion.

My aunt Hervey hereupon said, It was worth while to consider what Mrs. Norton said: and that
she had sometimes allowed herself to doubt, whether I had been begun with by such methods as
generous tempers are only to be influenced by, in cases where their hearts are supposed to
be opposite to the will of their friends.

She had both my brother and sister upon her for this: who referred to my mother, whether she
had not treated me with an indulgence that had hardly any example?

My mother said, she must own, that no indulgence had been wanting from her: but she must needs
say, and had often said it, that the reception I met with on my return from Miss Howe, and
the manner in which the proposal of Mr. Solmes was made to me, (which was such as left nothing
to my choice,) and before I had an opportunity to converse with him, were not what she had
by any means approved of.

She was silenced, you will guess by whom,--with, My dear!--my dear!--You have ever something
to say, something to palliate, for this rebel of a girl!--Remember her treatment of you, of
me!--Remember, that the wretch, whom we so justly hate, would not dare persist in his purposes,
but for her encouragement of him, and obstinacy to us.--Mrs. Norton, [angrily to her,] go up
to her once more--and if you think gentleness will do, you have a commission to be gentle--if
it will not, never make use of that plea again.

Ay, my good woman, said my mother, try your force with her. My sister Hervey and I will go
up to her, and bring her down in our hands, to receive her father's blessing, and assurances
of every body's love, if she will be prevailed upon: and, in that case, we will all love you
the better for your good offices.

She came up to me, and repeated all these passages with tears. But I told her, that after what
had passed between us, she could not hope to prevail upon me to comply with measures so wholly
my brother's, and so much to my aversion. And then folding me to her maternal bosom, I leave
you, my dearest Miss, said she--I leave you, because I must!--But let me beseech you to do
nothing rashly; nothing unbecoming your character. If all be true that is said, Mr. Lovelace
cannot deserve you. If you can comply, remember it is your duty to comply. They take not, I
own, the right method with so generous a spirit. But remember, that there would not be any
merit in your compliance, if it were not to be against your own liking. Remember also, what
is expected from a character so extraordinary as yours: remember, it is in your power to unite
or disunite your whole family for ever. Although it should at present be disagreeable to you
to be thus compelled, your prudence, I dare say, when you consider the matter seriously, will
enable you to get over all prejudices against the one, and all prepossessions in favour of
the other: and then the obligation you will lay all your family under, will be not only meritorious
in you, with regard to them, but in a few months, very probably, highly satisfactory, as well
as reputable, to yourself.

Consider, my dear Mrs. Norton, said I, only consider, that it is not a small thing that is
insisted upon; not for a short duration; it is for my life: consider too, that all this is
owing to an overbearing brother, who governs every body. Consider how desirous I am to oblige
them, if a single life, and breaking all correspondence with the man they hate, because my
brother hates him, will do it.

I consider every thing, my dearest Miss: and, added to what I have said, do you only consider,
that if, by pursuing your own will, and rejecting theirs, you should be unhappy, you will be
deprived of all that consolation which those have, who have been directed by their parents,
although the event prove not answerable to their wishes.

I must go, repeated she: your brother will say [and she wept] that I harden you by my whining
nonsense. 'Tis indeed hard, that so much regard should be paid to the humours of one child,
and so little to the inclination of another. But let me repeat, that it is your duty to acquiesce,
if you can acquiesce: your father has given your brother's schemes his sanction, and they are
now his. Mr. Lovelace, I doubt, is not a man that will justify your choice so much as he will
their dislike. It is easy to see that your brother has a view in discrediting you with all
your friends, with your uncles in particular: but for that very reason, you should comply,
if possible, in order to disconcert his ungenerous measures. I will pray for you; and that
is all I can do for you. I must now go down, and make a report, that you are resolved never
to have Mr. Solmes--Must I?--Consider, my dear Miss Clary--Must I?

Indeed you must!--But of this I do assure you, that I will do nothing to disgrace the part
you have had in my education. I will bear every thing that shall be short of forcing my hand
into his who never can have any share in my heart. I will try by patient duty, by humility,
to overcome them. But death will I choose, in any shape, rather than that man.

I dread to go down, said she, with so determined an answer: they will have no patience with
me.--But let me leave you with one observation, which I beg of you always to bear in mind:--

'That persons of prudence, and distinguished talents, like yours, seem to be sprinkled through
the world, to give credit, by their example, to religion and virtue. When such persons wilfully
err, how great must be the fault! How ungrateful to that God, who blessed them with such talents!
What a loss likewise to the world! What a wound to virtue!--But this, I hope, will never be
to be said of Miss Clarissa Harlowe!'

I could give her no answer, but by my tears. And I thought, when she went away, the better
half of my heart went with her.

I listened to hear what reception she would meet with below; and found it was just such a one
as she had apprehended.

Will she, or will she not, be Mrs. Solmes? None of your whining circumlocutions, Mrs. Norton!--[You
may guess who said this] Will she, or will she not, comply with her parents' will?

This cut short all she was going to say.

If I must speak so briefly, Miss will sooner die, than have--

Any body but Lovelace! interrupted my brother.--This, Madam, this, Sir, is your meek daughter!
This is Mrs. Norton's sweet child!--Well, Goody, you may return to your own habitation. I am
empowered to forbid you to have any correspondence with this perverse girl for a month to come,
as you value the favour of our whole family, or of any individual of it.

And saying this, uncontradicted by any body, he himself shewed her to the door,--no doubt,
with all that air of cruel insult, which the haughty rich can put on to the unhappy low, who
have not pleased them.

So here, my dear Miss Howe, am I deprived of the advice of one of the most prudent and conscientious
women in the world, were I to have ever so much occasion for it.

I might indeed write (as I presume, under your cover) and receive her answers to what I should
write. But should such a correspondence be charged upon her, I know she would not be guilty
of a falsehood for the world, nor even of an equivocation: and should she own it after this
prohibition, she would forfeit my mother's favour for ever. And in my dangerous fever, some
time ago, I engaged my mother to promise me, that, if I died before I could do any thing for
the good woman, she would set her above want for the rest of her life, should her eyes fail
her, or sickness befall her, and she could not provide for herself, as she now so prettily
does by her fine needle-works.

What measures will they fall upon next?--Will they not recede when they find that it must be
a rooted antipathy, and nothing else, that could make a temper, not naturally inflexible, so
sturdy?

Adieu, my dear. Be you happy!--To know that it is in your power to be so, is all that seems
wanting to make you so.

CL. HARLOWE.

LETTER XL

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE [In continuation of the subject in Letter XXXVIII.]

I will now, though midnight (for I have no sleep in my eyes) resume the subject I was forced
so abruptly to quit, and will obey yours, Miss Lloyd's, Miss Campion's, and Miss Biddulph's
call, with as much temper as my divided thought will admit. The dead stillness of this solemn
hour will, I hope, contribute to calm my disturbed mind.

In order to acquit myself of so heavy a charge as that of having reserves to so dear a friend,
I will acknowledge (and I thought I had over-and-over) that it is owing to my particular situation,
if Mr. Lovelace appears to me in a tolerable light: and I take upon me to say, that had they
opposed to him a man of sense, of virtue, of generosity; one who enjoyed his fortune with credit,
who had a tenderness in his nature for the calamities of others, which would have given a moral
assurance, that he would have been still less wanting in grateful returns to an obliging spirit:--had
they opposed such a man as this to Mr. Lovelace, and been as earnest to have me married, as
now they are, I do not know myself, if they would have had reason to tax me with that invincible
obstinacy which they lay to my charge: and this whatever had been the figure of the man; since
the heart is what we women should judge by in the choice we make, as the best security for
the party's good behaviour in every relation of life.

But, situated as I am, thus persecuted and driven, I own to you, that I have now-and-then had
a little more difficulty than I wished for, in passing by Mr. Lovelace's tolerable qualities,
to keep up my dislike to him for his others.

You say, I must have argued with myself in his favour, and in his disfavour, on a supposition,
that I might possibly be one day his. I own that I have: and thus called upon by my dearest
friend, I will set before you both parts of the argument.

And first, what occurred to me in his favour.

At his introduction into our family, his negative virtues were insisted upon:--He was no gamester;
no horse-racer; no fox-hunter; no drinker: my poor aunt Hervey had, in confidence, given us
to apprehend much disagreeable evil (especially to a wife of the least delicacy) from a wine-lover:
and common sense instructed us, that sobriety in a man is no small point to be secured, when
so many mischiefs happen daily from excess. I remember, that my sister made the most of this
favourable circumstance in his character while she had any hopes of him.

He was never thought to be a niggard; not even ungenerous: nor when his conduct came to be
inquired into, an extravagant, a squanderer: his pride [so far was it a laudable pride] secured
him from that. Then he was ever ready to own his errors. He was no jester upon sacred things:
poor Mr. Wyerley's fault; who seemed to think there was wit in saying bold things, which would
shock a serious mind. His conversation with us was always unexceptionable, even chastely so;
which, be his actions what they would, shewed him capable of being influenced by decent company;
and that he might probably therefore be a led man, rather than a leader, in other company.
And one late instance, so late as last Saturday evening, has raised him not a little in my
opinion, with regard to this point of good (and at the same time, of manly) behaviour.

As to the advantage of birth, that is of his side, above any man who has been found out for
me. If we may judge by that expression of his, which you were pleased with at the time; 'That
upon true quality, and hereditary distinction, if good sense were not wanting, humour sat as
easy as his glove;' that, with as familiar an air, was his familiar expression; 'while none
but the prosperous upstart, MUSHROOMED into rank, (another of his peculiars,) was arrogantly
proud of it.'--If, I say, we may judge of him by this, we shall conclude in his favour, that
he knows what sort of behaviour is to be expected from persons of birth, whether he act up
to it or not. Conviction is half way to amendment.

His fortunes in possession are handsome; in expectation, splendid: so nothing need be said
on that subject.

But it is impossible, say some, that he should make a tender or kind husband. Those who are
for imposing upon me such a man as Mr. Solmes, and by methods so violent, are not entitled
to make this objection. But now, on this subject, let me tell you how I have argued with myself--for
still you must remember, that I am upon the extenuating part of his character.

A great deal of the treatment a wife may expect from him, will possibly depend upon herself.
Perhaps she must practise as well as promise obedience, to a man so little used to controul;
and must be careful to oblige. And what husband expects not this?--The more perhaps if he had
not reason to assure himself of the preferable love of his wife before she became such. And
how much easier and pleasanter to obey the man of her choice, if he should be even more unreasonable
sometimes, than one she would not have had, could she have avoided it? Then, I think, as the
men were the framers of the matrimonial office, and made obedience a part of the woman's vow,
she ought not, even in policy, to shew him, that she can break through her part of the contract,
(however lightly she may think of the instance,) lest he should take it into his head (himself
is judge) to think as lightly of other points, which she may hold more important--but, indeed,
no point so solemnly vowed can be slight.

Thus principled, and acting accordingly, what a wretch must that husband be, who could treat
such a wife brutally!--Will Lovelace's wife be the only person to whom he will not pay the
grateful debt of civility and good manners? He is allowed to be brave: Who ever knew a brave
man, if a brave man of sense, an universally base man? And how much the gentleness of our sex,
and the manner of our training up and education, make us need the protection of the brave,
and the countenance of the generous, let the general approbation, which we are all so naturally
inclined to give to men of that character, testify.

At worst, will he confine me prisoner to my chamber? Will he deny me the visits of my dearest
friend, and forbid me to correspond with her? Will he take from me the mistressly management,
which I had not faultily discharged? Will he set a servant over me, with license to insult
me? Will he, as he has not a sister, permit his cousins Montague, or would either of those
ladies accept of a permission, to insult and tyrannize over me?--It cannot be.--Why then, think
I often, do you tempt me, O my cruel friends, to try the difference?

And then has the secret pleasure intruded itself, to be able to reclaim such a man to the paths
of virtue and honour: to be a secondary means, if I were to be his, of saving him, and preventing
the mischiefs so enterprising a creature might otherwise be guilty of, if he be such a one.

When I have thought of him in these lights, (and that as a man of sense he will sooner see
his errors, than another,) I own to you, that I have had some difficulty to avoid taking the
path they so violently endeavour to make me shun: and all that command of my passions which
has been attributed to me as my greatest praise, and, in so young a creature, as my distinction,
has hardly been sufficient for me.

And let me add, that the favour of his relations (all but himself unexceptionable) has made
a good deal of additional weight, thrown in the same scale.

But now, in his disfavour. When I have reflected upon the prohibition of my parents; the giddy
appearance, disgraceful to our sex, that such a preference would have: that there is no manner
of likelihood, enflamed by the rencounter, and upheld by art and ambition on my brother's side,
that ever the animosity will be got over: that I must therefore be at perpetual variance with
all my own family: that I must go to him, and to his, as an obliged and half-fortuned person:
that his aversion to them all is as strong as theirs to him: that his whole family are hated
for his sake; they hating ours in return: that he has a very immoral character as to women:
that knowing this, it is a high degree of impurity to think of joining in wedlock with such
a man: that he is young, unbroken, his passions unsubdued: that he is violent in his temper,
yet artful; I am afraid vindictive too: that such a husband might unsettle me in all my own
principles, and hazard my future hopes: that his own relations, two excellent aunts, and an
uncle, from whom he has such large expectations, have no influence upon him: that what tolerable
qualities he has, are founded more in pride than in virtue: that allowing, as he does, the
excellency of moral precepts, and believing the doctrine of future rewards and punishments,
he can live as if he despised the one, and defied the other: the probability that the taint
arising from such free principles, may go down into the manners of posterity: that I knowing
these things, and the importance of them, should be more inexcusable than one who knows them
not; since an error against judgment is worse, infinitely worse, than an error in judgment.
Reflecting upon these things, I cannot help conjuring you, my dear, to pray with me, and to
pray for me, that I may not be pushed upon such indiscreet measures, as will render me inexcusable
to myself: for that is the test, after all. The world's opinion ought to be but a secondary
consideration.

I have said in his praise, that he is extremely ready to own his errors: but I have sometimes
made a great drawback upon this article, in his disfavour; having been ready to apprehend,
that this ingenuousness may possibly be attributable to two causes, neither of them, by any
means, creditable to him. The one, that his vices are so much his masters, that he attempts
not to conquer them; the other, that he may think it policy, to give up one half of his character
to save the other, when the whole may be blamable: by this means, silencing by acknowledgment
the objections he cannot answer; which may give him the praise of ingenuousness, when he can
obtain no other, and when the challenged proof might bring out, upon discussion, other evils.
These, you will allow, are severe constructions; but every thing his enemies say of him cannot
be false.

I will proceed by-and-by.

***

Sometimes we have both thought him one of the most undesigning merely witty men we ever knew;
at other times one of the deepest creatures we ever conversed with. So that when in one visit
we have imagined we fathomed him, in the next he has made us ready to give him up as impenetrable.
This impenetrableness, my dear, is to be put among the shades in his character. Yet, upon the
whole, you have been so far of his party, that you have contested that his principal fault
is over-frankness, and too much regardlessness of appearances, and that he is too giddy to
be very artful: you would have it, that at the time he says any thing good, he means what he
speaks; that his variableness and levity are constitutional, owing to sound health, and to
a soul and body [that was your observation] fitted for and pleased with each other. And hence
you concluded, that could this consentaneousness [as you call it] of corporal and animal faculties
be pointed by discretion; that is to say, could his vivacity be confined within the pale of
but moral obligations, he would be far from being rejectable as a companion for life.

But I used then to say, and I still am of opinion, that he wants a heart: and if he does, he
wants every thing. A wrong head may be convinced, may have a right turn given it: but who is
able to give a heart, if a heart be wanting? Divine Grace, working a miracle, or next to a
miracle, can only change a bad heart. Should not one fly the man who is but suspected of such
a one? What, O what, do parents do, when they endeavour to force a child's inclination, but
make her think better than otherwise she would think of a man obnoxious to themselves, and
perhaps whose character will not stand examination?

I have said, that I think Mr. Lovelace a vindictive man: upon my word, I have sometimes doubted,
whether his perseverance in his addresses to me has not been the more obstinate, since he has
found himself so disagreeable to my friends. From that time I verily think he has been the
more fervent in them; yet courts them not, but sets them at defiance. For this indeed he pleads
disinterestedness [I am sure he cannot politeness]; and the more plausibly, as he is apprized
of the ability they have to make it worth his while to court them. 'Tis true he has declared,
and with too much reason, (or there would be no bearing him,) that the lowest submissions on
his part would not be accepted; and to oblige me, has offered to seek a reconciliation with
them, if I would give him hope of success.

As to his behaviour at church, the Sunday before last, I lay no stress upon that, because I
doubt there was too much outward pride in his intentional humility, or Shorey, who is not his
enemy, could not have mistaken it.

I do not think him so deeply learned in human nature, or in ethics, as some have thought him.
Don't you remember how he stared at the following trite observations, which every moralist
could have furnished him with? Complaining as he did, in a half-menacing strain, of the obloquies
raised against him--'That if he were innocent, he should despise the obloquy: if not, revenge
would not wipe off his guilt.' 'That nobody ever thought of turning a sword into a sponge!'
'That it was in his own power by reformation of an error laid to his charge by an enemy, to
make that enemy one of his best friends; and (which was the noblest revenge in the world) against
his will; since an enemy would not wish him to be without the faults he taxed him with.'

But the intention, he said, was the wound.

How so, I asked him, when that cannot wound without the application? 'That the adversary only
held the sword: he himself pointed it to his breast:--And why should he mortally resent that
malice, which he might be the better for as long as he lived?'--What could be the reading he
has been said to be master of, to wonder, as he did, at these observations?

But, indeed, he must take pleasure in revenge; and yet holds others to be inexcusable for the
same fault. He is not, however, the only one who can see how truly blamable those errors are
in another, which they hardly think such in themselves.

From these considerations, from these over-balances, it was, that I said, in a former, that
I would not be in love with this man for the world: and it was going further than prudence
would warrant, when I was for compounding with you, by the words conditional liking, which
you so humourously rally.

Well but, methinks you say, what is all this to the purpose? This is still but reasoning: but,
if you are in love, you are: and love, like the vapours, is the deeper rooted for having no
sufficient cause assignable for its hold. And so you call upon me again to have no reserves,
and so-forth.

Why then, my dear, if you will have it, I think, that, with all his preponderating faults,
I like him better than I ever thought I should like him; and, those faults considered, better
perhaps than I ought to like him. And I believe, it is possible for the persecution I labour
under to induce me to like him still more--especially while I can recollect to his advantage
our last interview, and as every day produces stronger instances of tyranny, I will call it,
on the other side.--In a word, I will frankly own (since you cannot think any thing I say too
explicit) that were he now but a moral man, I would prefer him to all the men I ever saw.

So that this is but conditional liking still, you'll say: nor, I hope, is it more. I never
was in love as it is called; and whether this be it, or not, I must submit to you. But will
venture to think it, if it be, no such mighty monarch, no such unconquerable power, as I have
heard it represented; and it must have met with greater encouragement than I think I have given
it, to be absolutely unconquerable--since I am persuaded, that I could yet, without a throb,
most willingly give up the one man to get rid of the other.

But now to be a little more serious with you: if, my dear, my particularly-unhappy situation
had driven (or led me, if you please) into a liking of the man; and if that liking had, in
your opinion, inclined me to love him, should you, whose mind is susceptible of the most friendly
impressions, who have such high notions of the delicacy which ought to be observed by our sex
in these matters, and who actually do enter so deeply into the distresses of one you love--should
you have pushed so far that unhappy friend on so very nice a subject?--Especially, when I aimed
not (as you could prove by fifty instances, it seems) to guard against being found out. Had
you rallied me by word of mouth in the manner you do, it might have been more in character;
especially, if your friend's distresses had been surmounted, and if she had affected prudish
airs in revolving the subject: but to sit down to write it, as methinks I see you, with a gladdened
eye, and with all the archness of exultation--indeed, my dear, (and I take notice of it, rather
for the sake of your own generosity, than for my sake, for, as I have said, I love your raillery,)
it is not so very pretty; the delicacy of the subject, and the delicacy of your own mind, considered.

I lay down my pen here, that you may consider of it a little, if you please.

***

I resume, to give you my opinion of the force which figure or person ought to have upon our
sex: and this I shall do both generally as to the other sex, and particularly as to this man;
whence you will be able to collect how far my friends are in the right, or in the wrong, when
they attribute a good deal of prejudice in favour of one man, and in disfavour of the other,
on the score of figure. But, first, let me observe, that they see abundant reason, on comparing
Mr. Lovelace and Mr. Solmes together, to believe that this may be a consideration with me;
and therefore they believe it is.

There is certainly something very plausible and attractive, as well as creditable to a woman's
choice, in figure. It gives a favourable impression at first sight, in which we wish to be
confirmed: and if, upon further acquaintance, we find reason to be so, we are pleased with
our judgment, and like the person the better, for having given us cause to compliment our own
sagacity, in our first-sighted impressions. But, nevertheless, it has been generally a rule
with me, to suspect a fine figure, both in man and woman; and I have had a good deal of reason
to approve my rule;--with regard to men especially, who ought to value themselves rather upon
their intellectual than personal qualities. For, as to our sex, if a fine woman should be led
by the opinion of the world, to be vain and conceited upon her form and features; and that
to such a degree, as to have neglected the more material and more durable recommendations,
the world will be ready to excuse her; since a pretty fool, in all she says, and in all she
does, will please, we know not why.

But who would grudge this pretty fool her short day! Since, with her summer's sun, when her
butterfly flutters are over, and the winter of age and furrows arrives, she will feel the just
effects of having neglected to cultivate her better faculties: for then, lie another Helen,
she will be unable to bear the reflection even of her own glass, and being sunk into the insignificance
of a mere old woman, she will be entitled to the contempts which follow that character. While
the discreet matron, who carries up [we will not, in such a one's case, say down] into advanced
life, the ever-amiable character of virtuous prudence and useful experience, finds solid veneration
take place of airy admiration, and more than supply the want of it.

But for a man to be vain of his person, how effeminate! If such a one happens to have genius,
it seldom strikes deep into intellectual subjects. His outside usually runs away with him.
To adorn, and perhaps, intending to adorn, to render ridiculous that person, takes up all his
attention. All he does is personal; that is to say, for himself: all he admires, is himself:
and in spite of the correction of the stage, which so often and so justly exposes a coxcomb,
he usually dwindles down, and sinks into that character; and, of consequence, becomes the scorn
of one sex, and the jest of the other.

This is generally the case of your fine figures of men, and of those who value themselves on
dress and outward appearance: whence it is, that I repeat, that mere person in a man is a despicable
consideration. But if a man, besides figure, has learning, and such talents as would have distinguished
him, whatever were his form, then indeed person is an addition: and if he has not run too egregiously
into self-admiration, and if he has preserved his morals, he is truly a valuable being.

Mr. Lovelace has certainly taste; and, as far as I am able to determine, he has judgment in
most of the politer arts. But although he has a humourous way of carrying it off, yet one may
see that he values himself not a little, both on his person and his parts, and even upon his
dress; and yet he has so happy an ease in the latter, that it seems to be the least part of
his study. And as to the former, I should hold myself inexcusable, if I were to add to his
vanity by shewing the least regard for what is too evidently so much his.

And now, my dear, let me ask you, Have I come up to your expectation? If I have not, when my
mind is more at ease, I will endeavour to please you better. For, methinks, my sentences drag,
my style creeps, my imagination is sunk, my spirits serve me not, only to tell you, that whether
I have more or less, I am wholly devoted to the commands of my dear Miss Howe.

P.S. The insolent Betty Barnes has just now fired me anew, by reporting to me the following
expressions of the hideous creature, Solmes--'That he is sure of the coy girl; and that with
little labour to himself. That be I ever so averse to him beforehand, he can depend upon my
principles; and it will be a pleasure to him to see by what pretty degrees I shall come to.'
[Horrid wretch!] 'That it was Sir Oliver's observation, who knew the world perfectly well,
that fear was a better security than love, for a woman's good behaviour to her husband; although,
for his part, to such a fine creature [truly] he would try what love would do, for a few weeks
at least; being unwilling to believe what the old knight used to aver, that fondness spoils
more wives than it makes good.'

What think you, my dear, of such a wretch as this! tutored, too, by that old surly misogynist,
as he was deemed, Sir Oliver?--

LETTER XLI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY, MARCH 21.

How willingly would my dear mother shew kindness to me, were she permitted! None of this persecution
should I labour under, I am sure, if that regard were paid to her prudence and fine understanding,
which they so well deserve. Whether owing to her, or to my aunt, or to both, that a new trial
was to be made upon me, I cannot tell, but this morning her Shorey delivered into my hand the
following condescending letter.

MY DEAR GIRL,

For so I must still call you; since dear you may be to me, in every sense of the word--we have
taken into particular consideration some hints that fell yesterday from your good Norton, as
if we had not, at Mr. Solmes's first application, treated you with that condescension, wherewith
we have in all other instances treated you. If it even had been so, my dear, you were not excusable
to be wanting in your part, and to set yourself to oppose your father's will in a point which
he had entered too far, to recede with honour. But all yet may be well. On your single will,
my child, depends all our happiness.

Your father permits me to tell you, that if you now at last comply with his expectations, all
past disobligations shall be buried in oblivion, as if they had never been: but withal, that
this is the last time that that grace will be offered you.

I hinted to you, you must remember,* that patterns of the richest silks were sent for. They
are come. And as they are come, your father, to shew how much he is determined, will have me
send them up to you. I could have wished they might not have accompanied this letter, but there
is not great matter in that. I must tell you, that your delicacy is not quite so much regarded
as I had once thought it deserved to be.

     * See Letter XX.

These are the newest, as well as richest, that we could procure; answerable to our situation
in the world; answerable to the fortune, additional to your grandfather's estate, designed
you; and to the noble settlements agreed upon.

Your father intends you six suits (three of them dressed suits) at his own expense. You have
an entire new suit; and one besides, which I think you never wore but twice. As the new suit
is rich, if you choose to make that one of the six, your father will present you with an hundred
guineas in lieu.

Mr. Solmes intends to present you with a set of jewels. As you have your grandmother's and
your own, if you choose to have the former new set, and to make them serve, his present will
be made in money; a very round sum--which will be given in full property to yourself; besides
a fine annual allowance for pin-money, as it is called. So that your objection against the
spirit of a man you think worse of than it deserves, will have no weight; but you will be more
independent than a wife of less discretion than we attribute to you, perhaps ought to be. You
know full well, that I, who first and last brought a still larger fortune into the family than
you will carry to Mr. Solmes, had not a provision made me of near this that we have made for
you.--Where people marry to their liking, terms are the least things stood upon--yet should
I be sorry if you cannot (to oblige us all) overcome a dislike.

Wonder not, Clary, that I write to you thus plainly and freely upon this subject. Your behaviour
hitherto has been such, that we have had no opportunity of entering minutely into the subject
with you. Yet, after all that has passed between you and me in conversation, and between you
and your uncles by letter, you have no room to doubt what is to be the consequence.--Either,
child, we must give up our authority, or you your humour. You cannot expect the one. We have
all the reason in the world to expect the other. You know I have told you more than once, that
you must resolve to have Mr. Solmes, or never to be looked upon as our child.

The draught of the settlement you may see whenever you will. We think there can be no room
for objection to any of the articles. There is still more in them in our family's favour, than
was stipulated at first, when your aunt talked of them to you. More so, indeed, than we could
have asked. If, upon perusal of them, you think any alteration necessary, it shall be made.--Do,
my dear girl, send to me within this day or two, or rather ask me, for the perusal of them.

As a certain person's appearance at church so lately, and what he gives out every where, makes
us extremely uneasy, and as that uneasiness will continue while you are single, you must not
wonder that a short day is intended. This day fortnight we design it to be, if you have no
objection to make that I shall approve of. But if you determine as we would have you, and signify
it to us, we shall not stand with you for a week or so.

Your sightlines of person may perhaps make some think this alliance disparaging. But I hope
you will not put such a personal value upon yourself: if you do, it will indeed be the less
wonder that person should weigh with you (however weak the consideration!) in another man.

Thus we parents, in justice, ought to judge: that our two daughters are equally dear and valuable
to us: if so, why should Clarissa think that a disparagement, which Arabella would not (nor
we for her) have thought any, had the address been made to her?--You will know what I mean
by this, without my explaining myself farther.

Signify to us, now, therefore, your compliance with our wishes. And then there is an end of
your confinement. An act of oblivion, as I may call it, shall pass upon all your former refractoriness:
and you will once more make us happy in you, and in one another. You may, in this case, directly
come down to your father and me, in his study; where we will give you our opinions of the patterns,
with our hearty forgiveness and blessings.

Come, be a good child, as you used to be, my Clarissa. I have (notwithstanding your past behaviour,
and the hopelessness which some have expressed in your compliance) undertaken this one time
more for you. Discredit not my hopes, my dear girl. I have promised never more to interfere
between your father and you, if this my most earnest application succeed not. I expect you
down, love. Your father expects you down. But be sure don't let him see any thing uncheerful
in your compliance. If you come, I will clasp you to my fond heart, with as much pleasure as
ever I pressed you to it in my whole life. You don't know what I have suffered within these
few weeks past; nor ever will be able to guess, till you come to be in my situation; which
is that of a fond and indulgent mother, praying night and day, and struggling to preserve,
against the attempts of more ungovernable spirits, the peace and union of her family.

But you know the terms. Come not near us, if you have resolve to be undutiful: but this, after
what I have written, I hope you cannot be.

If you come directly, and, as I have said, cheerfully, as if your heart were in your duty,
(and you told me it was free, you know,) I shall then, as I said, give you the most tender
proofs how much I am

Your truly affectionate Mother.

***

Think for me, my dearest friend, how I must be affected by this letter; the contents of it
is so surprisingly terrifying, yet so sweetly urged!--O why, cried I to myself, am I obliged
to undergo this severe conflict between a command that I cannot obey, and language so condescendingly
moving!--Could I have been sure of being struck dead at the alter before the ceremony had given
the man I hate a title to my vows, I think I could have submitted to having been led to it.
But to think of living with and living for a man one abhors, what a sad thing is that!

And then, how could the glare of habit and ornament be supposed any inducement to one, who
has always held, that the principal view of a good wife in the adorning of her person, ought
to be, to preserve the affection of her husband, and to do credit to his choice; and that she
should be even fearful of attracting the eyes of others?--In this view, must not the very richness
of the patterns add to my disgusts?--Great encouragement, indeed, to think of adorning one's
self to be the wife of Mr. Solmes!

Upon the whole, it was not possible for me to go down upon the prescribed condition. Do you
think it was?--And to write, if my letter would have been read, what could I write that would
be admitted, and after what I had written and said to so little effect?

I walked backward and forward. I threw down with disdain the patterns. Now to my closet retired
I; then quitting it, threw myself upon the settee; then upon this chair, then upon that; then
into one window, then into another--I knew not what to do!--And while I was in this suspense,
having again taken up the letter to re-peruse it, Betty came in, reminding me, by order, that
my papa and mamma waited for me in my father's study.

Tell my mamma, said I, that I beg the favour of seeing her here for one moment, or to permit
me to attend her any where by herself.

I listened at the stairs-head--You see, my dear, how it is, cried my father, very angrily:
all your condescension (as your indulgence heretofore) is thrown away. You blame your son's
violence, as you call it [I had some pleasure in hearing this]; but nothing else will do with
her. You shall not see her alone. Is my presence an exception to the bold creature?

Tell her, said my mother to Betty, she knows upon what terms she may come down to us. Nor will
I see her upon any other.

The maid brought me this answer. I had recourse to my pen and ink; but I trembled so, that
I could not write, nor knew what to say, had I steadier fingers. At last Betty brought me these
lines from my father.

UNDUTIFUL AND PERVERSE CLARISSA,

No condescension, I see, will move you. Your mother shall not see you; nor will I. Prepare
however to obey. You know our pleasure. Your uncle Antony, your brother, and your sister, and
your favourite Mrs. Norton, shall see the ceremony performed privately at your uncle's chapel.
And when Mr. Solmes can introduce you to us, in the temper we wish to behold you in, we may
perhaps forgive his wife, although we never can, in any other character, our perverse daughter.
As it will be so privately performed, clothes and equipage may be provided for afterwards.
So prepare to go to your uncle's for an early day in next week. We will not see you till all
is over: and we will have it over the sooner, in order to shorten the time of your deserved
confinement, and our own trouble in contending with such a rebel, as you have been of late.
I will hear no pleas, I will receive no letter, nor expostulation. Nor shall you hear from
me any more till you have changed your name to my liking. This from

Your incensed Father.

If this resolution be adhered to, then will my father never see me more!--For I will never
be the wife of that Solmes--I will die first--!

TUESDAY EVENING.

He, this Solmes, came hither soon after I had received my father's letter. He sent up to beg
leave to wait upon me--I wonder at his assurance--!

I said to Betty, who brought me this message, let him restore an unhappy creature to her father
and mother, and then I may hear what he has to say. But, if my friends will not see me on his
account, I will not see him upon his own.

I hope, Miss, said Betty, you will not send me down with this answer. He is with you papa and
mamma.

I am driven to despair, said I. I cannot be used worse. I will not see him.

Down she went with my answer. She pretended, it seems, to be loth to repeat it: so was commanded
out of her affected reserves, and gave it in its full force.

O how I heard my father storm!

They were altogether, it seems, in his study. My brother was for having me turned out of the
house that moment, to Lovelace, and my evil destiny. My mother was pleased to put in a gentle
word for me: I know not what it was: but thus she was answered--My dear, this is the most provoking
thing in the world in a woman of your good sense!--To love a rebel, as well as if she were
dutiful. What encouragement for duty is this?--Have I not loved her as well as ever you did?
And why am I changed! Would to the Lord, your sex knew how to distinguish! It is plain, that
she relies upon her power over you. The fond mother ever made a hardened child!

She was pleased, however, to blame Betty, as the wench owned, for giving my answer its full
force. But my father praised her for it.

The wench says, that he would have come up in his wrath, at my refusing to see Mr. Solmes,
had not my brother and sister prevailed upon him to the contrary.

I wish he had!--And, were it not for his own sake, that he had killed me!

Mr. Solmes condescended [I am mightily obliged to him truly!] to plead for me.

They are all in tumults! How it will end, I know not--I am quite weary of life--So happy, till
within these few weeks!--So miserable now!

Well, indeed, might my mother say, that I should have severe trials.*

* See Letter XXV.

P.S. The idiot [such a one am I treated like!] is begged, as I may say, by my brother and sister.
They have desired, that I may be consigned over entirely to their management. If it be granted,
[it is granted, on my father's part, I understand, but not yet on my mother's,] what cruelty
may I not expect from their envy, jealousy, and ill-will!--I shall soon see, by its effects,
if I am to be so consigned. This is a written intimation privately dropt in my wood-house walk,
by my cousin Dolly Hervey. The dear girl longs to see me, she tells me: but is forbidden till
she see me as Mrs. Solmes, or as consenting to be his. I will take example by their perseverance!--Indeed
I will--!

LETTER XLII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE

An angry dialogue, a scolding-bout rather, has passed between my sister and me. Did you think
I could scold, my dear?

She was sent up to me, upon my refusal to see Mr. Solmes--let loose upon me, I think!--No intention
on their parts to conciliate! It seems evident that I am given up to my brother and her, by
general consent.

I will do justice to every thing she said against me, which carried any force with it. As I
ask for your approbation or disapprobation of my conduct, upon the facts I lay before you,
I should think it the sign of a very bad cause, if I endeavoured to mislead my judge.

She began with representing to me the danger I had been in, had my father come up, as he would
have done had he not been hindered--by Mr. Solmes, among the rest. She reflected upon my Norton,
as if she encouraged me in my perverseness. She ridiculed me for my supposed esteem for Mr.
Lovelace--was surprised that the witty, the prudent, nay, the dutiful and pi--ous [so she sneeringly
pronounced the word] Clarissa Harlowe, should be so strangely fond of a profligate man, that
her parents were forced to lock her up, in order to hinder her from running into his arms.
'Let me ask you, my dear, said she, how you now keep your account of the disposition of your
time? How many hours in the twenty-four do you devote to your needle? How many to your prayers?
How many to letter-writing? And how many to love?--I doubt, I doubt, my little dear, was her
arch expression, the latter article is like Aaron's rod, and swallows up the rest!--Tell me;
is it not so?'

To these I answered, That it was a double mortification to me to owe my safety from the effects
of my father's indignation to a man I could never thank for any thing. I vindicated the good
Mrs. Norton with a warmth that was due to her merit. With equal warmth I resented her reflections
upon me on Mr. Lovelace's account. As to the disposition of my time in the twenty-four hours,
I told her it would better have become her to pity a sister in distress, than to exult over
her--especially, when I could too justly attribute to the disposition of some of her wakeful
hours no small part of that distress.

She raved extremely at this last hint: but reminded me of the gentle treatment of all my friends,
my mother's in particular, before it came to this. She said, that I had discovered a spirit
they never had expected: that, if they had thought me such a championess, they would hardly
have ventured to engage with me: but that now, the short and the long of it was, that the matter
had gone too far to be given up: that it was become a contention between duty and willfulness;
whether a parent's authority were to yield to a daughter's obstinacy, or the contrary: that
I must therefore bend or break, that was all, child.

I told her, that I wished the subject were of such a nature, that I could return her pleasantry
with equal lightness of heart: but that, if Mr. Solmes had such merit in every body's eyes,
in hers, particularly, why might he not be a brother to me, rather than a husband?

O child, says she, methinks you are as pleasant to the full as I am: I begin to have some hopes
of you now. But do you think I will rob my sister of her humble servant? Had he first addressed
himself to me, proceeded she, something might have been said: but to take my younger sister's
refusal! No, no, child; it is not come to that neither! Besides, that would be to leave the
door open in your heart for you know who, child; and we would fain bar him out, if possible.
In short [and then she changed both her tone and her looks] had I been as forward as somebody,
to throw myself into the arms of one of the greatest profligates in England, who had endeavoured
to support his claim to me through the blood of my brother, then might all my family join together
to save me from such a wretch, and to marry me as fast as they could, to some worthy man, who
might opportunely offer himself. And now, Clary, all's out, and make the most of it.

Did not this deserve a severe return? Do, say it did, to justify my reply.--Alas! for my poor
sister! said I--The man was not always so great a profligate. How true is the observation,
That unrequited love turns to deepest hate!

I thought she would beat me. But I proceeded--I have heard often of my brother's danger, and
my brother's murderer. When so little ceremony is made with me, why should I not speak out?--Did
he not seek to kill the other, if he could have done it? Would my brother have given Lovelace
his life, had it been in his power?--The aggressor should not complain.--And, as to opportune
offers, would to Heaven some one had offered opportunely to somebody! It is not my fault, Bella,
the opportune gentleman don't come!

Could you, my dear, have shewn more spirit? I expected to feel the weight of her hand. She
did come up to me, with it held up: then, speechless with passion, ran half way down the stairs,
and came up again.

When she could speak--God give me patience with you!

Amen, said I: but you see, Bella, how ill you bear the retort you provoke. Will you forgive
me; and let me find a sister in you, as I am sorry, if you had reason to think me unsisterly
in what I have said?

Then did she pour upon me, with greater violence; considering my gentleness as a triumph of
temper over her. She was resolved, she said, to let every body know how I took the wicked Lovelace's
part against my brother.

I wished, I told her, I could make the plea for myself, which she might for herself; to wit,
that my anger was more inexcusable than my judgment. But I presumed she had some other view
in coming to me, than she had hitherto acquainted me with. Let me, said I, but know (after
all that has passed) if you have any thing to propose that I can comply with; any thing that
can make my only sister once more my friend?

I had before, upon hearing her ridiculing me on my supposed character of meekness, said, that,
although I wished to be thought meek, I would not be abject; although humble not mean: and
here, in a sneering way, she cautioned me on that head.

I replied, that her pleasantry was much more agreeable than her anger. But I wished she would
let me know the end of a visit that had hitherto (between us) been so unsisterly.

She desired to be informed, in the name of every body, was her word, what I was determined
upon? And whether to comply or not?--One word for all: My friends were not to have patience
with so perverse a creature for ever.

This then I told her I would do: Absolutely break with the man they were all so determined
against: upon condition, however, that neither Mr. Solmes, nor any other, were urged upon me
with the force of a command.

And what was this, more than I had offered before? What, but ringing my changes upon the same
bells, and neither receding nor advancing one tittle?

If I knew what other proposals I could make, I told her, that would be acceptable to them all,
and free me from the address of a man so disagreeable to me, I would make them. I had indeed
before offered, never to marry without my father's consent--

She interrupted me, That was because I depended upon my whining tricks to bring my father and
mother to what I pleased.

A poor dependence! I said:--She knew those who would make that dependence vain--

And I should have brought them to my own beck, very probably, and my uncle Harlowe too, as
also my aunt Hervey, had I not been forbidden from their sight, and thereby hindered from playing
my pug's tricks before them.

At least, Bella, said I, you have hinted to me to whom I am obliged, that my father and mother,
and every body else, treat me thus harshly. But surely you make them all very weak. Indifferent
persons, judging of us two from what you say, would either think me a very artful creature,
or you a very spiteful one--

You are indeed a very artful one, for that matter, interrupted she in a passion: one of the
artfullest I ever knew! And then followed an accusation so low! so unsisterly!--That I half-bewitched
people by my insinuating address: that nobody could be valued or respected, but must stand
like ciphers wherever I came. How often, said she, have I and my brother been talking upon
a subject, and had every body's attention, till you came in, with your bewitching meek pride,
and humble significance? And then have we either been stopped by references to Miss Clary's
opinion, forsooth; or been forced to stop ourselves, or must have talked on unattended to by
every body.

She paused. Dear Bella, proceed!

She indeed seemed only gathering breath.

And so I will, said she--Did you not bewitch my grandfather? Could any thing be pleasing to
him, that you did not say or do? How did he use to hang, till he slabbered again, poor doting
old man! on your silver tongue! Yet what did you say, that we could not have said? What did
you do, that we did not endeavour to do?--And what was all this for? Why, truly, his last will
shewed what effect your smooth obligingness had upon him!--To leave the acquired part of his
estate from the next heirs, his own sons, to a grandchild; to his youngest grandchild! A daughter
too!--To leave the family-pictures from his sons to you, because you could tiddle about them,
and, though you now neglect their examples, could wipe and clean them with your dainty hands!
The family-plate too, in such quantities, of two or three generations standing, must not be
changed, because his precious child,* humouring his old fal-lal taste, admired it, to make
it all her own.

     * Alluding to his words in the preamble to the clauses in
     his will. See Letter IV.

This was too low to move me: O my poor sister! said I: not to be able, or at least willing,
to distinguish between art and nature! If I did oblige, I was happy in it: I looked for no
further reward: my mind is above art, from the dirty motives you mention. I wish with all my
heart my grandfather had not thus distinguished me; he saw my brother likely to be amply provided
for out of the family, as well as in it: he desired that you might have the greater share of
my father's favour for it; and no doubt but you both have. You know, Bella, that the estate
my grandfather bequeathed me was not half the real estate he left.

What's all that to an estate in possession, and left you with such distinctions, as gave you
a reputation of greater value than the estate itself?

Hence my misfortune, Bella, in your envy, I doubt!--But have I not given up that possession
in the best manner I could--

Yes, interrupting me, she hated me for that best manner. Specious little witch! she called
me: your best manner, so full of art and design, had never been seen through, if you, with
your blandishing ways, have not been put out of sight, and reduced to positive declarations!--Hindered
from playing your little declarations!--Hindered from playing your little whining tricks! curling,
like a serpent about your mamma; and making her cry to deny you any thing your little obstinate
heart was set upon--!

Obstinate heart, Bella!

Yes, obstinate heart! For did you ever give up any thing? Had you not the art to make them
think all was right you asked, though my brother and I were frequently refused favours of no
greater import!

I know not, Bella, that I ever asked any thing unfit to be granted. I seldom asked favours
for myself, but for others.

I was a reflecting creature for this.

All you speak of, Bella, was a long time ago. I cannot go so far back into our childish follies.
Little did I think of how long standing your late-shewn antipathy is.

I was a reflector again! Such a saucy meekness; such a best manner; and such venom in words!--O
Clary! Clary! Thou wert always a two-faced girl!

Nobody thought I had two faces, when I gave up all into my father's management; taking from
his bounty, as before, all my little pocket-money, without a shilling addition to my stipend,
or desiring it--

Yes, cunning creature!--And that was another of your fetches!--For did it not engage my fond
father (as no doubt you thought it would) to tell you, that since you had done so grateful
and dutiful a thing, he would keep entire, for your use, all the produce of the estate left
you, and be but your steward in it; and that you should be entitled to the same allowances
as before? Another of your hook-in's, Clary!--So that all your extravagancies have been supported
gratis.

My extravagancies, Bella!--But did my father ever give me any thing he did not give you?

Yes, indeed; I got more by that means, than I should have had the conscience to ask. But I
have still the greater part to shew! But you! What have you to shew?--I dare say, not fifty
pieces in the world!

Indeed I have not!

I believe you!--Your mamma Norton, I suppose--But mum for that--!

Unworthy Bella! The good woman, although low in circumstance, is great in mind! Much greater
than those who would impute meanness to a soul incapable of it.

What then have you done with the sums given you from infancy to squander?--Let me ask you [affecting
archness], Has, has, has Lovelace, has your rake, put it out at interest for you?

O that my sister would not make me blush for her! It is, however, out at interest!--And I hope
it will bring me interest upon interest!--Better than to lie useless in my cabinet.

She understood me, she said. Were I a man, she should suppose I was aiming to carry the county--Popularity!
A crowd to follow me with their blessings as I went to and from church, and nobody else to
be regarded, were agreeable things. House-top-proclamations! I hid not my light under a bushel,
she would say that for me. But was it not a little hard upon me, to be kept from blazing on
a Sunday?--And to be hindered from my charitable ostentations?

This, indeed, Bella, is cruel in you, who have so largely contributed to my confinement.--But
go on. You'll be out of breath by-and-by. I cannot wish to be able to return this usage.--Poor
Bella! And I believe I smiled a little too contemptuously for a sister to a sister.

None of your saucy contempts [rising in her voice]: None of your poor Bella's, with that air
of superiority in a younger sister!

Well then, rich Bella! courtesying--that will please you better--and it is due likewise to
the hoards you boast of.

Look ye, Clary, holding up her hand, if you are not a little more abject in your meekness,
a little more mean in your humility, and treat me with the respect due to an elder sister--you
shall find--

Not that you will treat me worse than you have done, Bella!--That cannot be; unless you were
to let fall your uplifted hand upon me--and that would less become you to do, than me to bear.

Good, meek creature:--But you were upon your overtures just now!--I shall surprise every body
by tarrying so long. They will think some good may be done with you--and supper will be ready.

A tear would stray down my cheek--How happy have I been, said I, sighing, in the supper-time
conversations, with all my dear friends in my eye round their hospitable board.

I met only with insult for this--Bella has not a feeling heart. The highest joy in this life
she is not capable of: but then she saves herself many griefs, by her impenetrableness--yet,
for ten times the pain that such a sensibility is attended with, would I not part with the
pleasure it brings with it.

She asked me, upon my turning from her, if she should not say any thing below of my compliances?

You may say, that I will do every thing they would have me do, if they will free me from Mr.
Solmes's address.

This is all you desire at present, creeper on! insinuator! [What words she has!] But will not
t'other man flame out, and roar most horribly, upon the snatching from his paws a prey he thought
himself sure of?

I must let you talk in your own way, or we shall never come to a point. I shall not matter
in his roaring, as you call it. I will promise him, that, if I ever marry any other man, it
shall not be till he is married. And if he be not satisfied with such a condescension, I shall
think he ought: and I will give any assurances, that I will neither correspond with him, nor
see him. Surely this will do.

But I suppose then you will have no objection to see and converse, on a civil footing, with
Mr. Solmes--as your father's friend, or so?

No! I must be permitted to retire to my apartment whenever he comes. I would no more converse
with the one, than correspond with the other. That would be to make Mr. Lovelace guilty of
some rashness, on a belief, that I broke with him, to have Mr. Solmes.

And so, that wicked wretch is to be allowed such a controul over you, that you are not to be
civil to your father's friends, at his own house, for fear of incensing him!--When this comes
to be represented, be so good as to tell me, what is it you expect from it!

Every thing, I said, or nothing, as she was pleased to represent it.--Be so good as to give
it your interest, Bella, and say, further, 'That I will by any means I can, in the law or otherwise,
make over to my father, to my uncles, or even to my brother, all I am entitled to by my grandfather's
will, as a security for the performance of my promises. And as I shall have no reason to expect
any favour from my father, if I break them, I shall not be worth any body's having. And further
still, unkindly as my brother has used me, I will go down to Scotland privately, as his housekeeper
[I now see I may be spared here] if he will promise to treat me no worse than he would do an
hired one.--Or I will go to Florence, to my cousin Morden, if his stay in Italy will admit
of it. In either case, it may be given out, that I am gone to the other; or to the world's
end. I care not whither it is said I am gone, or do go.'

Let me ask you, child, if you will give your pretty proposal in writing?

Yes, with all my heart. And I stepped to my closet, and wrote to the purpose I have mentioned;
and moreover, the following lines to my brother.

MY DEAR BROTHER,

I hope I have made such proposals to my sister as will be accepted. I am sure they will, if
you please to give them your sanction. Let me beg of you, for God's sake, that you will. I
think myself very unhappy in having incurred your displeasure. No sister can love a brother
better than I love you. Pray do not put the worst but the best constructions upon my proposals,
when you have them reported to you. Indeed I mean the best. I have no subterfuges, no arts,
no intentions, but to keep to the letter of them. You shall yourself draw up every thing into
writing, as strong as you can, and I will sign it: and what the law will not do to enforce
it, my resolution and my will shall: so that I shall be worth nobody's address, that has not
my papa's consent: nor shall any person, nor any consideration, induce me to revoke it. You
can do more than any body to reconcile my parents and uncles to me. Let me owe this desirable
favour to your brotherly interposition, and you will for ever oblige

Your afflicted Sister, CL. HARLOWE.

***

And how do you think Bella employed herself while I was writing?--Why, playing gently upon
my harpsichord; and humming to it, to shew her unconcernedness.

When I approached her with what I had written, she arose with an air of levity--Why, love,
you have not written already!--You have, I protest!--O what a ready penwoman!--And may I read it?

If you please. And let me beseech you, my dear Bella, to back these proposals with your good
offices: and [folding my uplifted hands; tears, I believe, standing in my eyes] I will love
you as never sister loved another.

Thou art a strange creature, said she; there is no withstanding thee.

She took the proposals and letter; and having read them, burst into an affected laugh: How
wise ones may be taken in!--Then you did not know, that I was jesting with you all this time!--And
so you would have me carry down this pretty piece of nonsense?

Don't let me be surprised at your seeming unsisterliness, Bella. I hope it is but seeming.
There can be no wit in such jesting as this.

The folly of the creature!--How natural is it for people, when they set their hearts upon any
thing, to think every body must see with their eyes!--Pray, dear child, what becomes of your
father's authority here?--Who stoops here, the parent, or the child?--How does this square
with engagements actually agreed upon between your father and Mr. Solmes? What security, that
your rake will not follow you to the world's end?--Nevertheless, that you may not think that
I stand in the way of a reconciliation on such fine terms as these, I will be your messenger
this once, and hear what my papa will say to it; although beforehand I can tell you, these
proposals will not answer the principal end.

So down she went. But, it seems, my aunt Hervey and my uncle Harlowe were not gone away: and
as they have all engaged to act in concert, messengers were dispatched to my uncle and aunt
to desire them to be there to breakfast in the morning.

MONDAY NIGHT, ELEVEN O'CLOCK.

I am afraid I shall not be thought worthy--

Just as I began to fear I should not be thought worthy of an answer, Betty rapped at my door,
and said, if I were not in bed, she had a letter for me. I had but just done writing the above
dialogue, and stept to the door with the pen in my hand--Always writing, Miss! said the bold
wench: it is admirable how you can get away what you write--but the fairies, they say, are
always at hand to help lovers.--She retired in so much haste, that, had I been disposed, I
could not take the notice of this insolence which it deserved.

I enclose my brother's letter. He was resolved to let me see, that I should have nothing to
expect from his kindness. But surely he will not be permitted to carry every point. The assembling
of my friends to-morrow is a good sign: and I will hope something from that, and from proposals
so reasonable. And now I will try if any repose will fall to my lot for the remainder of this
night.

TO MISS CLARY HARLOWE [ENCLOSED IN THE PRECEDING.]

Your proposals will be considered by your father and mother, and all your friends, to-morrow
morning. What trouble does your shameful forwardness give us all! I wonder you have the courage
to write to me, upon whom you are so continually emptying your whole female quiver. I have
no patience with you, for reflecting upon me as the aggressor in a quarrel which owed its beginning
to my consideration for you.

You have made such confessions in a villain's favour, as ought to cause all your relations
to renounce you for ever. For my part, I will not believe any woman in the world, who promises
against her avowed inclination. To put it out of your power to ruin yourself is the only way
left to prevent your ruin. I did not intend to write; but your too-kind sister has prevailed
upon me. As to your going to Scotland, that day of grace is over.--Nor would I advise, that
you should go to grandfather-up your cousin Morden. Besides, that worthy gentleman might be
involved in some fatal dispute, upon your account; and then be called the aggressor.

A fine situation you have brought yourself to, to propose to hide yourself from your rake,
and to have falsehoods told, to conceal you!--Your confinement, at this rate, is the happiest
thing that could befal you. Your bravo's behaviour at church, looking out for you, is a sufficient
indication of his power over you, had you not so shamelessly acknowledged it.

One word for all--Your parents and uncles may do as they will: but if, for the honour of the
family, I cannot carry this point, I will retire to Scotland, and never see the face of any
one of it more.

JAMES HARLOWE.

***

There's a brother!--There's flaming duty to a father, and mother, and uncles!--But he sees
himself valued, and made of consequence; and he gives himself airs accordingly!--Nevertheless,
as I said above, I will hope better things from those who have not the interest my brother
has to keep open these unhappy differences.

Would you not have thought, my dear Miss Howe, as well as I, that my proposal must have been
accepted: and that my brother, by the last article of his unbrotherly letter (where he threatens
to go to Scotland if it should be hearkened to) was of opinion that it would.

For my part, after I had read the unkind letter over and over, I concluded, upon the whole,
that a reconciliation upon terms so disadvantageous to myself, as hardly any other person in
my case, I dare say, would have proposed, must be the result of this morning's conference.
And in that belief I had begun to give myself new trouble in thinking (this difficulty over)
how I should be able to pacify Lovelace on that part of my engagement, by which I undertook
to break off all correspondence with him, unless my friends should be brought, by the interposition
of his powerful friends, and any offers they might make, (which it was rather his part to suggest,
than mine to intimate,) to change their minds.

Thus was I employed, not very agreeably, you may believe, because of the vehemence of the tempers
I had to conflict with; when breakfasting-time approached, and my judges began to arrive.

And oh! how my heart fluttered on hearing the chariot of the one, and then of the other, rattle
through the court-yard, and the hollow-sounding foot-step giving notice of each person's stepping
out, to take his place on the awful bench which my fancy had formed for them and my other judges!

That, thought I, is my aunt Hervey's! That my uncle Harlowe's! Now comes my uncle Antony! And
my imagination made a fourth chariot for the odious Solmes, although it happened he was not there.

And now, thought I, are they all assembled: and now my brother calls upon my sister to make
her report! Now the hard-hearted Bella interlards her speech with invective! Now has she concluded
her report! Now they debate upon it!--Now does my brother flame! Now threaten to go to Scotland!
Now is he chidden, and now soothed!

And then I ran through the whole conference in my imagination, forming speeches for this person
and that, pro and con, till all concluded, as I flattered myself, in an acceptance of my conditions,
and in giving directions to have an instrument drawn to tie me up to my good behaviour; while
I supposed all agreed to give Solmes a wife every way more worthy of him, and with her the
promise of my grandfather's estate, in case of my forfeiture, or dying unmarried, on the righteous
condition he proposes to entitle himself to it with me.

And now, thought I, am I to be ordered down to recognize my own proposals. And how shall I
look upon my awful judges? How shall I stand the questions of some, the set surliness of others,
the returning love of one or two? How greatly shall I be affected!

Then I wept: then I dried my eyes: then I practised at my glass for a look more cheerful than
my heart.

And now [as any thing stirred] is my sister coming to declare the issue of all! Tears gushing
again, my heart fluttering as a bird against its wires; drying my eyes again and again to no
purpose.

And thus, my Nancy, [excuse the fanciful prolixity,] was I employed, and such were my thoughts
and imaginations, when I found a very different result from the hopeful conference.

For about ten o'clock up came my sister, with an air of cruel triumph, waving her hand with
a light flourish--

Obedience without reserve is required of you, Clary. My papa is justly incensed, that you should
presume to dispute his will, and to make conditions with him. He knows what is best for you:
and as you own matters are gone a great way between this hated Lovelace and you, they will
believe nothing you say; except you will give the one only instance, that will put them out
of doubt of the sincerity of your promises.

What, child, are you surprised?--Cannot you speak?--Then, it seems, you had expected a different
issue, had you?--Strange that you could!--With all your acknowledgements and confessions, so
creditable to your noted prudence--!

I was indeed speechless for some time: my eyes were even fixed, and ceased to flow. But upon
the hard-hearted Bella's proceeding with her airs of insult, Indeed I was mistaken, said I;
indeed I was!----For in you, Bella, I expected, I hoped for, a sister--

What! interrupted she, with all your mannerly flings, and your despising airs, did you expect
that I was capable of telling stories for you?--Did you think, that when I was asked my own
opinion of the sincerity of your declarations, I could not tell tem, how far matters had gone
between you and your fellow?--When the intention is to bend that stubborn will of yours to
your duty, do you think I would deceive them?--Do you think I would encourage them to call
you down, to contradict all that I should have invented in your favour?

Well, well, Bella; I am the less obliged to you; that's all. I was willing to think that I
had still a brother and sister. But I find I am mistaken.

Pretty mopsy-eyed soul!--was her expression!--And was it willing to think it had still a brother
and sister? And why don't you go on, Clary? [mocking my half-weeping accent] I thought I had
a father, and mother, two uncles, and an aunt: but I am mis--taken, that's all--come, Clary,
say this, and it will in part be true, because you have thrown off all their authority, and
because you respect one vile wretch more than them all.

How have I deserved this at your hands, Sister?--But I will only say, I pity you.

And with that disdainful air too, Clary!--None of that bridled neck! none of your scornful
pity, girl!--I beseech you!

This sort of behaviour is natural to you, surely, Bella!--What new talents does it discover
in you!--But proceed--If it be a pleasure to you, proceed, Bella. And since I must not pity
you, I will pity myself: for nobody else will.

Because you don't, said she--

Hush, Bella, interrupting her, because I don't deserve it--I know you were going to say so.
I will say as you say in every thing; and that's the way to please you.

Then say, Lovelace is a villain.

So I will, when I think him so.

Then you don't think him so?

Indeed I don't. You did not always, Bella.

And what, Clary, mean you by that? [bristling up to me]--Tell me what you mean by that reflection?

Tell me why you call it a reflection?--What did I say?

Thou art a provoking creature--But what say you to two or three duels of that wretch's?

I can't tell what to say, unless I knew the occasions.

Do you justify duelling at all?

I do not: neither can I help his duelling.

Will you go down, and humble that stubborn spirit of yours to your mamma?

I said nothing.

Shall I conduct your Ladyship down? [offering to take my declined hand].

What! not vouchsafe to answer me?

I turned from her in silence.

What! turn your back upon me too!--Shall I bring up your mamma to you, love? [following me,
and taking my struggling hand] What? not speak yet! Come, my sullen, silent dear, speak one
word to me--you must say two very soon to Mr. Solmes, I can tell you that.

Then [gushing into tears, which I could not hold in longer] they shall be the last words I
will ever speak.

Well, well, [insultingly wiping my averted face with her handkerchief, while her other hand
held mine, in a ridiculing tone,] I am glad any thing will make thee speak: then you think
you may be brought to speak the two words--only they are to be the last!--How like a gentle
lovyer from its tender bleeding heart was that!

Ridiculous Bella!

Saucy Clary! [changing her sneering tone to an imperious one] But do you think you can humble
yourself to go down to your mamma?

I am tired of such stuff as this. Tell me, Bella, if my mamma will condescend to see me?

Yes, if you can be dutiful at last.

I can. I will.

But what call you dutiful?

To give up my own inclinations--That's something more for you to tell of--in obedience to my
parents' commands; and to beg that I may not be made miserable with a man that is fitter for
any body than for me.

For me, do you mean, Clary?

Why not? since you have put the question. You have a better opinion of him than I have. My
friends, I hope, would not think him too good for me, and not good enough for you. But cannot
you tell me, Bella, what is to become of me, without insulting over me thus?--If I must be
thus treated, remember, that if I am guilty of any rashness, the usage I meet with will justify it.

So, Clary, you are contriving an excuse, I find, for somewhat that we have not doubted has
been in your head a great while.

If it were so, you seem resolved, for your part, and so does my brother for his, that I shall
not want one.--But indeed, Bella, I can bear no longer this repetition of the worst part of
yesterday's conversation: I desire I may throw myself at my father's and mother's feet, and
hear from them what their sentence is. I shall at least avoid, by that means, the unsisterly
insults I meet with from you.

Hey-day! What, is this you? Is it you, my meek sister Clary?

Yes, it is I, Bella; and I will claim the protection due to a child of the family, or to know
why I am to be thus treated, when I offer only to preserve to myself the liberty of refusal,
which belongs to my sex; and, to please my parents, would give up my choice. I have contented
myself till now to take second-hand messengers, and first-hand insults: you are but my sister:
my brother is not my sovereign. And while I have a father and mother living, I will not be
thus treated by a brother and sister, and their servants, all setting upon me, as it should
seem, to make me desperate, and do a rash thing.--I will know, in short, sister Bella, why
I am to be constrained thus?--What is intended by it?--And whether I am to be considered as
a child or a slave?

She stood aghast all this time, partly with real, partly with affected, surprise.

And is it you? Is it indeed you?--Well, Clary, you amaze me! But since you are so desirous
to refer yourself to your father and mother, I will go down, and tell them what you say. Your
friends are not yet gone, I believe: they shall assemble again; and then you may come down,
and plead your own cause in person.

Let me then. But let my brother and you be absent. You have made yourselves too much parties
against me, to sit as my judges. And I desire to have none of yours or his interpositions.
I am sure you could not have represented what I proposed fairly: I am sure you could not. Nor
is it possible you should be commissioned to treat me thus.

Well, well, I'll call up my brother to you.--I will indeed.--He shall justify himself, as well
as me.

I desire not to see my brother, except he will come as a brother, laying aside the authority
he has unjustly assumed over me.

And so, Clary, it is nothing to him, or to me, is it, that our sister shall disgrace her whole
family?

As how, Bella, disgrace it?--The man whom you thus freely treat, is a man of birth and fortune:
he is a man of parts, and nobly allied.--He was once thought worthy of you: and I wish to Heaven
you had had him. I am sure it was not thus my fault you had not, although you treat me thus.

This set her into a flame: I wish I had forborne it. O how the poor Bella raved! I thought
she would have beat me once or twice: and she vowed her fingers itched to do so--but I was
not worth her anger: yet she flamed on.

We were heard to be high.--And Betty came up from my mother to command my sister to attend
her.--She went down accordingly, threatening me with letting every one know what a violent
creature I had shewn myself to be.

TUESDAY NOON, MARCH 21.

I have as yet heard no more of my sister: and have not courage enough to insist upon throwing
myself at the feet of my father and mother, as I thought in my heat of temper I should be able
to do. And I am now grown as calm as ever; and were Bella to come up again, as fit to be played
upon as before.

I am indeed sorry that I sent her from me in such disorder. But my papa's letter threatening
me with my uncle Antony's house and chapel, terrifies me strangely; and by their silence I'm
afraid some new storm is gathering.

But what shall I do with this Lovelace? I have just now, but the unsuspected hole in the wall
(that I told you of in my letter by Hannah) got a letter from him--so uneasy is he for fear
I should be prevailed upon in Solmes's favour; so full of menaces, if I am; so resenting the
usage I receive [for, how I cannot tell, but he has undoubtedly intelligence of all that is
done in the family]; such protestations of inviolable faith and honour; such vows of reformation;
such pressing arguments to escape from this disgraceful confinement--O my Nancy, what shall
I do with this Lovelace?--

LETTER XLIV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE WENESDAY MORNING, NINE O'CLOCK.

My aunt Hervey lay here last night, and is but just gone from me. She came up to me with my
sister. They would not trust my aunt without this ill-natured witness. When she entered my
chamber, I told her, that this visit was a high favour to a poor prisoner, in her hard confinement.
I kissed her hand. She, kindly saluting me, said, Why this distance to your aunt, my dear,
who loves you so well?

She owned, that she came to expostulate with me, for the peace-sake of the family: for that
she could not believe it possible, if I did not conceive myself unkindly treated, that I, who
had ever shewn such a sweetness of temper, as well as manners, should be thus resolute, in
a point so very near to my father, and all my friends. My mother and she were both willing
to impute my resolution to the manner I had been begun with; and to my supposing that my brother
had originally more of a hand in the proposals made by Mr. Solmes, than my father or other
friends. In short, fain would my aunt have furnished me with an excuse to come off my opposition;
Bell all the while humming a tune, and opening this book and that, without meaning; but saying
nothing.

After having shewed me, that my opposition could not be of signification, my father's honour
being engaged, my aunt concluded with enforcing upon me my duty, in stronger terms than I believe
she would have done, (the circumstances of the case considered), had not my sister been present.

It would be repeating what I have so often mentioned, to give you the arguments that passed
on both sides.--So I will only recite what she was pleased to say, that carried with it a new face.

When she found me inflexible, as she was pleased to call it, she said, For her part, she could
not but say, that if I were not to have either Mr. Solmes or Mr. Lovelace, and yet, to make
my friends easy, must marry, she should not think amiss of Mr. Wyerley. What did I think of
Mr. Wyerley?

Ay, Clary, put in my sister, what say you to Mr. Wyerley?

I saw through this immediately. It was said on purpose, I doubted not, to have an argument
against me of absolute prepossession in Mr. Lovelace's favour: since Mr. Wyerley every where
avows his value, even to veneration, for me; and is far less exceptionable both in person and
mind, than Mr. Solmes: and I was willing to turn the tables, by trying how far Mr. Solmes's
terms might be dispensed with; since the same terms could not be expected from Mr. Wyerley.

I therefore desired to know, whether my answer, if it should be in favour of Mr. Wyerley, would
release me from Mr. Solmes?--For I owned, that I had not the aversion to him, that I had to
the other.

Nay, she had no commission to propose such a thing. She only knew, that my father and mother
would not be easy till Mr. Lovelace's hopes were entirely defeated.

Cunning creature! said my sister.

And this, and her joining in the question before, convinced me, that it was a designed snare
for me.

Don't you, dear Madam, said I, put questions that can answer no end, but to support my brother's
schemes against me.--But are there any hopes of an end to my sufferings and disgrace, without
having this hated man imposed upon me? Will not what I have offered be accepted? I am sure
it ought--I will venture to say that.

Why, Niece, if there be not any such hopes, I presume you don't think yourself absolved from
the duty due from a child to her parents?

Yes, said my sister, I do not doubt but it is Miss Clary's aim, if she does not fly to her
Lovelace, to get her estate into her own hands, and go to live at The Grove, in that independence
upon which she builds all her perverseness. And, dear heart! my little love, how will you then
blaze away! Your mamma Norton, your oracle, with your poor at your gates, mingling so proudly
and so meanly with the ragged herd! Reflecting, by your ostentation, upon all the ladies in
the county, who do not as you do. This is known to be your scheme! and the poor without-doors,
and Lovelace within, with one hand building up a name, pulling it down with the other!--O what
a charming scheme is this!--But let me tell you, my pretty little flighty one, that your father's
living will shall controul your grandfather's dead one; and that estate will be disposed of
as your fond grandfather would have disposed of it, had he lived to see such a change in his
favourite. In a word, Miss, it will be kept out of your hands, till my father sees you discreet
enough to have the management of it, or till you can dutifully, by law, tear it from him.

Fie, Miss Harlowe! said my aunt: this is not pretty to your sister.

O Madam, let her go on. This is nothing to what I have borne from Miss Harlowe. She is either
commissioned to treat me ill by her envy, or by an higher authority, to which I must submit.--As
to revoking the estate, what hinders, if I pleased? I know my power; but have not the least
thought of exerting it. Be pleased to let my father know, that, whatever be the consequence
to myself, were he to turn me out of doors, (which I should rather he would do, than to be
confined and insulted as I am), and were I to be reduced to indigence and want, I would seek
no relief that should be contrary to his will.

For that matter, child, said my aunt, were you to marry, you must do as your husband will have
you. If that husband be Mr. Lovelace, he will be glad of any opportunity of further embroiling
the families. And, let me tell you, Niece, if he had the respect for you which he pretends
to have, he would not throw out defiances as he does. He is known to be a very revengeful man;
and were I you, Miss Clary, I should be afraid he would wreak upon me that vengeance, though
I had not offended him, which he is continually threatening to pour upon the family.

Mr. Lovelace's threatened vengeance is in return for threatened vengeance. It is not every
body will bear insult, as, of late, I have been forced to bear it.

O how my sister's face shone with passion!

But Mr. Lovelace, proceeded I, as I have said twenty and twenty times, would be quite out of
question with me, were I to be generously treated!

My sister said something with great vehemence: but only raising my voice, to be heard, without
minding her, Pray, Madam, (provokingly interrogated I), was he not known to have been as wild
a man, when he was at first introduced into our family, as he now is said to be? Yet then,
the common phrases of wild oats, and black oxen, and such-like, were qualifiers; and marriage,
and the wife's discretion, were to perform wonders--but (turning to my sister) I find I have
said too much.

O thou wicked reflecter!--And what made me abhor him, think you, but the proof of those villainous
freedoms that ought to have had the same effect upon you, were you but half so good a creature
as you pretend to be?

Proof, did you say, Bella! I thought you had not proof?--But you know best.

Was not this very spiteful, my dear?

Now, Clary, said she, would I give a thousand pounds to know all that is in thy little rancorous
and reflecting heart at this moment.

I might let you know for a much less sum, and not be afraid of being worse treated than I have
been.

Well, young ladies, I am sorry to see passion run so high between you. You know, Niece, (to
me,) you had not been confined thus to your apartment, could your mother by condescension,
or your father by authority, have been able to move you. But how can you expect, when there
must be a concession on one side, that it should be on theirs? If my Dolly, who has not the
hundredth part of your understanding, were thus to set herself up in absolute contradiction
to my will, in a point so material, I should not take it well of her--indeed I should not.

I believe not, Madam: and if Miss Hervey had just such a brother, and just such a sister [you
may look, Bella!] and if both were to aggravate her parents, as my brother and sister do mine--then,
perhaps, you might use her as I am used: and if she hated the man you proposed to her, and
with as much reason as I do Mr. Solmes--

And loved a rake and libertine, Miss, as you do Lovelace, said my sister--

Then might she [continued I, not minding her,] beg to be excused from obeying. Yet if she did,
and would give you the most solemn assurances, and security besides, that she would never have
the man you disliked, against your consent--I dare say, Miss Hervey's father and mother would
sit down satisfied, and not endeavour to force her inclinations.

So!--[said my sister, with uplifted hands] father and mother now come in for their share!

But if, child, replied my aunt, I knew she loved a rake, and suspected that she sought only
to gain time, in order to wire-draw me into a consent--

I beg pardon, Madam, for interrupting you; but if Miss Hervey could obtain your consent, what
further would be said?

True, child; but she never should.

Then, Madam, it would never be.

That I doubt, Niece.

If you do, Madam, can you think confinement and ill usage is the way to prevent the apprehended
rashness?

My dear, this sort of intimation would make one but too apprehensive, that there is no trusting
to yourself, when one knows your inclination.

That apprehension, Madam, seems to have been conceived before this intimation, or the least
cause for it, was given. Why else the disgraceful confinement I have been laid under?--Let
me venture to say, that my sufferings seem to be rather owing to a concerted design to intimidate
me [Bella held up her hands], (knowing there were too good grounds for my opposition,) than
to a doubt of my conduct; for, when they were inflicted first, I had given no cause of doubt:
nor should there now be room for any, if my discretion might be trusted to.

My aunt, after a little hesitation, said, But, consider, my dear, what confusion will be perpetuated
in your family, if you marry this hated Lovelace!

And let it be considered, what misery to me, Madam, if I marry that hated Solmes!

Many a young creature has thought she could not love a man, with whom she has afterwards been
very happy. Few women, child, marry their first loves.

That may be the reason there are so few happy marriages.

But there are few first impressions fit to be encouraged.

I am afraid so too, Madam. I have a very indifferent opinion of light and first impressions.
But, as I have often said, all I wish for is, to have leave to live single.

Indeed you must not, Miss. Your father and mother will be unhappy till they see you married,
and out of Lovelace's reach. I am told that you propose to condition with him (so far are matters
gone between you) never to have any man, if you have not him.

I know no better way to prevent mischief on all sides, I freely own it--and there is not, if
he be out of the question, another man in the world I can think favourably of. Nevertheless,
I would give all I have in the world, that he were married to some other person--indeed I would,
Bella, for all you put on that smile of incredulity.

May be so, Clary: but I will smile for all that.

If he be out of the question! repeated my aunt--So, Miss Clary, I see how it is--I will go
down--[Miss Harlowe, shall I follow you?]--And I will endeavour to persuade your father to
let my sister herself come up: and a happier event may then result.

Depend upon it, Madam, said my sister, this will be the case: my mother and she will both be
in tears; but with this different effect: my mother will come down softened, and cut to the
heart; but will leave her favourite hardened, from the advantages she will think she has over
my mother's tenderness--why, Madam, it is for this very reason the girl is not admitted into
her presence.

Thus she ran on, as she went downstairs.

END OF VOL. 1