"And our brothers, the inhabitants of the regions which we have just traversed, have they not
shown a courage a thousand times greater than mine, in giving up their country to the flames?
My one hope is in the absolute need our enemy has of Gallic pilots to conduct his ships along
the Breton coasts. Now especially, when the land offers not a single resource to his army,
the way by sea is perhaps his only means of safety. You saw, when he learned of that heroic
devastation, that he could not, even he, always so dissembling, they say, hide his consternation
and fury, which he then tried to forget in the fumes of wine. And that is not the only debauchery
to which he gives himself up. I saw you blush under the obstinate looks of the infamous debauchee."

"Oh, Albinik! while my forehead reddened with shame and anger under the eyes of Caesar, twice
my hand sought and clasped under my garments the weapon with which I am provided. Once I measured
the distance which separated me from him--it was too great."

"At the first movement, before reaching him, you would have been pierced with a thousand sword
thrusts. Our project is worth more. If it thrives," added Albinik, throwing a meaning glance
at his companion, and instead of speaking low as he had been doing up till now, raising his
voice little by little, "if our project thrives, if Caesar has faith in my word, we will be
able at last to avenge ourselves on my tormentor. Oh, I tell you, I feel now for Gaul the hatred
with which the Romans once inspired me!"

Surprised by Albinik's words, Meroë stared at him in amazement. But by a sign he showed her,
through the empty space left between the ground and the cloth, of the tent, the toes of the
sandals of the interpreter, who had approached and now listened without. At once the young
woman replied:

"I share your hate, as I have shared your heart's love, and the peril of your mariner's life.
May Hesus cause Caesar to understand what services you can render him, and I shall be the witness
of your revenge as I was the witness of your torture."

These words, and many others, exchanged by the couple to the end of deceiving the interpreter,
apparently reassured the spy of the honesty of the two prisoners, for presently they saw him
move away.

Shortly thereafter, at the moment that Albinik and Meroë, fatigued with their long journey,
were about to throw themselves into bed in their clothes, the interpreter appeared at the entry.
The uplifted cloth disclosed several Spanish soldiers.

"Caesar wishes to converse with you immediately," said the interpreter to the mariner. "Follow me."

Albinik felt certain that the suspicions of the Roman general, if he had any, had just been
allayed by the interpreter's report, and that the moment had come when he was to learn the
mission with which they wished to charge him. Accordingly, he prepared to leave the tent, and
Meroë with him, when the interpreter said to the young woman, stopping her with a gesture:

"You may not accompany us. Caesar wishes to speak with your companion alone."

"And I," answered the seaman, taking his wife by the hand, "I shall not leave Meroë."

"Do you really refuse my order?" cried the interpreter. "Beware, beware!"

"We go together to Caesar," began Meroë, "or we go not at all."

"Poor fools! Are you not prisoners at our mercy?" said the interpreter to them, pointing to
the soldiers, motionless at the door of the tent. "Willingly or unwillingly, I will be obeyed."

Albinik reflected that resistance was impossible. Death he was not afraid of; but to die was
to renounce his plans at the moment when they seemed to be prospering. Nevertheless, the thought
of leaving Meroë alone in the tent disturbed him. The young woman divined the fears of her
husband, and feeling, like him, that they must resign themselves, said:

