At three o'clock or thereabout you rise as gently back to life, and sit erect in your chair
without a stretch or a yawn in your whole anatomy. Then is the one time of day for a display
of energy--if you have any to display. Ship games, walks--fairly brisk--explorations to the
forecastle, a watch for flying fish or Arab dhows, anything until tea-time. Then the glowing
sunset; the opalescent sea, and the soft afterglow of the sky--and the bugle summoning you
to dress. That is a mean job. Nothing could possibly swelter worse than the tiny cabin. The
electric fan is an aggravation. You reappear in your fresh "whites" somewhat warm and flustered
in both mind and body. A turn around the deck cools you off; and dinner restores your equanimity--dinner
with the soft, warm tropic air breathing through all the wide-open ports; the electric fans
drumming busily; the men all in clean white; the ladies, the very few precious ladies, in soft,
low gowns. After dinner the deck, as near cool as it will be, and heads bare to the breeze
of our progress, and glowing cigars. At ten or eleven o'clock the groups begin to break up,
the canvas chairs to empty. Soon reappears a pyjamaed figure followed by a steward carrying
a mattress. This is spread, under its owner's direction, in a dark corner forward. With a sigh
you in your turn plunge down into the sweltering inferno of your cabin, only to reappear likewise
with a steward and a mattress. The latter, if you are wise, you spread where the wind of the
ship's going will be full upon you. It is a strong wind and blows upon you heavily, so that
the sleeves and legs of your pyjamas flop, but it is a soft, warm wind, and beats you as with
muffled fingers. In no temperate clime can you ever enjoy this peculiar effect of a strong
breeze on your naked skin without even the faintest surface chilly sensation. So habituated
has one become to feeling cooler in a draught that the absence of chill lends the night an
unaccustomedness, the more weird in that it is unanalyzed, so that one feels definitely that
one is in a strange, far country. This is intensified by the fact that in these latitudes the
moon, the great, glorious, calm tropical moon, is directly overhead--follows the centre line
of the zenith--instead of being, as with us in our temperate zone, always more or less declined
to the horizon. This, too, lends the night an exotic quality, the more effective in that at
first the reason for it is not apprehended.

A night in the tropics is always more or less broken. One awakens, and sleeps again. Motionless
white-clad figures, cigarettes glowing, are lounging against the rail looking out over a molten
sea. The moonlight lies in patterns across the deck, shivering slightly under the throb of
the engines, or occasionally swaying slowly forward or slowly back as the ship's course changes,
but otherwise motionless, for here the sea is always calm. You raise your head, look about,
sprawl in a new position on your mattress, fall asleep. On one of these occasions you find
unexpectedly that the velvet-gray night has become steel-gray dawn, and that the kindly old
quartermaster is bending over you. Sleepily, very sleepily, you stagger to your feet and collapse
into the nearest chair. Then to the swish of water, as the sailors sluice the decks all around
and under you, you fall into a really deep sleep.

At six o'clock this is broken by chota-hazri, another tropical institution, consisting merely
of clear tea and biscuits. I never could get to care for it, but nowhere in the tropics could
I head it off. No matter how tired I was or how dead sleepy, I had to receive that confounded
chota-hazri. Throwing things at the native who brought it did no good at all. He merely dodged.
Admonition did no good, nor prohibition in strong terms. I was but one white man of the whole
white race; and I had no right to possess idiosyncrasies running counter to dastur, the custom.
However, as the early hours are profitable hours in the tropics, it did not drive me to homicide.

The ship's company now developed. Our two prize members, fortunately for us, sat at our table.
The first was the Swedish professor aforementioned. He was large, benign, paternal, broad in
mind, thoroughly human and beloved, and yet profoundly erudite. He was our iconoclast in the
way of food; for he performed small but illuminating dissections on his plate, and announced
triumphantly results that were not a bit in accordance with the menu. A single bone was sufficient
to take the pretension out of any fish. Our other particular friend was C., with whom later
we travelled in the interior of Africa. C. is a very celebrated hunter and explorer, an old
Africander, his face seamed and tanned by many years in a hard climate. For several days we
did not recognize him, although he sat fairly alongside, but put him down as a shy man, and
let it go at that. He never stayed for the long table d'hôte dinners, but fell upon the first
solid course and made a complete meal from that. When he had quite finished eating all he could,
he drank all he could; then he departed from the table, and took up a remote and inaccessible
position in the corner of the smoking-room. He was engaged in growing the beard he customarily
wore in the jungle--a most fierce outstanding Mohammedan-looking beard that terrified the intrusive
into submission. And yet Bwana C. possesses the kindest blue eyes in the world, full of quiet
patience, great understanding, and infinite gentleness. His manner was abrupt and uncompromising,
but he would do anything in the world for one who stood in need of him. From women he fled;
yet Billy won him with infinite patience, and in the event they became the closest of friends.
Withal he possessed a pair of the most powerful shoulders I have ever seen on a man of his
frame; and in the depths of his mild blue eyes flickered a flame of resolution that I could
well imagine flaring up to something formidable. Slow to make friends, but staunch and loyal;
gentle and forbearing, but fierce and implacable in action; at once loved and most terribly
feared; shy as a wild animal, but straightforward and undeviating in his human relations; most
remarkably quiet and unassuming, but with tremendous vital force in his deep eyes and forward-thrust
jaw; informed with the widest and most understanding humanity, but unforgiving of evildoers;
and with the most direct and absolute courage, Bwana C. was to me the most interesting man
I met in Africa, and became the best of my friends.

The only other man at our table happened to be, for our sins, the young Englishman mentioned
as throwing the first coin to the old woman on the pier at Marseilles. We will call him Brown,
and, because he represents a type, he is worth looking upon for a moment.

He was of the super-enthusiastic sort; bubbling over with vitality, in and out of everything;
bounding up at odd and languid moments. To an extraordinary extent he was afflicted with the
spiritual blindness of his class. Quite genuinely, quite seriously, he was unconscious of the
human significance of beings and institutions belonging to a foreign country or even to a class
other than his own. His own kind he treated as complete and understandable human creatures.
All others were merely objective. As we, to a certain extent, happened to fall in the former
category, he was as pleasant to us as possible--that is, he was pleasant to us in his way,
but had not insight enough to guess at how to be pleasant to us in our way. But as soon as
he got out of his own class, or what he conceived to be such, he considered all people as "outsiders."
He did not credit them with prejudices to rub, with feelings to hurt, indeed hardly with ears
to overhear. Provided his subject was an "outsider," he had not the slightest hesitancy in
saying exactly what he thought about any one, anywhere, always in his high clear English voice,
no matter what the time or occasion. As a natural corollary he always rebuffed beggars and
the like brutally, and was always quite sublimely doing little things that thoroughly shocked
our sense of the other fellow's rights as a human being. In all this he did not mean to be
cruel or inconsiderate. It was just the way he was built; and it never entered his head that
"such people" had ears and brains.

In the rest of the ship's company were a dozen or so other Englishmen of the upper classes,
either army men on shooting trips, or youths going out with some idea of settling in the country.
They were a clean-built, pleasant lot; good people to know anywhere, but of no unusual interest.
It was only when one went abroad into the other nations that inscribable human interest could
be found.

There was the Greek, Scutari, and his bride, a languorous rather opulent beauty, with large
dark eyes for all men, and a luxurious manner of lying back and fanning herself. She talked,
soft-voiced, in half a dozen languages, changing from one to the other without a break in either
her fluency or her thought. Her little lithe, active husband sat around and adored her. He
was apparently a very able citizen indeed, for he was going out to take charge of the construction
work on a German railway. To have filched so important a job from the Germans themselves shows
that he must have had ability. With them were a middle-aged Holland couple, engaged conscientiously
in travelling over the globe. They had been everywhere--the two American hemispheres, from
one Arctic Sea to another, Siberia, China, the Malay Archipelago, this, that, and the other
odd corner of the world. Always they sat placidly side by side, either in the saloon or on
deck, smiling benignly, and conversing in spaced, comfortable syllables with everybody who
happened along. Mrs. Breemen worked industriously on some kind of feminine gear, and explained
to all and sundry that she travelled "to see de sceenery wid my hoos-band."

Also in this group was a small wiry German doctor, who had lived for many years in the far
interior of Africa, and was now returning after his vacation. He was a little man, bright-eyed
and keen, with a clear complexion and hard flesh, in striking and agreeable contrast to most
of his compatriots. The latter were trying to drink all the beer on the ship; but as she had
been stocked for an eighty-day voyage, of which this was but the second week, they were not
making noticeable headway. However, they did not seem to be easily discouraged. The Herr Doktor
was most polite and attentive, but as we did not talk German nor much Swahili, and he had neither
English nor much French, we had our difficulties. I have heard Billy in talking to him scatter
fragments of these four languages through a single sentence!

For several days we drifted down a warm flat sea. Then one morning we came on deck to find
ourselves close aboard a number of volcanic islands. They were composed entirely of red and
dark purple lava blocks, rugged, quite without vegetation save for occasional patches of stringy
green in a gully; and uninhabited except for a lighthouse on one, and a fishing shanty near
the shores of another. The high mournful mountains, with their dark shadows, seemed to brood
over hot desolation. The rusted and battered stern of a wrecked steamer stuck up at an acute
angle from the surges. Shortly after we picked up the shores of Arabia.

Note the advantages of a half ignorance. From early childhood we had thought of Arabia as the
"burning desert"--flat, of course--and of the Red Sea as bordered by "shifting sands" alone.
If we had known the truth--if we had not been half ignorant--we would have missed the profound
surprise of discovering that in reality the Red Sea is bordered by high and rugged mountains,
leaving just space enough between themselves and the shore for a sloping plain on which our
glasses could make out occasional palms. Perhaps the "shifting sands of the burning desert"
lie somewhere beyond; but somebody might have mentioned these great mountains! After examining
them attentively we had to confess that if this sort of thing continued farther north the children
of Israel must have had a very hard time of it. Mocha shone white, glittering, and low, with
the red and white spire of a mosque rising brilliantly above it.

VI.

ADEN.

It was cooler; and for a change we had turned into our bunks, when B. pounded on our stateroom
door.

"In the name of the Eternal East," said he, "come on deck!"

We slipped on kimonos, and joined the row of scantily draped and interested figures along the rail.

The ship lay quite still on a perfect sea of moonlight, bordered by a low flat distant shore
on one side, and nearer mountains on the other. A strong flare, centred from two ship reflectors
overside, made a focus of illumination that subdued, but could not quench, the soft moonlight
with which all outside was silvered. A dozen boats, striving against a current or clinging
as best they could to the ship's side, glided into the light and became real and solid; or
dropped back into the ghostly white unsubstantiality of the moon. They were long, narrow boats,
with small flush decks fore and aft. We looked down on them from almost directly above, so
that we saw the thwarts and the ribs and the things they contained.

Astern in each stood men, bending gracefully against the thrust of long sweeps. About their
waists were squares of cloth, wrapped twice and tucked in. Otherwise they were naked, and the
long smooth muscles of their slender bodies rippled under the skin. The latter was of a beautiful
fine texture, and chocolate brown. These men had keen, intelligent, clear-cut faces, of the
Greek order, as though the statues of a garden had been stained brown and had come to life.
They leaned on their sweeps, thrusting slowly but strongly against the little wind and current
that would drift them back.

In the body of the boats crouched, sat, or lay a picturesque mob. Some pulled spasmodically
on the very long limber oars; others squatted doing nothing; some, huddled shapelessly underneath
white cloths that completely covered them, slept soundly in the bottom. We took these for merchandise
until one of them suddenly threw aside his covering and sat up. Others, again, poised in proud
and graceful attitudes on the extreme prows of their bobbing craft. Especially decorative were
two, clad only in immense white turbans and white cloths about the waist. An old Arab with
a white beard stood midships in one boat, quite motionless, except for the slight swaying necessary
to preserve his equilibrium, his voluminous white draperies fluttering in the wind, his dark
face just distinguishable under his burnouse. Most of the men were Somalis, however. Their
keen small faces, slender but graceful necks, slim, well-formed torsos bending to every movement
of the boat, and the white or gaudy draped nether garments were as decorative as the figures
on an Egyptian tomb. One or two of the more barbaric had made neat headdresses of white clay
plastered in the form of a skull-cap.

After an interval a small and fussy tugboat steamed around our stern and drew alongside the
gangway. Three passengers disembarked from her and made their way aboard. The main deck of
the craft under an awning was heavily encumbered with trunks, tin boxes, hand baggage, tin
bath-tubs, gun cases, and all sorts of impedimenta. The tugboat moored itself to us fore and
aft, and proceeded to think about discharging. Perhaps twenty men in accurate replica of those
in the small boats had charge of the job. They had their own methods. After a long interval
devoted strictly to nothing, some unfathomable impulse would incite one or two or three of
the natives to tackle a trunk. At it they tugged and heaved and pushed in the manner of ants
making off with a particularly large fly or other treasure trove, tossing it up the steep gangway
to the level of our decks. The trunks once safely bestowed, all interest, all industry, died.
We thought that finished it, and wondered why the tug did not pull out of the way. But always,
after an interval, another bright idea would strike another native or natives. He--or they--would
disappear beneath the canvas awning over the tug's deck, to emerge shortly, carrying almost
anything, from a parasol to a heavy chest.

On close inspection they proved to be a very small people. The impression of graceful height
had come from the slenderness and justness of their proportions, the smallness of their bones,
and the upright grace of their carriage. After standing alongside one, we acquired a fine respect
for their ability to handle those trunks at all.

Moored to the other side of the ship we found two huge lighters, from which bales of goods
were being hoisted aboard. Two camels and a dozen diminutive mules stood in the waist of one
of these craft. The camels were as sniffy and supercilious and scornful as camels always are;
and everybody promptly hated them with the hatred of the abysmally inferior spirit for something
that scorns it, as is the usual attitude of the human mind towards camels. We waited for upwards
of an hour, in the hope of seeing those camels hoisted aboard; but in vain. While we were so
waiting one of the deck passengers below us, a Somali in white clothes and a gorgeous cerise
turban, decided to turn in. He spread a square of thin matting atop one of the hatches, and
began to unwind yards and yards of the fine silk turban. He came to the end of it--whisk! he
sank to the deck; the turban, spread open by the resistance of the air, fluttered down to cover
him from head to foot. Apparently he fell asleep at once, for he did not again move nor alter
his position. He, as well as an astonishingly large proportion of the other Somalis and Abyssinians
we saw, carried a queer, well-defined, triangular wound in his head. It had long since healed,
was an inch or so across, and looked as though a piece of the skull had been removed. If a
conscientious enemy had leisure and an icepick he would do just about that sort of a job. How
its recipient had escaped instant death is a mystery.

At length, about three o'clock, despairing of the camels, we turned in.

After three hours' sleep we were again on deck. Aden by daylight seemed to be several sections
of a town tucked into pockets in bold, raw, lava mountains that came down fairly to the water's
edge. Between these pockets ran a narrow shore road; and along the road paced haughty camels
hitched to diminutive carts. On contracted round bluffs towards the sea were various low bungalow
buildings which, we were informed, comprised the military and civil officers' quarters. The
real Aden has been built inland a short distance at the bottom of a cup in the mountains. Elaborate
stone reservoirs have been constructed to catch rain water, as there is no other natural water
supply whatever. The only difficulty is that it practically never rains; so the reservoirs
stand empty, the water is distilled from the sea, and the haughty camels and the little carts
do the distributing.

The lava mountains occupy one side of the spacious bay or gulf. The foot of the bay and the
other side are flat, with one or two very distant white villages, and many heaps of glittering
salt as big as houses.

