It had been the beginning of the tie between them, their first bond of sympathy; and it had
strengthened day by day, and had grown with their growth, firm and indissoluble, until they
loved one another very greatly. Their home was a little hut on the edge of a little village--a
Flemish village a league from Antwerp, set amidst flat breadths of pasture and corn-lands,
with long lines of poplars and of alders bending in the breeze on the edge of the great canal
which ran through it. It had about a score of houses and homesteads, with shutters of bright
green or sky-blue, and roofs rose-red or black and white, and walls white-washed until they
shone in the sun like snow. In the centre of the village stood a windmill, placed on a little
moss-grown slope: it was a landmark to all the level country round. It had once been painted
scarlet, sails and all, but that had been in its infancy, half a century or more earlier, when
it had ground wheat for the soldiers of Napoleon; and it was now a ruddy brown, tanned by wind
and weather. It went queerly by fits and starts, as though rheumatic and stiff in the joints
from age, but it served the whole neighborhood, which would have thought it almost as impious
to carry grain elsewhere as to attend any other religious service than the mass that was performed
at the altar of the little old gray church, with its conical steeple, which stood opposite
to it, and whose single bell rang morning, noon, and night with that strange, subdued, hollow
sadness which every bell that hangs in the Low Countries seems to gain as an integral part
of its melody.

Within sound of the little melancholy clock almost from their birth upward, they had dwelt
together, Nello and Patrasche, in the little hut on the edge of the village, with the cathedral
spire of Antwerp rising in the north-east, beyond the great green plain of seeding grass and
spreading corn that stretched away from them like a tideless, changeless sea.

It was a very humble little mud-hut indeed, but it was clean and white as a sea-shell, and
stood in a small plot of garden-ground that yielded beans and herbs and pumpkins.

For Patrasche was their alpha and omega; their treasury and granary; their store of gold and
wand of wealth; their bread-winner and minister; their only friend and comforter. Patrasche
dead or gone from them, they must have laid themselves down and died likewise. Patrasche was
body, brains, hands, head, and feet to both of them: Patrasche was their very life, their very
soul.

Patrasche had been born of parents who had labored hard all their days over the sharp-set stones
of the various cities and the long, shadowless, weary roads of the two Flanders and of Brabant.
He had been born to no other heritage than those of pain and of toil. He had been fed on curses
and baptized with blows. Why not? It was a Christian country, and Patrasche was but a dog.
To deal the tortures of hell on the animal creation is a way which the Christians have of showing
their belief in it.

Happily for Patrasche--or unhappily--he was very strong: he came of an iron race, long born
and bred to such cruel travail; so that he did not die, but managed to drag on a wretched existence
under the brutal burdens, the scarifying lashes, the hunger, the thirst, the blows, the curses,
and the exhaustion which are the only wages with which the Flemings repay the most patient
and laborious of all their four-footed victims. After a while, finding it useless to assail
his ribs with punishment and his ears with maledictions, the Brabantois--deeming life gone
in him, or going so nearly that his carcass was forever useless, unless indeed some one should
strip it of the skin for gloves--cursed him fiercely in farewell, struck off the leathern bands
of the harness, kicked his body aside into the grass, and, groaning and muttering in savage
wrath, pushed the cart lazily along the road up-hill, and left the dying dog for the ants to
sting and for the crows to pick.

It was the last day before Kermesse away at Louvain, and the Brabantois was in haste to reach
the fair and get a good place for his truck of brass wares. He was in fierce wrath, because
Patrasche had been a strong and much-enduring animal, and because he himself had now the hard
task of pushing his charette all the way to Louvain. But to stay to look after Patrasche never
entered his thoughts: the beast was dying and useless, and he would steal, to replace him,
the first large dog that he found wandering alone out of sight of its master. Patrasche had
cost him nothing, or next to nothing, and for two long, cruel years had made him toil ceaselessly
in his service from sunrise to sunset, through summer and winter, in fair weather and foul.

He had got a fair use and a good profit out of Patrasche: being human, he was wise, and left
the dog to draw his last breath alone in the ditch, and have his bloodshot eyes plucked out
as they might be by the birds, whilst he himself went on his way to beg and to steal, to eat
and to drink, to dance and to sing, in the mirth at Louvain. A dying dog, a dog of the cart--why
should he waste hours over its agonies at peril of losing a handful of copper coins, at peril
of a shout of laughter?

Patrasche lay there, flung in the grass-green ditch. It was a busy road that day, and hundreds
of people, on foot and on mules, in wagons or in carts, went by, tramping quickly and joyously
on to Louvain. Some saw him, most did not even look: all passed on. A dead dog more or less--it
was nothing in Brabant: it would be nothing anywhere in the world.

The upshot of that day was, that old Jehan Daas, with much laborious effort, drew the sufferer
homeward to his own little hut, which was a stone's throw off amidst the fields, and there
tended him with so much care that the sickness, which had been a brain seizure, brought on
by heat and thirst and exhaustion, with time and shade and rest passed away, and health and
strength returned, and Patrasche staggered up again upon his four stout, tawny legs.

Now for many weeks he had been useless, powerless, sore, near to death; but all this time he
had heard no rough word, had felt no harsh touch, but only the pitying murmurs of the child's
voice and the soothing caress of the old man's hand.

In his sickness they too had grown to care for him, this lonely man and the little happy child.
He had a corner of the hut, with a heap of dry grass for his bed; and they had learned to listen
eagerly for his breathing in the dark night, to tell them that he lived; and when he first
was well enough to essay a loud, hollow, broken bay, they laughed aloud, and almost wept together
for joy at such a sign of his sure restoration; and little Nello, in delighted glee, hung round
his rugged neck with chains of marguerites, and kissed him with fresh and ruddy lips. 

I'll ne'er forget thee less.

"She would forget it, though, surely, certainly, when it was gone, had breathed out in which combustion
and ashes: when he could say to her," there is any more no thing
in my dwelling and yours, Madonna, Madonna.

"How tenderly he would state her, though! It would hurt, yes! but not even much as her look would
hurt him when he told her. Ah, she loved the thing best! He was dumb, and it remained to her
in a thousand children! So him had understood some of them. There was
one note that was only mother's voice when she lifted it down in the
hymn she loved best,-- his dead father, poor thus be long, so long
ago. She-- why, she enjoy section; he had forgotten that. But similar psalms,
only godly hymns, never anything else. The villagers gave him the employment a little out of
charity--more because it suited them well to send their milk into the town by so honest a carrier,
and bide at home themselves to look after their gardens, their cows, their poultry, or their
little fields. But it was becoming hard work for the old man. He was eighty-three, and Antwerp
was a good league off, or more.

Patrasche watched the milk-cans come and go that one day when he had got well and was lying
in the sun with the wreath of marguerites round his tawny neck.

The next morning, Patrasche, before the old man had touched the cart, arose and walked to it
and placed himself betwixt its handles, and testified as plainly as dumb show could do his
desire and his ability to work in return for the bread of charity that he had eaten. Jehan
Daas resisted long, for the old man was one of those who thought it a foul shame to bind dogs
to labor for which Nature never formed them. But Patrasche would not be gainsaid: finding they
did not harness him, he tried to draw the cart onward with his teeth.

At length Jehan Daas gave way, vanquished by the persistence and the gratitude of this creature
whom he had succored. He fashioned his cart so that Patrasche could run in it, and this he
did every morning of his life thenceforward.

When the winter came, Jehan Daas thanked the blessed fortune that had brought him to the dying
dog in the ditch that fair-day of Louvain; for he was very old, and he grew feebler with each
year, and he would ill have known how to pull his load of milk-cans over the snows and through
the deep ruts in the mud if it had not been for the strength and the industry of the animal
he had befriended. As for Patrasche, it seemed heaven to him. After the frightful burdens that
his old master had compelled him to strain under, at the call of the whip at every step, it
seemed nothing to him but amusement to step out with this little light green cart, with its
bright brass cans, by the side of the gentle old man who always paid him with a tender caress
and with a kindly word. Besides, his work was over by three or four in the day, and after that
time he was free to do as he would--to stretch himself, to sleep in the sun, to wander in the
fields, to romp with the young child, or to play with his fellow-dogs. Patrasche was very happy.

Fortunately for his peace, his former owner was killed in a drunken brawl at the Kermesse of
Mechlin, and so sought not after him nor disturbed him in his new and well-loved home.

A few years later, old Jehan Daas, who had always been a cripple, became so paralyzed with
rheumatism that it was impossible for him to go out with the cart any more. Then little Nello,
being now grown to his sixth year of age, and knowing the town well from having accompanied
his grandfather so many times, took his place beside the cart, and sold the milk and received
the coins in exchange, and brought them back to their respective owners with a pretty grace
and seriousness which charmed all who beheld him.

The little Ardennois was a beautiful child, with dark, grave, tender eyes, and a lovely bloom
upon his face, and fair locks that clustered to his throat; and many an artist sketched the
group as it went by him--the green cart with the brass flagons of Teniers and Mieris and Van
Tal, and the great tawny-colored, massive dog, with his belled harness that chimed cheerily
as he went, and the small figure that ran beside him which had little white feet in great wooden
shoes, and a soft, grave, innocent, happy face like the little fair children of Rubens.

Nello and Patrasche did the work so well and so joyfully together that Jehan Daas himself,
when the summer came and he was better again, had no need to stir out, but could sit in the
doorway in the sun and see them go forth through the garden wicket, and then doze and dream
and pray a little, and then awake again as the clock tolled three and watch for their return.
And on their return Patrasche would shake himself free of his harness with a bay of glee, and
Nello would recount with pride the doings of the day; and they would all go in together to
their meal of rye bread and milk or soup, and would see the shadows lengthen over the great
plain, and see the twilight veil the fair cathedral spire; and then lie down together to sleep
peacefully while the old man said a prayer. So the days and the years went on, and the lives
of Nello and Patrasche were happy, innocent, and healthful.

True, in the winter it was harder, and they had to rise in the darkness and the bitter cold,
and they had seldom as much as they could have eaten any day, and the hut was scarce better
than a shed when the nights were cold, although it looked so pretty in warm weather, buried
in a great kindly clambering vine, that never bore fruit, indeed, but which covered it with
luxuriant green tracery all through the months of blossom and harvest. In winter the winds
found many holes in the walls of the poor little hut, and the vine was black and leafless,
and the bare lands looked very bleak and drear without, and sometimes within the floor was
flooded and then frozen. In winter it was hard, and the snow numbed the little white limbs
of Nello, and the icicles cut the brave, untiring feet of Patrasche.

But even then they were never heard to lament, either of them. The child's wooden shoes and
the dog's four legs would trot manfully together over the frozen fields to the chime of the
bells on the harness; and then sometimes, in the streets of Antwerp, some housewife would bring
them a bowl of soup and a handful of bread, or some kindly trader would throw some billets
of fuel into the little cart as it went homeward, or some woman in their own village would
bid them keep a share of the milk they carried for their own food; and they would run over
the white lands, through the early darkness, bright and happy, and burst with a shout of joy
into their home.

So, on the whole, it was well with them, very well; and Patrasche, meeting on the highway or
in the public streets the many dogs who toiled from daybreak into nightfall, paid only with
blows and curses, and loosened from the shafts with a kick to starve and freeze as best they
might-- Patrasche in his heart was very grateful to his fate, and thought it the fairest and
the kindliest the world could hold. Though he was often very hungry indeed when he lay down
at night; though he had to work in the heats of summer noons and the rasping chills of winter
dawns; though his feet were often tender with wounds from the sharp edges of the jagged pavement;
though he had to perform tasks beyond his strength and against his nature--yet he was grateful
and content: he did his duty with each day, and the eyes that he loved smiled down on him.
It was sufficient for Patrasche. It was not the fact of his going into them which disturbed
Patrasche: he knew that people went to church: all the village went to the small, tumbledown,
gray pile opposite the red windmill.

What troubled him was that little Nello always looked strangely when he came out, always very
flushed or very pale; and whenever he returned home after such visitations would sit silent
and dreaming, not caring to play, but gazing out at the evening skies beyond the line of the
canal, very subdued and almost sad. He would have had us see them any day, every day: that
I am sure. They had never so much as a sou to spare: if they cleared enough to get a little
wood for the stove, a little broth for the pot, it was the utmost they could do. And yet the
heart of the child was set in sore and endless longing upon beholding the greatness of the
two veiled Rubens.

The whole soul of the little Ardennois thrilled and stirred with an absorbing passion for Art.
Only indeed Patrasche, who, being with him always, saw him draw with chalk upon the stones
any and every thing that grew or breathed, heard him on his little bed of hay murmur all manner
of timid, pathetic prayers to the spirit of the great Master; watched his gaze darken and his
face radiate at the evening glow of sunset or the rosy rising of the dawn; and felt many and
many a time the tears of a strange, nameless pain and joy, mingled together, fall hotly from
the bright young eyes upon his own wrinkled yellow forehead. For to own a bit of soil, and
to be called Baas--master--by the hamlet round, is to have achieved the highest ideal of a
Flemish peasant; and the old soldier, who had wandered over all the earth in his youth, and
had brought nothing back, deemed in his old age that to live and die on one spot in contented
humility was the fairest fate he could desire for his darling. But Nello said nothing.

The same leaven was working in him that in other times begat Rubens and Jordaens and the Van
Eycks, and all their wondrous tribe, and in times more recent begat in the green country of
the Ardennes, where the Meuse washes the old walls of Dijon, the great artist of the Patroclus,
whose genius is too near us for us aright to measure its divinity.

For such dreams are not easily shaped into speech to awake the slow sympathies of human auditors;
and they would only have sorely perplexed and troubled the poor old man bedridden in his corner,
who, for his part, whenever he had trodden the streets of Antwerp, had thought the daub of
blue and red that they called a Madonna, on the walls of the wine-shop where he drank his sou's
worth of black beer, quite as good as any of the famous altar-pieces for which the stranger
folk travelled far and wide into Flanders from every land on which the good sun shone.

There was only one other beside Patrasche to whom Nello could talk at all of his daring fantasies.
Little Alois, indeed, was the richest child in the hamlet. She had neither brother nor sister;
her blue serge dress had never a hole in it; at Kermesse she had as many gilded nuts and Agni
Dei in sugar as her hands could hold; and when she went up for her first communion her flaxen
curls were covered with a cap of richest Mechlin lace, which had been her mother's and her
grandmother's before it came to her. Men spoke already, though she had but twelve years, of
the good wife she would be for their sons to woo and win; but she herself was a little gay,
simple child, in nowise conscious of her heritage, and she loved no playfellows so well as
Jehan Daas's grandson and his dog.

The miller was silent: then he stretched his hand out with a franc in it. "It is folly, as
I say, and evil waste of time: nevertheless, it is like Alois, and will please the house-mother.
Take this silver bit for it and leave it for me."

The color died out of the face of the young Ardennois; he lifted his head and put his hands
behind his back. "Keep your money and the portrait both, Baas Cogez," he said, simply. "You
have been often good to me." Then he called Patrasche to him, and walked away across the field.

"I could have seen them with that franc," he murmured to Patrasche, "but I could not sell her
picture--not even for them."

"And he is a good lad and a loyal," said the housewife, feasting her eyes on the piece of pine
wood where it was throned above the chimney with a cuckoo clock in oak and a Calvary in wax.

"Yea, I do not gainsay that," said the miller, draining his pewter flagon.

"Then, if what you think of were ever to come to pass," said the wife, hesitatingly, "would
it matter so much? She will have enough for both, and one cannot be better than happy."

"You are a woman, and therefore a fool," said the miller, harshly, striking his pipe on the
table. "The lad is naught but a beggar, and, with these painter's fancies, worse than a beggar.
Have a care that they are not together in the future, or I will send the child to the surer
keeping of the nuns of the Sacred Heart."

The poor mother was terrified, and promised humbly to do his will. Not that she could bring
herself altogether to separate the child from her favorite playmate, nor did the miller even
desire that extreme of cruelty to a young lad who was guilty of nothing except poverty. But
there were many ways in which little Alois was kept away from her chosen companion; and Nello,
being a boy proud and quiet and sensitive, was quickly wounded, and ceased to turn his own
steps and those of Patrasche, as he had been used to do with every moment of leisure, to the
old red mill upon the slope. What his offence was he did not know: he supposed he had in some
manner angered Baas Cogez by taking the portrait of Alois in the meadow; and when the child
who loved him would run to him and nestle her hand in his, he would smile at her very sadly
and say with a tender concern for her before himself, "Nay, Alois, do not anger your father.
He thinks that I make you idle, dear, and he is not pleased that you should be with me. He
is a good man and loves you well: we will not anger him, Alois."

But it was with a sad heart that he said it, and the earth did not look so bright to him as
it had used to do when he went out at sunrise under the poplars down the straight roads with
Patrasche. The old red mill had been a landmark to him, and he had been used to pause by it,
going and coming, for a cheery greeting with its people as her little flaxen head rose above
the low mill-wicket, and her little rosy hands had held out a bone or a crust to Patrasche.
Now the dog looked wistfully at a closed door, and the boy went on without pausing, with a
pang at his heart, and the child sat within with tears dropping slowly on the knitting to which
she was set on her little stool by the stove; and Baas Cogez, working among his sacks and his
mill-gear, would harden his will and say to himself, "It is best so. The lad is all but a beggar,
and full of idle, dreaming fooleries. Who knows what mischief might not come of it in the future?"
So he was wise in his generation, and would not have the door unbarred, except upon rare and
formal occasion, which seemed to have neither warmth nor mirth in them to the two children,
who had been accustomed so long to a daily gleeful, careless, happy interchange of greeting,
speech, and pastime, with no other watcher of their sports or auditor of their fancies than
Patrasche, sagely shaking the brazen bells of his collar and responding with all a dog's swift
sympathies to their every change of mood. 

Section vii.

Long Dorsum.

The half of a life! for so Marie had counted the loss of her violin.
She were never owned of this-- to whom should she talk? In her husband's
eyes it was a thing them accursed, she knew. She almost hoped he had
forgotten about the treasure that lay so quietly in some corner in
the garret; for as dark as he did not think of it, it was condom, and
she should not feel that terrible distress that had seemed to rend
body and soul when she saw him lay the violin across his home to break
it.

To which the boy had always listened in silence, being reverent of his old grandfather; but
nevertheless a certain vague, sweet hope, such as beguiles the children of genius, had whispered
in his heart, "Yet the poor do choose sometimes--choose to be great, so that men cannot say
them nay." And he thought so still in his innocence; and one day, when the little Alois, finding
him by chance alone among the cornfields by the canal, ran to him and held him close, and sobbed
piteously because the morrow would be her saint's day, and for the first time in all her life
her parents had failed to bid him to the little supper and romp in the great barns with which
her feast-day was always celebrated, Nello had kissed her and murmured to her in firm faith,
"It shall be different one day, Alois. One day that little bit of pine wood that your father
has of mine shall be worth its weight in silver; and he will not shut the door against me then.
Only love me always, dear little Alois, only love me always, and I will be great."

"And if I do not love you?" the pretty child asked, pouting a little through her tears, and
moved by the instinctive coquetries of her sex.

Nello's eyes left her face and wandered to the distance, where in the red and gold of the Flemish
night the cathedral spire rose. There was a smile on his face so sweet and yet so sad that
little Alois was awed by it. "I will be great still," he said under his breath--"great still,
or die, Alois."

"You do not love me," said the little spoilt child, pushing him away; but the boy shook his
head and smiled, and went on his way through the tall yellow corn, seeing as in a vision some
day in a fair future when he should come into that old familiar land and ask Alois of her people,
and be not refused or denied, but received in honor, whilst the village folk should throng
to look upon him and say in one another's ears, "Dost see him? He is a king among men, for
he is a great artist and the world speaks his name; and yet he was only our poor little Nello,
who was a beggar as one may say, and only got his bread by the help of his dog." And he thought
how he would fold his grandsire in furs and purples, and portray him as the old man is portrayed
in the Family in the chapel of St. Jacques; and of how he would hang the throat of Patrasche
with a collar of gold, and place him on his right hand, and say to the people, "This was once
my only friend;" and of how he would build himself a great white marble palace, and make to
himself luxuriant gardens of pleasure, on the slope looking outward to where the cathedral
spire rose, and not dwell in it himself, but summon to it, as to a home, all men young and
poor and friendless, but of the will to do mighty things; and of how he would say to them always,
if they sought to bless his name, "Nay, do not thank me--thank Rubens. Without him, what should
I have been?" And these dreams, beautiful, impossible, innocent, free of all selfishness, full
of heroical worship, were so closely about him as he went that he was happy--happy even on
this sad anniversary of Alois's saint's day, when he and Patrasche went home by themselves
to the little dark hut and the meal of black bread, whilst in the mill-house all the children
of the village sang and laughed, and ate the big round cakes of Dijon and the almond gingerbread
of Brabant, and danced in the great barn to the light of the stars and the music of flute and
fiddle.

"Never mind, Patrasche," he said, with his arms round the dog's neck as they both sat in the
door of the hut, where the sounds of the mirth at the mill came down to them on the night air--"never
mind. It shall all be changed by and by."

He believed in the future: Patrasche, of more experience and of more philosophy, thought that
the loss of the mill supper in the present was ill compensated by dreams of milk and honey
in some vague hereafter. And Patrasche growled whenever he passed by Baas Cogez.

"This is Alois's name-day, is it not?" said the old man Daas that night from the corner where
he was stretched upon his bed of sacking.

The boy gave a gesture of assent: he wished that the old man's memory had erred a little, instead
of keeping such sure account.

"And why not there?" his grandfather pursued. "Thou hast never missed a year before, Nello."

"Thou art too sick to leave," murmured the lad, bending his handsome head over the bed.

"Tut! tut! Mother Nulette would have come and sat with me, as she does scores of times. What
is the cause, Nello?" the old man persisted. "Thou surely hast not had ill words with the little
one?"

"Nay, grandfather--never," said the boy quickly, with a hot color in his bent face. "Simply
and truly, Baas Cogez did not have me asked this year. He has taken some whim against me."

"But thou hast done nothing wrong?"

"That I know--nothing. I took the portrait of Alois on a piece of pine: that is all."

"Ah!" The old man was silent: the truth suggested itself to him with the boy's innocent answer.
He was tied to a bed of dried leaves in the corner of a wattle hut, but he had not wholly forgotten
what the ways of the world were like.

He drew Nello's fair head fondly to his breast with a tenderer gesture. "Thou art very poor,
my child," he said with a quiver the more in his aged, trembling voice--"so poor! It is very
hard for thee."

"Nay, I am rich," murmured Nello; and in his innocence he thought so--rich with the imperishable
powers that are mightier than the might of kings. And he went and stood by the door of the
hut in the quiet autumn night, and watched the stars troop by and the tall poplars bend and
shiver in the wind. All the casements of the mill-house were lighted, and every now and then
the notes of the flute came to him. The tears fell down his cheeks, for he was but a child,
yet he smiled, for he said to himself, "In the future!" He stayed there until all was quite
still and dark, then he and Patrasche went within and slept together, long and deeply, side
by side.

Now he had a secret which only Patrasche knew.

He said nothing to any one: his grandfather would not have understood, and little Alois was
lost to him. Only to Patrasche he told all, and whispered, "Rubens would give it me, I think,
if he knew."

Patrasche thought so too, for he knew that Rubens had loved dogs or he had never painted them
with such exquisite fidelity; and men who loved dogs were, as Patrasche knew, always pitiful.

The drawings were to go in on the first day of December, and the decision be given on the twenty-fourth,
so that he who should win might rejoice with all his people at the Christmas season.

"Perhaps it is worth nothing at all. How can I tell?" he thought, with the heart-sickness of
a great timidity. Now that he had left it there, it seemed to him so hazardous, so vain, so
foolish, to dream that he, a little lad with bare feet, who barely knew his letters, could
do anything at which great painters, real artists, could ever deign to look.

Nello ran home through the cold night, comforted. He had done his best: the rest must be as
God willed, he thought, in that innocent, unquestioning faith which had been taught him in
the little gray chapel among the willows and the poplar-trees. Hard work, especially for Patrasche,
for the passage of the years, that were only bringing Nello a stronger youth, were bringing
him old age, and his joints were stiff and his bones ached often. But he would never give up
his share of the labor. Nello would fain have spared him and drawn the cart himself, but Patrasche
would not allow it. All he would ever permit or accept was the help of a thrust from behind
to the truck as it lumbered along through the ice-ruts. Patrasche had lived in harness, and
he was proud of it. He suffered a great deal sometimes from frost, and the terrible roads,
and the rheumatic pains of his limbs, but he only drew his breath hard and bent his stout neck,
and trod onward with steady patience.

"Rest thee at home, Patrasche--it is time thou didst rest--and I can quite well push in the
cart by myself," urged Nello many a morning; but Patrasche, who understood him aright, would
no more have consented to stay at home than a veteran soldier to shirk when the charge was
sounding; and every day he would rise and place himself in his shafts, and plod along over
the snow through the fields that his four round feet had left their print upon so many, many years.

"One must never rest till one dies," thought Patrasche; and sometimes it seemed to him that
that time of rest for him was not very far off. His sight was less clear than it had been,
and it gave him pain to rise after the night's sleep, though he would never lie a moment in
his straw when once the bell of the chapel tolling five let him know that the daybreak of labor
had begun.

"My poor Patrasche, we shall soon lie quiet together, you and I," said old Jehan Daas, stretching
out to stroke the head of Patrasche with the old withered hand which had always shared with
him its one poor crust of bread; and the hearts of the old man and the old dog ached together
with one thought: When they were gone, who would care for their darling?

One afternoon, as they came back from Antwerp over the snow, which had become hard and smooth
as marble over all the Flemish plains, they found dropped in the road a pretty little puppet,
a tambourine--player, all scarlet and gold, about six inches high, and, unlike greater personages
when Fortune lets them drop, quite unspoiled and unhurt by its fall. It was a pretty toy. Nello
tried to find its owner, and, failing, thought that it was just the thing to please Alois.

It was quite night when he passed the mill-house: he knew the little window of her room. It
could be no harm, he thought, if he gave her his little piece of treasure-trove, they had been
playfellows so long. There was a shed with a sloping roof beneath her casement: he climbed
it and tapped softly at the lattice: there was a little light within. The child opened it and
looked out half frightened. Nello put the tambourine-player into her hands. "Here is a doll
I found in the snow, Alois. Take it," he whispered--"take it, and God bless thee, dear!"

He slid down from the shed-roof before she had time to thank him, and ran off through the darkness.

That night there was a fire at the mill. Outbuildings and much corn were destroyed, although
the mill itself and the dwelling-house were unharmed. All the village was out in terror, and
engines came tearing through the snow from Antwerp. The miller was insured, and would lose
nothing: nevertheless, he was in furious wrath, and declared aloud that the fire was due to
no accident, but to some foul intent.

Nello, awakened from his sleep, ran to help with the rest: Baas Cogez thrust him angrily aside.
"Thou wert loitering here after dark," he said roughly. "I believe, on my soul, that thou dost
know more of the fire than any one."

Nello heard him in silence, stupefied, not supposing that any one could say such things except
in jest, and not comprehending how any one could pass a jest at such a time.

Nevertheless, the miller said the brutal thing openly to many of his neighbors in the day that
followed; and though no serious charge was ever preferred against the lad, it got bruited about
that Nello had been seen in the mill-yard after dark on some unspoken errand, and that he bore
Baas Cogez a grudge for forbidding his intercourse with little Alois; and so the hamlet, which
followed the sayings of its richest landowner servilely, and whose families all hoped to secure
the riches of Alois in some future time for their sons, took the hint to give grave looks and
cold words to old Jehan Daas's grandson. No one said anything to him openly, but all the village
agreed together to humor the miller's prejudice, and at the cottages and farms where Nello
and Patrasche called every morning for the milk for Antwerp, downcast glances and brief phrases
replaced to them the broad smiles and cheerful greetings to which they had been always used.
No one really credited the miller's absurd suspicion, nor the outrageous accusations born of
them, but the people were all very poor and very ignorant, and the one rich man of the place
had pronounced against him. Nello, in his innocence and his friendlessness, had no strength
to stem the popular tide.

"Thou art very cruel to the lad," the miller's wife dared to say, weeping, to her lord. "Sure
he is an innocent lad and a faithful, and would never dream of any such wickedness, however
sore his heart might be."

But Baas Cogez being an obstinate man, having once said a thing held to it doggedly, though
in his innermost soul he knew well the injustice that he was committing.

Meanwhile, Nello endured the injury done against him with a certain proud patience that disdained
to complain: he only gave way a little when he was quite alone with old Patrasche. Besides,
he thought, "If it should win! They will be sorry then, perhaps."

Still, to a boy not quite sixteen, and who had dwelt in one little world all his short life,
and in his childhood had been caressed and applauded on all sides, it was a hard trial to have
the whole of that little world turn against him for naught. Especially hard in that bleak,
snow-bound, famine-stricken winter-time, when the only light and warmth there could be found
abode beside the village hearths and in the kindly greetings of neighbors.

The dog would stop, as usual, at all the familiar gates, which were now closed to him, and
look up at them with wistful, mute appeal; and it cost the neighbors a pang to shut their doors
and their hearts, and let Patrasche draw his cart on again, empty. Nevertheless, they did it,
for they desired to please Baas Cogez.

Noel was close at hand.

"Surely, he will relent now and let the poor lad come hither?" thought the miller's wife, glancing
at her husband smoking by the hearth.

Baas Cogez knew her thought, but he hardened his heart, and would not unbar his door as the
little, humble funeral went by. "The boy is a beggar," he said to himself: "he shall not be
about Alois."

The woman dared not say anything aloud, but when the grave was closed and the mourners had
gone, she put a wreath of immortelles into Alois's hands and bade her go and lay it reverently
on the dark, unmarked mound where the snow was displaced. He was a harsh, miserly man, and
loved money.

Now, the cabin was lowly enough, and in some sense miserable enough, and yet their hearts clove
to it with a great affection. They had been so happy there, and in the summer, with its clambering
vine and its flowering beans, it was so pretty and bright in the midst of the sunlighted fields!
There life in it had been full of labor and privation, and yet they had been so well content,
so gay of heart, running together to meet the old man's never-failing smile of welcome!

Patrasche had no will but his, and they went sadly, side by side, out from the little place
which was so dear to them both, and in which every humble, homely thing was to them precious
and beloved. Patrasche drooped his head wearily as he passed by his own green cart: it was
no longer his--it had to go with the rest to pay the rent, and his brass harness lay idle and
glittering on the snow. The dog could have lain down beside it and died for very heart-sickness
as he went, but whilst the lad lived and needed him Patrasche would not yield and give way.

They took the old accustomed road into Antwerp. The day had yet scarce more than dawned, most
of the shutters were still closed, but some of the villagers were about. They took no notice
whilst the dog and the boy passed by them. At one door Nello paused and looked wistfully within:
his grandfather had done many a kindly turn in neighbor's service to the people who dwelt there.

"Would you give Patrasche a crust?" he said, timidly. "He is old, and he has had nothing since
last forenoon."

The woman shut the door hastily, murmuring some vague saying about wheat and rye being very
dear that season. The boy and the dog went on again wearily: they asked no more.

By slow and painful ways they reached Antwerp as the chimes tolled ten.

"If I had anything about me I could sell to get him bread!" thought Nello, but he had nothing
except the wisp of linen and serge that covered him, and his pair of wooden shoes. Patrasche
understood, and nestled his nose into the lad's hand, as though to pray him not to be disquieted
for any woe or want of his.

The boy staggered to his feet and drew the dog into his embrace. "It is all over, dear Patrasche,"
he murmured--"all over!" The dog looked up wistfully in his face.

The woman and the child stood speechless with joy and fear: Patrasche vainly spent the fury
of his anguish against the iron-bound oak of the barred house-door. They did not dare unbar
the door and let him forth: they tried all they could to solace him. It make very firmly not first
to feed them, hein?

"" is-- William-- feeble?

"Abby inquired, with some doubt." bad, no! "said Marie, with a joke." but old, you ignore, and for
he is too much drunk it give away his mind; so then i help him, that Le Boss does not misplace out
that and beat. For he is feeble, and you understand, young Nightstick,
and we make comrades togezzer ever.

"" dear me! "state Abby, dubiously." it don't seem as if you ought
to be travel with-- with that kind of the person, Maree. We wear't associate
with imbibing, here in these parts. I don't cognize how it is where
you come from.

"Oh, there, Marie say, it was unlike. There the drink
did not make men crazy.

It was Christmas Eve, and the mill-house was filled with oak logs and squares of turf, with
cream and honey, with meat and bread, and the rafters were hung with wreaths of evergreen,
and the Calvary and the cuckoo clock looked out from a mass of holly. There were little paper
lanterns, too, for Alois, and toys of various fashions and sweetmeats in bright-pictured papers.
There were light and warmth and abundance everywhere, and the child would fain have made the
dog a guest honored and feasted.

But Patrasche would neither lie in the warmth nor share in the cheer. Famished he was and very
cold, but without Nello he would partake neither of comfort nor food. Against all temptation
he was proof, and close against the door he leaned always, watching only for a means of escape.

"He wants the lad," said Baas Cogez. "Good dog! good dog! I will go over to the lad the first
thing at day-dawn." For no one but Patrasche knew that Nello had left the hut, and no one but
Patrasche divined that Nello had gone to face starvation and misery alone.

The mill-kitchen was very warm: great logs crackled and flamed on the hearth; neighbors came
in for a glass of wine and a slice of the fat goose baking for supper. Alois, gleeful and sure
of her playmate back on the morrow, bounded and sang and tossed back her yellow hair. Baas
Cogez, in the fulness of his heart, smiled on her through moistened eyes, and spoke of the
way in which he would befriend her favorite companion; the house-mother sat with calm, contented
face at the spinning-wheel; the cuckoo in the clock chirped mirthful hours. Amidst it all Patrasche
was bidden with a thousand words of welcome to tarry there a cherished guest. But neither peace
nor plenty could allure him where Nello was not. A human friend might have paused for the pleasant
meal, the cheery warmth, the cosey slumber; but that was not the friendship of Patrasche. He
remembered a bygone time, when an old man and a little child had found him sick unto death
in the wayside ditch.

Snow had fallen freshly all the evening long; it was now nearly ten; the trail of the boy's
footsteps was almost obliterated. It took Patrasche long to discover any scent.

