  {Footnote 1} The celestial angels immeasurably surpass in
  wisdom the spiritual angels (n. 2718, 9995). The nature of the
  distinction between celestial angels and spiritual angels (n.
  2088, 2669, 2708, 2715, 3235, 3240, 4788, 7068, 8521, 9277,
  10295).

  {Footnote 2} The celestial angels do not reason about truths of
  faith, because they perceive them in themselves; but the
  spiritual angels reason about them whether they are true or not
  (n. 202, 337, 597, 607, 784, 1121, 1384, 1898, 1919, 3246,
  4448, 7680, 7877, 8780, 9277, 10786).

26. It has been said that these angels have wisdom and glory above others for the reason that
they have received and continue to receive Divine truths at once in their life. For as soon
as they hear Divine truths, they will and do them, instead of storing them up in the memory
and afterwards considering whether they are true. They know at once by influx from the Lord
whether the truth they hear is true; for the Lord flows directly into man's willing, but mediately
through his willing into his thinking. Or what is the same, the Lord flows directly into good,
but mediately through good into truth.{1} That is called good which belongs to the will and
action therefrom, while that is called truth that belongs to the memory and to the thought
therefrom. Moreover, every truth is turned into good and implanted in love as soon as it enters
into the will; but so long as truth remains in the memory and in the thought therefrom it does
not become good, nor does it live, nor is it appropriated to man, since man is a man from his
will and understanding therefrom, and not from his understanding separated from his will.{2}

  {Footnote 1} The Lord's influx is into good and through good
  into truth, and not the reverse; thus into the will and through
  that into the understanding, and not the reverse (n. 5482,
  5649, 6027, 8685, 8701, 10153).

  {Footnote 2} The will of man is the very being [esse] of his
  life, and the receptacle of the good of love, while his
  understanding is the outgo [existere] of his life therefrom,
  and the receptacle of the truth and good of faith (n. 3619,
  5002, 9282). Thus the will's life is the chief life of man, and
  the life of the understanding goes forth therefrom (n. 585,
  590, 3619, 7342, 8885, 9282, 10076, 10109, 10110). Whatever is
  received by the will comes to be the life, and is appropriated
  to man (n. 3161, 9386, 9393). Man is a man from his will and
  his understanding therefrom (n. 8911, 9069, 9071, 10076, 10109,
  10110). Moreover, everyone who wills and understands rightly is
  loved and valued by others, while he that understands rightly
  and does not will rightly is rejected and despised (n. 8911,
  10076). Also, after death man remains such as his will and his
  understanding therefrom have been, while the things that
  pertain to the understanding and not also to the will then
  vanish, because they are not in the man (n. 9069, 9071, 9282,
  9386, 10153).

27. Because of this difference between the angels of the celestial kingdom and the angels of
the spiritual kingdom they are not together, and have no interaction with each other. They
are able to communicate only through intermediate angelic societies, which are called celestial-spiritual.
Through these the celestial kingdom flows into the spiritual;{1} and from this it comes to
pass that although heaven is divided into two kingdoms it nevertheless makes one. The Lord
always provides such intermediate angels through whom there is communication and conjunction.

  {Footnote 1} Between the two kingdoms there is communication
  and conjunction by mean's of angelic societies which are called
  celestial-spiritual (n. 4047, 6435, 8796, 8802). The influx of
  the Lord through the celestial kingdom into the spiritual (n.
  3969, 6366).

28. As the angels of these two kingdoms will be fully treated of in what follows, particulars
are here omitted.

29. V. THERE ARE THREE HEAVENS.

There are three heavens, entirely distinct from each other, an inmost or third, a middle or
second, and an outmost or first. These have a like order and relation to each other as the
highest part of man, or his head, the middle part, or body, and the lowest, or feet; or as
the upper, the middle, and the lower stories of a house. In the same order is the Divine that
goes forth and descends from the Lord; consequently heaven, from the necessity of order, is
threefold.

30. The interiors of man, which belong to his mind and disposition, are also in like order.
He has an inmost, a middle, and an outmost part; for when man was created all things of Divine
order were brought together in him, so that he became Divine order in form, and consequently
a heaven in miniature.{1} For this reason also man, as regards his interiors, has communication
with the heavens and comes after death among the angels, either among those of the inmost,
or of the middle, or of the outmost heaven, in accordance with his reception of Divine good
and truth from the Lord during his life in the world.

  {Footnote 1} All things of Divine order are brought together in
  man, and by creation man is Divine order in form (n. 3628,
  4219, 4220, 4223, 4523, 4524, 5114, 5168, 6013, 6057, 6605,
  6626, 9706, 10156, 10472). In man the internal man was formed
  after the image of heaven, and the external after the image of
  the world, and this is why man was called by the ancients a
  microcosm (n. 3628, 4523, 5115, 6013, 6057, 9279, 9706, 10156,
  10472). Thus man is respect to his interiors is by creation a
  heaven in least form after the image of the greatest; and such
  also man becomes when he has been created anew or regenerated
  by the Lord (n. 911, 1900, 1928, 3624-3631, 3634, 3884, 4041,
  4279, 4523, 4524, 4625, 6013, 6057, 9279, 9632).

31. The Divine that flows in from the Lord and is received in the third or inmost heaven is
called celestial, and in consequence the angels there are called celestial angels; the Divine
that flows in from the Lord and is received in the second or middle heaven is called spiritual,
and in consequence the angels there are called spiritual angels; while the Divine that flows
in from the Lord and is received in the outmost or first heaven is called natural; but as the
natural of that heaven is not like the natural of the world, but has the spiritual and the
celestial within it, that heaven is called the spiritual-natural and the celestial-natural,
and in consequence the angels there are called spiritual-natural and celestial-natural.{1}
Those who receive influx from the middle or second heaven, which is the spiritual heaven, are
called spiritual-natural; and those who receive influx from the third or inmost heaven, which
is the celestial heaven, are called celestial-natural. The spiritual-natural angels and the
celestial-natural angels are distinct from each other; nevertheless they constitute one heaven,
because they are in one degree.

  {Footnote 1} There are three heavens, inmost, middle, and
  outmost, or third, second, and first (n. 684 9594, 10270).
  Goods therein also follow in triple order (n. 4938, 4939, 9992,
  10005, 10017). The good of the inmost or third heaven is called
  celestial, the good of the middle or second is called
  spiritual, and the good of the outmost or first,
  spiritual-natural (n. 4279, 4286, 4938, 4939, 9992, 10005,
  10017, 10068).

32. In each heaven there is an internal and an external; those in the internal are called there
internal angels, while those in the external are called external angels. The internal and the
external in the heavens, or in each heaven, hold the same relation as the voluntary and intellectual
in man-the internal corresponding to the voluntary, and the external to the intellectual. Everything
voluntary has its intellectual; one cannot exist without the other. The voluntary may be compared
to a flame and the intellectual to the light therefrom.

33. Let it be clearly understood that with the angels it is the interiors that cause them to
be in one heaven or another; for as their interiors are more open to the Lord they are in a
more interior heaven. There are three degrees of interiors in each angel and spirit, and also
in man. Those in whom the third degree is opened are in the inmost heaven. Those in whom the
second degree is opened, or only the first, are in the middle or in the outmost heaven. The
interiors are opened by reception of Divine good and Divine truth. Those who are affected by
Divine truths and admit them at once into the life, thus into the will and into action therefrom,
are in the inmost or third heaven, and have their place there in accordance with their reception
of good from affection for truth. Those who do not admit truths at once into the will but into
the memory, and thence into the understanding, and from the understanding will and do them,
are in the middle or second heaven.

  {Footnote 1} There are as many degrees of life in man as there
  are heavens, and these are opened after death in accordance
  with his life (n. 3747, 9594). Heaven is in man (n. 3884).
  Therefore he that has received heaven into himself in the
  world, comes into heaven after death (n. 10717).

34. Furthermore, all perfection increases towards interiors and decreases towards exteriors,
since interiors are nearer to the Divine, and are in themselves pure, while exteriors are more
remote from the Divine and are in themselves grosser.{1} Intelligence, wisdom, love, everything
good and the resulting happiness, are what constitute angelic perfection; but not happiness
apart from these, for such happiness is external and not internal. Because in the angels of
the inmost heaven the interiors have been opened in the third degree their perfection immeasurably
surpasses the perfection of angels in the middle heaven, whose interiors have been opened in
the second degree. So the perfection of these angels exceeds in like measure the perfection
of angels of the outmost heaven.

  {Footnote 1} Interiors are more perfect because nearer to the
  Divine (n. 3405, 5146, 5147). In the internal there are
  thousands and thousands of things that appear in the external
  as one general thing (n. 5707). As far as man is raised from
  externals towards interiors, so far he comes into light and
  thus into intelligence and the elevation is like rising out of
  a cloud into clearness (n. 4598, 6183, 6313).

35. Because of this distinction an angel of one heaven cannot go among the angels of another
heaven, that is, no one can ascend from a lower heaven and no one can descend from a higher
heaven. One ascending from a lower heaven is seized with a distress even to anguish, and is
unable to see those who are there, still less to talk with them; while one descending from
a higher heaven is deprived of his wisdom, stammers in his speech, and is in despair. There
were some from the outmost heaven who had not yet been taught that the interiors of angels
are what constitute heaven, and who believed that they might come into a higher heavenly happiness
by simply gaining access to a heaven where higher angels are. These were permitted to enter
among such angels. But when they were there they could see no one, however much they searched,
although there was a great multitude present; for the interiors of the newcomers not having
been opened in the same degree as the interiors of the angels there, their sight was not so
opened. Presently they were seized with such anguish of heart that they scarcely knew whether
they were alive or not. Therefore they hastily betook themselves to the heaven from which they
came, glad to get back among their like, and pledging themselves that they would no longer
covet higher things than were in agreement with their life. Again, I have seen some let down
from a higher heaven; and these were deprived of their wisdom until they no longer knew what
their own heaven was. It is otherwise when, as is often done, angels are raised up by the Lord
out of a lower heaven into a higher that they may behold its glory; for then they are prepared
beforehand, and are encompassed by intermediate angels, through whom they have communication
with those they come among. From all this it is plain that the three heavens are entirely distinct
from each other.

36. Those, however, who are in the same heaven can affiliate with any who are there; but the
delights of such affiliation are measured by the kinships of good they have come into; of which
more will be said in the following chapters.

37. But although the heavens are so distinct that there can be no companionship between the
angels of one heaven and the angels of another, still the Lord joins all the heavens together
by both direct and mediate influx-direct from Himself into all the heavens, and mediate from
one heaven into another.{1} He thus makes the three heavens to be one, and all to be in such
connection from the First to the Last that nothing unconnected is possible. Whatever is not
connected through intermediates with the First can have no permanent existence, but is dissipated
and becomes nothing.{2}

  {Footnote 1} Influx from the Lord is direct from Himself and
  also mediate through on heaven into another, and in like manner
  into man's interiors (n. 6063, 6307, 6472, 9682, 9683). Direct
  influx of the Divine from the Lord (n. 6058, 6474-6478, 8717,
  8728). Mediate influx through the spiritual world into the
  natural world (n. 4067, 6982, 6985, 6996).

  {Footnote 2} All things spring from things prior to themselves,
  thus from a First, and in like inner subsist, because
  subsistence is unceasing springing forth; therefore nothing
  unconnected is possible (n. 3626-3628, 3648, 4523, 4524, 6040,
  6056).

38. Only he who knows how degrees are related to Divine order can comprehend how the heavens
are distinct, or even what is meant by the internal and the external man. Most men in the world
have no other idea of what is interior and what is exterior, or of what is higher and what
is lower, than as something continuous, or coherent by continuity, from purer to grosser. But
the relation of what is interior to what is exterior is discrete, not continuous. Degrees are
of two kinds, those that are continuous and those that are not. Continuous degrees are related
like the degrees of the waning of a light from its bright blaze to darkness, or like the degrees
of the decrease of vision from objects in the light to those in the shade, or like degrees
of purity in the atmosphere from bottom to top. These degrees are determined by distance. [2]
On the other hand, degrees that are not continuous, but discrete, are distinguished like prior
and posterior, like cause and effect, and like what produces and what is produced. Whoever
looks into the matter will see that in each thing and all things in the whole world, whatever
they are, there are such degrees of producing and compounding, that is, from one a second,
and from that a third, and so on. [3] Until one has acquired for himself a perception of these
degrees he cannot possibly understand the differences between the heavens, nor between the
interior and exterior faculties of man, nor the differences between the spiritual world and
the natural world, nor between the spirit of man and his body. So neither can he understand
the nature and source of correspondences and representations, or the nature of influx. Sensual
men do not apprehend these differences, for they make increase and decrease, even according
to these degrees, to be continuous, and are therefore unable to conceive of what is spiritual
otherwise than as a purer natural. And in consequence they remain outside of and a great way
off from intelligence.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Things interior and things exterior are not
  continuous but distinct and discrete according to degrees, and
  each degree has its bounds (n. 3691, 5114, 5145, 8603, 10099).
  One thing is formed from another, and the things so formed are
  not continuously purer and grosser (n. 6326, 6465). Until the
  difference between what is interior and what is exterior
  according to such degrees is perceived, neither the internal
  and external man nor the interior and exterior heavens can be
  clearly understood (n. 5146, 6465, 10099, 10181).

39. Finally, a certain arcanum respecting the angels of the three heavens, which has not hitherto
come into any one's mind, because degrees have not been understood, may be related. In every
angel and also in every man there is an inmost or highest degree, or an inmost or highest something,
into which the Divine of the Lord primarily or proximately flows, and from which it disposes
the other interiors in him that follow in accordance with the degrees of order. This inmost
or highest degree may be called the entrance of the Lord to the angel or man, and His veriest
dwelling-place in them. It is by virtue of this inmost or highest that a man is a man, and
is distinguished from irrational animals, for these do not have it. From this it is that man,
unlike the animals, is capable, in respect to all his interiors which pertain to his mind and
disposition, of being raised up by the Lord to Himself, of believing in the Lord, of being
moved by love to the Lord, and thereby beholding Him, and of receiving intelligence and wisdom,
and speaking from reason. Also, it is by virtue of this that he lives to eternity. But what
is arranged and provided by the Lord in this inmost does not distinctly flow into the perception
of any angel, because it is above his thought and transcends his wisdom.

40. These now are the general truths respecting the three heavens; but in what follows each
heaven will be particularly treated of.

41. VI. THE HEAVENS CONSIST OF INNUMERABLE SOCIETIES.

The angels of each heaven are not together in one place, but are
divided into larger and smaller societies in accordance with the
differences of good of love and of faith in which they are, those who
are in like good forming a single society. These varieties exist
  through truths, which are manifold from which is each one's
  good (n. 3470, 3804, 4149, 6917, 7236). Nevertheless
  they all make one through love from the Lord (n. 457, 3986).

42. Moreover, the angelic societies in the heavens are at a distance from each other as their
goods differ in general and in particular. For in the spiritual world the only ground of distance
is difference in the state of interiors, thus in the heavens difference in the states of love,
those who differ much being far apart, and those who differ but little being but little apart,
and likeness causing them to be together.{1}

  {Footnote 1} All the societies of heaven have a constant
  position in accordance with the differences of their state of
  life, thus in accordance with the differences of love and faith
  (n. 1274, 3638, 3639). Wonderful things in the other life, that
  is, in the spiritual world, respecting distance, situation,
  place space and time (n. 1273-1277).

43. All who are in the same society are arranged in like manner in respect to each other; those
who are more perfect, that is, who excel in good, thus in love, wisdom, and intelligence, being
in the middle; those who are less pre-eminent being round about at a distance in accordance
with the decrease of their perfection. The arrangement is like light diminishing from the middle
to the circumference, those who are in the middle being in the greatest light, and those towards
the circumference in less and less.

44. Like are drawn spontaneously as it were to their like; for with their like they are as
if with their own and at home, but with others they are as if with strangers and abroad; also
when with their like they are in their freedom, and consequently in every delight of life.

45. All this makes clear that all in the heavens are affiliated by good, and are distinguished
according to the quality of the good. Nevertheless it is not the angels who thus affiliate
themselves, but the Lord, from whom the good is. The Lord leads them, conjoins and separates
them, and preserves them in freedom proportionate to their good. Thus He holds everyone in
the life of his love and faith, of his intelligence and wisdom, and the resulting happiness.{1}

  {Footnote 1} All freedom pertains to love and affection, since
  what a man loves, that he does freely (n. 2870, 3158, 8987,
  8990, 9555, 9591). Because freedom pertains to love everyone's
  life and delight is therefrom (n. 2873). Nothing appears as
  one's own, except what is from his freedom (n. 2880). The
  veriest freedom is to be led by the Lord, because one is thus
  led by the love of good and truth (n. 892, 905, 2872, 2886,
  2890-2892, 9096, 9586-9591).

46. Again, all who are in like good, even though they have never seen each other before, know
each other, just as men in the world do their kinsmen, near relations, and friends; and for
the reason that in the other life there are none but spiritual kinships, relationships, and
friendships, thus such as spring from love and faith.{1} This it has sometimes been granted
me to see, when I have been in the spirit, and thus withdrawn from the body, and in the society
of angels. Some of those I then saw seemed as if I had known them from childhood, but others
as if not known at all. Those whom I seemed to have known from childhood were such as were
in a state similar to that of my spirit; but those who seemed unknown were in a dissimilar state.

  {Footnote 1} All nearness, relationship, connections, and as it
  were ties of blood, in heaven are from good and in accordance
  with its agreements and differences (n. 685, 917, 1394, 2739,
  3612, 3815, 4121).

47. All who form the same angelic society resemble each other in countenance in a general way,
but not in particulars. How these general resemblances are related to differences in particulars
can in some measure be seen from like things in the world. It is well known that with every
race there is a certain general resemblance of face and eyes, by which it is known and distinguished
from all other races. This is still more true of different families. In the heavens this is
much more fully the case, because there all the interior affections appear in and shine forth
from the face, for there the face is the external and representative form of those affections.
No one there can have any other face than that of his own affection. It was also shown how
this general likeness is varied in particulars with individuals in the same society. A face
like an angel's appeared to me, and this was varied in accordance with such affections for
good and truth as are in those who belong to a single society. These changes went on for a
long time, and I noticed that the same face in general continued as a ground work, all besides
being what was derived and produced from that. Thus by means of this face the affections of
the whole society were exhibited, whereby the faces of those in it are varied. For, as has
been said above, the faces of angels are the forms of their interiors, thus of the affections
that belong to their love and faith.

48. From this it also comes to pass that an angel who excels in wisdom instantly sees the quality
of another from his face. In heaven no one can conceal his interiors by his expression, or
feign, or really deceive and mislead by craft or hypocrisy. There are hypocrites who are experts
in disguising their interiors and fashioning their exteriors into the form of that good in
which those are who belong to a society, and who thus make themselves appear angels of light;
and these sometimes insinuate themselves into a society; but they cannot stay there long, for
they begin to suffer inward pain and torture, to grow livid in the face, and to become as it
were lifeless. These changes arise from the contrariety of the life that flows in and affects
them. Therefore they quickly cast themselves down into hell where their like are, and no longer
want to ascend. These are such as are meant by the man found among the invited guests at the
feast not clothed with a wedding garment, who was cast out into outer darkness (Matt. 22:11, seq.).

49. All the societies of heaven have communication with one another, though not by open interaction;
for few go out of their own society into another, since going out of their own society is like
going away from themselves or from their own life, and passing into another life which is less
congenial. But all the societies communicate by an extension of the sphere that goes forth
from the life of each. This sphere of the life is the sphere of the affections of love and
faith. This sphere extends itself far and wide into the surrounding societies, and farther
and wider in proportion as the affections are the more interior and perfect.{1} In the measure
of that extension do the angels have intelligence and wisdom. Those that are in the inmost
heaven and in the middle of it have extension into the entire heavens; thus there is a sharing
of all in heaven with each one, and of each one with all.{2} But this extension will be considered
more fully hereafter, where the form of heaven in accord with which the angelic societies are
arranged, and also the wisdom and intelligence of angels, will be treated of, for in accordance
with that form all extension of affections and thoughts proceeds.

  {Footnote 1} A spiritual sphere, which is the sphere of life
  flows out from every man, spirit, and angel, and encompasses
  them (n. 4464, 5179, 7454, 5630). It flows forth from the life
  of their affection and thought (n. 2459, 4464, 6206). These
  spheres extend themselves far into angelic societies in
  accordance with the quality and quantity of their good (n.
  6598-6612, 8063, 5794, 5797).

  {Footnote 2} In the heavens a sharing of all goods is possible
  because heavenly love shares with another everything that is
  its own (n. 549, 550, 1390, 1391, 1399, 10130, 10723).

50. It has been said above that in the heavens there are larger and smaller societies. The
larger consist of myriads of angels, the smaller of some thousands, and the least of some hundreds.
There are also some that dwell apart, house by house as it were, and family by family. Although
these live in this scattered way, they are arranged in order like those who live in societies,
the wiser in the middle and the more simple in the borders. Such are more closely under the
Divine auspices of the Lord, and are the best of the angels.

51. VII. EACH SOCIETY IS A HEAVEN IN A SMALLER FORM, AND EACH ANGEL IN THE SMALLEST FORM.

Each society is a heaven in a smaller form, and each angel in the smallest form, because it
is the good of love and of faith that makes heaven, and this good is in each society of heaven
and in each angel of a society. It does not matter that this good everywhere differs and varies,
it is still the good of heaven; and there is no difference except that heaven has one quality
here and another there. So when any one is raised up into any society of heaven he is said
to come into heaven; and those who are there are said to be in heaven, and each one in his
own. This is known to all in the other life; consequently those standing outside of or beneath
heaven, when they see at a distance companies of angels, say that heaven is in this or that
place. It is comparatively like civil and military officers and attendants in a royal palace
or castle, who, although dwelling apart in their own quarters or chambers above and below,
are yet in the same palace or castle, each in his own position in the royal service. This makes
evident the meaning of the Lord's words, that:

     In His Father's house are many abiding places (John 14:2);

also what is meant by the dwelling-places of heaven, and the heavens of heavens, in the prophets.

52. That each society is a heaven in a smaller form can be seen from this also, that each society
there has a heavenly form like that of heaven as a whole. In the whole heavens those who are
superior to the rest are in the middle, with the less excellent round about in a decreasing
order even to the borders (as stated in a preceding chapter, n. 43). It can be seen also from
this, that the Lord directs all in the whole heaven as if they were a single angel; and the
same is true of all in each society; and as a consequence an entire angelic society sometimes
appears in angelic form like a single angel, as I have been permitted by the Lord to see. Moreover,
when the Lord appears in the midst of the angels He does not appear as one surrounded by many,
but the appearance is as a one, in an angelic form. This is why the Lord is called "an angel"
in the Word, and why an entire society is so called. "Michael," "Gabriel," and "Raphael" are
no other than angelic societies so named from their function.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In the Word the Lord is called an angel (n. 6280,
  6831, 8192, 9303). A whole angelic society is called an angel,
  and Michael and Raphael are angelic societies, so called from
  their functions (n. 8192). The societies of heaven and the
  angels have no names, but are distinguished by the quality of
  their good, and by the idea of it (n. 1705, 1754).

53. As an entire society is a heaven in a smaller form, so an angel is a heaven in the smallest
form. For heaven is not outside of the angel, but is within him, since the interior things
which belong to his mind are arranged into the form of heaven, thus for the reception of all
things of heaven that are outside of him. These also he receives according to the quality of
the good that is in him from the Lord. It is from this that an angel is a heaven.

54. It can in no sense be said that heaven is outside of any one; it is within him. For it
is in accordance with the heaven that is within him that each angel receives the heaven that
is outside of him. This makes clear how greatly misled is he who believes that to come into
heaven is simply to be taken up among angels, without regard to what one's interior life may
be, thus that heaven is granted to each one by mercy apart from means;{1} when, in fact, unless
heaven is within one, nothing of the heaven that is outside can flow in and be received. There
are many spirits who have this idea. Because of this belief they have been taken up into heaven;
but when they came there, because their interior life was contrary to the angelic life, their
intellectual faculties began to be blinded until they became like fools; and they began to
be tortured in their voluntary faculties until they became like madmen. In a word, if those
that have lived wickedly come into heaven they gasp for breath and writhe about, like fishes
out of water in the air, or like animals in ether in an airpump when the air has been exhausted.
From this it can be seen that heaven is not outside of a man, but within him.{2}

  {Footnote 1} Heaven is not granted from mercy apart from means,
  but in accordance with the life; yet everything of the life by
  which man is led to heaven by the Lord belongs to mercy; this
  is what is meant by mercy (n. 5057, 10659). If heaven were
  granted from mercy apart from means it would be granted to all
  (n. 2401). About some evil spirits cast down from heaven who
  believed that heaven was granted to everyone from mercy apart
  from means (n. 4226).

  {Footnote 2} Heaven is in man (n. 3884).

55. As everyone receives the heaven that is outside of him in accordance with the quality of
the heaven that is within him, so in like manner does everyone receive the Lord, since it is
the Divine of the Lord that makes heaven. And for this reason when the Lord becomes manifestly
present in any society His appearance there is in accord with the quality of the good in which
the society is, thus not the same in one society as in another. This diversity is not in the
Lord; it is in the angels who behold Him from their own good, and thus in accordance with their
good. And they are affected by His appearance in accordance with the quality of their love,
those who love Him inmostly being inmostly affected, and those who love Him less being less
affected; while the evil who are outside of heaven are tortured by His presence. When the Lord
is seen in any society He is seen as an angel, but is distinguished from others by the Divine
that shines through.

56. Again, heaven is where the Lord is acknowledged, believed in, and loved. Variety in worship
of the Lord from the variety of good in different societies is not harmful, but beneficial,
for the perfection of heaven is therefrom. This can scarcely be made clear to the comprehension
without employing terms that are in common use in the learned world, and showing by means of
these how unity, that it may be perfect, must be formed from variety. Every whole exists from
various parts, since a whole without constituents is not anything; it has no form, and therefore
no quality. But when a whole exists from various parts, and the various parts are in a perfect
form, in which each attaches itself like a congenial friend to another in series, then the
quality is perfect. So heaven is a whole from various parts arranged in a most perfect form,
for the heavenly form is the most perfect of all forms. That this is the ground of all perfection
is evident from the nature of all beauty, agreeableness and delight, by which the senses and
the mind are affected; for these qualities spring and flow from no other source than the concert
and harmony of many concordant and congenial parts, either coexisting in order or following
in order, and never from a whole without many parts. From this is the saying that variety gives
delight; and the nature of variety, as is known, is what determines the delight. From all this
it can be seen as in a mirror how perfection comes from variety even in heaven. For from the
things that exist in the natural world the things of the spiritual world can be seen as in
a mirror.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Every whole is from the harmony and concert of
  many parts. Otherwise it has no quality (n. 457). From this the
  entire heaven is a whole (n. 457). And for the reason that all
  there have regard to one end, which is the Lord (n. 9828).

57. What has been said of heaven may be said also of the church, for the church is the Lord's
heaven on earth. There are also many churches, each one of which is called a church, and so
far as the good of love and faith reigns therein is a church. Here, too, the Lord out of various
parts forms a unity, that is, one church out of many churches.{1} And the like may be said
of the man of the church in particular that is said of the church in general, namely, that
the church is within man and not outside of him; and that every man is a church in whom the
Lord is present in the good of love and of faith.{2} Again, the same may be said of a man that
has the church in him as of an angel that has heaven in him, namely, that he is a church in
the smallest form, as an angel is a heaven in the smallest form; and furthermore that a man
that has the church in him, equally with an angel, is a heaven. For man was created that he
might come into heaven and become an angel; consequently he that has good from the Lord is
a man-angel.{3} What man has in common with an angel and what he has in contrast with angels
may be mentioned. It is granted to man, equally with the angel, to have his interiors conformed
to the image of heaven, and to become, so far as he is in the good of love and faith, an image
of heaven. But it is granted to man and not to angels to have his exteriors conform to the
image of the world; and so far as he is in good to have the world in him subordinated to heaven
and made to serve heaven.{4} And then the Lord is present in him both in the world and in heaven
just as if he were in his heaven. For the Lord is in His Divine order in both worlds, since
God is order.{5}

  {Footnote 1} If good were the characteristic and essential of
  the church, and not truth apart from good, the church would be
  one (n. 1255, 1316, 2952, 3267, 3445, 3451. 3452). From good
  all churches make one church before the Lord (n. 7396, 9276).

  {Footnote 2} The church is in man, and not outside of him, and
  the church in general is made up of men that have the church in
  them (n. 3884 [6637]).

  {Footnote 4} Man has an internal and an external; hid internal
  is formed by creation after the image of heaven, and his
  external after the image of the world; and for this reason man
  was called by the ancients a microcosm (n. 3628, 4523, 4524,
  5115, 5368, 6013, 6057, 9279, 9706, 10156, 10472). Therefore
  man was created to have the world in him serve heaven, and this
  takes place with the good; but it is the reverse with the evil,
  in whom heaven serves the world (n. 9278, 9283).

  {Footnote 5} The Lord is order, since the Divine good and truth
  that go forth from the Lord make order (n. 1728, 1919, 2011,
  2258, 5110, 5703, 8988, 10336, 10619). Divine truths are laws
  of order (n. 2447, 7995). So far as a man lives according to
  order, that is, so far as he lives in good in accordance with
  Divine truths, he is a man, and the church and heaven are in
  him (n. 4839, 6605, 8513, [8547]).

58. Finally it should be said that he who has heaven in himself has it not only in the largest
or most general things pertaining to him but also in every least or particular thing, and that
these least things repeat in an image the greatest. This comes from the fact that everyone
is his own love, and is such as his ruling love is. That which reigns flows into the particulars
and arranges them, and every where induces a likeness of itself.{1} In the heavens love to
the Lord is the ruling love, for there the Lord is loved above all things. Hence the Lord there
is the All-in-all, flowing into all and each, arranging them, clothing them with a likeness
of Himself, and making it to be heaven wherever He is. This is what makes an angel to be a
heaven in the smallest form, a society to be a heaven in a larger form, and all the societies
taken together a heaven in the largest form. That the Divine of the Lord is what makes heaven,
and that He is the All-in-all, may be seen above (n. 7-12).

  {Footnote 1} The ruling or dominant love with everyone is in
  each thing and all things of his life, thus in each thing and
  all things of his thought and will (n. 6159, 7648, 8067, 8853).
  Man is such as is the ruling quality of his life (n. 987, 1040,
  1568, 3570, 6571, 6935, 6938, 8853-8858, 10076, 10109, 10110,
  10284). When love and faith rule they are in all the
  particulars of man's life, although he does not know it (n.
  8854, 8864, 8865).

59. VIII. ALL HEAVEN IN THE AGGREGATE REFLECTS A SINGLE MAN.

That heaven in its whole complex reflects a single man is an arcanum hitherto unknown in the
world, but fully recognized in the heavens. To know this and the specific and particular things
relating to it is the chief thing in the intelligence of the angels there, and on it many things
depend which without it as their general principle would not enter distinctly and clearly into
the ideas of their minds.

60. That into such a form and image celestial and spiritual things are arranged and joined
cannot be seen by those who have no right idea of spiritual and heavenly things. Such think
that the earthy and material things of which man's outmost nature is composed are what makes
the man; and that apart from these man is not a man. But let them know that it is not from
these that man is a man, but from his ability to understand what is true and to will what is
good. Such understanding and willing are the spiritual and celestial things of which man is
made. Moreover, it is known that everyone's quality is determined by the quality of his understanding
and will; and it can also be known that his earthly body is formed to serve the understanding
and the will in the world, and to skillfully accomplish their uses in the outmost sphere of
nature. For this reason the body by itself can do nothing, but is moved always in entire subservience
to the bidding of the understanding and will, even to the extent that whatever a man thinks
he speaks with his tongue and lips, and whatever he wills he does with his body and limbs,
and thus the understanding and the will are what act, while the body by itself does nothing.
Evidently, then, the things of the understanding and will are what make man; and as these act
into the minutest particulars of the body, as what is internal into what is external, they
must be in a like form, and on this account man is called an internal or spiritual man. Heaven
is such a man in its greatest and most perfect form.

61. Such being the angelic idea of man, the angels give no thought to what a man does with
his body, but only to the will from which the body acts. This they call the man himself, and
the understanding they call the man so far as it acts in unison with the will.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The will of man is the very being [esse] of his
  life, and his understanding is the outgo [existere] of his life
  therefrom (n. 3619, 5002, 9282).

62. The angels, it is true, do not see heaven in its whole complex in the human form, for heaven
as a whole does not come within view of any angel; but remote societies, consisting of many
thousands of angels, they sometimes see as a one in the human form; and from a society, as
from a part, they draw their conclusion as to the general, which is heaven. For in the most
perfect form generals are like the parts, and parts are like the generals, with simply such
a difference as there is between like things of greater or less magnitude; consequently, the
angels say that since the Divine from what is inmost or highest sees all things, so in the
Lord's sight heaven as a whole must be in the human form.

63. Heaven being such, it is ruled by the Lord as a single man is ruled, thus as a one. For
although man, as we know, consists of an innumerable variety of parts, not only as a whole
but also in each part-as a whole, of members, organs, and viscera; and in each part, of series
of fibers, nerves, and blood-vessels, thus of members within members, and of parts within parts-nevertheless,
when he acts he acts as a single man. Such likewise is heaven under the auspices and direction
of the Lord.

64. So many different things in man act as a one, because there is no least thing in him that
does not do something for the general welfare and perform some use. The general performs a
use for its parts, and the parts for the general, for the general is composed of the parts
and the parts constitute the general; therefore they provide for each other, have regard for
each other, and are joined together in such a form that each thing and all things have reference
to the general and its good; thus it is that they act as one. [2] In the heavens there are
like affiliations. Those there are conjoined according to uses in a like form; and consequently
those who do not perform uses for the common good are cast out of heaven as something heterogeneous.
To perform use is to will well to others for the sake of the common good; but to will well
to others not for the sake of the common good but for the sake of self is not to perform use.
These latter are such as love themselves supremely, while the former are such as love the Lord
supremely. Thence it is that those who are in heaven act as a one; and this they do from the
Lord, not from themselves, for they look to Him as the Only One, the source of all things,
and they regard His kingdom as the general, the good of which is to be sought. 6:33).

"To seek His righteousness" means to seek His good.{1} [3] Those who in the world love their
country's good more than their own, and their neighbor's good as their own, are they who in
the other life love and seek the Lord's kingdom; for there the Lord's kingdom takes the place
of country; and those who love doing good to others, not with self as an end but with good
as an end, love the neighbor; for in heaven good is the neighbor.{2} All such are in the Greatest
Man, that is, heaven.

  {Footnote 1} In the Wood "righteousness" is predicated of good,
  and "judgment" of truth; therefore "to do righteousness and
  judgment" is to do what is good and true (n. 2235, 9857).

  {Footnote 2} In the highest sense the Lord is the neighbor;
  consequently to love the Lord is to love that which is from
  Him, that is to love good and truth because the Lord is in
  everything that is from Him (n. 2425, 3419, 6706, 6711 6819,
  6823, 8123). Therefore all good that is from the Lord is the
  neighbor, and to will and do that good is to love the neighbor
  (n. 5028, 10336).

65. As the whole heaven reflects a single man, and is a Divine spiritual man in the largest
form, even in figure, so heaven like a man is arranged into members and parts, and these are
similarly named. Moreover, angels know in what member this or that society is. This society,
they say, is in a certain part or province of the head, that in a certain part or province
of the breast, that in a certain part or province of the loins, and so on. In general, the
highest or third heaven forms the head down to the neck; the middle or second heaven forms
the breast down to the loins and knees; the lowest or first heaven forms the feet down to the
soles, and also the arms down to the fingers. For the arms and hands belong to the lowest parts
of man, although at the sides. From this again it is plain why there are three heavens.

66. The spirits that are beneath heaven are greatly astonished when they hear that heaven is
not only above but below, for they have a like faith and opinion as men in the world, that
heaven is nowhere but above, for they do not know that the arrangement of the heavens is like
the arrangement of the members, organs, and viscera in man, some of which are above and some
below; or like the arrangement of the parts in each of the members, organs, and viscera, some
of which are within and some without. Hence their confused notions about heaven.

67. These things about heaven as the Greatest Man are set forth, because what follows in regard
to heaven cannot be at all comprehended until these things are known, neither can there be
any clear idea of the form of heaven, of the conjunction of the Lord with heaven, of the conjunction
of heaven with man, of the influx of the spiritual world into the natural, or any idea at all
of correspondence-subjects to be treated of in their proper order in what now follows. To throw
some light on these subjects, therefore, the above has been premised.

68. IX. EACH SOCIETY IN HEAVEN REFLECTS A SINGLE MAN.

I have frequently been permitted to see that each society of heaven reflects a single man,
and is in the likeness of a man. There was a society into which several had insinuated themselves
who knew how to counterfeit angels of light. These were hypocrites. When these were being separated
from the angels I saw that the entire society appeared at first like a single indistinct body,
then by degrees in a human form, but still indistinctly, and at last clearly as a man. Those
that were in that man and made up the man were such as were in the good of that society; the
others who were not in the man and did not make up the man were hypocrites; these were cast
out and the former were retained; and thus a separation was effected. Hypocrites are such as
talk well and also do well, but have regard to themselves in everything. They talk as angels
do about the Lord, heaven, love, and heavenly life, and also act rightly, so that they may
appear to be what they profess to be. But their thinking is different; they believe nothing;
and they wish good to none but themselves. Their doing good is for the sake of self, or if
for the sake of others it is only for the appearance, and thus still for the sake of self.

69. I have also been permitted to see that an entire angelic society, where the Lord is visibly
present, appears as a one in the human form. There appeared on high towards the east something
like a cloud, from glowing white becoming red, and with little stars round about, which was
descending; and as it gradually descended it became brighter, and at last appeared in a perfect
human form. The little stars round about the cloud were angels, who so appeared by virtue of
light from the Lord.

70. It must be understood that although all in a heavenly society when seen together as one
appear in the likeness of a man; yet no one society is just such a man as another. Societies
differ from one another like the faces of different individuals of the same family, for the
reason given above (n. 47), that is, they differ in accordance with the varieties of good in
which they are and which determines their form. The societies of the inmost or highest heaven,
and in the center there, are those that appear in the most perfect and beautiful human form.

71. It is worthy of mention that the greater the number in any society in heaven and the more
these make a one, the more perfect is its human form, for variety arranged in a heavenly form
is what constitutes perfection, as has been shown above (n. 56), and number gives variety.
Moreover, every society of heaven increases in number daily, and as it increases it becomes
more perfect. Thus not only the society becomes more perfect, but also heaven in general, because
it is made up of societies. As heaven gains in perfection by increase of numbers, it is evident
how mistaken those are who believe that heaven may be closed by becoming full; for the opposite
is true, that it will never be closed, but is perfected by greater and greater fullness. Therefore,
the angels desire nothing so much as to have new angel guests come to them.

72. Each society, when it appears as one whole is in the form of a man, for the reason that
heaven as a whole has that form (as has been shown in the preceding chapter); moreover, in
the most perfect form, such as the form of heaven is, there is a likeness of the parts to the
whole, and of lesser forms to the greatest. The lesser forms and parts of heaven are the societies
of which it consists, which are also heavens in lesser form (see 51-58). This likeness is perpetual
because in the heavens the goods of all are from a single love, that is, from a single origin.
The single love, which is the origin of the good of all in heaven, is love to the Lord from
the Lord. It is from this that the entire heaven in general, each society less generally, and
each angel in particular, is a likeness of the Lord, as has been shown above (n. 58).

73. X. THEREFORE EVERY ANGEL IS IN A COMPLETE HUMAN FORM.

In the two preceding chapters it has been shown that heaven in its whole complex, and likewise
each society in heaven, reflects a single man. From the sequence of reasons there set forth
it follows that this is equally true of each angel. As heaven is a man in largest form, and
a society of heaven in a less form, so is an angel in least. For in the most perfect form,
such as the form of heaven is, there is a likeness of the whole in the part and of the part
in the whole. This is so for the reason that heaven is a common sharing, for it shares all
it has with each one, and each one receives all he has from that sharing. Because an angel
is thus a recipient he is a heaven in least form, as shown above in its chapter; and a man
also, so far as he receives heaven, is a recipient, a heaven, and an angel (see above, n. 57).
This is thus described in the Apocalypse:

     He measured the wall of the holy Jerusalem, a hundred and
     forty and four cubits, the measure of a man, which is that
     of an angel (21:17).

"Jerusalem" means here the Lord's church, and in a more eminent sense, heaven;{1} the "wall"
means truth, which is a defence against the assault of falsities and evils;{2} "a hundred and
forty and four" means all goods and truths in the complex;{3} "measure" means what a thing
is,{4} a "man" means one in whom are goods and truths in general and in particular, thus in
whom is heaven. And as it is from this that an angel is a man, it is said "the measure of a
man, which is that of an angel." This is the spiritual meaning of these words. Without that
meaning how could it be seen that "the wall of the Holy Jerusalem" is "the measure of a man,
which is that of an angel?"{5}

  {Footnote 1} "Jerusalem" means the church (n. 402, 3654, 9166).

  {Footnote 2} The "wall" means truth defending against the
  assault of falsities and evils (n. 6419).

  {Footnote 3} "Twelve" means all truths and goods in the complex
  (n. 577, 2089, 2129, 2130, 3272, 3858, 3913). Likewise
  "seventy-two," and "a hundred and forty-four," since this comes
  from twelve multiplied into itself (n. 7973). All numbers in
  the Word signify things (n. 482, 487, 647, 648, 755, 813, 1963,
  1988, 2075, 2252, 3252, 4264, 4495, 5265). Multiplied numbers
  have a like signification as the simple numbers from which they
  arise by multiplication (n. 5291, 5335, 5708, 7973).

  {Footnote 4} "Measure" in the Word signifies the quality of a
  thing in respect to truth and good (n. 3104, 9603).

  {Footnote 5} In regard to the spiritual or internal sense of
  the Word see the explanation of The White Horse in the
  Apocalypse, and the Appendix to The Heavenly Doctrine.

74. Let us now turn to experience. That angels are human forms, or men, has been seen by me
a thousand times. I have talked with them as man with man, sometimes with one, sometimes with
many together; and I have seen nothing whatever in their form different from the human form;
and have occasionally been surprised to find them such. And that this might not be said to
be a delusion or a vision of fancy, I have been permitted to see angels when fully awake or
in possession of all my bodily senses, and in a state of clear perception. And I have often
told them that men in the Christian world are in such blind ignorance in regard to angels and
spirits as to believe them to be minds without form, even pure thoughts, of which they have
no idea except as something ethereal in which there is some vitality. And as they thus ascribe
to angels nothing human except a thinking faculty, they believe that having no eyes they do
not see, having no ears they do not hear, and having no mouth or tongue they do not speak.
[2] To this the angels replied that they are aware that such a belief is held by many in the
world, and is prevalent among the learned, and to their surprise, even among the clergy. The
reason, they said, is that the learned, who were the leaders and who first concocted such an
idea of angels and spirits, conceived of them from the sense-conceptions of the external man;
and those who think from these, and not from interior light and from the general idea implanted
in everyone, must needs fabricate such notions, since the sense-conceptions of the external
man take in only what belongs to nature, and nothing above nature, thus nothing whatever of
the spiritual world.{1} From these leaders as guides this falsity of thought about angels extended
to others who did not think from themselves but adopted the thoughts of their leaders; and
those who first take their thoughts from others and make that thought their belief, and then
view it with their own understanding, cannot easily recede from it, and are therefore in most
cases satisfied with confirming it. [3] The angels said, furthermore, that the simple in faith
and heart have no such idea about angels, but think of them as the men of heaven, and for the
reason that they have not extinguished by learning what is implanted in them from heaven, and
have no conception of anything apart from form. This is why angels in churches, whether sculptured
or painted, are always depicted as men. In respect to this insight from heaven they said that
it is the Divine flowing into such as are in the good of faith and life.

  {Footnote 1} Unless man is raised above the sense-conceptions
  of the external man he has very little wisdom (n. 5089). The
  wise man thinks above these sense-conceptions (n. 5089, 5094).
  When man is raised above these, he comes into clearer light,
  and finally into heavenly light (n. 6183, 6313, 6315, 9407,
  9730, 9922). Elevation and withdrawal from these was known to
  the ancients (n. 6313).

75. From all my experience, which is now of many years, I am able to say and affirm that angels
are wholly men in form, having faces, eyes, ears, bodies, arms, hands, and feet; that they
see and hear one another, and talk together, and in a word lack nothing whatever that belongs
to men except that they are not clothed in material bodies. I have seen them in their own light,
which exceeds by many degrees the noonday light of the world, and in that light all their features
could be seen more distinctly and clearly than the faces of men are seen on the earth. It has
also been granted me to see an angel of the inmost heaven. He had a more radiant and resplendent
face than the angels of the lower heavens. I observed him attentively, and he had a human form
in all completeness.

76. But it must be remembered that a man cannot see angels with his bodily eyes, but only with
the eyes of the spirit within him,{1} because his spirit is in the spiritual world, and all
things of the body are in the natural world. Like sees like from being like. Moreover, as the
bodily organ of sight, which is the eye, is too gross, as everyone knows, to see even the smaller
things of nature except through magnifying glasses, still less can it see what is above the
sphere of nature, as all things in the spiritual world are. Nevertheless these things can be
seen by man when he has been withdrawn from the sight of the body, and the sight of his spirit
has been opened; and this can be effected instantly whenever it is the pleasure of the Lord
that man should see these things; and in that case man does not know but what he is seeing
them with his bodily eyes. Thus were angels seen by Abraham, Lot, Manoah, and the prophets;
and thus, too, the Lord was seen by the disciples after the resurrection; and in the same way
angels have been seen by me. Because the prophets saw in this way they were called "seers,"
and were said "to have their eyes opened" (1 Sam. 9:8; Num.

  {Footnote 1} In respect to his interiors man is a spirit (n.
  1594). And that spirit is the man himself, and it is from that
  spirit that the body lived (n. 447, 4622, 6054).

77. Good spirits, with whom I have spoken about this matter, have been deeply grieved at such
ignorance in the church about the condition of heaven and of spirits and angels; and in their
displeasure they charged me to declare positively that they are not formless minds nor ethereal
breaths, but are men in very form, and see, hear, and feel equally with those who are in this
world.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Inasmuch as each angel is a recipient of Divine
  order from the Lord, he is in a human form, perfect and
  beautiful in the measure of his reception (n. 322, 1880, 1881,
  3633, 3804, 4622, 4735, 4797, 4985, 5199, 5530, 6054, 9879,
  10177, 10594). It is by means of Divine truth that order
  exists; and Divine good is the essential of order (n. 2451,
  3166, 4390, 4409, 5232, 7256, 10122, 10555).

78. XI. IT IS FROM THE LORD'S DIVINE HUMAN THAT HEAVEN AS A WHOLE AND IN PART REFLECTS MAN.

That it is from the Lord's Divine Human that heaven as a whole and in part reflects man, follows
as a conclusion from all that has been stated and shown in the preceding chapters, namely:
(i) That the God of heaven is the Lord. (ii) It is the Divine of the Lord that makes heaven.
(iii) Heaven consists of innumerable societies; and each society is a heaven in a smaller form,
and each angel in the smallest form. (iv) All heaven in the aggregate reflects a single man.
(v) Each society in the heavens reflects a single man. (vi) Therefore every angel is in a complete
human form. All this leads to the conclusion that as it is the Divine that makes heaven, heaven
must be human in form. That this Divine is the Lord's Divine Human can be seen still more clearly,
because in a compendium, in what has been collected, brought together and collated from the
Arcana Coelestia and placed as a supplement at the end of this chapter. That the Lord's Human
is Divine, and that it is not true that His Human is not Divine, as those with in the church
believe, may also be seen in the same extracts, also in the chapter on The Lord, in The New
Jerusalem and its Heavenly Doctrine, at the end.

79. That this is true has been proved to me by much experience, about which something shall
now be said. No angel in the heavens ever perceives the Divine as being in any other than a
human form; and what is remarkable, those in the higher heavens are unable to think of the
Divine in any other way. The necessity of thinking in this way comes from the Divine itself
that flows in, and also from the form of heaven in harmony with which their thoughts spread
forth. For every thought of an angel spreads forth into heaven; and the angels have intelligence
and wisdom in the measure of that extension. It is in consequence of this that all in heaven
acknowledge the Lord, because only in Him does the Divine Human exist. Not only have I been
told all this by angels, but when elevated into the inner sphere of heaven I have been able
to perceive it. From this it is evident that the wiser the angels are the more clearly they
perceive this truth; and it is from this that the Lord is seen by them; for the Lord is seen
in a Divine angelic form, which is the human form, by those who acknowledge and believe in
a visible Divine Being, but not by those who believe in an invisible Divine. For the former
can see their Divine Being, but the latter cannot.

80. Because the angels have no perception of an invisible Divine, which they call a Divine
devoid of form, but perceive only a visible Divine in human form, they are accustomed to say
that the Lord alone is man, and that it is from Him that they are men, and that each one is
a man in the measure of his reception of the Lord. By receiving the Lord they understand receiving
good and truth which are from Him, since the Lord is in His good and in His truth, and this
they call wisdom and intelligence. Everyone knows, they say, that intelligence and wisdom make
man, and not a face without these. The truth of this is made evident from the appearance of
the angels of the interior heavens, for these, being in good and truth from the Lord and in
consequent wisdom and intelligence, are in a most beautiful and most perfect human form; while
the angels of the lower heavens are in human form of less perfection and beauty. On the other
hand, those who are in hell appear in the light of heaven hardly as men, but rather as monsters,
since they are not in good and truth but in evil and falsity, and consequently in the opposites
of wisdom and intelligence. For this reason their life is not called life, but spiritual death.

81. Because heaven as a whole and in part, from the Lord's Divine
Human, reflects a man, the angels say that they are in the Lord; and
some say that they are in His body, meaning that they are in the good
of His love. For apart from Me ye can do
     nothing. Abide in My love. If ye keep My commandments ye
     shall abide in My love (John 15:4-10).

82. Because such a perception of the Divine exists in the heavens, to think of God as in a
human form is implanted in every man who receives any influx from heaven. Thus did the ancients
think of Him; and thus do the moderns think of Him both outside of the church and within it.
The simple see Him in thought as the Ancient One in shining light. But this insight has been
extinguished in all those that by self-intelligence and by a life of evil have rejected influx
from heaven. Those that have extinguished it by self-intelligence prefer an invisible God;
while those that have extinguished it by a life of evil prefer no God. Neither of these are
aware that such an insight exists, because they do not have it; and yet it is the Divine heavenly
itself that primarily flows into man out of heaven, because man is born for heaven, and no
one without a conception of a Divine can enter heaven.

83. For this reason he that has no conception of heaven, that is, no conception of the Divine
from which heaven is, cannot be raised up to the first threshold of heaven. As soon as such
a one draws near to heaven a resistance and a strong repulsion are perceived; and for the reason
that his interiors, which should be receptive of heaven, are closed up from their not being
in the form of heaven, and the nearer he comes to heaven the more tightly are they closed up.
Such is the lot of those within the church who deny the Lord, and of those who, like the Socinians,
deny His Divinity. But the lot of those who are born out of the church, and who are ignorant
of the Lord because they do not have the Word, will be described hereafter.

84. That the men of old time had an idea of the Divine as human is evident from the manifestation
of the Divine to Abraham, Lot, Joshua, Gideon, Manoah and his wife, and others. These saw God
as a man, but nevertheless adored Him as the God of the universe, calling Him the God of heaven
and earth, and Jehovah. That it was the Lord who was seen by Abraham He Himself teaches in
John (8:56); and that it was He who was seen by the rest is evident from His words:

     No one hath seen the Father, nor heard His voice, nor seen
     His form (John 1:18; 5:37).

85. But that God is man can scarcely be comprehended by those who judge all things from the
sense-conceptions of the external man, for the sensual man must needs think of the Divine from
the world and what is therein, and thus of a Divine and spiritual man in the same way as of
a corporeal and natural man. From this he concludes that if God were a man He would be as large
as the universe; and if He ruled heaven and earth it would be done through many others, after
the manner of kings in the world. If told that in heaven there is no extension of space as
in the world, he would not in the least comprehend it. For he that thinks only from nature
and its light must needs think in accord with such extension as appears before his eyes. But
it is the greatest mistake to think in this way about heaven. Extension there is not like extension
in the world. In the world extension is determinate, and thus measurable; but in heaven it
is not determinate, and thus not measurable. But extension in heaven will be further treated
of hereafter in connection with space and time in the spiritual world. Furthermore, everyone
knows how far the sight of the eye extends, namely, to the sun and to the stars, which are
so remote; and whoever thinks deeply knows that the internal sight, which is of thought, has
a still wider extension, and that a yet more interior sight must extend more widely still.
What then must be said of Divine sight, which is the inmost and highest of all? Because thoughts
have such extension, all things of heaven are shared with everyone there, so, too, are all
things of the Divine which makes heaven and fills it, as has been shown in the preceding chapters.

86. Those in heaven wonder that men can believe themselves to be intelligent who, in thinking
of God, think about something invisible, that is, inconceivable under any form; and that they
can call those who think differently unintelligent and simple, when the reverse is the truth.
They add, "Let those who thus believe themselves to be intelligent examine themselves, whether
they do not look upon nature as God, some the nature that is before their eyes, others the
invisible side of nature; and whether they are not so blind as not to know what God is, what
an angel is, what a spirit is, what their soul is which is to live after death, what the life
of heaven in man is, and many other things that constitute intelligence; when yet those whom
they call simple know all these things in their way, having an idea of their God that He is
the Divine in a human form, of an angel that he is a heavenly man, of their soul that is to
live after death that it is like an angel, and of the life of heaven in man that it is living
in accord with the Divine commandments." Such the angels call intelligent and fitted for heaven;
but the others, on the other hand, they call not intelligent.

EXTRACTS FROM THE ARCANA COELESTIA RELATING TO THE LORD AND HIS DIVINE HUMAN.

     [2] The Divine was in the Lord from very conception (n.
     4641, 4963, 5041, 5157, 6716, 10125).

     The Lord alone had a Divine seed (n. 1438).

     His soul was Jehovah (n. 1999, 2004, 2005, 2018, 2025).

     Thus the Lord's inmost was the Divine Itself, while the
     clothing was from the mother (n. 5041).

     The Divine Itself was the Being [Esse] of the Lord's life,
     and from this the Human afterwards went forth and became
     the outgo [existere] from that Being [Esse] (n. 3194,
     3210, 10269, 10738).

     [3] Within the church where the Word is and by it the Lord
     is known, the Lord's Divine ought not to be denied, nor
     the Holy that goes forth from Him (n. 2359).

     Those within the church who do not acknowledge the Lord
     have no conjunction with the Divine; but it is otherwise
     with those outside of the church (n. 10205).

     The essential of the church is to acknowledge the Lord's
     Divine and His union with the Father (n. 10083, 10112,
     10370, 10730, 10738, 10816-10820).

     [4] The glorification of the Lord is treated of in the
     Word in many passages (n. 10828).

     And in the internal sense of the Word everywhere (n. 2249,
     2523, 3245).

     The Lord glorified His Human, but not the Divine, since
     this was glorified in itself (n. 10057).

     The Lord came into the world to glorify His Human (n.
     3637, 4287, 9315).

     The Lord glorified His Human by means of the Divine love
     that was in Him from conception (n. 4727).

     The Lord's life in the world was His love towards the
     whole human race (n. 2253).

     The Lord's love transcends all human understanding (n.
     2077).

     The Lord saved the human race by glorifying His Human (n.
     4180, 10019; 10152, 10655, 10659 10828).

     Otherwise the whole human race would have perished in
     eternal death (n. 1676).

     The state of the Lord's glorification and humiliation (n.
     1785, 1999, 2159, 6866).

     Glorification in respect to the Lord is the uniting of His
     Human with the Divine; and to glorify is to make Divine
     (n. 1603, 10053, 10828).

     When the Lord glorified His Human He put off everything
     human that was from the mother, until at last He was not
     her son (n. 2159, 2574, 2649, 3036, 10830).

     [5] The Son of God from eternity was the Divine truth in
     heaven (n. 2628, 2798, 2803, 3195, 3704).

     When the Lord was in the world He made His Human Divine
     truth from the Divine good that was in Him (n. 2803, 3194,
     3195, 3210, 6716, 6864, 7014, 7499, 8127, 8724, 9199).

     The Lord then arranged all things in Himself into a
     heavenly form, which is in accord with Divine truth (n.
     1928, 3633).

     For this reason the Lord was called the Word, which is
     Divine truth (n. 2533, 2813, 2859, 2894, 3393, 3712).

     The Lord alone had perception and thought from Himself,
     and this was above all angelic perception and thought (n.
     1904, 1914, 1919).

     The Divine truth which was Himself, the Lord united with
     Divine good which was in Himself (n. 10047, 10052, 10076).
     The union was reciprocal (n. 2004, 10067).

     [6] In passing out of the world the Lord also made His
     Human Divine good (n. 3194, 3210, 6864, 7499, 8724, 9199,
     10076).

     This is what is meant by His coming forth from the Father
     and returning to the Father (n. 3194, 3210). Thus He
     became one with the Father (n. 2751, 3704, 4766).

     Since that union Divine truth goes forth from the Lord (n.
     3704, 3712, 3969, 4577, 5704, 7499, 8127, 8241, 9199,
     9398). How Divine truth goes forth, illustrated (n. 7270,
     9407).

     It was from His own power that the Lord united the Human
     with the Divine (n. 1616, 1749, 1752, 1813, 1921, 2025,
     2026, 2523, 3141, 5005, 5045, 6716).

     From this it is clear that the Lord's Human was not like
     the human of any other man, in that it was conceived from
     the Divine Itself (n. 10125, 10825, 10826).

     His union with the Father, from whom was His soul, was not
     as between two persons, but as between soul and body (n.
     3737, 10824).

     [7] The most ancient people could not worship the Divine
     being [esse], but could worship only the Divine Outgo
     [existere], which is the Divine Human; therefore the Lord
     came into the world in order to become the Divine Existere
     from the Divine Esse (n. 4687, 5321).

     The ancients acknowledged the Divine because He appeared
     to them in a human form, and this was the Divine Human (n.
     5110, 5663, 6845, 10737).

     The Infinite Being [Esse] could flow into heaven with the
     angels and with men only by means of the Divine Human (n.
     1676, 1990, 2016, 2034).

     In heaven no other Divine than the Divine Human is
     perceived (n. 6475, 9303, 10067, 10267).

     The Divine Human from eternity was the Divine truth in
     heaven and the Divine passing through heaven; thus it was
     the Divine Outgo [existere] which afterwards in the Lord
     became the Divine Being [Esse] per se, from which is the
     Divine Existere in heaven (n. 3061, 6280, 6880, 10579).

     What the state of heaven was before the Lord's coming (n.
     6371-6373).

     The Divine was not perceptible except when it passed
     through heaven (n. 6982, 6996, 7004).

     [8] The inhabitants of all the earth worship the Divine
     under a human form, that is, the Lord (n. 6700, 8541-8547,
     10736-10738).

     They rejoice when they hear that God actually became Man
     (n. 9361).

     All who are in good and who worship the Divine under the
     human form, are received by the Lord (n. 9359).

     God cannot be thought of except in human form; and what is
     incomprehensible does not fall into any idea, so neither
     into belief (n. 9359, 9972).

     Man is able to worship that of which he has some idea, but
     not that of which he has no idea (n. 4733, 5110, 5663,
     7211, 9356, 10067, 10267).

     Therefore the Divine is worshiped under a human form by
     most of the inhabitants of the entire globe, and this is
     the effect of influx from heaven (n. 10159).

     All who are in good in regard to their life, when they
     think of the Lord, think of the Divine Human, and not of
     the Human separate from the Divine; it is otherwise with
     those who are not in good in regard to their life (n.
     2326, 4724, 4731, 4766, 8878, 9193, 9198).

     In the church at this day those that are in evil in regard
     to their life, and those that are in faith separate from
     charity, think of the Human of the Lord apart from the
     Divine, and do not even comprehend what the Divine Human
     is,-why they do not (n. 3212, 3241, 4689, 4692, 4724, 4731,
     5321, 6872, 8878, 9193, 9198).

     The Lord's Human is Divine because it is from the Being
     [Esse] of the Father, and this was His soul,--illustrated
     by a father's likeness in children (n. 10269, 10372,
     10823).

     Also because it was from the Divine love, which was the
     very Being [Esse] of His life from conception (n. 6872).

     Every man is such as his love is, and is his love (n.
     6872, 10177, 10284). The Lord made all His Human, both
     internal and external, Divine (n. 1603, 1815, 1902, 1926,
     2083, 2093).

     Therefore, differently from any man, He rose again as to
     His whole body (n. 1729, 2083, 5078, 10825).

     [9] That the Lord's Human is Divine is acknowledged from
     His omnipresence in the Holy Supper (n. 2343, 2359).

     Also from His transfiguration before His three disciples
     (n. 3212).

     Also from the Word of the Old Testament, in that He is
     called God (n. 10154); and is called Jehovah (n. 1603,
     1736, 1815, 1902, 2921, 3035, 5110, 6281, 6303, 8864,
     9194, 9315).

     In the sense of the letter a distinction is made between
     the Father and the Son, that is, between Jehovah and the
     Lord, but not in the internal sense of the Word, in which
     the angels of heaven are (n. 3035).

     In the Christian world the Lord's Human has been declared
     not to be Divine; this was done in a council for the
     pope's sake, that he might be acknowledged as the Lord's
     vicar (n. 4738).

     A Divine trine in the Lord is acknowledged in heaven (n.
     14, 15, 1729, 2004, 5256, 9303).

     The trine in the Lord is the Divine Itself, called the
     Father, the Divine Human, called the Son, and the Divine
     going forth, called the Holy Spirit and this Divine trine
     is a One (n. 2149, 2156, 2288, 2319, 2329, 2447, 3704,
     6993, 7182, 10738, 10822, 10823).

     The Lord Himself teaches that the Father and He are One
     (n. 1729, 2004, 2005, 2018, 2025, 2751, 3704, 3736, 4766);
     also that the Holy Divine goes forth from Him and is His
     (n. 3969, 4673, 6788, 6993, 7499, 8127, 8302, 9199, 9228,
     9229, 9264, 9407, 9818, 9820, 10330).

     [11] The Divine Human flows into heaven and makes heaven
     (n. 3038). The Lord is the all in heaven and is the life
     of heaven (n. 7211, 9128). In the angels the Lord dwells
     in what is His own (n. 9338, 10125, 10151, 10157).

     Consequently those who are in heaven are in the Lord (n.
     3637, 3638).

     The Lord's conjunction with angels is measured by their
     reception of the good of love and charity from Him (n.
     904, 4198, 4205, 4211, 4220, 6280, 6832, 7042, 8819, 9680,
     9682, 9683, 10106, 10810).

     The entire heaven has reference to the Lord (n. 551, 552).
     The Lord is the common center of heaven (n. 3633, 3641).

     All in heaven turn themselves to the Lord, who is above
     the heavens (n. 9828, 10130, 10189).

     Nevertheless angels do not turn themselves to the Lord,
     but the Lord turns them to Himself (n. 10189).

     It is not a presence of angels with the Lord, but the
     Lord's presence with angels (n. 9415).

     In heaven there is no conjunction with the Divine Itself,
     but conjunction with the Divine Human (n. 4211, 4724,
     5663).

     The Lord is the Only Man, and those only are men who
     receive the Divine from Him (n. 1894).

     So far as they receive are they men and images of Him (n.
     8547).

     [13] The whole heaven is the Lord's (n. 2751, 7086).

     The Lord alone has the power to remove the hells, to
     withhold from evils, and to hold in good, thus to save (n.
     10019).

87. XII. THERE IS A CORRESPONDENCE OF ALL THINGS OF HEAVEN WITH ALL THINGS OF MAN.

What correspondence is is not known at the present day, for several reasons, the chief of which
is that man has withdrawn himself from heaven by the love of self and love of the world. For
he that loves self and the world above all things gives heed only to worldly things, since
these appeal to the external senses and gratify the natural longings; and he does not give
heed to spiritual things, since these appeal to the internal senses and gratify the mind, therefore
he casts them aside, saying that they are too high for his comprehension. This was not so with
the ancient people. To them the knowledge of correspondences was the chief of knowledges. By
means of it they acquired intelligence and wisdom; and by means of it those who were of the
church had communication with heaven; for the knowledge of correspondences is angelic knowledge.
The most ancient people, who were celestial men, thought from correspondence itself, as the
angels do. And therefore they talked with angels, and the Lord frequently appeared to them,
and they were taught by Him. But at this day that knowledge has been so completely lost that
no one knows what correspondence is.{1}

  {Footnote 1} How far the knowledge of correspondences excels
  other knowledges (n. 4280). The knowledge of correspondences
  was the chief knowledge of the ancient people; but at the
  present day it is wholly forgotten (n. 3021, 3419, 4280, 4749,
  4844, 4964, 4966, 6004, 7729, 10252). The knowledge of
  correspondences flourished among the Eastern nations and in
  Egypt (5702, 6692, 7097, 7779, 9391, 10407).

88. Since, then, without a perception of what correspondence is there can be no clear knowledge
of the spiritual world or of its inflow into the natural world, neither of what the spiritual
is in its relation to the natural, nor any clear knowledge of the spirit of man, which is called
the soul, and its operation into the body, neither of man's state after death, it is necessary
to explain what correspondence is and the nature of it. This will prepare the way for what
is to follow.

89. First, what correspondence is. The whole natural world corresponds to the spiritual world,
and not merely the natural world in general, but also every particular of it; and as a consequence
everything in the natural world that springs from the spiritual world is called a correspondent.
It must be understood that the natural world springs from and has permanent existence from
the spiritual world, precisely like an effect from its effecting cause. All that is spread
out under the sun and that receives heat and light from the sun is what is called the natural
world; and all things that derive their subsistence therefrom belong to that world. But the
spiritual world is heaven; and all things in the heavens belong to that world.

90. Since man is both a heaven and a world in least form after the image of the greatest (see
above, n. 57), there is in him both a spiritual and a natural world. The interior things that
belong to his mind, and that have relation to understanding and will, constitute his spiritual
world; while the exterior things that belong to his body, and that have relation to its senses
and activities, constitute his natural world. Consequently, everything in his natural world
(that is, in his body and its senses and activities), that has its existence from his spiritual
world (that is, from his mind and its understanding and will) is called a correspondent.

91. From the human face it can be seen what correspondence is. In a face that has not been
taught to dissemble, all the affections of the mind present themselves to view in a natural
form, as in their type. This is why the face is called the index of the mind; that is, it is
man's spiritual world presented in his natural world. So, too, what pertains to the understanding
is presented in speech, and what pertains to the will is presented in the movements of the
body. So whatever effects are produced in the body, whether in the face, in speech, or in bodily
movements, are called correspondences.

92. All this shows also what the internal man is and what the external, namely, that the internal
is what is called the spiritual man, and the external what is called the natural man; also
that the one is distinct from the other as heaven is from the world; also that all things that
take place and come forth in the external or natural man take place and come forth from the
internal or spiritual man.

93. This much has been said about the correspondence of man's internal or spiritual with his
external or natural; now the correspondence of the whole heaven with everything pertaining
to man shall be treated of.

94. It has been shown that the entire heaven reflects a single man, and that it is in image
a man and is therefore called the Greatest Man. It has also been shown that the angelic societies,
of which heaven consists, are therefore arranged as the members, organs, and viscera are in
man, that is, some are in the head, some in the breast, some in the arms, and some in each
of their particulars (see above, n. 59-72); consequently the societies in any member there
correspond to the like member in man; those in the head corresponding to the head in man, those
in the breast to the breast in man, those in the arms to the arms in man; and so with all the
rest. It is from this correspondence that man has permanent existence, for from heaven alone
does man have permanent existence.

95. The celestial kingdom corresponds in general to the heart and all things of the heart in
the whole body, and the spiritual kingdom to the lungs and to all things of the lungs in the
whole body. Likewise in man heart and lungs form two kingdoms, the heart ruling there through
the arteries and veins, and the lungs through the tendinous and motor fibers, both together
in every exertion and movement. So in every man, in his spiritual world, which is called his
spiritual man, there are two kingdoms, one of the will and the other of the understanding,
the will ruling through affections for good, and the understanding through affections for truth;
and these kingdoms correspond to the kingdoms of the heart and of the lungs in the body. It
is the same in the heavens; the celestial kingdom is the voluntary part of heaven, and in it
good of love reigns; the spiritual kingdom is the intellectual part of heaven, and in it truth
reigns. These are what correspond to the functions of the heart and lungs in man. It is on
account of this correspondence that in the Word the "heart" signifies the will and also good
of love, and the "breath" of the lungs signifies the understanding and the truth of faith.
For the same reason affections are ascribed to the heart, although they are neither in it nor
from it.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The correspondence of the heart and lungs with the
  Greatest Man, which is heaven, from experience (n. 3883-3896),
  The heart corresponds to those in the celestial kingdom, and
  the lungs to those in the spiritual kingdom (n. 3885-3887).
  There is in heaven a pulse like that of the heart, and a
  respiration like that of the lungs but interior (n. 3884, 3885,
  3887). There the pulse of the heart varies in conformity to
  states of love, and the respiration in conformity to states of
  charity and faith (n. 3886, 3887, 3889). In the Word the
  "heart" means the will, and "from the heart" means from the
  will (n. 2930, 7542, 8910, 9113, 10336). In the Word the
  "heart" also signifies love, and "from the heart" means from
  love (7542, 9050, 10336).

96. The correspondence of the two kingdoms of heaven with the heart and lungs is the general
correspondence of heaven with man. There is a less general correspondence with each one of
his members, organs, and viscera; and what this is shall also be explained. In the Greatest
Man, which is heaven, those that are in the head excel all others in every good, being in love,
peace, innocence, wisdom, intelligence, and consequent joy and happiness. These flow into the
head of man and the things belonging to the head and corresponding thereto. In the Greatest
Man, or heaven, those that are in the breast are in the good of charity and of faith, and these
flow into the breast of man and correspond to it. In the Greatest Man, or heaven, those that
are in the loins and the organs devoted to generation are in marriage love. Those in the feet
are in the lowest good of heaven, which is called spiritual natural good. Those in the arms
and hands are in the power of truth from good. Those that are in the eyes are in understanding;
those in the ears are in attention and obedience; those in the nostrils are in perception;
those in the mouth and tongue are in the ability to converse from understanding and perception;
those in the kidneys are in truths searching, separating, and correcting; those in the liver,
pancreas, and spleen are in various purifications of good and truth; and so with the rest.
All these flow into the like things of man and correspond to them. This inflow of heaven is
into the functions and uses of the bodily members; and the uses, since they are from the spiritual
world, take on a form by means of such things as are in the natural world, and thus present
themselves in effect. From this is the correspondence.

97. For the same reason these same members, organs, and viscera have a like significance in
the Word; for everything there has a meaning in accordance with correspondence. Thus the "head"
signifies intelligence and wisdom; the "breast" charity; the "loins" marriage love; the "arms
and hands" power of truth; the "feet" what is natural; the "eyes" understanding; the "nostrils"
perception; the "ears" obedience, the "kidneys" the scrutiny of truth, and so on.{1} So, too,
in the common speech of man it is said of one who is intelligent and wise that he has a good
head; of one who is charitable that he is a bosom friend; of one who has clear perception that
he is keen scented; of one who is intelligent that he is sharp sighted; of one who is powerful
that he is long handed; of one who exercises his will from love that it is done from the heart.
These and many other expressions in the speech of men are from correspondence, for they are
from the spiritual world, although man is ignorant of it.

  {Footnote 1} In the Word the "breast" signifies charity (n.
  3934, 10081, 10087). The "loins" and organs of generation
  signify marriage love (n. 3021, 4280, 4462, 5050-5052). The
  "arms" and "hands" signify the power of truth (n. 878, 3091,
  4931-4937, 6947, 7205, 10019). The "feet" signify the natural
  (n. 2162, 3147, 3761, 3986, 4280, 4938-4952). The "eye"
  signifies understanding (n. 2701, 4403-4421, 4523-4534, 6923,
  9051, 10569). The "nostrils" signify perception (n. 3577, 4624,
  4625, 4748, 5621, 8286, 10054, 10292). The "ears" signify
  obedience (n. 2542, 3869, 4523, 4653, 5017, 7216, 8361, 8990,
  9311, 9397, 10061). The "kidneys" signify the scrutiny and
  correction of truth (n. 5380-5386, 10032).

98. That there is such a correspondence of all things of heaven with all things of man has
been made clear to me by much experience, by so much that I am as convinced of it as of any
evident fact that admits of no doubt. But it is not necessary to describe all this experience
here; nor would it be permissible on account of its abundance. It may be seen set forth in
the Arcana Coelestia, where correspondences, representations, the influx of the spiritual world
into the natural world, and the interaction between soul and body, are treated of.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The correspondence of all the members of the body
  with the Greatest Man, or heaven, in general and in particular,
  from experience (n. 3021, 3624-3649, 3741-3750, 3883-3895,
  4039-4054, 4218-4228, 4318-4331, 4403-4421, 4523-4533,
  4622-4633, 4652-4660, 4791-4805, 4931-4953, 5050-5061,
  5171-5189, 5377-5396, 5552-5573, 5711-5727, 10030). The influx
  of the spiritual world into the natural world or of heaven into
  the world, and the influx of the soul into all things of the
  body, from experience (n. 6053-6058, 6189-6215, 6307-6326,
  6466-6495, 6598-6626). The interaction between soul and body,
  from experience (n. 6053-6058, 6189-6215, 6307-6327, 6466-6495,
  6598-6626).

99. But notwithstanding that all things of man's body correspond to all things of heaven, it
is not in respect to his external form that man is an image of heaven, but in respect to his
internal form; for man's interiors are what receive heaven, while his exteriors receive the
world. So far, therefore, as his interiors receive heaven man is in respect to them a heaven
in least form, after the image of the greatest. But so far as his interiors do not receive
heaven he is not a heaven and an image of the greatest, although his exteriors, which receive
the world, may be in a form in accordance with the order of the world, and thus variously beautiful.
For the source of outward beauty which pertains to the body is in parents and formation in
the womb, and it is preserved afterwards by general influx from the world. For this reason
the form of one's natural man differs greatly from the form of his spiritual man. What the
form of a man's spirit is I have been shown occasionally; and in some who were beautiful and
charming in appearance the spirit was seen to be so deformed, black and monstrous that it might
be called an image of hell, not of heaven; while in others not beautiful there was a spirit
beautifully formed, pure, and angelic. Moreover, the spirit of man appears after death such
as it has been in the body while it lived therein in the world.

100. But correspondence applies far more widely than to man; for there is a correspondence
of the heavens with one another. To the third or inmost heaven the second or middle heaven
corresponds, and to the second or middle heaven the first or outmost heaven corresponds, and
this corresponds to the bodily forms in man called his members, organs, and viscera. Thus it
is the bodily part of man in which heaven finally terminates, and upon which it stands as upon
its base. But this arcanum will be more fully unfolded elsewhere.

101. Especially it must be understood that all correspondence with heaven is with the Lord's
Divine Human, because heaven is from Him, and He is heaven, as has been shown in previous chapters.
For if the Divine Human did not flow into all things of heaven, and in accordance with correspondences
into all things of the world, no angel or man could exist. From this again it is evident why
the Lord became Man and clothed His Divine from first to last with a Human. It was because
the Divine Human, from which heaven existed before the Lord's coming, was no longer sufficient
to sustain all things, for the reason that man, who is the foundation of the heavens, had subverted
and destroyed order. What the Divine Human was before the Lord's coming, and what the condition
of heaven was at that time may be seen in the extracts appended to the preceding chapter.

102. Angels are amazed when they hear that there are men who attribute all things to nature
and nothing to the Divine, and who also believe that their body, into which so many wonders
of heaven are gathered, is a product of nature. Still more are they amazed that the rational
part of man is believed to be from nature, when, if men will but lift their minds a little,
they can see that such effects are not from nature but from the Divine; and that nature has
been created simply for clothing the spiritual and for presenting it in a correspondent form
in the outmost of order. Such men they liken to owls, which see in darkness, but in light see
nothing.

103. XIII. THERE IS A CORRESPONDENCE OF HEAVEN WITH ALL THINGS OF THE EARTH.

What correspondence is has been told in the preceding chapter, and it has there been shown
that each thing and all things of the animal body are correspondences. The next step is to
show that all things of the earth, and in general all things of the universe, are correspondences.

104. All things of the earth are distinguished into three kinds, called kingdoms, namely, the
animal kingdom, the vegetable kingdom, and the mineral kingdom. The things of the animal kingdom
are correspondences in the first degree, because they live; the things of the vegetable kingdom
are correspondences in the second degree, because they merely grow; the things of the mineral
kingdom are correspondences in the third degree, because they neither live nor grow. Correspondences
in the animal kingdom are living creatures of various kinds, both those that walk and creep
on the ground and those that fly in the air; these need not be specially named, as they are
well known. Correspondences in the vegetable kingdom are all things that grow and abound in
gardens, forests, fields, and meadows; these, too, need not be named, because they are well
known. Correspondences in the mineral kingdom are metals more and less noble, stones precious
and not precious, earths of various kinds, and also the waters. Besides these the things prepared
from them by human activity for use are correspondences, as foods of every kind, clothing,
dwellings and other buildings, with many other things.

105. Also the things above the earth, as the sun, moon, and stars, and those in the atmosphere,
as clouds, mists, rain, lightning and thunder, are likewise correspondences. Things resulting
from the presence and absence of the sun, as light and shade, heat and cold, are also correspondences,
as well as those that follow in succession therefrom, as the seasons of the year, spring, summer,
autumn, and winter; and the times of day, morning, noon, evening, and night.

106. In a word, all things that have existence in nature, from the least to the greatest thereof,
are correspondences.{1} They are correspondences because the natural world with all things
in it springs forth and subsists from the spiritual world, and both worlds from the Divine.
They are said to subsist also, because everything subsists from that from which it springs
forth, subsistence being a permanent springing forth; also because nothing can subsist from
itself, but only from that which is prior to itself, thus from a First, and if separated from
that it would utterly perish and vanish.

  {Footnote 1} All things that are in the world and its three
  kingdoms correspond to the heavenly things that are in heaven,
  that is, the things in the natural world correspond to the
  things in the spiritual world (n. 1632, 1881, 2758, 2760-2763,
  2987-3003, 3213-3227, 3483, 3624-3649, 4044, 4053, 4116, 4366,
  4939, 5116, 5377, 5428, 5477, 9280). By correspondences the
  natural world is conjoined to the spiritual world (n. 8615).
  For this reason all nature is a theatre representative of the
  Lord's kingdom (n. 2758, 2999, 3000, 3483, 4938, 4939, 8848,
  9280).

107. Everything in nature that springs forth and subsists in accordance with Divine order is
a correspondence. Divine order is caused by the Divine good that flows forth from the Lord.
It begins in Him, goes forth from Him through the heavens in succession into the world, and
is terminated there in outmosts; and everything there that is in accordance with order is a
correspondence. Everything there is in accordance with order that is good and perfect for use,
because everything good is good in the measure of its use; while its form has relation to truth,
truth being the form of good. And for this reason everything in the whole world and of the
nature thereof that is in Divine order has reference to good and truth.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Everything in the universe, both in heaven and in
  the world, that is in accordance with order, has reference to
  good and truth (n. 2451, 3166, 4390, 4409, 5232, 7256, 10122);
  and to the conjunction of these, in order to be anything (n.
  10555).

108. That all things in the world spring from the Divine, and are clothed with such things
in nature as enable them to exist there and perform use, and thus to correspond, is clearly
evident from the various things seen in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms. In both there
are things that any one who thinks interiorly can see to be from heaven. For illustration a
few things out of a countless number may be mentioned; and first some things from the animal
kingdom. Many are aware what knowledge there is engrafted as it were in every animal. Bees
know how to gather honey from flowers, to build cells out of wax in which to store their honey,
and thus provide food for themselves and their families, even for a coming winter. That a new
generation may be born their queen lays eggs, and the rest take care of them and cover them.
They live under a sort of government which all know by instinct. They preserve the working
bees and cast out the drones, depriving them of their wings; besides other wonderful things
implanted in them from heaven for the sake of their use, their wax everywhere serving the human
race for candles, their honey for adding sweetness to food. [2] Again, what wonders do we see
in worms, the meanest creatures in the animal kingdom! They know how to get food from the juice
of the leaves suited to them, and afterward at the appointed time to invest themselves with
a covering and enter as it were into a womb, and thus hatch offspring of their own kind. Some
are first turned into nymphs and chrysalides, spinning threads about themselves; and this travail
being over they come forth clad with a different body, furnished with wings with which they
fly in the air as in their heaven, and celebrate marriages and lay eggs and provide posterity
for themselves. [3] Besides these special instances all creatures in general that fly in the
air know the proper food for their nourishment, not only what it is but where to find it; they
know how to build nests for themselves, one kind in one way and another kind in another way;
how to lay their eggs in the nests, how to sit upon them, how to hatch their young and feed
them, and to turn them out of their home when they are able to shift for themselves. They know,
too, their enemies that they must avoid and their friends with whom they may associate, and
this from early infancy; not to mention the wonders in the eggs themselves, in which all things
lie ready in their order for the formation and nourishment of the chicks; besides numberless
other things. [4] Who that thinks from any wisdom of reason will ever say that these instincts
are from any other source than the spiritual world, which the natural serves in clothing what
is from it with a body, or in presenting in effect what is spiritual in the cause? The beasts
of the earth and the birds of the air are born into all this knowledge, while man, who is far
superior to them, is not; for the reason that animals are in the order of their life, and have
not been able to destroy what is in them from the spiritual world, because they have no rational
faculty. Man, on the other hand, whose thought is from the spiritual world, having perverted
what is in him from that world by a life contrary to order, which his rational faculty has
favored, must needs be born into mere ignorance and afterwards be led back by Divine means
into the order of heaven.

109. How the things in the vegetable kingdom correspond can be seen from many instances, as
that little seeds grow into trees, put forth leaves, produce flowers, and then fruit, in which
again they deposit seed, these things taking place in succession and existing together in an
order so wonderful as to be indescribable in a few words. Volumes might be filled, and yet
there would be still deeper arcana, relating more closely to their uses, which science would
be unable to exhaust. Since these things, too, are from the spiritual world, that is, from
heaven, which is in the human form (as has been shown above in its own chapter), so all the
particulars in this kingdom have a certain relation to such things as are in man, as some in
the learned world know. That all things in this kingdom also are correspondences has been made
clear to me by much experience. Often when I have been in gardens and have been looking at
the trees, fruits, flowers, and plants there, I have recognized their correspondences in heaven,
and have spoken with those with whom these were, and have been taught whence and what they were.

110. But at the present day no one can know the spiritual things in
heaven to which the natural things in the world correspond except
from heaven, since the knowledge of correspondences is now wholly
lost. But the nature of the correspondence of spiritual things with
natural I shall be glad to illustrate by some examples. The animals
of the earth correspond in general to affection, mild and useful
animals to good affections, fierce and useless ones to evil
affections. In particular, cattle and their young correspond to the
affections of the natural mind, sheep and lambs to the affections of
the spiritual mind; while birds correspond, according to their
species, to the intellectual things of the natural or the spiritual
mind.{1} For this reason various animals, as cattle and their young,
rams, sheep, he-goats, and she-goats, he-lambs and she-lambs, also
pigeons and turtledoves, were devoted to a sacred use in the
Israelitish Church, which was a representative church, and sacrifices
and burnt offerings were made of them. For they correspond in that
use to spiritual things, and in heaven these were understood in
accordance with the correspondences. Moreover, animals according to
their kinds and species, because they have life, are affections; and
the life of each one is solely from affection and in accordance with
affection; consequently every animal has an innate knowledge that is
in accord with its life's affection. Man is like an animal so far as
his natural man is concerned, and is therefore likened to animals in
common speech; for example, if he is gentle he is called a sheep or
lamb, if fierce a bear or wolf, if cunning a fox or serpent, and so
on. Influx of the
  spiritual world into the lives of animals (n. 1633, 3646).
  Cattle and their young from correspondence signify affections
  of the natural mind (n. 2180, 2566, 9391, 10132, 10407). What
  sheep signify (n. 4169, 4809); and lambs (n. 3994, 10132).
  Flying creatures signify intellectual things (n. 40, 745, 776,
  778, 866, 988, 991, 5149, 7441); with a difference according to
  their genera and species, from experience in the spiritual
  world (n. 3219).

111. There is a like correspondence with things in the vegetable kingdom. In general, a garden
corresponds to the intelligence and wisdom of heaven; and for this reason heaven is called
the Garden of God, and Paradise;{1} and men call it the heavenly paradise. Trees, according
to their species, correspond to the perceptions and knowledges of good and truth which are
the source of intelligence and wisdom. For this reason the ancient people, who were acquainted
with correspondences, held their sacred worship in groves;{2} and for the same reason trees
are so often mentioned in the Word, and heaven, the church, and man are compared to them; as
the vine, the olive, the cedar, and others, and the good works done by men are compared to
fruits. Also the food derived from trees, and more especially from the grain harvests of the
field, corresponds to affections for good and truth, because these affections feed the spiritual
life, as the food of the earth does the natural life;{3} and bread from grain, in a general
sense, because it is the food that specially sustains life, and because it stands for all food,
corresponds to an affection for all good. It is on account of this correspondence that the
Lord calls Himself the bread of life; and that loaves of bread had a holy use in the Israelitish
Church, being placed on the table in the tabernacle and called "the bread of faces;" also the
Divine worship that was performed by sacrifices and burnt offerings was called "bread." Moreover,
because of this correspondence the most holy act of worship in the Christian Church is the
Holy Supper, in which bread is given, and wine.{4} From these few examples the nature of correspondence
can be seen.

  {Footnote 1} From correspondence a garden and a paradise
  signify intelligence and wisdom (n. 100, 108); from experience
  (n. 3220). All things that have a correspondence have in the
  Word the same significance (n. 2896, 2987, 2989, 2990, 2991,
  3002, 3225).

  {Footnote 2} Trees signify perceptions and knowledges (n. 103,
  2163, 2682, 2722, 2972, 7692). For this reason the ancient
  people held Divine worship in groves under trees according to
  their correspondence (n. 2722, 4552). Influx of heaven into
  subjects of the vegetable kingdom, as into trees and plants (n.
  3648).

  {Footnote 3} From correspondence foods signify such things as
  nourish the spiritual life (n. 3114, 4459, 4792, 4976, 5147,
  5293, 5340, 5342, 5410, 5426, 5576, 5582, 5588, 5655, 5915,
  6277, 8562, 9003).

  {Footnote 4} Bread signifies every good that nourishes the
  spiritual life of man (n. 2165, 2177, 3478, 3735, 3813, 4211,
  4217, 4735, 4976, 9323, 9545, 10686). Such was the
  signification of the loaves that were on the table in the
  tabernacle (n. 3478, 9545). Sacrifices in general were called
  bread (n. 2165). Bread includes all food (n. 2165). Thus it
  signifies all heavenly and spiritual food (n. 276, 680, 2165,
  2177, 3478, 6118, 8410).

112. How conjunction of heaven with the world is effected by means of correspondences shall
also be told in a few words. The Lord's kingdom is a kingdom of ends, which are uses; or what
is the same thing, a kingdom of uses which are ends. For this reason the universe has been
so created and formed by the Divine that uses may be every where clothed in such a way as to
be presented in act, or in effect, first in heaven and afterwards in the world, thus by degrees
and successively, down to the outmost things of nature. Evidently, then, the correspondence
of natural things with spiritual things, or of the world with heaven, is through uses, and
uses are what conjoin; and the form in which uses are clothed are correspondences and are conjunctions
just to the extent that they are forms of uses. In the nature of the world in its threefold
kingdom, all things that exist in accordance with order are forms of uses, or effects formed
from use for use, and this is why the things in nature are correspondences. But in the case
of man, so far as he is in accordance with Divine order, that is, so far as he is in love to
the Lord and in charity towards the neighbor, are his acts uses in form, and correspondences,
and through these he is conjoined to heaven. To love the Lord and the neighbor means in general
to perform uses.{1} Furthermore, it must be understood that man is the means by which the natural
world and the spiritual world are conjoined, that is, man is the medium of conjunction, because
in him there is a natural world and there is a spiritual world (see above, n. 57); consequently
to the extent that man is spiritual he is the medium of conjunction; but to the extent that
a man is natural, and not spiritual, he is not a medium of conjunction. Nevertheless, apart
from this mediumship of man, a Divine influx into the world and into the things pertaining
to man that are of the world goes on, but not into man's rational faculty.

  {Footnote 1} Every good has its delight as well as its quality
  from use and in accordance with use; therefore such as the use
  is, such is the good (n. 3049, 4984, 7038). Angelic life
  consists in the goods of love and charity, that is, in
  performing uses (n. 454). The Lord, and consequently the
  angels, look only, in regard to man, to ends, which are uses
  (n. 1317, 1645, 5854). The Lord's kingdom is a kingdom of uses
  that is, of ends (n. 454, 696, 1103, 3645, 4054, 7038). Serving
  the Lord is performing uses (n. 7038). Each thing and all
  things in man have been formed for use (n. 3626, 4104, 5189
  9297; also from use, that is, the use is prior to the organic
  forms in man through which the use is performed, because use is
  from the inflowing of the Lord through heaven (n. 4223, 4926).
  Moreover man's interiors, which constitute his mind, when he
  grows to maturity are formed from use and for use (n. 1964,
  6815, 9297). Consequently man is such as are the uses with him
  (n. 1568, 3570, 4054, 6571, 6935, 6938, 10284). Uses are the
  ends for the sake of which (n. 3565, 4054, 4104, 6815). Use is
  the first and the last, thus the all of man (n. 1964).

113. As all things that are in accord with Divine order correspond to heaven, so all things
contrary to Divine order correspond to hell. All things that correspond to heaven have relation
to good and truth; but those that correspond to hell have relation to evil and falsity.

114. Something shall now be said about the knowledge of correspondences and its use. It has
been said above that the spiritual world, which is heaven, is conjoined with the natural world
by means of correspondences; therefore by means of correspondences communication with heaven
is granted to man. For the angels of heaven do not think from natural things, as man does;
but when man has acquired a knowledge of correspondences he is able, in respect to the thoughts
of his mind, to be associated with the angels, and thus in respect to his spiritual or internal
man to be conjoined with them. That there might be such a conjunction of heaven with man the
Word was written wholly by correspondences, each thing and all things in it being correspondent.{1}
If man, therefore, had a knowledge of correspondences he would understand the spiritual sense
of the Word, and from that it would be given him to know arcana of which he sees nothing in
the sense of the letter. For there is a literal sense and there is a spiritual sense in the
Word, the literal sense made up of such things as are in the world, and the spiritual sense
of such things as are in heaven. And such a Word, in which everything down to the least jot
is a correspondence, was given to men because the conjunction of heaven with the world is effected
by means of correspondences.{2}

  {Footnote 1} The Word was written wholly by correspondences (n.
  8615). By means, of the Word man has conjunction with heaven
  (n. 2899, 6943, 9396, 9400, 9401, 10375, 10452).

  {Footnote 2} Concerning the spiritual sense of the Word see the
  little work on The White Horse referred to in the Apocalypse.

115. I have been taught from heaven that the most ancient men on our earth, who were celestial
men, thought from correspondences themselves, the natural things of the world before their
eyes serving them as means of thinking in this way; and that they could be in fellowship with
angels and talk with them because they so thought, and that thus through them heaven was conjoined
to the world. For this reason that period was called the Golden Age, of which it is said by
ancient writers that the inhabitants of heaven dwelt with men and associated with them as friends
with friends. But after this there followed a period when men thought, not from correspondences
themselves, but from a knowledge of correspondences, and there was then also a conjunction
of heaven with man, but less intimate. This period was called the Silver Age. After this there
followed men who had a knowledge of correspondences but did not think from that knowledge,
because they were in natural good, and not, like those before them in spiritual good. This
period was called the Copper Age. After this man gradually became external, and finally corporeal,
and then the knowledge of correspondences was wholly lost, and with it a knowledge of heaven
and of the many things pertaining to heaven. It was from correspondence that these ages were
named from gold, silver, and copper,{1} and for the reason that from correspondence gold signifies
celestial good in which were the most ancient people, silver spiritual good in which were the
ancient people that followed, and copper natural good in which were the next posterity; while
iron, from which the last age takes its name, signifies hard truth apart from good.

  {Footnote 1} Gold from correspondence signifies celestial good
  (n. 113, 1551, 1552, 5658, 6914, 6917, 9510, 9874, 9881).
  Silver signifies spiritual good, that is, truth from a
  celestial origin (n. 1551, 1552, 2954, 5658). Copper signifies
  natural good (n. 425, 1551). Iron signifies truth in the
  outmost of order (n. 425, 426).

116. XIV. THE SUN IN HEAVEN.

In heaven neither the sun of the world, nor anything from that sun, is seen, because it is
wholly natural. For nature has its beginning from that sun, and whatever is produced by means
of it is called natural. But the spiritual, to which heaven belongs, is above nature and wholly
distinct from what is natural; and there is no communication between the two except by correspondences.
What the distinction between them is may be understood from what has been already said about
degrees (n. 38), and what the communication is from what has been said in the two preceding
chapters about correspondences.

117. Although the sun of the world is not seen in heaven, nor anything from that sun, there
is nevertheless a sun there, and light and heat, and all things that are in the world, with
innumerable others, but not from a like origin; since the things in heaven are spiritual, and
those in the world are natural. The sun of heaven is the Lord; the light there is the Divine
truth and the heat the Divine good that go forth from the Lord as a sun. From this origin are
all things that spring forth and are seen in the heavens. This light and heat and things existing
therefrom in heaven will be treated of in the following chapters; in this chapter we will speak
only of the sun there. In heaven the Lord is seen as a sun, for the reason that He is Divine
love, from which all spiritual things, and by means of the sun of the world all natural things,
have their existence. That love is what shines as a sun.

118. That the Lord is actually seen in heaven as a sun I have not only been told by angels,
but it has occasionally been granted me to see it; and therefore what I have heard and seen
respecting the Lord as a sun I shall be glad to tell in a few words. The Lord is seen as a
sun, not in heaven, but high above the heavens; and not directly overhead or in the zenith,
but before the faces of the angels at a middle height. He is seen at a considerable distance,
in two places, one before the right eye and the other before the left eye. Before the right
eye He is seen exactly like a sun, as it were, with a glow and size like that of the sun of
the world. But before the left eye He is not seen as a sun, but as a moon, glowing white like
the moon of our earth, and of like size, but more brilliant, and surrounded with many little
moons, as it were, each of them of similar whiteness and splendor. The Lord is seen so differently
in two places because every person sees the Lord in accordance with the quality of his reception
of the Lord, thus He is seen in one way by those that receive Him with the good of love, and
in another by those that receive Him with the good of faith. Those that receive Him with the
good of love see Him as a sun, fiery and flaming, in accordance with their reception of Him;
these are in His celestial kingdom; while those that receive Him with the good of faith see
Him as a moon, white and brilliant in accordance with their reception of Him, and these are
in His spiritual kingdom.{1} This is so because good of love corresponds to fire; therefore
in the spiritual sense fire is love; and the good of faith corresponds to light, and in the
spiritual sense light is faith.{2} And the Lord appears before the eyes because the interiors,
which belong to the mind, see through the eyes, from good of love through the right eye, and
from good of faith through the left eye;{3} since with angels and also with men all things
at the right correspond to good from which truth is derived, and all at the left to truth that
is from good.{4} Good of faith is in its essence truth from good.

  {Footnote 1} The Lord is seen in heaven as a sun, and is the
  sun of heaven (n. 1053, 3636, 3643, 4060). The Lord is seen as
  a sun by those who are in His celestial kingdom, where love to
  Him reigns, and as a moon by those who are in His spiritual
  kingdom, where charity to the neighbor and faith reign (n.
  1521, 1529-1531, 1837, 4696). The Lord is seen as a sun at a
  middle height before the right eye, and an a moon before the
  left eye (n. 1053, 1521, 1529-1531, 3636, 3643, 4321, 5097,
  7078, 7083, 7173, 7270, 8812, 10809). The Lord is seen as a sun
  and as a moon (n. 1531, 7173). The Lord's Divine Itself is far
  above His Divine in heaven (n. 7270, 8760). Infernal
  fire signifies love of self and of the world and every lust of
  those loves (n. 1861, 5071, 6314, 6832, 7575, 10747). Love is
  the fire of life and life itself is really from it (n. 4906,
  5071, 6032, 6314).

  {Footnote 3} The sight of the left eye corresponds to truths of
  faith, and the sight of the right eye to their goods (n. 4410,
  6923).

  {Footnote 4} The things on man's right have relation to good
  from which is truth, and those on his left to truth from good
  (n. 9495, 9604).

119. 30:26).

     And when I shall extinguish thee I will cover the heavens
     and make the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with
     a cloud, and the moon shall not make her light to shine.
     All luminaries of light in the heavens will I make dark
     over thee, and I will set darkness upon thy land (Ezek.
     32:7, 8).

     I will darken the sun in his going forth, and the moon
     shall not make her light to shine (Isa. The sun shall be turned into
     darkness and the moon into blood (Joel 2:2, 10, 31; 3:16).

     The sun became black as sackcloth and hair, and the moon
     became as blood, and the stars fell unto the earth (Apoc.
     6:12, 13). 24:29).

And elsewhere. In these passages the "sun" signifies love, and the "moon" faith, and the "stars"
knowledges of good and truth.{1} These are said to be darkened, to lose their light, and to
fall from heaven, when they are no more. That the Lord is seen as a sun in heaven is evident
also from His appearance when transfigured before Peter, James, and John,

     That His face did shine as the sun (Matt. 17:2).

These disciples thus saw the Lord when they were withdrawn from the body, and were in the light
of heaven. It was because of this correspondence that the ancient people, with whom was a representative
church, turned the face to the sun in the east when they were in Divine worship; and for the
same reason they gave to their temples an eastern aspect.

  {Footnote 1} "Stars" and "constellations" in the Word signify
  knowledges of good and truth (n. 2495, 2849, 4697).

120. How great the Divine love is and what it is can be seen by comparison with the sun of
the world, that it is most ardent, if you will believe it, much more ardent than that sun.
For this reason the Lord as a sun does not flow without mediums into the heavens, but the ardor
of His love is gradually tempered on the way. These temperings appear as radiant belts about
the sun; furthermore, the angels are veiled with a thin adapting cloud to prevent their being
harmed by the influx.{1} For this reason the heavens are more or less near in accordance with
reception. As the higher heavens are in good of love they are nearest to the Lord as the sun;
and as the lower heavens are in good of faith they are farther away from Him. But those that
are in no good, like those in hell, are farthest away, at different distances in accordance
with their opposition to good.{2}

  {Footnote 1} What the Lord's Divine love is, and how great it
  is, illustrated by comparison with the fire of this world's sun
  (n. 6834, 6849, 8644). The Lord's Divine love is love toward
  the whole human race to save it (n. 1820, 1865, 2253, 6872).
  The love that first goes forth from the fire of the Lord's love
  does not enter heaven, but is seen as radiant belts about the
  sun (n. 7270). The angels are veiled with a corresponding thin
  cloud, to prevent their being harmed by the glow of burning
  love (n. 6849). The Lord appears to each one in accordance
  with what he is (n. 1861, 3235, 4198, 4206). The hells are at a
  distance from the heavens because they cannot bear the presence
  of Divine love from the Lord (n. 4299, 7519, 7738, 7989, 8137,
  8265, 9327). For this reason the hells are very far away from
  the heavens, and this is the "great gulf" (n. 9346, 10187).

121. When, however, the Lord appears in heaven, which often occurs, He does not appear encompassed
with a sun, but in the form of an angel, yet distinguished from angels by the Divine shining
through from His face, since He is not there in person, for in person the Lord is constantly
encompassed by the sun, but He is present by look. For it is a common occurrence in heaven
for persons to appear to be present in a place where their look is fixed or is terminated,
even when this place is far away from where they really are. This presence is called the presence
of internal sight, which will be treated of further on. I have also seen the Lord out of the
sun in an angelic form, at a height a little below the sun; also near by in a like form, with
shining face, and once in the midst of angels as a flame-like radiance.

122. To the angels the sun of the world appears like a dense darkness opposite to the sun of
heaven, and the moon like a darkness opposite to the moon of heaven, and this constantly; and
for the reason that the world's fieriness corresponds to the love of self, and the light from
it corresponds to what is false from that love; and the love of self is the direct opposite
of the Divine love; and what is false from that love is the direct opposite of the Divine truth;
and the opposite of the Divine love and the Divine truth is to the angels thick darkness. Therefore,
in the Word, to worship the sun and moon of this world and bow down to them, signifies to love
self and the falsities that spring from the love of self, and it is said that such would be
cut off. (Deut. 4:19; 16:3-5; Jer. 8:1, 2; Ezek. 8:15, 16, 18; Apoc. 16:8; Matt. 13:6).{1}

  {Footnote 1} The sun of the world is not seen by the angels,
  but in its place something dark behind, opposite to the sun of
  heaven or the Lord (n. 7078, 9755). In the opposite sense the
  sun signifies the love of self (n. 2441); and in this sense "to
  worship the sun" signifies to worship what is contrary to
  heavenly love or to the Lord (n. 2441, 10584). To those in the
  hells the sun of heaven is thick darkness (n. 2441).

123. As it is from the Divine love that is in and from Him that the Lord appears in heaven
like a sun, so all in the heavens are turned constantly to Him those in the celestial kingdom
to Him as a sun and those in the spiritual kingdom to Him as a moon. But those that are in
hell turn themselves to an opposite darkness and dense darkness, that is, they turn backwards,
away from the Lord; and for the reason that all in the hells are in love of self and the world,
thus antagonistic to the Lord. Those who turn themselves to the dense darkness that is in the
place where this world's sun is are in the hells behind, and are called genii; while those
that turn themselves to the darkness that is in the place of the moon are in the hells more
in front, and are called spirits. This is why those in the hells are said to be in darkness,
and those in the heavens in light, "darkness" signifying falsity from evil, and "light" truth
from good. They so turn themselves because all in the other life look towards what rules in
their interiors, thus to their loves; and with angels and spirits the interiors determine the
face; and in the spiritual world quarters are not fixed, as in the natural world, but are determined
by the face. In respect to his spirit man turns himself in like manner as a spirit does, backwards
from the Lord if he is in love of self and the world, and towards the Lord if he is in love
to the Lord and the neighbor. But of this man is ignorant, because he is in the natural world
where quarters are determined by the rising and setting of the sun. But as this cannot be easily
comprehended by men it will be elucidated hereafter when Quarters, Space, and Time in Heaven
are treated of.

124. Because the Lord is the sun of heaven and everything that is from Him looks to Him, He
is also the common center, the source of all direction and determination.{1} So, too, all things
beneath are in His presence and under His auspices, both in the heavens and on the earths.

  {Footnote 1} The Lord is the common center to which all things
  of heaven turn (n. 3633, 3641).

125. From all this what has been said and shown in previous chapters about the Lord may now
be seen in clearer light, namely:

     That He is the God of heaven (n. 2-6).

     That it is His Divine that makes heaven (n. 7-12).

     That the Lord's Divine in heaven is love to Him and
     charity towards the neighbor (n. 13-19).

     That there is a correspondence of all things of the world
     with heaven, and through heaven with the Lord (n. 87-115).

     Also that the sun and moon of the world are
     correspondences (n. 105).

126. XV. LIGHT AND HEAT IN HEAVEN.

That there is light in the heavens those who think from nature alone cannot comprehend; and
yet such is the light in the heavens that it exceeds by many degrees the noon-day light of
the world. That light I have often seen, even during the evening and night. At first I wondered
when I heard the angels say that the light of this world is little more than a shadow in comparison
with the light of heaven; but having seen it I can testify that it is so. The brightness and
splendor of the light of heaven are such as cannot be described. All things that I have seen
in the heavens have been seen in that light, thus more clearly and distinctly than things in
this world.

127. The light of heaven is not a natural light, like the light of the world, but a spiritual
light, because it is from the Lord as a sun, and that sun is the Divine love (as has been shown
in the foregoing chapter). That which goes forth from the Lord as a sun is called in the heavens
Divine truth, but in its essence it is Divine good united to Divine truth. From this the angels
have light and heat, light from Divine truth, and heat from Divine good. As the light of heaven,
and the heat also, are from such a source, it is evident that they are spiritual and not natural.{1}

  {Footnote 1} All light in the heavens is from the Lord as a sun
  (n. 1053, 1521, 3195, 3341, 3636, 3643, 4415, 9548, 9684,
  10809). The Divine truth that goes forth from the Lord appears
  in heaven as light, and furnishes all the light of heaven (n.
  3195, 3222, 3223, 5400, 8644, 9399, 9548, 9684).

128. The Divine truth is light to the angels because the angels are spiritual and not natural.
Spiritual beings see from their sun, and natural beings from theirs. It is from Divine truth
that angels have understanding, and their understanding is their inner sight, which flows into
and produces their outer sight; therefore in heaven whatever is seen from the Lord as the sun
is seen in light.{1} This being the source of light in heaven the light is varied there in
accordance with the reception of Divine truth from the Lord; or what is the same, in accordance
with the intelligence and wisdom in which the angels are, thus differently in the celestial
kingdom and in the spiritual kingdom, and differently in each society. In the celestial kingdom
the light appears flaming because the angels there receive light from the Lord as a sun; but
in the spiritual kingdom the light is shining white, because the angels there receive light
from the Lord as a moon (see above, n. 118). So, too, the light differs in different societies,
and again in each society, those that are at the center being in greater light and those in
the circumference in less light (see n. 43). In a word, the angels have light in the same degree
in which they are recipients of Divine truth, that is, are in intelligence and wisdom from
the Lord;{2} and this is why the angels of heaven are called angels of light.

  {Footnote 1} The light of heaven illumines both the sight and
  the understanding of angels and spirits (n. 2776, 3138).

  {Footnote 2} The light in heaven is in harmony with the
  intelligence and wisdom of the angels (n. 1524, 1529, 1530,
  3339). Differences of light in the heavens are as many as there
  are angelic societies; and as there are in the heavens endless
  varieties of good and truth, so are there of wisdom and
  intelligence (n. 684, 690, 3241, 3744, 3745, 4414, 5598, 7236,
  7833, 7836).

129.

     As long as I am in the world I am the light of the world
     (John 9:5).

     Jesus said, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk
     while ye have the light, lest darkness overtake you. While
     ye have the light believe in the light, that ye may be
     sons of light. I have come a light into the world, that
     whosoever believeth in Me may not abide in darkness (John
     12:35, 36, 46).

John says of the Lord:

     This is the true light which lighteneth every man (John
     1:9).

     The people that sit in darkness have seen a great light,
     and to them that were sitting in the shadow of death light
     is sprung up (Matt. 4:16).

     I will give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light
     of the Gentiles (Isa. 13:6). 19:6).

     The nations of them that are saved shall walk in His light
     (Apoc. 21:24).

     Send out Thy light and Thy truth; let them lead me (Psalm
     43:3).

In these and other passages the Lord is called light from Divine truth, which is from Him;
and the truth itself is likewise called light. As light in the heavens is from the Lord as
a sun, so when He was transfigured before Peter, James, and John:

     His face did shine as the sun, and His raiment was white
     as the light (Matt. 17:2).

     And His garments became shining, exceeding white as snow,
     so as no fuller on earth can whiten them (Mark 9:3; Matt.
     17:2).

The Lord's garments had this appearance because they represented Divine truth which is from
Him in the heavens, "garments" also in the Word signifying truths,{1} consequently it is said
in David:

     O Jehovah, Thou coverest Thyself with light as with a
     garment (Psalm 104:2).

  {Footnote 1} In the Word "garments" signify truths, because
  truths clothe good (n. 1073, 2576, 5248, 5319, 5954, 9216,
  9952, 10536). The Lord's garments when He was transfigured
  signified Divine truth going forth from His Divine love (n.
  9212, 9216).

130. That light in the heavens is spiritual and that this light is Divine truth may be inferred
also from the fact that men as well as angels have spiritual light, and have enlightenment
from that light so far as they are in intelligence and wisdom from Divine truth. Man's spiritual
light is the light of his understanding, and the objects of that light are truths, which he
arranges analytically into groups, forms into reason, and from them draws conclusions in series.{1}
The natural man does not know that the light from which the understanding sees such things
is a real light, for he neither sees it with his eyes nor perceives it by thought. And yet
there are many who recognize this light, and distinguish it from the natural light in which
those are who think naturally and not spiritually. Those think naturally who take account of
the world only, and attribute all things to nature; while those think spiritually who take
account of heaven and attribute all things to the Divine. It has often been granted me to perceive
and also to see that there is a true light that enlightens the mind, wholly distinct from the
light that is called natural light [lumen]. I have been raised up interiorly into that light
by degrees; and as I was raised up my understanding became so enlightened as to enable me to
perceive what I did not perceive before, and finally such things as I could not even comprehend
by thought from natural light. Sometimes I felt indignant that I could not comprehend these
things when they were so clearly and plainly perceived in the light of heaven.{2} Because there
is a light that belongs to the understanding, the same things are said of it as of the eye,
as that it sees and is in light when it perceives, and is in obscurity and shade when it does
not perceive, and so on.

  {Footnote 1} Man is rational because his understanding is
  illumined by the light of heaven (n. 1524, 3138, 3167, 4408,
  6608, 8707, 9128, 9399, 10569). The understanding is
  enlightened because it is a recipient of truth (n. 6222, 6608,
  10659). The understanding is enlightened to the extent that man
  receives truth in good from the lord (n. 3619). The
  understanding is such as are the truths from good by which it
  is formed (n. 10064). The understanding has light from heaven,
  as the sight has light from the world (n. 1524, 5114, 6608,
  9128). The light of heaven from the Lord is always present with
  man, but it flows in only in the degree that man is in truth
  from good (n. 4060, 4214).

  {Footnote 2} When man is raised up from the sensual he comes
  into a milder light, and at length into heavenly light (n.
  6313, 6315, 9407). When man is raised up into intelligence
  there is an actual elevation into the light of heaven (n.
  3190). How great a light was perceived when I was withdrawn
  from worldly ideas (n. 1526, 6608).

131. As the light of heaven is Divine truth, that light is also Divine wisdom and intelligence;
therefore to be raised up into the light of heaven means the same as to be raised up into intelligence
and wisdom and enlightened. For this reason the angels have light in just the same degree as
they have intelligence and wisdom. Because the light of heaven is Divine wisdom, in that light
the character of everyone is recognized. The interiors of everyone lie open to view in his
face just as they are, with not the least thing hidden. And interior angels love to have all
things that pertain to them lying open, since they will nothing but good. It is otherwise with
those beneath heaven, who do not will what is good, and for that reason fear greatly to be
seen in the light of heaven. And wonderful to tell, while those in hell appear to one another
as men, in the light of heaven they appear as monsters, with a horrid face and body, the exact
form of their own evil.{1} In respect to his spirit man appears, when seen by angels, in a
like way; if good as a man, beautiful in accord with his good; if evil as a monster, ugly in
accord with his evil. From this it is clear that in the light of heaven all things are made
manifest, and for the reason that the light of heaven is Divine truth.

  {Footnote 1} Those in the hells, in their own light, which is
  like the light from burning coals, appear to themselves as men
  but in the light of heaven they appear as monsters (n. 4531,
  4533, 4674, 5057, 5058, 6605, 6626).

132. As Divine truth is light in the heavens, so all truths wherever they are, whether within
an angel or outside of him, or whether within the heavens or outside of them, emit light. Nevertheless,
truths outside of the heavens do not shine as truths within the heavens do. Truths outside
of the heavens shine coldly, like something snowy, without heat, because they do not draw their
essence from good, as truths within the heavens do; therefore that cold light vanishes as soon
as the light of heaven falls on it, and if there is evil underneath it it is turned into darkness.
This I have occasionally seen, with many other noteworthy things about the shining of truth,
which must be omitted here.

133. Something shall now be said about the heat of heaven. That heat in its essence is love.
It goes forth from the Lord as a sun, which is Divine love in the Lord and from the Lord, as
has been shown in the preceding chapter. It is evident, therefore, that the heat of heaven,
like the light of heaven, is spiritual, because from the same source.{1} There are two things
that go forth from the Lord as a sun, Divine truth and Divine good; Divine truth is manifested
in the heavens as light, and Divine good as heat; and yet Divine truth and Divine good are
so united that they are not two, but one. Nevertheless, with angels they are separate, for
there are angels that receive more of Divine good than of Divine truth, and there are those
that receive more of Divine truth than of Divine good. Those who receive more of Divine good
are in the Lord's celestial kingdom, and those who receive more of Divine truth are in His
spiritual kingdom. Those that receive both in a like degree are the most perfect angels.

  {Footnote 1} There are two sources of heat and also two sources
  of light, the sun of the world and the sun of heaven (n. 3338,
  5215, 7324). Heat from the Lord as a sun is affection of love
  (n. 3636, 3643). Therefore spiritual heat in its essence is
  love (n. 2146, 3338, 3339, 6314).

134. The heat of heaven, like the light of heaven, is everywhere different. It is different
in the celestial kingdom from what it is in the spiritual kingdom, and it is different in each
society therein. It differs both in degree and in quality. It is more intense and more pure
in the Lord's celestial kingdom, because the angels there receive more of Divine good; and
it is less intense and pure in His spiritual kingdom, because the angels there receive more
of Divine truth. Also in each society the heat differs in accordance with reception. There
is heat in the hells, but it is unclean heat.{1} The heat in heaven is what is meant by holy
and heavenly fire, and the heat of hell by profane and infernal fire. Both mean love--heavenly
fire meaning love to the Lord and love to the neighbor and every affection of those loves,
and infernal fire meaning love of self and love of the world and every lust of those loves.
That love is heat from a spiritual source is shown from one's growing warm with love; for in
accordance with the strength and nature of his love a man is inflamed and grows warm; and the
heat of his love is made manifest when it is opposed. From this also it is customary to speak
of being inflamed, growing hot, burning, boiling, being on fire, both in regard to the affections
of the love of good and the lusts of the love of evil.

  {Footnote 1} There is heat in the hells, but it is unclean (n.
  1773, 2757, 3340). The odor from it is like the odor from dung
  and excrement in the world and in the worst hells like the odor
  of dead bodies (n. 814, 815, 817, 819, 820, 943, 944, 5394).

135. Love going forth from the Lord as a sun is felt in heaven as heat, because the interiors
of the angels are in a state of love from the Divine good that is from the Lord; and in consequence
their exteriors which grow warm therefrom are in a state of heat. For this reason heat and
love so correspond to each other in heaven that everyone there is in heat such as his love
is, according to what has been said just above. This world's heat does not enter heaven at
all, because it is too gross, and is natural, and not spiritual; but with men it is otherwise,
because they are in both the spiritual world and the natural world. As to their spirits they
grow warm in exact accordance with their loves; but as to the body they grow warm both from
the heat of their spirit and from the heat of the world. The former flows into the latter,
because they correspond. The nature of the correspondence of the two kinds of heat can be seen
from animal life, in that the love of animals-the chief of which is the love of propagating
offspring of their kind-bursts forth and becomes active in accordance with the presence and
influence of heat from the sun of the world, which is the heat of the spring and the summer
seasons. Those who believe that the world's heat flows in and excites these loves are greatly
mistaken, for there can be no influx from the natural into the spiritual, but only from the
spiritual into the natural. This influx is of Divine order, but the other would be contrary
to Divine order.{1}

  {Footnote 1} There is spiritual influx, but not physical, that
  is, there is influx from the spiritual world into the natural,
  but not from the natural world into the spiritual (n. 3219,
  5119, 5259, 5427, 5428, 5477, 6322, 9109, 9110, 9111).

136. Angels, like men, have understanding and will. The light of heaven constitutes the life
of their understanding, because that light is Divine truth and Divine wisdom therefrom; and
the heat of heaven constitutes the life of their will, because that heat is Divine good and
Divine love therefrom. The veriest life of the angels is from heat, and from light only so
far as heat is in it. That life is from heat is shown by the fact that when heat is taken away
life perishes. The same is true of faith without love or of truth without good; since the truth
that is called truth of faith is light, and the good that is called good of love is heat. {1}
This is more clearly shown by the heat and light of the world, to which the heat and light
of heaven correspond. By the world's heat when conjoined with light, as in spring and summer,
all things on the earth are quickened and grow, but by light separate from heat nothing is
quickened or grows, but everything lies torpid and dies. They are not conjoined in winter,
when heat is absent though light remains. From this correspondence heaven is called paradise,
since truth is there joined with good, or faith with love, as light is with heat in springtime
on the earth. All this makes more clear the truth set forth in its own chapter (n. 13-19),
that the Divine of the Lord in Heaven is love to Him and charity towards the neighbor.

  {Footnote 1} Truths apart from good are not in themselves
  truths because they have no life; for truths have all their
  life from good (n. 9603). Thus truths apart from good are like
  a body without a soul (n. 3180, 9154). Truths apart from good
  are not accepted by the Lord (n. 4368). What truth apart from
  good, that is, what faith apart from love is, and what truth
  from good or faith from love is (n. 1949-1951, 1964, 5830,
  5951). It amounts to the same thing whether you say truth or
  faith, or whether you say good or love, since truth is of faith
  and good is of love (n. 2839, 4352, 4353, 4997, 7178, 7623,
  7624, 10367).

137. It is said in John:

     In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God,
     and God was the Word. All things were made through Him,
     and without Him was not any thing made that hath been
     made. In Him was life, and the life was the light of men.
     He was in the world, and the world was made through Him.
     And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we
     beheld His glory (1:1-14).

Evidently the Lord is here meant by "the Word," for it is said that "the Word became flesh."
But what is specifically meant by "the Word" is not known and shall therefore be explained.
Here "the Word" means the Divine truth which is in the Lord and from the Lord;{1} and this
is why it is also called "the Light," which is the Divine truth, as has been already shown
in this chapter. That it was by means of Divine truth that all things were created and made
shall now be explained. [2] In heaven Divine truth has all power, and apart from it there is
no power whatever.{2} From the Divine truth angels are called powers, and are powers to the
extent that they are recipients or receptacles of it. By means of it they prevail over the
hells and over all that oppose them. A thousand enemies there cannot stand against a single
ray of the light of heaven, which is Divine truth. As angels are angels by their reception
of Divine truth it follows that the entire heaven is from no other source, since heaven consists
of angels. [3] That there is such power in Divine truth those cannot believe that have no other
idea of truth than that it is thought or speech, which has in it no power except as others
do it from obedience. But Divine truth has power in itself, and such power that by means of
it heaven was created and the world with all things therein. That there is such power in Divine
truth may be shown by two comparisons-by the power of truth and good in man, and by the power
of light and heat from the sun in the world. By the power of good and truth in man, in that
everything that a man does he does from his understanding and will-from his will by means of
good and from his understanding by means of truth; for all things in the will have relation
to good and all things in the understanding have relation to truth.{3} Therefore it is from
good and truth that man moves his whole body, and a thousand things therein rush with one accord
to do their will and pleasure. This makes clear that the whole body is formed for subservience
to good and truth, consequently is formed by good and truth. [4] By the power of heat and light
from the sun in the world, in that all things that grow in the world, as trees, cereals, flowers,
grasses, fruits, and seeds, come into existence wholly by means of the heat and light of the
sun; which shows what power of producing there is in them. What, then, must be the power in
Divine light, which is Divine truth, and in Divine heat, which is Divine good? Because heaven
has its existence from these, so does the world have its existence therefrom, since the world
has its existence by means of heaven, as has been already shown. From all this the meaning
of these words can be seen that "all things were made through the Word, and without the Word
was not anything made that has been made;" also that "the world was made through Him," that
is, through Divine truth from the Lord.{4} For the same reason, in the Book of Creation, light
is first spoken of, and then the things that are from light (Gen. 1:3, 4). For this reason
also all things in the universe, both in heaven and in the world, have relation to good and
truth and to their conjunction, in order to be anything.

  {Footnote 1} In the Sacred Scripture word signifies various
  things, namely, speech, thought of the mind, any thing that
  really exists, also something, and in the highest sense Divine
  truth, and the Lord (n. 9987). "Word" signifies Divine truth
  (n. 2803, 2894, 4692, 5075, 5272, 9383, 9987). "Word" signifies
  the Lord (n. 2533, 2859).

  {Footnote 2} Divine truth going forth from the Lord has all
  power (n. 6948, 8200). Truth from good has all power in heaven
  (n. 3091, 3563, 6344, 6423, 8304, 9643, 10019, 10182). Angels
  are called powers, and are powers by the reception of Divine
  truth from the Lord (n. 9639). Angels are recipients of Divine
  truth from the Lord and therefore in the Word are sometimes
  called gods (n. 4295, 4402, 7873, 8192, 8301).

  {Footnote 3} The understanding is a recipient of truth, and the
  will a recipient of good (n. 3623, 6125, 7503, 9300, 9930).
  Therefore all things in the understanding have relation to
  truths, whether they are really truths or are believed by man
  to be truths, and all things in the will in like manner have
  relation to goods (n. 803, 10122).

  {Footnote 4} Divine truth going forth from the Lord is the only
  real thing (n. 6880, 7004, 8200). By means of Divine truth all
  things were created and made (n. 2803, 2884, 5272, 7678).

139.{1} It must be understood that the Divine good and the Divine truth that are from the Lord
as a sun in the heavens are not in the Lord, but are from the Lord. In the Lord there is only
Divine love, which is the Being [Esse] from which the Divine good and the Divine truth spring.
Outgo [existere] from being [esse] is meant by going forth [procedere]. This, too, can be made
clear by comparison with the world's sun. The heat and light that are in the world are not
in the sun, but are from the sun. In the sun there is fire only, and it is from this that heat
and light spring and go forth.

  {Footnote 1} [There is no n. 138 in the original. -- Editor.]

140. Since the Lord as a sun is Divine love, and Divine love is Divine good itself, the Divine
that goes forth from the Lord, which is His Divine in heaven, is called, for the sake of distinction,
Divine truth, although it is in fact Divine good united to Divine truth. This Divine truth
is what is called the Holy that goes forth from Him.

141. XVI. THE FOUR QUARTERS IN HEAVEN.

Both in heaven and in the world there are four quarters, east, south, west, and north, determined
in each world by its own sun; in heaven by the sun of heaven, which is the Lord, in the world
by the sun of the world. And yet there are great differences between them. In the first place,
in the world that is called the south where the sun is in its greatest altitude above the earth,
north where it is in its opposite position beneath the earth, east where it rises at an equinox,
and west where it then sets. Thus in the world it is from the south that all the quarters are
determined. But in heaven that is called the east where the Lord is seen as a sun, opposite
to this is the west, at the right is the south in heaven, and at the left the north; and this
in whatever direction the face and the body are turned. Thus in heaven it is from the east
that all the quarters are determined. That is called the east [oriens] where the Lord is seen
as a sun, because all origin [origo] of life is from Him as a sun; moreover, so far as angels
receive heat and light or love and intelligence from the Lord He is said to arise [exoriri]
upon them. For the same reason the Lord is called the East [Oriens] in the Word.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In the highest sense the Lord is the east
  [oriens], because He is the sun of heaven, which is always
  rising and never setting (n. 101, 5097, 9668).

142. Another difference is that to the angels the east is always before the face, the west
behind, the south to the right, and the north to the left. But since this cannot be easily
comprehended in the world, for the reason that men turn the face to every quarter, it shall
be explained. The entire heaven turns itself to the Lord as to its common center; to that center
do all the angels turn themselves. Also on the earth, as is well known, there is a directing
of all things towards a common center; but there is this difference between this directing
in the world and that in heaven, that in heaven the front parts are turned to the common center,
but in the world the lower parts of the body. In the world this directing is called centripetal
force, also gravitation. The interiors of angels are actually turned forwards; and since interiors
manifest themselves in the face it is the face that determines the quarters.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In heaven all turn themselves to the Lord (n.
  9828, 10130, 10189, 10420). Nevertheless, it is not the angels
  that turn themselves to the Lord, but the Lord turns the angels
  to Himself (n. 10189). It is not that the angels are present
  with the Lord, but the Lord is present with the angels (n.
  9415).

143. It is still more difficult to comprehend in the world that in every turning of their face
and body the angels have the east before the face, since man according as he turns, has every
quarter before his face. This shall also be explained. Although angels, like men, turn and
direct their faces and bodies in every direction, they nevertheless have the east always before
their eyes. But the turnings of angels are unlike the turnings of men, because they are from
a different origin. They appear alike, but they are not. The origin of these turnings is their
ruling love, and from this all directions with angels and spirits are determined, for, as just
said, their interiors are actually turned towards their common center, which in heaven is the
Lord as a sun; consequently their ruling love is always before their face, because their love
is always before their interiors, and the face has existence from the interiors, for it is
their outward form; and in the heavens this love is the Lord as a sun because it is from Him
that they have their love.{1} And as the Lord Himself is in angels in His love, it is the Lord
who causes them to look to Him whithersoever they turn. This cannot be explained any farther
now; but it will be made clearer to the understanding in subsequent chapters, especially where
representations and appearances, and time and space in heaven, are treated of. That the angels
have the Lord constantly before their faces it has been granted me to know and also to perceive
from much experience; for whenever I have been in company with angels I have noticed the Lord's
presence before my face, not actually seen, and yet perceptible in a light; and angels have
often testified that this is so. As the Lord is constantly before the faces of the angels,
so it is said in the world of those who believe in the Lord and love Him that they have God
before their eyes and their face, and that they look to God, and see God. These expressions
have their origin in the spiritual world, from which are many things in human speech, although
their source is unknown to men.

  {Footnote 1} In the spiritual world all constantly turn
  themselves to their loves; and the quarters there have their
  beginning in the face and are determined by it (n. 10130,
  10189, 10420, 10702). The face is formed to a correspondence
  with the interiors (n. 4791-4805, 5695). Therefore the
  interiors shine forth from the face (n. 3527, 4066, 4796). With
  angels the face makes one with the interiors (n. 4796, 4797,
  4799, 5695, 8250). The influx of the interiors into the face
  and its muscles (n. 3631, 4800).

144. This turning to the Lord is among the wonderful things in heaven. There may be many together
in one place, some turning the face and body one way and some another, and yet all see the
Lord before them, and have everyone has the south at his right, the north at his left, and
the west behind him. Another wonderful thing is that, although the angels look only to the
east they have also a look towards the other three quarters; but the look to these is from
their interior sight, which pertains to their thought. And it is yet another wonderful thing
that in heaven no one is ever permitted to stand behind another and look at the back of his
head, for this would disturb the influx of good and truth from the Lord.

145. The Lord is seen by the angels, and the angels are seen by the Lord in another way. Angels
see the Lord through their eyes; but the Lord sees the angels in the forehead, and this for
the reason that the forehead corresponds to love, and it is through love that the Lord flows
into their will, while it is through the understanding, to which the eyes correspond, that
He causes Himself to be seen.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The forehead corresponds to heavenly love;
  therefore in the Word the "forehead" signifies that love (n.
  9936). The eye corresponds to the understanding, because the
  understanding is internal sight (n. 2701, 4410, 4526, 9051,
  10569). For this reason "to lift up the eyes" and "to see"
  signifies to understand, perceive, and observe (n. 2789, 2829,
  3198, 3202, 4083, 4086, 4339, 5684).

146. The quarters in the heavens that give form to the Lord's celestial kingdom differ from
the quarters in the heavens that give form to His spiritual kingdom, for the reason that He
is seen by the angels in His celestial kingdom as a sun, but by the angels in His spiritual
kingdom as a moon; and where the Lord is seen is the east. The distance there between the position
of the sun and that of the moon is thirty degrees, and there is a like difference in the position
of the quarters. But it does not follow that the quarters of heaven become confused on this
account, for neither can the spiritual angels ascend among the celestial angels, nor the celestial
descend among the spiritual, as may be seen above (n. 35).

147. This makes clear the nature of the Lord's presence in the heavens, that He is every where
and with everyone in the good and truth that go forth from Him; consequently He is with angels
in what is His own, as has been said above (n. 12). The perception of the Lord's presence is
in their interiors; and it is from these that their eyes see, and it is by this continuity
that they see the Lord outside of themselves. This shows what is meant by the Lord's being
in them and they in Him, according to His own words:

     Abide in Me and I in you (John 15:4).

     He that eateth My flesh and drinketh My blood abideth in
     Me and I in him (John 6:56).

"The Lord's flesh" signifies Divine good and "His blood" Divine truth.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In the Word "the Lord's flesh" signifies His
  Divine Human, and the Divine good of His love (n. 3813, 7850,
  9127, 10283). And "the Lord's blood" signifies Divine truth and
  the holy of faith (n. 4735, 4978, 6978, 7317, 7326, 7846, 7850,
  7877, 9127, 9393, 10026, 10033, 10152, 10210).

148. All in the heavens have their own places of abode in accordance with the quarters. Those
who are in the good of love dwell towards the east and west, those who are in clear perception
of it towards the east, and those who are in obscure perception of it towards the west. Those
who are in wisdom from the good of love dwell towards the south and north-those who are in
the clear light of wisdom towards the south, and those who are in obscure light of it towards
the north. The angels of the Lord's spiritual kingdom and those of His celestial kingdom dwell
in a like order, but differently as their good of love and light of truth from good differ;
for in the celestial kingdom the love is love to the Lord, and the light of truth therefrom
is wisdom; while in the spiritual kingdom there is love towards the neighbor, which is called
charity, and the light of truth therefrom is intelligence, which is also called faith (see
above, n. 23). The quarters differ also in the two kingdoms by thirty degrees, as has been
said just above (n. 146).

149. In like order the angels in each society in heaven dwell in relation to one another-towards
the east there those who are in greater degree of love and charity, towards the west those
who are in less degree; towards the south those who are in greater light of wisdom and intelligence,
and towards the north those who are in less. This arrangement prevails because each society
represents heaven, and is a heaven in a smaller form (see above, n. 51-58). The same arrangement
prevails in their assemblies. They are brought into this order by virtue of the form of heaven,
from which everyone knows his own place. The Lord also provides that there be in each society
those of every kind, for the reason that in form heaven is every where like itself; and yet
the arrangement of the whole heaven differs from the arrangement of a society as what is general
from its parts, since the societies towards the east surpass those towards the west, and those
towards the south surpass those towards the north.

150. Because of this the quarters in the heavens signify such things as pertain to those that
dwell in them,--the east signifying love and its good clearly perceived, the west the same
obscurely perceived, the south wisdom and intelligence in clear light, and the north the same
in obscure light. And because of this signification of the quarters in heaven they have a like
signification in the internal or spiritual sense of the Word,{1} since the internal or spiritual
sense of the Word is in entire accord with what is in heaven.

  {Footnote 1} In the Word the "east" signifies love clearly
  perceived (n. 1250, 3708); the "west" love obscurely perceived
  (n. 3708, 9653); the "south" a state of light, that is, of
  wisdom and intelligence (n. 1458, 3708, 5672); and the "north"
  that state in obscurity (n. 3708).

151. The reverse is true of those in the hells. Those who are there do not look to the Lord
as a sun nor as a moon; but they look backward away from the Lord to that dense darkness that
is in the place of the sun of the world, and to the darkness that is in the place of the earth's
moon. Those that are called genii look to that dense darkness that is in the place of the world's
sun, and those called spirits look to the darkness that is in the place of the earth's moon.{1}
It has been shown above (n. 122) that the world's sun and the earth's moon are not seen in
the spiritual world, but in place of that sun a dense darkness over against the sun of heaven,
and in place of that moon a darkness over against the moon of heaven. For this reason the quarters
with those in the hells are opposite to the quarters of heaven. The east to them is where that
dense darkness and darkness are, the west is where the sun of heaven is, the south is to their
right, and the north to their left, and this also in every turning of their bodies. Nor can
they face otherwise, because the whole bent and consequent determination of their interiors
tends and strives that way. It has been shown above (n. 143) that the bent and consequent actual
determination of the interiors of all in the other life are in harmony with their love. The
love of those in the hells is the love of self and the world, and these loves are what are
signified by the world's sun and the earth's moon (see n. 122); and these loves are opposite
to love to the Lord and love towards the neighbor;{2} and this is the cause of their turning
themselves backwards away from the Lord to this dense darkness. Moreover, those in the hells
dwell likewise in accordance with their quarters, those who are in evil from love of self dwelling
from their east to their west, and those who are in the falsities of evil from their south
to their north. But more will be said about this below, where the hells are treated of.

  {Footnote 1} Who and what those are who are called genii, and
  who and what those are who are called spirits (n. 947, 5035,
  5977, 8593, 8622, 8625).

  {Footnote 2} Those that are in the loves of self and of the
  world turn themselves backwards from the Lord (n. 10130, 10189,
  10420, 10702). Love to the Lord and charity towards the
  neighbor make heaven, while love of self and love of the world
  make hell, because the two are opposite (n. 2041, 3610, 4225,
  4776 6210, 7366, 7369, 7490, 8232, 8678, 10455, 10741-10745).

152. When an evil spirit comes among good spirits the quarters are usually so confused that
the good scarcely know where their east is. This I have sometimes seen take place, and have
also heard about it from spirits who complained of it.

153. Evil spirits are sometimes seen turned towards the quarters of heaven; and they then have
intelligence and perception of truth, but no affection for good; but as soon as they turn back
to their own quarters they have no intelligence or perception of truth; and then they declare
that the truths they heard and perceived are falsities and not truths, and they wish falsities
to be truths. In respect to this turning I have been told that with the evil the intellectual
part of the mind can be so turned, but not the voluntary part; and that this is provided by
the Lord to the end that everyone may have the ability to see and acknowledge truths, but that
no one can receive truths unless he is in good, since it is good, and never evil, that receives
them; also that man has a like ability to the end that he may be made better by means of truths.
Nevertheless, he is made better only so far as he is in good; consequently a man can in like
manner be turned to the Lord; but if his life is evil he immediately turns himself back and
confirms in himself the falsities of his evil, which are contrary to the truths he had understood
and seen; and this takes place when he thinks in himself from his interior states.

154. XVII. CHANGES OF STATE OF THE ANGELS IN HEAVEN.

By changes of state of angels their changes in respect to love and faith, and wisdom and intelligence
therefrom, are meant, thus their changes in respect to states of life. States are predicated
of life and of what belongs to life; and as angelic life is a life of love and faith, and of
wisdom and intelligence therefrom, states are predicated of these and are called states of
love and faith, and states of wisdom and intelligence. How with angels these states are changed
shall now be told.

155. Angels are not constantly in the same state in respect to love, and in consequence in
the same state in respect to wisdom; for all their wisdom is from their love and in accordance
with their love. Sometimes they are in a state of intense love, sometimes in a state of love
not so intense. The state decreases by degrees from its greatest degree to its least. When
in their greatest degree of love they are in the light and warmth of their life, or in a clear
and delightful state; but in their least degree they are in shade and cold, or in an obscure
and undelightful state. From this last state they return again to the first, and so on, these
alternations following one after another with variety. There is a sequence of these states
like the varied states of light and shade, or of heat and cold, or like morning, noon, evening,
and night, day after day in the world, with unceasing variety throughout the year. There is
also a correspondence, morning corresponding to the state of their love in its clearness, noon
to the state of their wisdom in its clearness, evening to the state of their wisdom in its
obscurity, and night to a state of no love or wisdom. But it must be understood that there
is no correspondence of night with the states of life of those in heaven, although there is
what corresponds to the dawn that precedes morning; what corresponds to night is with those
in hell.{1} From this correspondence "day" and "year" signify in the Word states of life in
general; "heat" and "light" signify love and wisdom; "morning" the first and highest degree
of love "noon" wisdom in its light; "evening" wisdom in its shade; "dawn" the obscurity that
precedes the morning; and "night" the absence of love and wisdom.{2}

  {Footnote 1} In heaven there is a state corresponding to the
  dawn that precedes morning, but no state corresponding to night
  (n. 6110). The "dawn" signifies a middle state between the last
  and the first (n. 10134).

  {Footnote 2} Alternations of state in respect to enlightenment
  and perception occur in heaven, like the times of day in the
  world (n. 5672, 5962, 6110, 8426, 9213, 10605). In the Word
  "day" and "year" signify all states in general (n. 23, 487,
  488, 493, 893, 2788, 3462, 4850, 10656). "Morning" signifies
  the beginning of a new state, and a state of love (n. 7218,
  8426, 8427, 10114, 10134). "Evening" signifies a state of
  declining light and love (n. 10134, 10135). "Night" signifies a
  state of no love or faith (n. 221, 709, 2353, 6000, 6110, 7870,
  7947).

156. Together with the state of the angels' interiors which pertain to their love and wisdom,
the states of various things that are outside of them and that they see with their eyes are
changed; for the things outside of them take on an appearance that is in accord with the things
within them. But what things these are, and what kind of things they are, shall be told presently
in the chapter on Representatives and Appearances in Heaven.

157. Every angel undergoes and passes through such changes of state, and also every society
in general, and yet each one differently, for the reason that they differ in love and wisdom,
those in the middle being in a more perfect state than those round about even to the circumference
(see above, n. 43, 128). But it would be tedious to specify the differences, since the changes
each one undergoes are in accord with the quality of his love and faith. From this it happens
that while one may be in clearness and delight another may be in obscurity and lack of delight,
and this at the same time within the same society. So, too, the state differs in different
societies; it is different in the societies of the celestial kingdom from what it is in those
of the spiritual kingdom. These differences in the changes of state are in general like the
variations of the states of days in different climates on the earth, for with some it is morning
when with others it is evening, and with some it is hot when with others it is cold.

158. I have been taught from heaven why there are such changes of state there. The angels said
that there are many reasons-first, the delight of life and of heaven, which they have from
love and wisdom from the Lord, would gradually lose its value if they were in it continually,
as happens with those that are in allurements and pleasures without variety. A second reason
is that angels, as well as men, have what is their own [proprium], which is loving self; and
all that are in heaven are withheld from what is their own, and so far as they are withheld
from it by the Lord are in love and wisdom; but so far as they are not withheld they are in
the love of self; and because everyone loves what is his own and is drawn by it{1} they have
changes of state or successive alternations. A third reason is that they are in this way perfected,
for they thus become accustomed to being held in love to the Lord and withheld from love of
self; also that by alternations between delight and lack of delight the perception and sense
of good becomes more exquisite.{2} The angels added that their changes of state are not caused
by the Lord, since the Lord as a sun is unceasingly flowing in with heat and light, that is,
with love and wisdom; but the cause is in themselves, in that they love what is their own,
and this continually leads them away. This was illustrated by comparison with the sun of the
world, that the cause of the changes of state of heat and cold and of light and shade, year
by year and day by day, is not in that sun, since it stands unchanged, but the cause is in
the earth.

  {Footnote 1} Man's own [proprium] is loving self (n. 694, 731,
  4317, 5660). The Lord cannot be present unless what is man's
  own is set aside (n. 1023, 1044). It is actually set aside when
  one is held in good by the Lord (n. 9334-9336, 9447, 9452-9454,
  9938).

  {Footnote 2} The angels are being perfected to eternity (n.
  4803, 6648). In the heavens one state is never just like
  another, and from this there is an unceasing process of
  perfection (n. 10200).

159. I have been shown how the Lord as a sun appears to the angels of the celestial kingdom
in their first state, in their second state, and in their third state. I saw the Lord as a
sun, at first glowing and brilliant with a splendor that cannot be described; and I was told
that such is the appearance of the Lord as a sun to the angels in their first state. Afterwards
there appeared a great obscure belt about the sun, and by this its first glow and brilliancy,
which gave it such splendor, began to be dulled, and I was told that such is the appearance
of the sun to them in their second state. Then the belt seemed by degrees to grow darker, and
the sun to appear less glowing, and this by degrees until at length it took on a shining whiteness;
and I was told that such is the appearance of the sun to them in their third state. After this,
that shining whiteness was seen to move to the left towards the moon of heaven, and to add
itself to her light; and in consequence the moon shone forth with unwonted splendor; and I
was told that such is the fourth state of those in the celestial kingdom and the first state
of those in the spiritual kingdom, and that in both kingdoms changes of state have such alternations;
yet not in the whole kingdom at once, but in one society after another. Furthermore, I was
told that these alternations are not fixed, but come upon them sooner or later without their
knowledge. And it was added that the sun in itself is not thus changed or moved; but it takes
on this appearance in accord with their successive progressions of state, since the Lord appears
to everyone in accord with what his state is, thus glowing when one is in intense love and
less glowing and finally shining white as his love subsides; and the quality of each one's
state was represented by the obscure belt that induced upon the sun these apparent variations
in its glow and light.

160. When angels are in the last of these states, which is when they are in what is their own,
they begin to be sad. I have talked with them when they were in that state and have seen their
sadness; but they said that they hoped to return soon to their former state, and thus into
heaven again, as it were; for to them it is heaven to be withheld from what is their own.

161. There are also changes of state in the hells, but these will be described later when hell
is treated of.

162. XVIII. TIME IN HEAVEN.

Although there is a succession and a progression of all things in heaven, as in the world,
yet angels have no notion or idea of time and space; and this so completely that they do not
even know at all what time and space are. Time in heaven will here be considered, and space
in its own chapter.

163. Angels do not know what time is, although with them there is a successive progression
of all things, as there is in the world, and this so completely that there is no difference
whatever; and the reason is that in heaven instead of years and days there are changes of state;
and where there are years and days there are times, but where there are changes of state there
are states.

164. In the world there are times because the sun of the world seemingly advances in succession
from one degree to another, producing times that are called seasons of the year; and besides,
it revolves about the earth, producing times that are called times of day; both of these by
fixed alternations. With the sun of heaven it is different. This does not mark years and days
by successive progressions and revolutions, but in its appearance it marks changes of state;
and this, as has been shown in the preceding chapter, is not done by fixed alternations. Consequently
no idea of time is possible to angels; but in its place they have an idea of state (see above
n. 154).

165. As angels have no idea derived from time, such as men in the world have, so neither do
they have any idea about time and what pertains to it. They do not even know what is meant
by the terms of time, such as year, month, week, day, hour, to-day, to-morrow, yesterday. When
angels hear these terms used by man (for angels are always associated with man by the Lord)
in place of them they perceive state and what pertains to states. Thus the natural thought
of man is turned into spiritual thought with angels. This is why times in the Word signify
states, and the terms of time, as enumerated above, signify corresponding spiritual things.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Times in the Word signify states (n. 2788, 2837,
  3254, 3356, 4814, 4901, 4916, 7218, 8070, 10133, 10605). Angels
  think apart from the idea of time and space (n. 3404); the
  reasons why (n. 1274, 1382, 3356, 4882, 4901, 6110, 7218,
  7381). What a "year" signifies in the Word (n. 487, 488, 493,
  893, 2906, 7828, 10209). What a "month" (n. 3814). What a
  "week" (n. 2044, 3845). What a "day" (n. 23, 487, 488, 6110,
  7680, 8426, 9213, 10132, 10605). What "today" (n. 2838, 3998,
  4304, 6165, 6984, 9939). What "to-morrow" (n. 3998, 10497).
  What "yesterday" (n. 6983, 7114, 7140).

166. The like is true of all things that exist from time, as the four seasons of the year,
called spring, summer, autumn, and winter; the four periods of the day, morning, noon, evening,
and night; and the four ages of man, infancy, youth, manhood, and old age; and all other things
that either exist from time or have a succession in accordance with time. In thinking of these
a man thinks from time, but an angel from state; and in consequence what there is in them from
time with man is with the angels turned into an idea of state. Spring and morning are turned
into an idea of the state of love and wisdom such as they are in angels in their first state;
summer and noon are turned into an idea of love and wisdom such as they are in the second state;
autumn and evening such as they are in the third state; night and winter into an idea of such
a state as exists in hell. This is why these periods have a like significance in the Word (see
above, n. 155). This makes clear how natural things in the thought of man become spiritual
with the angels who are with man.

167. As angels have no notion of time so they have an idea of eternity different from that
which men on the earth have. Eternity means to the angels infinite state, not infinite time.{1}
I was once thinking about eternity, and was able, with the idea of time, to perceive what to
eternity means, namely, without end, but not what from eternity means, thus not what God did
from eternity before creation. When anxiety on this account arose in my mind I was raised up
into the sphere of heaven, and thus into the perception that angels have in respect to eternity;
and it was then made clear to me that eternity must be thought of, not from time but from state;
and then the meaning of from eternity can be seen. This then happened to me.

  {Footnote 1} Men have an idea of eternity associated with time,
  but angels apart from time (n. 1382, 3404, 8325).

168. When angels speak with men they never express themselves in natural ideas proper to man,
all of which are from time, space, matter, and things analogous thereto, but in spiritual ideas,
all of which are from states and their various changes within the angels and outside of them.
Nevertheless, when these angelic ideas, which are spiritual, flow into men, they are turned
in a moment and of themselves into natural ideas proper to man, that correspond perfectly to
the spiritual ideas. Neither angels nor men know that this takes place; but such is all influx
of heaven into man. Certain angels were permitted to enter more nearly into my thoughts, even
into the natural thoughts in which there were many things from time and space; but as they
then understood nothing they suddenly withdrew; and after they had withdrawn I heard them talking,
and saying that they had been in darkness. [2] It has been granted me to know by experience
how ignorant the angels are about time. There was a certain one from heaven who was able to
enter into natural ideas, such as man has; and after he had done this I talked with him as
man with man. At first he did not know what it was that I called time, and I was therefore
obliged to tell him all about it, how the sun appears to be carried about our earth, and to
produce years and days, and how years are thereby divided into four seasons, and also into
months and weeks, and days into twenty-four hours; and how these times recur by fixed alternations,
and how this is the source of times. On hearing this he was surprised, saying that he knew
nothing about such things, but only what states are. [3] In speaking with him I added that
it is known in the world, for men speak as if they knew that there is no time in heaven, saying
of those who die that they "leave the things of time," and that they "pass out of time," meaning
by this out of the world. I said also that some know that times in their origin are states,
for they know that times are in exact accord with the states of their affections, short to
those who are in pleasant and joyous states, long to those who are in unpleasant and sorrowful
states, and various in a state of hope and expectation; and this therefore leads learned men
to inquire what time and space are, and some know that time belongs to the natural man.

169. The natural man might think that he would be deprived of all thought if the ideas of time,
space, and material things were taken away; for upon these all the thought of man rests.{1}
But let him know that so far as thoughts partake of time, space, and matter they are limited
and confined, but are unlimited and extended so far as they do not partake of these, since
the mind is in that measure raised above bodily and worldly things. This is the source of wisdom
to the angels; and such wisdom as is called incomprehensible, because it does not fall into
ideas that are wholly made up of what is material.

  {Footnote 1} Man does not think, as angels do, apart from the
  idea of time (n. 3404).

170. XIX. REPRESENTATIVES AND APPEARANCES IN HEAVEN.

The man who thinks from natural light alone is unable to comprehend that there is any thing
in heaven like what is in the world; and for the reason that from natural light he has previously
thought, and established himself in the idea, that angels are nothing but minds, and that minds
are like ethereal breaths, having no senses like those of men, thus no eyes, and if no eyes
no objects of sight; and yet the angels have every sense that a man has, and far more exquisite
senses; and the light by which angels see is far brighter than the light by which man sees.
That angels are men in the most complete form, and enjoy every sense, may be seen above (n.
73-77); and that the light in heaven is far brighter than the light in the world (n. 126-132).

171. The nature of the objects that are visible to angels in heaven cannot be described in
a few words. For the most part they are like things on earth, but in form far more perfect,
and in number more abundant. That such things exist in the heavens is evident from things seen
by the prophets,--as by Ezekiel in relation to the new temple and the new earth (as described
from chaps. 40 to 48); by Daniel (from chap. 7 to 12); by John (from the first chapter of the
Apocalypse to the last); and by others, as described both in the historic and the prophetic
part of the Word. These things were seen by them when heaven was open to them, and heaven is
said to be opened when the interior sight, which is the sight of man's spirit, is opened. For
what is in the heavens cannot be seen by the eyes of a man's body, but are seen by the eyes
of his spirit; and when it seems good to the Lord these are opened, and man is then withdrawn
from the natural light that he is in from the bodily senses and is raised up into spiritual
light, which he is in from his spirit. In that light the things in heaven have been seen by me.

172. But although the things seen in heaven are in large part like those on the earth, in essence
they are unlike them; for the things in heaven come forth from the sun of heaven, and those
on the earth from the sun of the world. The things that come forth from the sun of heaven are
called spiritual; those that come forth from the sun of the world are called natural.

173. The things that come forth in heaven do not come forth in the same manner as those on
the earth. All things in heaven come forth from the Lord in correspondence with the interiors
of the angels. For angels have both interiors and exteriors. All things in their interiors
have relation to love and faith, thus to the will and understanding, since the will and understanding
are their receptacles; while their exteriors correspond to their interiors. That exterior things
correspond to interior things may be seen above (n. 87-115). This is illustrated by what has
been said above about the heat and light of heaven, that angels have heat in accordance with
the quality of their love, and light in accordance with the quality of their wisdom (n. 128-134).
The like is true of all other things that present themselves to the senses of angels.

174. When I have been permitted to be in company with angels, the things there appeared precisely
the same as those in the world; and so plainly that I would not have known that I was not in
the world and in a king's palace. I also talked with the angels as man with man.

175. As all things that correspond to interiors also represent them they are called representatives;
and as they differ in each case in accordance with the state of the interiors they are called
appearances. Nevertheless, the things that appear before the eyes of angels in heaven and are
perceived by their senses appear to their eyes and senses as fully living as things on earth
appear to man, and even much more clearly, distinctly and perceptibly. Appearances from this
source in heaven are called real appearances, because they have real existence. There are appearances
also that are not real, which are things that become visible, but do not correspond to interiors.{1}
These will be treated of further on.

  {Footnote 1} All things that are visible to the angels are
  representative (n. 1971, 3213-3226, 3342, 3457, 3475, 3485,
  9481, 9457, 9576, 9577). The heavens are full of
  representatives (n. 1521, 1532, 1619). The representatives are
  more beautiful as they are more interior in the heavens (n.
  3475). As the representatives there are from the light of
  heaven they are real appearances (n. 3485). The Divine influx
  is turned into representatives in the higher heavens, and
  therefrom in the lower heavens also (n. 2179, 3213, 9457, 9481,
  9576, 9577). Those things are called representative that appear
  before the eyes of the angels in such form as are in nature,
  that is, such as are in the world (n. 9457). Internal things
  are thus turned into external (n. 1632, 2987-3002). What
  representatives in the heavens are; this made clear by various
  examples (n. 1521, 1532, 1619-1628, 1807, 1973, 1974, 1977,
  1980, 1981, 2299, 2601, 2761, 2762, 3217, 3219, 3220, 3348,
  3350, 5198, 9090, 10276). All things seen in the heavens are in
  accordance with correspondences and are called representatives
  (n. 3213-3226, 3342, 3475, 3485, 9481, 9457, 9576, 9577). All
  things that correspond also represent and likewise signify what
  they correspond to (n. 2896, 2987, 2989-2991, 3002, 3225).

176. To show what the things are that appear to the angels in accordance with correspondences,
I will here mention one only for the sake of illustration. By those who are intelligent, gardens
and parks full of trees and flowers of every kind are seen. The trees are planted in a most
beautiful order, combined to form arbors with arched approaches and encircling walks, all more
beautiful than words can describe. There the intelligent walk, and gather flowers and weave
garlands with which they adorn little children. Moreover, there are kinds of trees and flowers
there that are never seen and cannot exist on earth. The trees bear fruit that are in accordance
with the good of love, in which the intelligent are. These things are seen by them because
a garden or park and fruit trees and flowers correspond to intelligence and wisdom.{1} That
there are such things in heaven is known also on the earth, but only to those who are in good,
and who have not extinguished in themselves the light of heaven by means of natural light and
its fallacies; for when such think about heaven they think and say that there are such things
there as ear hath not heard and eye hath not seen.

  {Footnote 1} A "garden" or "park" signifies intelligence and
  wisdom (n. 100, 108, 3220). What is meant by "the garden of
  Eden" and "the garden of Jehovah" (n. 99, 100, 1588). How
  magnificent the things seen in parks are in the other life (n.
  1122, 1622, 2296, 4528, 4529). "Trees" signify perceptions and
  knowledges, from which wisdom and intelligence are derived (n.
  103, 2163, 2682, 2722, 2972, 7692). "Fruits" signify goods of
  love and goods of charity (n. 3146, 7690, 9337).

177. XX. THE GARMENTS WITH WHICH ANGELS APPEAR CLOTHED.

Since angels are men, and live among themselves as men do on the earth, they have garments
and dwellings and other such things, with the difference, however, that as they are in a more
perfect state all things with them are in greater perfection. For as angelic wisdom surpasses
human wisdom to such a degree as to be called ineffable, so is it with all things that are
perceived and seen by angels, inasmuch as all things perceived and seen by them correspond
to their wisdom (see above, n. 173).

178. The garments with which angels are clothed, like all other things with them, correspond;
and because they correspond they have real existence (see above n. 175). Their garments correspond
to their intelligence, and therefore all in the heavens appear clothed in accordance with their
intelligence; and as one is more intelligent than another so the garments of one surpass those
of another. The most intelligent have garments that blaze as if with flame, others have garments
that glisten as if with light; the less intelligent have garments that are glistening white
or white without the effulgence; and the still less intelligent have garments of various colors.
But the angels of the inmost heaven are not clothed.

179. As the garments of angels correspond to their intelligence they correspond also to truth,
since all intelligence is from Divine truth; and therefore it is the same thing whether you
say that angels are clothed in accordance with intelligence or in accordance with Divine truth.
The garments of some blaze as if with flame, and those of others glisten as if with light,
because flame corresponds to good, and light corresponds to truth from good.{1} Some have garments
that are glistening white and white without the effulgence, and others garments of various
colors, because with the less intelligent the Divine good and truth are less effulgent, and
are also received in various ways,{2} glistening white and white corresponding to truth,{3}
and colors to its varieties.{4} Those in the inmost heaven are not clothed, because they are
in innocence, and innocence corresponds to nakedness.{5}

  {Footnote 1} From correspondence "garments" in the Word signify
  truths (n. 1073, 2576, 5319, 5954, 9212, 9216, 9952, 10536).
  For the reason that truths clothe good (n. 5248). A "covering"
  signifies something intellectual, because the intellect is the
  recipient of truth (n. 6378). "Shining garments of fine linen"
  signify truths from the Divine (n. 5319, 9469). "Flame"
  signifies spiritual good, and the light therefrom truth from
  that good (n. 3222, 6832).

  {Footnote 2} Angels and spirits appear clothed with garments in
  accordance with their truths, thus in accordance with their
  intelligence (n. 165, 5248, 5954, 9212, 9216, 9814, 9952,
  10536). The garments of some angels are resplendent, others are
  not (n. 5248).

  {Footnote 3} In the Word "glistening white" and "white" signify
  truth because they are from light in heaven (n. 3301, 3993,
  4007).

  {Footnote 4} Colors in heaven are variegations of the light
  there (n. 1042, 1043, 1053, 1624, 3993, 4530, 4742, 4922).
  Colors signify various things pertaining to intelligence and
  wisdom (n. 4530, 4677, 4922, 9466). The precious stones in the
  Urim and Thummim signified, in accordance with their colors,
  all things of truth from good in the heavens (n. 9865, 9868,
  9905). So far as colors partake of red they signify good; so
  far as they partake of white they signify truth (n. 9466).

  {Footnote 5} All in the inmost heavens are innocences, and in
  consequence appear naked (n. 154, 165, 297, 2736, 3887, 8375,
  9960). Innocence is presented in heaven as nakedness (n. 165,
  8375, 9960). To the innocent and the chaste nakedness is no
  shame, because without offence (n. 165, 213, 8375).

180. As in heaven the angels are clothed with garments, so when seen in the world they have
appeared clothed with garments, as those seen by the prophets and those seen at the Lord's
sepulchre:

     Whose appearance was as lightning, and their garments
     glistening and white (Matt. 28:3; Mark 16:5; Luke 24:4;
     John 20:12, 13);

and those seen in heaven by John:

     Who had garments of fine linen and white (Apoc. 4:4;
     19:14).

And because intelligence is from Divine truth:

     The garments of the Lord, when He was transfigured, were
     radiant and glistening white like the light (Matt. 17:2;
     Mark 9:3; Luke 9:29).

And of Jerusalem, which means a church that is in truth,{1} it is written in Isaiah:

     Awake, put on thy strength, O Zion; put on the garments of
     thy beauty, O Jerusalem (52:1).

And in Ezekiel:

     Jerusalem, I girded thee about with fine linen, and
     covered thee with silk. Thy garments were of fine linen
     and silk (16:10, 13);

besides many other passages. But he who is not in truths is said "not to be clothed with a
wedding garment," as in Matthew:

     When the king came in he saw a man that had not on a
     wedding garment; and he said unto him, Friend, how camest
     thou in hither not having a wedding garment? Wherefore he
     was cast out into the outer darkness (22:11-13).

The house of the wedding feast means heaven and the church because of the conjunction of the
Lord with heaven and the church by means of His Divine truth; and for this reason the Lord
is called in the Word the Bridegroom and Husband; and heaven, with the church, is called the
bride and the wife.

  {Footnote 1} "Jerusalem" signifies a church in which there is
  genuine doctrine (n. 402, 3654, 9166).

181. That the garments of angels do not merely appear as garments, but are real garments, is
evident from the fact that angels both see them and feel them, that they have many garments,
and that they put them off and put them on, that they care for those that are not in use, and
put them on again when they need them. That they are clothed with a variety of garments I have
seen a thousand times. When I asked where they got their garments, they said from the Lord,
and that they receive them as gifts, and sometimes they are clothed with them unconsciously.
They said also that their garments are changed in accordance with their changes of state, that
in the first and second state their garments are shining and glistening white, and in the third
and fourth state a little less bright; and this likewise from correspondence, because their
changes of state have respect to intelligence and wisdom (of which see above, n. 154, 161).

182. As everyone in the spiritual world has garments in accordance with his intelligence, that
is, in accordance with truths which are the source of intelligence, so those in the hells,
because they have no truths, appear clothed in garments, but in ragged, squalid, and filthy
garments, each one in accordance with his insanity; and they can be clothed in no others. It
is granted them by the Lord to be clothed, lest they be seen naked.

183. XXI. THE PLACES OF ABODE AND DWELLINGS OF ANGELS.

As there are societies in heaven and the angels live as men, they have also places of abode,
and these differ in accordance with each one's state of life. They are magnificent for those
in higher dignity, and less magnificent for those in lower condition. I have frequently talked
with angels about the places of abode in heaven, saying that scarcely any one will believe
at the present day that they have places of abode and dwellings; some because they do not see
them, some because they do not know that angels are men, and some because they believe that
the angelic heaven is the heaven that they see with their eyes around them, and as this appears
empty and they suppose that angels are ethereal forms, they conclude that they live in ether.
Moreover, they do not comprehend how there can be such things in the spiritual world as there
are in the natural world, because they know nothing about the spiritual. [2] The angels replied
that they are aware that such ignorance prevails at this day in the world, and to their astonishment,
chiefly within the church, and more with the intelligent than with those whom they call simple.
They said also that it might be known from the Word that angels are men, since those that have
been seen have been seen as men; and the Lord, who took all His Human with Him, appeared in
like manner. It might be known also that as angels are men they have dwellings and places of
abode, and do not fly about in air, as some think in their ignorance, which the angels call
insanity, and that although they are called spirits they are not winds. This they said might
be apprehended if men would only think independently of their acquired notions about angels
and spirits, as they do when they are not bringing into question and submitting to direct thought
whether it is so. For everyone has a general idea that angels are in the human form, and have
homes which are called the mansions of heaven, which surpass in magnificence earthly dwellings;
but this general idea, which flows in from heaven, at once falls to nothing when it is brought
under direct scrutiny and inquiry whether it is so, as happens especially with the learned,
who by their own intelligence have closed up heaven to themselves and the entrance of heavenly
light. [3] The like is true of the belief in the life of man after death. When one speaks of
it, not thinking at the same time about the soul from the light of worldly learning or from
the doctrine of its reunion with the body, he believes that after death he is to live a man,
and among angels if he has lived well, and that he will then see magnificent things and perceive
joys; but as soon as he turns his thoughts to the doctrine of reunion with the body, or to
his theory about the soul, and the question arises whether the soul be such, and thus whether
this can be true, his former idea is dissipated.

184. But it is better to present the evidence of experience. Whenever I have talked with angels
face to face, I have been with them in their abodes. These abodes are precisely like abodes
on the earth which we call houses, but more beautiful. In them there are chambers, parlors,
and bedrooms in great number; there are also courts, and there are gardens and flower beds
and lawns round about. Where they live together their houses are near each other, arranged
one next to the other in the form of a city, with avenues, streets, and public squares, exactly
like cities on the earth. I have been permitted to pass through them, looking about on every
side, and sometimes entering the houses. This occurred when my inner sight was opened, and
I was fully awake.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Angels have cities, palaces and houses (n.
  940-942, 1116, 1626-1631, 4622).

185. I have seen palaces in heaven of such magnificence as cannot be described. Above they
glittered as if made of pure gold, and below as if made of precious stones, some more splendid
than others. It was the same within. Both words and knowledge are inadequate to describe the
decorations that adorned the rooms. On the side looking to the south there were parks, where,
too, everything shone, in some places the leaves glistening as if made of silver, and fruit
as if made of gold; while the flowers in their beds formed rainbows with their colors. Beyond
the borders, where the view terminated, were seen other palaces. Such is the architecture of
heaven that you would say that art there is in its art; and no wonder, because the art itself
is from heaven. The angels said that such things and innumerable others still more perfect
are presented before their eyes by the Lord; and yet these things are more pleasing to their
minds than to their eyes, because in everyone of them they see a correspondence, and through
the correspondences what is Divine.

186. As to these correspondences I have also been told that not only the palaces and houses,
but all things and each thing, both inside and outside of them, correspond to the interior
things which they have from the Lord, the house itself in general corresponding to their good,
the particular things inside of a house to the various things of which their good consists,{1}
and the things outside to truths derived from good, and also to their perceptions and knowledges
{2} and as these things correspond to the goods and truths they have from the Lord they correspond
to their love, and to their wisdom and intelligence from love, since love belongs to good,
wisdom to good and truth together, and intelligence to truth from good. These are what the
angels perceive when they behold what is around them, and thus their minds are more delighted
and moved by them than their eyes.

  {Footnote 1} "Houses," with their contents, signify the things
  in man that belong to his mind, thus his interiors (n. 710,
  2233, 2331, 2559, 3128, 3538, 4973, 5023, 6639, 6690, 7353,
  7848, 7910, 7929, 9150); consequently the things relating to
  good and truth (n. 2233, 2331, 2559, 4982, 7848, 7929). "Rooms"
  and "bed-chambers" signify interior things there (n. 3900,
  5694, 7353). The "roof of a house" signifies what is inmost (n.
  3652, 10184). A "house of wood" signifies what relates to good,
  and a "house of stone" what relates to truth (n. 3720).

187. This makes clear why the Lord called Himself the temple at Jerusalem (John 2:19, 21),{1}
namely, because the temple represented His Divine Human; also why the New Jerusalem was seen
to be of pure gold, its gates of pearls, and its foundations of precious stones (Apoc. 21),
namely, because the New Jerusalem signifies the church which was afterwards to be established,
the twelve gates its truths leading to good, and the foundations the truths on which the church
is founded.{2}

  {Footnote 1} In the highest sense "the house of God" signifies
  the Lord's Divine Human in respect to Divine good, and "the
  temple" the same in respect to Divine truth; and in a relative
  sense, heaven and the church in respect to good and truth (n.
  3720). "Gates" signify
  introduction to the doctrine of the church, and through
  doctrine introduction into the church (n. 2943, 4477, 4478).
  "Foundation" signifies the truth on which heaven, the church,
  and doctrine are founded (n. 9643).

188. The angels of whom the Lord's celestial kingdom consists dwell for the most part in elevated
places that appear as mountains of soil; the angels of whom the Lord's spiritual kingdom consists
dwell in less elevated places that appear like hills; while the angels in the lowest parts
of heaven dwell in places that appear like ledges of stone. These things spring from correspondence,
for interior things correspond to higher things, and exterior things to lower things;{1} and
this is why in the Word "mountains" signify celestial love, "hills" spiritual love, and "rocks"
faith.{2}

  {Footnote 1} In the Word what is interior is expressed by what
  is higher and what is higher signifies what is interior (n.
  2148, 3084, 4599, 5146, 8325). What is "high" signifies what is
  internal, and likewise heaven (n. 1735, 2148, 4210, 4599,
  8153).

  {Footnote 2} In heaven, mountains, hills, rocks, valleys, and
  lands are seen exactly the same as in the world (n. 10608). On
  the mountains angels who are in the good of love dwell, on the
  hills those who are in the good of charity, on the rocks those
  who are in the good of faith (n. 10438). Therefore in the Word
  "mountains" signify the good of love (n. 795, 4210, 6435, 8327,
  8758, 10438, 10608). "Hills" signify the good of charity (n.
  6435, 10438). "Rocks" signify the good and truth of faith (n.
  8581, 10580). "Stone," of which rock consists, in like manner
  signifies the truth of faith (n. 114, 643, 1298, 3720, 6426,
  8609, 10376). This is why "mountains" signify heaven (n. 8327,
  8805, 9420). And "the summit of a mountain" signifies the
  highest part of heaven (n. 9422, 9434, 10608). Also why the
  ancients had their holy worship on mountains (n. 796, 2722).

189. There are also angels who do not live associated together, but apart, house by house.
These dwell in the midst of heaven, since they are the best of angels.

190. The houses in which angels dwell are not erected, as houses in the world are, but are
given to them gratuitously by the Lord, to everyone in accordance with his reception of good
and truth. They also change a little in accordance with changes of the state of interiors of
the angels (of which above, n. 154-160). Everything whatsoever that the angels possess they
hold as received from the Lord; and everything they have need of is given them.

191. XXII. SPACE IN HEAVEN.

All things in heaven appear, just as in the world, to be in place and in space, and yet the
angels have no notion or idea of place and space. As this must needs sounds like a paradox,
I will endeavor to present the matter in a clear light, as it is of great importance.

192. All changes of place in the spiritual world are effected by changes of state of the interiors,
which means that change of place is nothing else than change of state.{1} In this way I have
been taken by the Lord into the heavens and also to the earths in the universe; and it was
my spirit that so journeyed, while my body remained in the same place.{2} Such are all movements
of the angels; and in consequence they have no distances, and having no distances they have
no spaces, but in place of spaces they have states and their changes.

  {Footnote 1} In the Word places and spaces signify states (n.
  2625, 2837, 3356, 3387, 7381, 10580); from experience (n. 1274,
  1277, 1376-1381, 4321, 4882, 10146, 10580). Distance signifies
  difference of state of life (n. 9104, 9967). In the spiritual
  world movements and changes of place are changes of the state
  of life, because they originate in these (n. 1273-1275, 1377,
  3356, 9440). The same is true of journeyings (n. 9440, 10734);
  illustrated by experience (n. 1273-1277, 5605). For this reason
  "to journey" signifies in the Word to live and progress in
  life; and "to sojourn has a like meaning (n. 3335, 4554, 4585,
  4882, 5493, 5605, 5996, 8345, 8397, 8417, 8420, 8557). To go
  with the Lord means to live with Him (n. 10567).

  {Footnote 2} Man may be led a long distance in respect to his
  spirit by means of changes of state, while his body remains in
  its place, also from experience (n. 9440, 9967, 10734). What it
  is to be "led by the spirit to another place" (n. 1884).

193. As changes of place are thus effected it is evident that approaches are likenesses of
state of the interiors, and separations are unlikenesses; and for this reason those are near
each other who are in like states, and those are at a distance who are in unlike states; and
spaces in heaven are simply the external conditions corresponding to the internal states. For
the same reason the heavens are distinct from each other, also the societies of each heaven
and the individuals in each society; and this is why also that the hells are entirely separated
from the heavens, because they are in a contrary state.

194. For the same reason, again, any one in the spiritual world who intensely desires the presence
of another comes into his presence, for he thereby sees him in thought, and puts himself in
his state; and conversely, one is separated from another so far as he is averse to him. And
since all aversion comes from contrariety of affection and from disagreement of thought, whenever
in that world several are together in one place they are visible [to one another] so long as
they agree, but vanish as soon as they disagree.

195. Again, when any one goes from one place to another, whether it be in his own city, or
in courts or in gardens, or to others out of his own society, he arrives more quickly when
he eagerly desires it, and less quickly when he does not, the way itself being lengthened and
shortened in accordance with the desire, although it remains the same. This I have often seen
to my surprise. All this again makes clear how distances, and consequently spaces, are wholly
in accord with states of the interiors of the angels;{1} and this being so, no notion or idea
of space can enter their thought, although there are spaces with them equally as in the world.

  {Footnote 1} Places and spaces are presented to the sight in
  accordance with the states of the interiors of angels and
  spirits (n. 5605, 9440, 10146).

196. This can be illustrated by the thoughts of man, in that space does not pertain to thought,
for whatever is thought of intently is set before one as present. Again, whoever reflects about
it knows that his sight recognizes space only by intermediate objects on the earth that are
seen at the same time, or by recalling what he already knows about the distance. This happens
because of the continuity; and in what is continuous there is no appearance of distance except
from things not continuous. This is even more true of the angels, because their sight acts
as one with their thought, and their thought acts as one with their affection, and things appear
near or remote, and also varied, in accordance with the states of their interiors, as has been
said above.

197. It follows from this that in the Word places and spaces, and all things that in any way
relate to space, signify such things as relate to states, such as distances, near, far off,
ways, journeys, sojourning, miles and furlongs, plains, fields, gardens, cities and streets,
motions, measures of various kinds, long, broad, high, and deep, and innumerable other things;
for most things in man's thought from the world take on something from space and time. [2]
I will mention here only what is signified in the Word by length, breadth, and height. In this
world, that is called long or broad which is long or broad in relation to space, and the same
is true of height. But in heaven, where there is no thought from space, length means a state
of good, breadth a state of truth, and height the distinction between them in accordance with
degrees (see n. 38). Such is the meaning of these three dimensions, because length in heaven
is from east to west, and those that dwell there are in good of love; while breadth in heaven
is from south to north, and those that dwell there are in truth from good (see n. 148); while
height in heaven applies to both of these in respect to degrees. This is why length, breadth,
and height have these significations in the Word, as in Ezekiel (from chap. 40 to 48), where
the new temple and the new earth, with the courts, chambers, gates, doors, windows, and surroundings
are described by measures giving the length, breadth, and height, by which a new church, and
the goods and truths that are in it are signified. Otherwise to what purpose would be all those
measures?

Because "the New Jerusalem" here signifies a new church these measures signify the things of
the church, "length" its good of love, "breadth" truth from that good, "height" good and truth
in respect to degrees, "twelve thousand furlongs" all good and truth in the complex. Otherwise,
how could there be said to be a height of twelve thousand furlongs, the same as the length
and the breadth? That "breadth" in the Word signifies truth is evident from David:-

     Jehovah, Thou hast not shut me up into the hand of the
     enemy, Thou hast made my feet to stand in a broad place
     (Psalm 31:8).

     Out of straitness I called upon Jah; He answereth me in a
     broad place (Psalm 118:5). Besides other passages (as in
     Isaiah 8:8; and in Habakkuk 1:6). So in all other cases.

198. From all this it can be seen that although there are spaces in heaven as in the world,
still nothing there is reckoned in accordance with spaces but in accordance with states; and
in consequence spaces there cannot be measured as in the world, but can be seen only from the
state and in accordance with the state of the interiors there.{1}

  {Footnote 1} In the Word length signifies good (n. 1613, 9487).
  "Breadth" signifies truth (n. 1613, 3433, 3434, 4482, 9487,
  10179). Height signifies good and truth in respect to their
  degrees (n. 9489, 9773, 10181).

199. The primary and veriest cause of this is that the Lord is present with everyone in the
measure of his love and faith,{1} and that it is in accordance with the Lord's presence that
all things appear near or far away, for it is from this that all things in the heavens are
determined. Also it is through this that angels have wisdom, for it is through this that they
have extension of thought and through this a sharing of all things in the heavens; in a word,
it is through this that they think spiritually, and not naturally like men.

  {Footnote 1} The conjunction and presence of the Lord with the
  angels is according to their reception of love and charity from
  Him (n. 290, 681, 1954, 2658, 2886, 2888, 2889, 3001,
  3741-3743, 4318 4319, 4524, 7211, 9128).

200. XXIII. THE FORM OF HEAVEN WHICH DETERMINES AFFILIATIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS THERE.

What the form of heaven is can be seen in some measure from what has been shown in the preceding
chapters; as that heaven is like itself both in its greatest and in its least divisions (n.
72); that consequently each society is a heaven in a lesser form, and each angel in the least
form (n. 51-58); that as the entire heaven reflects a single man, so each society of heaven
reflects a man in a lesser form, and each angel in the least form (n. 59-77); that the wisest
are at the center, and the less wise are round about even to the borders, and the like is true
of each society (n. 43); and that those who are in the good of love dwell from the east to
the west in heaven, and those who are in truths from good from the south to the north; and
the same is true of each society (n. 148, 149). All this is in accord with the form of heaven;
consequently it may be concluded from this what this form is in general.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The entire heaven in respect to all angelic
  societies, is arranged by the Lord in accordance with His
  Divine order, since it is the Divine of the Lord with the
  angels that makes heaven (n. 3038, 7211, 9128, 9338, 10125,
  10151, 10157). Concerning the heavenly form (n. 4040-4043,
  6607, 9877).

201. It is important to know what the form of heaven is, because not only is all affiliation
there in accordance with it, but also all mutual communication, and in consequence of this
all extension of thoughts and affections, and thus all the intelligence and wisdom of angels.
From this it follows that each one there is wise just to the extent that he is in the form
of heaven, and is thus a form of heaven. It makes no difference whether you say in the form
of heaven, or in the order of heaven, since the form of any thing is from its order and in
accordance with its order.{1}

  {Footnote 1} The form of heaven is a form in accordance with
  the Divine order (n. 4040-4043, 6607, 9877).

202. Let us consider first what is meant by being in the form of heaven. Man was created both
in the image of heaven and in the image of the world; his internal in the image of heaven,
and his external in the image of the world (see above, n. 57); and in the image means the same
thing as in accordance with the form. But as man by the evils of his will and consequent falsities
of thought has destroyed in himself the image of heaven, that is, the form of heaven, and in
place of it has brought in the image and form of hell, his internal is closed up from his very
birth; and this is why man is born into pure ignorance, while animals of every kind are not.
And that man may have the image of heaven or form of heaven restored to him he must be taught
the things that pertain to order; since form, as has been said, is in accord with order. The
Word contains all the laws of Divine order, for its precepts are the laws of Divine order;
therefore to the extent that man knows these and lives in accordance with them his internal
is opened and the order or image of heaven is there formed anew. This makes clear what is meant
by being in the form of heaven, namely, that it is to live in accordance with those things
that are in the Word.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Divine truths are the laws of order (n. 2447,
  7995). Man is a man to the extent that he lives in accordance
  with order, that is, to the extent that he is in good in
  accordance with Divine truths (n. 4839, 6605, 6626). When the Lord forms man anew, that is, regenerates him,
  He arranges all things in him in accordance with order, which
  means, into the form of heaven (n. 5700, 6690, 9931, 10303).

203. So far as any one is in the form of heaven he is in heaven, and is, in fact, a heaven
in the least form (n. 57); consequently he is to the same extent in intelligence and wisdom;
for as has been said above, all the thought of his understanding and all the affection of his
will extend themselves on every side into heaven in accord with its form, and wonderfully communicate
with the societies there, and these in turn with him.{1} [2] There are some who do not believe
that thoughts and affections really extend themselves around about them, but believe that they
are within them, because whatever they think they see within in themselves, and not as distant;
but such are greatly mistaken. For as the sight of the eye has extension to remote objects,
and is affected in accordance with the order of the things seen in that extension, so the interior
sight, which is that of the understanding, has a like extension in the spiritual world, although
not perceived by man, for the reason given above (n. 196). The only difference is that the
sight of the eye is affected in a natural way, because it is affected by the things in the
natural world, while the sight of the understanding is affected in a spiritual way, because
by the things in the spiritual world, all of which have relation to good and truth; and man's
ignorance of this is because of his not knowing that there is any light that enlightens the
understanding; and yet without the light that enlightens the understanding man could not think
at all (of which light see above, n. 126-132). [3] There was a certain spirit who believed
that his thought was from himself, thus without any extension outside of himself and communication
thereby with societies outside of him. That he might learn that this was not true his communication
with neighboring societies was cut off, and in consequence, not only was he deprived of thought
but he fell down as if lifeless, although tossing his arms about like a new-born infant. After
a while the communication was restored to him, and then as it was gradually restored he returned
into the state of his thought. [4] When other spirits had seen this they confessed that all
thought and affection, and in consequence, everything of life, flow in in accordance with communication,
since everything of man's life consists in his ability to think and be moved by affection,
or what is the same, in his ability to understand and will.{2}

  {Footnote 1} Everyone in heaven has communication of life,
  which may be called its extension into angelic societies round
  about, according to the quantity and quality of his good (n.
  8794, 8797). Thoughts and affections have such extension (n.
  2470, 6598-6613). They are united and separated in accordance
  with the ruling affections (n. 4111).

  {Footnote 2} There is only one Life, from which all, both in
  heaven and in the world, live (n. 1954, 2021, 2536, 2658,
  2886-2889, 3001, 3484, 3742, 5847, 6467). That life is from the
  Lord above (n. 2886-2889, 3344, 3484, 4319, 4320, 4524, 4882,
  5986, 6325, 6468-6470, 9276, 10196). It flows into angels,
  spirits, and men, in a wonderful manner (n. 2886-2889, 3337,
  3338, 3484, 3742). The Lord flows in from His Divine love,
  which is such that what is its own it wills should be another's
  (n. 3472, 4320). For this reason life appears to be in man, and
  not flowing in (n. 3742, 4320). Of the joy of angels, perceived
  and confirmed by what they told me, because of their not living
  from themselves but from the Lord (n. 6469). The evil are
  unwilling to be convinced that life flows in (n. 3743). Life
  from the Lord flows in also with the evil (n. 2706, 3743, 4417,
  10196). But they turn good into evil, and truth into falsity;
  for such as man is such is his reception of life illustrated
  (n. 4319, 4320, 4417).

204. But let it be understood that intelligence and wisdom vary with everyone in accordance
with this communication, those whose intelligence and wisdom are formed out of genuine truths
and goods having communication with societies in accordance with the form of heaven; while
those whose intelligence and wisdom are not formed out of genuine truths and goods, and yet
out of what is in accord therewith, have a broken and variously coherent communication, since
it is not with societies that are in a series in which there is a form of heaven. On the other
hand, those that are not in intelligence and wisdom, because they are in falsities from evil,
have communication with societies in hell; and their extension is determined by the degree
of their confirmation. Let it also be known that this communication with societies is not such
a communication with them as is clearly perceptible to those there, but is a communication
with what they really are, which is in them and flows from them.{1}

  {Footnote 1} Thought pours itself into societies of spirits and
  of angels round about (n. 6600-6605). Still it does not move or
  disturb the thoughts of the societies (n. 6601, 6603).

205. There is an affiliation of all in heaven in accordance with spiritual relationships, that
is, relationships of good and truth in their order. It is so in the whole heaven; so in each
society, and so in each house. Because of this angels who are in like good and truth recognize
each other, as relatives by blood and marriage do on the earth, precisely as if they had been
acquainted from infancy. The good and truth in each angel, which constitute his wisdom and
intelligence, are affiliated in like manner; they recognize each other in like manner, and
as they recognize each other they join themselves together;{1} and in consequence those in
whom truths and goods are thus joined in accordance with a form of heaven see things following
one another in series, and how they cohere widely round about; but those in whom goods and
truths are not conjoined in accordance with the form of heaven do not see this.

  {Footnote 1} Good recognizes its truth, and truth its good (n.
  2429, 3101, 3102, 3161, 3179, 3180, 4358, 5704, 5835, 9637). In
  this way good and truth are conjoined (n. 3834, 4096, 4097,
  4301, 4345, 4353, 4364, 4368, 5365, 7623-7627, 7752-7762, 8530,
  9258, 10555). This is effected by influx from heaven (n. 9079).

206. In each heaven there is such a form, and in accordance with it the angels have communication
and extension of thoughts and affections, and thus in accordance with it they have intelligence
and wisdom. But the communication of one heaven with another is different, that is, of the
third or inmost with the second or middle, and of this with the first or outmost. But the communication
between the heavens should not be called communication but influx. About this something shall
now be said. That there are three heavens distinct from each other can be seen above in its
own chapter (n. 29-40).

207. That between one heaven and another there is influx but not communication can be seen
from their relative position. The third or inmost heaven is above, the second or middle heaven
is below, and the first or outmost heaven is still lower. There is a like arrangement in all
the societies in each heaven, for example, some dwell on elevated places that appear like mountains
(n. 188); on the top of which those of the inmost heaven dwell; below these are the societies
of the second heaven, below these again the societies of the outmost heaven. The same is true
every where, both in elevated places and in those not elevated. A society of a higher heaven
has no communication with a society of a lower except by correspondences (see above, n. 100);
and communication by correspondences is what is called influx.

208. One heaven is joined with another, or a society of one heaven with the society of another,
by the Lord alone, both by direct and by mediate influx, directly from Himself, and mediately
through the higher heavens in order into the lower.{1} As the conjunction of the heavens by
this inflowing is from the Lord alone there is a most careful precaution against any angel
of a higher heaven looking down into a society of a lower heaven and talking with any one there;
for the angel is thus immediately deprived of his intelligence and wisdom. The reason of this
also shall be told. As there are three degrees of heaven, so each angel has three degrees of
life, those in the inmost heaven having the third or inmost degree open, while the second and
first degrees are closed; those in the middle heaven have the second degree opened and the
first and third closed; and those in the lowest heaven have the first degree opened and the
second and third closed. Consequently, as soon as an angel of the third heaven looks down into
a society of the second heaven and talks with any one there his third degree is at once closed;
and as his wisdom resides in that degree, if that is closed he is deprived of his wisdom, for
he has none in the second or first degree. This is what is meant by the words of the Lord in
Matthew:

     He that is on the housetop, let him not go down to take
     what is in his house; and he that is in the field, let him
     not turn back to take his garment (24:17, 18).

And in Luke:

     In that day he that shall be on the housetop and his goods
     in the house, let him not go down to take them away; and
     he that is in the field let him not turn back. Remember
     Lot's wife (17:31, 32).

  {Footnote 1} There is direct influx from the Lord and mediate
  influx through heaven (n. 6063, 6307, 6472, 9682, 9683). There
  is a direct influx of the Lord into the minutest parts of all
  things (n. 6058, 6474-6478, 8717, 8728). Of the mediate influx
  of the Lord through the heavens (n. 4067, 6982, 6985, 6996).

209. No influx is possible from the lower heavens into the higher, because this is contrary
to order; but there is influx from the higher heavens into the lower. Moreover, the wisdom
of the angels of a higher heaven surpasses the wisdom of the angels of a lower heaven as a
myriad to one; and this is another reason why the angels of a lower heaven cannot converse
with those of a higher heaven; and in fact when they look towards them they do not see them,
the higher heaven appearing like a cloudy something over their heads. But the angels of a higher
heaven can see those in a lower heaven, although if permitted to talk with them they would
lose their wisdom, as has been said above.

210. The thoughts and affections as well as the speech of the angels of the inmost heaven are
never perceived in the middle heaven, because they so transcend what is there. But when it
pleases the Lord there is seen in the lower heavens from that source something like a flame,
and from the thoughts and affections in the middle heaven there is seen in the outmost heaven
something luminous, and sometimes a cloud glowing white and variegated. From that cloud, its
ascent, descent, and form, what is being said there is in some measure known.

211. From all this it can be seen what the form of heaven is, namely, that it is the most perfect
of all in the inmost heaven; in the middle heaven it is also perfect, but in a lower degree,
and in the outmost heaven in a degree still lower; also that the form of one heaven has its
permanent existence from another by means of influx from the Lord. But what communication by
influx is cannot be understood unless it is known what degrees of height are, and how they
differ from degrees of length and breadth. What these different degrees are may be seen above
(n 38).

212. When it comes to the particulars of the form of heaven and how it proceeds and flows,
this not even the angels can comprehend. Some conception of it can be gained from the form
of all things in the human body, when this is scanned and investigated by an acute and wise
man; for it has been shown above, in their respective chapters, that the entire heaven reflects
a single man (see n. 59-72) and that all things in man correspond to the heavens (n. 87-102).
How incomprehensible and inexplicable that form is is evident only in a general way from the
nervous fibers, by which each part and all parts of the body are woven together. What these
fibers are, and how they proceed and flow in the brain, the eye cannot at all perceive; for
innumerable fibers are there so interwoven that taken together they appear like a soft continuous
mass; and yet it is in accord with these that each thing and all things of the will and understanding
flow with the utmost distinctness into acts. How again they interweave themselves in the body
is clear from the various plexuses, such as those of the heart, the mesentery, and others;
and also from the knots called ganglions, into which many fibers enter from every region and
there intermingle, and when variously joined together go forth to their functions, and this
again and again; besides like things in every viscus, member, organ, and muscle. Whoever examines
these fibers and their many wonders with the eye of wisdom will be utterly bewildered. And
yet the things seen with the eye are few, and those not seen are still more wonderful because
they belong to an inner realm of nature. It is clearly evident that this form corresponds to
the form of heaven, because all the workings of the understanding and the will are within it
and are in accordance with it; for it is in accordance with this form that whatever a man wills
passes spontaneously into act, and whatever he thinks spreads through the fibers from their
beginnings even to their terminations, which is the source of sensations; and inasmuch as it
is the form of thought and will, it is the form of intelligence and wisdom. Such is the form
that corresponds to the form of heaven. And from this it can be known that such is the form
in accordance with which every affection and thought of angels extends itself, and that so
far as the angels are in that form they are in intelligence and wisdom. That this form of heaven
is from the Divine Human of the Lord can be seen above (n. 78-86). All this has been said to
make clear also that the heavenly form is such that even as to its generals it can never be
completely known, thus that it is incomprehensible even to the angels, as has been said above.

213. XXIV. GOVERNMENTS IN HEAVEN.

As heaven is divided into societies, and the larger societies consist of some hundreds of thousands
of angels (n. 50), and all within a society, although in like good, are not in like wisdom
(n. 43), it must needs follow that governments exist there, since order must be observed, and
all things of order must be guarded. But the governments in the heavens differ; they are of
one sort in societies that constitute the Lord's celestial kingdom, and of another sort in
the societies that constitute His spiritual kingdom; they differ also in accordance with the
functions of the several societies. Nevertheless, no other government than the government of
mutual love is possible in the heavens, and the government of mutual love is heavenly government.

214. Government in the Lord's celestial kingdom is called righteousness because all in that
kingdom are in the good of love to the Lord from the Lord, and whatever is from that good is
called righteous. Government there belongs to the Lord alone. He leads them and teaches them
in the affairs of life. The truths that are called truths of judgment are written on their
hearts; everyone knows them, perceives them, and sees them;{1} and in consequence matters of
judgment there never come into question, but only matters of righteousness, which belong to
the life. About these matters the less wise consult the more wise, and these consult the Lord
and receive answers. Their heaven, that is, their inmost joy, is to live rightly from the Lord.

  {Footnote 1} The celestial angels do not think and speak from
  truths, as the spiritual angels do, because they have from the
  Lord a perception of all things of truth (n. 202, 597, 607,
  784, 1121, 1384, 1398, 1442, 1919, 7680, 7877, 8780, 9277,
  10336).

215. In the Lord's spiritual kingdom the government is called judgment; because those in that
kingdom are in spiritual good, which is the good of charity towards the neighbor, and that
good in its essence is truth;{1} and truth pertains to judgment, as good pertains to righteousness.{2}
These, too, are led by the Lord, but mediately (n. 208); and in consequence they have governors,
few or many according to the need of the society in which they are. They also have laws according
to which they live together. The governors administer all things in accordance with the laws,
which they understand because they are wise, and in doubtful matters they are enlightened by
the Lord.

  {Footnote 1} Those in the spiritual kingdom are in truths, and
  those in the celestial kingdom are in good (n. 863, 875, 927,
  1023, 1043, 1044, 1555, 2256, 4328, 4493, 5113, 9596). The good
  of the spiritual kingdom is the good of charity towards the
  neighbor and this good in its essence is truth (n. 8042,
  10296).

  {Footnote 2} In the Word "righteousness" is predicated of good,
  and "Judgment" of truth therefore "to do righteousness and
  judgment" means good and truth (n. 2235, 9857). "Great
  judgments" means the law of Divine order, thus Divine truths
  (n. 7206).

216.
     23:5).

     Jehovah is exalted, for He dwelleth on high; He hath
     filled Zion with judgment and righteousness (Isaiah 33:5).
     "Zion" also means heaven and the church.{2}

     I, Jehovah, doing judgment and righteousness on the earth,
     for in these things I delight (Jer. 9:24).

     I will betroth thee unto Me forever, and I will betroth
     thee unto Me in righteousness and judgment (Hosea 2:19).

     They ask of Me the judgments of righteousness, they long
     for an approach unto God (Isaiah 58:2). So in other
     places.

  {Footnote 1} By "David" in the prophetic parts of the Word, the
  Lord is meant (n. 1888, 9954).

  {Footnote 2} In the Word "Zion" means the church, and
  specifically the celestial church (n. 2362, 9055).

217. In the Lord's spiritual kingdom there are various forms of government, differing in different
societies, the variety being in accord with the functions performed by the societies; and the
functions of these are in accord with the functions of all things in man to which they correspond.
That these are various is well known, the heart having one function, the lungs another, the
liver another, the pancreas and spleen another, and each sensory organ another. As in the body
these organs perform various services, so there are various services pertaining to the societies
in the Greatest Man, which is heaven for the societies there correspond to these organs. That
there is a correspondence of all things of heaven with all things of man may be seen in its
own chapter above (n. 87-102). But all these forms of government agree in this, that they look
to the public good as their end, and in that good to the good of the individual.{1} And this
is so because everyone in the whole heaven is under the auspices of the Lord, who loves all,
and from Divine love ordains that there shall be a common good, from which each individual
shall receive his own good. Each one, moreover, receives good according as he loves the common
good; for so far as he loves the common good he loves all and everyone; and as that love is
love of the Lord he is to that extent loved by the Lord, and good comes to him.

  {Footnote 1} Every man and every community, also one's country
  and the church and in the universal sense the kingdom of the
  Lord, is a neighbor, and to do good to these from love of good
  in accordance with their state is to love the neighbor; that
  is, the neighbor is the good of these, which is the common good
  that must be consulted (n. 6818-6824, 8123). Civil good also,
  which is justice, is a neighbor (n. 2915, 4730, 8120-8123).
  Therefore charity towards the neighbor extends itself to all
  things and each thing of the life of man; and loving good and
  doing good from love of good and truth, and also doing what is
  just from a love of what is just in every function and in every
  work, is loving the neighbor (n. 2417, 8121-8124).

218. From all this it can be seen what the governors there are, namely, that they are such
as are preeminent in love and wisdom, and therefore desire the good of all, and from wisdom
know how to provide for the realization of that good. Such governors do not domineer or dictate,
but they minister and serve (to serve meaning to do good to others from a love of the good,
and to minister meaning to see to it that the good is done); nor do they make themselves greater
than others, but less, for they put the good of society and of the neighbor in the first place,
and put their own good last; and whatever is in the first place is greater and what is last
is less. Nevertheless, the rulers have honor and glory; they dwell in the midst of the society,
in higher position than the rest, and also in magnificent palaces; and this glory and honor
they accept not for the sake of themselves but for the sake of obedience; for all there know
that they have this honor and glory from the Lord, and on that account should be obeyed. 20:27,
28).

     He that is greatest among you let him be as the least, and
     he that is chief as he that doth minister (Luke 22:26).

219. Also in each house there is a like government in a lesser form. In every house there is
a master and there are servants; the master loves the servants and the servants love the master,
consequently they serve each other from love. The master teaches how they ought to live, and
tells what is to be done; the servants obey and perform their duties. To perform use is the
delight of everyone's life. This shows that the Lord's kingdom is a kingdom of uses.

220. Also in the hells there are governments, for without governments they could not be kept
in restraint; but the governments there are opposite to the governments in the heavens; they
are governments of the love of self. Everyone there wishes to dictate to others and to be over
others. They hate those that do not favor them, and make them objects of their vengeance and
fury, for such is the nature of the love of self. Therefore the more malignant are set over
them as governors, and these they obey from fear.{1} But of this below, where the hells are
treated of.

  {Footnote 1} There are two kinds of rule, one from love towards
  the neighbor the other from love of self (n. 10814). From the
  rule that is from love towards the neighbor flow all goods and
  all happinesses (n. 10160, 10814). In heaven no one desires to
  rule from the love of self, but all desire to minister, which
  means to rule from love to the neighbor; this is the source of
  their great power (n. 5732). From rule from the love of self
  all evils flow in (n. 10038). When the loves of self and the
  world had begun to prevail men were compelled to subject
  themselves to governments as a means of security (n. 7364,
  10160, 10814).

221. XXV. DIVINE WORSHIP IN HEAVEN.

Divine worship in the heavens is not unlike in externals Divine worship on the earth, but in
internals it is different. In the heavens, as on the earth, there are doctrines, preachings,
and church edifices. In essentials the doctrines there are everywhere the same; but in the
higher heavens they contain more interior wisdom than in the lower. The preachings are in harmony
with the doctrines; and as they have houses and palaces (n. 183-190), so they have also church
edifices, in which there is preaching. Such things exist in heaven, because the angels are
being perfected continually in wisdom and love. For they possess, as men do, understanding
and will; and both their understanding and their will are capable of being continually perfected,
the understanding by means of truths of intelligence, and the will by means of the goods of
love.{1}

