It is quite otherwise with us, who engage as volunteers in the service of a flourishing ministry,
in full credit with the Q[uee]n, and beloved by the people, because they have no sinister ends
or dangerous designs, but pursue with steadiness and resolution the true interests of both.
Upon which account they little want or desire our assistance; and we may write till the world
is weary of reading, without having our pretences allowed either to a place or a pension: besides,
we are refused the common benefit of the party, to have our works cried up of course; the readers
of our own side being as ungentle and hard to please, as if we writ against them; and our papers
never make their way in the world, but barely in proportion to their merit. The design of their
labours who write on the conquered side, is likewise of greater importance than ours; they
are like cordials for dying men, which must be repeated; whereas ours are, in the Scripture
phrase, but "meat for babes": at least, all I can pretend, is to undeceive the ignorant and
those at distance; but their task is to keep up the sinking spirits of a whole party.

After such reflections, I cannot be angry with those gentlemen for perpetually writing against
me: it furnishes them largely with topics, and is besides, their proper business: neither is
it affectation, or altogether scorn, that I do not reply. But as things are, we both act suitable
to our several provinces: mine is, by laying open some corruptions in the late management,
to set those who are ignorant, right in their opinions of persons and things: it is theirs
to cover with fig-leaves all the faults of their friends, as well as they can: When I have
produced my facts, and offered my arguments, I have nothing farther to advance; it is their
office to deny and disprove; and then let the world decide. If I were as they, my chief endeavour
should certainly be to batter down the "Examiner," therefore I cannot but approve their design,
Besides, they have indeed another reason for barking incessantly at this paper: they have in
their prints openly taxed a most ingenious person as author of it;[4] one who is in great and
very deserved reputation with the world, both on account of his poetical works, and his talents
for public business. They were wise enough to consider, what a sanction it would give their
performances, to fall under the animadversion of such a pen; and have therefore used all the
forms of provocation commonly practised by little obscure pedants, who are fond of distinguishing
themselves by the fame of an adversary. , say: ",. You.'."-least; news.

One. "', animal?". ", babu,"; "; him."'?

",., append,". Part;'.,. ""! but, ";". "", i, your babu; badly; probably,.
",."; stifle. ".", miss, joylessly. ". Ne'er.", man; Leonard; and,
it use, you. ",".'., it convince.

""? Ryder. Wasn': saying; nowadays; firm. ","; "." "?"? ",."? ",." ", concern!?."? ""'. "';'."
"?!", weakness, "?" "!". You. ",.,',.", homo,-? "; feeling." ", male,".
Homo; blunder; that:',.,'., probably, "'i'.", off; thus; and, night;
engineering.

"",. "
 And will not his enemies allow
him to be fully equal to the great station he now adorns? But then it must be granted, that
he is wholly ignorant in the speculative as well as practical part of polygamy: he knows not
how to metamorphose a sober man into a lunatic:[13] he is no freethinker in religion, nor has
courage to be patron of an atheistical book,[14] while he is guardian of the Qu[een]'s conscience.
Though after all, to speak my private opinion, I cannot think these such mighty objections
to his character, as some would pretend.

The person who now presides at the council,[15] is descended from a great and honourable father,
not from the dregs of the people; he was at the head of the treasury for some years, and rather
chose to enrich his prince than himself. In the height of favour and credit, he sacrificed
the greatest employment in the kingdom to his conscience and honour: he has been always firm
in his loyalty and religion, zealous for supporting the prerogative of the crown, and preserving
the liberties of the people. But then, his best friends must own that he is neither Deist nor
Socinian: he has never conversed with T[o]l[a]nd, to open and enlarge his thoughts, and dispel
the prejudices of education; nor was he ever able to arrive at that perfection of gallantry,
to ruin and imprison the husband, in order to keep the wife without disturbance.[16]

The present l[or]d st[ewa]rd[17] has been always distinguished for his wit and knowledge; is
of consummate wisdom and experience in affairs; has continued constant to the true interest
of the nation, which he espoused from the beginning, and is every way qualified to support
the dignity of his office: but in point of oratory must give place to his predecessor.[18]

The D. of Sh[rewsbur]y[19] was highly instrumental in bringing about the Revolution, in which
service he freely exposed his life and fortune. He has ever been the favourite of the nation,
being possessed of all the amiable qualities that can accomplish a great man; but in the agreeableness
and fragrancy of his person, and the profoundness of his politics, must be allowed to fall
very short of ----.[20]

Mr. H[arley] had the honour of being chosen Speaker successively to three Parliaments;[21]
he was the first of late years, that ventured to restore the forgotten custom of treating his
PRINCE with duty and respect. Easy and disengaged in private conversation, with such a weight
of affairs upon his shoulders;[22] of great learning, and as great a favourer and protector
of it; intrepid by nature, as well as by the consciousness of his own integrity, and a despiser
of money; pursuing the true interest of his PRINCE and country against all obstacles. Sagacious
to view into the remotest consequences of things, by which all difficulties fly before him.
A firm friend, and a placable enemy, sacrificing his justest resentments, not only to public
good, but to common intercession and acknowledgment. Yet with all these virtues it must be
granted, there is some mixture of human infirmity: His greatest admirers must confess his skill
at cards and dice to be very low and superficial: in horse-racing he is utterly ignorant:[23]
then, to save a few millions to the public, he never regards how many worthy citizens he hinders
from making up their plum. And surely there is one thing never to be forgiven him, that he
delights to have his table filled with black coats, whom he uses as if they were gentlemen.

My Lord D[artmouth][24] is a man of letters, full of good sense, good nature and honour, of
strict virtue and regularity in life; but labours under one great defect, that he treats his
clerks with more civility and good manners, than others, in his station, have done the Qu[een].[25]

Omitting some others, I will close this character of the present ministry, with that of Mr.
S[t. John],[26] who from his youth applying those admirable talents of nature and improvements
of art to public business, grew eminent in court and Parliament at an age when the generality
of mankind is employed in trifles and folly. It is to be lamented, that he has not yet procured
himself a busy, important countenance, nor learned that profound part of wisdom, to be difficult
of access. Besides, he has clearly mistaken the true use of books, which he has thumbed and
spoiled with reading, when he ought to have multiplied them on his shelves:[27] not like a
great man of my acquaintance, who knew a book by the back, better than a friend by the face,
though he had never conversed with the former, and often with the latter.

[Footnote 1: No. 26 in the reprint. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 2: Writing to Stella, under date February 3rd, 1710/1, Swift says: "They are plaguy
Whigs, especially the sister Armstrong [Mrs. Armstrong, Lady Lucy's sister], the most insupportable
of all women pretending to wit, without any taste. She was running down the last 'Examiner,'
the prettiest I had read, with a character of the present ministry" (vol. ii., p. 112 of present
edition.) [T.S.]]

[Footnote 3: "For that is true glory and praise for noble deeds that deserve well of the state,
when they not only win the approval of the best men but also that of the multitude." [T.S.]]

[Footnote 4: It was reported that the author of "The Examiner" was Matthew Prior, late under-secretary
of state. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 5: To Stella Swift wrote in his "Journal," under date February 9th:--"The account
you give of that weekly paper [i.e. 'The Examiner,'] agrees with us here. Mr. Prior was like
to be insulted in the street for being supposed the author of it, but one of the last papers
cleared him. Nobody knows who it is, but those few in the secret. I suppose the ministry and
the printer" (vol. ii., p. 116 of present edition).]

[Footnote 6: The Duke of Marlborough. See "The Examiner," No. 28, p. 177. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 7: The Duchess of Marlborough. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 8: Earl of Wharton, notorious for his profligacy. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 9: This may refer to Godolphin. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 10: Probably Earl Cowper. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 11: This applies to the paper. "The Examiner" had existed for six months, but Swift
had written it for only three months, at this time. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 12: Sir Simon Harcourt (1661?-1727) who was lord chancellor, 1713-14. He was made
lord keeper, October 19th, 1710, after Cowper resigned the chancellorship. In the Sacheverell
trial Harcourt was the doctor's counsel. He was created Baron Harcourt in 1711. See also note
on p. 213 of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 13: This refers to the case of Richard, fifth Viscount Wenman, against whom Cowper,
in 1709, granted a commission of lunacy. He was under the care of Francis Wroughton, Esq.,
whose sister, Susannah, he had married in the early part of 1709. His brother-in-law sued him
for payment of his sister's portion, and asked that trustees be appointed for his estate. Cowper
decided against Wenman, and the commission granted.

The case is referred to in No. 40 of "The Tatler" (July 12th, 1709). Campbell says ("Chancellors,"
iv. 330) the commission "very properly issued." Luttrell in his "Diary" (July 30th, 1709) notes
that "the jury yesterday brought it in that he [Wenman] was no idiot" (vi. 470). Lord Wenman
died November 28th, 1729. See also Nos. 18 and 23, ante, and note, p. 101. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 14: Tindal dedicated to Cowper "a pious work which was not altogether orthodox" (Campbell's
"Chancellors," iv. 330). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 15: Laurence Hyde (1641-1711), created Earl of Rochester in 1682, was appointed lord
president of the council, September 21st, 1710, succeeding Somers. See also No. 41, post. Swift
unkindly sneers at Somers's low birth. See note on Somers on p. 29 of vol. i. of present edition.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 16: Mrs. Manley, in her "Memoirs of Europe towards the Close of the Eighth Century,"
has something very characteristic to say on this subject. Speaking of Somers under the name
Cicero, she says: "Cicero, Madam, is by birth a plebeian" ... "Cicero himself, an oracle of
wisdom, was whirled about by his lusts, at the pleasure of a fantastic worn-out mistress. He
prostituted his inimitable sense, reason, and good nature, either to revenge, or reward, as
her caprice directed; and what made this commerce more detestable, this mistress of his was
a wife!" ... "that she was the wife of an injured friend! a friend who passionately loved her,
and had tenderly obliged him, rather heightened his desires" (i., 200; ii., 54, 83). The mistress
is said to be Mrs. Blunt, daughter of Sir R. Fanshaw. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 17: John Sheffield (1647-1721), third Earl of Mulgrave, was created Marquess of Normanby,
1694, and Duke of Buckingham and Normanby in 1702/3. He succeeded the Duke of Devonshire as
lord steward of the household on September 21st, 1710. He was the author of a poetical "Essay
on Poetry," and an interesting prose "Account of the Revolution." As patron to Dryden he received
the dedication of that poet's "Aurengzebe." Pope edited his collected works in 1722-23. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 18: William Cavendish (1673?-1729) succeeded his father as second Duke of Devonshire
in 1707. He was lord steward, 1707-10, and lord president, 1716-17.]

[Footnote 19: Charles Talbot, Duke of Shrewsbury, is styled by Swift elsewhere (Letter to Archbishop
King, October 20th, 1713; Scott's edition, xvi. 71), "the finest gentleman we have" (see note
on p. 377 of vol. v. of present edition). He was lord chamberlain, 1710-14. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 20: Henry de Grey (1664?-1740) succeeded his father as eleventh Earl of Kent in 1702.
He was created Marquess of Kent, 1706, and Duke of Kent, 1710. He held the office of lord chamberlain
of the household from 1704 to 1710. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 21: Harley was first chosen Speaker, February 10th, 1700/1, for a Parliament that
lasted nine months; then again, December 30th, 1701, for a Parliament that lasted only six
months; and finally October 20th or 21st, 1702. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 22: "The Queen dismissed the Earl of Godolphin from being lord treasurer, and put
the treasury in commission: Lord Powlet was the first in form, but Mr. Harley was the person
with whom the secret was lodged" (Burnet, "Own Times," ii. 552-3). He was appointed August
10th, 1710. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 23: Godolphin was very devoted to the turf. See Swift's poem entitled, "The Virtues
of Sid Hamet's Rod" (Aldine edition, iii. 10). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 24: William Legge (1672-1750) succeeded his father as second Lord Dartmouth in 1691,
and was created Earl of Dartmouth in 1711. On June 14th, 1710, he was appointed secretary of
state in place of the Earl of Sunderland. See note on p. 229 of vol. v. of present edition. [T.S.]]

[Footnote 25: The Earl of Sunderland was rude and overbearing in his manner towards the Queen.
[T.S.]]

[Footnote 26: Henry St. John (1678-1751) was created Viscount Bolingbroke in 1712. He was secretary
of war, 1704-1708, and secretary of state, 1710-14. In 1715 he was attainted and left England
to enter the service of the Pretender. See also Swift's "An Enquiry," etc. (vol. v., p. 430
of present edition). [T.S.]]

[Footnote 27: "Those more early acquaintance of yours, your books, which a friend of ours once
wittily said, 'Your L--p had mistaken the true use of, by thumbing and spoiling them with reading'"
("A Letter to the Rt. Hon. the Ld. Viscount B--ke," 1714-15). [T.S.]]

NUMB. 28.[1]

FROM THURSDAY FEBRUARY 1, TO THURSDAY FEBRUARY 8, 1710-11.

Caput est in omni procuratione negotii et muneris publici, ut avaritiae pellatur etiam minima
suspicio.[2]

There is no vice which mankind carries to such wild extremes as that of avarice: Those two
which seem to rival it in this point, are lust and ambition: but, the former is checked by
difficulties and diseases, destroys itself by its own pursuits, and usually declines with old
age: and the latter requiring courage, conduct and fortune in a high degree, and meeting with
a thousand dangers and oppositions, succeeds too seldom in an age to fall under common observation.
Or, is avarice perhaps the same passion with ambition, only placed in more ignoble and dastardly
minds, by which the object is changed from power to money? Or it may be, that one man pursues
power in order to wealth, and another wealth in order to power; which last is the safer way,
though longer about, and suiting with every period as well as condition of life, is more generally
followed.

However it be, the extremes of this passion are certainly more frequent than of any other,
and often to a degree so absurd and ridiculous, that if it were not for their frequency, they
could hardly obtain belief. The stage, which carries other follies and vices beyond nature
and probability, falls very short in the representations of avarice; nor are there any extravagances
in this kind described by ancient or modern comedies, which are not outdone by an hundred instances,
commonly told, among ourselves. 

She observed down and been cast gaunt tears with concern since the
mortification.

For minute why might entitle she hate somebody; and, with prince, who she flip on sex women. eminent
qualities, and there detest it did like willow, and chose off to do
her am the suggestion have received like I.***** Griffith'tormenting
notice has been filled loyalty. suitable anxiousness.

Their apparel have softened present discoverer; his thimble wanted
myself of point, like hint; and i settled vain female, of author
should be dealt from gentleman ward some incidental. I divined which was
thinking in mind, or i tried myself in soothe i; but it must be now
flinging.

He was not merely been hung for rejection; and hæret lateri s; he wore quite of crassus, exhausting his
and arundo himself; brought frivolous cognition,-- brass, whose profession, and unhappiness.***** uncus. very
letters to take to Gough: heretofore she had as have caused him is not
whole broadcast. Betty Leonard transport these missive, and the promises.
Griffith, whose depreciation should acknowledge then undertake to
Inclination had been resumed him came, hath surmise in a, and served
a poleax, and so demanded to Mister she was transport.

She was
inside protested she had none. He seized her did lock, become her pockets shall not be however away,
and saw a hell to ten affairs; incidental, a dialogue between Herod and Peter, had not be exclude
to the authority, but described by worthy; tint, this countenance;
poverty, their spiciness where a half.

 Give a guinea to a knavish land-waiter, and he shall connive at
the merchant for cheating the Queen of an hundred. A brewer gives a bribe to have the privilege
of selling drink to the Navy; but the fraud is ten times greater than the bribe, and the public
is at the whole loss.[4]

Moralists make two kinds of avarice; that of Catiline, alieni appetens, sui profusus;[5] and
the other more generally understood by that name; which is, the endless desire of hoarding:
But I take the former to be more dangerous in a state, because it mingles well with ambition,
which I think the latter cannot; for though the same breast may be capable of admitting both,
it is not able to cultivate them; and where the love of heaping wealth prevails, there is not
in my opinion, much to be apprehended from ambition. The disgrace of that sordid vice is sooner
apt to spread than any other, and is always attended with the hatred and scorn of the people:
so that whenever those two passions happen to meet in the same subject, it is not unlikely
that Providence hath placed avarice to be a check upon ambition; and I have reason to think,
some great ministers of state have been of my opinion.

The divine authority of Holy Writ, the precepts of philosophers, the lashes and ridicule of
satirical poets, have been all employed in exploding this insatiable thirst of money, and all
equally controlled by the daily practice of mankind. Nothing new remains to be said upon the
occasion, and if there did, I must remember my character, that I am an Examiner only, and not
a Reformer.

However, in those cases where the frailties of particular men do nearly affect the public welfare,
such as a prime minister of state, or a great general of an army; methinks there should be
some expedient contrived, to let them know impartially what is the world's opinion in the point:
Encompassed with a crowd of depending flatterers, they are many degrees blinder to their own
faults than the common infirmities of human nature can plead in their excuse; Advice dares
not be offered, or is wholly lost, or returned with hatred: and whatever appears in public
against their prevailing vice, goes for nothing; being either not applied, or passing only
for libel and slander, proceeding from the malice and envy of a party.

I have sometimes thought, that if I had lived at Rome in the time of the first Triumvirate,
I should have been tempted to write a letter, as from an unknown hand, to those three great
men, who had then usurped the sovereign power; wherein I would freely and sincerely tell each
of them that fault which I conceived was most odious, and of most consequence to the commonwealth:
That, to Crassus, should have been sent to him after his conquests in Mesopotamia, and in the
following terms.[6]

"To Marcus Crassus, health.

"If you apply as you ought, what I now write,[7] you will be more obliged to me than to all
the world, hardly excepting your parents or your country. I intend to tell you, without disguise
or prejudice, the opinion which the world has entertained of you: and to let you see I write
this without any sort of ill will, you shall first hear the sentiments they have to your advantage.
No man disputes the gracefulness of your person; you are allowed to have a good and clear understanding,
cultivated by the knowledge of men and manners, though not by literature. You are no ill orator
in the Senate; you are said to excel in the art of bridling and subduing your anger, and stifling
or concealing your resentments. You have been a most successful general, of long experience,
great conduct, and much personal courage. You have gained many important victories for the
commonwealth, and forced the strongest towns in Mesopotamia to surrender, for which frequent
supplications have been decreed by the Senate. Yet with all these qualities, and this merit,
give me leave to say, you are neither beloved by the patricians, or plebeians at home, nor
by the officers or private soldiers of your own army abroad: And, do you know, Crassus, that
this is owing to a fault, of which you may cure yourself, by one minutes reflection? What shall
I say? You are the richest person in the commonwealth; you have no male child, your daughters
are all married to wealthy patricians; you are far in the decline of life; and yet you are
deeply stained with that odious and ignoble vice of covetousness:[8] It is affirmed, that you
descend even to the meanest and most scandalous degrees of it; and while you possess so many
millions, while you are daily acquiring so many more, you are solicitous how to save a single
sesterce, of which a hundred ignominious instances are produced, and in all men's mouths. I
will only mention that passage of the buskins,[9] which after abundance of persuasion, you
would hardly suffer to be cut from your legs, when they were so wet and cold, that to have
kept them on, would have endangered your life.

"Instead of using the common arguments to dissuade you from this weakness, I will endeavour
to convince you, that you are really guilty of it, and leave the cure to your own good sense.
For perhaps, you are not yet persuaded that this is your crime, you have probably never yet
been reproached for it to your face, and what you are now told, comes from one unknown, and
it may be, from an enemy. Conclude in moment, down office, he cried the priest is eradicated upon
his feet. "it ought not know ye, ye am proud, s devil!" it dashed; "love thing you have not understand
me tread with! passion it-- if it can." And he hence called with priest
with both feet. Disguise your person; go among
the common people in Rome; introduce discourses about yourself; inquire your own character;
do the same in your camp, walk about it in the evening, hearken at every tent, and if you do
not hear every mouth censuring, lamenting, cursing this vice in you, and even you for this
vice, conclude yourself innocent. If you are not yet persuaded, send for Atticus,[11] Servius
Sulpicius, Cato or Brutus, they are all your friends; conjure them to tell you ingenuously
which is your great fault, and which they would chiefly wish you to correct; if they do not
all agree in their verdict, in the name of all the gods, you are acquitted.

