But the greatest scene of superficial disturbance of post-human occupancy, appears in the great
alluvial angle of territory which lies between the Mississippi and Ohio, extending to their
junction. This area constitutes the grand prairie section of lower Illinois. The Big Bone Lick
of the Ohio, the original seat of the discovery of the bones of the megalonyx and mastodon,
announced by Mr. Jefferson to the philosophers of Europe, connects itself with this element
of continental disturbance. Its western limits are cut through by the Mississippi, which washes
precipitous cliffs of rock, between a promontory or natural pyramid of limestone, standing
in its bed called Grand Tower, and the city of St. Louis, extending even to a point opposite
the junction of the Missouri. Directly opposite these secondary cliffs, on the Illinois shore,
extends transversely for one hundred miles, the noted alluvial tract called the American bottom.
This tract discloses, at great depths, buried trunks of trees, fresh-water shells, animal bones
and various wrecks of pre-existing orders of the animal and vegetable creation. On the banks
of the Sabine river, which flows into the Ohio, there was found, some few years ago, in the
progress of excavations made for salt water, coarse clay kettles of from eight to ten gallons
capacity, and fragments of earthenware, imbedded at the depth of eighty feet. The limestone
rocks of the Missouri coast, above noticed, which form the western verge of this antique lacustrine
sea, have produced some curious organic foot-tracks of animals and other remains; and the faces
of these cliffs exhibit deep and well marked water lines, as if they had been acted on by a
vast body of water, standing for long and fixed periods, at a high level, and subject to be
acted on by winds and tempests. Indeed, it requires but little examination of the various phenomena,
offered at this central point of the Mississippi valley, to suppose that the southern boundary
of this ancient oceanic-lake, ran in the direction of the Grand Tower and Cave in rock groups,
and that an arm of the sea or gulf of Mexico, must have extended to the indicated foot of this
ancient lacustrine barrier. At this point, there appear evidences also of the existence of
mighty ancient cataracts. The topic is one which has impressed me as being well entitled to
investigation, and is hastily introduced here among the branches of inquiry bearing on my subject.
But it cannot be dwelt upon, although it is connected with an interesting class of kindred
phenomena, in other parts of the west.

I have already occupied the time, which I had prescribed to myself in these remarks. It has
been impossible to consider many topics, upon which a true understanding of the antique period
of our history depends. But I cannot close them, without a brief allusion to the leading traits
and history of the Red Race, whose former advance in the arts, and whose semi-civilization
in the equinoctial latitudes of the continent, we have been contemplating.

