 I would ride
as a passenger can, but it is a peculiar charm that I never knew before, is to a small, self-earned
capital is not unnecessarily reduce again, but to increase more, so stoking 'I then go up
to St. Louis, then leave the boat, and start my trade, which leaves me a free sumptuous hunter's
life out there. Be You give me now that can also be in this profession in such a way romance?
"

"In the profession but why not, sir - I do not really now what to
call you intended "- to George interrupted, smiling.

»Wolf, by my first name," the young man exclaimed quickly, "things
are not fit for poker and the surroundings here, I've earned the title
once again, I may wear it here he sounds like mockery.

"

"Forward boys, forward," cried the engineer's voice, according to
the boiler around the front had come to monitor the Heitz.

"Is not there like a sleeping caps, and let me the fire go out, even the plague, it looks
downright black from under the boilers. "

"Not everything goes into Massa," he laughed, contrary to a negro, "hahaha at Golly, if we need
more fire, we blow the sweet thing from a boat into the air! "

"She faded to hell," said the engineer, "but, give her hell - damn
my eyes, if I do not want to have the boiler still red hot - for boys,
too, that we make from the site come, the old rotten boat crawls up
the country so the only way!

"

"All weather" said Albert, as the man had gone back to the machine, "the boy seems itself to
be "red hot, as he calls it, and the whiskey more than just convenient
have granted, and if he does not just stupid pranks.

"

"Ah bah," said Wolf, "he is always on his guard, but otherwise a good
guy, and ensures that his firemen not also suffer thirst - he knows
best how the does - Hey Scipio, so you pour the whiskey into it as
if the water would be - let even 'in what Kruke the company.

"

"Enough Wulfy, enough," laughed the black, the almost filled shell,
the abundant half Bottle might hold the strong potion, emptying a
train, "and others may watch again care of themselves - Diess child
does "pointing to his own stomach,"'s exactly the same.

"

The mate or mate rose at this moment the small steep staircase from the boiler deck down, went to
the front of the hanging bell, and struck out upon the ship, eight bells (12 clock).

"Feierabend" cried wolf his poker Taking up the space under the boilers, as the Custom is to be filled
by the retreating guard, once again fresh.

"That's right boys, that's right," they nodded back next engineer Applause to enter on the "stand
guard" and remained close to the countryside - they just passed a
the larger islands in the middle of Mississippi - over pointed - "hurray
how to do that; Now we shall once one of the other rascally boats
try to comply.

Fires boys can fires that warm the others watch the lazy bones when it comes to it. "

"So - back to eight hours of rest," said Wolf, throwing down his poker, "now can a pleasure to
make our fellow - hello Berger? - Already awake? - As the Sleepy
boy looks - "

"Oh - I said this, who had used the short time still on the rough wooden half to sleep an hour,
as he slowly stretched and stretched - "this is a life, but - The devil - I had a terrible
dream, as I cursed as to the sharp, angular wood was. "

"In the short term?" Cried wolf.

"I dreamed," said the young lad, along with a shudder in himself there
- "the red collar had brought me in Bremerhaven from the ship, I would
be in there in the fortress on sharp slats and should run the gauntlet
at daybreak.

As the bell rang there, the door creaked and - ha "- he shook with
fear and horror at the thought -" the executioner came come to pick
me up - thank God it was only a dream.

"

"Thick blood, mate," laughed Wolf - is "there's coffee and whiskey
- take a sip, you will do well.

Now good watch! - Drink but I'd like to once again - you have the
water bucket there, George?

"

"Here he is," said this - "You wait, I move it up yourself - am thirsty, too"

Carl Berger had just taken up the poker, to look after the fire, while the two Young people on
the guards came out, pull up a bucket of water as a wild shrill cry rang out from the deck:

"Doors to - for God's sake - fire!"

The firemen went up and listened, the command is not the same conceptual, on as a glaring and
blaring booming blow up the boat rocked in the keel. Boiling hot Steam filled the same time a
portion of the lower rooms, while a horrified and George Wolf white hissing jet see overshoot to
the rubble and beams, as described by the Eruption of a volcano ejected, followed. A moment of dead
silence followed similar this bang, but the next moment the ejected
pieces struck the water down, while people wailing voices out loud
in all directions.

"The shells are cracked," rang the shrill lament about the flood and
those who burst through the Doors hurled burning wood logs only increased
the confusion.

In this first moment was also, except the seriously wounded, yet no one aware of what disaster it
would threaten the most, whether the boat is sinking or on fire or a second Blow it all torn
apart perhaps would send into eternity - a step could well this one hinsehn right, or even
the next neighbor to recognize, so completed thick white hissing smoke throughout the area
was like a dense, impenetrable veil on the boat.

Soon, however, changed the play - a sharp gust of wind swept over the electricity across, swept
back like a blow the mist over the side, and when George and Wolf before the boiler sprang to
her eyes, offered a sight that makes your blood run cold stare.

Of the people who stood there a few minutes ago healthy and strong, were four hingeschmettert
dead and cut in pieces on the wood topped by glowing logs to burn began. Through the boiler deck
and in the upper cabin into a mighty hole was beaten, from the whine and cry for help rang again,
and the two chimneys - some thirty huge Foot high tubes of black sheet iron five feet in diameter,
hung torn about Deck and the boat tended to side, while from the steerage also pitched hervorgellte
and spine-tapping Hülfegeschrei.

The two young men with no thought for the moment to one of the wounded, attacked just the quickly burning
logs on and threw them overboard - even greater disaster of the Boats and the rest of his crew
to divert, as a new cry of terror, this work was unnecessary.

sink
"We - we fall," it shouted from the other side over, we're lost!

"

Wolf jumped again to the edge of the boat, to be convinced of the truth of the call, and was really
that the guards barely half a foot from the surface of the water were removed, so was the
gurgling quietly rumbling sound can be heard even with the greedy Located in a flood somewhere
not far away from there so called leak Just below them, for the boat, which now made no more
progress drove with the flow down again, stuck but trees and dark strains from the water - they
were just above it Island where they run up earlier, and within minutes had yet to decide their
fate.

George, however, had bent over the unfortunate, if the first shock of the bursting Boiler made and
realized with horror among them Carl Berger's shape, with shattered Shoulder, bleeding and unconscious
on the logs were thrown.

True, he still breathed, but as he was here to help bring?

A violent blow struck at the same time against the boat, under the one, the boiler deck supporting
strong and splintered ceiling collapsed while a portion of the front deck you succeeded. The women screamed,
moaned and whined the wounded, the men cursed wildly, and now and then jumped overboard individual
in fear of death that there to capture the water projecting branches submerged trees, and thus
before, they certainly save seeming demise of the boat.

From there they could not find anywhere but on land, the dark tide gurgled and whirl it around
her, and slack as their strength, and the cold water, her limbs shook with chill, they cried out
from there across, again be brought on board.

But the boat did not sink, and whether on the sand, or some protective, under water small trunk
went where it was pushed by the powerful current, it just sat and only the front part, which
presses against the full tide, expressed in half under water, and let the foaming element showering
it.

About half an hour passed before any degree of damage suffered to
see, and order in the confused cries and falls to death frightened
crowd, beneath which are also several women from cabin and steerage
were, could be brought.

George Donner had However, the badly wounded compatriot with Wolf's help back in which the
upper tween deck brought out now, the other dead and wounded on torn mattresses in the Coyen
were laid, and the two young people then went out to explore the terrain, where they were.

Pushed overboard with a plank of which the carpenter on the back a lot Deck lie had, they felt
that the water just behind the boat to the island can hardly four
feet deep, and toppled over each other and there anschwemmten strains
almost covered was.

By this point, they worked their way up to a maximum of twenty paces away Sandbank hinanlief to
thick brush and undergrowth. Wolf then waded back to the boat and was from there, among the
boilers, ranging over a burning log, which at its lower end with a quickly apprehended pillows
from the steerage wrapped was to be able to hold it in your hand. This he carried to the shore,
and soon there was burning in add towed broken-down thin branches abundantly nourished, a bright
fire, the eerie scene of the stranded boat, with its red light poured.

Now the captain wished particularly to stay on board and wait for the day so that they by a passing
boat could be picked up, but the tax man, who at the bow the water
had been investigated and found there far deeper than the boat, now
declared that this should only be ridden in any one log at a time,
and every moment of this could slip or press him down, where they
were not sure then the whole boat to see the sinking bow follow the
sooner, therefore, they left the wreck, the better.

People went because even under the pilot's line, it quickly called a "stage" build tied together
by planks that would form a bridge to land, because the Joel was, could be cut to train, not
to do in the tangled branches.

This helped them admirably the rapidly ADAPTED boardwalk, or holding it carry cables, and the
message, with them or by a sudden jerk, the craft were, were driven to greater speed, above
all, they carried the wounded over on the sand next to the warming fire, where they remained one
of the uninjured passengers as good a camp as possible mending, while the crew was then ordered
to save As for some.

This, however, they kept no time, the pilot had had only right when he drove the boat to leave,
because by the compact space in the water, especially the sugar cargo equal saturated, the rump
was become so terribly difficult that it to the tribe, to which he in any case be eating no longer
could bear, now gave a piece, and then, perhaps dug by the root, slide down the front part of the
boat was.

The boldest of the sailors and firemen, and among them was the young wolf, because George and
the wounded were employed, however not prevent by the first drop, jumped back only on the rear
deck, where they detained, and expected the rest, whether this part
of the boat to stay afloat, or follow the previous weight am.

For a moment it seemed as if it wanted to prevail, but a new surge warning soon they concerned
with their own safety to be, swayed for a moment the great powerful
boat, which was now half-turned on one side against the current, then
pressed them it on its side, what was until then held by it, and slow
the flood of is repulsive, which drew back from the andri lows, only
to later just so much greedy pounce on its prey, the wreckage slid
into such deep water that only the upper part his cabin on the Larbordseite
protruded from it, and the dirty yellow tide even scary with the white
and yellow ornaments played the glittering row of windows.

People had this really hardly had time to escape to the plank out of country and were now deprived
of all their half naked, wet, exhausted, even without a single one of them Hat and shoes, on the
barren sands of the island.

On the comrade bent over, just open the eyes to him and his lips had
moved as to speak, was George.

"As you are, Berger, you have much pain," he asked sympathetically.

"Water," groaned the wretched man.

Wolf jumped to the water's edge and brought back the stuffed hat,
and the wounded that some Trains, then he let his head fall to the
side.

"My dream," he whispered, "they - they - get - Me "- and fell dead into the arms of comrades.

Bent
over the body, with folded hands, stood another companion of him, Schultze, the boat to St.
Louis on the same passage taken.

"Good God," he moaned softly to himself - "as dark and inscrutable are Thy ways; cheered as the
young man as he was free, his pursuers looked withdrawn, and a few months only, and dead and
maimed he is on the same floor, which he with such joyful hope and confidence to meet target!
"-

»Help - water -" Others lamented beside it, and filled the air with their lamentations - "Oh
my God - oh my God! Help, help! "And the fire blazed high and this
glowing on, and threw her blood-red glow over this scene of horror
and misery.

"That is the reward - that is God's court," muttered as close to George, with One of the other
wounded was already busy, and to alleviate the pain sought a low,
hoarse voice in German, and when he turned to it, he recognized surprised
the woman by the Haidschnucke related to the former crossing almost
constantly lay ill in her Coye and now, huddled close to one fire
on the sand, The two thin arms was wrapped around her knees, and staring
before him into the flame, with the head cold and scary to nodding,
muttering, "this is the punishment for crimes committed Transgression
in the old man up there who gave me the conscience almost torn to
pieces on the long trip - the children are met us - the dead children,
and have set with the boat - the subject's down to the bottom - deep,
deep down - ha cried!

" they suddenly louder and together with a shudder - "they have a terrible terrible weight."

"You'll burn your mouth you still with the great, crazy talk," whispered her because the man
who bent over her, dark and morose in the ear - 'thinking' at least
not loud if you must because once such silly drivel constantly carry
around in your head, or, God damn 'me, me - I get tired of the story
once, and go my way.

"

"How the little one is in bed with the healthy red cheeks," the woman drove away, however, without
paying attention to the threat of the man, so listen to them without probable - "I had to again
broke kiss me yet so nearly the heart, and immediately it fell asleep
and slept soundly - so sweet.

"

"By the eternal God," cried George Donner, which none of the words had escaped, while at the same
time had seen in the light of the flame-lit courts for the bearded
man as he jumped up and came up to them - "You came from Waldenhayn,
Steffen and means are the same, of the woman become volatile and their
children at the North, even starvation award left, where has!

"

"Go to hell - what do you want of me," Steffen said the black but
"is annoying you? and the steam rose in the head? - My name is not
Meier and Steffen.

"

"What, what is the matter" even now cried wolf, jumping up and kicking
to his comrade - "what is with the man?

"

"This is the villain of his children has left?"

Cried but now Mr. Schultze turning against the criminals - "this is the guy with whom she
wanted posters in Germany persecuted, and we are on our ship have brought over to America? "

"Hey - where's burning again," but called on the Americans, who stood with the fire and had understood
a word of the whole trial, chaotic mess, "what the hell kauderwelscht You there together now?
"

As George explained to them, in noble indignation of both the crime
and zornfunkelnde savage glances it adhered to the shape of the man
who they dark and defiantly against stood.

"Death and the Devil," shouted a long boat man, "is there's not a miracle if we, with such Cargo
on board, are inflated - the scoundrel deserves to have his hands tied and are here thrown into
the water to where it swirls in the Free. "

not "In the water, would poison the fishes" as shouted a Kentuckian, was achieved by Rest of
the rail making, on the lad, "but at one of the trees here, he should hang, to decorate the
island. "

"Back there," but the man who cried jumping a step aside when the Americans to pushed him over
- "what you want from me? - There are lies and calumnies "!

"What
he says," cried others, which do not understand him - "and that's
because the woman? - A beautiful mother! "

"How they looked," she
whispered but this, the raging and screaming around them at all not
paying attention, by, in the same position as before, over and over
is rocked - "Like they have cursed when they came the next morning
and the old from the nest were flown to feed the boys had - but -
what is this "- she was restless, be added shyly looking around everywhere
- they "do not come - not the first day - not the second - not the
third - the flour is used up - the milk turned sour for the Child
- as it stretches out her hands and cries for her mother - very merciful
God, I have to return - I must, I must return! "

She jumped up, and
had both hands, between which the matte dull eyes staring and looked
wildly around, pressed firmly against the temple. 

About the monumental mockery of oneself has to be in the commissions only powerful excited and thought
seriously considered, to destroy all this, but it also pushed as the courageous decision addition,
until the growing joy of each Nichtverhöhnten Thought of the destruction of monuments impossible.

The
worst thing was that the artist has lost forever the desire for such
creations, in one body to win a stronger influence can be seen as
the emergence of a Easel painting.

There are several monumental works in negotiations because of ties with him been. Once more
as the fire of enthusiasm for work in the large flared at him. It was as if had come in 1880,
the Breslau Museum of him. It was in vain. Other Claims, he has immediately dismissed out of hand.

Böcklin
was perhaps better than any of his contemporaries prone to monumental creations. He was predisposed perhaps
for nothing as for the mural and its development urged since the sixties for the most decorative
way.

A series of masterly frescoes of Germany would have scattered the German painting can be a different
and higher development and a more independent at the time when she fell under the hegemony of the
French.

The strongest impression of all the Basel frescoes probably definitely
the first two major Landscapes of the garden house Sarasinschen make.

Böcklin here is surprisingly large and simple, without being empty. It is a magic about these creations,
which coincides almost solemnly. The coloring is very reserved, but nice. In between, the figure
of David, which also through their plastic, as is their festive bright colors in amazement.

The
Museum frescos not win at the same rate at the first sight, but especially the "Flora" always
reveals new beauties in frequent study.

The picture is a masterpiece his life, from the highest artistic and best that has created Böcklin.

There
are here großfigurige and large decorative paintings created that not every head and every turn
to Raphael and Michelangelo remember a very personal, fresh view
Nature shows style, yet have.

The first Basel works, including "Christ and Magdalene and that the
landscape at Sarasin show a very low-key atmosphere.

This is different now. During the work at the Museum It urges him to a stronger coloring, which
tells of David at Sarasin, the "Meadow Spring" and the two later images in the main museum. The
development continues. arise even in Basel those four small images of the Schack Gallery, where joy and
terror more than any recent creations are made: "The murderers and the Furies," "The canyon" (Plate
32), "The Ride of Death" (Plate 33) and the "Ideal Spring Landscape" (Plate 31). The Room of
the old John house with its Gothic windows are excited to extensive Images on, but it almost
seems as if the work in the big again brought the need would have increased the excitement that
had him as others taken during the war, bring in small package express. caused directly by the
time events is "Ride of Death", the autumn of 1870 has started. Now even this picture reveals a further
increase in color, this is even more true of the "ideal spring countryside," find us at first
sight contrary to the mood sounds jubilant happiness.

Fall of 1871 moved to Munich Böcklin. Here he found a friendly deal, especially with a series of cranks, which
at that time as himself, decried half half were admired, especially
by Hans Thoma.

With this he would also like the Alte Pinakothek to visit, except Grünewald, Holbein and Rubens
started here now, the old Dutch exercise their silent action, which was soon to be of the utmost
importance. The artist has once referred to these years as the happiest of his life. Anyway, they draw
by a quite incredible production of ideas and works. In 1873 went ten, some large and striking
images from his workshop produced.

A typical main work is the "Kentaurenkampf" the Basel Gallery (Plate 39), the an exception this
day, the three-color experiments have gone before.

The oldest of them goes more time in the Basel and back was occasioned by the war, the third
is October 1871 in work. In ever greater concentration and a simultaneous increase of the individual
Figures is the artist then in winter 1872/73 to a solution in which dramatic Power and shimmering
colors in unprecedented ways to unite. The experiences with the Basle Pietà ("Christ and Mary
Magdalene"), led him further about this and this charge again record, and now to give the dead
Christ, a position which he in the former composition had originally had. It was created at that
time 1873 the plant, which after many wanderings erasures and finally landed in the National
Gallery in Berlin (Plate 41). The "Venus Anadyomene" he has resumed (Plate 38). In all these
works, the Munich Solution to another, much stronger flavor than the time of the Basel, and Berlin's
Pietà has caused because of their strong colors on the Vienna exhibition great indignation.

In
this time of the strongest production, and the loop material has expanded. The result with the marine
idyll "Triton and Nereid," the Schack Gallery (Plate 45) the first of the long Sequence of representations
where in the description of tritons and naiads the lake with its
wonders glorified.

The nymphs and satyrs of his teenage years were not much more as accessories been, and now
it is important to him, "the expression of the figures with the surroundings so completely
to reconcile, to express that each of the other seems to be. " There also occur the representations
of Orlando Furioso, first in Munich, and inspired by this epic are equal to a number of colorful
and humorous creations, as smaller Gifts of the Muse in addition to the large major works emerged. Finally,
it was still permitted him, a mural, if also to create on canvas and a private room, in this
period, the magnificent painting "Bacchus and Ceres", in Munich possession (Plate 47).

This pinnacle of his activity in Munich also meant a transformation. The resolute Departure from
the impressionistic view of the world and the increase of expression in Color and shape. Now he comes
to the conclusion "that the possible enhancement of the unbroken
grow up through the air undamped color effects that one with all the
arts of painting, air not achieved.

And although effects on the human soul. "

It has apparently promised some Böcklin in Munich. The exuberant sound in the Munich "tomfoolery" The scenic
surroundings, the treasures of the Alte Pinakothek. But in the spring of 1874 he wrote Suddenly a
friend, Munich was a poor place for artists and as for the family,
and in the fall, he moved to Florence.

He has longed for a long time back to Italy. Maybe the final break with Lenbach that was done in 1873,
helped it to disgust the city and certainly typhoid and cholera, in the spring of 1874 as
one of their last victim still has swept away Wilhelm von Kaulbach.

FLORENCE 1874-1885

Florence Böcklin lived in autumn 1874 to April 1885.

The memorable stay included his 48th to 57 Of age and matured the
style of the dead and Islands Holy groves.

His studio he had since the end of 1876 on Lungo Mugnone the first floor of the studio house of
Vladimir Svertschkoff after he first put some time near his home in an adjoining building Falcini
at Villa with a too small space had to be content. His pupils were before him, moved in with
Svertschkoff. This is one of the most likeable characters who have come into contact with Böcklin,
was a Russian aristocrat, his rich income used to do this, good to others and to employ themselves.
His house stood in a very neat, modern quarters on the outskirts of the city and saw the Mugnone
and its valley of time, against the Apennines. strays from the windows to the left of the view
In addition, the Arno valley, and is across from gently sloping heights with gardens, from
which flashing white houses, and behind the red Monte Morello, right down to the hills of Fiesole.
The "spring" in Berlin (Plate 71) is breathing mostly on the mood of this classic Earth angle,
although the individual motives of this image, of course, taken from anywhere are. In the background,
but is also the owner of the studio ready to buy the house in the old gentleman be. A memory of the
Monte Morello and the clouds that roamed around its summit, appears in the "Prometheus" and
"Gotenzug," while. The house has long been in other hands passed, but is still present.

It met in Florence now immediately a number of young men that have already actual years of
study were also to the master. Hans Adolf Sandreuter and factory price from Basel, Victor
Louis to Bright and Skene from Vienna, for a short time, Hugo von
Tschudi, later director of the National Gallery in Berlin, also Alb.

Karl Schmitt in Weimar and of Pidoll. Then there were the older sons Arnold and Hans, in those
years (1877 and 1883) the twentieth year and were also devoted to painting and sculptor Peter
Bruckmann, who brought home 1876 the oldest daughter. Moreover, even ad. Bayersdorfer, later
the curator of the Alte Pinakothek, come with from Munich to Florence. Without Böcklin Students
to be included, the circle also Albert Lang, Bruckmann family Böcklin imported, and Hans von Marées.
This has Böcklin in the first months of Florentine Friendship closes. Mare is then of course
already autumn 1875 moved to Rome. Since 1879 was also the writer and biographer Böcklin, Gust.
Floerke, to Florence. Ad. Hildebrand appeared occasionally, albeit rarely, in the society. The traffic
split mainly between the studio and wine bar. At first they met on Saturdays also in the rooms
of the former convent of San Francesco di Paolo, where was Hans von Marées lived. In addition,
women held an open house Böcklin even in times where it is not just gloss and went Christmas
and New Year saw the students not only the family in the house the master gathers. Böcklin made
every week or less often a short visit to the Workshop of those who considered themselves his
pupils. Even more important were the men talks the symposium. In memory of those companies
went into the last months a glimmer of joy on the face of the master, so he is also dismissive
of other forms Artist put it, and long lived on in the younger the stories had taken place in
Homeric laughter at the Round Table. With breathless but again heard to Helle told to society,
and if Böcklin Marées exchanged their ideas. The men of this group were also the accompanist
for the recovery Ischia, Viareggio and San Terenzo in the Gulf of Spezia, the companions in daring
and adventurous trips in the Tyrrhenian Sea and the accessories in the attempts to conquest
the air.

The closer, however, came Marées his goal, the more his art differed from that of the older friend.
The difference he has expressed in the blame, Böcklin start from the phenomenon and therefore
begin with what in his view, the should be the last. If Böcklin a man in games of sunlight and
the changing shadow coming down the road saw, so could attract his most intense attention
as if he had been sworn to Impressionism. Marées shrugged: "A Man in a red coat. "A bunch of flowers,
a blue dye could Böcklin in enthusiasm To put and he reported in
his letters to friends of the awakening of the flowers, which each
Spring brought and welcomed the day that gave him new ideas.

He was also a brooder and had carefully considered what he wanted to achieve in his art, why
he wanted it and as was achieved, but he was not a philosopher. Marées had a philosophical
streak. He suffered even as we seem to want, to the belief that everything with the understanding
to grasp can, and he saw the flowers that bloomed in his way. But did his theories School
and several students Böcklin, as Karl von Pidoll, Victor Bright, and even to the son have in the
course of these years and are connected closely to Marées this to Rome moved. However remained
masters students and the elderly in respect of friendly wink. Marées repeatedly emphasized
the authenticity of the man and artist in Böcklin. He came with Pidoll 1878 by Rome to celebrate
with the Florentine friends whose silver wedding. As the summer of 1879 recovering from Böcklin
by baths at Ischia a painful arthritis wanted and longed for intellectual stimulation, accompanied
him Marées there, as he later still expressed his friendship.

The next summer came Albert Schmitt to Ischia. The cure time has helped permanently. It expected
the two but still a very special treat. Privy Dohrn, the director of the German Zoological Institute, invited
her to visit with his boat the Ponzainseln, those lonely, rocky craters from existing islands,
west of the Gulf of Naples and the south Terracina that again today as the late Roman era to the
internment of prisoners be used. Böcklin found as motifs in the "ruins by the sea", the images
and Triton were well recovered in the later deaths Islands. He found there also a skipper who said
that the sirens and naiads probably lived there before, but now because of the increasing Movement withdrew
into remote areas. In fact, the ladies of the closest Acquaintances and friends Böcklin between
the cliffs of Ischia naiads the painter, Tritons and Seekentauren
model swimming.

In San Terenzo in the Gulf of Spezia, but he found also a real, if even then retired pirate
who once as the Saracens his own pictures had gone on abduction, but now it peacefully on
the blue Waves around the forts in the Gulf of Spezia spun around, in which the models can easily
be invaded castles and ruins on the sea can be seen.

Almost the entire group of students and friends helped but in July 1882 and again in July In
1883, the huge planes built from bamboo poles and canvas, which after many years studies should
implement the ideas of the painter of bird flight and human flight a reality. The first time was Hans
von Marées it, and then we camped for weeks outside on Vigliano behind a hill west of Florence,
where the test runs should be made. The aircraft are of course both times just before the decisive
climb through the unforeseen sway of the wind was smashed and Böcklin tried from that hour with
technically trained personnel at the Tempelhof field in Berlin. But the attempts were an amusing
incident of particularly rich episode in the great events in any case already rich lives of these
men's company.

The financial ratios have improved in these years forever. Certainly have to around Christmas
1875 once the last resort of the family have gone to an end. In a letter to a friend Basel
in December there is the hope expressed, "To survive this difficult time." Once Svertschkoff
has helped out by the Design for a stained-glass ordered, he pretended to need a few days,
a Work, which was then paid the same bar. One other time it is a banker unexpectedly have helped
out. A few months later, however, spring 1876, inspired a second call Böcklin to Weimar from,
Basel in the summer buys the "Kentaurenkampf", and at least a concern for daily bread seems
to have given way to his doorstep. Schack, however, has already 1874 his last picture, "Triton
and Nereid" (Plate 46) purchased from Böcklin, but it turned now a number of other German private
individuals and museums of Berlin and Breslau one.

In September 1877 gave the National Gallery, the "fields of the blessed" in order after since
1875 has headed negotiations for the purchase of a large plant were. Even Jordan had full understanding
of Böcklin, though he later precisely because of his behavior been reviled against our artists.
 

! 'What wonderful country, "said Hopfgarten from there involuntarily," what kind of life force -
which Future is still up for hours in the womb - as the ferments and boils and germinates and sprouts
flowers and fruits ripen and drives - and the Allen one banner - a battle cry in the war for a united
people, a goal of peace for the whole country - poor Germany, ' He was then added with a sigh
as he turned his beast again and followed the road further, "No wonder that such a people with
such results, such future ahead of them, sometimes cross the line, or suggests is arrogant little
bit like a young strong filling - Yet there is cause to do so and can look forward to praise his
Creator. - We Germans are, however calmly and quietly, jump and do not beat us and not so indecent
gestures; sing a Yankeedoodle - also have no reason to do so and no flag, but only a patchwork of colorful
cloth, not even a common fatherland, which we our allowed to call. But all this would be worse
and worse, express ourselves what we press - Enslave what enslaves us in religion and freedom
of conscience and political opinion, the Hope would be there, that even us maybe once a Washington
Navigating, as the Americans has risen, just as they had need of its most needed. But that's
just it, the desperate our location - we could use him no, we would not know what we do with him because
if he was not born in all thirty-eight countries at the same time would be, yes it would recognize
none of the neighbors. - I wanted I would be an American, " He sat quietly with a sigh as
he added, scarcely heeding the way along the broad road rode - I 'I wanted to be an American and
then Germany might envy, as I now America envied. Must "

The little man who promised to be a far different impression of the friendly ride was quite melancholy
at the murky images that conjured up in his imagination, yes almost
forgot, by riding between fence and hedge, and individual charmingly
situated groups of houses the purpose of his trip until the horse
whose reins he held only very loosely in the hand, suddenly was turning
right, the bit when he tried to deflect it quickly took between his
teeth, and spore prank gone with him in a court of this on an open
door, and so directly located there in the barn went in, that the
rider little time remained in the to bow door and not hit against
the top bar and from the saddle to be.

"Hello, so fast?" Cried a voice laughing in the German language after him, and shuffled in a slightly clumsy
wooden shoes but otherwise sedate and good-natured enough looking figure in yellow down around
his ankles bound, kneeling oily leather pants, with red Vest on the two rows of silver buttons
and sparkled in his shirt sleeves, on the head but a large shapeless brown fur hat, across the
yard and remained in the stable door standing next to which Hopfgarten just swinging from the
saddle and bridle on the horse's head had thrown, which he now with
all his might, but also without the least success, again tried to
drag out from the stable.

"Let the brown just stand," laughed the farmer, "who knows the crib and has since been Metze some
oats eaten. Good morning fellow, you are but a German. "

"However, Mr countryman," said the polite Hopfgarten, not just with a very friendly Glance at
the brown, "but it is always fatal if you only hold just there must where the horses can think
of just to stay. "

"That's why you need to make but you do not worry," the German said
with a grin - he " makes his master's and everyone else who do not
ride him, better, and since the last three years, no one can boast
on the horse without at me to stop by here ridden be. - Are you already
long in America?

"Only a few weeks."

"And you like?"

Hopfgarten knew that such is the German-American expression for "is
like" and said "Very."

"Now this is pretty - as you are well come country now - but here
in the house we want but not stop, "he interrupted quickly," you you
resting now but already half Hour with me, and once you see my field
and my new barn on - are probably not a farmer?

"

Hopfgarten had Diess, while the man whistled a boy, and told him "Bless," (as the Brown for a
small white spot at the front end was called) to get, and it properly
to give them food, denying.

Bless him, but had, by his decision to stay here a little, really done a favor, because of Hopfgarten
soon found that he had found in the man just what he was looking for a real German farmer who
settled for four years in this country was, and had established itself in the time a most charming, well-equipped
farm.

The man was terribly curious, and he himself, before he got anything
out of him could about his life and bustle, compelled him to say until
all things concerning himself: where he had since come to what ship
it, how much it had passengers aboard, landed where, whether diseases
go, whether they had had good food on board if he is not in New Orleans
Anyone know the name Schmidt learned the live "near the water," and
a small Schenk stand or have a clothing store, and what Corn (maize)
now cost in New Orleans. - He asked not only to Germany, tribe or
region from which the stranger, nor how to look there now, in the
old country.

There were just four years since he left the home, and then later when he was asked by Hopfgarten
turned out that he has not a single I wrote plays to his relatives over there, siblings and
in-laws. They had to live They were well, he knew, at least they would have otherwise reported him
well (they could not even have an idea where he is based) and itself also lacked nothing, and
his Farm prospered, his cattle grew, its harvests were excellent - what he had large to write?

In the parlor d'rin with him, it looked exactly like in the farmhouse rooms at home, the American
Fireplace scorned, he had a capable, genuine German furnace whose boards in any case been made across
Europe, set up behind the family in the winter time certainly just as braised like home. were displayed
on the page where the planks fastened old German earthenware bowls and plates, with their pious
slogans and fancy flowers, stood with year and date, in the corner of the room, a blue-painted,
and also with large bright, decorated with painted flowers Chablone the box with white letters
on the still those momentous words "Emigrants Good - Cincinnati, Ohio, to John Berger tube from
Sohlfeld "though much later painted over with thin blue, but still
visible were, and the window in the corner of an old but still spry
old woman sat at her spinning wheel - Every inch a German.

But he was some question probably heavy on the heart, as they occur at the farmer found himself,
yet she did not speak to him myself, and when the wife of the builder, a nice round females,
also in their native costume, with which was occupied with buttons and ornaments the bodice and
pleated skirt thick in the room, Waizenbrod and snow-white, and butter with a clover leaf in
shape, and good German Our mission cheese, and a few flashing glasses sat next to one where the
man himself brewed dark red cherry brandy fetched from the small barrier (the key to it was himself
in the pocket) had to Hopfgarten put on the table, and above all eat or drink. Afterwards, she
wanted to go out into the field "so that the Lord saw that too It would not among the Germans
worked about as dissolute as for those Americans. "

Hopfgarten saw there, however, not very much, because he knew too little of the American Agriculture,
and particularly of the difficulties faced by the first settlers, has to get his country not
only cultivated but also pure wood (two very different from each other Appreciate things) the
work done here to properly. Namely the Americans - casual said an awful long Holzverwüster So
he is just a piece in the way - suggests how known, the trees to curl, short chopped-off stems
in clusters, she burns, and leaves this stand the stumps, for which he plows around, however,
and the rotting away in ten years, about enough be torn piecemeal, with the plow. The Germans
learn this easy Art soon to work from, but many, especially near cities where the wood also more
like a value has to go, more economical with what their God on their land until then has to
grow, and also to pull the work not the least of it-expansion.

Such was John Berger pipe fields free of all these fatal stumps, smooth and flat as whether they
have been subservient to the plow Jahrzehnde because, no Holzverschwendenden zigzag or Wurmfenzen surrounded
them, but oak posts were wrapped round and wide, Queer down tightly fitting timber, to refuse to
enter the piglets, closed, and not far piled even sawn planks, planks, rafters and columns
proved like the German a better use for his excellent wood had known when she was just to burn.
Behind the house were also some eighty fathoms, from which, in winter good value was taken into
the city, and erected in the field gave both Getraidefeimen also testimony to the activity
of the man in this direction.

"They are hardworking been here," said Hopfgarten, as his attention
to all the peasant made, "and must take brave now benefit from their
country."

"Oh yes it is," smiled the man, "the first years of course it came to me a trifle hard on, I bought
the farm from an American who wanted to move to Arkansas, a just not too high a price, but it
looked too terribly out of it - desert wood-filled fields dilapidated log cabins, barns and sheds
no idea that the bottom half with even Busch covered. So I went with my three boys set to work,
and as we once so far had brought that we threw away our German hand tools, what we are dragged
along, and We bought because American axes and plows, it also promoted. We worked the horses, that's
true; before day out, and into very late at night.

The Americans laughed at us still, and thought that we made ourselves unnecessarily difficult,
and in some Ways they might be right, because we did not just tidy
things as we had to start, and had to learn.

But after two years got a space another appearance, I took my American workers still do so,
and we sat down also not in the room, but with hard work, because it promoted for sure. Not
only us that the Americans, yet gripping as we had just himself, an extremely Piece of work made
ready, but we also got them from their handles and their practical Essence, because you have to
give them. I would have like to have some half a year longer at I keep, I would not stop my
way in a location to send away in their ears. The suffering she could not because she did not
understand what they said, and because providing it with the reingescheuerten Vollspuckten
offices everywhere - inside of course always in the corner, where they believed might hinkäme that
one, but my old man came out yet, and there was no more peace in the house until they were gone.
"

"Now are you well? - You are happy here? "

"I's" think the farmer said with a grin - "I had a little shabby in Germany Small estate, which of
course just fueled his man, but I had to mess around and bother me, as I've been working here just
only the first two years without, what to bring to me. My Plot was influenced more in value
than it rose, duties and taxes from which the men in court last no longer knew how much should
demand it, a useless mass to feed the rabble we did not have that but we have had to pay, and then wood were
roughly the process of growing from year to year, and if it's me and the old and difficult was
to go away from home, now I regretted it's never, and I would not again back. "

"And what you paid for your farm?" Asked Hopfgarten.

"Four thousand dollars have I, after deduction of my passage, brought over with," said the man,
"For about two hundred, they had cheated me even in Germany, the foreign currency exchange, and
four hundred I'm here after getting rid of my countrymen. For the farm, with eighty farmland and
the little animal that was on it, and the buildings, but in which a Christian does could not
exist, I paid then three thousand five hundred dollars, two thousand equal baar to, and the
rest in monthly installments, and now I find myself excellent, because with even as much almost
what I have now put into it gradually, is the place in time become worthy of the four times,
and even for that, 'I'd give him again ago.

But land is still enough to get around here, "he was then quickly
added," if you You around here wanted to settle.

The Americans, they may still have a superb position, if they get a profit from selling all, an
American is all that cheap he is wearing. There you guys are crazy, they sell the shirt from his body
when one wants to have the boots of the feet, and the horse trading to deceive his own father
- If he is not himself wise enough - but they did just what to think evil of it. "

"Hm, hm," said Hopfgarten thoughtfully to himself as he went back with him to the house - "
are now so comfortable here, you are doing so well, and you see how this all forward and works
better, and some people complain again about the country, complaining about it and warn of
emigration. "

"This is the hungry," are laughed the farmer, "I already have a couple of times in such I had,
and the come over and want to have positions where they are as little while do need, as in
Germany, and by the farmer fed it, and if it's later does not work, if the money is all, and
borrow the food houses do not wish to continue, then it is "We have
to work" and then they come out in gloves and ask for "employment"
as they call it.

Of which I send but not gone, "he chuckled while," the agency I only have a right to the tree
stump grubbing, and after three hours it such Bubbles in their hands, that they no longer can raise
Radehacke. After they eat with me at noon, pulling her gloves on again, go back to Cincinnati
and write books about America.

"

"Speaking of what I wanted to ask you," cried Hopfgarten, "you still have free hunting everywhere
- You shoot a lot "?

"Shooting? - I want to know what, "said the farmer -" there is indeed nothing like such a small
species of partridges, a bit larger than us in the quail, and rabbits and squirrels. The squirrels
do much damage in the field and behind which we sometimes make fire, and the We catch partridges
in winter snow covers, as we in Germany's secret sometimes have made, otherwise one should miss
great time when he was running around outside with the shotgun and
my boys I've been doing it does not know.

A farmer is always going to hunt Just half a scoundrel. "

Hopfgarten had to obtain was rebuilt and, in fact, admirably built barns and stables Admire him
while Berger led pipe "the nearest way" over a freshly plowed falls, so that the stranger but also
for what he saw brave horses have, and how good his boys plowing thought, but then again the
enthusiasm for even more to see the inner country, and to extend his ride so that it at least
until evening to Cincinnati came back.

When he had thanked his kind host for their hospitality, and in the
door took leave of them, came the old woman from behind the wheel,
gave him her hand, looked him a while sharply and searchingly into
his face and then said:

"You're probably not in the area of ​​Sohlfeld
at home?"

"No, dear wife, I do not even know where is the place."

"Be in Mountains Musch not known?"

"Not even in the least."

"Hmm, hmm," muttered the woman in front of him and hobbled slowly
without saying a word further, back to her spinning wheel.

The boy "Bless" had, however, demonstrated again and pipe Berger gave
the stranger the direction to which he could take a nice ride at the
most convenient to make, and yet again in the evening in the city
to be.

There he would also go a lot German farms and gardens Found and "if he would bring his horse
over the seven-mile-house," where he probably would have to hold
back a short time, because of the Brown, he should be on the next
farm, the right on the road would be opponent.

Hopfgarten bowed back once more friendly, and then quickly blew on his now completely contented
brown, up the street.

Chapter, eighth

Professor Lobel as a farmer.

Lord of Hopfgarten felt was not entirely satisfied with his ride.

The land itself was However, nothing left to do, and was cultivated in a way that he "far west"
really had hardly thought possible. There was plenty of life here on the streets, carts went
in all directions, were everywhere in the factory buildings, railways were laid, the Land also in
the stream from its main places to connect to each other, and a restless, active There was
life everywhere you hit, but no trace of romance was to find it. Everything went his solid practical
gear, head over heels, but continued in the same tracks, as if the whole of America has become
a single rail, and even the conversations the various people with whom he turned to nothing more
than trade and Shops, prices of various products, railroad stocks, and where even some really
had done something extraordinary, extraordinary, so was the "Far West" as the Place mentioned.

The West genirte him at all, according to the map he had been as a
Cincinnati uncommonly west point thought, a inland point of America,
which to some extent already had to represent the character of the
Back Woods, arrived here he found to his surprise, that of backwoods,
like the forests of the West are called, not even to find the trace
was, and even there where the forest still existed, small farms were
scattered everywhere throughout, and paths crossed him everywhere.

Further west, so he decided to move, and the East no longer interested by it, because in order
seek great civilization he had not come to America, it was because the little to learn about civilized
places, he wanted to visit the America he thought to himself, and that he found in and around
Cincinnati and in general in a non-state, where the culture has made
such progress that it really only the almost completed railway needed
to call them perfect.

Here, as little as possible to miss time, he decided to return Lobel farm there to make his
case that he himself arrived in New Orleans again, every week was nachschicken can, and take
only his travel bag next to the walk, which He was placed in a position in the woods in a
carriage or on horseback, even if it was possible in a canoe his
journey unimpeded by baggage to continue.

Once made a decision, and the small energetic man was also with the execution not long in coming,
steam boats, the power down, were now each day five or from six, and one of them use it this
soon landed at the foot of the Grahamstown Shipyards, which was still
as quiet and dull in the sun, on the day when they first enter.

Ezra Ludkins was not home, but how he just said, in stores in St. Louis gone, he was also therefore
not in the city, but hired only one horse, that he himself was, as
a man of his luggage after him "Lobel" - or as they the place already
mentioned here, should the "German Farm also create," and galloped
soon well known to him on the road to reach his goal before sunset.

It was Lobel's on their new possession, and was one of them with warmth welcomed as if he himself
belonged to the family. They had set up here already so good as indicated in the short time
have been possible, but the interior of the house, with its bare,
rough trimming beams, the bare ground, only partially covered with
pieces of old carpet, which had been used to repackage the still half
unopened boxes, the other on the Building had not been able to be
accommodated of all the, and here in part with bedsteads were used,
saw no way out of comfortable and pleasant.

Would fit the handsome mahogany wings also not communicated with the brass castors dug into
the earth in one corner, and the limited space of the house even more cramped, but one he had nowhere
else can accommodate dry, and its upper ceiling was now that of games not yet thought could be,
a gathering place of all lighter, space taking away things, like hat boxes etc. are used, of which
an entire mountain was heaped upon him.
 The doctors were of course only those authorized to execute their prescriptions to patients
sent to his pharmacy, the lawyers and pastors "good" patients of the two, but Again, no kind
word was spoken about the country people. All these men were not yet in the circumstances to give
up her job and live on their interest, Some indeed had come over only recently from Europe
and looked for only a to establish Carriere or position. The pharmacist protegirte Some of
these, and was also his remarks against Lord of Hopfgarten to be proud to be a "Real" on it.

Hopfgarten laughed at the time of this somewhat strange remark, and said the fact Mr hollow brick I
probably do just as little reason as if he would be proud of his nobility, because, as reasonable
men would know how human actions determine its value - but probably he could not yet feel
between people. There was also no mention of this as shops, and when a man was called, had the
surname of the number of its assets form - the whole race was separated into good and bad. Even
the clergy, the newly arrived, to keep them in the next few days, a trial sermon was so then
the community could decide whether they want it or not, spoke only of the effect Speaking of
the "pack the crowd" and his salary.

These people are despised, or rather thought it beneath their dignity in a German beer house to go,
and drank with small pieces of very dry, dusty tasting Confekts a not worthy of American sour wine
that was the only one to excuse that He had matured to Mr hollow brick own vineyard, and this
opinion, even a "Splendid set greenhouse had to be."

Hopfgarten stood one evening in after an afternoon spent terrible despair later in the pharmacy
and Cincinnati already decided with his magnificently-built lower city, and exit of the Canal
district in Holzbaraken Mismuth when the Provisor, a portly looking man, with fat double chin
and small lively eyes, put on his hat, the another young man at the pharmacy called out that
he had gone out with the "strange man" and then much to his surprise, without cause by the
arm and took out into the Road led.

"If your stomach is not ruined by the damn Grüneberger outbreak," he said this, "And you can sit
still for half an hour without falling asleep, as the" notables " usually do, so I think of to
guide you to a good glass of beer, where we also lively Society found. Mixed Publicum though,
but nice guys, and Cincinnati Beer with Limburger cheese. "

"Oh You're joking," cried Hopfgarten quickly, "Limburger? genuine Limburger? Lord, this is
a weak side of me. "

"You will smell it as soon as we come into the house," said Bohlen, who temporarily. In general
but rather taciturn nature, he was the go further to no great conversation
one, but answered all questions as addressed to it monosyllabic as
possible.

Sycamorestreet up and in one of the queer streets that run parallel with the flow, inflection,
They finally reached a house that is not "the terrible" German Coffe-house as bear almost all liquor
bars the title was provided, but where a white and blue Shield - a piece of nostalgia Bavarian
brewer - the thirsty wanderer with laconic But the heart speaking words announced that this
is a good beer will mortised. It was not a boast with the Bavarian words yet, no Coquettiren with the
addition of "American" - It was only "good beer" and a small wooden
tablets hung including what was apparently with the finger dipped
in boot-written the words:

Limburger cheese!

    Swiss cheese! Radishes!

The
    space needed no
    further recommendation and Hopfgarten entered with a certain kind
of home-comfort the little low, even by many guests crowded room where
they hardly recognized his companion, as they also made room at a
table and they were kindly invited to settle there.

"Gentlemen," began as Bohle introduce his guest, "I bring you here a victim of etiquette, an
unhappy man, the hollow brick with Cincinnati-poisoning outbreak
and the Dr. Held also driven out of the skin has a long while.

The Lord here is only a short time from Germany came over to say, from Cincinnati to Hopfgarten
and would the moral conviction have left it the most boring place among disgusting the sun
is, and the Germans is not even earned their tickets. I have it rescued, taken by the arm and
I'm here with him swam ashore - ask my Men, imagine now before hand, so our new friend knows
what he is, and what a decent society, he actually is. - You Lochhausen to catch You once,
but hello here bring fire, give us a beer, damn it, we should because languish at the source.
Two quarts of beer and half a Limburger cheese! So Lochhausen. "

"My name is Loch home," said the young man who was sitting right next to Lord of Hopfgarten,
a young blond-haired boy with blue eyes, yet lively and loyal, "and am newspaper carrier the
People's Journal, as well as the Christian apologists Exzeitungsträger,
but I hope at least the promise of the authorities, which I desperately
needed by my family I recommended to get a permanent job as a street
sweeper for Sycamore and Wallnutstreet.

"

Hopfgarten looked at his leader from the side, because the suspect got into him involuntarily on
that one would perhaps amuse themselves at his expense, and consider him to be 'green' enough
to believe what you just untie him.

Bohle, the suspect but something similar might liked said politely:

"Fear not, dear sir, that you one of the people here tell a lie, they All would fall upon him,
the whole story you should also really only a proof To deliver as
we have thrown together the fate here, and what we are doing.

The day would God knows where they crawl about everywhere we found, in the evening we find ourselves
but usually here by myself together, not of free will by the way, but by the necessity driven to
each other, a guide in ourselves to the practical lives outside. Now you come Höfner. "

"My name you have just heard," said the So Called, friendly with a slight Bow to the stranger,
"for I am the son of former Justice Minister from Höfner - For two years in America and in the
first six months in a coal mine in Pennsylvania been employed.

The work was too hard, so I went as a cook on a steamboat, Baker was later in Dayton and now turn
my cigars, in which business I flatter myself have acquired considerable skill to. "

"I Sorgfeld hot," said the third, "a former officer in Brunswick services came to America three
years ago, Farmer was, that was a half year as a plowman, was armed with an American lawyer in
the neighborhood, and fled in a row a duel to Ohio, where I picture
frame in the mirror factory Hoppe & brothers gold plated.

"

The fourth was a bit vague, just not too neat, in a gray summer skirt buttoned figure with a
thick puffy face, but the humor and good-natured lay, wore glasses askew on his nose that he
has a glass back and under the other looked away, and had a habit
with long, thin fingers through his damp hair to drive.

"I Müller hot," he said, while still hinlächelnd right, "and I am editor of the People's Messenger
- Ultra-democratic and destroying angel chopping block of the Christian apologists such as
"friend of truth"

[14] - Principal of the young blond-haired people, so when I see something more on the fingers must,
as I do not understand how he with the low sales of my blade as much beer drinking can unite - have previously
studied law in Germany and for a time here right twisted Then, as the did not want to go, and
started the Eisenbahnspeculation where I am wanted to take part in something, two months at
the St. Louis train with shovel and dug I then, as the work of my constitution did not please come
here to Cincinnati, I pulled out some time for a local furrier, my neighbor here, skins, and
I afterwards, a "urgent necessity to help," the "People's Messenger established" in which I now my
newspaper carrier and translator ruin. "

"I am a furrier Helfich," said a small man with a great huckster on the left Shoulder, which he
not much more than just enough on the table up.

"Have here in America a cargo of furs purchased, to Germany to create the same over, suffered
just before the Port shipwreck got, simply because the Assecuranzcompagnie bankrupt, made only five
per cent, something about my deposit refunded, and began here, I do not return such a nature
liked, a small business from scratch, had also been Clavierunterricht and drawing classes, and I'll
join next spring of a company, a trip to the Fur Company to make in the Rocky Mountains. "

"I'm Doctor Eberhard, said the next sitting him," my story is soon told; come over two years ago as a
ship's doctor, I have the few patients who given me luck or chance,
made himself dead - at least my friends say so, "he said as the others
laughed," and would have raised an Mordscandal, would I said something
else.

Now I have built a Cigarrenladen, when my friend Hofner is a staff member there. "

"I have studied theology," the last was at the table, sitting next to pile, the order on, "and
hot fir. Believed my job here in America, after all that I used to it belongs to continuing
very comfortable, but found after year period that I was in it wrong. From a town in Pennsylvania
engaged, to preach once a week and all the to hold celebrations,
for which I got $ 30 a month, I was the Orthodox do not soon Orthodox,
the Liberals not liberal enough.

In it combined both parties, not that I am good for them and I went to Ohio, where I was in
Columbus for a time the German Community preached. Machinations, the others by a "pastor" were
made there, let me there voluntarily give up my position and I pulled the employment of a quieter
Constables - Quasi Nightwatchman - in front of Dayton, where I got the same salary as a preacher. The
Night air, but said not to my constitution - I was then in Covington, on the Over Ohio, school
teacher annoyed me since almost the death of his neck and then made two trips as a cook on
a steam boat, until I finally put to rest here as a pill maker have, and now pretty lucrative business,
especially to the west of the Union with a blood-cleaning so-called fir's pills do. "

"Said So," Bohle, "You now have the kindness and introducir you as well."

"Dear God, that is soon laughed Hopfgarten" and I come, these manifolds over here exceedingly
small before. My name of Hopfgarten, and travel through the United States of North America to learn
about the country itself, and a just idea of ​​it to get - or I'm still more have been nothing but -. Passenger
"

"Most worthy of honor," cried Müller, laughing, "if you really have nothing further; Most foreigners are
usually the first time, "even" chicken and pluck. "

Hopfgarten laughed and said that he would probably still ahead.

From now on, the conversation generally, by the way, that they had all shown themselves personally
and presented was a cheerful spirit came unceremoniously into the
whole, the stranger was no longer foreign to them, and felt for the
first time since he had entered the Americas, probably in a really
strange Environment.

The company consisted only of educated people who have something in the world tried the other
way and see their forces had, there was a very decent, but completely casual tone, and in spite
of their different occupations, which all may return to the next few months, more anything else
give them more congenial or more profitable to take, you could see that they respected each other
and were happy.

"And you will like it in America?" Had Hopfgarten in the course of the conversation to some extent
the question to the whole society; "You feel comfortable and happy here?"

"I want to tell you something, my dear sir of Hopfgarten," and he took this issue on the fir
- "The answer is not simply yes or no can be given.

Of fallen or not can please even be no question of any staff to create a Maas, because that
depends also in great part not only to the views of the individual but also after, what he
left behind in the old home. The father is still our country in all the limbs, and is in it,
so long as we are a drop of human blood running in us, and not those pathetic worthless morons
- I might almost say, villains have become like that mob, which, without any past without a sense of
Love or gratitude to ashamed of being German. Actually, the only way, is a mistake of them,
they give the feeling of shame, which is quite right in them, only one false Names, they should
be ashamed at all that they are in the world, and reducible to the the fatherland. But to
fall back to our topic - the gall me is always on when I come to speak to the mob - I mean with
the pleasure that it is particularly dependent upon what we have left in the old country. Was that
much love and kindness, To many then, of course it will be hard here in very different and
strange, yes cold relations - Because each provides only for himself and God for us all - to
find your way, or to feel good. Was that not the case, we went away with a light heart, it is
certainly something else, and we will be able to establish ourselves here easier. There are then
they had not too many old heart fibers, the pulling out of the soil is to and the plant will continue
and thrive better - though I do not even know if I People will envy "- he added more seriously.
"In general, it is ubi bene ibi patria with the own thing, it sounds pretty good in the song,
and sings quite bearable, but still is not it - to the glory of the human race is not it,
and melancholy hours, almost every citizen has the time, and usually at the local German set on striking
at Christmas time, I sing the story sometimes wrong. "

"So the nostalgia but also exists in America," said Hopfgarten.

"Moral hangover they call it here," Mueller said, "use and beer and cognac against it. "

"At times, there exists's" continued fir, "but because America is
not the cause but the Strangers at all, and so strange to me here
has gone so often and so miserably poor, and I were the last of the
complained about the country.

There is a large, glorious kingdom Diess free America, capable of noble men founded, which
laid a foundation stone for eternity.

Subsequent generations have built it more assiduously, and though here and there even a Miston,
come into the many architects, though here and there a wild Embellishments or knobs, the sovereignty
of the whole mass interrupts and interferes with other bodies still raw and not be cut down
and wait for the workers, the harmony of the whole was not able to disrupt the growing and increasing
and spreading to North and South and West, an asylum to the oppressed, the needy, a further
port for the whole world. "

"Yes," said Hopfgarten, "that does not sound so bad, but the old story of the romantic Page
totally up to me was because the practical heard. "

"That I can perhaps serve," said Muller, his glass full and bestowing austr inkend, Maas and the empty
plate to the inn "new stuff" back-reaching.

"Fir has the weak Page that he sometimes makes verses, and even here it is rumored that he had in Pennsylvania
once a "kept rhyming" sermon - that could not tolerate the people and he had continued. - "

"You only rides always around us laughed fir -" unless you had the clergy -

"And no spoon, so we had to drink our soup, I suppose that is quite
in order," Mueller said dryly, "but that come here do not consider,
but our America, which we now exist once, and maybe if enough people
have less cause favorable to think of it, so I were there, I just
wanted to be unjust and the whole story only judge for myself.

 

Reluctantly Mr. Hamann saw there, rejected a further disruption of the farmers with indignation, when
he looked into the red, half-mocking, half bold face one of his Irish Boarders, very disrespectful
of him nodding confidentially, the door had closed behind him, and then click Mr. Hamann was
received.

"Well, so what, Patrick? - What you have to look up here, "cried the landlord, with the? Always close
to the half-drunken fellows just do not quite happy, grumpy, contrary,
- "why You, the bartender has left up here?

"

"Could prevent's just not my heart," Patrick said with a laugh, "because
as he told me in wanted to connect the way I put it gently - I have
the cute little fellow is not a hurt done that - under the sideboard.

"

"What do you cried because of me as" Mr. Hamann dismay of - 'what do you expect that your forcibly
break up here to me, and mistreated my people. "

"Peace in Jäsus my heart," but it quieted the rowdy Irishman, "Nothing honey, like a little
account between us two, each of which believes that the other in
his Fault.

"

"I'm in your debt Patrick cried but Mr. Hamann quickly from surprise
-" well, therefore, because you have eaten almost three weeks with
me and drink?

"

"At the bar is in every sip cents and half cents paid," protested
the Irishman.

"But the food, who reported that?"

"I told you not taken the moat around the yard?"

"The ditch," said Mr. Hamann contemptuously, "Do you have three full days, that is, the hours
off that you join us in giving room sat the little ditch - "

"Over lunch, honey."

"Well yes, we do not investigate - struggled for three full days with the small ditch, which
a good worker would quit in a day. But I'm also willing yourself
to pay for that.

"

"Well, honey, we're all right," laughed the Irishman, "your wooden head of barman I would publish
my bundle of themselves and have spared an inconvenience. "

"If you herauszahlst the rest."

"What rest -"

"The me is still good -"

"Damn the cent that you get there," laughed the Irishman - "three days of work pr. Day two Dollars,
six dollars. "

"Three days and two dollars a day? - You're crazy. "

"Never mind, [10] will still be enough for understanding my own interest to perceive," joked the
Irishman - "makes that is six dollars, two a half a week for three
dollars, snowboarding, remain dollar and a half left, I counted the
fish head bartender at the bottom of the sideboard have, and take
the Töffels would not.

Of course, I plugged it back in, and now he can see how he gets for the second time Patrick's
pocket. "

"You can not get your stuff rather pay your bill until you have," mingled at which point Mr
Messerschmidt's conversation, but also wanted to do the same Nothing
to have said, for the Irishman, heated by the dispute below and a
few glasses of whiskey, now went so against him and threatened him
at the slightest syllable, which he, by the Thing in the world did
not concern, back into drafts, with such unmeasured number of blows
that the cowardly fellow wanted to slowly draw back to the door.

But thereto he was prevented by the attentive Irishman who was not afraid without reason, the
agent would then maybe make noise down and fetch a constable, the
two men but it explained that giving them everything that stands in
the room beat to pieces and their own two miserable Cadaver still
wants to connect down the stairs in front of him when he would not
immediately be delivered bundles of laundry.

Hamann and Messerschmidt, although the latter was firm, stocky build, dare not to drive the
boys to the annoyance and Hamann said very quickly and politely

"But you make it not only such a noise, sir Patrick - if your work believe are so much worth,
I have not the least, however - let only the bottom Give her bundle.

"

"Of course," said Patrick, who overlooked his advantage quickly, laughing, "Everything okay
Mr. Hamann - goes smoothly, then your only receipt for the fare paid "

Hamann would still refuse to give something in writing, however, he saw that he soon the boys would
not otherwise go, and he quickly wrote a few lines for the barkeeper.

"Thank you, sir," said the Irishman, the writing by letter irend and
then into the pocket oppressive - 'wing is now Ireland's but to me
- you do not want to go down and a drink with me?

"

"You have but now all you want?" Said Mr. Hamann, now finally impatient becoming.

"Haha, no offense," cried the Irishman, "if a gentleman wants to extract the other Irishmen, this
is a courtesy and should be considered as such, but never mind - if You do not want so much better,
and now good bye Gentlemen. "And his hands in his pocket pushing, while one of his Irish Jigs
whistled, Patrick left, with a full basic very pleased with its success, the room, and a quarter
hour later, with his Bundle under his arm and the house where he was almost three weeks by a board
and lodging ertrotzt few days had light work.

"You should call a constable and arrest the boys leave," said Mr. Messerschmidt annoying, as
the Irishman had left the room.

"That to me demolish the house or the villains after the state Schenk," growled Mr. Hamann "No
running of the Lump like, I may drop once again in a different way in the hands But a warning
to me's for the future, do not take Ireland back to my house - It's drunken, rowdy, fraudulent people,
because I praise the Germans, who take Common sense and have respect
from the police.

But dear God, I feel the anger properly in the limbs hit, and you
would do me a favor, Mr. Messerschmidt, if Me by one of the people
down a glass of wine sent up.

"

"With pleasure," said Mr. Messerschmidt, Taking up his hat and in the process the room to leave
- "Mr. Hamann apropos - the shares you bought last year, 're fabulous
risen in recent weeks - you need money it deserves a rapturous have.

"

"If I could have kept," said the morose landlord, "you think I deserve capitals to lie down here?
- God's the pity, my fellow Germans, with the losses I have only to expenses for food and beverages,
make me, if I any longer the business would continue, a beggar, and
am more than ever inclined to retire me very and return it to my son,
to escape the eternal anger and scandal.

If the foolish Journeymen to speak only a word of sense - please the wine, Mr Messerschmidt
".

"Good morning, Mr Hamann."

"Good morning Mr. Messerschmidt" - and the old man went with hands
crossed on his back and hard and angry frown returned to his room
and down until the Bartender, a small salver in hand, where a carafe
of red wine and a Water glass was in, and this was put on the table.

Hamann looked at him, nodded to him to that it was good, and continued his march in the room,
while Jimmy, however, at its Body stopped, and - after a tiresome habit, one of his fingers after
another abknackte that it sounded as if he would break the limbs of the body.

"Now what's the matter yet," said Mr. Hamann, sullen, stopping in front of him - "what you want?"

"Damn
fine girl down, Suer," said Jimmy, his eyebrows went up, and stretched,
zurückpressend shoulders, his head so far forward as he could only
possibly.

"Damn fine girl?" Said Mr. Hamann surprised, "what the hell is that schiert me? - Are you drunk?
"

Jimmy maintained his position, but moved his mouth, as in friendly
recognition of the gracious Joke, from one ear to the other, no way
to reciprocate even a syllable more.

"Well the weather again, what do you want from me? stand there and
pull the foot wide, as if you had swallowed a sloe; believe that I
have time for your silliness to follow?

"

How to put a single one jerk Tabacksbeutel together and in numerous folds can, so the face of the
man's just been so friendly toward the center jumped to the a tip a pout, of which the eyebrows,
if possible, more remote, and perhaps half a minute to change in this position, he said quietly:

"Someone
sets anything in any newspaper, if anyone of anything afterwards
nothing want to know?

"

Mr. Hamann was even harder to reciprocate when he suddenly remembered
that he, however, an advertisement had had drafted into the German
Journal, after which he was a young German girl investigated the waiting
at table, pouring the coffee and tea, and monitoring his dishes and
his laundry to take over.

Jimmy, however, when he realized that his principal now what he knew was, again began to revidiren
his finger joints and überzuknacken, as if he wished to be convinced
of the usefulness of it.

"They bring a cut to despair, with your damn faces and fingers break, "Mr Harman said but impatient
-"? you can not say right out, and straight '"

"Damn fine girl down, Süre," Jimmy began again, just like in the beginning!
his speech, convince the Principal that he might just do nothing else
to say so.

"Will again be such a bully in wooden shoes, as has been reported
a dozen," growled the old man.

"Venus," said Jimmy, and threatened to really twist his fingers.

»Ass - I had almost said," hissed Mr. Hamann through between the teeth and then put louder added
- "and why not send me them up"?

Jimmy was an answer for unnecessary and disappeared very quickly through the still open Door,
a few minutes later come back with the registered person, which he
did, since in this Moment below was called after him, but had to leave
the top with his master.

But, already in the door, he turned once more to the young, dark in its simple Costume really
gorgeous girl to her staring perhaps half a minute bull in the eyes, and was then down the stairs
in a few sentences.

Before Mr. Hamann, however, that in the excitement of the moment, perhaps the future of their
should decide fate somewhat bleached cheeks, stood Loßenwerder Hedwig and said with a little trembling,
but soon laid expectant voice

"You, sir, a housekeeper for your home being searched, and I have come I offer you for it.
"

"Hm," said Mr. Hamann tight young girls before stopping, and so firmly
and carefully from head to foot, considering that the poor child's
blood in the forehead and temple, rose and it embarrassed looked down
to the ground - "Hm - not bad, but - you are too young my Child - "

I have similarly been in service for three years, "she said softly.

"Three years? and how old are you now? "

"I'm going next month, sixteen."

Hamann shook his head and sat the foreigners' and then viewing from the side, his walk in the
room out again, while Hedwig are, however, silent and motionless
continued to expect a decisive response from the man.

The last few weeks had caused a great change in Hedwig whole exterior,
and the timid shy, almost childlike girl she had still been on board
for serious independent, self-acting Virgin matured in the short term.

Difficult times had it been, however, which causes the severe, bitter
hours that are themselves so unhappy Clara trust her all that oppressed
his own heart, from the first suspicion of theft on, until the moment
where she met Mark and soul in the certainty that one's husband the
criminal is, and far worse and more terrible than a mere cowardly
thief, only the faithful servant of her father innocent, no, even
her own happiness and life cold and was treacherously murdered.

The pain for the brother had it, if not vanished from her breast,
but other, powerful feelings they never knew before blunted, and almost
superseded - by a Feelings of bitterness toward the people cold and
a poor unfortunate indifferent spoil left without much to worry about
his guilt or innocence, and the murdered man hardly a lonely place
despised by the churchyard wall indulged, by a feeling of Hatred for
the murderer himself, free and single, in happiness and wealth - the
spoils of his Crime - under the sun changed.

Only to Clara she clung with all the love and sacrifice, that her warm, soft heart was able
only in the suffering she saw Clara's sister - not more the mistress - the one with her, was
even more hit and almost beaten, and was equal to a shadow, a dark
idea that she could not express, to shape, on her mind, that the deceased
in greater pain and grief passed away, also from be misunderstood her.

"And you believe that you could preside over the matter" - Hamann said at last, again before you want
to change and you looking sharp and inquiring into the eye. -

"I believe it," said Hedwig, the eyes meet established.

"Do you have references?"

Yes -. Here, "

The landlord left to the papers and returned them to her.

"Yes,
all this sounds quite beautiful," he said, "but far from here, and
any writer Thor or the baker can have just so well written, but "-
he added quickly when he saw that the cheeks of the young girl at
the half suspected deep-dyed, and their higher figure rose out - "but
it can and will also probably be all right, just go out we can not
and must examine themselves and see. If the content? "

"I will take
one week to test my service," said Hedwig, "if you is enough that."

"That
would be good," said Mr. Hamann, quietly nodding his head - "and how
much reward you ask?"

"None."

"I do not mean for the sample week,
but everywhere."

'No,' said the maiden set and decided.

? 'No reward'
cried Mr. Hamann, surprised at her looking up - "and whatever else
for this? because Nothing to do but I can think of no good work that
you want? "

"No," said Hedwig in a lower voice than before - "I might
ask for more, than you are inclined to grant me, but could also only
on the condition the place I would certainly fill to your satisfaction
suppose. "

"What's that?"

"I have a sick sister in the city," said
Hedwig had - "the little thing we brought is soon consumed, and therefore
I'm looking for a service to get both of us until my sister has regained
her strength. All I ask for my work so far is that they live in my
room with me, do share my bed with me, and what little food gets the
body tolerates it. "

"A patient taking into the house?" Mr. Harman
said, shaking his head, "no lady, that's a misliche thing, of which
only one has trouble and cost, and what I can not engage me. "

She
is not sick, "said Hedwig quickly," only weak and exhausted by heavy
but survived suffering. Just rest it needs no more care, nor do I
want? that they eat with the host board, the little she needs would
I bring her myself. "

"What's your name?" Asked Mr. Hamann. Most did Diess to generous offer, although almost all, as well as Wolf and
George, her ready money contributed, and saved, had only asked Wolf its passage as a fire man to
be allowed to work off, with his thunder followed. The captain certainly laughed about the wayward
boys, but let them be, and how George Wolf firemen were on the Mississippi Belle.

The woman brought George, shortly before the departure of the boat, in a German boarding-house,
and asked the people there to take care of her until she had recovered, he himself would be
by Way back to audition again, and give you the cost at which he
already had a few dollars there, bear.

The woman spoke not a word here - they thanked him not, no she looked
up, and sat still and motionless as she had been sitting by the fire
in the corner as he left the house.

Seventh chapter

The Germans in Cincinnati.

Lord of Hopfgarten, we have left on his trip to Cincinnati, had, however, in the "Queen of the West"
as genuine or Porkopolis - as the vast Ground pork due to be slaughtered annually and sent out
a joke in the country ie, stayed a few weeks to get to the hustle and bustle of the inner cities
America to make known.

The location of Cincinnati, which forms the central point of all German settlements located
there, is charming, and the beautiful Ohio (used by the Indians O-hy-o - called the beautiful
stream) bespühlt her foot and offers her an excellent landing, where the largest Mississippi steamboat
their freighters to load and unload, while friendly, now often with vines planted hills surround
the town in the back. It was a matter of him as if almost third of
the inhabitants were German, and the individual districts only seemed
particularly Country people lived, even on the excellent market ordered
one heard little else than Speak German, and it amused him, particularly
while the merger of the costumes, the transition the German manufacturer,
which only after stubborn resistance in all respects by the German
Bauer takes off to watch the Americans. Putnam has urgent reason for wanting
to rejoin his regiment at once. 

Sidonie raise she wanted to - wanted to apologize and her husband - that would lie they feel happy
and content here in the desert, however, unfamiliar world, but - They no longer could. The annual
long endured, woe was passed, every note, every Word back, and pale, trembling, staring with tearless
eye she stood next to the kneeling and looked silently and motionless to the ground.

Dog barking outside the house and broke the embarrassing Pferdegestampfe expectant silence. Amalie
addressed quickly and how frightened air, and the Sidonie came to the door and opened it, the returning
husband welcomed.

! "Hello the house" this called from a distance of one's own home
- "Hey Dony hupih!

Come out and see what treasure I brought you! "

Blew up close to the door here, guided by the hand of the rider, the animal until it with the
hooves of the threshold, entered and open the door to the bright
spark was looking for in the Sidonie now appeared, and before the
close of the horse frightening anxiously asked the father to spare
the child are with the noise.

"Ah paperlapapp" laughed the man, "it is not the same 'things that hurt - see here what I brought
you, "and in his arms twisted, with the bound Prante working in vain, from the bonds that tied
him up get away, a young bear, and the dogs howled klefften and up
and grabbed the horse, they refused to take the loot and to tear.

"Quiet your beasts," laughed the hunter down from his horse, "Quiet down with you and Rascals - Dony,
take even a couple of fires out and throw it between the devil animals,
they prefer otherwise I really have the horse down. - Back with you
Watch and Bull - wait beast when I get down I turn to you for the
neck to the bite.

"

"The child has become worse than it was, Olnitzki," asked the woman - "Just go with at least the
terrible noise here from the door away by it, it dies so with fear and terror. "

"Ah bah - that's tough and does not die," said the dark man, "otherwise we would be the misery
long go, "and jumping down from his horse, he gave himself while the young Bear with a huge
force in the left arm was pressed, he led with a sharp liner piston well-aimed kicks against
the advancing compressive dogs howling drove them back to safety Distance. The prisoners then throwing
to the ground, he took down a chain to a the outer beams of the house, hung them with a strong
leather belt fastened around the neck of the animal, which he wore
to one of the nearest trees proposed to the other end of the chain
by one the lower branches, and the bands then quickly dissolves with
the knife, he jumped back and cried laughing.

"So my boy, now you defend your own skin! hupih! Your Dogs - hupih - now does what you can. "

And with the hunting call, the crowd threw in a great rage against the almost unfettered young
bear, and would have torn him, this would not be surprising and clever, using his partial freedom
to the tribe to which he held the chain tied up, climbed up, where
he was then on the lowest branch was established, and with ears laid
back and teeth bared to the greedy and wild dogs young jumping against
him struck down.

"Hahahaha, that's divine, it is precious," shouted and cheered while the poles, "my hupih Boys,
hupih! Watch good, almost high enough, but the black guy also divides this angry slap from -
hupih - hahahahaha! But weather again, "he broke off the process of "As he has since trimmed
myself - Dony Dony, as will you proficient with needle and thread
and have to help band-aid, all the various cracks in body and jacket
again to bring order - hello - who do we have here?

"

The surprised exclamation was the stranger that he did not recognize,
and in his hut was when he entered the threshold.

"How are you, ma'am? why do not you sit? here is still a chair - well, a new neighbor of us
"?

"You know me no more, Graf Olnitzki? Said," but Amalie on the English form of address in German
language - "is my face you in the ten years so completely alien to become?"

"All weather" cried the Pole, one step back surprised and kicking the door behind you burping,
to shed more light into the inner room without windows - "not the - is not Miss Amelia, dear
sister? but what the hell, sister in law, where come on let us have in here in the middle of
the woods? - Now, no matter that you tell me afterwards, and now
you are very welcome, and make yourself as comfortable as - now as
circumstances permit straight.

It is not just damn comfortable with us, can But it is enough to endure and for the forest.
Against the Indians, we are still living as the princes.

"

He had to meet her extended this right hand, but she drew back, laughing, for they was covered
with blood.

"For God's will as you look Olnitzki? Cried but at the same moment the woman - Torn "and bloody
all over, what did you do?"

"You could be here to Dony," laughed the pole, throwing his cap in the corner and the outstretched
arms, which gave testimony of the struggle passed, holding on his own. "How I already on the
way home, my old hunting accident cursing, I, and over there on the brushy slew think over, I
suddenly see an old female bear with a boy with him, to me the dogs previously had not felt
in the least or indicated a small fraction reed get up and continue searching. Yes well width,
and we afterwards with a Hupih and cheers as the wild hunt, and if it had the old man still held
out for a while, was the cub but soon no longer continue, and reared. If I had been 'shot
which had the time would it not occurred to me to make do with the veal, so I thought but the
thing would on the tree 'safe as the lean old man in the bush in it, tossed my horse jumped
down and would have ', it now can shoot comfortably, but so light hunting were a disgrace been, and the
rifle is so radically in the tree, hang the other way with my saddle rope klett're, I am beating
up on the scratching thing, pack it and want it at a Hinterprante just as it emits a murderous
cry with me down to draw level ground, when I break the bushes again and crashing hear, and God
punishing me, as I look around is the old red-hot with ears laid back and wide open mouth - but
damn it Rest as your beasts, one can not understand his own words before the devil breeding -
is the old woman as a devil let loose again rushed through the forest, and to me. The boy let
go and drive down to the trunk of my rifle had happened in a flash, but no sooner had I have
to tighten the tap and time to aim, as the snorting beast came on like ten thousand Devil. My
ball she met through the heart and throwing away the box I just kept still time to pull my knife
from its sheath when the furious, unwounded as to threw me, and I felt like my clothes and
skin in shreds from the body flown.

Fortunately As did the story not long, as the ball appeared and broke the old woman dead on
me together, but now the fun went with the boys start all over again, and I believe in God,
it is not a big place in my hand all over, where I do not have a
tear or bite of the Satan animals.

You'll have to patch up my hard Dony. "

The child began screaming again, the noise of the dogs left outside do not rest it, and the Man
threw himself, however, while the wife looked after the kids, exhausted and bloody as he , was
on the bed.

"Well young lady sister, wife or sister, I do not know how you have to say now as long as we have
heard nothing from each other, which we owe this happy Approximately Visit, or "- he drove him
to a surprising thought suddenly twitching of the camp on and looked sharp over the woman - "has surprised
me so friendly Sidonie want? "

"Sidonie knew so little of my arrival as you, dear Count," said Amelia, with the horror the suspected
hidden in the words felt, and their eyes opened a chasm.

? "Count laughed," but ironically at the poles - "Count, you must omit here, Miss of Seebald,
it looks like here in a count's house? - Because that is the rest of my Past, "he shouted as he
pushed back there on the wall hanging cotton women's clothes, and
an old rust overcrowded Cavalleriesäbel brought to light - "a magnificent
Symbol, "he added, with sneering bitterness," for the rags hang of
it, and Hide the last remnants of the count.

How do you like us, heh? - Pretty is not it? - Romantic enough, but a little too much. Yes,
he was dull brooding to, as he sank back on the bed and rested his head in his hand, "earlier
it was Anders - Better perhaps - perhaps not, and a free, happy life we ​​lead yet. But come,
come Dony see, only after the body of the damned bear has done me hurt and I think I lost much blood,
it makes me so weak and dizzy all at once. "

Sidonie came to the bed of her husband, with a trembling hand the bloody clothes resolve, and to
look after the wounds which he struck the bear in agony, while Amelia,
who already Cloth hat, and had passed, went to the child and his mother
from the cast-Potion give investigated.

Olnitzki it had been right, on the chest and shoulders, he wore almost innumerable fresh wounds,
but fortunately not deep or dangerous, but all in the flesh swept, and the association soon
faded any attack of weakness, loss of blood and excessive effort in keeping the young, quite
a few strong moments Bears contrived.

Sidonie then quickly prepared some food for the weary husband both, as for the Sister, sat
the coffee pot to the fire, and put coffee in the mill.

Previously it could Amalie certainly not considered possible that the sister, on the other
numerous Wink Servants were listening, alone, without a single help such a life, such work
was abandoned, and now no sound of surprise even more of pain crossed her lips. She saw what she
felt, even feared, that was done even more than they looked, and
only the fear filled her heart now, whether to help - as there is
help.

Voices were loud outside, the dogs, who had calmed down somewhat when
the young bear its secure place on the tree branch did not leave,
and the products stored under him Males looked down calmly suggested
again, and Jack Owen's voice called out immediately after Forest species,
the house, it's a draw by the residents to the door.

Olnitzki jumped himself to spare despite Sidonie Please be in his camp on, to see who was there,
and remained standing in the door in wonder as he, the mass of objects,
suitcases and Boxes packed on the mules to keep outside his apartment
looked.

"Hey you guys - good day - what you bring here," he cried out - "Weather again More Rose, are
you become an itinerant pedlar who moves around with his pack in
the country, tape and pins to sell? - Ah Jack, You lead a very common
and commissions? - Only in. with you, the coffee is ready to be the
same, and a hot cup of us do well.

"

"The deuce again Olnitzki, as you see look like?" Said Jack Owen, however, the horse was increased
and the venison on his shoulder came upon him - "who has he beaten
so you '

"The guy over there and his mother," laughed the pole, pointing
to the been reared young bear, "But what the hell with the Wild?"

"You've got visit," said the hunter, blushing slightly, "and I did
not know whether your If you had just fresh meat in the house, I wanted
your wife left here, I at the Gründorn level over about one hour before
shooting, lay over - I have a week a few run in front of the box.

"

"And the stuff out there?"

"Are the lady - your wife, sister, I think that yesterday from Little Rock Billy Jones dishes
come over. "

"Really? - This is the cause? just enter your people - is the stories, however, only over there
down, Rose More; you really can not even help, as has the damn bear me the arms to pieces like
that to me begin to become stiff and dull. "

The old Rose More, managed with the help of Bill Jones and Owens the
boxes and suitcases to the house, now stepped in with this, welcomed
the women, asked after the sick child that he carefully considered
the mother and anrieth different herbs to prepare a bath of it, and
was then Olnitzki tell his adventure with the bear, but would under
no condition to remain for dinner, he saw how cramped the space ohnedieß
been there, and refused also now accepting payment for the transportation
of things.

The mules did not belong to him, as he said, and he had to ask the owner first, what he did for the
half working for it requires - his own spatziergang understand it
is probably of saying that he did not expect.

Olnitzki persuaded the neighbors not to linger just very even, and a quarter hours later this trotted
back to the animals rested, however, our own home.

Sidonie, meanwhile, had her sister help for today, since she knew yet modest in ground house
and husbandry, rejected a smile, and coffee and fresh meat from the cut into the pan, so that soon
a pretty good, nutritious meal of venison and Maisbrod, Honey and coffee on the neatly set tables
steamed. Only with seats, with dishes such as and knives and forks, it looked shabby. Amalie was
the only remaining regular fork the appropriate diameter, Olnitzki took his neck vessels, with
a bone hook fork the flesh, he wanted to cut the to keep it, and Sidonie used a cut Piece of
pipe that carries all appearances, this service has long been, by turns, the husband Knife using
it. Even the coffee was the sister of one of the course handleless Cups from the old days, and
when the saucer also does not fit in, drank it nevertheless better
of it as from the metal cups, which were used by Olnitzki and his
wife.

But own eerie feeling took possession of the sister as the wide gold edge the broken crockery
bowl stand next to the tin saw, and then thought of the time where they themselves once given
the cup to the young hopeful blissful bride.

The conversation at dinner was very monosyllabic, and Sidonie himself could barely five minutes consecutive
stay in place, then took the sick child, they still benefit from
it; Olnitzki but Amalie teased here that they brought so much luggage
in the woods, where they so little needed, and then was curious myself
to see what the boxes contained, as his sister in law said that the
most of it for him and his wife, as determined for his dead child
been to learn the passing away not even them.

Some difficulty had for him when finished eating and put the baby to sleep been to open the boxes
with his wounded arms, but he finally succeeded, and Amalie now sought in unpacking the sister
- yes disperse themselves, because some had brought her and her husband to make you happy. But,
dear God, when Range of things it was not their home course, occurred to the loved ones far away
in the countryside to think in such circumstances as they now found them, and took odd the gorgeous
embroidery of cigar-ash and the lectern, letter case and paperback, the top hats and kid gloves, the
small charming luncheon of the finest painted porcelain, this contributed to his pitchers and cups
landscape scenes from Sidonie home, the ornate Lamp, the cute embroidered slippers, and all the
other infinite taste and elegant choice matters in the poor savage
hut, which stretched her gray Bretdach about them.

Sidonie sat still with folded hands beside it, and hardly dared to
touch the objects, while Olnitzki slowly one by one in the hand, took
a smile to and fro turned, and then the, for the purpose of the cleared
table hinstellte.

"Hahahaha," he at last broke out in a wild, unnatural humor, "like the boys, to look at our uncouth
neighbors if the wonders of "fixins" for the first Male see how they are amazed and break his
head to be Diess what and this and that as determined is - Did I almost forget it yourself
"- he was quiet, and scary it added, laughing. - "And how splendid fit the luncheon to the old
tin pot, and the Ice cream glove here to the fists, sister-in-law, I fear you have as much money
useless waste, and brought us only illustrations of the picture, as you are, despite all our accounts
to the contrary, our forests and hunters living here actually painted. There was now only a chandelier
- you remember yet, Sidonie how such a thing looks like? - Decorate
our lounge worthy.

"

"But you do not always want it to continue such a life, Olnitzki said?" Amalie fear and with excitement
almost choked voice - "if your strong body such Endure hardships easily, however, see how the
sister hingewelkt - you imagine the fun-loving young happy woman,
she took from inside her home with him in the world, and see now,
the poor wife.

"

"Poor wife?

Repeated" Olnitzki, darkly frowning, "the woman should follow the man in happiness and sorrow,
and where they take together, has, in my opinion, no part of complain. "

"But Sidonie -" wanted to reciprocate Amalie, but a frightened imploring eyes of the woman held
The word caught on her lips and Olnitzki, an embroidered with the colors of his country Cigar-ash
in his hand, sat brooding on it in a dull time in staring. - But
the evil spirit departed from him, deep sigh, he passed his hand the
folds of the forehead and the bag on the table, legend to the other
things he said with a friendly expression in the features:

"No offense,
sister, burn the fucking cracks me put the bear today, me, tomorrow
is the past - thank you for all that you brought us so far over; it
was meant as good and will make lots of joy Sidonie, but she is probably
still a little old in the stories.

Prepare the sister then their camp on my bed, Dony, I enclose the fireplace - no circumstances
sister, "he added, laughing, as he saw that they wanted to protest against it, you'll come away to
nothing better, because it is hard enough, and I do not really know if I on my old bearskin
here close to the fire not finished yet are softer and warmer will like you over there. But
now, good night, catch me on the head so again to cheat, and I have tomorrow morning out, the
bear for to bring home that still out there, only just broken, lies in the forest. So my child
- Thut - that's good enough, "he said to the woman, who, however, the hair pulled from the
Camin and had put a pillow with a woolen blanket on it - "that's good enough now let me sleep,
and tomorrow morning, we will in-law very much from home - from Germany tell. "

Third chapter

Old Mr. Hamann.

The food and Logirhaus or "Bordinghaus" after the American-German
expression in New Orleans, Schenk and his guest room we have ever
visited, was one of those old French Building, which was of the first
settlers of the town still built in a time when the place itself,
where it was, had little value, and was, therefore, for its low Roofing,
a disproportionately large area space one.

Also built on the house looked weathered and dilapidated enough out
with the old hollow bricks on the roof and, their lime in many places
stripped walls, half the wooden gallery or verandah in front of the
first Floor, and decided together buckled in the gable.

The owner, however, an already some twenty years in the country established German name Hamann wanted
the old nest, despite very good bids, the sale was made to him on this, and claimed each time if
again urged, so long as he lived, also believe it, it just feeding him, and let for so many
years now been a home of incoming German that miss this would if they came to America, and
he could not get over the heart.

It was about three weeks after the landing of the Haidschnucke in New Orleans, honest as the Christian
Hamann in his own living room sat up, and was busily employed a fairly sizable Case with surgical
instruments that stood before him in the room to pack and to instruments lying around the table
itself, where they had something here and there suffered from rust, to clean and restore.

At an elevated desk, next to the next window, stood a young, perhaps twenty-four Man, the son
of the old Hamann, in addition to a white jacket and trousers, straw
hat, the breiträndigen on the stool, and noted the various articles
of his father, as he in the case presented dictated.

"So - said the old man, who was with the packing quite finished, and just been a case with different
knives and lancets took from the table and opened it - "here is the set with - Damn there are
a lot of stories in it - with a quantity of knives and Iron and files
- I know how these things are all called - wait once we can include
at least - five, eight, eleven, fifteen, and here, four are nineteen,
and here the three little things are twenty-two pieces.

The leather exterior provides also still quite like new - well, you'll see what you get for it. "

"Father, one pocket is almost worth as much as you was the man in the whole guilty," said the
son.

"What you understand that?" Muttered the old man but with a sullen glance at the slim young fellow,
whose good-natured, open draws deep red colored at that moment - "You worry about you because
your writing, and Do not meddle in matters that are not connected angehn, and of which you
have no idea. "

The man was with me and gave me sued his distress, "said Franz, the
son.

?

»North complained," but went on the old man indignantly, "who has yet to sue over distress,
only He is with me here five weeks in the house and eats and drinks
without paying a penny, after I give him another travel allowance
and a rifle that cost me himself seventy-five U.S. dollars has, and
send him into the interior, and now I will still give out his things
again and have nothing heh? - And is the time when he had to pick
it not been expire in eight days?

Had he paid me ahead of time what he was owed me, so could he's begging, besides me here long
enough in the way stood quietly take away again, I would have been the last which would have prevented
it - I have so many Germans continued help, would I not have the lurch, but now the season is
over - The whole thing is settled ohnedieß writing, and if he believes
the law should he sue me, not Chris Harman is the man to a righteous
cause out of the way goes.

"

The son sighed deeply, and began again, with nothing further to say against the father, his
work until he broke the old gentleman Hamann with a new question.
 

Charley Fischer ran back without delay with this "good news" on board, where Mademoiselle Seebald
just in considerable uncertainty was whether they use the card of Mr. Charley Fischer, or their
baggage should be a different guest house can provide, the huge company they already across the
street saw light. Pleasing appearance of the little man decided this in his favor, the suitcases
and boxes were loaded, and the young lady was soon thereafter in a small bare uncomfortable,
not neat room on Pinestreet, in which it was soon visited by the friendly hostess and support
themselves her toilet to supper, which consisted of a very good meal with tea compakt to prepare.

Charley
Fischer had used now only too glad of this opportunity, from its
all just a guest Possible to get over their living conditions, particularly
the purpose of their trip out because when a young lady made such
a journey alone, certainly had something to mean very bizarre.

Now, he said Mademoiselle Seebald but simply that they only came to Arkansas, her, sister
married to Count Olnitzki to visit, but he does not believe her, of course, and then tried something
even more mysterious at the visit. The willing and generous while he with his own life story
was, the more it annoyed him, of course, if others do not retaliate in kind wanted. Mademoiselle
Seebald was tired from the trip, both when they were also attacked from the excitement of recent
days, awaiting the hoped-for reunion contrary, felt and looked therefore time their camp. Charley Fischer
promised to raise the way, leave them where they should find the breakfast ready and still early
enough to the first ferry to come. The Fuhrman had promised this in his house, where he also
has his habitual morning draft took to drive up, and neglect was not therefore possible.

The morning came, things were done before the house, especially the two small boxes back again,
and again recommended caution because they contain fragile things, Miss of Seebald had their
travel toilet as the breakfast ended, its not over-bill paid for a glass of brandy and sugar, their
their friendly host to the most persistent against the raw morning
air intrude sought, refused again and again, the car came, the Matters
have been charged, and Charley Fischer did not take it to Mademoiselle
Seebald to reach out his arm and they accompany the ferry down.

However, had the two figures for our German terms, perhaps a little looked odd together, and Mademoiselle
de Seebald himself felt so uncomfortable as possible in the company, they could not refuse good.
Namely, the lady was quite modern, and even dressed fashionably, with a bright gown of raw
silk, and fine straw hat and a dark red silk sash round, while Charley, however in a somewhat
short shone and not overly clean linen skirt, under which a few also
something short striped woolen trousers peeping.

He wore this shoe and woolen socks or yellow Rather socks that were not mentioned as he explained,
he did however do what he wanted, and the old straw hat covered his hair still as on the ship,
only a pure yellow and red striped shirt he had that morning, dressed, and a juice-blue silk
Cloth tied about. In America is something like this but not on, we can even see, even in the largest
cities, the women very often on the arm of a gentleman who in a short white linen Jacket goes
rushing in velvet and silk incidentally, the dress is not there the man, but the man's dress.

Nothing was less and despite the early hour of Miss Seebald convinced that the eyes of all the
residents of Little Rock, at the windows they passed, in ridicule and curiosity were fixed
upon her, and thanked her God, as the ferry or Ferry boat finally reached where Mr. Charley Fischer
on the earnestly of their adopted, as they also asked him your wife's sister, though an unknown
way, kindly recommended.

The small ferry was steaming over the rather wide stream, the more the light morning mist in thin, divided
here and there by a gleaming ray of sunshine clouds lay, and also the opposite side edge covered.
Only a low number, hella coated, square Wooden houses were as visible, which are covered with
huge shields, and if that was possible would be defaced, the top of the steep bank of bank crowned,
and turn, from the high tops of majestic giant cotton wood trees were topped. This small City
here that the growing Little Rock owed their origin was almost one
and Schenk stands alone - so-called "groceries and provision stores,"
where, in addition to all possible life needs, which spirituous beverages
were the main constituent, but it looked new and ugly, like a box
of freshly packaged Nuremberg Spielwaaren in a number found on the
living rainforest it shook her head and sighing it recognized the
canker, which ate further and further into his side.

Mademoiselle Seebald, regarded by the curious people on board, while a single so elegantly dressed
strange lady not as often and soon saw between them, enveloped by the way, without associating
with any one, firm in her shawl - the morning air blew fresh and cool about the current - and
watched intently for the other shore across, which they quickly meet desired.

Ha, what was that? - Down at the beach - just below the high, steep, rugged sixteen-foot well Lehmbank
rising up and hidden far from the deep striking fog, which, as they approached the land divided,
or at least more transparent has been submitted, a Scene before the astonished gaze of the
young lady, as her most daring, romantic imagination would only have been able to conjure up.

"Indians,"
she exclaimed, almost involuntarily aloud, for the whole bank was
covered there, animated from a wild swarm of brown, half-naked figures,
the leather part, under low Tents, encamped just had to have part
of small fires.

Neighing horses and galloped at the waterside, children jumped and shouted in and along the water,
where they bathed and played, women cooked, or were carrying wood, the other down the top of the bank
bank dropped, and the men sat silent and indifferent partly from the fires, smoking her pipe,
or stood on the shore, to await the arrival of the steamer.

"Life here is Indian?" Asked Mademoiselle de Seebald surprised one of the standing next to her
People who leaned on the deck surrounding the bar grille, and also to the natives over looked.

"No,
Madame," said the man, without changing his position, "Thank God that we Red skins are going, we
would create nothing more than devil's eggs in the nests.

Get it all with one another the evil. "

"But what Thünen it here?"

"The da? - From hiking - the Seminoles are that Uncle Sam [6] after the territory sends there
with their friends, the Creeks and Cherokees, and the Chocktaws Kickapuhs and how they all mean
so well tolerated as they can just - or even better, each other the
necks cut off - that spared what they could do to the world of God.

"

"You do not love the Indians."

"I? - No, the sky is my witness - have also just no reason for it,
and less Lust - if I did something to destroy the whole race with
one stroke of the earth, I þæt's. "

The man was directed to from his position and walked slowly to the other side of the Decks, as
if he wanted to see not even the red men, so long as it's preventing could. He saw it in so
dark and bitterly that Miss Seebald was glad of, its be removed from
society uncanny soon.

The boat, however, did his usual landing place, a huge fortified there flat-roofed boat, gently
on the harness and horses out or brought on board were able to, and
the Indians, especially the children, half shy, half curious crowd
around the square, gathered there to see off the strange white men
and women.

The children were almost all the naked, but the adults wore a scarf around the hips, and usually
a leather or calico hunting shirt, his hair tied in a bunch of this, individuals with ornaments,
two in it with an eagle feather. Only the women stayed back, so here at their campfires, and
hardly looked around for the rapidly exhaust the steam boat end,
or the white people - they had seen enough of them, probably more
than they liked, and they were from home sold and delivered to a foreign
unknown country cold - as they could because looking forward to being
hated.

The men looked very quiet and dark, and where they One of the White spoke to, they turned from
them and walked sullenly their camp again.

There were noble, powerful figures among them, some with severe, barely healed wounds the wide brown
breast, and bravely fought this war in their country, every inch of ground the white invaders with
tomahawk and rifle a quarrel; yes more years would pale faces, they often sent home with broken
heads and in the camp itself, they reflect as many nights the battle cry and the bare chest bold and
todtesmuthig threw against the bayonets, led their troops against them in vain it they had
the treason can face as much as the cold steel. But their chief fell - the brave Osceola, treacherously
against the Americans from war and human rights captured, where he the word of the white man's
familiar, died miserably in prison - Other Chiefs were purchased, and the banner of the States
added a star to his bloody white.

"Well madam, if you want to climb now," interrupted because of the charioteer, the dishes are
was happy to board the flat boat and taken away on solid land, the Views of his traveling
companion - "the horses are rested and pull's can already and here's to go up but bad for such
tender feet. "

Mademoiselle Seebald would like to stay here any longer, the life and activities of the Indians
to see more and perhaps even engage in a conversation with them, broken Should at least speak
English but many of them. But that alone was not to, and then shone the charioteer, who still
had a long way to go, no big Desire to have to wait longer. She had therefore really do not decide
alone, to leave the place of her for the first time in her life a scene of genuine wild romance
offered, but also a most unromantic way, and, moreover, in the presence
of a mass of foreign People who probably had it a mockery of it, on
an ordinary rescue vehicle climb, and then in a rustling corn husks,
to which her entire suit even in the least suited to bury.

It cost her the decision, in fact, to overcome, but Despite their often exaggerated tendency to
fanaticism had Amalie of Seebald, as already proved by their whole journey, but a lot of character,
which, with its adventurous Situation, they soon moved to override everything else.

The Americans did, however, and indeed no nation can be more attentive to ladies than this, from
a chair out the nearest grocery, that they are more comfortable on the car could, laughing
and bashful while the lady took up her clothes, climbed on the chair and leaped from the broad
hand of the motorman supported on the wheel and from there into the car, a young boy was returned
to the chair used in the grocery, the Americans would smack of the whip, the horses started,
and next to reciprocate until the upper bank had reached drove the rather unwieldy dishes, strong
from the animals drawn comparatively rapidly ascended the steep path leading to the upper shore.
The Indians have achieved a piercing scream, the children cheered, the dogs were barking and
the car rattled, while the man himself in the driving jumped up and down beside the lady in the
corn sleeves set, the somewhat bumpy road extended along quickly.

The little nest of inns They paid back immediately, showed clearings along the way but still young
farms, they drove a long haul back and forth between Fenz, the recent
first reclaimed land surrounded - even these ceased at last, here
and there were still tight on the way to Fenzstangen precipitated
and cleaved tribes, there were young trees for firewood cut off, and
now pulled the, well wide hewn, but otherwise very wild and out alone
to the ax-made road through the dark dense jungle, they embraced in
all its magnificent majesty.

So cramped and uncomfortable by the way, Miss Seebald still on the first climb of the car, and
while they knew the many strange people around her, had felt so well, she was free now. Her
heart opened, and as the last Fenz behind you were gone, like those mighty huge trees, the
most powerful straight to their Height in these lowlands rise, their trunks as giant pillars
stretching up around them, and shook their beautiful tops and with them rustled and whispered,
as if the forest life had won, and when the wound braided and tangled vines in long festoons hang
over the road, and swing down from the highest branches of the trees looked and imagination while
these dark forest shadows, with all the wild and predatory animals of the wide Busy country tightly
as they did the right luck and happiness hard to believe, the tears
came into her eyes, and she would like aufjubeln loud in pleasure
and delight.

Their goal was now achieved what they sought and longed for years, the same forest already embraced
it, who created a home of her sister, a paradise, and only one heart missing her now, with
which they share their happiness, which they could all the acclamations, what their breast at
that moment filled and raised.

With the man at her side, sitting dry and indifferent to his place and only sometimes, if the
road a short distance straight away went the horses to drive more rapid course, was But of
course, not talking, too, was of English hardly powerful enough, just the to give words feelings
that drove it, and forced to pronounce. They took a while silently with each other through,
the way, however, the further they came into the country, poor and was swampy and required the full
attention of the motorman. The great, really beautiful forest of lowlands remained unchanged,
without care, but the Residents and owners of the same, the mosquitoes came forward as well,
and if they also were not very common and were held by the movement of driving already, let
they can be if the car occasionally for a moment stopped and the truck driver ascending had to
evacuate some broken-down one road out of the way, or the animals to a stopped Root hear about
out, and feel, while the delicate skin of the young lady slightly
the sharp bite of the small animals scharfsäftigen swelled.

This was the way her mind again turned in a little over the earthly and Miss Seebald of the
car began to guide their way, the length of it, the various settlements
or ask "plantations"

(as she called it, which he did not understand in the beginning).

The boy was a simple simple "child of the forest," as Miss von Seebald soon enough found he
did, in fact, not much more than what the area of ​​its forest and land Little Rock was. However,
he knew the route well, every stump and root, any "clearing" every "called improvement" as the very
first branches, it was able exactly specify how much each "neighbor" split the day "Fenzriegel"
could, how much Johnny Bligh deer in the last "season" killed, and how many coons [7] in her
last crop (harvest) in the corn field with the dogs had caught or shot. The horses and cattle
of the neighbors he knew personally knew every stain on them to provide any fire, also showed
her the place as they drove past it, where in the last year of a young panther Fill strangled
and eaten almost too would have, had he not fortunately (though it too late to save it from strangling) to
come, and then went specially in his conversation to the German immigrants of, of which, he
said, a "heap" in recent years must have come across, because at
the cash river he had seen two, and to Little Rock would be a whole
family came, the husband, wife and three or four children.

In Little Rock ever had a mass German who swarmed properly it - he knew only six or seven, and
Charley Fischer was the jolliest of all, and "a monstrous hand smart too!" - Extremely smart and clever
- and would have him the other day (three years) a very Western Reserve
rotten cheese suspended - which he does not take him very ill, but
seemed rather pleased to know that he manage to do that.

Only from the "Count Olnitzki he knew little or nothing to tell, his" old lady "[8] did not know he
had never seen her, and believed not that it much of the range (Actually pasture, but also
used by settlements) came out. Old as he Nitzky called him undaunted should, by the way a powerful
hand (very cleverly) to be with the rifle, and many deer and have already shot some bears. Now
he was far from "in The settlements come, "but he could still very well remember him, for
he was a big strong man and carried "the whole face full of hair."

But when the leader of their approach, no news could be about whose fate it was so dear, and it
made her so happy, after so long a separation again to see, so he was in so many different kind of practical
and infinitely good-natured. He broke her a Sassafrasbusch off, thus the now and then to ward
off mosquitoes coming to them, and held several times on particularly her a hat full of juicy,
sugar-sweet persimmon, the there were growing in mass, to seek and to bring, or to pick wild grapes
from some trees in heavy blue masses hanging down. The Muscadinebeeren, before their frequent
consumption of cold fever because he warned, had to taste it, and the long, almost disgusting
sweet Papaofrucht. How then further into the forest and the river from the first lying settlements
came off, he showed the foreigners here and there quickly spotted form a fleeting deer, which
stopped short when he heard the creaking of wheels, and the beautiful
Head with the odd curved antlers reflecting volatile in the bushes
across the Jungle set, or the ugly but ridiculous possum, the American
marsupials, the actually belonging to Australia, only some mistake
here, created by nature seems as timid on the road, ran rapidly down
or hanging vines emporklomm, a suspected Risk of escape.

Sometimes he even continued to her on the street itself bear, wolf- Panther tracks and to show
that here in their nocturnal excursions into the soft Floor-pressed, and that at all All in
his power, the young lady's long, somewhat monotonous forest path to shorten as much as possible.

So
they went all the way there, the road was hewn out wide, on a like for the other place, but showed
little track, and more hoofprints almost more the tracks wild animals. Now and then she passed
a large settlement, and at noon were she even claimed at one place, with three or four log cabins
the proud name of a city.

The people there, a single farmer with his brother, who kept a small shop, were but not proud
of this preference before the neighboring clearings, cultivated their land more themselves and
made new cultivation, not to build houses on it, but corn hineinzupflanzen.

There, a frugal midday meal was taken, since almost all the farmers in the western living forests,
at least all to a main or countystraße, to set up are strangers to lodge and dine. Wirth's and
inns where there are very few; ready money the people have very little in their mutual traffic
since then the Fremdebewirthen akin to a source of income to which they devote themselves prefer
the more than they have little more expenses in how a couple of beds with mattresses and blankets
produce.
 

"I wash myself again," said Mulberry, forgiven without a look, once again took the proffered Hand, shook
it far warmer than the other was his habit, and then remained, while Eltrich back to the boat
jumped down for a while on top of the levee, the hot burning down Sun no longer paying attention to keep
zuzusehn, as his traveling companion work. Eltrich was this was perhaps the only one of the
steerage passengers, with whom he never an unkind Had word that he never mocked or annoyed; One of the few,
which, as his wife, it looked at first glance that they used to in better conditions and greater
conveniences lived, while all but two are never, not even the biggest inconvenience defendant neither food
nor space. This had particularly their respect for this strange Hybrid of animal and human, the
Scheer grinder, extracted, and if this heart at all such a movement would have been able, he would
the young man, who, with his slender Body now with a pretty three hundred pound Porkfaß presented,
and dripping with End up the hill worked pity, and even offered him some, perhaps a help have, he could
have been convinced from the outset that they are not supposed Eltrich. Mulberry wanted something
like this but not even risk Irishman, too, and only after a while in the strongest possible
Shaking his head, he turned and hooked his support band again, and drove in his ordinary staggering
gait up the levees, the steamboat landing.

On free, prior to this land lying and a man walked with a woman.

The man wore a hunting satchel over his shoulder, a woman in a red cloth knotted bundle in hand,
but only while the head, her hair tangled and unmade, and only with a schwarzsammetnen Headband
tied together, the front was carrying a small spurious enamelled brooch. Earrings and Necklace were of
the same metal, but it fits like the resplendent in garish colors silk Cloth, which she wore
around her neck, bad bleach the cheeks, the hollow lying staring Eyes, and the people they met, and
not just too much to do with himself had to pay attention to anything else still standing,
still and watched the strange, almost eerie figure by the faltering transition strode next
to the man with the Hands fought it, and uttered some incoherent words.

"Be reasonable now, Jule," she whispered as the man of her arm at
the same time collectively that they uttered a low cry of pain, too
- "damn it again, all People who meet us staring at us, and keep you
in the end still crazy.

Let but the devil's arms quietly, what have you because it continues in a drive around in
the air? If you give me will not move properly again, I do not know really what I start with
you. to "

"On the go? - Yes - that's good, "said the woman quietly hinlachend right to" move - if only
we were first on the road - I long.

"

"Well then go and tidy, and does not amount you so stupid," growled the man, "look ' the boat
smokes already, do we have that we are coming down. "

"God," cried the woman who, stopping suddenly, and wild with your
left hand stroking the forehead, "we have - we have forgotten something
at home"

?

"Forgetting" the man said, asking to look at, "well what is going on again - the wallet? - No, I have
here, and the money is there - what have you forgotten? "

"The children," whispered the woman, and seized his arm violently, but the man threw they are
of wild, as he saw, however, that more and more people were aware of it, and stopped them nachschauten,
he stepped quickly ascended to the woman again, pulled her free left arm in his, and she continued
pulling entertaining as with iron handles and with it, he hissed
in her ear:

"Have you lost the Devil, senseless woman, auszuschreien
here in the open place that nonsense? - Or you want about the American
prison cells to make the acquaintance?

Come - Hold fast to me and not lose your bundle; fortunate that the people speak German . Understand
"

"Let's go back because where are they?"

The woman asked quickly, still at the one picture is clinging.

"I would it's right if you did," cried the man in the dark, barely restrained anger, "I'm tired of the
whining and Geklage - understand at all, as I held out so long and'll
give you my blessing for the journey.

"

"And I could go back?" Cried the woman moved quickly and violently looking up to him.

'Fuel' no nonsense, "growled the man," You would end's able to straighten
them to run in the throat, and to make the joy that they be connected
in a half-life time's Spin House could put. - Here is our boat - all
weather, as is also an old Known, even by her board, you know the,
Jule?

"

"Let the nasty people said," the woman in on itself with a shudder.

"Good day, Mr. Meier," cried at that moment mulberry, the straight with his cart to they drove
by and his hat in mock homage to him deep waved - "please me your wife to recommend to the obedient.
"

Steffen, who had stuck his right hand in his pocket, drew it out, attacked the Cap and went stiff
and grim in the him in more ways than one hated Sander Scheer over.

"A noble couple," but this muttered to himself, when he, without following the two continue
to look around, had driven past them, "a very classy couple that
must be true.

Would also be what if I knew what the drum again for an end to take here in America - at least
at state expense, or would be wrong a lot. "

! »Hello Sander Scheer," cried a loud cheerful voice from behind him
- "Hold on there, here is work for you.

"

Mulberry quickly stood still and looked around for the caller, the front on the bow of the
same Boat was that had entered the man from the Haidschnucke with his wife stated and the boiler
at its top a large sign with his name "The backwoods queen" and the destination St. Louis was wearing.

"Is today the whole of the landing Haidschnucke weggeschüttelt here?" Murmured the Sander Scheer
amazed by his teeth as he returned one of his companions, also dressed as a sailor, not far from
the wave, looking, »Damn short and blue shirts seem to be an ordinary
fashion items - hm, hm, hm, Mr. Donner as a sailor not bad, because
Zacchaeus mulberry may be greater capabilities accordingly, may soon
expect to be captain.

"

"Now go as mulberry's business?" Cried George thunder again, and then came on the gangway, his
thumbs in front of the wide leather belt that his hips embraced, over land - "weather man
again, you look exactly like still on board, and you have not amerikanisirt in the least. "

"Had
soon 'say anything," grumbled mulberry, the figure before him with a custom mix sarcasm and humor
considering, "but what you do on here, and as you see from '?

Mulberry, however, had cause to ask so, because to George Donner appeared in any case a have gone
on to great change and very peculiar. was already in his appearance he was a different man,
the rock from the dark-blue sailor shirt and a short had thrown over, which was held together
in the middle of the aforementioned leather belt. The legs were stuck in trousers of the same simple
substance, his blue striped shirt holding a beaten black silk scarf
in a sailor knot together, and the dark curly Hair covered a blue
woolen Scottish cap, while on the belt a short sailors knife hung
with wooden handle and leather sheath.

But not alone - his whole being had lost the earnest, dreamy that it had been on board so peculiar,
and was free and determined to become almost boldly so, although without removing anything from
his open honesty to have lost.

He laughed when he's dirty, sullen boy who had always in his whole being much fun, yet equally
sour, and in the same buttonhole up constricted, and without any
trace of a pure linen saw standing before him, but improved by Mulberries
if no mood.

"As I look, my worthy Mulberry?"

Donner laughed, "like a man who is determined to make his way in America, and to see the country
and get to know. "

learn "To know the land you walk on the water?" Scheer said the grinder, his forehead astringent
to countless wrinkles - "not bad, and as what? - Captain, mate, Koch, an engineer? "

Nothing can all of the comrade "the young man," so high post avanciren we laughed until when served
from the bottom up; time being I do with a trip as a fireman. "

"As a fireman on board?"

Asked mulberry really surprised.

"When Stoker confirmed thunder laughing," at thirty dollars a month
salary, and free food and lodging, whiskey, sugar, coffee, and how
hot all the advantages that make us worthy boat offers.

"

"Are you in this position as an apprentice or journeyman right to have occurred?" Asked mulberry,
which still could not see enough of the costume of his former companions.

"As a fellow, Mr. Mulberry, as a journeyman, and you should see one
I like the poker will shake.

"

"I can vividly imagine," protested the Scheer grinder, his face in a formal Node squeezing - "I can
think of lively - is also a very suitable employment for a pastor's
son.

"

"Never mind mulberry" laughed the young man, "only acted honestly
and righteously and his bread himself worked on the rest is then not,
whether I need a tuxedo or wear a leather apron, and I come, you can
rely on, so long God gives me my health and healthy limbs.

By the way are a few known of you here on board, "he added, quickly -" Carl Berger, the deserter,
and Mr. Schultze from Hanover.

"

"Even fire man," cried Mulberry quickly and surprised.

"The first yes, not the last," laughed George Donner - "should not
be angry with the poker is Exempt and would endure the fires probably
scarcely twenty-four hours, he goes as a passenger, I think, to St.
Louis.

"

"Hm," growled Mulberry to himself - "all the world go away from here, if I knew that it in
the country would be better, I Schoeb my cart on board. "

"Scissors and knives will give it all to grind," said Donner.

"The possibility exists that I own in future, I let my grind knives" Mulberry said.

"Oho?"

Cried thunder of surprising, "even if you have such plans, friend Scheer Schleifer, then surely
New Orleans is the best place to run quickly galopirende speculations to bring, I know the
way, one for you. "

"A Speculation? - And that would be? "

"Have you seen the huge announcements from blacking, everywhere in
the city stick to the street corners?

"

"But - where the Negro shaved before the jackboots" grinned mulberry,
which the idea extremely pleased.

to give "The same," Donner laughed,
"if your boots in the semi-professional gloss the shoulder part of
your skirt is, your fortune is made.

"

"Listen, even my dear Mr. Donner said, but now irritated mulberry,
and a almost mischievous smile in horribly ugly trains - "if your
fire is not better seem to be as your joke, think so 'I would come,
I rather my wheelbarrow to St. Louis up as you with your steam boat
- who knows whether my skirt is not bare any longer holds as your
blue shirt, and next winter would probably not thank God, a such a
warm overcoat to have.

"

"Peace, worthy old man, peace," laughed the young man, "the remark
was not bad intended and should not offend you - on the contrary,
did I even ask you to namely to give me a couple of young people from
our ship information, you certainly do not at least I trust that your
keen eye for hardly - have lost sight of.

"

"And neither the" - Mulberry said, still distrustful of the young
lads as observer.

"What's become of the doctor Hückl said this -"

I have not seen him again, since he left on that first night landing
our boat.

"

"Lives now in ---- street," said Mulberry, "carries a large sign over the door JA Hückl, German
doctor and obstetrician, "Mulberry smiled -" and right and left at
the sign he has let some big black and red paint and gold rosettes.

"

George Donner laughed.

"The is his bread are already here," he said, shrugging, "you can
change who's, perhaps have the right people who claim there, in America
the people wanted to be deceived.

"

"Maybe they are right," muttered Mulberry to himself - "there's no maybe here, and anyone who uses
his bones, usually must give the skin into the bargain - I Gerber to remember here - but for who
you wanted to ask you? "

"Have you heard of Henkel and his wife nothing?"

"Hm -" said Mulberry, with his left hand stroking the gray chin stubble
- is " straight, but have seen.

"

"SEEN? - What '

"Now as they went on board," said mulberry.

"The poor woman - if she has recovered well -"

"Wonders the story," said mulberry.

"I do not believe that the disease was significant," said Donner, referring to the remark - "Rest
and nutritious food they will probably soon be restored.

I would have liked once again visited me and inquired after her health,
she might as well not yet interfere - you do not know where they live?

"

"Who?" - The woman with the girl? "

"Henkel -"

"It's possible that they are together again," said Mulberry dry - "in the beginning they were
apart. "

"How so?"

Donner asked in surprise.

"Now the Woman is pulled into a hotel, and the Lord said to another" Mulberry - "Were together
long enough on board, and America is a free country."

"Nonsense," said the young man, laughing, "because you can untie something Mr. Mulberry - Henkel
will guard and let his young, very pretty woman to move to another
hotel - I just want to know whether they feel completely well again.

"

"Could you know best if you had been related to" mulberry said dryly.

"Been found? - What do you mean? "

"The fact that the small things - like the girl but said that in the cabin, the maid played?
- "

"Hedwig," Donner said quickly.

Yes probably, Hedwig, that you sought as a pin in the whole city and
me, the it happened to hit the road, has also asked you to.

"

"Good God, I had a clue he had," said Albert, "but what they wanted from me - Medical assistance
"?

"Now what? - The woman lay dangerously ill, and she had, she said, no Confidence in an American
doctor, I would have mistaken the way, much if not perhaps as little money as trust -. "

That's just so little money? - Nonsense, her father is one of the richest people in Heilingen and
their Men's husband or heir of half a million -. "

Yes - is quite beautiful, but now seems to me, is the half million was not yet ripe, and has
yet to hang a while.

The young lady I have, however, to Mr. Doctor Hückl sent, which put up his sign on the very
day, of which she wanted to know nothing and went away sad. "

"And what hotel was that?"

Said George quickly.

"Yes, I do not know," Mulberry said.

 The sharp ringing of the bell boat Queen of the Backwoods interrupted
their conversation.

"On board, because your people on board!

Hell and damnation, what you stand around outside and there have Foot monkeys for sale. - On board
of every mother's son of you when I should not make you legs -. "

"If I am not mistaken," said Mulberry friendly, "so she asked the man in there but Kindly come
to the coffee into it, right? "

"Dear God," cried George, the sneer is all about listening, "that
I now here must be banned, and have no time left to visit her.

"

"If concluded, in the costume also very respectable and trust arousing but appearance" of Scheer
grinder.
"Hola! On board because - you, Dutchman over there with the Scottish
cap - what is the name of the The same guy - heh, George, on board
here, you do not hear, or I will make you legs? "

"Directly, directly,"
cried the young man anxiously and impatiently stamping his foot, "I
wanted to lose my eight day's pay, which I have worked on board, when
I only two hours at room now the poor lady would have to seek and
to learn how she is. "

"Have had three weeks and not considering
it," said Mulberry quietly, "where does now suddenly the rush? "

"Will
you do me a favor, dear Mulberry?"

Dear mulberry "Scheer said the
grinder still laughing to himself - rather" mulberry, tenderly as
it sounds - and what would it? "

"You want to explore the women?"

"The
lady said, Madame Henkel would have been infinitely long for me to
- if the Only thing not to be dangerous. "

"Will you tell them that
I had no idea they needed my help in return no later than two weeks
but my boat back to New Orleans and I would then At your service,
your address should I put it under my name on the post. "

"I want
to say that you would become a doctor on board ship?" Asked mulberry.

"Tell
the truth," said Albert, "it is always best, but good-Mulberry - I
has truly gone. "

"The coffee is cold," said the latter. -

"You
pull the planks one already," cried the young man, "good-bye, and
if I can ever come to a service, you count on me! "

"Throw the rope
was going on," he cried at that moment the voice of the mate, the
front stood on the bow and headed into the stream go of the boat -
"the dew up front in the Ring on land where the Baboon is of a man
- you do not see "?

Mulberry, which was meant by the Baboon did not
understand what the man happily on English said, but George threw
the Springtau on which the front part of the boat on land attached,
was going on, again sounded the bell, the last plank on which the
young man barely Time kept running on board was recovered, and George
Donner waved again on board from, the most shore remaining mulberry
hand, what this, much to the delight of the other firemen and deck
hands, with a very deep and respectful bow, at he waved his old hat
in the air, replied, but then taking up his cart muttering to himself:

Dear
mulberry, I suppose - rather Mulberry - Mulberry will play pleasant
and the messenger play - bah - it will put itself an address to the
post, which will please him - . And Scheer continued the sander, amused
by the thought quietly to himself hinschmunzelnd along the levees.

5th
chapter

Literary acquaintances.

In New Orleans, in ---- street,
on the lower corner of the market was a narrow high, of red, unbeworfenen
brick-built house, which over its entire width through a powerful,
weißlackirtes shield and the words on this:

Expedition of the New
Orleans Bee "

wore. At the door down even a small German label was
affixed, the "Office" of the "editor" editor or high as a staircase
lying, and the hours 10:00 to 12:00 Partly, drei bis fünf clock as
of the afternoon as the most appropriate designated to speak to him.

It
was about half past three clock afternoon in early November of that
year, much as a young man, decently dressed in a black coat, dark
trousers and gloves, his hat perhaps because of the heat in his hand,
reached the house, the small sign below it through, his hair this
something arranged, and then the fairly steep, still quite new staircase
ascended slowly. He was wearing a firmly suggested package that possibly
contained manuscript, under the left arm, and knocked softly on the
appropriate door with a sign marked

"Walk in!" [12]

"Have I the
pleasure of speaking with Mr. Doctor Rose Garden?"

"Please - I'm
not a doctor - but my name is Rose Garden, with whom I have the honor"?

"Theobald
- Fridolin Theobald - lyric poets and writers in general, from Germany
"stood our friend the small, somewhat blackish-looking man himself
before, giving him one, carefully presented on the corner of depressed
business card. The old gentleman Hamann 86 4. 117 different
 occupations 5. Literary acquaintances 144
 6. The fire man 171 7. The Germans in Cincinnati
 197 8. Professor Lobel as Farmer 233 9.
 Lord of Hopfgarten Adventure 247
 
 First chapter

The trip through Arkansas.

Roared up the Mississippi, the small but efficient steamboat Little Rock, Fort Smith, the border town
of the Indian Territory under, but also at all intermediate places,
where just Passengers wanted to get in or get on board or where cargo
from New Orleans invited was to create.

Passengers had it but not very many on board, for the great human stream of immigration is preferable
to start up the Mississippi to St. Louis and to the northern states, Iowa or Wisconsin, or
up the Ohio, where we are with our friend Jane Wilmington were followed. The Arkansas was up,
the train of immigration or not so strong because the foreigners were afraid of the cold fever,
are prevalent in the eastern parts of the State, and equally afraid to go to the West, not their
imagination rarely far too poetic way with bears, panthers and God
knows what else for rapid animals populated.

Have nothing less therein situated cities in part quite brave progress made bloom and flourish
and in the young country to exhibit the fruit of the ground, like little another State of the Union,
and in its western mountains in such a healthy and excellent situated, laced throughout with beautiful
flowing surfaces offers, as do the farmers only can. Of course, it was still wild in the Squatterstaat
nor terribly wild, and as the Little Rock, who get to the capital of Arkansas, his name, and,
in fact, a Kaufmann was there, the more lively left Mississippi, and in the small town Napoleon
left in the mouth of the Arkansas was turning himself seemed forest, endless forest, the shore
to cover, thinning out of which only here and there small brought under cultivation, or from
the wood-cutters Forest pelts the wilderness not broke, just the same color in a somewhat changed.
Sealed and immediately behind it resumed its dark shadow, and the with flowing vines in festoons
hung swinging branches often stretched far beyond the shore, and
the fact hinschäumenden current.

Broad, bright sand bars fills the outer bends of the pretty in this season low current, to which were
flocks of wild ducks and geese at the approach of oncoming Boat up the long dark necks stretched
high, flapping their wings, and then spreads in its arrow-straight
rows, until the leader of high wedge-shaped in the blue air above
his train arranged, and queer about the forest was gone, a quiet lake
or marsh.

Everywhere there rose ugly snags and sawyers (in sand or mud bottom of fixed strains and branches)
from the tide rose, the pilot, in the not so wide fairways at double Caution warning, and the
banks of this stream, like that of Mississippi, betrayed the Devastation that he caused here
in the wooded shore. Whole sections of the high, the most glorious fruit soil existing banks
were undermined, hundreds of powerful tribes swept into the tide quirlende their branches
now, and again and again and drilled washed off the flow of the already
half only down roots of the nearest trees, they also catch yellow
in its vortex.

Sycamore, cotton wood trees, ash trees and cypresses, with stout willow on direct Shore, the
undergrowth, as the Mississippi, often dense, almost impenetrable reed breaks filled, the vegetation
of the river landings, which form at least, by the river itself from the Passers will be made,
and here, however, steals the elusive panther at night to stream down to quench his thirst,
or the slim deer ambush, which the waters of the Arkansas, because of its salt content, zealously
investigated, suggests that in the reed breaks American gelbnasige bear his camp rightly, rears
with the paws, the wild turkey in The high cotton-wood logs, and searches of their summit, with
a heavy, slightly weary to achieve flight, the other shore, and the Catamount, a cross between a panther
and wild Cat crouches, is close to the shore in the dead of night, the steamboat as it regularly
with the pull- Wheeler and a sharp gasp stopped working upstream, and flees with volatile rates
Bank ascended the steep bank, as the spray against the country thrown
at him and waves .

Lick

It is a wonderful, indescribable feeling to swift boat between these quiet whispering forests glide
along and fill the chest of tourism especially, looking in vain to penetrate deep in the forest
studied, with a half-timid request that wilderness to enter. As the treetops whisper so softly
and so mysterious, and winds vary over and over, and their fragrant veil over the trembling
darkness of the forest wide - As it creaks and groans in there and sighs, and creeps through
it, through the yellow, Years and years of accumulated yellow leaves with a quiet, timid step,
and in the leaves rustling, and out through the bushes. - Hui - past - what was that? - Glided like
a phantom at the edge of the woods out and a few glowing eyes sparkled for a moment over from there. A
wolf? - Perhaps, the black treacherous, murderous boys have their playground there, and when
night comes, still echoing the beautifully plaintive, eerie hollow sound of the owl out from there,
with the teasing cry of the whippoorwill, [1] to the playmates calls
- »whip poor will - whip poor will.

"

The beautiful - beautiful forest - but he remains a closed sanctuary to you if you not bold
and daring jump from the boat, sometimes with strong arms of the bushes and the holy Floor-enter,
the temple of God, and with his mighty high columns. - Only his Breathing you hear when you stand
at the gate that you are still arms wide and hospitable contrary to spread, the silent noise
his dark tops, and they greet you well and nod To you, how to greet the strangers you meet
on the street, but the loving tone it is not, with whom she the friend
who trusted their protection whisper, the lullaby - gently, gently,
that it does not bother him and keep him the moonbeams from his eyes.

"Oh how wonderful - oh how wonderful" a female voice sighed delighted
by the guards from the steamer, as this close to the wild rushing
over the banks roared - "who now was over - into it to explore the
wonders of this dark, mysterious world!

"

Yes, mosquitoes and ticks, you should find enough, dear Miss, "she said in this Moment a voice
as Amalie of Seebald, their feelings loud unconsciously words given the arms pressed tightly
to his chest, his eyes eagerly rushing to the top tacked, stood on
the gallery of the Damencajüte of Little Rock and after the dark forest
over looked.

Mademoiselle Seebald looked up surprised, and saw a little stocky, in a gray About Rock knotted and
dense with a slightly worn straw hat covered human form on to the
wheel stand that held a handkerchief in his hand and seemed on the
point, someone, the still higher up on the shore in a small, barely
noticeable clearing stood waving.

in it "monster mosquitoes as much,"
said the friendly-looking little man, "enormous, and ticks? - Whew,
I'm there once was there, right under the Arkansas Post; Tschisus
Adige Dobbeljuw circles, what ticks! if I am not held a part, I would
the others pulled out of bed, and the next morning my skin was like
a sieve, that I I had to paint it properly with tree resin, not only
to leak - but splendid set Country in there.

"

"They are known here?" Asked Mademoiselle de Seebald with more interest than they otherwise
have to the little insignificant man had taken - "know the country and perhaps the people"?

"Already?"

Said the little weird stranger with a tremendously self-conscious smile, He turned out in graphical
form his response to his right coat pocket and the lady was - "I
know my bag? - I'm Charley Fischer - You have not yet Charley fishing
in Little Rock is? how? - Not yet? - I am twelve years here in the
country and have Little Rock to help build, at that time was really
a little rock, [2] but now become a bigger hiep.

"

Mademoiselle Seebald smiled at the quaint language of the man, but she was them to get to know
the exact situation of the farm that belonged to Count Olnitzki and, as it should be removed
not so very long way from the capital, Little Rock, must also be known at least from the man.

"Could
I ask because maybe ask for some information about someone who lives
near you? she asked him, and was shocked almost as if the little stranger
quite trusting the small tab of Wheel down and struck her in the gallery.

She made it an almost involuntary Movement back and looked for their Cajütenthür, Charley, however,
the movement of the false understood said politely:

"Has Nothing to say, my lady, I can everywhere, the Captain knows
me and is my close friend.

Myself have made it a trip to Napoleon in order to to see things that came up to me from New
Orleans and that the boat near Napoleon accident, but I get quite all right again and the whole
story yourself taken. And according to who you wanted to ask if I may ask? "

"You know a Olnitzki Graf, the grove near the Oakland and has a farm
there as well For several years is established?

"

"Count Olnitzki - Count Olnitzki" said Charley Fischer, as he called himself, while stroking his chin
with his right hand while the left lower and lower in drilled into the appropriate pocket - "Count
Olnitzki - the name but I have often heard enough, he must also already
be with me in Little Rock have been - what has he just as intended
- I believe something put up for sale?

"

"Probably its products - Turkish wheat and cotton -" said Miss von Seebald.

"No, no - it was something else," said Charley.

"Or the product of his hunts - deer and bear skins ham." -

"No, no," insisted the little German, "there was something very bizarre;
Jemin again that I now can not remember it.

"

"But then it has absolutely nothing to mean. - You know at least the
situation and can tell me where I must depart from the steamer to
the place most accessible.

The captain said I would need a ride to Little Rock. "

"Anyway, anyway," Charley said quickly, "can then logiren with me,
I also For some time a hotel, my brother, but also holds one, and
we therefore have a sense opposition to each other, but the opposition
is indeed the soul of society, the life instinct, of all our countries
together; what we would be here all together without opposition "?

"But I think I do not reside in Little Rock," said Miss evasive of Seebald.

"But it will probably be evening before we get there," said Charley
- "but can you consider yet, here you have at least my address.

"

"And which way do I suggest one of Little Rock?" Asked the young lady, with a slightly due to end Taking
the card bow - "of course is that I know on the other side of the Stream -. "

»Oakland grove? - I suppose, but on the streets - wet a little, - magnificent road there when it
was raining, but otherwise deflected wide and splendid in the woods. "

"And when does the Post Office there?" Asked Mademoiselle de Seebald.

"The Post" - Charley said it quickly while viewing and amazed, but
continued, recollecting himself, added, "the letter do you mean? -
The mail-rider [3] is twice a week for Batesville up and come back
twice.

"

"And the driving post?"

»Post driving, hahaha" - Charley laughed, "the bears and panthers would be extremely surprised
once they heard rattle through a driving post between them.

Bless your soul, young lady, into it is not a driving post.

Nothing like a mounted messenger, and if you are from Oakland Grove
do you have to either walk or ride.

Your luggage may be, however, to I put in the house. "

"That would be terrible," cried Mademoiselle Seebald.

"Oh it is definitely there," said Charley.

"No, I mean the way on foot or on horseback to make, - I have never
been on a horse sat.

"

"That's easy," said Charley, "the left foot is in the stirrup and the right Knee you take, you
see, so - about the Knuppe up sitting on the Saddle, then You can
not fall down and hang up like a leech.

"

"And how far is the place of Little Rock?"

"Oakland Grove?"

"No, where Count Olnitzki lives?"

"Yes I really do not know exactly," Charley said, shrugging, "I'm on the direction not yet come
out, but then you have to take one leader with horses, and your husband
- you're married, if I may ask?

"

The question came so suddenly that Amalie of Seebald blushed involuntarily
about it but smile answered:

"No, I'm not married."

"But you have at any rate monitoring," said Charley.

"I'm all alone," replied the lady.

"All alone? - And do all alone in the woods "?

"And why not?"

"Now listen, you not mind me," said Charley, a friendly smile, "that is for now but probably only
your fun? "

"But why in God's name?" Asked Mademoiselle de Seebald really worried about the whole Essence of
the man - "what can happen for me in the woods? Are there still Indians? "

"Indians? - No, the river may store some, but to be under supervision and are harmless. "

"Or wild animals?"

"Well, there are probably as bears and panthers, but there is seldom
like that someone have been incurred.

"

"What else should I then stop?"

"Ih now said yes," Mr Fischer - "it is true, it would have, but - I do not know yet; I do not
want alone and without a gun to Oakland Grove, and from there further into the forest go in, and
I am now twelve years in Arkansas. In general, it is nowhere better than in Little Rock, which
is a capital spot and should not surprise me at all if it would once the first city in the Union.
After Charley Fischer is in place, because I have a whole party of
purchased lots, and the need to even get a hopeless value.

"

"But it has yet incredibly romantic lot, all alone through the woods to go," said Miss of Seebald.

"Romantic,
you dear God replied," shrugged the little practical man, "the buying I dear not because that does
not pay. 've Known several people here - also German young cute guys that their forces would
turn to what can be reasonable, which also did just continue to do nothing than in the forest with
a rifle running around alone, only a few ragged Deer and the little romance for. What's happened
to them afterwards? - Had more Nothing she was wearing when her leather
hunting shirt and leggings, while the Moccasins Feet and not a cent
in your pocket, or even a pocket in itself, a dime into it to do,
like maybe their ball bags, and after they brought trouble and need
fur together just enough to pay their passage on a steamer to get
away again. The Devil take such a romantic - ne as I praise Little
Rock. "

"And you know the Count Olnitzki not personally? - Were never
there in the area? "

"No, Madame - Mademoiselle I wanted to say,
but you know, with the count here not mean much. "

"How so, is he
bad?" Asked Amelia quickly and frightened.

"To whom? the Olnitzki?
yes, I do not know - no, I mean just with the title at all. Knowledge
You, here in America we are all equal - all free citizens, much like
the one the other, and if I wanted to call me for fun Graf Charley
Fischer, and no one would have something dawieder, I would just count
Charley Fischer, and when people come to me and drink a glass of brandy
wanted, they would beat me as now on their shoulders and say, 'nu
Earl Fischer, old House, how are you, how do you Thut you? ""

"I
do not believe that Count Olnitzki entitled to a higher position of
power," said Miss of Seebald.

"No, I can think of," Charley said
kindly, would "help him do nothing, especially not here in Arkansas.
We have here the way a lot of Poland, as is the Count Doraski the
Red River and the count Potelsk - Podelscyk - well as he is for, like,
cursed Names who have sometimes Poland, and the Americans are right
when they say you could they speak only when you sneezed three times
and then ski said - well never mind, as he means. They are comrades in spirit, though since college days no word has ever
passed between them, and Abbot's eyes fill with emotion he cannot repress as he thinks how
bitter a loss this son and brother has been to the stricken old father and fragile sister. The horses were biased, the passengers climbed into their seats, the German
as the second last, the blow was thrown. "All right," cried the servant, or a similar individual
who seemed to feel very independent, but otherwise, the four lively, pretty well kept cents
to subject, and with a terrible shock, which even the quality of the leather band was rehearsing
back, in motion, the car suddenly rattled to the cheers of the young people of Hollow Field in
full flight to the small Place and into the woods.

The reader, who never raced in an American coach, even for a notion the jerky motion, even only
intermittently to teach would be impossible, and Hopfgarten thanked after the first quarter
of an hour to God that left him in no time Hollow Field been to take a proper meal, he would
have had to endure the torments of hell.

One other inconvenience, he escaped again but not the spitting of Americans he had since his
first steam boat noticed, and it seemed to him have been fatal without the harassed him further,
but here, in the narrow space of the coach-box, he came to the people in such close contact
that he use the disgusting could not walk out of the way and soon found to his horror as he really
wanton in a most dire situation As was brought into it. That the other passengers through the
open window of the shock a fairly regular fire from ausgespritztem Tabackssaft talking was allowed,
it naturally not astonish, he had it even if was not prepared to such a degree. The genirte him so
no more, he closed his eyes and gave himself up with it until he have used a little more about
it would be his own thoughts, but the ill-fated passenger to his right, who sat with him on the
same Bret, as the front in the right Corner - and the latter even more than the first - soon brought
him to despair. The good people namely, long hulking Hoosier, [17], besides, did not know what
they do with her legs had to because the leather strapped down by her side, was obliquely at
him and spit him away to reach the car window, and though the middle passenger tried in the
beginning between their knees hit the floor, so that was rather worse than the first. Hopfgarten could
never get the slightest reason to complain, because not even the smallest syringe of met him,
so cleverly directs the boys to brown juice where they wanted him. But despite this, in the next
hour, perhaps sixty Time experience gained, he could not help after each expectoration itself
down , To see to make sure of the status quo of his coat and his trousers until he finally - the
last man blunts itself against Tabackssaft - a battered wool Blanket pulled around him and this
cost factor is determined undertook to pay attention to nothing further.

All the passengers seemed to farmers from the neighborhood or from
Vincennes to be - even a Quaker, who was between them - partly for
the cattle trade, and partly to other such purposes, the Ohio between
Cincinnati and the small settlements and the mouth the Wabash had
visited.

The conversation was a link between the spitting and rattles and shaking of the car, solely
to cattle and pigs, corn prices and "what flour and whiskey were worth. "The area was also
quite the same, the forest where the eye enough, only occasionally interrupted by small settlements,
which are always on some time before noticeable by the way was muddy. It was here at all more
rain than the river, or rather still raining as soon as they come down individually Showers
proved. The paths that now and then over a small open meadow and natural spots - First foothills
of the prairies - led, were always soft and rough, and the vigorous Galop with their journey
began shrinking, most recently matched to a tough step, in which to drag the panting horse and
cart, the unwieldy by the heavy clay soil had.

* * * * *

Here and there they stopped at small inns poor enough looking at some
refreshment which was always spiced with brandy in all shapes and
blends, to eat, but otherwise the trip went forward quickly without
interruption, and the various driver, with good horses, always did,
really all it can to move forward.

       

* * * * *

So broke in the night, the rain became stronger, the road impassable;
everywhere were here broken down branches and twigs, even overturned
tribes, stalking it often quarter-hour cost, Kreutzer and queer over
it, while already in the help of individual passengers claim had to
be taken to the front in the "boot" from lying ax, the worst obstacles
to hit the road.

       If they pass sometimes a deep sump body in the street remained even
left them nothing but about the way to haun a new path.

Hopfgarten had is this "small Hülfsleistungen" of which the brave Hoosiers often very wet
and muddy returned, and gave off a terrible haze in the car until now escape still knew and was uphill
despite repeated taunts of the others, and down quietly in the car sitting still. As long as he
could get was the dry matter even more unbearable, and then they took a few hours longer to
Vincennes and missed the Cincinnati Post, what's that? He then spent a few days there and looked
at the Neighborhood, such as the one beginning Illinois prairies.

Slowly the heavy crockery rattled, however, now almost at every stroke of the curses and imprecations
accompanied the impatient passengers, stormy by the wild Night. The wind howled in the trees,
and the rain fell with such force against the established to protect leather, that even the most
willing concern of today's head wagging about the possibility of repeated folding. Contrary
to expectations was the coach But now on better ways to quickly and alive, and then screened
again thend in softer ground, slowly and painfully forward, but at
least forward, and the forest here was much more open than in the
places they passed the evening, and the way of wood almost entirely
free.

It might become his elf clock, they just had another small town with some a great name to leave,
and the outgoing coach, gave them new some well-intentioned warnings about the now passive leaders
"blossom green swamp" (the green swamp, where flowers) when they heard splashing out at the wheels.
Rasch also seeing noticed them as they provide a set of laughter or Dümpel, now in the rain
one ordinary small lake formed passed, with the country here seemed flat and level, and the
Wheels cut deeply into the spongy ground.

They took about half an hour to they regained comparatively drier ground, that is not the least
reason completely under water. Here began anew on hill ground, his first slippery Hang it
up laboriously worked just as the car, as on the other side quickly drove down to the left
to go to deep striking began. The of the passengers, had begun to nod a little, were fast enough gay,
and "Hey driver! (Driver) " screamed one of the people with thin whistling, nasal voice - "what
do you do because out there - but to throw your not? - I've only got about half a mile to
widow go to Jones's, but until then you will keep the damn old box in motion? "

"Damn Jones's widow," was not just the polite, softly growled response of the charioteer, who,
having to do with the weather in his harness and the horses more than they should "go to grass
widow Jones"; give to the cargo, luggage and passengers, eight.

"In fact, friend, the car starts to said disproportionately inclined to go" at this moment the
Quakers, who until then, even in the places where they stopped, less than ten words spoken had,
by itself, if that was possible, at risk of the side continuing to
Mr manufacture of Hopfgarten in a vague sense of the balance, urged
- "You will not knock it '?

He had his sentence not quite finished when the right front wheel
to increase, a stone or branch aground; a moment the carriage rolled
through the rapidly attracting Horse swept away, carrying on the two
left wheels to the next moment, under the Outcry of all the inmates,
heavy to the left, through knock on the side at which the only door
was located.

The confusion that now was inside was horrible, all dug and pushed by each other, only once
to come first to his feet and the clamor for the driver to "unbutton" that she "could get
to windward" from the "damn box," drowned everything else and of
course they did in this first did not hear what was going on outside.

The "Driver" which, however, still while the horses stood happily, again had picked up the mud
thrown him in the first shock, came now to the car ascended, the cry of distress of the passengers
to follow, but not about this to please but because he is without
the help of his dishes, of course, could never again raise.

"Hell and damnation," he cursed loud enough to be understood in the beard of each word while
he felt in the dark for buttons and buckles of leather curtains,
to this open and allow its passengers into the open - "man must since
a cursed Band of idle loafers and idlers in night and fog driving
around in the world, and its suitable necks, such as risk Irishman
his horses - if they took only the devil, the whole sponge bewilderedly
in the cage as they squat. - Da Luv "He then closed his flattering
address by he threw back the leather finally opened, and the now extremely
low tide existing rain between the unfortunate passengers into left
- "now you can do you a kindness and even see how it is out there
- now we are long gone enough and should a piece of go on foot.

"

Was the driver the way a bad mood, it was the passengers even more, and only the weather Stock
and darkness prevented perhaps a serious fight between one or the
other of the band, rough with the driver.

But here was no time for contemplation, for the longer they stood beside the overturned car, the
longer the rain poured on them down and the sooner they picked up the back, the faster they
came back into the dry.

"Awkward livestock from a driver," shouted one of the Hoosier However, the last of the Car was
parked, and in vain at home after his hat fell down feeling "goes first into the blue into
it, and then makes the mouth too full of insults. Where did you get your Driving learned Langbein,
heh? - You I should like once in eight days with their hands. "

"Never Mind Bill," shouted another man to "come out of the trap and
press your shoulder here in that we get the damn thing back in the
air.

So here - raises boys - Ahoy-y - you, Dutchman smaller you are the shorter of us, but once you
crawl underneath, he falls back again. "

Lord of Hopfgarten, this was the genial salutation thought, but do not think its impact to make,
and his own chair back to the rest of the whole car give away, with
touch he had but, he did not want to stay keep the night there in
the mud, and the combined Efforts of the passengers it was because
finally the heavy car back to its to make wheels and luggage have
fallen out by the light of a lamp - the other had gone before, and
then also to the abundance of broken in the fall, gather up.

The driver had however complicated the dish of the horses in order and scrambled the care of
the luggage of all passengers leaving, with an "Oops grabs you again inside, all with one another,
to the next hole "back in his seat, where he, as slamming the carriage door to him was the signal,
single-cut with new curses on the horses.

The condition of the passengers inside the way, was, notwithstanding that they are now at least
outside the Rain were protected, a very mislicher because soaked to the skin, hands and feet
fully Mud, they could not remember anything to add a comfortable
rest.

The Coachman's ominous words - "they should enter to the next hole," they sounded attending still
in the ears, and in fact Prattyush the spinning of the car, in the them over and over were thrown
that they survived the worst places not had.

Half an hour later, however, they have to widow Jones, and increased their half-frozen Members
- except the Quakers, who drank no spirits - in a glass vile Cognac, half and half warm water, sulfuric
acid, but it was kept here any longer, and a passenger got out of here after they called out, laughing,
"if they just down umwürfen the hill again, they should just call, and he would then down with
the lantern come together and they are looking for. "

Despite the uncomfortable ride by the way, and despite the rain that began niederzupeitschen more
sharply, during the night was dark and stormy, the humor seemed to be in the tight with people
crammed box but to finally win the upper hand, described the passengers to each other the
situations in which it found itself, as the car capsized laughed about the individual desperate
cries, and even the outrageous rudeness of the driver, and were this known together than they
would probably become the most beautiful weather. You already started to really again a soothing
feeling of security to give as the car's on a new all together throwing
jerk that - and then was stuck.

In vain were all lashes, and curses the "drivers, the car was stuck and was not on the to take place,
and the passengers had to, despite the weather, once again out.

This was now, however, that the right front wheel moved into an old root was, from which it could
be easily released again, but as it looked closer, erwieß is that two memory are broken, under
the heavy weight of eight passengers not a hundred yards would have
held far more.

 

No one knew - a man who lived up there but in the forest, was so called, he was also married,
but have never come here to them, at least had never been to her house stopped. Incidentally,
it should be excellent country, where he lived - just a little swampy. -

"And how far it was still up there?"

"Ih well, not so far, all over a straight line, perhaps there would be little more than twelve
Miles can be English, but it led, because of an intervening swamp, no Get there directly,
only the hunters came into it sometimes, and it was great hunting ground. Who else was over,
had to Mores of Rose Farm, and from there led a fairly trodden Path
across to the direction the old man who owned the house here, said
that he and believed to have also heard that a Pole was over there,
"an" improvement.

"

Mademoiselle Seebald do not understand that Count Olnitzki, but the
one from his farm lively movement of Little Rock, the capital, had
to keep so little known here is, or was there perhaps a different
point in the interior, where it sells its products?

"Ih well, yes it is possible," was the reply, "that he as comfortable or convenient for Batesville
on the White River would be to find even small steamer ran up. "

So it had to be one, probably he associated with Batesville, at least a significant City if
they had steam boat connection. A lot of time to further explore their remained not more, for
"Billy Jones's" well man had been clamped, Rose Mores place yet to
achieve dark; Mademoiselle Seebald inquired why, and paid their bill,
and few minutes later the carriage rattled again, now to something
better ways through the woods further and further north up, to its
destination. If we only Once
    the need fewer workers will have better to be. "
    

    "Edward feels very happy here and he is now a Entdeckungszug, as
    he calls it, in the interior, but if he he must also come back
    with hard gripping, for lazy people we can not do - this has to
    work all ".

    
    "The location of our farm is lovely, in a small valley, boilers, surrounded
    by high but not very densely wooded hills that are We like
    being immersed in the wilderness, and yet they are very close
    to civilized areas. A small mountain stream with clear water is scarcely
    twenty paces from the house. However, in the very overgrown garden
    are doing a lot of young peach trees and Quince and apple trees
    that bear good fruit again later to be in the woods grow a vast
    quantity of wild blackberries, and indeed many other fruit trees with
    wild grapevines, which I in you my next will describe in more detail,
    for now've I find myself still can not. "

    
    is "Our English is still very weak, and the neighbors, the one exception
    in the Grahamstown sold us the place and is a Pennsylvanian who speak
    no other way, such as English, and we speak broken this beautiful
    around with them, but as we have nothing but German workers, we can
    use the English now for a while without.

    "
    
    "Mother is unfortunately the last few days have been unwell and
    has the must guard bed, the new alien life, it has also probably attacked
    more than us that we are still young and we just do not worry. In
    the beginning, she has even more tearful eyes had - if they
    wanted to hide it well before us, we have but mind you. But now
    that she sees that it goes forward, she finds into better, and in
the next few years I hope all be good.

    "
    
    "Father is very happy now, he is from early on by the hand, and measures
    and records, and orders, and if he also sometimes quarrel with
    the people who do not want to Make as Much as it is for good, so
    he gets the little excitement quite well because he is big and fat
it, and looks good and kicking off.

    "
    
    "But now enough of us, me and us all the concern expressed as it to
    you in your new life is going, my heart, and if you yourself
    from Your illness recovered fully. Lord of Hopfgarten, the Dir tell
    a lot of us will, of course, you promised us themselves to visit,
    and to pay us accurate report, but we would also like to see it by
    yourself in writing that you are well is, keeps his word to your dear
    husband, and brings you to us. We look forward to infinity, and
    until then we are already better established than now. Our address
    do I write to you down here very well.

    How are you getting Hedwig, she is happy and ? Healthy "-
    
    "But I must close now, people come out with the a cow that we had
    run away, and after they have the all day were looking for,
    is in the kitchen to do so much, I can not sit here any longer,
    I only wanted you can at least know how we are doing. So live
    quite well, Greetings to your dear husband and Hedwig very nice
    of us Allen, as I am also all for you lot applied a thousand greetings
have, and remember sometimes friendly

Your Marie.

    "

Ninth chapter

Lord of Hopfgarten adventure.

Hopfgarten reached after a short and not unpleasant ride the small town of Hollow Field, from
the beginning but he really believed he has returned to Grahamstown as possible one another.
Only the inn sign was different: the ugly bust any human figure with
great Allongenperrücke and in a blue uniform is buttoned, the Signature,
must be well respected internally, externally here but sadly mistreated
Name "George Washington" was wearing. There is a moment of silence, broken only by the rattle of the window in its casing as
it shudders to the distant boom of the guns far down the line. This race marks the transition from the red-skin to the white man;
and how the wolf dog that is half the wolf gender or belonging, no worser enemy known as just
the wolf, the pioneer hates nothing worse in the world than the one in which Footsteps but
he came here, the red son of the forests.

As these men, with the free, natural life around him, even just such manners have adopted,
and to give the same from others desiring and believing, as they are, had entered the room, they
walked toward the strange lady, she offered to Welcome friendly hands, and then take their seats
at the fire at which they departed their moccasins, and drying aufhingen, was their first concern
to women or runaway report on the failure to be cows that seemed like it was caught again,
to pay. The conversation now turned exclusively to cows, cattle and pigs, until supper, which
the two daughters of old Mrs. Rose More had prepared, however, and all parts of the range, or
of grazing ground, where one or the other piece act, were taken. The Women interested himself
around so much as the men, and Mademoiselle de Seebald, to as a silent listener to the fireplace
sat was really surprised as much local knowledge to find them, by which it to miles distant
sites within the designated forest, and its direction is not as certain ways, but according to
the quarters and smaller they described the flowing water Coursen.

By supper, in which all gathered around the long tables in the room, took but also encounters a
different turn, Jack Owen was the stranger than the nearest neighbor her sister and that "Mr. Olnitzki
"means, and then asked himself a council to indicate how the young German on the best and easiest,
with their baggage could come across.

Jack Owen seemed the way, the very last question to hear, because as he learned that the stranger
a sister of 'Missis Olnitzki "and, over the ocean just solely come over be it to visit, he saw
her with the clear honest eyes for a while and seriously musing on, and then began to once again without
a word to express the fact zuzulangen from the beginning, as if he
had forgotten by then all eat.

"And you can tell me any more about the sister?"

Asked Amelia, "I have already so many times and often wondered how they lost there seemed to live
in the forest, no one could I stand speech, no one remembered to have ever seen in fact. "

"Dear God said," the hunter, without interrupting his meal even for
a moment "All our women come away a little, sometimes a Betversammlung
or any adjacent hard in rolls or pads ceiling steppes, and since the
neighbors are so thin sown with us, is not even that frequently.

"

"But you know it?"

"I? oh sure - - I live like this not half a mile.

"

"And she's fine? - "

"The cold fever has recently shaken off even a little bit, but had
not much to say, and will soon be passed.

"

"And the child? the poor little girl has recovered? "

"The girl" - the man repeated, looking up for the first time to her
- "the boy, my You.

"

"Did Sidonie a boy?" Said Amalie surprised.

"Well," said the hunter, a new piece of venison on the plate taking, "since when have Do they really
had no news of her? "-

"For more than two years."

"Dear God," said old Mrs. Rose More.

"Then, of course," muttered the hunter, half aloud to himself - is
"from the time the girl born and died a few months ago a boy was,
and the child is now, however, seriously ill. "

"The girl dead - Thou great God - the poor, poor Sidonie."

"Her heart will probably have been too full and heavy in the time to write letters," said may
express the matron regretfully, "yes, and you cry then have liked, but the Leave the hand forcing
it not. "

"But how do the residents over the many things Mr. Owens?" Sarah fell in here, Amalie to dispel
that they are not the sad thoughts devoting too much - "it is difficult Irishman to be the transport
of all horses. "

"Is it so much?" Asked Jack Owen.

"Oh, the two crates here, then that case there, and the boxes and travel bags."

"Hmm, that however - even diluted grabs - unusually bad on a horse, but this is the least - there
are certain things for Mrs. Olnitzki "?

"For the most part, as well as my own luggage."

"Very well, then we will also counsel, said the good-natured hunter -" You ought not to get across
your little car through the green briar ridge can, Rose More? after you go smooth and easy to
open through the forest, close up at the Bayo.

"

"On the green briar ridge with the car, man," but said the old man, while shaking his head, "Think
your way out, because we would have to hew until a proper road through brushy hollow, and afterwards
remained still stuck in the swamp on the other side. No, not in a week we would bring the ready,
but with the animals at the overcup flat is towards it well, and
the Boxes and bags are just not overly difficult, and can be quite
good on a pack saddle .

Download Of course one must herumlaviren after hard in the forest with the animals, free web through
durchzufinden the trees, but we can, and I dare them in five to six hours to lead across.
"

"But your Dun will not want to wear."

"Bah, I just Widdersons both mules in my Fenz, which he brought back from Santa Fe has and
will take up to Batesville, which may abverdienen their food. "

"That would be excellent," said Jack Owen, "but when will the lady
to leave for Olnitzkis want?

"

Oh just as soon possible, "- cried Mademoiselle Seebald -" I would go through the night, see
the nurse only an hour earlier to greet. "

"It wants us through the forest but are probably difficult," laughed the good-natured hunter, "but
get up tomorrow morning dawned I serve, and am happy to carry you over, and I but to go home.
"

"But not before breakfast," they could get here Mrs. Rose More in the speech, "with an empty
stomach No one leaves my house if I can help it, and the girls are
up early be that it is not too long.

"

Amalie of Seebald said likes the friendly request, nor do they not their leader move away even before
breakfast did, and the men looked at is now the baggage, and made their division with the packing,
which should be distributed to the two mules, after which Jack Owen himself to come back with his
horse, and make up the rest wanted. The mules Bill Jones should get himself over with his
servant, Jack Owen but wanted to go ahead with the rapid improvement after Lady Olnitzkis.

The morning came, and with beating heart had Amalie made their preparations for the march,
as Jack Owen, After completion of breakfast, a women's saddle on his horse, strapped, before the
door appeared, and the lady invited him to mount his beast, while he himself forward on foot
went. The young lady confessed with blushes now, of course, that they have never been on a horse
sat, the objection was not heeded, Jack Owens was recognized the most pious pony Their range in the
left, above and next to blast off as the rider just fancy took her, was his firm secure step
quietly away, almost like a mule. The girls helped her laughing while in the saddle arranged
her clothes, she gave a small crop in the Hand to push the animal forward, and Jack Owen, with
the long rifle on his shoulder, umbellt of five powerful males, it went on, into the dark forest.

Second
chapter

The Countess Olnitzka.

In the beginning of Seebald Amalie had to do enough with her horse and the new seat on which
they had not felt safe, and therefore are probably not able, the unusual the movement there, and
the frequent rubbing of the overhanging bushes took their whole Attention,
and they were anxious to stop it at the button of the saddle, not
fall off as they still feared.

The good-natured animal that Jack Owen on his hunting had been so trained to follow him like a
dog, but was such a quiet safe step, and did so not about the wild
and cheerful, it umbellenden dogs respecting only on the way and about
the roots and stems lying down, that they soon accustomed to and after
barely a half-hour ride already almost forgot the fear felt by then.

Jack Owen was here most of her, her often you find that box on the
left shoulder, hung above the piston, the left hand down, the dogs
behind, which now, in real Wood in it, could make no more noise, not
to scare away wild standing around somewhere, and his eyes wandered
here quietly and searching all open positions which they passed, often
stuck on one, from the autumn-colored bush, if not yet in the reddened
leaves the slender figure of a deer, mountains and then looked back
into the soft soil of the Path of the newly depressed tracks of deer
or vermin, the to and fro were changed.

They had traveled in silence a large portion of the path, and Amalie already saw in each spot
of lighter forest lay before them, the much-awaited opening of her brother Farm, but a thicket
just moved to the other, the way, the hitherto fairly wide had passed
into the woods, became a narrow, little more traveled path, and still
were not those traces of civilization, the more inseparable from a
settlement are, and how the thin smoke over a city, the proximity
of the creative bustle active People betrayed.

No wagon had pressed the ground here ever its wheels, no Axe still
touching the powerful tribes, and even the few horse tracks were in
the path of Deer and panther tracks become almost unrecognizable,
and yet they approached more and more the farm of the Count, but was
only a short distance more forest, they separate from it.

Only one there was possible that his whole movement was north of him to that city, had to lie
to him but probably closer than Little Rock, perhaps even by the
current Connection easier, but the poor girl's heart was filled yet,
so they wanted to fight against it, with a vague fear, and if they
are also not Give name, knew she urged at last, by her taciturn leader,
the uncanny Feeling scared to see.

"It's so lonely here and be quiet," she finally broke the silence, "and yet we can not be removed
as far more of that farm, which will perform this way.

"

"In an hour you can's from here, at least in this time of year to go," said the Man, "but in
the winter is it further, because the trenches are then filled with
water, and one must Make detours to avoid their filth.

"

"That is Olnitzki has settled so deep in the forest," said the German, almost more to himself
talking to himself as the leader.

"Yes, s' is a little lonely here, at least for a woman," was the reply, "but the man feels more
comfortable under the trees, and me, when shall I admit, however, not fatal to the world than when
I come to a Fenz -. except my own "

"How has Sidonie just endured."

"Is that the name of your sister?"

Asked the hunter, with a bit quieter voice, and his eyes slipped
over the form of strangers out volatile but searchingly.

Yes - you know him, the next neighbor, "said Amalie quickly and somewhat
dismayed?.

"It is customary for us to call the women only after the name of her husband," replied the Hunter,
"even our own, but one I can still have surely heard it once, because
I was more often used together with Olnitzki.

"

? "And now no more" -

"Oh, yes, yes, and then, at least," the man said evasively, "He's just like we others - not
just easy going nature, and holds his gun and dog for the best Company in the world. "

"But the poor woman - she runs at least with their neighbors," asked Amalie?.

"You? - Oh yes - I suppose "- said the hunter -" last winter, she was twice in our , Both here
and my old man there, too, and how her sick child was two years ago and then died, at least
one neighbor of the women is constantly and alternately with her was - she was even then ill
himself, and had but have a care. "

"Dear God sighed, last winter," Amalie quiet and barely audible to himself, and the Forest seemed
extremely weird to rush to his solitude in the desert. She feared also from the moment really to
do one more question, until their leader himself again broke the silence.

"You have not seen her sister for a long time?"

"For ten years."

"A long time ago and we are here."

"Sidonie was still so young as she left the home."

"From happy, calm conditions, said perhaps out" of the hunter, and his eyes it wandered back over
the narrow forest horizon that he was free because, according to Wilde . Auszuspähn

"From the happiest," said the sister, sighed thinking of the time, "Dear God, desire had everything
your heart desires, can, reared in abundance and wealth, it was worn
by the older ones on their hands, and the future would have glänzenste
in their old homeland laughed.

"

"Well," said the hunter, throwing his rifle over his shoulder a little further, and the Tabackssaft
his Priemchens oak splashing against the next - "hm - and Mr. Olnitzki had a lot of money? "

"The Count Olnitzki? - No, "said Amelia," fleeing from Poland, where his people against scattered,
it was confiscated by the Russian Czar, the goods, he was himself to return to his country was cut
off, and those unfortunate brave remained then nothing left to look for in the new world as well
as a new home and establish. "

"But how he got there so quickly, the rich woman?" Asked the practical American, half in disbelief
to shaking his head.

"I do not know if you remember that time," she said, sighing deeply
again Amalie "Do not know if you shared our feelings at that time
in America, but in Germany was it's almost as if a new breath of life
come upon the whole people, and the dreaming Nations have roused from
their sleep.

A cry went through Germany to Poland Districts, not with governments that do not spoil the Nordic giant
wanted but among the nations.

But rather than take up the sword for the threatened, oppressed Neighboring
country were content, the men to organize collections, the wounded
and robbed to bring help, the women plucked lint and bandages, and
sent to the canvas lazaretto, and beaten as the final battle, as the
vast Russian army in the tiny Kingdom with their masses flooded when
Poland crushed, destroyed, under the trampling horses his enemies
were, and the few of his brave warriors who have fought through to
the border, had to enter foreign soil, seeking help, especially since
it was Germany, which to them his Arms, opened the her in his family,
to his hearth, took the sick and wounded cultivated and strengthened,
the poor, supported the vanquished sat up, with comfort and hope and
their own deeds.

Parties, balls and concerts were given sums of money to get together and to give the fugitives travel
money to America, and particularly women and girls competed is to
show their sympathies for the trampled Nationality of the unfortunate.

We carried in the loops of our costumes and ornaments, only the colors of Polish, Polish flags
fluttered in the enlightened party rooms, and many, many of us gave
what they of jewelry and gold ornaments had her willing to exalt the
donation to the brave warrior.

"

"Hm, hm, hm, hm," said the hunter, while shaking his head violently, quickly find the horse
was walking.

"Even in our family," continued Amalie, "we had taken a young noble Poles, of our threshold, shaking
with fever, chill, with a lot of unhealed wounds with torn Uniform, the fall near already entered,
and hardly a camp set up for themselves, as a violent fever threatening his life, and took him
for months to the brink of the grave. Sidonie and I nursed him in time like sisters, more especially
no more of Sidonie his bed, and we had the joy of the unhappy after many moons, the life, Health
returns to see. Finally completely restored, and plenty of everything mistaken what he needed
to such a long journey, wanted my older then dismissed the stranger - But it was too late;
Sidonie heart clung to the stranger, and could - it would not .

Let Father and mother begged and conjured them - nothing, not the poles could more on German
soil being, our German governments feared the displeasure of the
Czar to excite, and with the warm spring air moved over the mountains,
and flows from our Ice freed - with the first ship that sailed the
thawed power - left Sidonie Olnitzkis wife as his father's house.

"

Amalie was silent, and Jack Owen went back quite a long time silent, but quite heavy sigh next
to her horses - at last he said softly:

"But Olnitzki had assets as he entered America."

"My father is wealthy, and did not want the daughter to the uncertainty of a fight for themselves
Existence disclose. "

Jack Owen stopped and looked surprised by the strange and uncertain - he had apparently not quite
understood what she meant by the words.

»Olnitzki has not put his money over from Poland," he asked at last.

"So rich he might have been there," said Amelia, "the war all devoured,
and those noble heart threw not only her life, no All that they called
the earth their own in the shell, to save the country.

"

"Hm, hm, hm, hm hm," said the hunter again, and strode forward quickly, as if he missed the Minutes
must request, but he answered nothing, seemed even more distant every conversation to want
to avoid, and it dealt exclusively with the way that here in the That was still rather rough
and tumble, and his attention was in stock, to break the foreigners only reasonable path. Amalie
felt, however, disturbed by the their conspicuous behavior of the officer drove her horse,
now completely accustomed to the ride, and made audacious by the rolling step of the animal, something
sharper pace with the Whip in, and said, half shyly, half-decided any further uncertainty to an end
make:

"How's my sister - she is happy, and she lives just as we in Germany expected that she would
have to live and should "? -

"Hush," said their leader, but the only answer, and down quickly but gently in the twisted her right
hand, remained the docile, attentive animal as rooted in the ground stand, did not move with the
head, tail or mane, shaking either. The hunters, however, with hand slowly to make, no quick
striking motion, pointing to the front, showed the Strangers who followed the outstretched finger
with his eyes, the slim beautiful figure of a stately stag, which had emerged from a dense
thicket and, no Risk knowing slowly over a small forest clearing over äßte.

Carefully, the hunter took his cap from his head, she let slip noiselessly to the ground, and
a movement of his hand, with a view to the clever beasts commanded
well understood, the dogs to protect the place until he shall return.

Only one of them, Deike, an old scar ragged fellow with a very short tail, and just such abgeschlagenem
ears been supported, just as if his master would not have wanted more from him than was absolutely
necessary, did excluded from the order, and when the hunter now, crouching down and protecting
use of a small bush, quickly but silently through the damp yellow, the floor covering Hardwood glided,
he followed close on his heels, holding, stand when that was, and carefully striding when it
was time for the hunter vorzuschleichen further.
Amalie itself but forgot in the new impression of the hunt, now the
forest with its own hardly unsuspected magic filled for the moment
at least, everything else. This chic, so sure feeling wild and the
wise in the grass depressed dogs, and the lively expressive form the
hunter with the creeping beast at his heels, the horse itself on which
she sat, the anxious faces as the wise head to the soft rustle of
her dress, the noise the powerful top to transit through the far,
far across, the shrill cry of a hawk drowned - They almost instinctively
pressed her right hand on his heart, so loud it was now his Knock
before, and while she feared in anxious concern for the life of the
beautiful beast, The so free and happy there walked through the forest,
they might even hardly breathe, the threatened not to betray the proximity
of the enemy. 

Jack Owen, however, was at that moment only one and
only one hunter to his protegee little thinking that he also surely
knew the animals, he slipped, now the root of a Oak or use sassafras
tree, now as a bush or fallen tree trunk Using protection, but also
not quite right on the game, but something seitab gradually, so that
by some imprudent perhaps made noise attention the shy game not on
the way in holding horse would steered, quickly and quietly on the
ground out from in maybe a hundred yards of his prey. Since buckled
hidden under the foliage dry branch located, and whether the Moccasin
contracted to him, and hunters such as dogs together fell instinctively
where they stood, was the faint sound but penetrated over to the deer,
who had himself just stopped grazing and over listened after the cry
of the falcon. The animals of the wilderness have a language among
themselves that the Man does not understand - to warn a voice and
shout to attract and to drive away, and be sure if even an enemy sex
were the warning.

Once attention has become, Jack Owen also knew
very well that the timid animal would not calm down, to allow further
movement, so that is rapidly raising the rifle, he stressed in the
movement, the eye was looking the fatal spot, the finger twitched
sharply blared the blow through the forest, and how the deer rose
and collapsed, and again into soared and wild movements in the thicket,
went to males who do not longer could hold on from the place where
she crouched, and was followed by howling and kleffend the volatile
plunder. Böcklin that every few years changed his place of residence
is remained upright. In the domain of art were both very special admirer of Rubens, in whose
life's work Germanic better sense of German and Germanic culture received with such a beautiful
Romanesque mix. Jak. Burckhardt, discoverer the Italian Renaissance, considered it but with the
Italians and it was a trade-off He was a Dürer and Grünewald justice. Anders Böcklin, he felt
more and more of the Upper and Lower German 15th and 16 Century attracted. It is no accident
that just before the Green Forest unlike Burckhardt first came into the phenomenon.

But another precious fruit of the year should see the destiny of the museum images. As the "spring
dance", the last and most mature adaptation of the "Greek gods", in Munich arrived, she was
rejected with indignation by Schack. A free photo unparalleled in those days, it has probably only
because of its advantages found contradiction. It is now a principal ornament of the Dresden
Gallery (Plate 27).

Böcklin was by breaking with Jak. isolated Burckhardt in Basel, looking for a residence to another.
That even the friend who in the small town itself has ideas for artists noticed was the Philistine, and
was very pedant, was probably devastating for him, the portrait orders have ceased from that moment
and was then in the artist's family again attributed to the machinations of Burckhardt. Completely
without reason. This has far- suffered heavier than Böcklin under the rupture, and the quiet
all the memories of the Friendship Days stored.