His Majesty remained only ten days at Saint-Cloud, passed two or three of these in Paris at
the opening of the session of the Corps Legislatif, and at noon on the 29th set out a second
time for Bayonne.

The Empress, who to her great chagrin could not accompany the Emperor, sent for me on the morning
of his departure, and renewed in most touching accents the same recommendations which she made
on all his journeys, for the character of the Spaniards made her timid and fearful as to his
safety.

Their parting was sad and painful; for the Empress was exceedingly anxious to accompany him,
and the Emperor had the greatest difficulty in satisfying her, and making her understand that
this was impossible.  Just as he was setting out he returned to his dressing-room a moment,
and told me to unbutton his coat and vest; and I saw the Emperor pass around his neck between
his vest and shirt a black silk ribbon on which was hung a kind of little bag about the size
of a large hazel-nut, covered with black silk.  Though I did not then know what this bag contained,
when he returned to Paris he gave it to me to keep; and I found that this bag had a pleasant
feeling, as under the silk covering was another of skin.  I shall hereafter tell for what purpose
the Emperor wore this bag.

I set out with a sad heart.  The recommendations of her Majesty the Empress, and fears which
I could not throw off, added to the fatigue of these repeated journeys, all conspired to produce
feelings of intense sadness, which was reflected on almost all the countenances of the Imperial
household; while the officers said among themselves that the combats in the North were trifling
compared with those which awaited us in Spain.

We arrived on the 3d of November at the chateau of Marrac, and four days after were at Vittoria
in the midst of the French army, where the Emperor found his brother and a few grandees of
Spain who had not yet deserted his cause.

The arrival of his Majesty electrified the troops; and a part of the enthusiasm manifested,
a very small part it is true, penetrated into the heart of the king, and somewhat renewed his
courage.  They set out almost immediately, in order to at once establish themselves temporarily
at Burgos, which had been seized by main force and pillaged in a few hours, since the inhabitants
had abandoned it, and left to the garrison the task of stopping the French as long as possible.

The Emperor occupied the archiepiscopal palace, a magnificent building situated in a large
square on which the grenadiers of the Imperial Guard bivouacked.  This bivouac presented a
singular scene.  Immense kettles, which had been found in the convents, hung, full of mutton,
poultry, rabbits, etc., above a fire which was replenished from time to time with furniture,
guitars, or mandolins, and around which grenadiers, with pipes in their mouths, were gravely
seated in gilded chairs covered with crimson damask, while they intently watched the kettles
as they simmered, and communicated to each other their conjectures on the campaign which had
just opened.

The Emperor remained ten or twelve days at Burgos, and then gave orders to march on Madrid,
which place could have been reached by way of Valladolid, and the road was indeed safer and
better; but the Emperor wished to seize the Pass of Somo-Sierra, an imposing position with
natural fortifications which had always been regarded as impregnable. This pass, between two
mountain peaks, defended the capital, and was guarded by twelve thousand insurgents, and twelve
pieces of cannon placed so advantageously that they could do as much injury as thirty or forty
elsewhere, and were, in fact, a sufficient obstacle to delay even the most formidable army;
but who could then oppose any hindrance to the march of the Emperor?

