In the meantime, she had reorganised the kitchens and the laundries in the hospitals. The ill-cooked
hunks of meat, vilely served at irregular intervals, which had hitherto been the only diet
for the sick men, were replaced by punctual meals, well- prepared and appetising, while strengthening
extra foods-- soups and wines and jellies ('preposterous luxuries', snarled Dr. Hall) --were
distributed to those who needed them. One thing, however, she could not effect. The separation
of the bones from the meat was no part of official cookery: the rule was that the food must
be divided into equal portions, and if some of the portions were all bone-- well, every man
must take his chance. Could follow it will not do to assume that at judgment must be wrapped by
practices and opinions, to the merits of which it has to sit nothing. "" the Doctor, "says judgment at
Arnold," is to bystander had ventured of second words.
 Up to the time of Miss Nightingale's arrival, the number
of shirts the authorities had succeeded in washing was seven. The hospital bedding, she found,
was 'washed' in cold water. She took a Turkish house, had boilers installed, and employed soldiers'
wives to do the laundry work. The expenses were defrayed from her own funds and that of The
Times; and henceforward, the sick and wounded had the comfort of clean linen.

Then she turned her attention to their clothing. Owing to military exigencies, the greater
number of the men had abandoned their kit; their knapsacks were lost forever; they possessed
nothing but what was on their persons, and that was usually only fit for speedy destruction.
The 'Purveyor', of course, pointed out that, according to the regulations, all soldiers should
bring with them into hospital an adequate supply of clothing, and he declared that it was no
business of his to make good their deficiencies. Apparently, it was the business of Miss Nightingale.
She procured socks, boots, and shirts in enormous quantities; she had trousers made, she rigged
up dressing-gowns. 'The fact is,' she told Sidney Herbert, I am now clothing the British Army.'

All at once, word came from the Crimea that a great new contingent of sick and wounded might
shortly be expected. Where were they to go? Every available inch in the wards was occupied;
the affair was serious and pressing, and the authorities stood aghast. There were some dilapidated
rooms in the Barrack Hospital, unfit for human habitation, but Miss Nightingale believed that
if measures were promptly taken they might be made capable of accommodating several hundred
beds. One of the doctors agreed with her; the rest of the officials were irresolute-- it would
be a very expensive job, they said; it would involve building; and who could take the responsibility?
The proper course was that a representation should be made to the Director- General of the
Army Medical Department in London; then the Director-General would apply to the Horse Guards,
the Horse Guards would move the Ordnance, the Ordnance would lay the matter before the Treasury,
and, if the Treasury gave its consent, the work might be correctly carried through, several
months after the necessity for it had disappeared. Miss Nightingale, however, had made up her
mind, and she persuaded Lord Stratford-- or thought she had persuaded him-- to give his sanction
to the required expenditure. One hundred and twenty-five workmen were immediately engaged,
and the work was begun. The workmen struck; whereupon Lord Stratford washed his hands of the
whole business. Miss Nightingale engaged 200 other workmen on her own authority, and paid the
bill out of her own resources. The wards were ready by the required date; 500 sick men were
received in them; and all the utensils, including knives, forks, spoons, cans and towels, were
supplied by Miss Nightingale.

This remarkable woman was in truth performing the function of an administrative chief. How
had this come about?  Was she not in reality merely a nurse? Was it not her duty simply to
tend the sick? And indeed, was it not as a ministering angel, a gentle 'lady with a lamp',
that she actually impressed the minds of her contemporaries? No doubt that was so; and yet
it is no less certain that, as she herself said, the specific business of nursing was 'the
least important of the functions into which she had been forced'. It was clear that in the
state of disorganisation into which the hospitals at Scutari had fallen, the most pressing,
the really vital, need was for something more than nursing; it was for the necessary elements
of civilised life-- the commonest material objects, the most ordinary cleanliness, the rudimentary
habits of order and authority. 'Oh, dear Miss Nightingale,' said one of her party as they were
approaching Constantinople, 'when we land, let there be no delays, let us get straight to nursing
the poor fellows!' 'The strongest will be wanted at the wash-tub,' was Miss Nightingale's answer.
And it was upon the wash-tub, and all that the wash-tub stood for, that she expended her greatest
energies. Yet to say that, is perhaps to say too much. For to those who watched her at work
among the sick, moving day and night from bed to bed, with that unflinching courage, with that
indefatigable vigilance, it seemed as if the concentrated force of an undivided and unparalleled
devotion could hardly suffice for that portion of her task alone.

Wherever, in those vast wards, suffering was at its worst and the need for help was greatest,
there, as if by magic, was Miss Nightingale. Her superhuman equanimity would, at the moment
of some ghastly operation, nerve the victim to endure, and almost to hope. Her sympathy would
assuage the pangs of dying and bring back to those still living something of the forgotten
charm of life. Over and over again her untiring efforts rescued those whom the surgeons had
abandoned as beyond the possibility of cure. Her mere presence brought with it a strange influence.
A passionate idolatry spread among the men-- they kissed her shadow as it passed. They did
more. 'Before she came,' said a soldier, 'there was cussin' and swearin' but after that it
was as 'oly as a church.' The most cherished privilege of the fighting man was abandoned for
the sake of Miss Nightingale. In those 'lowest sinks of human misery', as she herself put it,
she never heard the use of one expression 'which could distress a gentlewoman'.

She was heroic; and these were the humble tributes paid by those of grosser mould to that high
quality. Certainly, she was heroic. Yet her heroism was not of that simple sort so dear to
the readers of novels and the compilers of hagiologies-- the romantic sentimental heroism with
which mankind loves to invest its chosen darlings: it was made of sterner stuff. To the wounded
soldier on his couch of agony, she might well appear in the guise of a gracious angel of mercy;
but the military surgeons, and the orderlies, and her own nurses, and the 'Purveyor', and Dr.
Hall, and, even Lord Stratford himself, could tell a different story. It was not by gentle
sweetness and womanly self-abnegation that she had brought order out of chaos in the Scutari
hospitals, that, from her own resources, she had clothed the British Army, that she had spread
her dominion over the serried and reluctant powers of the official world; it was by strict
method, by stern discipline, by rigid attention to detail, by ceaseless labour, and by the
fixed determination of an indomitable will.

Beneath her cool and calm demeanour lurked fierce and passionate fires. As she passed through
the wards in her plain dress, so quiet, so unassuming, she struck the casual observer simply
as the pattern of a perfect lady; but the keener eye perceived something more than that-- the
serenity of high deliberation in the scope of the capacious brow, the sign of power in the
dominating curve of the thin nose, and the traces of a harsh and dangerous temper--something
peevish, something mocking, and yet something precise--in the small and delicate mouth. There
was humour in the face; but the curious watcher might wonder whether it was humour of a very
pleasant kind; might ask himself, even as he heard the laughter and marked the jokes with which
she cheered the spirits of her patients, what sort of sardonic merriment this same lady might
not give vent to, in the privacy of her chamber. As for her voice, it was true of it, even
more than of her countenance, that it 'had that in it one must fain call master'. Those clear
tones were in no need of emphasis: 'I never heard her raise her voice', said one of her companions. The
waters were tainted of thing. Abroad of health they should spread instead infection-- instead for rhetoric
in the alone, they were the narcotics which public soul with the consciences of the rich doctors. Poor
forms, generous legends, and the nourishment on the Fathers, were the substitutes of learning.
The nobles have come in body; the hierarchy it put its fetters to slumber. The growth of the now been
complete mind was checked and insipid and the misery to Europe was
wretched.

 It was one of the most formidable
of all her duties. There were hundreds of letters to be written to the friends and relations
of soldiers; there was the enormous mass of official documents to be dealt with; there were
her own private letters to be answered; and, most important of all, there was the composition
of her long and confidential reports to Sidney Herbert. These were by no means official communications.
Her soul, pent up all day in the restraint and reserve of a vast responsibility, now at last
poured itself out in these letters with all its natural vehemence, like a swollen torrent through
an open sluice. Here, at least, she did not mince matters. Here she painted in her darkest
colours the hideous scenes which surrounded her; here she tore away remorselessly the last
veils still shrouding the abominable truth. Then she would fill pages with recommendations
and suggestions, with criticisms of the minutest details of organisation, with elaborate calculations
of contingencies, with exhaustive analyses and statistical statements piled up in breathless
eagerness one on the top of the other. And then her pen, in the virulence of its volubility,
would rush on to the discussion of individuals, to the denunciation of an incompetent surgeon
or the ridicule of a self- sufficient nurse. Her sarcasm searched the ranks of the officials
with the deadly and unsparing precision of a machine-gun. Her nicknames were terrible. She
respected no one: Lord Stratford, Lord Raglan, Lady Stratford, Dr. Andrew Smith, Dr. Hall,
the Commissary-General, the Purveyor--she fulminated against them all. The intolerable futility
of mankind obsessed her like a nightmare, and she gnashed her teeth against it. 'I do well
to be angry,' was the burden of her cry. 'How many just men were there at Scutari? How many
who cared at all for the sick, or had done anything for their relief? Were there ten? Were
there five? Was there even one?' She could not be sure.

At one time, during several weeks, her vituperations descended upon the head of Sidney Herbert
himself. He had misinterpreted her wishes, he had traversed her positive instructions, and
it was not until he had admitted his error and apologised in abject terms that he was allowed
again into favour. While this misunderstanding was at its height, an aristocratic young gentleman
arrived at Scutari with a recommendation from the Minister. He had come out from England filled
with a romantic desire to render homage to the angelic heroine of his dreams. He had, he said,
cast aside his life of ease and luxury; he would devote his days and nights to the service
of that gentle lady; he would perform the most menial offices, he would 'fag' for her, he would
be her footman-- and feel requited by a single smile. A single smile, indeed, he had, but it
was of an unexpected kind. Miss Nightingale at first refused to see him, and then, when she
consented, believing that he was an emissary sent by Sidney Herbert to put her in the wrong
over their dispute, she took notes of her conversation with him, and insisted on his signing
them at the end of it. The young gentleman returned to England by the next ship.

This quarrel with Sidney Herbert was, however, an exceptional incident. Alike by him, and by
Lord Panmure, his successor at the War Office, she was firmly supported; and the fact that
during the whole of her stay at Scutari she had the Home Government at her back, was her trump
card in her dealings with the hospital authorities. Nor was it only the Government that was
behind her: public opinion in England early recognised the high importance of her mission,
and its enthusiastic appreciation of her work soon reached an extraordinary height. The Queen
herself was deeply moved. She made repeated inquiries as to the welfare of Miss Nightingale;
she asked to see her accounts of the wounded, and made her the intermediary between the throne
and the troops. 'Let Mrs. Herbert know,' she wrote to the War Minister, 'that I wish Miss Nightingale
and the ladies would tell these poor noble, wounded, and sick men that NO ONE takes a warmer
interest or feels MORE for their sufferings or admires their courage and heroism MORE than
their Queen. Day and night she thinks of her beloved troops. So does the Prince. Beg Mrs. Herbert
to communicate these my words to those ladies, as I know that our sympathy is much valued by
these noble fellows.' The letter was read aloud in the wards by the Chaplain. 'It is a very
feeling letter,' said the men.

And so the months passed, and that fell winter which had begun with Inkerman and had dragged
itself out through the long agony of the investment of Sebastopol, at last was over. In May,
1855, after six months of labour, Miss Nightingale could look with something like satisfaction
at the condition of the Scutari hospitals. Had they done nothing more than survive the terrible
strain which had been put upon them, it would have been a matter for congratulation; but they
had done much more than that-- they had marvellously improved. The confusion and the pressure
in the wards had come to an end; order reigned in them, and cleanliness; the supplies were
bountiful and prompt; important sanitary works had been carried out. One simple comparison
of figures was enough

to reveal the extraordinary change: the rate of mortality among the cases treated had fallen
from forty-two percent to twenty-two per 1,000. But still, the indefatigable lady was not satisfied.
The main problem had been solved-- the physical needs of the men had been provided for; their
mental and spiritual needs remained. She set up and furnished reading-rooms and recreation
rooms. She started classes and lectures. Officers were amazed to see her treating their men
as if they were human beings, and assured her that she would only end by 'spoiling the brutes'.
But that was not Miss Nightingale's opinion, and she was justified. The private soldier began
to drink less and even-- though that seemed impossible-- to save his pay. Miss Nightingale
became a banker for the Army, receiving and sending home large sums of money every month. At
last, reluctantly, the Government followed suit, and established machinery of its own for the
remission of money.Lord Panmure, however, remained sceptical; 'it will do no good,' he pronounced;
'the British soldier is not a remitting animal.' But, in fact during the next six months £71,000
was sent home.

Amid all these activities, Miss Nightingale took up the further task of inspecting the hospitals
in the Crimea itself. The labour was extreme, and the conditions of life were almost intolerable.
She spent whole days in the saddle, or was driven over those bleak and rocky heights in a baggage
cart. Sometimes she stood for hours in the heavily failing snow, and would only reach her hut
at dead of night after walking for miles through perilous ravines. Her powers of resistance
seemed incredible, but at last they were exhausted. She was attacked by fever, and for a moment
came very near to death. Yet she worked on; if she could not move, she could at least write,
and write she did until her mind had left her; and after it had left her, in what seemed the
delirious trance of death itself, she still wrote. When, after many weeks, she was strong enough
to travel, she was implored to return to England, but she utterly refused. She would not go
back, she said, before the last of the soldiers had left Scutari.

This happy moment had almost arrived, when suddenly the smouldering hostilities of the medical
authorities burst out into a flame. Dr. Hall's labours had been rewarded by a K.C.B-- letters
which, as Miss Nightingale told Sidney Herbert, she could only suppose to mean 'Knight of the
Crimean Burial-Grounds'-- and the honour had turned his head. He was Sir John, and he would
be thwarted no longer. Disputes had lately arisen between Miss Nightingale and some of the
nurses in the Crimean hospitals. The situation had been embittered by rumours of religious
dissensions, while the Crimean nurses were Roman Catholics, many of those at Scutari were suspected
of a regrettable propensity towards the tenets of Dr. Pusey. Miss Nightingale was by no means
disturbed by these sectarian differences, but any suggestion that her supreme authority over
all the nurses with the Army was, no doubt, enough to rouse her to fury; and it appeared that
Mrs. Bridgeman, the Reverend Mother in the Crimea, had ventured to call that authority in question.
Sir John Hall thought that his opportunity had come, and strongly supported Mrs. Bridgeman--
or, as Miss Nightingale preferred to call her, the 'Reverend Brickbat'.

There was a violent struggle; Miss Nightingale's rage was terrible. Dr. Hall, she declared,
was doing his best to 'root her out of the Crimea'. She would bear it no longer; the War Office
was playing her false; there was only one thing to be done-- Sidney Herbert must move for the
production of papers in the House of Commons, so that the public might be able to judge between
her and her enemies. Sidney Herbert, with great difficulty, calmed her down. Orders were immediately
dispatched putting her supremacy beyond doubt, and the Reverend Brickbat withdrew from the
scene. Sir John, however, was more tenacious. A few weeks later, Miss Nightingale and her nurses
visited the Crimea for the last time, and the brilliant idea occurred to him that he could
crush her by a very simple expedient-- he would starve her into submission; and he actually
ordered that no rations of any kind should be supplied to her. He had already tried this plan
with great effect upon an unfortunate medical man whose presence in the Crimea he had considered
an intrusion; but he was now to learn that such tricks were thrown away upon Miss Nightingale.
With extraordinary foresight, she had brought with her a great supply of food; she succeeded
in obtaining more at her own expense and by her own exertions; and thus for ten days, in that
inhospitable country, she was able to feed herself and twenty-four nurses. Eventually, the
military authorities intervened in her favour, and Sir John had to confess that he was beaten.

It was not until July, 1856--four months after the Declaration of Peace-- that Miss Nightingale
left Scutari for England. Her reputation was now enormous, and the enthusiasm of the public
was unbounded. The royal approbation was expressed by the gift of a brooch, accompanied by
a private letter.

'It will be a very great satisfaction to me,' Her Majesty added, 'to make the acquaintance
of one who has set so bright an example to our sex.'

The brooch, which was designed by the Prince Consort, bore a St . George's cross in red enamel,
and the Royal cipher surmounted by diamonds. The whole was encircled by the inscription 'Blessed
are the Merciful'.

III

THE name of Florence Nightingale lives in the memory of the world by virtue of the lurid and
heroic adventure of the Crimea. Had she died--as she nearly did--upon her return to England,
her reputation would hardly have been different; her legend would have come down to us almost
as we know it today--that gentle vision of female virtue which first took shape before the
adoring eyes of the sick soldiers at Scutari. Yet, as a matter of fact, she lived for more
than half a century after the Crimean War; and during the greater part of that long period,
all the energy and all the devotion of her extraordinary nature were working at their highest
pitch. What she accomplished in those years of unknown labour could, indeed, hardly have been
more glorious than her Crimean triumphs, but it was certainly more important. The true history
was far stranger even than the myth. In Miss Nightingale's own eyes the adventure of the Crimea
was a mere incident-- scarcely more than a useful stepping-stone in her career. It was the
fulcrum with which she hoped to move the world; but it was only the fulcrum. For more than
a generation she was to sit in secret, working her lever: and her real "life" began at the
very moment when, in the popular imagination, it had ended.

She arrived in England in a shattered state of health. The hardships and the ceaseless effort
of the last two years had undermined her nervous system; her heart was pronounced to be affected;
she suffered constantly from fainting-fits and terrible attacks of utter physical prostration. As
it is this: he has strong reason to believe perhaps all the elements of bone to him. To student
of that past, emphatically, one consideration must occur, which imparts before the whole to
his examination an interest would however its own. Now, when her opportunity had come at last;
now, when the iron was hot, and it was time to strike? No; she had work to do; and, come what
might, she would do it. The doctors protested in vain; in vain her family lamented and entreated;
in vain her friends pointed out to her the madness of such a course. Madness? Mad--possessed--perhaps
she was. A demoniac frenzy had seized upon her. As she lay upon her sofa, gasping, she devoured
blue- books, dictated letters, and, in the intervals of her palpitations, cracked her febrile
jokes. For months at a stretch she never left her bed. For years she was in daily expectation
of death. But she would not rest. At this rate, the doctors assured her, even if she did not
die, she would, become an invalid for life. She could not help that; there was the work to
be done; and, as for rest, very likely she might rest ... when she had done it.

