The Winged Men of Orcon

       A Complete Novelette

          By David R. Sparks

 Far out at the edge of the Universe
    two scientists play a game of
      wits--Earth to the winner.

CHAPTER I

The Wrecked Space-Ship

When I came to, it was dark; so dark that the night seemed all but fluid with black pigment.
Breathing was difficult, but in spite of that, however, I felt exhilarated mentally. Also I
felt strong, stronger than I ever had in my life before. I tried to raise my hands, and found
that I was handcuffed.

I lay sprawled out on a sharply canted floor of metal, and from outside the house, or whatever
it was I was in, I could hear the screeching and howling of the wind. I touched my face with
my fettered hands, and the act gave me a feeling of comfort, for the scar on my cheek was still
there and I knew that I was myself.

Twisting around, I sat up, and with great difficulty drew a lighter from my trousers pocket.
The flame glimmered up. I knew then that I was lying in the control room of a great flying machine!

All about me I saw crumpled human forms clad in glistening gray flying jumpers. It was very,
very hot. I thought I caught the sound of waves crashing on a shore. Through a broken port
blustered a hot wind laden with an odd odor suggestive of garlic and kelp. It was just as dark
outside as in. I stirred about a bit, and found that I was in good shape except for the handcuffs.

A low moan came from behind a bulkhead door at one end of the control room. I listened, and
again the sound was repeated. With the lighter still flickering in my hands, I got to my feet.
The bulkhead door was jammed, but I found a heavy telargeium spanner-wrench on the floor, and
with a strength which frightened me--a strength which could have come only by some upset condition
of gravitation--I soon crashed the door open. I had no sooner done it, however, than I forgot
about the moan which had fetched me.

                   *       *       *       *       *

What I saw first, hanging on a hook on one wall, was a bunch of keys, one of which readily
opened the lock of my handcuffs. Then there was a long-barrelled, gleaming atomic gun, undamaged,
and a couple of the new cold-ray flashlights. Free, I caught up one of the flashlights, and
placed back on their hook the keys which had opened the cuffs. Then I stooped over each corpse,
and confirmed my first impression that two of the dead men were strangers to me, but that I
half recognized one.

The vaguely familiar man was clad, under his gray jumper, in the uniform of a rear admiral
of the U. S. W. Upper Zone Patrol Division. He wore a medal of high honor, the Calypsus medal.
I knew that he was Wellington Forbes, the man who had defeated the planet Calypsus three years
before.

Wellington Forbes! And I with him!

I think I may be excused my temporary forgetfulness of the moan which had brought me to Forbes'
death chamber. Uppermost in my mind was the manner in which I had been brought here. For it
was he, approaching me through the medium of letters and messengers, who had begged, implored
me to help him against Orcon, the eccentric planet of my own discovery, the planet which belonged
to a solar system at the other end of the Universe from ours. Because of my knowledge of Orcon,
with its bubbling seas, its brooding nightmares, and lastly, its queer conduct toward Earth,
he had wanted to take me away from my telescopes to fight. And I had refused.

Now I understood how I came to be here.

I knew that this dead man had kidnapped me after drugging me with one of the new amnesiacs.
Yorildiside, I reckoned it. And just because I knew that Admiral Forbes had seized me by force,
I knew almost to a certainty that I was shipwrecked on that very Orcon which I had discovered
two years before.

                   *       *       *       *       *

I was enraged at this high-handed treatment. For if danger was indeed threatening Earth from
Orcon, my place of all places was at my telescopes. I could do with them, for the civilizations
about me, what no one else could. Too, I was actuated by selfish motives. I loved my telescopes
and my isodermic super-spectroscopes. And there was still much work I had to do! Already I
had discovered three new elements, and that had showed me I was but at the beginning of a knowledge
of cosmological chemistry. Forbes! He had brought me by force out here on this beastly little
planet whose orbit was like that of a snake with the Saint Vitus' dance! He had taken me to
this wretched planet which lay at such a remote end of the Universe that not even explorers
had been tempted to visit it!

"Oh, damn the whole business!" I groaned aloud. I was thoroughly angry and bitter.

In a little while I experienced a sudden change of mood. I'd no sooner spoken than a moan came
from directly behind me, and I remembered why I'd got going in the beginning, and was ashamed.
I entered a small compartment which opened from Forbes' cabin, and discovered immediately three
more people.

The strides I had taken made me realize that I had to be careful, for I was indeed endowed
with a terrific strength--an extraordinary strength and lightness. One of these three new people
was obviously dead, for his neck was broken. The other two still breathed. The first of the
two was a short man, a Japanese by the look of him. His arm was broken. The other person was,
to my surprise, a woman. She, like the dead Forbes, wore the insignia of the U. S. W. Upper
Zone Patrol. Her insignia was that of a navigating officer.

So it was she who had caused the crash!

It was also she who had moaned. My feelings as I lifted her to a bunk were mixed. Being a reactionary,
I still felt that woman's place was not in the Army or Navy. Yet I confess that the woman--or
girl, rather--was ornamental. She was of the Iberian type. She was beautiful, and looked helpless.
Some atavistic trait of the protective instinct in man made me take a little more pains in
caring for her than I might have taken with a man.

                   *       *       *       *       *

"Doctor Weeks," were the first surprised words she murmured when I had bandaged a cut in her
head and she came to.

Weeks being my name--Frederick Weeks--I grunted and wondered just how much she'd had to do
with my being here. I noted that the eyes were gray with violet lights.

"You were handcuffed and drugged," she announced wonderingly.

"I was," I answered, "but I'm not any more. Thanks to my own efforts."

She dropped that subject.

"Take me to Admiral Forbes, Doctor Weeks. I am Captain Virginia Crane."

I acknowledged curtly her introduction of herself and told her the admiral was dead. Her cheeks,
already pale, grew white. I asked her the number of the space flyer's crew. She said ten. So
far, four were dead, three alive, including myself, and the rest unaccounted for, I told her.
She winced. In a moment, though, she pulled herself together with a grit which I could not
deny, despite my disapproval of her being here.

"I suppose you wonder why you're here," she said suddenly, "and where we are."

"I don't need to be told where I am," I said coldly, "but a little information as to who was
responsible for my coming to Orcon wouldn't be amiss. I suppose it was Forbes."

She cut me off with a look.

"It wasn't the admiral." Her really beautiful eyes narrowed. "It was I who planned your abduction
and got him to execute it."

"You!"

I drew back. My manner was formal and cold.

And after that I guess I pretty well boiled over. But did it gain me anything? Before I had
said half enough to soothe my lacerated feelings, the girl simply shrugged and looked bored.

"Don't be a fool," she ordered curtly. "We needed you, and I, for one, was not going to see
your egotistical ideas about an unimportant piece of work--your cosmological chemistry--jeopardize
the safety of the world. Oh, I know the government wanted you in your laboratory. But with
Ludwig Leider loose on Orcon, and you the only one in our Zone who knew much of anything about
the planet, what could you expect?"

                   *       *       *       *       *

I hardly know what might have happened between us if she had not mentioned Leider's name when
she did. The insults with which she had begun had hardly been atoned for by her half understanding
of my refusal to join Forbes, and I was still in a rage. Yet, as it was, at the mention of
Leider I snapped to attention.

"Ludwig Leider! Here?"

"Yes," she replied significantly.

"But that makes a difference! Why wasn't I told? Why this silly kidnapping?"

She moved a little on the couch and looked at me.

"There was not time to tell you and to chance putting up with further silly arguments on your
part. When the secret service detail which had been handling the Leider case brought in word
of his whereabouts, there was time only to get a ship specially outfitted for such a tremendous
journey and start. We had to kidnap you."

I hardly heard her last words. Ludwig Leider--scientist extraordinary, renegade, terrorist.
Everyone of our latter day century knew that he was the greatest example of the megalomaniac--the
power-seeking genius--which the human race had produced for decades. Everyone knew that he--furious
because he had been denied the high position he craved as ruler for life of the united peoples
of Earth--had been the leader of the interplanetary struggle which had resulted in Forbes'
brilliantly successful attack on Calypsus. And everyone knew that he had escaped from Calypsus.
And that, while he was free, there could be no real safety anywhere, either for Earth, which
he hated, or any of its allied planets. Leider, here! No wonder I had been observing queer
goings on in Orcon!

                   *       *       *       *       *

Somehow I forgot to be angry with poor dead Forbes. Almost I forgot to disapprove of the woman.

"See here!" I broke out. "If your secret service detail was right, and Leider is on Orcon,
we've got to stop talking and get going. Tell me more about your expedition."

"Do you know," she said presently, "I rather thought you would make quite a leader--and fighter--if
you could ever be aroused. As for the expedition, we have only this one ship. It's that kind
of a job."

"Oh, suicide party, eh?"

I ignored her remark about my ability as a fighter. I had never aspired to any sort of naval
or military leadership.

"Yes," she answered; "suicide party. And I suppose, with our ship wrecked, our admiral dead,
and contact with Leider not even made as yet, it's become doubly so. But we've got to do something."

She leaned forward on the couch.

"Our primary objective," she went on, "was to reach Orcon and scout, and then radio information
back to Earth. But we also have two tons of the new explosive, kotomite, aboard and are to
do damage if we can. What are you going to do, Doctor? The command is yours now."

I was well enough versed in the upper space tactics of our modern navy to appreciate the wisdom
which had been used in sending the one ship alone on the expedition, and I could well understand
the reasonable hope of success which had been promised. I confess I was staggered to know what
could be done, however, now that the admiral was dead and the ship wrecked. As for my having
inherited the command, I was even more disconcerted.

"I don't know what we're going to do," I said in answer to Captain Crane's question. "I doubt
if Forbes would know, if he were alive, and I'm by no means the commander he was. But, as you
say, we have to do something. So, since it's a little early in the game to explode the kotomite
and call it a day's work, we better declare a truce between ourselves, and then check up on
the ship. Come on, if you're able."

She was able.

                   *       *       *       *       *

In the next twenty minutes we found that it was the forward end of the great flier which was
damaged, and that while she was in fair shape amidships and astern, she would never fly again.
We discovered that the three unaccounted-for men of the crew were lying forward, and found
that two were dead and one lived--a radio man named LeConte. He had two ribs broken. Half a
dozen atomic guns remained to us, and we found intact one dynamo capable of generating the
new cold light in considerable quantities. It was not an encouraging check-up, though. Out
of a crew of ten, only the four of us were alive; Captain Crane, the Jap, LeConte, and myself.
And all of us were more or less battered. The ship was still habitable, but smashed beyond
hope of repair. Around us stretched Orcon--in the control of Ludwig Leider.

I got LeConte, the radio man with the broken ribs, into the small cabin where the Jap still
lay and made him comfortable. Then I set the Jap's broken arm. I gave both him and LeConte
an injection of penopalatrin in order that their shattered bones might be decently knitted
in two or three hours. The Jap presently came to, and I found that he was a civilian like myself,
but one who had long been employed on the U. S. W. research staff as a ray and explosive expert.
I realized at once that he was the inventor of the kotomite with which the ship was loaded.

All of them, including Captain Crane, told me the story of the crash. Captain Crane hadn't
been responsible, after all. Their magnogravitos system had failed in some mysterious manner
as they approached Orcon. In spite of the checking effect of their helium pontoons, which had
expanded properly when they had come into Orcon's atmosphere, they had slammed into a sea of
light and crashed. That was all anyone knew. But everyone suspected that Leider had been somehow
responsible.

"I do not enjoy the prospect," Koto said after a glance at his temporarily helpless left arm.
"If Leider is able to wreck a space ship before she ever reaches his planet, he has more power
than he ever had during the Calypsus war."

                   *       *       *       *       *

I said nothing, but simply looked at LeConte, and nodded approval when he muttered something
about getting his sending set in shape, if that were possible. We were sitting in the small
cabin and Captain Crane was searching my face with those discomforting, violet-lighted gray
eyes. I knew she was asking me once more what I was going to do, and I knew that, except that
we might fire the kotomite, I could tell her nothing.

We sat on in silence. Then, however, before I spoke about the kotomite, a change came.

All at once I felt the space flier tremble under me. It rocked gently over on one side and
began to move. Slowly, but definitely.

Koto and I were on our feet in a flash. Captain Crane stiffened and faced me, waiting.

"What is it?" Koto gasped.

"We'll find out what it is," I flung back. "Miss Crane--Captain--on deck with you. Here, Koto,
a hand with one of the guns. We'll take it up out of the hatchway and through the main cabin."

LeConte, I knew, was the one we must be careful of, with his cracked ribs.

"Get to your apparatus," I ordered him, "and stay with it until you get through to Earth."

With that I jumped into the main cabin, stepped over Forbes' lifeless body, and caught hold
of the nearest of the atomic guns. I was to be a leader, after all.

CHAPTER II

The Cable of Menace

It was dark when we gained the deck; as dark as it had been when I first regained consciousness.
Captain Crane was attending to that problem, however. As Koto and I floundered with the gun
on the slippery telargeium plates of the outer hull, I heard her moving about. Then she uttered
a cry of relief, and there came a faint click. Instantly the darkness all about--the clinging
noisome darkness of Orcon at night--was shattered.

The blessed rays of our one good lighting dynamo were loosed!

I saw the girl standing braced beside a stanchion, staring over the ship's side.

"Come on, Koto!" I snapped.

I am no fighting man by trade. Nevertheless, there was a kind of instinct which told me to
get the gun set up at any point of vantage along the ship's side. And Koto understood.

"There," he breathed after but a few seconds, and from the experienced way in which he touched
the disintegration-release trigger with his one good hand, I knew we were ready.

The flier was still moving, slowly and smoothly. She seemed to be half lifted, half drawn by
some colossal force. I leaned far out over the rail.

A long, slender, but apparently indestructible cable had been affixed to our stern by means
of a metal plate at its end which I guessed to be magnetic. I saw that the cable vanished under
lashing waves which broke on a not distant shore, and that we were being drawn irresistibly
toward the waves.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The light from the deck brought out dazzling scintillations from a beach composed of gigantic
crystal pebbles as large as ostrich eggs. On the beach and grouped thickly all about our hull,
swarmed a legion of creatures which--

Well, they were the brood of Orcon. They were the creatures who had given Ludwig Leider refuge
and allied themselves with him in his attempt to make trouble for Earth. And they were half-bird,
half-human! Their faces, bodies, arms, and legs were human. But they had wings! Translucent,
membranous structures, almost gauzy, which stretched out from their shoulders like bat's wings.
And their skins, as they surged about in the beams of our light, gleamed a bright orange color,
and about their heads waved frilled antennae which were evidently used as extra tactile organs
to supplement the human hands. I could see instantly that the Orconites possessed a high degree
of intelligence. Of all the queer breeds that interplanetary travel and exploration had produced,
this was the queerest.

I swung to Koto, who was crouching beside the gun.

"Get rid of that cable before we go under!" I exclaimed.

I had already guessed that the plate which held the cable to our stern was magnetic. It was
easy to see that the cable had been fastened there by the Orconites and that our ship and ourselves
might be drawn to destruction. I flung myself over to Koto's side to help him with the gun.

The howling wind which had been at a lull as we reached the deck, broke loose again, and, as
a gust hit us, Koto, gun, and I were all but swept overboard. The winged legion overside gave
loud cries and braced themselves against the gusts. I saw Virginia Crane clinging desperately
to her stanchion beside the light switches.

"More light if you have it!" I screamed to her against the wind.

Then Koto and I got the gun going.

                   *       *       *       *       *

My first feeling was one of intense relief. As the thing went off under our hands, and I knew
from a faint trembling and a low hiss that the weapon was functioning perfectly, I felt thankful
indeed for the instinct which had made me get the gun on deck. It could be only a matter of
seconds now until a whole section of the metallic cable was disintegrated completely and until
our ship was free.

Breathlessly I watched the greenish atomic stream play along the bright length of the cable
of death, and, as Koto and I steadied the gun together, I knew he shared my relief. Despite
the howling of the wind, the yells of the Orconites, the continued slow movement of the ship,
and the hideous churning of the waves astern, I laughed to myself.

"Doctor Weeks!"

I saw that Captain Crane had gone aft to watch the effects of our fire.

"All right," I bellowed. "What--"

"Nothing is happening back here! Your gun! What's the matter with it?"

I was too startled to answer otherwise than I did.

"Nothing's the matter with it. What's the matter with you?"

But the next instant I knew she was right.

"My God, Doctor!" Koto cried, and I knew he had leaped to the same conclusion I had.

Suddenly I brushed Koto's hands away from the gun, and myself directed it so that its ray cut
straight across one whole group of the queer creatures on the beach. Then I cursed.

Instead of being cut down, broken like so many blades of grass, not one of the creatures showed
that the ray had touched them at all. They only uttered tremendous hoarse sounds that might
have been laughter.

I stood up.

"Koto, Leider's found means of protecting both raw materials and living beings against the
atomic gun!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

Captain Crane was beside us now, and I saw that she did not need to be told of the disaster.
As Koto turned away from the gun, I thought of LeConte below. When the waves closed in on us,
he would be caught like a rat.

The shriek of the wind and the crash of waves grew louder. I felt upon my face the sting of
spray from the aqueous solution of which the lashing sea at our stern was composed. The cable
held, and the ship continued to move. We were barely a hundred yards away from the shore.

All at once, though, a string of both chemical and physical formulae--the last thing a man
would expect to think of in such a position--flashed into my mind.

"Here, wait a minute," I thought. "If Leider's done this thing, it means--it must mean--that
he's juggled his atomic structures through production in terrific quantities of the quondarium
light which I theorized about last year! But he can't have done that without playing hell with
the action of magnetic forces from beginning to end! I believe if we take the gun aft and direct
it at--"

That was as far as I got with forming words. I flung myself toward the gun and began to drag
it to a position aft, where we might direct its ray full force, at close range, against the
magnetic metal plate which held the cable to our stern.

"Help me!" I yelled at the others.

Koto was the first to close in. Struggling, slipping, hampered rather than helped by our great
strength, we clawed our way aft. A combined lurch of ship and blast of wind threw Captain Crane
down, but she staggered up.

We dropped the gun with a thump at a spot where the bulging curve of the stern swelled directly
under the muzzle. I grabbed at the trigger just as a new surge of movement brought the flier
perilously close to a great, inrushing wall of water which was not water. Koto's face was drawn,
and Virginia Crane was staring in horrified fascination at the gun.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Again came the faint trembling of the beautifully constructed mechanism. The green ray leaped
out across the blinding whiteness of our light rays. I jammed the muzzle down until the whole
force of the atomic stream was spouting against the magnetic plate which held the cable to
our stern.

"Look, Doctor! Look!" Captain Crane cried.

But I was already looking.

For an instant a flash of blue light played about our ship. There was a single sharp, crackling
sound; and, ringing in the night, an echoing, high-pitched twang.

Koto let out a shout. I took my hands away from the gun.

Backward the twanging cable snapped, demolishing with one touch a score of the clustering Orconites.
Into the waves it snapped, and our ship, ceasing to move, came to rest upon the glittering
pebbles of the beach.

I heaved a deep sigh.

"What came to me a moment ago," I said breathlessly to the others, "was the idea that when
atomic structures are so juggled that they are no longer affected by the gun, all the forces
of magnetism, which usually are immune to the atomic stream, are rendered liable to disruption
by it. We could not destroy Leider's cable, but we could play the deuce with its magnetic grip
on us."

Koto was looking at me wide-eyed, and I saw that his interest was as keen as my own. Even Virginia
Crane, scientist though she was not, was interested.

We were in no position, however, to sit still and think. The waves astern and the howling wind
were subsiding noticeably, but the inhabitants of Orcon all about us were still creating a
great hubbub. Our next obvious move, regardless of what they might do, was to get hold of one
of them and make him talk.

                   *       *       *       *       *

After a gesture to Koto and Captain Crane to stay where they were, I ran to a spot on the deck
where I had seen a permanent ladder fixed to the side of the ship. Three jumps took me down
to the beach, and three more took me into the very midst of the mob.

The confusion brought about by the destruction of the score or so of Orconites by the flying
cable, and by our unexpected salvation, all worked for me. And another thing worked for me, too.

These people had great intelligence, but they seemed like sheep when it came to a question
of physical, hand to hand encounter. Of rough and tumble fighting with fists they knew nothing--as
indeed not many people do in this century, even on Earth. The result of it all was that they
shrank back when I charged into them, and not a blow was struck, even when I caught up the
nearest figure in my path, swung it over my shoulder, and tore back to the ladder. In two shakes
I was standing on the deck again, my prisoner all safe.

"What a creature!" Virginia Crane cried as I presented her and Koto with my struggling but
helpless prize.

That was just what I had thought after my first glimpse of the whole brood of them. Close inspection
showed, as I had supposed, that the Orconite was a man, and yet not a man. The body, the limbs,
the enormous head, the features of the orange-colored face were human; and the chap began to
spout excited sounds which were certainly the words of intelligent speech. But also he was
winged, and from the orange forehead waved those curious, frilled feelers!

                   *       *       *       *       *

He was clad in a single loose garment of woven cloth which permitted free action for both limbs
and wings. A small, flat black box with a mouthpiece into which he could speak, was strapped
to his chest in such a position that it was almost concealed by the folds of his blouse. We
were to find out presently the purpose of this instrument, but I did not examine it carefully
then. As the creature glared balefully at us from his intelligent dark eyes, I glanced over
the side of the ship to see whether trouble was to be expected from his fellows.

And for the moment they surged about so much, and made so much noise, that I thought trouble
might come. The shouting, however, was caused by their dismay at all that had happened to them,
and I saw that instead of making ready to attack they were preparing a retreat. We had whipped
them temporarily.

We had thrown them into such disorder, indeed, that in another moment a whole force of them
gave proof of their ability to fly, by taking off from the beach. Up and out they swept, out
into the intense blackness which overhung the sea behind us. In another moment the whole crew
had vanished, and I was glad enough of it.

"Come on below," I said to my two companions. "There's no telling how long Leider will keep
his hands off us, and we've got to find out from our prisoner whatever we can."

With that I turned to the companionway, lugging the winged man, and the others followed.

CHAPTER III

In the Grip of Ludwig Leider

Once we were below, LeConte joined us from the radio room. After taking a swift look at our
prisoner, and listening to our account of what had happened above, he reported that the radio
had been put out of commission by the crash but could be repaired. All of us then held a hasty
conference and decided that since no one was badly in need of rest, LeConte would return to
his sending set, Koto would keep a deck watch, and Captain Crane and I would see what we could
learn from the prisoner.

From the start it had been certain that the Orconite's strength was not to be compared to our
earthly powers. Therefore I made no attempt to bind him, but simply shoved him into a seat
in the main cabin of the flier--the room in which Forbes' body still lay--and began to try
to make him talk.

I knew that Leider must have some way of communicating with his allies, and I was determined
that if he could, I could. But it was uphill work. The creature closed his mouth, assumed a
sullen look, and sat tight. He knew what I was after--that I could tell by the expression of
his face--but he met with stolid silence all of my attempts to address him in such languages
as I knew of Earth and our allied planets. I got nowhere, until, in a manner as sudden as it
was unexpected, something happened which ended the deadlock.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The way it happened was this. As LeConte, working in the radio room close off the main saloon,
completed a connection which had been broken, he called to us that he was making progress,
and a moment later we heard the click of his sending key and the shrill squeal of a powerful
electric arc breaking across the transmission points of his set. I realized at once that this
did not mean that the set was wholly in order, for the pitch of the squealing arc was too high
and too sharp, but I did know that there was hope of establishing communication with Earth
soon. And, too, I realized another thing.

The moment that shrill, squealing sound impinged upon the Orconite's ears, he jumped and uttered
a cry of pain. There was something about his nervous organism that could not stand these sounds!

"LeConte," I shouted, "close your key again!"

After that the battle was won. By the time I had explained to LeConte why I had given him the
order, and he had filled the cabin two or three times with the screech, the Orconite was ready
to speak. He trembled in his seat. His mouth twisted with pain, and a look of agony seared
his eyes. He burst into fluent Orconese speech. Then he made a swift pass with one hand at
the black box on his chest, touched a switch there, and began to rattle his Orconese into the
mouthpiece.

The result--well, one might have known that Leider would have found some ingenious means of
making the difficult speech of Orcon easy. Out of the small instrument into which our prisoner
spoke his hard, rattling words, came a flood of pure German.

An instrument for translating spoken Orconese into spoken German. That was what the little box was.

"Shut the accursed transmission set off!" came from the box in a clear German which I understood
readily. "I will talk. Ask what you want to know. I cannot stand this!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

His face still contorted, the Orconese touched a second switch on the box, and indicated that
I was to speak at the instrument. I did so, in German. The result was an instant translation
into the prisoner's own tongue.

The rest was easy.

"What is your name?" was my first question.

"Hargrib."

"What were you and your people trying to do to us with the cable you hitched to our stern?"
I asked next.

"Destroy you."

