Up, and to the office, where all the morning busy.  Then to Westminster Hall, and there met
Sir W. Pen, who labours to have his answer to his impeachment, and sent down from the Lords'
House, read by the House of Commons; but they are so busy on other matters, that he cannot,
and thereby will, as he believes, by design, be prevented from going to sea this year.  Thence
by water, not being able to get a coach, nor boat but a sculler, and that with company, is
being so foul a day, to the Old Swan, and so home, and there spent the evening, making Balty
read to me, and so to supper and to bed.

2nd.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon with Lord Brouncker in his coach as far
as the Temple, and there 'light and to Hercules Pillars, and there dined, and thence to the
Duke of York's playhouse, at a little past twelve, to get a good place in the pit, against
the new play, and there setting a poor man to keep my place, I out, and spent an hour at Martin's,
my bookseller's, and so back again, where I find the house quite full.  But I had my place,
and by and by the King comes and the Duke of York; and then the play begins, called "The Sullen
Lovers; or, The Impertinents," having many good humours in it, but the play tedious, and no
design at all in it.  But a little boy, for a farce, do dance Polichinelli, the best that ever
anything was done in the world, by all men's report: most pleased with that, beyond anything
in the world, and much beyond all the play.  Thence to the King's house to see Knepp, but the
play done; and so I took a hackney alone, and to the park, and there spent the evening, and
to the lodge, and drank new milk.  And so home to the Office, ended my letters, and, to spare
my eyes, home, and played on my pipes, and so to bed.

3rd (Lord's day).  At noon comes Mr. Mills and his wife, and Mr. Turner and his wife, by invitation
to dinner, and we were mighty merry, and a very pretty dinner, of my Bridget and Nell's dressing,
very handsome.  After dinner to church again  .  .  .  .  But he is a good man, a good seaman,
and stout.  Thence Pen and I to Islington, and there, at the old house, eat, and drank, and
merry, and there by chance giving two pretty fat boys each of them a cake, they proved to be
Captain Holland's children, whom therefore I pity.  So round by Hackney home, having good discourse,
he [Pen] being very open to me in his talk, how the King ought to dissolve this Parliament,
when the Bill of Money is passed, they being never likely to give him more; how he [the King]
hath great opportunity of making himself popular by stopping this Act against Conventicles;
and how my Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, if the Parliament continue, will undoubtedly fall, he
having managed that place with so much self-seeking, and disorder, and pleasure, and some great
men are designing to overthrow [him], as, among the rest, my Lord Orrery; and that this will
try the King mightily, he being a firm friend to my Lord Lieutenant.  So home; and to supper
a little, and then to bed, having stepped, after I come home, to Alderman Backewell's about
business, and there talked a while with him and his wife, a fine woman of the country, and
how they had bought an estate at Buckeworth, within four mile of Brampton.

4th.  Up betimes, and by water to Charing Cross, and so to W. Coventry, and there talked a
little with him, and thence over the Park to White Hall, and there did a little business at
the Treasury, and so to the Duke, and there present Balty to the Duke of York and a letter
from the Board to him about him, and the Duke of York is mightily pleased with him, and I doubt
not his continuance in employment, which I am glad of. Thence with Sir H. Cholmly to Westminster
Hall talking, and he crying mightily out of the power the House of Lords usurps in this business
of the East India Company.  Thence away home and there did business, and so to dinner, my sister
Michell and I, and thence to the Duke of York's house, and there saw "The Impertinents" again,
and with less pleasure than before, it being but a very contemptible play, though there are
many little witty expressions in it; and the pit did generally say that of it. Thence, going
out, Mrs. Pierce called me from the gallery, and there I took her and Mrs. Corbet by coach
up and down, and took up Captain Rolt in the street; and at last, it being too late to go to
the Park, I carried them to the Beare in Drury Lane, and there did treat them with a dish of
mackrell, the first I have seen this year, and another dish, and mighty merry; and so carried
her home, and thence home myself, well pleased with this evening's pleasure, and so to bed.

5th.  Up, and all the morning at the office. Thence to walk in the Hall, and there hear that
Mrs. Martin's child, my god-daughter, is dead, and so by water to the Old Swan, and thence
home, and there a little at Sir W. Pen's, and so to bed.

6th.  Up, and to the office, and thence to White Hall, but come too late to see the Duke of
York, with whom my business was, and so to Westminster Hall, where met with several people
and talked with them, and among other things understand that my Lord St. John is meant by Mr.
Woodcocke, in "The Impertinents."

        ["Whilst Positive walks, like Woodcock in the park,
          Contriving projects with a brewer's clerk."

     Andrew Marvell's "Instructions to a Painter," part iii., to which is
     subjoined the following note: "Sir Robert Howard, and Sir William
     Bucknell, the brewer."--Works, ed.  by Capt.  E. Thompson, vol.
     iii., p. 405.--B.]

Here met with Mrs. Washington, my old acquaintance of the Hall, whose husband has a place in
the Excise at Windsor, and it seems lives well. I have not seen her these 8 or 9 years, and
she begins to grow old, I perceive, visibly.  So time do alter, and do doubtless the like in
myself. This morning the House is upon the City Bill, and they say hath passed it, though I
am sorry that I did not think to put somebody in mind of moving for the churches to be allotted
according to the convenience of the people, and not to gratify this Bishop, or that College.
Thence by water to the New Exchange, where bought a pair of shoe-strings, and so to Mr. Pierces,
where invited, and there was Knepp and Mrs. Foster and here dined, but a poor, sluttish dinner,
as usual, and so I could not be heartily merry at it: here saw her girl's picture, but it is
mighty far short of her boy's, and not like her neither;  but it makes Hales's picture of her
boy appear a good picture.  Thence to White Hall, walked with Brisband, who dined there also,
and thence I back to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The Virgin Martyr," and heard the
musick that I like so well, and intended to have seen Knepp, but I let her alone; and having
there done, went to Mrs. Pierces back again, where she was, and there I found her on a pallet
in the dark .  .  .  ,  that is Knepp.

7th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and thither I
sent for Mercer to dine with me, and after dinner she and I called Mrs. Turner, and I carried
them to the Duke of York's house, and there saw "The Man's the Master," which proves, upon
my seeing it again, a very good play.  But, Lord!  their confidence! and how many men do hover
about them as soon as they come off the stage, and how confident they are in their talk!  Here
I did kiss the pretty woman newly come, called Pegg, that was Sir Charles Sidly's mistress,
a mighty pretty woman, and seems, but is not, modest.  Here took up Knepp into our coach, and
all of us with her to her lodgings, and thither comes Bannister with a song of hers, that he
hath set in Sir Charles Sidly's play for her, which is, I think, but very meanly set; but this
he did, before us, teach her, and it being but a slight, silly, short ayre, she learnt it presently.
But I did get him to prick me down the notes of the Echo in "The Tempest," which pleases me
mightily.  Here was also Haynes, the incomparable dancer of the King's house, and a seeming
civil man, and sings pretty well, and they gone, we abroad to Marrowbone, and there walked
in the garden, the first time I ever was there; and a pretty place it is, and here we eat and
drank and stayed till 9 at night, and so home by moonshine .  .  .  .  And so set Mrs. Knepp
at her lodging, and so the rest, and I home talking with a great deal of pleasure, and so home
to bed.

8th.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning.

9th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning we sat.

     [This "odd case" was that of Thomas Skinner and the East India
     Company.  According to Ralph, the Commons had ordered Skinner, the
     plaintiff, into the custody of the Serjeant-at-Arms, and the Lords
     did the same by Sir Samuel Barnadiston, deputy-governor of the
     company, as likewise Sir Andrew Rickard, Mr. Rowland Gwynn, and Mr.
     Christopher Boone.--B.]

Thence I to the Rose Taverne in Covent Garden, and there sent for a pullet and dined all alone,
being to meet Sir W. Pen, who by and by come, and he and I into the King's house, and there
"The Mayd's Tragedy," a good play, but Knepp not there; and my head and eyes out of order,
the first from my drinking wine at dinner, and the other from my much work in the morning.
Thence parted, and I towards the New Exchange and there bought a pair of black silk stockings
at the hosier's that hath the very pretty woman to his wife, about ten doors on this side of
the 'Change, and she is indeed very pretty, but I think a notable talking woman by what I heard
to others there.  Thence to Westminster Hall, where I hear the Lords are up, but what they
have done I know not, and so walked toward White Hall and thence by water to the Tower, and
so home and there to my letters, and so to Sir W. Pen's; and there did talk with Mrs. Lowther,
who is very kind to me, more than usual, and I will make use of it.  She begins to draw very
well, and I think do as well, if not better, than my wife, if it be true that she do it herself,
what she shews me, and so to bed, and my head akeing all night with the wine I drank to-day,
and my eyes ill.  So lay long, my head pretty well in the morning.

10th (Lord's day).  Up, and to the office, there to do, business till church time, when Mr.
Shepley, newly come to town, come to see me, and we had some discourse of all matters, and
particularly of my Lord Sandwich's concernments, and here did by the by as he would seem tell
me that my Lady--[Lady Sandwich.]--had it in her thoughts, if she had occasion, to, borrow
L100 of me, which I did not declare any opposition to, though I doubt it will be so much lost.
But, however, I will not deny my Lady, if she ask it, whatever comes of it, though it be lost;
but shall be glad that it is no bigger sum.  And yet it vexes me though, and the more because
it brings into my head some apprehensions what trouble I may here after be brought to when
my Lord comes home, if he should ask me to come into bonds with him, as I fear he will have
occasions to make money, but I hope I shall have the wit to deny it.  He being gone, I to church,
and so home, and there comes W. Hewer and Balty, and by and by I sent for Mercer to come and
dine with me, and pretty merry, and after dinner I fell to teach her "Canite Jehovae," which
she did a great part presently, and so she away, and I to church, and from church home with
my Lady Pen; and, after being there an hour or so talking, I took her, and Mrs. Lowther, and
old Mrs. Whistler, her mother-in-law, by water with great pleasure as far as Chelsy, and so
back to Spring Garden, at Fox-hall, and there walked, and eat, and drank, and so to water again,
and set down the old woman at home at Durham Yard:' and it raining all the way, it troubled
us; but, however, my cloak kept us all dry, and so home, and at the Tower wharf there we did
send for a pair of old shoes for Mrs. Lowther, and there I did pull the others off and put
them on, elle being peu shy, but do speak con mighty kindness to me that she would desire me
pour su mari if it were to be done .  .  .  .  .  Here staid a little at Sir W. Pen's, who
was gone to bed, it being about eleven at night, and so I home to bed.

11th.  Up, and to my office, where alone all the morning.  About noon comes to me my cousin
Sarah, and my aunt Livett, newly come out of Gloucestershire, good woman, and come to see me;
I took them home, and made them drink, but they would not stay dinner, I being alone.  But
here they tell me that they hear that this day Kate Joyce was to be married to a man called
Hollingshed, whom she indeed did once tell me of, and desired me to enquire after him.  But,
whatever she said of his being rich, I do fear, by her doing this without my advice, it is
not as it ought to be; but, as she brews, let her bake.  They being gone, I to dinner with
Balty and his wife, who is come to town to-day from Deptford to see us, and after dinner I
out and took a coach, and called Mercer, and she and I to the Duke of York's playhouse, and
there saw "The Tempest," and between two acts, I went out to Mr. Harris, and got him to repeat
to me the words of the Echo, while I writ them down, having tried in the play to have wrote
them; but, when I had done it, having done it without looking upon my paper, I find I could
not read the blacklead. But now I have got the words clear, and, in going in thither, had the
pleasure to see the actors in their several dresses, especially the seamen and monster, which
were very droll: so into the play again.  But there happened one thing which vexed me, which
is, that the orange-woman did come in the pit, and challenge me for twelve oranges, which she
delivered by my order at a late play, at night, to give to some ladies in a box, which was
wholly untrue, but yet she swore it to be true.  But, however, I did deny it, and did not pay
her; but, for quiet, did buy 4s. worth of oranges of her, at 6d. a-piece. Here I saw first
my Lord Ormond since his coming from Ireland, which is now about eight days.  After the play
done, I took Mercer by water to Spring Garden; and there with great pleasure walked, and eat,
and drank, and sang, making people come about us, to hear us, and two little children of one
of our neighbours that happened to be there, did come into our arbour, and we made them dance
prettily.  So by water, with great pleasure, down to the Bridge, and there landed, and took
water again on the other side; and so to the Tower, and I saw her home, I myself home to my
chamber, and by and by to bed.

12th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat, and sat all the morning.  At noon to dinner at
home, and after dinner, where Creed dined with me, he and I, by water to the Temple, where
we parted, and I both to the King's and Duke of York's playhouses, and there went through the
houses to see what faces I could spy that I knew, and meeting none, I away by coach to my house,
and then to Mrs. Mercer's, where I met with her two daughters, and a pretty-lady I never knew
yet, one Mrs. Susan Gayet, a very pretty black lady, that speaks French well, and is a Catholick,
and merchant's daughter, by us, and here was also Mrs. Anne Jones, and after sitting and talking
a little, I took them out, and carried them through Hackney to Kingsland, and there walked
to Sir G. Whitmore's house, where I have not been many a day; and so to the old house at Islington,
and eat, and drank, and sang, and mighty merry; and so by moonshine with infinite pleasure
home, and there sang again in Mercer's garden.  And so parted, I having there seen a mummy
in a merchant's warehouse there, all the middle of the man or woman's body, black and hard.
I never saw any before, and, therefore, it pleased me much, though an ill sight; and he did
give me a little bit, and a bone of an arme, I suppose, and so home, and there to bed.

13th.  Up, and by water to White Hall, and so to Sir H. Cholmly's, who not being up I made
a short visit to Sir W. Coventry, and he and I through the Park to White Hall, and thence I
back into the Park, and there met Sir H. Cholmly, and he and I to Sir Stephen Fox's, where
we met and considered the business of the Excise, how far it is charged in reference to the
payment of the Guards and Tangier.  Thence he and I walked to Westminster Hall and there took
a turn, it being holyday, and so back again, and I to the mercer's, and my tailor's about a
stuff suit that I am going to make.  So thence, after Council, having drunk some of the King's
wine and water with Mr. Chevins, my Lord Brouncker, and some others, I by water to the Old
Swan, and there to Michell's, and did see her and drink there, but he being there je ne baiser
la; and so back again by water to Spring Garden all alone, and walked a little, and so back
again home, and there a little to my viall, and so to bed, Mrs. Turner having sat and supped
with me.

14th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and at noon home to dinner with
my people, but did not stay to dine out with them, but rose and straight by water to the Temple,
and so to Penny's, my tailor's, where by and by by agreement Mercer, and she, to my great content,
brings Mrs. Gayet, and I carried them to the King's house; but, coming too soon, we out again
to the Rose taverne, and there I did give them a tankard of cool drink, the weather being very
hot, and then into the playhouse again, and there saw "The Country Captain," a very dull play,
that did give us no content, and besides, little company there, which made it very unpleasing.
Thence to the waterside, at Strand bridge, and so up by water and to Fox-hall, where we walked
a great while, and pleased mightily with the pleasure thereof, and the company there, and then
in, and eat and drank, and then out again and walked, and it beginning to be dark, we to a
corner and sang, that everybody got about us to hear us; and so home, where I saw them both
at their doors, and, full of the content of this afternoon's pleasure, I home and to walk in
the garden a little, and so home to bed.

15th.  Up, and betimes to White Hall, and there met with Sir H. Cholmly at Sir Stephen Fox's,
and there was also the Cofferer, and we did there consider about our money and the condition
of the Excise, and after much dispute agreed upon a state thereof and the manner of our future
course of payments.  Thence I to my Lord Brouncker's, at Mrs. Williams's, and there dined,
and she did shew me her closet, which I was sorry to see, for fear of her expecting something
from me; and here she took notice of my wife's not once coming to see her, which I am glad
of; for she shall not--a prating, vain, idle woman.  Thence with Lord Brouncker to Loriners'-hall,

     [The Loriners, or Lorimers (bit-makers), of London are by reputation
     an ancient mistery, but they were first incorporated by letters
     patent of 10 Queen Anne (December 3rd, 1711).  Their small hall was
     at the corner of Basinghall Street in London Wall.  And we 'light at the Temple, and there parted; and I to the
King's house, and there saw the last act of "The Committee," thinking to
have seen Knepp there, but she did not act.  And so to my bookseller's,
and there carried home some books-among others, "Dr. Wilkins's Reall
Character," and thence to Mrs. Turner's, and there went and sat, and she
showed me her house from top to bottom, which I had not seen before, very
handsome, and here supped, and so home, and got Mercer, and she and I in
the garden singing till ten at night, and so home to a little supper, and
then parted, with great content, and to bed.  The Duchesse of Monmouth's
hip is, I hear, now set again, after much pain.

16th.  Up; and to the Office, where we sat all the morning; and at noon, home with my people
to dinner; and thence to the Office all the afternoon, till, my eyes weary, I did go forth
by coach to the King's playhouse, and there saw the best part of "The Sea Voyage," where Knepp
I see do her part of sorrow very well.  I afterwards to her house; but she did not come presently
home; and there je did kiss her ancilla, which is so mighty belle; and I to my tailor's, and
to buy me a belt for my new suit against to-morrow; and so home, and there to my Office, and
afterwards late walking in the garden; and so home to supper, and to bed, after Nell's cutting
of my hair close, the weather being very hot.  But, Lord! to hear what an excellent base this
younger brother of W. Howe's sings, even to my astonishment, and mighty pleasant. By and by
Gayet goes away, being a Catholick, to her devotions, and Mercer to church; but we continuing
an hour or two singing, and so parted; and I to Sir W. Pen's, and there sent for a hackney-coach;
and he and she [Lady Pen] and I out, to take the gyre.  We went to Stepney, and there stopped
at the Trinity House, he to talk with the servants there against to-morrow, which is a great
day for the choice of a new Master, and thence to Mile End, and there eat and drank, and so
home; and I supped with them--that is, eat some butter and radishes, which is my excuse for
not eating any other of their victuals, which I hate, because of their sluttery: and so home,
and made my boy read to me part of Dr. Wilkins's new book of the "Real Character;" and so to bed.

18th.  Up, and to my office, where most of the morning doing business and seeing my window-frames
new painted, and then I out by coach to my Lord Bellasses, at his new house by my late Lord
Treasurer's, and there met him and Mr. Sherwin, Auditor Beale, and Creed, about my Lord's accounts,
and here my Lord shewed me his new house, which, indeed, is mighty noble, and good pictures--indeed,
not one bad one in it.  And which made it the worse was, that there never was worse musick
played--that is, worse things composed, which made me and Captain Rolt, who happened to sit
near me, mad.  So away thence, very little satisfied with the play, but pleased with my company.
I carried them to Kensington, to the Grotto, and there we sang, to my great content, only vexed,
in going in, to see a son of Sir Heneage Finch's beating of a poor little dog to death, letting
it lie in so much pain that made me mad to see it, till, by and by, the servants of the house
chiding of their young master, one of them come with a thong, and killed the dog outright presently.
Thence to Westminster palace, and there took boat and to Fox Hall, where we walked, and eat,
and drank, and sang, and very merry.  But I find Mrs. Horsfield one of the veriest citizen's
wives in the world, so full of little silly talk, and now and then a little sillily bawdy,
that I believe if you had her sola a man might hazer all with her.  So back by water to Westminster
Palace, and there got a coach which carried us as far as the Minorys, and there some thing
of the traces broke, and we forced to 'light, and walked to Mrs. Horsfield's house, it being
a long and bad way, and dark, and having there put her in a doors, her husband being in bed,
we left her and so back to our coach, where the coachman had put it in order, but could not
find his whip in the dark a great while, which made us stay long.  At last getting a neighbour
to hold a candle out of their window Mercer found it, and so away we home at almost 12 at night,
and setting them both at their homes, I home and to bed.

19th.  Up, and called on Mr. Pierce, who tells me that after all this ado Ward is come to town,
and hath appeared to the Commissioners of Accounts and given such answers as he thinks will
do every body right, and let the world see that their great expectations and jealousies have
been vain in this matter of the prizes.  The Commissioners were mighty inquisitive whether
he was not instructed by letters or otherwise from hence from my Lord Sandwich's friends what
to say and do, and particularly from me, which he did wholly deny, as it was true, I not knowing
the man that I know of.  He gone, I to the office, where we sat all the morning, Sir W. Pen
sick of the gout comes not out. After dinner at home, to White Hall, it being a very rainy
day, and there a Committee for Tangier, where I was mightily pleased to see Sir W. Coventry
fall upon my Lord Bellasses' business of the 3d. in every piece of it which he would get to
himself, making the King pay 4s. 9d, while he puts them off for 4s. 6d., so that Sir W. Coventry
continues still the same man for the King's good.  But here Creed did vex me with saying that
I ought first to have my account past by the Commissioners of Tangier before in the Exchequer.
Thence W. Coventry and I in the Matted gallery, and there he did talk very well to me about
the way to save the credit of the officers of the Navy, and their places too, by making use
of this interval of Parliament to be found to be mending of matters in the Navy, and that nothing
but this will do it, and gives an instance in themselves of the Treasury, whereof himself and
Sir John Duncombe all the world knows have enemies, and my Lord Ashly a man obnoxious to most,
and Sir Thomas Clifford one that as a man suddenly rising and a creature of my Lord Arlington's
hath enemies enough (none of them being otherwise but the Duke of Albemarle), yet with all
this fault they hear nothing of the business of the Treasury, but all well spoken of there.
He is for the removal of Sir John Minnes, thinking that thereby the world will see a greater
change in the hands than now they do; and I will endeavour it, and endeavour to do some good
in the office also.  So home by coach, and to the office, where ended my letters, and then
home, and there got Balty to read to me out of Sorbiere's Observations in his Voyage into England,
and then to bed.

20th. Having done there, I met with Sir Richard Browne, and he took me to dinner with him to
a new tavern, above Charing Cross, where some clients of his did give him a good dinner, and
good company; among others, one Bovy, a solicitor, and lawyer and merchant all together, who
hath travelled very much, did talk some things well; but only he is a "Sir Positive:" but the
talk of their travels over the Alps very fine.  Thence walked to the King's playhouse, and
saw "The Mulberry Garden" again, and cannot be reconciled to it, but only to find here and
there an independent sentence of wit, and that is all.  Here met with Creed; and took him to
Hales's, and there saw the beginnings of Harris's head which he draws for me, which I do not
yet like.  So he and I down to the New Exchange, and there cheapened ribbands for my wife,
and so down to the Whey house and drank some and eat some curds, which did by and by make my
belly ake mightily.  So he and I to White Hall, and walked over the Park to the Mulberry-Garden,

     [On the site of the present Buckingham Palace and gardens.
     Originally a garden of mulberry trees, planted by James I. in 1609
     with the intention of cultivating the manufacture of English silks.]

where I never was before; and find it a very silly place, worse than Spring-garden, and but
little company, and those a rascally, whoring, roguing sort of people, only a wilderness here,
that is somewhat pretty, but rude.  Did not stay to drink, but walked an hour and so away to
Charing Cross, and there took coach and away home, in my way going into Bishopsgate Street,
to bespeak places for myself and boy to go to Cambridge in the coach this week, and so to Brampton,
to see my wife.  So home, and to supper and to bed.

21st. Which God prevent!  Thence after dinner I by coach to the Temple, and there bought a
new book of songs set to musique by one Smith of Oxford, some songs of Mr. Cowley's, and so
to Westminster, and there to walk a little in the Hall, and so to Mrs. Martin's, and there
did hazer cet que je voudrai mit her, and drank and sat most of the afternoon with her and
her sister, and here she promises me her fine starling, which was the King's, and speaks finely,
which I shall be glad of, and so walked to the Temple, meeting in the street with my cozen
Alcocke, the young man, that is a good sober youth, I have not seen these four or five years,
newly come to town to look for employment: but I cannot serve him, though I think he deserves
well, and so I took coach and home to my business, and in the evening took Mrs. Turner and
Mercer out to Mile End and drank, and then home, and sang; and eat a dish of greene pease,
the first I have seen this year, given me by Mr. Gibson, extraordinary young and pretty, and
so saw them at home, and so home to bed.  Sir W. Pen continues ill of the gout.

22nd.  Up, and all the morning at the office busy.  At noon home with my people to dinner,
where good discourse and merry.  After dinner comes Mr. Martin, the purser, and brings me his
wife's starling, which was formerly the King's bird, that do speak and whistle finely, which
I am mighty proud of and shall take pleasure in it.  Thence to the Duke of York's house to
a play, and saw Sir Martin Marr-all, where the house is full; and though I have seen it, I
think, ten times, yet the pleasure I have is yet as great as ever, and is undoubtedly the best
comedy ever was wrote.  So from the office home to supper, and betimes to bed.

23rd.  Up by four o'clock; and, getting my things ready, and recommending the care of my house
to W. Hewer, I with my boy Tom, whom I take with me, to the Bull, in Bishopsgate Street, and
there, about six, took coach, he and I, and a gentleman and his man, there being another coach
also, with as many more, I think, in it; and so away to Bishop's Stafford, and there dined,
and changed horses and coach, at Mrs. Aynsworth's; but I took no knowledge of her.  Here the
gentleman and I to dinner, and in comes Captain Forster, an acquaintance of his, he that do
belong to my Lord Anglesey, who had been at the late horse-races at Newmarket, where the King
now is, and says that they had fair weather there yesterday, though we here, and at London,
had nothing but rain, insomuch that the ways are mighty full of water, so as hardly to be passed.
Here I hear Mrs. Aynsworth is going to live at London: but I believe will be mistaken in it;
for it will be found better for her to be chief where she is, than to have little to do at
London.  There being many finer than she there. After dinner away again and come to Cambridge,
after much bad way, about nine at night; and there, at the Rose, I met my father's horses,
with a man, staying for me.  But it is so late, and the waters so deep, that I durst not go
to-night; but after supper to bed; and there lay very ill, by reason of some drunken scholars
making a noise all night, and vexed for fear that the horses should not be taken up from grass,
time enough for the morning.  Well pleased all this journey with the conversation of him that
went with me, who I think is a lawyer, and lives about Lynne, but his name I did not ask.

24th (Lord's day).  I up, at between two and three in the morning, and, calling up my boy,
and father's boy, we set out by three o'clock, it being high day; end so through the water
with very good success, though very deep almost all the way, and got to Brampton, where most
of them in bed, and so I weary up to my wife's chamber, whom I find in bed, and pretended a
little not well, and indeed she hath those upon her, but fell to talk and mightily pleased
both of us, and upgot the rest, Betty Turner and Willet and Jane, all whom I was glad to see,
and very merry, and got me ready in my new stuff clothes that I send down before me, and so
my wife and they got ready too, while I to my father, poor man, and walked with him up and
down the house--it raining a little, and the waters all over Portholme and the meadows, so
as no pleasure abroad.  Here I saw my brothers and sister Jackson, she growing fat, and, since
being married, I think looks comelier than before: but a mighty pert woman she is, and I think
proud, he keeping her mighty handsome, and they say mighty fond, and are going shortly to live
at Ellington of themselves, and will keep malting, and grazing of cattle.  At noon comes Mr.
Phillips and dines with us, and a pretty odd-humoured man he seems to be; but good withal,
but of mighty great methods in his eating and drinking, and will not kiss a woman since his
wife's death.  After supper, where very merry, we to bed, myself very weary and to sleep all night.

25th.  Waked betimes, and lay long .  .  .  .  and there fell to talking, and by and by rose,
it being the first fair day, and yet not quite fair, that we have had some time, and so up,
and to walk with my father again in the garden, consulting what to do with him and this house
when Pall and her husband go away; and I think it will be to let it, and he go live with her,
though I am against letting the house for any long time, because of having it to retire to,
ourselves.  So I do intend to think more of it before I resolve.  But I was mightily pleased
to come in this condition to see and ask, and thence, giving the fellow something, away walked
to Chesterton, to see our old walk, and there into the Church, the bells ringing, and saw the
place I used to sit in, and so to the ferry, and ferried over to the other side, and walked
with great pleasure, the river being mighty high by Barnewell Abbey: and so by Jesus College
to the town, and so to our quarters, and to supper, and then to bed, being very weary and sleepy
and mightily pleased with this night's walk.

26th.  Up by four o'clock; and by the time we were ready, and had eat, we were called to the
coach, where about six o'clock we set out, there being a man and two women of one company,
ordinary people, and one lady alone, that is tolerably handsome, but mighty well spoken, whom
I took great pleasure in talking to, and did get her to read aloud in a book she was reading,
in the coach, being the King's Meditations;--[The meditations on death, and prayers used by
Charles I. shortly before his execution]--and then the boy and I to sing, and so about noon
come to Bishop's Stafford, to another house than what we were at the other day, and better
used.  So home, where we find all well, and brother Balty and his wife looking to the house,
she mighty fine, in a new gold-laced 'just a cour'. I shifted myself, and so to see Mrs. Turner,
and Mercer appearing over the way, called her in, and sat and talked, and then home to my house
by and by, and there supped and talked mighty merry, and then broke up and to bed, being a
little vexed at what W. Hewer tells me Sir John Shaw did this day in my absence say at the
Board, complaining of my doing of him injury and the board permitting it, whereas they had
more reason to except against his attributing that to me alone which I could not do but with
their condent and direction, it being to very good service to the King, and which I shall be
proud to have imputed to me alone.  The King I hear come to town last night.

27th. Thence by coach to the Exchange, and there met with Sir H. Cholmly at Colvill's; and
there did give him some orders, and so home, and there to the office again, where busy till
two o'clock, and then with Sir D. Gawden to his house, with my Lord Brouncker and Sir J. Minnes,
to dinner, where we dined very well, and much good company, among others, a Dr., a fat man,
whom by face I know, as one that uses to sit in our church, that after dinner did take me out,
and walked together, who told me that he had now newly entered himself into Orders, in the
decay of the Church, and did think it his duty so to do, thereby to do his part toward the
support and reformation thereof; and spoke very soberly, and said that just about the same
age Dr. Donne did enter into Orders.  I find him a sober gentleman, and a man that hath seen
much of the world, and I think may do good. Thence I by coach to my tailor's, there to direct
about the making of me another suit, and so to White Hall, and through St. James's Park to
St. James's, thinking to have met with Mr. Wren, but could not, and so homeward toward the
New Exchange, and meeting Mr. Creed he and I to drink some whey at the whey-house, and so into
the 'Change and took a walk or two, and so home, and there vexed at my boy's being out of doors
till ten at night, but it was upon my brother Jackson's business, and so I was the less displeased,
and then made the boy to read to me out of Dr. Wilkins his "Real Character," and particularly
about Noah's arke, where he do give a very good account thereof, shewing how few the number
of the several species of beasts and fowls were that were to be in the arke, and that there
was room enough for them and their food and dung, which do please me mightily and is much beyond
what ever I heard of the subject, and so to bed.

28th.  Up, to set right some little matters of my Tangier accounts, and so to the office, where
busy all the morning, and then home with my people to dinner, and after dinner comes about
a petition for a poor woman whose-ticket she would get paid, and so talked a little and did
baiser her, and so to the office, being pleased that this morning my bookseller brings me home
Marcennus's book of musick,' which costs me L3 2s.; but is a very fine book.  So to the office
and did some business, and then by coach to the New Exchange, and there by agreement at my
bookseller's shop met Mercer and Gayet, and took them by water, first to one of the Neat-houses,
where walked in the garden, but nothing but a bottle of wine to be had, though pleased with
seeing the garden; and so to Fox Hall, where with great pleasure we walked, and then to the
upper end of the further retired walk, and there sat and sang, and brought great many gallants
and fine people about us, and, upon the bench, we did by and by eat and drink what we had,
and very merry: and so with much pleasure to the Old Swan, and walked with them home, and there
left them, and so I home to my business at the office a little, and so to bed.

29th.  Thence home, whither, by agreement, by and by comes Mercer and Gayet, and two gentlemen
with them, Mr. Monteith and Pelham, the former a swaggering young handsome gentleman, the latter
a sober citizen merchant.  Both sing, but the latter with great skill-the other, no skill,
but a good voice, and a good basse, but used to sing only tavern tunes; and so I spent all
this evening till eleven at night singing with them, till I was tired of them, because of the
swaggering fellow with the base, though the girl Mercer did mightily commend him before to
me.  This night je had agreed par' alter at Deptford, there par' avoir lain con the moher de
Bagwell, but this company did hinder me.

30th.  Thence to Mr. Pierces, and there saw Knepp also, and were merry;
and here saw my little Lady Katherine Montagu come to town, about her
eyes, which are sore, and they think the King's evil, poor, pretty lady.
Here I was freed from a fear that Knepp was angry or might take advantage
to declare the essay that je did the other day, quand je was con her
.  .  .  The woman here alluded to
     was a procuress well known in her day, and described in the "Tatler"
     (No. 84) as "the celebrated Madam Bennet."  We further learn, from
     the "Spectator" (No. 266), that she was the Lady B. to whom
     Wycherley addressed his ironical dedication of "The Plain Dealer,"
     which is considered as a masterpiece of raillery.  Thence set
Rolt and some of [them] at the New Exchange, and so I home, and my
business being done at the office, I to bed.

31st (Lord's day).  Up, and to church in the morning.  At noon I sent for Mr. Mills and his
wife and daughter to dine, and they dined with me, and W. Hewer, and very good company, I being
in good humour.  They gone to church, comes Mr. Tempest, and he and I sang a psalm or two,
and so parted, and I by water to the New Exchange, and there to Mrs. Pierces, where Knepp,
and she, and W. Howe, and Mr. Pierce, and little Betty, over to Fox Hall, and there walked
and supped with great pleasure. Here was Mrs. Manuel also, and mighty good company, and good
mirth in making W. Howe spend his six or seven shillings, and so they called him altogether
"Cully."  So back, and at Somerset-stairs do understand that a boy is newly drowned, washing
himself there, and they cannot find his body.  So seeing them home, I home by water, W. Howe
going with me, and after some talk he lay at my house, and all to bed. My Lady Castlemayne
is, it seems, now mightily out of request, the King coming little to her, and thus she mighty
melancholy and discontented.

