There has ever prevailed among men a vague notion that scientific knowledge differs in nature
from ordinary knowledge. By the Greeks, with whom Mathematics--literally things learnt--was
alone considered as knowledge proper, the distinction must have been strongly felt; and it
has ever since maintained itself in the general mind. Though, considering the contrast between
the achievements of science and those of daily unmethodic thinking, it is not surprising that
such a distinction has been assumed; yet it needs but to rise a little above the common point
of view, to see that no such distinction can really exist: or that at best, it is but a superficial
distinction. The same faculties are employed in both cases; and in both cases their mode of
operation is fundamentally the same.

If we say that science is organised knowledge, we are met by the truth that all knowledge is
organised in a greater or less degree--that the commonest actions of the household and the
field presuppose facts colligated, inferences drawn, results expected; and that the general
success of these actions proves the data by which they were guided to have been correctly put
together. If, again, we say that science is prevision--is a seeing beforehand--is a knowing
in what times, places, combinations, or sequences, specified phenomena will be found; we are
yet obliged to confess that the definition includes much that is utterly foreign to science
in its ordinary acceptation. For example, a child's knowledge of an apple. This, as far as
it goes, consists in previsions. When a child sees a certain form and colours, it knows that
if it puts out its hand it will have certain impressions of resistance, and roundness, and
smoothness; and if it bites, a certain taste. And manifestly its general acquaintance with
surrounding objects is of like nature--is made up of facts concerning them, so grouped as that
any part of a group being perceived, the existence of the other facts included in it is foreseen.

If, once more, we say that science is exact prevision, we still fail to establish the supposed
difference. Not only do we find that much of what we call science is not exact, and that some
of it, as physiology, can never become exact; but we find further, that many of the previsions
constituting the common stock alike of wise and ignorant, are exact. That an unsupported body
will fall; that a lighted candle will go out when immersed in water; that ice will melt when
thrown on the fire--these, and many like predictions relating to the familiar properties of
things have as high a degree of accuracy as predictions are capable of. It is true that the
results predicated are of a very general character; but it is none the less true that they
are rigorously correct as far as they go: and this is all that is requisite to fulfil the definition.
There is perfect accordance between the anticipated phenomena and the actual ones; and no more
than this can be said of the highest achievements of the sciences specially characterised as exact.

