Mamm' Margarid thereupon addressed the young men: "The fight ends the moment I lower my distaff."

"These children are feasting you at their best, friend guest," said Joel to the stranger; "you
will, in turn, have to feast them by telling them and all of us some of the marvelous things
that you have seen in your travels."

"I could not do else than pay in my best coin for your hospitality, friend," answered the stranger.
"I shall tell you the stories."

"Let's hurry, brother Julyan," said Armel; "I have a strong desire to hear the traveler. I
can never get tired of listening to stories, but the story-tellers are rare around Karnak."

"You see, friend," said Joel, "with what impatience your stories are awaited. But before starting,
and so as to give you strength, you shall presently drink to the victor with good wine of Gaul,"
and turning to his son: "Guilhern, fetch in the little keg of white wine from Beziers that
your brother Albinik brought us on his last trip; fill up the cup in honor of the traveler."

When that was done, Joel said to Julyan and Armel:

"Now, boys, fall to with your sabres!"

CHAPTER III.

ARMEL AND JULYAN.

The numerous family of Joel, gathered in a semi-circle at one end of the spacious hall, impatiently
awaited the combat, with Mamm' Margarid holding the place of honor. The stranger stood at her
right, her husband at her left, and two of the smallest children before her on their knees.
Margarid raised her distaff and gave the signal for the combat to begin; the lowering of the
distaff was to be the signal for the combat to end.

Julyan and Armel stripped down to the waist, preserving their breeches only. Again they clasped
hands. Each thereupon slung on his left arm a buckler of wood covered with seal-skin, armed
himself with a heavy sabre of copper, and impetuously assailed each other, being all the more
spurred by the presence of the stranger, before whom they were eager to display their skill
and valor. Joel's guest looked more highly delighted than anyone else at the spectacle before
him, and his face lighted with warlike animation.

Julyan and Armel were at it. Their eyes sparkled, not with hatred but with foolhardiness. They
exchanged no words of anger but of friendly cheer, all the while dealing out terrible blows
that would have been deadly had they not been skillfully parried. At every thrust, brilliantly
made, or dexterously avoided, the men, women and children in the audience clapped their hands,
and according as the combat ran, cried:

"Her ... her ... Julyan!"

"Her ... her ... Armel!"

Such was the effect of these cries, of the sight of the combat, of the clash of arms, that
the huge mastiff Deber-Trud, the man-eater, felt the ardor of battle seize also himself, and
barked wildly looking up at his master, who calmed and caressed him with his hand.

Perspiration covered the young bodies of the handsome and robust Julyan and Armel. Each other's
peers in courage, vigor and agility, neither had yet wounded the other.

"Let's hurry, brother Julyan!" said Armel rushing on his companion with fresh impetus. "Let
us hurry to hear the pretty stories of the stranger."

"The plow can go no faster than the plowman, brother Armel," answered Julyan.

With these words, Julyan seized his sabre with both hands, stretched himself at full length,
and dealt so furious a stroke to his adversary that, although the latter threw himself back
and thereby softened the blow, his buckler flew into splinters and the weapon struck Armel
in the temple. The wounded man staggered for an instant and then fell flat upon his back, amid
the admiring cries of "Her ... her ... Julyan!" from the enraptured by-standers among whom
Stumpy was the loudest with the cry of "Her ... her!"

After lowering her distaff as a sign that the combat was over Mamm' Margarid stepped toward
the wounded combatant to give him her attention, while Joel said to his guest, reaching him
the cup:

"Friend guest, you shall drink this old wine to the triumph of Julyan."

"I drink to the triumph of Julyan and also to the valiant defeat of Armel!" responded the stranger.
"The courage of the vanquished youth equals that of the vanquisher.... I have seen many a combat,
but never have I seen greater bravery and courage displayed! Glory to the family of Joel!...
Glory to your tribe!"

"Formerly," said Joel, "these festive combats took place among us almost every day. Now they
are rarer; they have been replaced by wrestling matches; but sabre combats better recall the
habits of the old Gauls."

Mamm' Margarid shook her head after a second inspection of the wound, while Julyan steadying
himself against the wall sought to hold up his friend. One of the young women hurried with
a casket of lint and salves, in which was also a little vial of mistletoe water. Armel's wound
bled copiously; it was staunched with difficulty; the wounded youth's face was pale and his
eyes closed.

"Brother Armel," said Julyan to him in a cheerful voice, on his knees beside the prostrate
Armel, "do not break down for so little.... Each has his day and his hour.... To-day you were
wounded, to-morrow will be my turn.... We fought bravely.... The stranger will not forget the
young men of Karnak and of the family of Joel, the brenn of the tribe."

His face down, his forehead bathed in cold perspiration, Armel seemed not to hear the voice
of his friend. Mamm' Margarid again shook her head, ordered some burnt coal, that was brought
her on a little flat stone and threw on it some of the pulverized mistletoe bark. A strong
vapor rose from the little brasier, and Mamm' Margarid made Armel inhale it. A little after
he opened his eyes, looked around as if he awoke from a dream, and said feebly:

"The angel of death calls me.... I shall now live no longer here but yonder.... My father and
mother will be surprised and pleased to see me so soon.... I also shall be happy to meet them."

A second later he added regretfully:

"How I would have liked to hear the pretty stories of the traveler!"

"What, brother Armel!" said Julyan, visibly astonished and grieved. "Are you to depart so soon
from us? We were enjoying life so well together.... We swore brotherhood and never to leave
each other!"

"We did so swear, Julyan," Armel answered feebly, "but it is otherwise decreed."

Julyan dropped his head upon his two hands and made no answer.

Mamm' Margarid, skillful in the art of tending wounds, an art that she learned from a druid
priestess her relative, placed her hand on Armel's heart. A few seconds later she said to those
near her and who, together with Joel and his guest, stood around:

"Teutates calls Armel away to take him to those who have preceded us. He will soon depart.
If any of us has any message for the loved ones who have preceded us yonder, and wishes Armel
to carry it--let him make haste."

Mamm' Margarid thereupon kissed the forehead of the dying young man and said to him: "Give
to all the members of our family the kiss of remembrance and hope."

"I shall give them, Mamm' Margarid, the kiss of remembrance and hope in your name," answered
Armel in a fainting voice, and added again in a pet, "and yet I would so much have liked to
hear the pretty stories of the traveler!"

These words seemed deeply to affect Julyan, who still holding his friend's head looked down
upon him with sadness.

Little Sylvest, the son of Guilhern, a child of rosy cheeks and golden hair, who held with
one hand the hand of his mother Henory, advanced a little and addressing the dying relative said:

"I loved little Alanik very much; he went away last year.... Tell him that little Sylvest always
remembers him, and embrace him for me, Armel."

