Sweet pliability of man's spirit, that can at once surrender itself to illusions, which cheat
expectation and sorrow of their weary moments!--Long,--long since had ye number'd out my days,
had I not trod so great a part of them upon this enchanted ground.  When my way is too rough
for my feet, or too steep for my strength, I get off it, to some smooth velvet path, which
Fancy has scattered over with rosebuds of delights; and having taken a few turns in it, come
back strengthened and refresh'd.--When evils press sore upon me, and there is no retreat from
them in this world, then I take a new course;--I leave it,--and as I have a clearer idea of
the Elysian fields than I have of heaven, I force myself, like AEneas, into them.--I see him
meet the pensive shade of his forsaken Dido, and wish to recognise it;--I see the injured spirit
wave her head, and turn off silent from the author of her miseries and dishonours;--I lose
the feelings for myself in hers, and in those affections which were wont to make me mourn for
her when I was at school.

SURELY THIS IS NOT WALKING IN A VAIN SHADOW--NOR DOES MAN DISQUIET HIMSELF in vain BY IT: --he
oftener does so in trusting the issue of his commotions to reason only.--I can safely say for
myself, I was never able to conquer any one single bad sensation in my heart so decisively,
as beating up as fast as I could for some kindly and gentle sensation to fight it upon its
own ground

When I had got to the end of the third act the Count de B- entered, with my passport in his
hand.  Monsieur le Duc de C-, said the Count, is as good a prophet, I dare say, as he is a
statesman.  Un homme qui rit, said the Duke, ne sera jamais dangereux.--Had it been for any
one but the king's jester, added the Count, I could not have got it these two hours.--Pardonnez
moi, Monsieur le Count, said I--I am not the king's jester.--But you are Yorick?--Yes.--Et
vous plaisantez?--I answered, Indeed I did jest,--but was not paid for it;--'twas entirely
at my own expense.

We have no jester at court, Monsieur le Count, said I; the last we had was in the licentious
reign of Charles II.;--since which time our manners have been so gradually refining, that our
court at present is so full of patriots, who wish for NOTHING but the honours and wealth of
their country;--and our ladies are all so chaste, so spotless, so good, so devout,--there is
nothing for a jester to make a jest of. -

Voila un persiflage! cried the Count.

THE PASSPORT.  VERSAILLES.

As the passport was directed to all lieutenant-governors, governors, and commandants of cities,
generals of armies, justiciaries, and all officers of justice, to let Mr. Yorick the king's
jester, and his baggage, travel quietly along, I own the triumph of obtaining the passport
was not a little tarnish'd by the figure I cut in it.--But there is nothing unmix'd in this
world; and some of the gravest of our divines have carried it so far as to affirm, that enjoyment
itself was attended even with a sigh,--and that the greatest THEY KNEW OF terminated, IN A
GENERAL WAY, in little better than a convulsion.

I remember the grave and learned Bevoriskius, in his Commentary upon the Generations from Adam,
very naturally breaks off in the middle of a note to give an account to the world of a couple
of sparrows upon the out-edge of his window, which had incommoded him all the time he wrote,
and at last had entirely taken him off from his genealogy.

- 'Tis strange! writes Bevoriskius; but the facts are certain, for I have had the curiosity
to mark them down one by one with my pen;- -but the cock sparrow, during the little time that
I could have finished the other half of this note, has actually interrupted me with the reiteration
of his caresses three-and-twenty times and a half.

How merciful, adds Bevoriskius, is heaven to his creatures!

Ill fated Yorick! that the gravest of thy brethren should be able to write that to the world,
which stains thy face with crimson to copy, even in thy study.

But this is nothing to my travels.--So I twice,--twice beg pardon for it.

CHARACTER.  VERSAILLES.

And how do you find the French? said the Count de B-, after he had given me the passport.

The reader may suppose, that after so obliging a proof of courtesy, I could not be at a loss
to say something handsome to the enquiry.

- Mais passe, pour cela.--Speak frankly, said he:  do you find all the urbanity in the French
which the world give us the honour of?-- I had found every thing, I said, which confirmed it.--Vraiment,
said the Count, les Francois sont polis.--To an excess, replied I.

The Count took notice of the word exces; and would have it I meant more than I said.  I defended
myself a long time as well as I could against it.--He insisted I had a reserve, and that I
would speak my opinion frankly.

I believe, Monsieur le Count, said I, that man has a certain compass, as well as an instrument;
and that the social and other calls have occasion by turns for every key in him; so that if
you begin a note too high or too low, there must be a want either in the upper or under part,
to fill up the system of harmony.--The Count de B- did not understand music, so desired me
to explain it some other way.  A polish'd nation, my dear Count, said I, makes every one its
debtor:  and besides, Urbanity itself, like the fair sex, has so many charms, it goes against
the heart to say it can do ill; and yet, I believe, there is but a certain line of perfection,
that man, take him altogether, is empower'd to arrive at: --if he gets beyond, he rather exchanges
qualities than gets them.  I must not presume to say how far this has affected the French in
the subject we are speaking of;--but, should it ever be the case of the English, in the progress
of their refinements, to arrive at the same polish which distinguishes the French, if we did
not lose the politesse du coeur, which inclines men more to humane actions than courteous ones,--we
should at least lose that distinct variety and originality of character, which distinguishes
them, not only from each other, but from all the world besides.

I had a few of King William's shillings, as smooth as glass, in my pocket; and foreseeing they
would be of use in the illustration of my hypothesis, I had got them into my hand when I had
proceeded so far:  -

See, Monsieur le Count, said I, rising up, and laying them before him upon the table,--by jingling
and rubbing one against another for seventy years together in one body's pocket or another's,
they are become so much alike, you can scarce distinguish one shilling from another.

The English, like ancient medals, kept more apart, and passing but few people's hands, preserve
the first sharpnesses which the fine hand of Nature has given them;--they are not so pleasant
to feel,-- but in return the legend is so visible, that at the first look you see whose image
and superscription they bear.--But the French, Monsieur le Count, added I (wishing to soften
what I had said), have so many excellences, they can the better spare this;--they are a loyal,
a gallant, a generous, an ingenious, and good temper'd people as is under heaven;--if they
have a fault--they are too SERIOUS.

Mon Dieu! cried the Count, rising out of his chair.

Mais vous plaisantez, said he, correcting his exclamation.--I laid my hand upon my breast,
and with earnest gravity assured him it was my most settled opinion.

The Count said he was mortified he could not stay to hear my reasons, being engaged to go that
moment to dine with the Duc de C- .

But if it is not too far to come to Versailles to eat your soup with me, I beg, before you
leave France, I may have the pleasure of knowing you retract your opinion,--or, in what manner
you support it.--But, if you do support it, Monsieur Anglois, said he, you must do it with
all your powers, because you have the whole world against you.--I promised the Count I would
do myself the honour of dining with him before I set out for Italy;--so took my leave.

THE TEMPTATION.  PARIS.

When I alighted at the hotel, the porter told me a young woman with a bandbox had been that
moment enquiring for me.--I do not know, said the porter, whether she is gone away or not.
I took the key of my chamber of him, and went upstairs; and when I had got within ten steps
of the top of the landing before my door, I met her coming easily down.

It was the fair fille de chambre I had walked along the Quai de Conti with; Madame de R- had
sent her upon some commission to a marchande des modes within a step or two of the Hotel de
Modene; and as I had fail'd in waiting upon her, had bid her enquire if I had left Paris; and
if so, whether I had not left a letter addressed to her.

As the fair fille de chambre was so near my door, she returned back, and went into the room
with me for a moment or two whilst I wrote a card.

It was a fine still evening in the latter end of the month of May,- -the crimson window curtains
(which were of the same colour as those of the bed) were drawn close: --the sun was setting,
and reflected through them so warm a tint into the fair fille de chambre's face,--I thought
she blush'd;--the idea of it made me blush myself: --we were quite alone; and that superinduced
a second blush before the first could get off.

There is a sort of a pleasing half guilty blush, where the blood is more in fault than the
man: --'tis sent impetuous from the heart, and virtue flies after it,--not to call it back,
but to make the sensation of it more delicious to the nerves: --'tis associated. -

But I'll not describe it;--I felt something at first within me which was not in strict unison
with the lesson of virtue I had given her the night before.--I sought five minutes for a card;--I
knew I had not one.--I took up a pen.--I laid it down again;--my hand trembled: --the devil
was in me.

I know as well as any one he is an adversary, whom, if we resist, he will fly from us;--but
I seldom resist him at all; from a terror, though I may conquer, I may still get a hurt in
the combat;--so I give up the triumph for security; and, instead of thinking to make him fly,
I generally fly myself.

The fair fille de chambre came close up to the bureau where I was looking for a card--took
up first the pen I cast down, then offer'd to hold me the ink; she offer'd it so sweetly, I
was going to accept it;--but I durst not;--I have nothing, my dear, said I, to write upon.--Write
it, said she, simply, upon anything. -

I was just going to cry out, Then I will write it, fair girl! upon thy lips. -

If I do, said I, I shall perish;--so I took her by the hand, and led her to the door, and begg'd
she would not forget the lesson I had given her.--She said, indeed she would not;--and, as
she uttered it with some earnestness, she turn'd about, and gave me both her hands, closed
together, into mine;--it was impossible not to compress them in that situation;--I wish'd to
let them go; and all the time I held them, I kept arguing within myself against it,- -and still
I held them on.--In two minutes I found I had all the battle to fight over again;--and I felt
my legs and every limb about me tremble at the idea.

The foot of the bed was within a yard and a half of the place where we were standing.--I had
still hold of her hands--and how it happened I can give no account; but I neither ask'd her--nor
drew her--nor did I think of the bed;--but so it did happen, we both sat down.

I'll just show you, said the fair fille de chambre, the little purse I have been making to-day
to hold your crown.  So she put her hand into her right pocket, which was next me, and felt
for it some time--then into the left.--"She had lost it."--I never bore expectation more quietly;--it
was in her right pocket at last;--she pull'd it out; it was of green taffeta, lined with a
little bit of white quilted satin, and just big enough to hold the crown:  she put it into
my hand;--it was pretty; and I held it ten minutes with the back of my hand resting upon her
lap--looking sometimes at the purse, sometimes on one side of it.

A stitch or two had broke out in the gathers of my stock; the fair fille de chambre, without
saying a word, took out her little housewife, threaded a small needle, and sew'd it up.--I
foresaw it would hazard the glory of the day; and, as she pass'd her hand in silence across
and across my neck in the manoeuvre, I felt the laurels shake which fancy had wreath'd about
my head.

A strap had given way in her walk, and the buckle of her shoe was just falling off.--See, said
the fille de chambre, holding up her foot.--I could not, for my soul but fasten the buckle
in return, and putting in the strap,--and lifting up the other foot with it, when I had done,
to see both were right,--in doing it too suddenly, it unavoidably threw the fair fille de chambre
off her centre,--and then -

THE CONQUEST.

Yes,--and then -.  Ye whose clay-cold heads and luke-warm hearts can argue down or mask your
passions, tell me, what trespass is it that man should have them? or how his spirit stands
answerable to the Father of spirits but for his conduct under them?

If Nature has so wove her web of kindness, that some threads of love and desire are entangled
with the piece,--must the whole web be rent in drawing them out?--Whip me such stoics, great
Governor of Nature! said I to myself: --wherever thy providence shall place me for the trials
of my virtue;--whatever is my danger,--whatever is my situation,--let me feel the movements
which rise out of it, and which belong to me as a man,--and, if I govern them as a good one,
I will trust the issues to thy justice; for thou hast made us, and not we ourselves.

As I finished my address, I raised the fair fille de chambre up by the hand, and led her out
of the room: --she stood by me till I locked the door and put the key in my pocket,--and then,--the
victory being quite decisive--and not till then, I press'd my lips to her cheek, and taking
her by the hand again, led her safe to the gate of the hotel.

THE MYSTERY.  PARIS.

If a man knows the heart, he will know it was impossible to go back instantly to my chamber;--it
was touching a cold key with a flat third to it upon the close of a piece of music, which had
call'd forth my affections: --therefore, when I let go the hand of the fille de chambre, I
remained at the gate of the hotel for some time, looking at every one who pass'd by,--and forming
conjectures upon them, till my attention got fix'd upon a single object which confounded all
kind of reasoning upon him.

It was a tall figure of a philosophic, serious, adust look, which passed and repass'd sedately
along the street, making a turn of about sixty paces on each side of the gate of the hotel;--the
man was about fifty-two--had a small cane under his arm--was dress'd in a dark drab-colour'd
coat, waistcoat, and breeches, which seem'd to have seen some years service: --they were still
clean, and there was a little air of frugal proprete throughout him.

There were two things very singular in this, which set my brain to work, and to no purpose:
--the first was, why the man should ONLY tell his story to the sex;--and, secondly,--what kind
of story it was, and what species of eloquence it could be, which soften'd the hearts of the
women, which he knew 'twas to no purpose to practise upon the men.

There were two other circumstances, which entangled this mystery;-- the one was, he told every
woman what he had to say in her ear, and in a way which had much more the air of a secret than
a petition;-- the other was, it was always successful.--He never stopp'd a woman, but she pull'd
out her purse, and immediately gave him something.

I could form no system to explain the phenomenon.

I had got a riddle to amuse me for the rest of the evening; so I walk'd upstairs to my chamber.

THE CASE OF CONSCIENCE.  PARIS.

I was immediately followed up by the master of the hotel, who came into my room to tell me
I must provide lodgings elsewhere.--How so, friend? said I.--He answered, I had had a young
woman lock'd up with me two hours that evening in my bedchamber, and 'twas against the rules
of his house.--Very well, said I, we'll all part friends then,--for the girl is no worse,--and
I am no worse,--and you will be just as I found you.--It was enough, he said, to overthrow
the credit of his hotel.--Voyez vous, Monsieur, said he, pointing to the foot of the bed we
had been sitting upon.--I own it had something of the appearance of an evidence; but my pride
not suffering me to enter into any detail of the case, I exhorted him to let his soul sleep
in peace, as I resolved to let mine do that night, and that I would discharge what I owed him
at breakfast.

I should not have minded, Monsieur, said he, if you had had twenty girls--'Tis a score more,
replied I, interrupting him, than I ever reckon'd upon--Provided, added he, it had been but
in a morning.-- And does the difference of the time of the day at Paris make a difference in
the sin?--It made a difference, he said, in the scandal.--I like a good distinction in my heart;
and cannot say I was intolerably out of temper with the man.--I own it is necessary, resumed
the master of the hotel, that a stranger at Paris should have the opportunities presented to
him of buying lace and silk stockings and ruffles, et tout cela;--and 'tis nothing if a woman
comes with a band-box.--O, my conscience! said I, she had one but I never look'd into it.--Then
Monsieur, said he, has bought nothing?- -Not one earthly thing, replied I.--Because, said he,
I could recommend one to you who would use you en conscience.--But I must see her this night,
said I.--He made me a low bow, and walk'd down.

Now shall I triumph over this maitre d'hotel, cried I,--and what then?  Then I shall let him
see I know he is a dirty fellow.--And what then?  What then?--I was too near myself to say
it was for the sake of others.--I had no good answer left;--there was more of spleen than principle
in my project, and I was sick of it before the execution.

In a few minutes the grisette came in with her box of lace.--I'll buy nothing, however, said
I, within myself.

The grisette would show me everything.--I was hard to please:  she would not seem to see it;
she opened her little magazine, and laid all her laces one after another before me;--unfolded
and folded them up again one by one with the most patient sweetness.--I might buy,--or not;--she
would let me have everything at my own price: -- the poor creature seem'd anxious to get a
penny; and laid herself out to win me, and not so much in a manner which seem'd artful, as
in one I felt simple and caressing.

If there is not a fund of honest gullibility in man, so much the worse;--my heart relented,
and I gave up my second resolution as quietly as the first.--Why should I chastise one for
the trespass of another?  If thou art tributary to this tyrant of an host, thought I, looking
up in her face, so much harder is thy bread.

If I had not had more than four louis d'ors in my purse, there was no such thing as rising
up and showing her the door, till I had first laid three of them out in a pair of ruffles.

- The master of the hotel will share the profit with her;--no matter,--then I have only paid
as many a poor soul has PAID before me, for an act he COULD not do, or think of.

THE RIDDLE.  PARIS.

When La Fleur came up to wait upon me at supper, he told me how sorry the master of the hotel
was for his affront to me in bidding me change my lodgings.

A man who values a good night's rest will not lie down with enmity in his heart, if he can
help it.--So I bid La Fleur tell the master of the hotel, that I was sorry on my side for the
occasion I had given him;--and you may tell him, if you will, La Fleur, added I, that if the
young woman should call again, I shall not see her.

This was a sacrifice not to him, but myself, having resolved, after so narrow an escape, to
run no more risks, but to leave Paris, if it was possible, with all the virtue I enter'd it.

C'est deroger a noblesse, Monsieur, said La Fleur, making me a bow down to the ground as he
said it.--Et encore, Monsieur, said he, may change his sentiments;--and if (par hazard) he
should like to amuse himself,--I find no amusement in it, said I, interrupting him. -

Mon Dieu! said La Fleur,--and took away.

In an hour's time he came to put me to bed, and was more than commonly officious: --something
hung upon his lips to say to me, or ask me, which he could not get off:  I could not conceive
what it was, and indeed gave myself little trouble to find it out, as I had another riddle
so much more interesting upon my mind, which was that of the man's asking charity before the
door of the hotel.--I would have given anything to have got to the bottom of it; and that,
not out of curiosity,--'tis so low a principle of enquiry, in general, I would not purchase
the gratification of it with a two- sous piece;--but a secret, I thought, which so soon and
so certainly soften'd the heart of every woman you came near, was a secret at least equal to
the philosopher's stone; had I both the Indies, I would have given up one to have been master
of it.

I toss'd and turn'd it almost all night long in my brains to no manner of purpose; and when
I awoke in the morning, I found my spirits as much troubled with my dreams, as ever the King
of Babylon had been with his; and I will not hesitate to affirm, it would have puzzled all
the wise men of Paris as much as those of Chaldea to have given its interpretation.

LE DIMANCHE.  PARIS.

It was Sunday; and when La Fleur came in, in the morning, with my coffee and roll and butter,
he had got himself so gallantly array'd, I scarce knew him.

I had covenanted at Montreuil to give him a new hat with a silver button and loop, and four
louis d'ors, pour s'adoniser, when we got to Paris; and the poor fellow, to do him justice,
had done wonders with it.

He had bought a bright, clean, good scarlet coat, and a pair of breeches of the same.--They
were not a crown worse, he said, for the wearing.--I wish'd him hang'd for telling me.--They
look'd so fresh, that though I knew the thing could not be done, yet I would rather have imposed
upon my fancy with thinking I had bought them new for the fellow, than that they had come out
of the Rue de Friperie.

This is a nicety which makes not the heart sore at Paris.

He had purchased, moreover, a handsome blue satin waistcoat, fancifully enough embroidered:
--this was indeed something the worse for the service it had done, but 'twas clean scour'd;--the
gold had been touch'd up, and upon the whole was rather showy than otherwise;--and as the blue
was not violent, it suited with the coat and breeches very well:  he had squeez'd out of the
money, moreover, a new bag and a solitaire; and had insisted with the fripier upon a gold pair
of garters to his breeches knees.--He had purchased muslin ruffles, bien brodees, with four
livres of his own money;--and a pair of white silk stockings for five more;--and to top all,
nature had given him a handsome figure, without costing him a sous.

He entered the room thus set off, with his hair dressed in the first style, and with a handsome
bouquet in his breast.--In a word, there was that look of festivity in everything about him,
which at once put me in mind it was Sunday;--and, by combining both together, it instantly
struck me, that the favour he wish'd to ask of me the night before, was to spend the day as
every body in Paris spent it besides.  I had scarce made the conjecture, when La Fleur, with
infinite humility, but with a look of trust, as if I should not refuse him, begg'd I would
grant him the day, pour faire le galant vis-a-vis de sa maitresse.

Now it was the very thing I intended to do myself vis-a-vis Madame de R-.--I had retained the
remise on purpose for it, and it would not have mortified my vanity to have had a servant so
well dress'd as La Fleur was, to have got up behind it:  I never could have worse spared him.

But we must FEEL, not argue in these embarrassments.--The sons and daughters of Service part
with liberty, but not with nature, in their contracts; they are flesh and blood, and have their
little vanities and wishes in the midst of the house of bondage, as well as their task-masters;--no
doubt, they have set their self-denials at a price,--and their expectations are so unreasonable,
that I would often disappoint them, but that their condition puts it so much in my power to do it.

BEHOLD,--BEHOLD, I AM THY SERVANT--disarms me at once of the powers of a master. -

Thou shalt go, La Fleur! said I.

- And what mistress, La Fleur, said I, canst thou have picked up in so little a time at Paris?
La Fleur laid his hand upon his breast, and said 'twas a petite demoiselle, at Monsieur le
Count de B-'s.-- La Fleur had a heart made for society; and, to speak the truth of him, let
as few occasions slip him as his master;--so that somehow or other,--but how,--heaven knows,--he
had connected himself with the demoiselle upon the landing of the staircase, during the time
I was taken up with my passport; and as there was time enough for me to win the Count to my
interest, La Fleur had contrived to make it do to win the maid to his.  The family, it seems,
was to be at Paris that day, and he had made a party with her, and two or three more of the
Count's household, upon the boulevards.

Happy people! that once a week at least are sure to lay down all your cares together, and dance
and sing and sport away the weights of grievance, which bow down the spirit of other nations
to the earth.

THE FRAGMENT.  PARIS.

La Fleur had left me something to amuse myself with for the day more than I had bargain'd for,
or could have enter'd either into his head or mine.

He had brought the little print of butter upon a currant leaf:  and as the morning was warm,
and he had a good step to bring it, he had begg'd a sheet of waste paper to put betwixt the
currant leaf and his hand.--As that was plate sufficient, I bade him lay it upon the table
as it was; and as I resolved to stay within all day, I ordered him to call upon the traiteur,
to bespeak my dinner, and leave me to breakfast by myself.

When I had finished the butter, I threw the currant-leaf out of the window, and was going to
do the same by the waste paper;--but stopping to read a line first, and that drawing me on
to a second and third,--I thought it better worth; so I shut the window, and drawing a chair
up to it, I sat down to read it.

It was in the old French of Rabelais's time, and for aught I know might have been wrote by
him: --it was moreover in a Gothic letter, and that so faded and gone off by damps and length
of time, it cost me infinite trouble to make anything of it.--I threw it down; and then wrote
a letter to Eugenius;--then I took it up again, and embroiled my patience with it afresh;--and
then to cure that, I wrote a letter to Eliza.--Still it kept hold of me; and the difficulty
of understanding it increased but the desire.

I got my dinner; and after I had enlightened my mind with a bottle of Burgundy; I at it again,--and,
after two or three hours poring upon it, with almost as deep attention as ever Gruter or Jacob
Spon did upon a nonsensical inscription, I thought I made sense of it; but to make sure of
it, the best way, I imagined, was to turn it into English, and see how it would look then;--so
I went on leisurely, as a trifling man does, sometimes writing a sentence,-- then taking a
turn or two,--and then looking how the world went, out of the window; so that it was nine o'clock
at night before I had done it.--I then began and read it as follows.

THE FRAGMENT.  PARIS.

- Now, as the notary's wife disputed the point with the notary with too much heat,--I wish,
said the notary, (throwing down the parchment) that there was another notary here only to set
down and attest all this. -

- And what would you do then, Monsieur? said she, rising hastily up.--The notary's wife was
a little fume of a woman, and the notary thought it well to avoid a hurricane by a mild reply.--I
would go, answered he, to bed.--You may go to the devil, answer'd the notary's wife.

Now there happening to be but one bed in the house, the other two rooms being unfurnished,
as is the custom at Paris, and the notary not caring to lie in the same bed with a woman who
had but that moment sent him pell mell to the devil, went forth with his hat and cane and short
cloak, the night being very windy, and walk'd out, ill at ease, towards the Pont Neuf.

Of all the bridges which ever were built, the whole world who have pass'd over the Pont Neuf
must own, that it is the noblest,--the finest,--the grandest,--the lightest,--the longest,--the
broadest, that ever conjoin'd land and land together upon the face of the terraqueous globe.

[By this it seems as if the author of the fragment had not been a Frenchman.]

The worst fault which divines and the doctors of the Sorbonne can allege against it is, that
if there is but a capfull of wind in or about Paris, 'tis more blasphemously sacre Dieu'd there
than in any other aperture of the whole city,--and with reason good and cogent, Messieurs;
for it comes against you without crying garde d'eau, and with such unpremeditable puffs, that
of the few who cross it with their hats on, not one in fifty but hazards two livres and a half,
which is its full worth.

The poor notary, just as he was passing by the sentry, instinctively clapp'd his cane to the
side of it, but in raising it up, the point of his cane catching hold of the loop of the sentinel's
hat, hoisted it over the spikes of the ballustrade clear into the Seine. -

- 'TIS AN ILL WIND, said a boatman, who catched it, WHICH BLOWS NOBODY ANY GOOD.

The sentry, being a Gascon, incontinently twirled up his whiskers, and levell'd his arquebuss.

Arquebusses in those days went off with matches; and an old woman's paper lantern at the end
of the bridge happening to be blown out, she had borrow'd the sentry's match to light it: --it
gave a moment's time for the Gascon's blood to run cool, and turn the accident better to his
advantage.--'TIS AN ILL WIND, said he, catching off the notary's castor, and legitimating the
capture with the boatman's adage.

The poor notary crossed the bridge, and passing along the Rue de Dauphine into the fauxbourgs
of St. Germain, lamented himself as he walked along in this manner:  -

Luckless man that I am! said the notary, to be the sport of hurricanes all my days: --to be
born to have the storm of ill language levell'd against me and my profession wherever I go;
to be forced into marriage by the thunder of the church to a tempest of a woman;--to be driven
forth out of my house by domestic winds, and despoil'd of my castor by pontific ones!--to be
here, bareheaded, in a windy night, at the mercy of the ebbs and flows of accidents!- -Where
am I to lay my head?--Miserable man! what wind in the two- and-thirty points of the whole compass
can blow unto thee, as it does to the rest of thy fellow-creatures, good?

As the notary was passing on by a dark passage, complaining in this sort, a voice call'd out
to a girl, to bid her run for the next notary.--Now the notary being the next, and availing
himself of his situation, walk'd up the passage to the door, and passing through an old sort
of a saloon, was usher'd into a large chamber, dismantled of everything but a long military
pike,--a breastplate,- -a rusty old sword, and bandoleer, hung up, equidistant, in four different
places against the wall.

An old personage who had heretofore been a gentleman, and unless decay of fortune taints the
blood along with it, was a gentleman at that time, lay supporting his head upon his hand in
his bed; a little table with a taper burning was set close beside it, and close by the table
was placed a chair: --the notary sat him down in it; and pulling out his inkhorn and a sheet
or two of paper which he had in his pocket, he placed them before him; and dipping his pen
in his ink, and leaning his breast over the table, he disposed everything to make the gentleman's
last will and testament

Alas!  Monsieur le Notaire, said the gentleman, raising himself up a little, I have nothing
to bequeath, which will pay the expense of bequeathing, except the history of myself, which
I could not die in peace, unless I left it as a legacy to the world:  the profits arising out
of it I bequeath to you for the pains of taking it from me.--It is a story so uncommon, it
must be read by all mankind;--it will make the fortunes of your house.--The notary dipp'd his
pen into his inkhorn.--Almighty Director of every event in my life! said the old gentleman,
looking up earnestly, and raising his hands towards heaven,--Thou, whose hand has led me on
through such a labyrinth of strange passages down into this scene of desolation, assist the
decaying memory of an old, infirm, and broken-hearted man;--direct my tongue by the spirit
of thy eternal truth, that this stranger may set down nought but what is written in that BOOK,
from whose records, said he, clasping his hands together, I am to be condemn'd or acquitted!--the
notary held up the point of his pen betwixt the taper and his eye. -

It is a story, Monsieur le Notaire, said the gentleman, which will rouse up every affection
in nature;--it will kill the humane, and touch the heart of Cruelty herself with pity. -

- The notary was inflamed with a desire to begin, and put his pen a third time into his ink-horn--and
the old gentleman, turning a little more towards the notary, began to dictate his story in
these words:  -

- And where is the rest of it, La Fleur? said I, as he just then enter'd the room.

THE FRAGMENT, AND THE BOUQUET. {1}  PARIS.

Whether I did or no will be seen hereafter.

THE ACT OF CHARITY.  PARIS.

The man who either disdains or fears to walk up a dark entry may be an excellent good man,
and fit for a hundred things, but he will not do to make a good Sentimental Traveller.--I count
little of the many things I see pass at broad noonday, in large and open streets.--Nature is
shy, and hates to act before spectators; but in such an unobserved corner you sometimes see
a single short scene of hers worth all the sentiments of a dozen French plays compounded together,--and
yet they are absolutely fine;--and whenever I have a more brilliant affair upon my hands than
common, as they suit a preacher just as well as a hero, I generally make my sermon out of 'em;--and
for the text,--"Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia,"--is as good as any one
in the Bible.

There is a long dark passage issuing out from the Opera Comique into a narrow street; 'tis
trod by a few who humbly wait for a fiacre, {2} or wish to get off quietly o'foot when the
opera is done.  At the end of it, towards the theatre, 'tis lighted by a small candle, the
light of which is almost lost before you get half-way down, but near the door--'tis more for
ornament than use: you see it as a fixed star of the least magnitude; it burns,--but does little
good to the world, that we know of.

In returning along this passage, I discerned, as I approached within five or six paces of the
door, two ladies standing arm-in- arm with their backs against the wall, waiting, as I imagined,
for a fiacre;--as they were next the door, I thought they had a prior right; so edged myself
up within a yard or little more of them, and quietly took my stand.--I was in black, and scarce
seen.

The lady next me was a tall lean figure of a woman, of about thirty-six; the other of the same
size and make, of about forty: there was no mark of wife or widow in any one part of either
of them;--they seem'd to be two upright vestal sisters, unsapped by caresses, unbroke in upon
by tender salutations.--I could have wish'd to have made them happy: --their happiness was
destin'd that night, to come from another quarter.

A low voice, with a good turn of expression, and sweet cadence at the end of it, begg'd for
a twelve-sous piece betwixt them, for the love of heaven.  I thought it singular that a beggar
should fix the quota of an alms--and that the sum should be twelve times as much as what is
usually given in the dark.--They both seemed astonished at it as much as myself.--Twelve sous!
said one.--A twelve-sous piece! said the other,--and made no reply.

The poor man said, he knew not how to ask less of ladies of their rank; and bow'd down his
head to the ground.

Poo! said they,--we have no money.

The beggar remained silent for a moment or two, and renew'd his supplication.

- Do not, my fair young ladies, said he, stop your good ears against me.--Upon my word, honest
man! said the younger, we have no change.--Then God bless you, said the poor man, and multiply
those joys which you can give to others without change!--I observed the elder sister put her
hand into her pocket.--I'll see, said she, if I have a sous.  A sous! give twelve, said the
supplicant; Nature has been bountiful to you, be bountiful to a poor man.

- I would friend, with all my heart, said the younger, if I had it.

My fair charitable! said he, addressing himself to the elder,--what is it but your goodness
and humanity which makes your bright eyes so sweet, that they outshine the morning even in
this dark passage? and what was it which made the Marquis de Santerre and his brother say so
much of you both as they just passed by?

The two ladies seemed much affected; and impulsively, at the same time they both put their
hands into their pocket, and each took out a twelve-sous piece.

The contest betwixt them and the poor supplicant was no more;--it was continued betwixt themselves,
which of the two should give the twelve-sous piece in charity;--and, to end the dispute, they
both gave it together, and the man went away.

THE RIDDLE EXPLAINED.  PARIS.

I stepped hastily after him:  it was the very man whose success in asking charity of the women
before the door of the hotel had so puzzled me;--and I found at once his secret, or at least
the basis of it: --'twas flattery.

The poor man, as he was not straiten'd for time, had given it here in a larger dose:  'tis
certain he had a way of bringing it into a less form, for the many sudden cases he had to do
with in the streets:  but how he contrived to correct, sweeten, concentre, and qualify it,--I
vex not my spirit with the enquiry;--it is enough the beggar gained two twelve-sous pieces--and
they can best tell the rest, who have gained much greater matters by it.

PARIS.

We get forwards in the world, not so much by doing services, as receiving them; you take a
withering twig, and put it in the ground; and then you water it, because you have planted it.

