WAYS AND MEANS

A Pamphlet On Revenues

I

For myself I hold to the opinion that the qualities of the leading statesmen in a state, whatever
they be, are reproduced in the character of the constitution itself. (1)

 (1) "Like minister, like government." For the same idea more fully
    expressed, see "Cyrop." VIII. i. 8; viii. 5.

As, however, it has been maintained by certain leading statesmen in Athens that the recognised
standard of right and wrong is as high at Athens as elsewhere, but that, owing to the pressure
of poverty on the masses, a certain measure of injustice in their dealing with the allied states
(2) could not be avoided; I set myself to discover whether by any manner of means it were possible
for the citizens of Athens to be supported solely from the soil of Attica itself, which was
obviously the most equitable solution. For if so, herein lay, as I believed, the antidote at
once to their own poverty and to the feeling of suspicion with which they are regarded by the
rest of Hellas.

 (2) Lit. "the cities," i.e. of the alliance, {tas summakhidas}.

I had no sooner begun my investigation than one fact presented itself clearly to my mind, which
is that the country itself is made by nature to provide the amplest resources. And with a view
to establishing the truth of this initial proposition I will describe the physical features
of Attica.

In the first place, the extraordinary mildness of the climate is proved by the actual products
of the soil. Numerous plants which in many parts of the world appear as stunted leafless growths
are here fruit-bearing. And as with the soil so with the sea indenting our coasts, the varied
productivity of which is exceptionally great. Again with regard to those kindly fruits of earth
(3) which Providence bestows on man season by season, one and all they commence earlier and
end later in this land. Nor is the supremacy of Attica shown only in those products which year
after year flourish and grow old, but the land contains treasures of a more perennial kind.
Within its folds lies imbedded by nature an unstinted store of marble, out of which are chiselled
(4) temples and altars of rarest beauty and the glittering splendour of images sacred to the
gods. This marble, moreover, is an object of desire to many foreigners, Hellenes and barbarians
alike. Then there is land which, although it yields no fruit to the sower, needs only to be
quarried in order to feed many times more mouths than it could as corn-land. Doubtless we owe
it to a divine dispensation that our land is veined with silver; if we consider how many neighbouring
states lie round us by land and sea and yet into none of them does a single thinnest vein of
silver penetrate.

 (3) Lit. "those good things which the gods afford in their seasons."

 (4) Or, "arise," or "are fashioned."

Indeed it would be scarcely irrational to maintain that the city of Athens lies at the navel,
not of Hellas merely, but of the habitable world. So true is it, that the farther we remove
from Athens the greater the extreme of heat or cold to be encountered; or to use another illustration,
the traveller who desires to traverse the confines of Hellas from end to end will find that,
whether he voyages by sea or by land, he is describing a circle, the centre of which is Athens. (5)

 (5) See "Geog. of Brit. Isles." J. R. and S. A. Green, ch. i. p. 7:
    "London, in fact, is placed at what is very nearly the geometrical
    centre of those masses of land which make up the earth surface of
    the globe, and is thus more than any city of the world the natural
    point of convergence for its different lines of navigation," etc.
    The natural advantages of Boeotia are similarly set forth by
    Ephorus. Cf. Strab. ix. 2, p. 400.

Once more, this land though not literally sea-girt has all the advantages of an island, being
accessible to every wind that blows, and can invite to its bosom or waft from its shore all
products, since it is peninsular; whilst by land it is the emporium of many markets, as being
a portion of the continent.

Lastly, while the majority of states have barbarian neighbours, the source of many troubles,
Athens has as her next-door neighbours civilised states which are themselves far remote from
the barbarians.

II

All these advantages, to repeat what I have said, may, I believe, be traced primarily to the
soil and position of Attica itself. But these natural blessings may be added to: in the first
place, by a careful handling of our resident alien (1) population. And, for my part, I can
hardly conceive of a more splendid source of revenue than lies open in this direction. Here
you have a self-supporting class of residents conferring large benefits upon the state, and
instead of receiving payment (2) themselves, contributing on the contrary to the gain of the
exchequer by the sojourners' tax. (3) Nor, under the term careful handling, do I demand more
than the removal of obligations which, whilst they confer no benefit on the state, have an
air of inflicting various disabilities on the resident aliens. (4) And I would further relieve
them from the obligation of serving as hoplites side by side with the citizen proper; since,
beside the personal risk, which is great, the trouble of quitting trades and homesteads is
no trifle. (5) Incidentally the state itself would benefit by this exemption, if the citizens
were more in the habit of campaigning with one another, rather than (6) shoulder to shoulder
with Lydians, Phrygians, Syrians, and barbarians from all quarters of the world, who form the
staple of our resident alien class. Besides the advantage (of so weeding the ranks), (7) it
would add a positive lustre to our city, were it admitted that the men of Athens, her sons,
have reliance on themselves rather than on foreigners to fight her battles. And further, supposing
we offered our resident aliens a share in various other honourable duties, including the cavalry
service, (8) I shall be surprised if we do not increase the goodwill of the aliens themselves,
whilst at the same time we add distinctly to the strength and grandeur of our city.

 (1) Lit. "metics" or "metoecs."

 (2) {misthos}, e.g. of the assembly, the senate, and the dicasts.

 (3) The {metoikion}. See Plat. "Laws," 850 B; according to Isaeus, ap.
    Harpocr. s.v., it was 12 drachmae per annum for a male and 6
    drachmae for a female.

 (4) Or, "the class in question." According to Schneider (who cites the
    {atimetos metanastes} of Homer, "Il." ix. 648), the reference is
    not to disabilities in the technical sense, but to humiliating
    duties, such as the {skaphephoria} imposed on the men, or the
    {udriaphoria} and {skiadephoria} imposed on their wives and
    daughters in attendance on the {kanephoroi} at the Panathenaic and
    other festival processions. See Arist. "Eccles." 730 foll.;
    Boeckh, "P. E. A." IV. x. (Eng. tr. G. Cornewall Lewis, p. 538).

 (5) Or, reading {megas men gar o agon, mega de kai to apo ton tekhnon
    kai ton oikeion apienai}, after Zurborg ("Xen. de Reditibus
    Libellus," Berolini, MDCCCLXXVI.), transl. "since it is severe
    enough to enter the arena of war, but all the worse when that
    implies the abandonment of your trade and your domestic concerns."

 (6) Or, "instead of finding themselves brigaded as nowadays with a
    motley crew of Lydians," etc.

 (7) Zurborg, after Cobet, omits the words so rendered.

 (8) See "Hipparch." ix. 3, where Xenophon in almost identical words
    recommends that reform.

In the next place, seeing that there are at present numerous building sites within the city
walls as yet devoid of houses, supposing the state were to make free grants of such land (9)
to foreigners for building purposes in cases where there could be no doubt as to the respectability
of the applicant, if I am not mistaken, the result of such a measure will be that a larger
number of persons, and of a better class, will be attracted to Athens as a place of residence.

 (9) Or, "offer the fee simple of such property to."

Lastly, if we could bring ourselves to appoint, as a new government office, a board of guardians
of foreign residents like our Guardians of Orphans, (10) with special privileges assigned to
those guardians who should show on their books the greatest number of resident aliens--such
a measure would tend to improve the goodwill of the class in question, and in all probability
all people without a city of their own would aspire to the status of foreign residents in Athens,
and so further increase the revenues of the city. (11)

 (10) "The Archon was the legal protector of all orphans. It was his
    duty to appoint guardians, if none were named in the father's
    will."--C. R. Kennedy, Note to "Select Speeches of Demosthenes."
    The orphans of those who had fallen in the war (Thuc. ii. 46) were
    specially cared for.

 (11) Or, "help to swell the state exchequer."

III

At this point I propose to offer some remarks in proof of the attractions and advantages of
Athens as a centre of commercial enterprise. In the first place, it will hardly be denied that
we possess the finest and safest harbourage for shipping, where vessels of all sorts can come
to moorings and be laid up in absolute security (1) as far as stress of weather is concerned.
But further than that, in most states the trader is under the necessity of lading his vessel
with some merchandise (2) or other in exchange for his cargo, since the current coin (3) has
no circulation beyond the frontier. But at Athens he has a choice: he can either in return
for his wares export a variety of goods, such as human beings seek after, or, if he does not
desire to take goods in exchange for goods, he has simply to export silver, and he cannot have
a more excellent freight to export, since wherever he likes to sell it he may look to realise
a large percentage on his capital. (4)

 (1) Reading {adeos} after Cobet, or if {edeos}, transl. "in perfect
    comfort."

 (2) Or, "of exchanging cargo for cargo to the exclusion of specie."

 (3) I.e. of the particular locality. See "The Types of Greek Coins,"
    Percy Gardner, ch. ii. "International Currencies among the
    Greeks."

 (4) Or, "on the original outlay."

Or again, supposing prizes (5) were offered to the magistrates in charge of the market (6)
for equitable and speedy settlements of points in dispute (7) to enable any one so wishing
to proceed on his voyage without hindrance, the result would be that far more traders would
trade with us and with greater satisfaction.

 (5) Cf. "Hiero," ix. 6, 7, 11; "Hipparch." i. 26.

 (6) {to tou emporiou arkhe}. Probably he is referring to the
    {epimeletai emporiou} (overseers of the market). See Harpocr.
    s.v.; Aristot. "Athenian Polity," 51.

 (7) For the sort of case, see Demosth. (or Deinarch.) "c. Theocr."
    1324; Zurborg ad loc.; Boeckh, I. ix. xv. (pp. 48, 81, Eng. tr.)

It would indeed be a good and noble institution to pay special marks of honour, such as the
privilege of the front seat, to merchants and shipowners, and on occasion to invite to hospitable
entertainment those who, through something notable in the quality of ship or merchandise, may
claim to have done the state a service. The recipients of these honours will rush into our
arms as friends, not only under the incentive of gain, but of distinction also.

Now the greater the number of people attracted to Athens either as visitors or as residents,
clearly the greater the development of imports and exports. More goods will be sent out of
the country, (8) there will be more buying and selling, with a consequent influx of money in
the shape of rents to individuals and dues and customs to the state exchequer. And to secure
this augmentation of the revenues, mind you, not the outlay of one single penny; nothing needed
beyond one or two philanthropic measures and certain details of supervision. (9)

 (8) See Zurborg, "Comm." p. 24.

 (9) See Aristot. "Pol." iv. 15, 3.

With regard to the other sources of revenue which I contemplate, I admit, it is different.
For these I recognise the necessity of a capital (10) to begin with. I am not, however, without
good hope that the citizens of this state will contribute heartily to such an object, when
I reflect on the large sums subscribed by the state on various late occasions, as, for instance,
when reinforcements were sent to the Arcadians under the command of Lysistratus, (11) and again
at the date of the generalship of Hegesileos. (12) I am well aware that ships of war are frequently
despatched and that too (13) although it is uncertain whether the venture will be for the better
or for the worse, and the only certainty is that the contributor will not recover the sum subscribed
nor have any further share in the object for which he gave his contribution. (14)

 (10) "A starting-point."

 (11) B.C. 366; cf. "Hell." VII. iv. 3.

 (12) B.C. 362; cf. "Hell." VII. v. 15. See Grote, "H. G." x. 459;
    Ephor. ap. Diog. Laert. ii. 54; Diod. Sic. xv. 84; Boeckh, ap. L.
    Dindorf. Xenophon's son Gryllus served under him and was slain.

 (13) Reading {kai tauta toutout men adelou ontos}, after Zurborg.

 (14) Reading { (uper) on an eisenegkosi} with Zurborg. See his note,
    "Comm." p. 25.

But for a sound investment (15) I know of nothing comparable with the initial outlay to form
this fund. (16) Any one whose contribution amounts to ten minae (17) may look forward to a
return as high as he would get on bottomry, of nearly one-fifth, (18) as the recipient of three
obols a day. The contributor of five minae (19) will on the same principle get more than a
third, (20) while the majority of Athenians will get more than cent per cent on their contribution.
That is to say, a subscription of one mina (21) will put the subscriber in possession of nearly
double that sum, (22) and that, moreover, without setting foot outside Athens, which, as far
as human affairs go, is as sound and durable a security as possible.

 (15) "A good substantial property."

 (16) Or, "on the other hand, I affirm that the outlay necessary to
    form the capital for my present project will be more remunerative
    than any other that can be named." As to the scheme itself see
    Grote, "Plato," III. ch. xxxix.; Boeckh, op. cit. (pp. 4, 37, 136,
    600 seq. Eng. tr.) Cf. Demosth. "de Sym." for another scheme, 354
    B.C., which shows the "sound administrative and practical
    judgment" of the youthful orator as compared with "the benevolent
    dreams and ample public largess in which Xenophon here indulges."
    --Grote, op. cit. p. 601.

 (17) L40:12:4 = 1000 drachmae.

 (18) I.e. exactly 18 or nearly 20 per cent. The following table will
    make the arithmetic clear:--

        6 ob. = 1 drachma           10 minae = 6000 ob.
      100 dr. = 1 mina                       = 1000 dr.

      600 ob. = 1 mina   1000 dr.:180 dr.::100:18 therefore nearly 1/5
    3 ob. (a day) x 360 = 1080 ob. p.a.      = nearly 20 per cent.
                        =  180 dr. p.a.

