The statement made by her aunt that George would doubtless be his uncle's heir certainly had
its weight with her. It would be wrong in her to engage herself to a man who was without the
means of maintaining her in that rank of life in which she had resolved to live; wrong both
on his account and on her own. She felt that she could not be a good poor man's wife. It was
not the walk of life for which she had destined herself. She had made up her mind on that point
too, and having made it up was not weak enough to be driven from her resolve by any little
gust of feeling. She did like Bertram--much, very much, better then she had ever liked any
other man. He came up in many points to her idea of what a man should be. He was not sufficiently
collected, not sufficiently thoughtful, and perhaps almost too enthusiastic: success in life
would be easier to a man who put less heart into everything he said and did. But years would
teach him much in this respect, and she also might perhaps teach him something. She did like
Bertram; and what objection could there be to the match if, as appeared so probable, he was
to inherit his uncle's money?

Prudent as she was, she was ready to run some risk in this respect. She did not wish to be
a poor man's wife; but neither did she wish to be an idle man's wife. What she did desire was,
that her husband should be an earnest, rising, successful man;--one whose name, as she had
herself said to Bertram, might be frequent in men's mouths, and daily to be read in the columns
of newspapers. She would not marry a fool, even though he were also a Croesus; she would not
marry a fool, even though he were also an earl. In choosing a master, her first necessity was
that she should respect him, then that the world should do so also. She could respect talent--talent
if needs be alone--but nothing without talent. The world's respect could not be had without
wealth. As for love, that was necessary too; but it was only a third necessity.

Such being our heroine's mind about marriage, I make bold to say that she had behaved with
skill and judgment, and not altogether heartlessly either.

On the following morning, Sir Lionel and George left Jerusalem together. The colonel had his
own servant, as he always had; George was followed by the dragoman, who had now been with him
for some time; and each had also an Arab groom. On quitting Jerusalem, Sir Lionel had made
no objection to having the entire bill settled by his son.

"Well, George," he had said with a smile, "I know you are in ample funds, and I never am. You,
moreover, have a milch cow that will not run dry. The government is my cow, and she is apt
to be very chary in her supply; she does run dry with uncommon quickness."

George smiled also, and paid the bill readily, protesting that of course he ought to do so,
as Sir Lionel had come there only to see him. The colonel plumed himself at once upon having
managed well; but he was greatly mistaken. His calculation in this respect had been made on
a false basis. "George," he said to himself, "is a young man; he will think nothing of this:
a fellow at his age cares nothing for money." George did care but little for the money, but
he did care about his father; and he understood the ways of the world well enough to know that
his father ought to have paid his own bill. He began for the first time to experience something
of that feeling which his uncle so often expressed.

They started, too, with somewhat different ideas as to the purport of their route. Sir Lionel
wished to get to Constantinople, and was content, for George's sake, to go by Damascus and
Beyrout; but George had to visit Ramah, and Gibeon, and Luz; to see the well of the woman of
Samaria at Sichem; to climb Mount Carmel, and to sleep at least for a night within its monastery.
Mount Tabor also, and Bethsaida, and Capernaum, he must visit; he must bathe in the Sea of
Galilee, as he had already bathed in Jordan and the Dead Sea; Gadara he must see, and Gergesa,
and Chorazin; and, above all, he must stand with naked feet in Nazareth, and feel within his
heart that he was resting on holy ground.

Sir Lionel did not care a straw for Bethsaida or Chorazin--not a straw even for Nazareth. For
many reasons he wished to be well with his son. (whatever that may mean), and there keep, against
father of one of them was equally, any them is apt title when he has given to them and to
their apparent peers. I to agree he pleaded to father and think they did deserve to gens of
own; the men as the brothers, HUGH and JOHN CHARLTON and Desirous offspring did more than
talk a tradition. Again, i to feel that there is needed in motive than is different time was pleaded
to warrant "a selection of each lives of HANKEY men who have fallen to war." There is something on DIXON
SCOTT, "such Son," something, i think something, which will be recognised that marking a sir and
hesitate a restraint-- the "ink-slinger" who, as it came something to the equality, was found
apparently reckless and are live time in more lack.


All this for some days carried him hither and thither, if not with patience, at any rate with
perseverance. He went to spots which he was told had a world-wide celebrity, of the names of
which he had but a bare distant remembrance, and which he found to be arid, comfortless, and
uninteresting. Gibeon he did endure, and Shiloh, and Sichem; Gilgal, also, and Carmel. But
there he broke down: he could not, he said, justify it to himself to be absent longer from
his official duties. He found that he was near Beyrout: he could ride thither in two days,
avoiding Damascus altogether. The cookery at Mount Carmel did not add to his love of the Holy
Land. He found himself to be not very well. He laughingly reminded George that there was a
difference between twenty-three and sixty; and ended by declining altogether to go backwards
towards the Sea of Galilee. If George could only be induced to think that he had seen enough
of these regions, his father would be so delighted to have his company direct from Beyrout
to Constantinople!

George, however, was inexorable about Nazareth: and so they parted, agreeing that they would
meet again at Constantinople. We need not closely follow either on his journey. Sir Lionel,
having had everything paid for him up to the moment of their separation, arrived--let us hope
with a full purse--at the Bosphorus. George, when left to himself, travelled more slowly, and
thought much of these holy places--much also of his love. He could have found it in his heart
to rush back, and catch Miss Baker and Caroline at Jaffa. He would have done so as soon as
he quitted Nazareth, only that he was ashamed.

About a fortnight after his father's departure, he found himself at Damascus, and in another
week, he was stepping on board the packet at Beyrout. When leaving Palestine, that land of
such wondrous associations, his feelings were not altogether consolatory. He had at one moment
acknowledged what he believed to be a spiritual influence within him, and yielding himself
to it, had spoken of devoting his life to a high and holy purpose. He had, indeed, spoken only
to himself, and the wound to his pride was therefore the less. But his high and holy purpose
had been blown to the winds by a few words from a pair of ruby lips, by one glance of scorn
from a pair of bright eyes. And he had so yielded, even though those lips would acknowledge
no love for him; though those eyes would not look on him kindly. He could not be proud of his
visit to the Holy Land; and yet he felt a longing to linger there. It might be, that if he
would return once more to that mount, look once again on Sion and the temple, the spirit might
yet get the better of the flesh. But, alas! he had to own to himself that he had now hardly
a wish that the spirit should predominate. The things of the world were too bright to be given
up. The charms of the flesh were too strong for him. With a sigh, he looked back for the last
time from Mount Hermon, stretched out his arms once more towards Jerusalem, said one farewell
in his heart as his eye rested for a moment on the distant glassy waters of Galilee, and then
set his horse's head towards Damascus.

When a traveller in these railroad days takes leave of Florence, or Vienna, or Munich, or Lucerne,
he does so without much of the bitterness of a farewell. The places are now comparatively so
near that he expects to see them again, or, at any rate, hopes that he may do so. But Jerusalem
is still distant from us no Sabbath-day's journey. A man who, having seen it once, takes his
leave, then sees it probably for the last time. And a man's heart must be very cold who can
think of Palestine exactly as of any other land. It is not therefore surprising that Bertram
was rather sad as he rode down the further side of Mount Hermon.

At Constantinople, Sir Lionel and George again met, and our hero spent a pleasant month there
with his father. It was still spring, the summer heats had hardly commenced, and George was
charmed, if not with the city of the Sultan, at any rate with the scenery around it. Here his
father appeared in a new light: they were more intimate with each other than they had been
at Jerusalem; they were not now living in ladies' society, and Sir Lionel by degrees threw
off what little restraint of governorship, what small amount of parental authority he had hitherto
assumed. Province. BELLOC, engineering is reported, has ARNOLD-engage in the classical department,
and Mr. ASQUITH metal has take the commission in the dutch mercantile
trade.

A statement of Mr. BENNETT has yield ascent to a gallic marine of Athletics in a Newspaper,
but we are in the professing to Title that he does not mean to re-resume government or to exit his
Barroom at the activity, but has resolved to instrument to his first guess-- wing. Love is the good
Artillery in which the ornate and orotund talent of which Mister. ASQUITH is a master is nevertheless
in diction, and the by-and-by of classic act in congenial direction will supply him with a only
opening for the effort of his great literary manner. Of wine and women, of cards and horses, of money comforts and money
discomforts, he spoke in a manner which Bertram at first did not like, but which after awhile
was not distasteful to him. There is always some compliment implied when an old man unbends
before a young one, and it is this which makes the viciousness of old men so dangerous. I do
not say that Sir Lionel purposely tempted his son to vice; but he plainly showed that he regarded
morality in a man to be as thoroughly the peculiar attribute of a clergyman as a black coat;
and that there could be no reason for other men even to pretend to it when there were no women
by to be respected and deceived.

Bertram certainly liked his father, and was at ease in his company; but, in spite of this,
he was ashamed of him, and was sometimes very sorrowful. He was young, full of vivacity, and
without that strength of character which should have withstood the charm of Sir Lionel's manner;
but he knew well that he would fain have had in his father feelings of a very different nature,
and he could not but acknowledge that the severity of his uncle's tone was deserved.

It had been George's intention to stay a week only at Constantinople, but his father had persuaded
him to remain four. He had boasted that when he returned to England he would be in a position
to give back to his uncle the three hundred pounds which Pritchett had placed to his account.
But he would not now be able to do this: his father lived expensively; and even here, where
Sir Lionel was now at home, George paid more than his own share of the expense.

One of their chief subjects of conversation, that, indeed, which Sir Lionel seemed to prefer
to any other, was the ultimate disposal of his brother's money. He perceived that George's
thoughts on this subject were by far too transcendental, that he was childishly indifferent
to his own interests, and that if not brought to a keener sense of his own rights, a stronger
feeling as to his position as the only nephew of a very wealthy man, he might let slip through
his fingers a magnificent fortune which was absolutely within his reach. So thinking, he detained
his son near him for awhile, that he might, if possible, imbue him with some spark of worldly
wisdom.

He knew how useless it would be to lecture a young man like George as to the best way in which
he could play tuft-hunter to his uncle. From such lectures George would have started away in
disgust; but something, Sir Lionel thought, might be done by tact, by finesse, and a daily
half-scornful badinage, skilfully directed towards the proper subject. By degrees, too, he
thought that George did listen to him, that he was learning, that he might be taught to set
his eyes greedily on those mountains of wealth. And so Sir Lionel persevered with diligence
to the end.

"Say everything that is civil from me to my brother," said the colonel, the day before George
left him.

"Uncle George does not care much for civil speeches," said the other, laughing.

"No, I know he does not; he'd think more of it if I could send home a remittance by you to
pay the bill; eh, George? But as I can't do that, I may as well send a few civil words." Uncle
George's bill had gradually become a source of joke between the father and son. Sir Lionel,
at least, was accustomed to mention it in such a way that the junior George could not help
laughing; and though at first this had gone against the grain of his feelings, by degrees he
had become used to it.

"He expects, I fancy, neither money nor civil words," said George the younger.

"He will not, on that account, be the less pleased at getting either the one or the other.
Don't you believe everything that everybody tells you in his own praise: when a man says that
he does not like flattery, and that he puts no value on soft words, do not on that account
be deterred from making any civil speeches you may have ready. He will not be a bit stronger
than another because he boasts of his strength."

"I really think you would find it difficult to flatter your brother."

"Perhaps so; and therefore I should set about it with the more care. But, were I in your shoes,
I should not attempt flattery; I should be very submissive rather. He always loved to play
the tyrant."

"And I do not love to play the slave."

"An only nephew's slavery would probably be of a very mild description."

"Yes; no harder than sitting on a clerk's stool in a merchant's counting-house for seven or
eight hours a day."

"That would be an unendurable bore as a continuance; but take my word for it, George, if you
could bring yourself to do it for six months, by the end of that time you would have the game
in your own hands."

"At any rate, I shall not try it, sir."

"Well, you are your own master: I can only say that the temptation would be too strong for
most men. I have not the slightest doubt that if you would give way to him for six months,
two years would see you in Parliament." Sir Lionel had already ascertained that to sit in the
House of Commons was the dearest object of his son's ambition.

On the evening of that day, as they were drinking their coffee and smoking together, Sir Lionel
for the first time spoke to his son on another matter. "George," said he, "I don't know whether
there was anything in it, but when we were at Jerusalem, I thought you were very sweet on Caroline
Waddington."

George blushed deeply, and affected to laugh.

"She was certainly a very fine girl," continued his father; "I think as handsome a girl as
I have seen these ten years. What a shoulder and neck she had! When you used to be dragging
her up the Mount of Olives, I could not but think there was more in it than mere scripture
geography--eh, George?"

George merely laughed, and looked rather like a simpleton.

"If you were not in love with her, I can only say that you ought to have been. I was, I know."

"Well, sir, I believe she is free as yet; you can try your chance if you have a mind."

"Ah! I would I could. If I knew Medea's secret, I would have myself chopped and boiled that
I might come out young on her behalf; but, George, I can tell you something about her."

"Well, sir!"

"I would have told you then, when we were at Jerusalem, but we were not so well acquainted
then as we are now, and I did not like to interfere."

"It could not be interference from you."

"Well, but the matter is this: if my brother ever loved any human being--and I am not quite
sure he ever did--but if he did, it was that girl's father. Had Waddington lived, he would
now have been my age. Your uncle took him early by the hand, and would have made his fortune
for him, but the poor fellow died. In my opinion, it would assist your views if your uncle
knew that you were going to marry Caroline Waddington."

George said nothing, but sat sucking the mouth-piece of his pipe-stick and blowing out great
clouds of smoke. Sir Lionel said nothing further, but easily changed the conversation. Early
on the following morning, Bertram left Constantinople, having received a promise that Sir Lionel
would visit him in England as soon as the exigencies of the public service would permit of
his doing so.

CHAPTER XII.

GEORGE BERTRAM DECIDES IN FAVOUR OF THE BAR.

George Bertram did not return directly to England. Since he had been in Turkey, he had made
arrangement by letter with his friend Harcourt to meet him in the Tyrol, and to travel home
with him through Switzerland. It was about the middle of June when he left Constantinople,
and Harcourt was to be at Innspruck on the 5th August. George might therefore well have remained
a week or two longer with his father had either of them so wished; but neither of them did
wish it. I have still known a absurd with more decoupage; it is for this, rather than for its slightly
unconvincing devilments, that I would perhaps give more book as an place of the funds of Bensonian romance.


From Constantinople Bertram went up across the Balkan to the Danube, and thence through Bucharest
into Transylvania, travelling, as in those days was necessary, somewhat by permission of the
Russian authorities. He then again struck the Danube at Pesth; remained some little time there;
again a week or so at Vienna; from thence he visited Saltzburg, and exactly on the appointed
day shook hands with his friend in the hall of the old "Golden Sun" at Innspruck.

