In order not to hurry matters too much, I took a turn to La Ferme, and then came back to Marly
just as the King arrived.  Here I had a little alarm, which did not, however, discourage me.
I learned, in fact, that one day the Duchesse de Bourgogne, urged perhaps rather too much on
the subject of Mademoiselle by Madame d'O, and somewhat annoyed, had shown an inclination for
a foreign marriage.  Would to God that such a marriage could have been brought about!  I should
always have preferred it, but there were many reasons to render it impossible.

On my arrival at Marly, I found everything in trouble there: the King so chagrined that he
could not hide it--although usually a master of himself and of his face: the Court believing
that some new disaster had happened which would unwillingly be declared.  Four or five days
passed in this way: at last it became known what was in the wind.  The King, informed that
Paris and all the public were murmuring loudly about the expenses of Marly--at a time when
it was impossible to meet the most indispensable claims of a necessary and unfortunate war--was
more annoyed this time than on any other occasion, although he had often received the same
warnings.  Madame de Maintenon had the greatest difficulty to hinder him from returning straight
to Versailles.  The upshot was that the King declared with a sort of bitter joy, that he would
no longer feed the ladies at Marly; that for the future he would dine alone, simply, as at
Versailles; that he would sup every day at a table for sixteen with his family, and that the
spare places should be occupied by ladies invited in the morning; that the Princesses of his
family should each have a table for the ladies they brought with them; and that Mesdames Voysin
and Desmarets should each have one for the ladies who did not choose to eat in their own rooms.
He added bitterly, that by making retrenchments at Marly he should not spend more there than
at Versailles, so that he could go there when he pleased without being exposed to the blame
of any one. He deceived himself from one end of this business to the other, but nobody but
himself was deceived, if indeed he was in any other way but in expecting to deceive the world.
The truth is, that no change was made at Marly, except in name.  The same expenses went on.
The enemies insultingly ridiculed these retrenchments.  The King's subjects did not cease to
complain.

About this time an invitation to Marly having been obtained by Madame la Duchesse for her daughters,
Mademoiselles de Bourbon and de Charolois, the King offered one to Mademoiselle.  This offer
was discussed before the Duc and Duchesse d'Orleans and me.  We at last resolved to leave Mademoiselle
at Versailles; and not to be troubled by seeing Mademoiselle de Bourbon passing her days in
the same salon, often at the same play- table with the Duc de Berry, making herself admired
by the Court, fluttering round Monseigneur, and accustoming the eye of the King to her. We
knew that these trifles would not bring about a marriage; and it was still more important not
to give up Mademoiselle to the malignity of the Court, to exposure, and complaints, from which
it might not always be possible to protect her.

But I had felt that it was necessary to act vigorously, and pressed the Duc d'Orleans to speak
to the King.  To my surprise he suddenly heaped up objections, derived from the public disasters,
with which a princely marriage would contrast disagreeably.  The Duchesse d'Orleans was strangely
staggered by this admission; it only angered me.  I answered by repeating all my arguments.
At last he gave way, and agreed to write to the King.  Here, again, I had many difficulties
to overcome, and was obliged, in fact, to write the letter myself, and dictate it to him. 
He made one or two changes; and at last signed and sealed it.  But I had the greatest difficulty
yet in inciting him to give it to the King.  I had to follow him, to urge him, to pique him,
almost to push him into the presence.  The King received the letter very graciously; it had
its effect; and the marriage was resolved on.

When the preliminaries were settled, the Duc and Duchesse d'Orleans began to show their desire
that Madame de Saint-Simon should be lady of honour to their daughter when she had become the
Duchesse de Berry.  I was far from flattered by this distinction and refused as best I might.
Madame de Saint-Simon went to have an audience of the Duchesse de Bourgogne, and asked not
to be appointed; but her objections were not listened to, or listened to with astonishment.
Meanwhile I endeavoured to bring about a reconciliation of the Duc d'Orleans with La Choin;
but utterly failed. La Choin positively refused to have anything to do with the Duke and Duchess.
I was much embarrassed to communicate this news to them, to whom I was attached.  It was necessary;
however, to do so.  I hastened to Saint-Cloud, and found the Duc and Duchesse d'Orleans at
table with Mademoiselle and some ladies in a most delightful menagerie, adjoining the railing
of the avenue near the village, with a charming pleasure- garden attached to it.  All this
belonged, under the name of Mademoiselle, to Madame de Mare, her governess.  I sat down and
chatted with them; but the impatience of the Duc d'Orleans to learn the news could not be checked.
He asked me if I was very satisfied.  "Middling," I replied, not to spoil his dinner; but he
rose at once and took me into the garden.  He was much affected to hear of the ill-success
of my negotiation; and returned downcast to table.  I took the first opportunity to blame his
impatience, and the facility with which he allowed the impressions he received to appear. 
Always in extreme, he said he cared not; and talked wildly of planting cabbages--talk in which
he indulged often without meaning anything.

Soon after, M. le Duc d'Orleans went aside with Mademoiselle, and I found myself placed accidentally
near Madame de Fontaine-Martel.  She was a great friend of mine, and much attached to M. d'Orleans;
and it was by her means that I had become friendly with the Duke.  She felt at once that something
was going on; and did not doubt that the marriage of Mademoiselle was on the carpet.  She said
so, but I did not answer, yet without assuming an air of reserve that would have convinced
her.  Taking her text from the presence of M. le Duc d'Orleans with Mademoiselle, she said
to me confidentially, that it would be well to hasten this marriage if it was possible, because
all sorts of horrible things were invented to prevent it; and without waiting to be too much
pressed, she told me that the most abominable stories were in circulation as to the friendship
of father and daughter.  The hair of my head stood on end.  I now felt more heavily than ever
with what demons we had to do; and how necessary it was to hurry on matters.  For this reason,
after we had walked about a good deal after dark, I again spoke with M. d'Orleans, and told
him that if, before the end of this voyage to Marly, he did not carry the declaration of his
daughter's marriage, it would never take place.

I persuaded him; and left him more animated and encouraged than I had seen him.  He amused
himself I know not in what other part of the house. I then talked a little with Madame de Mare,
my relation and friend, until I was told that Madame de Fontaine-Martel wished to speak to
me in the chateau.  When I went there I was taken to the cabinet of the Duchesse d'Orleans,
when I learnt that she had just been made acquainted with the abominable reports spread against
her husband and daughter.  We deplored together the misfortune of having to do with such furies.
The Duchess protested that there was not even any seeming in favour of these calumnies.  The
Duke had ever tenderly loved his daughter from the age of two years, when he was nearly driven
to despair by a serious illness she had, during which he watched her night and day; and this
tenderness had gone on increasing day by day, so that he loved her more than his son. We agreed
that it would be cruel, wicked, and dangerous to tell M. d'Orleans what was said.

At length the decisive blow was struck.  The King had an interview with Monseigneur; and told
him he had determined on the marriage, begging him to make up his mind as soon as possible.
The declaration was soon made. What must have been the state of Madame la Duchesse!  I never
knew what took place in her house at this strange moment; and would have dearly paid for a
hiding-place behind the tapestry.  As for Monseigneur, as soon as his original repugnance was
overcome, and he saw that it was necessary to comply, he behaved very well.  He received the
Duc and Duchesse d'Orleans very well, and kissed her and drank their health and that of all
the family cheerfully.  They were extremely delighted and surprised.

My next visit to Saint-Cloud was very different from that in which I reported the failure of
my endeavours with Mademoiselle Choin.  I was received in triumph before a large company. 
To my surprise, Mademoiselle, as soon as I appeared, ran towards me, kissed me on both cheeks,
took me by the hand, and led me into the orangery.  Then she thanked me, and admitted that
her father had constantly kept her acquainted with all the negotiations as they went on.  I
could not help blaming his easiness and imprudence.  She mingled all with testimonies of the
most lively joy; and I was surprised by her grace, her eloquence, the dignity and the propriety
of the terms she used.  I learned an immense number of things in this half-hour's conversation.
Afterwards Mademoiselle took the opportunity to say and do all manner of graceful things to
Madame de Saint-Simon.

The Duchesse d'Orleans now returned once more to the charge, in order to persuade my wife to
be dame d'honneur to her daughter.  I refused as firmly as I could.  But soon after the King
himself named Madame de Saint-Simon; and when the Duchesse de Bourgogne suggested a doubt of
her acceptance, exclaimed, almost piqued: "Refuse!  O, no!  not when she learns that it is
my desire."  In fact, I soon received so many menacing warnings that I was obliged to give
in; and Madame de Saint-Simon received the appointment.  This was made publicly known by the
King, who up to that very morning remained doubtful whether he would be met by a refusal or
not; and who, as he was about to speak, looked at me with a smile that was meant to please
and warn me to be silent.  Madame de Saint-Simon learned the news with tears.  She was excellently
well received by the King, and complimented agreeably by Madame de Maintenon.

The marriage took place with the usual ceremonies.  The Duc de Beauvilliers and Madame de Saint-Simon
drew the curtains of the couple when they went to bed; and laughed together at being thus employed.
The King, who had given a very mediocre present of diamonds to the new Duchesse de Berry, gave
nothing to the Duc de Berry.  The latter had so little money that he could not play during
the first days of the voyage to Marly.  The Duchesse de Bourgogne told this to the King, who,
feeling the state in which he himself was, said that he had only five hundred pistoles to give
him.  He gave them with an excuse on the misfortunes of the time, because the Duchesse de Bourgogne
thought with reason that a little was better than nothing, and that it was insufferable not
to be able to play.

Madame de Mare was now set at liberty.  The place of Dame d'Atours was offered to her; but
she advanced many reasons for not accepting it, and on being pressed, refused with an obstinacy
that surprised every one. We were not long in finding out the cause of her obstinate unwillingness
to remain with Madame la Duchesse de Berry.  The more that Princess allowed people to see what
she was--and she never concealed herself--the more we saw that Madame de Mare was in the right;
and the more we admired the miracle of care and prudence which had prevented anything from
coming to light; and the more we felt how blindly people act in what they desire with the most
eagerness, and achieve with much trouble and much joy; and the more we deplored having succeeded
in an affair which, so far from having undertaken and carried out as I did, I should have traversed
with still greater zeal, even if Mademoiselle de Bourbon had profited thereby without knowing
it, if I had known half a quarter--what do I say?  the thousandth part--of what we unhappily
witnessed!  I shall say no more for the present; and as I go on, I shall only say what cannot
be concealed; and I say thus much so soon merely because the strange things that soon happened
began to develop themselves a little during this first voyage to Marly.

CHAPTER LII

On Saturday, the 15th of February, the King was waked up at seven o'clock in the morning, an
hour earlier than usual, because Madame la Duchesse de Bourgogne was in the pains of labour.
He dressed himself diligently in order to go to her.  She did not keep him waiting long.  At
three minutes and three seconds after eight o'clock, she brought into the world a Duc d'Anjou,
who is the King Louis XV., at present reigning, which caused a great joy.  This Prince was
soon after sprinkled by Cardinal de Janson in the chamber where he was born, and then carried
upon the knees of the Duchesse de Ventadour in the sedan chair of the King into the King's
apartments, accompanied by the Marechal de Boufflers and by the body- guards with officers.
A little while after La Villiere carried to him the cordon bleu, and all the Court went to
see him, two things which much displeased his brother, who did not scruple to show it.  Madame
de Saint- Simon, who was in the chamber of Madame la Dauphine, was by chance one of the first
who saw this new-born Prince.  The accouchement passed over very well.

About this time died the Marechale de la Meilleraye, aged eighty-eight years.  She was the
paternal aunt of the Marechal de Villeroy and the Duc de Brissac, his brother-in-law.  It was
she who unwittingly put the cap on MM. de Brissac, which they have ever since worn in their
arms, and which has been imitated.  She was walking in a picture gallery of her ancestors one
day with her niece, a lively, merry person, whom she obliged to salute and be polite to each
portrait, and who in pleasant revenge persuaded her that one of the said portraits wore a cap
which proved him to be an Italian Prince.  She swallowed this, and had the cap introduced into
her, arms, despite her family, who are now obliged to keep it, but who always call it, "My
Aunt's cap."  On another occasion, people were speaking in her presence of the death of the
Chevalier de Savoie, brother of the Comte de Soissons, and of the famous Prince Eugene, who
died very young, very suddenly, very debauched; and full of benefices.  The talk became religious.
She listened some time, and then, with a profound look of conviction, said: "For my part, I
am persuaded that God will think twice about damning a man of such high birth as that!"  This
caused a burst of laughter, but nothing could make her change her opinion.  Her vanity was
cruelly punished.  She used to affect to apologise for having married the Marechal de la Meilleraye.
After his death, being in love with Saint-Ruth, her page, she married him; but took care not
to disclose her marriage for fear of losing her distinction at Court.  Saint-Ruth was a very
honourable gentleman, very poor, tall, and well made, whom everybody knew; extremely ugly--I
don't know whether he became so after his marriage.  He was a worthy man and a good soldier.
But he was also a rough customer, and when his distinguished wife annoyed him he twirled his
cudgel and belaboured her soundly.  This went so far that the Marechale, not being able to
stand it any longer, demanded an audience of the King, admitted her weakness and her shame,
and implored his protection.  The King kindly promised to set matters to rights.  He soundly
rated Saint-Ruth in his cabinet, and forbade him to ill-treat the Marechale.  But what is bred
in the bone will never get out of the flesh. The Marechale came to make fresh complaints. 
The King grew angry in earnest, and threatened Saint-Ruth.  This kept him quiet for some time.
But the habit of the stick was too powerful; and he flourished it again. The Marechale flew
as usual to the King, who, seeing that Saint-Ruth was incorrigible, was good enough to send
him to Guyenne under pretence, of employment.  Afterwards he was sent to Ireland; where he
was killed.

The Marechale de la Meilleraye had been perfectly beautiful, and was full of wit.  She so turned
the head of the Cardinal de Retz, that he wanted to turn everything topsy-turvy in France,
in order to make himself, a necessary man and force the King to use his influence at Rome in
order to obtain a dispensation by which he (the Cardinal) should be allowed, though a priest--and
a consecrated bishop, to marry the Marechale de la Meilleraye while her husband was alive and
she on very good terms with him!  This madness is inconceivable and yet existed.

I have described in its place the disgrace of Cardinal de Bouillon, and the banishment to which
he was sentenced.  Exile did not improve him. He languished in weariness and rage, and saw
no hope that his position would ever change.  Incapable of repose, he had passed all his long
enforced leisure in a monastic war.  The monks of Cluni were his antagonists.  He was constantly
bringing actions against them, which they as constantly defended.  He accused them of revolt--they
accused him of scheming.  They profited by his disgrace, and omitted nothing to shake off the
yoke which, when in favour, he had imposed on them.  These broils went on, until at last a
suit, which Cardinal de Bouillon had commenced against the refractory monks, and which had
been carried into Grand Council of Paris, was decided against him, notwithstanding all the
efforts he made to obtain a contrary verdict.  This was the last drop which made the too full
cup overflow, and which consummated the resolution that Cardinal had long since had in his
head, and which he now executed.

By the terms of his exile, he was allowed to visit, without restraint, his various abbeys,
situated in different parts of the realm.  He took advantage of this privilege, gave out that
he was going to Normandy, but instead of doing so, posted away to Picardy, stopped briefly
at Abbeville, gained Arras, where he had the Abbey of Saint-Waast, thence feigning to go and
see his abbey of Vigogne, he passed over into the camp of the enemy, and threw himself into
the arms of the Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene.  The Prince d'Auvergne, his nephew,
had deserted from France in a similar manner some time before, as I have related in its place,
and was in waiting to receive the Cardinal, who was also very graciously welcomed by Prince
Eugene and the Duke of Marlborough, who introduced him to the heads of the army, and lavished
upon him the greatest honours.

