Instead of going directly to St. Pol, for some reason or other,    (p. 161) the train started
off to the South. We travelled on and on at a snail's pace, and had frequent and lengthy stops.
When the light died away, we should have been in complete darkness if one of the officers had
not brought a candle with him. Hour after hour passed by and we began to get hungry. Somebody
had some sandwiches and a piece of cake, and this was shared by all the company. It served
to stimulate rather than soothe the appetite. About midnight to our astonishment we found we
had got to Canaples, where I had stayed when we were going to the Somme. Someone said there
had been a railway accident and we had to travel by branch lines. In spite of the cold, we
tried to sleep. I sat between my parson friend, who was inclined to be stout, and another officer
who was remarkably angular. When I leaned upon my corpulent friend, his frequent fits of coughing
made my head bounce as though it were resting on an air-cushion. When I got tired of this and
leaned against my angular friend on the other side, the jolting of the carriage scraped my
ear against his ribs. I spent the night by leaning first on one companion, and then on the
other. The morning found us still travelling, and finally at half-past ten the train drew up
once more at our starting point in Abbeville station. Having been eighteen hours without food
or drink or the opportunity of a shave, I thought it was about time to retire, and told my
companions that life was too short to spend it in railway journeys of that description. So,
with a feeling of superiority and independence which made the others green with envy, I bid
them good-bye. I never heard any more of my friends, but, although the war has long since ended,
I have a sort of dim impression in my mind that they are still travelling round and round and
coming back to Abbeville again. I went over to the officers' club and had a good wash and luncheon,
and there meeting a very nice engineer officer, I asked him if he could tell me where I could
find any lorries going North. I told him my railway experience, and it so moved him that he
very kindly sent me off in his own car to St. Pol, where I was picked up by one of our staff
cars and taken home in time for dinner. Railway journeys in France were not things to remember
with pleasure, and if they were bad for the officers, what must they have been for the poor
men in the crowded third-class carriages?

At the end of January, our pleasant life at Bruay came to an end, and we moved off to Barlin
which was to be our headquarters for a      (p. 162) month and a half. It was while we were
there that I had an attack of trench-fever, which, like being "crummy," is really part of a
complete war experience. Barlin was not a bad place of residence. There were many men within
easy reach, and I had an upper room in the Town Hall for use as a chapel. The presence of a
well equipped British hospital also gave one opportunities of seeing our wounded men. We had
come to know by this time that the first task which lay before us in the opening of spring
was the taking of Vimy Ridge, and our life became filled with fresh zest and interest in view
of the coming attack.

On the 15th of March our Division moved up to a place called Ecoivres, where we were billeted
in the old Château. The Count who owned the Château kept some rooms downstairs for himself,
but we occupied all the rest of the building. In the hall upstairs we had a large model of
Vimy Ridge, which all the officers and men of the battalions visited in turn, in order to study
the character of the land over which they had to charge. In the garden were numerous huts,
and in a large building in a street to the right of the Château was a billet which held a great
number of men. It was almost entirely filled up with tiers upon tiers of wooden shelves, on
which the men made their beds. They were reached by wooden stairs. Nearly fifteen hundred men
were crowded into the building. On the ground floor beside the door, there was a high platform
which commanded a view of the whole interior. On this, one of the bands lived and gave us music
in the evening. Every night after dinner, I used to go to the cinema, as we called the place,
and have either a service or a talk with the men on general subjects. At such times outsiders
would crowd in, and we have had very hearty singing when the band struck up a hymn. I always
tried to have some piece of good news to announce, and would get the latest reports from the
signallers to read aloud. The men were in splendid spirits, and we were all buoyed up with
the hope that we were going to end the war. I used to speak about the war outlook, and would
tell the men that there were only two issues before us: Victory or Slavery. When I asked them
one night "Which shall it be, Boys?" a loud shout of "Victory!" went up.

News was not always plentiful, and it was a little hard at times to find anything particularly
interesting to say, and so, one night I determined to make a variation. I told the men that
on the next evening, if they would bring in questions to me on any subject which had been troubling
them, I should be very glad to try to give an   (p. 163) answer. I thought that an entertainment
of that kind might be both attractive and helpful. On the next evening, therefore, I ascended
the platform as usual and found the place crowded with men. I had my acetylene lamp with me
to furnish light for reading any questions that might be sent up. I called the meeting to order,
and then asked if any men had any questions to ask. To my great delight, someone at the back
held an envelope above the crowd, and it was passed up to me. I tore it open, and, holding
my lamp in one hand, without first looking over the letter, I read it aloud to the men, who
were hushed in the silence of anticipation. I give it just as it was written:--

                                                  "Somewhere in France,
                                                                3/4/17.
    Dear Sir:--

    I am going to ask you a question which has been a load to my
    little bit of mental capacity for a period of months. Often have I
    woke up in the old dugout, my hair standing straight up and one
    eye looking straight into the eyeball of the other, trying to
    obtain an answer to this burning question. I have kept my weary
    vigil over the parapet at night, with my rifle in one hand and a
    couple of bombs in the other, and two or three in each pocket, and
    still I am pondering over this burning question. I will now ask
    you the question. When do you think this God dam war will be over,
    eh?"

I never was so completely taken aback in all my life. A roar of laughter burst from the men,
in which I joined heartily. From the tiers of bunks and every part of the building, cheers
went up, and we had one of the pleasantest evenings in that old cinema that we had ever experienced.
I do not know who the man was who sent the letter, or whether he is alive now. If he is, I
wish he would write to me. I want to thank him for giving us all a good, hearty laugh at that
time of preparation and anxiety. I keep the letter among my most treasured war souvenirs.

The winter rains had not improved the roads, but still day and night, through mud and water,
a constant stream of vehicles of all descriptions passed up towards the front carrying ammunition.
Ammunition was everywhere. At certain places it was stacked along the roads. The strain upon
the horses was very great, and numbers of them died,   (p. 164) and their bodies lay by the
wayside for many days, no one having time to bury them.

It was perfectly impossible to get any place in which to hold Communion services, so, with
the permission of the family who owned it, I made use of a little Gothic shrine near the church,
which stood over a family vault. It was a miniature chapel, and had an altar in it. The glass
in the coloured windows had been broken, but we replaced it by canvas. I hung upon the wall
outside the board which I used as a sign, with the words "St. George's Church" upon it. In
this little building every morning at eight o'clock I had a celebration of Holy Communion,
and I always had some men attending.

Our trenches were tolerably quiet, and lay beyond the Arras-Bethune Road. At a place called
Maison Blanche there was a large cavern which was used as a billet for one of the battalions
in reserve. Some strange stories were told about the fighting that had taken place in it between
the French and the Germans at the beginning of the war. I went down into it one evening when
the 16th Battalion was there. It was a most picturesque place. The walls and roof were white
chalk and the place was cut up by passages and openings which led into other caves. The atmosphere
was smoky, and a multitude of candles lit up the strange abode. The men were cooking in their
mess tins, some were playing cards, and some were examining the seams of their shirts. I told
them I was going to have a service at one end of the cavern and I proceeded thither with a
good number following. Some of the card players seemed too interested in their game to care
to attend, and so I called out to the men in a loud voice not to make too much noise, lest
they should disturb the gamblers. One of the men who was playing cards responded "If you will
wait till we have finished this hand, Sir, we will all come too." I made the announcement therefor
that we would not begin till the players were ready. The result of this was that in a very
little while all the men came and joined in the service.

The possession of the Ridge gave the Germans a great advantage, because it commanded a view
of a very large piece of country and several main roads. Further up the road from Maison Blanche
there was a place called Arriane Dump, where the Engineers had stored material in preparation
for our attack. A long plank road connected it with the Anzin-St. Eloi road. On a dark and
rainy night that wooden track   (p. 165) was an unpleasant place for a walk. Lorries, wagons,
limbers, transports, horses and men crowded it, and the traffic every now and then would get
blocked. No flashlights could be used, and it was hard to escape being run over. Yet to step
off the boards meant to sink almost to your knees in mud. The language that one heard at such
times in the darkness was not quite fit for ears polite. It is well that the horses were not
able to understand the uncomplimentary speeches that were addressed to them.

There was a tremendous concentration of artillery in the back area. The town of Anzin, on the
bank of the river Scarpe, was filled with heavy batteries. To ride through it was to run the
risk of many unpleasant surprises from the sudden firing of big guns by the wayside. Once,
I was approaching an apparently harmless hole in a brick wall, when all of a sudden Dandy and
I found ourselves enveloped in flame and almost stunned by a huge report. As we bounded past
the hole, I saw a large gun moving up and down under the force of its recoil, and with smoke
still curling out of its mouth.

The siege battery in which my third son was a gunner had now arrived and taken up its position
in a field behind Anzin, where a 15-inch howitzer sent forth its deadly missives to the Germans
every fifteen minutes and in return drew their fire. One day a shell burst in a hut used by
some Railway Troops. A large number of them were wounded and eleven killed, whom I buried in
a row on the hillside.

On the 4th of April, we received news that America had declared war upon Germany. I thanked
God in my heart that at last the English-speaking world had been drawn together, and I knew
that the effect upon the Germans would be disastrous. I rode out that afternoon to give the
good news to our men. I met a British Battalion coming out of the line, looking very tired
and hungry. They were resting by the roadside, and I passed along and cheered them by telling
them that the United States had now come in definitely as one of our Allies, and that I thought
the effect would be the shortening of the war. America's decision could not have come at a
better time. The year was opening out before us, and the initiative was coming into our hands
The prospect was bright and our men were keen for the encounter.

April 6th was Good Friday. It was impossible to have service at    (p. 166) Ecoivres, as everyone
was so busy, so I rode over to Anzin and had service for the 7th Siege Battery in an empty
Nissen hut. Most of the men of the battery were present, and I had forty communicants. The
place was lit by candles which every now and then were extinguished by the firing of the fifteen-inch
gun nearby. Easter Day was originally intended to be the day for our attack, but it had been
postponed till Monday. We could not do much in the way of observing the great feast. Every
room and shed in the town was filled, and men were lying out under rubber sheets in the fields.
I had two celebrations of the Holy Communion in the Y.M.C.A. hut, the floor of which was covered
with sleeping men. I managed to clear a little space on the stage for the altar. Of course,
not many attended, but at one of the services was an officer who had won the V.C. and the D.S.O.
and had a foreign Decoration as well. In the afternoon I visited and gave an address to one
of the battalions moving up the line. I also had a service in the cinema that evening.

It was a time of mingled anxiety and exhilaration. What did the next twenty-four hours hold
in store for us? Was it to be a true Easter for the world, and a resurrection to a new and
better life? If death awaited us, what nobler passage could there be to Eternity than such
a death in such a cause? Never was the spirit of comradeship higher in the Canadian Corps.
Never was there a greater sense of unity. The task laid upon us was a tremendous one, but in
the heart of each man, from private to general, was the determination that it should be performed.
On that Easter night, the battalions took their places in the line. The men at the guns, which
had hitherto been concealed and kept silent, were ready to open fire at zero hour, and all
along that front the eager heart of Canada waited impatiently for the dawn.

CHAPTER XVI.                                                       (p. 167)

THE CAPTURE OF VIMY RIDGE.

April 9th, 1917.

My alarm clock went off at four a.m. on the great day of April 9th, which will always shine
brightly in the annals of the war. I got up and ate the breakfast which I had prepared the
night before, and taking with me my tin of bully-beef, I started off to see the opening barrage.
It was quite dark when I emerged from the door of the Château and passed the sentry at the
gate. I went through the village of Ecoivres, past the Crucifix by the cemetery, and then turning
to the right went on to a path which led up to Bray Hill on the St. Eloi road. I found some
men of one of our battalions bent on the same enterprise. We got into the field and climbed
the hill, and there on the top of it waited for the attack to begin. The sky was overcast,
but towards the east the grey light of approaching dawn was beginning to appear. It was a thrilling
moment. Human lives were at stake. The honour of our country was at stake. The fate of civilization
was at stake.

