 By this inflexible and sullen attachment,
we shall be despised by our countrymen, and destroyed by our ancient friends; whatever we may
say, whatever merit we may claim, will not shelter us from those indiscriminate blows, given
by hired banditti, animated by all those passions which urge men to shed the blood of others;
how bitter the thought! On the contrary, blows received by the hands of those from whom we
expected protection, extinguish ancient respect, and urge us to self-defence- -perhaps to revenge;
this is the path which nature herself points out, as well to the civilised as to the uncivilised.
The Creator of hearts has himself stamped on them those propensities at their first formation;
and must we then daily receive this treatment from a power once so loved? The Fox flies or
deceives the hounds that pursue him; the bear, when overtaken, boldly resists and attacks them;
the hen, the very timid hen, fights for the preservation of her chickens, nor does she decline
to attack, and to meet on the wing even the swift kite. Shall man, then, provided both with
instinct and reason, unmoved, unconcerned, and passive, see his subsistence consumed, and his
progeny either ravished from him or murdered? Shall fictitious reason extinguish the unerring
impulse of instinct? No; my former respect, my former attachment vanishes with my safety; that
respect and attachment was purchased by protection, and it has ceased. Could not the great
nation we belong to have accomplished her designs by means of her numerous armies, by means
of those fleets which cover the ocean? Must those who are masters of two thirds of the trade
of the world; who have in their hands the power which almighty gold can give; who possess a
species of wealth that increases with their desires; must they establish their conquest with
our insignificant innocent blood!

Must I then bid farewell to Britain, to that renowned country? Must I renounce a name so ancient
and so venerable? Alas, she herself, that once indulgent parent, forces me to take up arms
against her. She herself, first inspired the most unhappy citizens of our remote districts,
with the thoughts of shedding the blood of those whom they used to call by the name of friends
and brethren. That great nation which now convulses the world; which hardly knows the extent
of her Indian kingdoms; which looks toward the universal monarchy of trade, of industry, of
riches, of power: why must she strew our poor frontiers with the carcasses of her friends,
with the wrecks of our insignificant villages, in which there is no gold? When, oppressed by
painful recollection, I revolve all these scattered ideas in my mind, when I contemplate my
situation, and the thousand streams of evil with which I am surrounded; when I descend into
the particular tendency even of the remedy I have proposed, I am convulsed-- convulsed sometimes
to that degree, as to be tempted to exclaim--Why has the master of the world permitted so much
indiscriminate evil throughout every part of this poor planet, at all times, and among all
kinds of people? It ought surely to be the punishment of the wicked only. I bring that cup
to my lips, of which I must soon taste, and shudder at its bitterness. What then is life, I
ask myself, is it a gracious gift? No, it is too bitter; a gift means something valuable conferred,
but life appears to be a mere accident, and of the worst kind: we are born to be victims of
diseases and passions, of mischances and death: better not to be than to be miserable.--Thus
impiously I roam, I fly from one erratic thought to another, and my mind, irritated by these
acrimonious reflections, is ready sometimes to lead me to dangerous extremes of violence. When
I recollect that I am a father, and a husband, the return of these endearing ideas strikes
deep into my heart. Alas! they once made it to glow with pleasure and with every ravishing
exultation; but now they fill it with sorrow. At other times, my wife industriously rouses
me out of these dreadful meditations, and soothes me by all the reasoning she is mistress of;
but her endeavours only serve to make me more miserable, by reflecting that she must share
with all these calamities, the bare apprehensions of which I am afraid will subvert her reason.
Nor can I with patience think that a beloved wife, my faithful help-mate, throughout all my
rural schemes, the principal hand which has assisted me in rearing the prosperous fabric of
ease and independence I lately possessed, as well as my children, those tenants of my heart,
should daily and nightly be exposed to such a cruel fate. Selfpreservation is above all political
precepts and rules, and even superior to the dearest opinions of our minds; a reasonable accommodation
of ourselves to the various exigencies of the time in which we live, is the most irresistible
precept. To this great evil I must seek some sort of remedy adapted to remove or to palliate
it; situated as I am, what steps should I take that will neither injure nor insult any of the
parties, and at the same time save my family from that certain destruction which awaits it,
if I remain here much longer. Could I insure them bread, safety, and subsistence, not the bread
of idleness, but that earned by proper labour as heretofore; could this be accomplished by
the sacrifice of my life, I would willingly give it up. I attest before heaven, that it is
only for these I would wish to live and to toil: for these whom I have brought into this miserable
existence. I resemble, methinks, one of the stones of a ruined arch, still retaining that pristine
form that anciently fitted the place I occupied, but the centre is tumbled down; I can be nothing
until I am replaced, either in the former circle, or in some stronger one. I see one on a smaller
scale, and at a considerable distance, but it is within my power to reach it: and since I have
ceased to consider myself as a member of the ancient state now convulsed, I willingly descend
into an inferior one. I will revert into a state approaching nearer to that of nature, unencumbered
either with voluminous laws, or contradictory codes, often galling the very necks of those
whom they protect; and at the same time sufficiently remote from the brutality of unconnected
savage nature. Do you, my friend, perceive the path I have found out? it is that which leads
to the tenants of the great------village of------, where, far removed from the accursed neighbourhood
of Europeans, its inhabitants live with more ease, decency, and peace, than you imagine: where,
though governed by no laws, yet find, in uncontaminated simple manners all that laws can afford.
Their system is sufficiently complete to answer all the primary wants of man, and to constitute
him a social being, such as he ought to be in the great forest of nature. There it is that
I have resolved at any rate to transport myself and family: an eccentric thought, you may say,
thus to cut asunder all former connections, and to form new ones with a people whom nature
has stamped with such different characteristics! But as the happiness of my family is the only
object of my wishes, I care very little where we be, or where we go, provided that we are safe,
and all united together. Our new calamities being shared equally by all, will become lighter;
our mutual affection for each other, will in this great transmutation become the strongest
link of our new society, will afford us every joy we can receive on a foreign soil, and preserve
us in unity, as the gravity and coherency of matter prevents the world from dissolution. Blame
me not, it would be cruel in you, it would beside be entirely useless; for when you receive
this we shall be on the wing. When we think all hopes are gone, must we, like poor pusillanimous
wretches, despair and die? No; I perceive before me a few resources, though through many dangers,
which I will explain to you hereafter. It is not, believe me, a disappointed ambition which
leads me to take this step, it is the bitterness of my situation, it is the impossibility of
knowing what better measure to adopt: my education fitted me for nothing more than the most
simple occupations of life; I am but a feller of trees, a cultivator of land, the most honourable
title an American can have. I have no exploits, no discoveries, no inventions to boast of;
I have cleared about 370 acres of land, some for the plough, some for the scythe; and this
has occupied many years of my life. I have never possessed, or wish to possess anything more
than what could be earned or produced by the united industry of my family. I wanted nothing
more than to live at home independent and tranquil, and to teach my children how to provide
the means of a future ample subsistence, founded on labour, like that of their father, This
is the career of life I have pursued, and that which I had marked out for them and for which
they seemed to be so well calculated by their inclinations, and by their constitutions. But
now these pleasing expectations are gone, we must abandon the accumulated industry of nineteen
years, we must fly we hardly know whither, through the most impervious paths, and become members
of a new and strange community. Oh, virtue! is this all the reward thou hast to confer on thy
votaries? Either thou art only a chimera, or thou art a timid useless being; soon affrighted,
when ambition, thy great adversary, dictates, when war re-echoes the dreadful sounds, and poor
helpless individuals are mowed down by its cruel reapers like useless grass. I have at all
times generously relieved what few distressed people I have met with; I have encouraged the
industrious; my house has always been opened to travellers; I have not lost a month in illness
since I have been a man; I have caused upwards of an hundred and twenty families to remove
hither. Many of them I have led by the hand in the days of their first trial; distant as I
am from any places of worship or school of education, I have been the pastor of my family,
and the teacher of many of my neighbours. I have learnt them as well as I could, the gratitude
they owe to God, the father of harvests; and their duties to man: I have been as useful a subject;
ever obedient to the laws, ever vigilant to see them respected and observed. My wife hath faithfully
followed the same line within her province; no woman was ever a better economist, or spun or
wove better linen; yet we must perish, perish like wild beasts, included within a ring of fire!

Yes, I will cheerfully embrace that resource, it is an holy inspiration; by night and by day,
it presents itself to my mind: I have carefully revolved the scheme; I have considered in all
its future effects and tendencies, the new mode of living we must pursue, without salt, without
spices, without linen and with little other clothing; the art of hunting, we must acquire,
the new manners we must adopt, the new language we must speak; the dangers attending the education
of my children we must endure. These changes may appear more terrific at a distance perhaps
than when grown familiar by practice: what is it to us, whether we eat well made pastry, or
pounded alagriches; well roasted beef, or smoked venison; cabbages, or squashes? Whether we
wear neat home-spun or good beaver; whether we sleep on feather-beds, or on bear-skins? The
difference is not worth attending to. The difficulty of the language, fear of some great intoxication
among the Indians; finally, the apprehension lest my younger children should be caught by that
singular charm, so dangerous at their tender years; are the only considerations that startle
me. By what power does it come to pass, that children who have been adopted when young among
these people, can never be prevailed on to readopt European manners? Many an anxious parent
I have seen last war, who at the return of the peace, went to the Indian villages where they
knew their children had been carried in captivity; when to their inexpressible sorrow, they
found them so perfectly Indianised, that many knew them no longer, and those whose more advanced
ages permitted them to recollect their fathers and mothers, absolutely refused to follow them,
and ran to their adopted parents for protection against the effusions of love their unhappy
real parents lavished on them! Incredible as this may appear, I have heard it asserted in a
thousand instances, among persons of credit. In the village of------, where I purpose to go,
there lived, about fifteen years ago, an Englishman and a Swede, whose history would appear
moving, had I time to relate it. They were grown to the age of men when they were taken; they
happily escaped the great punishment of war captives, and were obliged to marry the Squaws
who had saved their lives by adoption. By the force of habit, they became at last thoroughly
naturalised to this wild course of life. While I was there, their friends sent them a considerable
sum of money to ransom themselves with. The Indians, their old masters, gave them their choice,
and without requiring any consideration, told them, that they had been long as free as themselves.
They chose to remain; and the reasons they gave me would greatly surprise you: the most perfect
freedom, the ease of living, the absence of those cares and corroding solicitudes which so
often prevail with us; the peculiar goodness of the soil they cultivated, for they did not
trust altogether to hunting; all these, and many more motives, which I have forgot, made them
prefer that life, of which we entertain such dreadful opinions. It cannot be, therefore, so
bad as we generally conceive it to be; there must be in their social bond something singularly
captivating, and far superior to anything to be boasted of among us; for thousands of Europeans
are Indians, and we have no examples of even one of those Aborigines having from choice become
Europeans! There must be something more congenial to our native dispositions, than the fictitious
society in which we live; or else why should children, and even grown persons, become in a
short time so invincibly attached to it? There must be something very bewitching in their manners,
something very indelible and marked by the very hands of nature. For, take a young Indian lad,
give him the best education you possibly can, load him with your bounty, with presents, nay
with riches; yet he will secretly long for his native woods, which you would imagine he must
have long since forgot; and on the first opportunity he can possibly find, you will see him
voluntarily leave behind him all you have given him, and return with inexpressible joy to lie
on the mats of his fathers. Mr.----, some years ago, received from a good old Indian, who died
in his house, a young lad, of nine years of age, his grandson. He kindly educated him with
his children, and bestowed on him the same care and attention in respect to the memory of his
venerable grandfather, who was a worthy man. He intended to give him a genteel trade, but in
the spring season when all the family went to the woods to make their maple sugar, he suddenly
disappeared; and it was not until seventeen months after, that his benefactor heard he had
reached the village of Bald Eagle, where he still dwelt. Let us say what we will of them, of
their inferior organs, of their want of bread, etc., they are as stout and well made as the
Europeans.