AARON TROW

by Anthony Trollope

I would wish to declare, at the beginning of this story, that I shall never regard that cluster
of islets which we call Bermuda as the Fortunate Islands of the ancients.  Do not let professional
geographers take me up, and say that no one has so accounted them, and that the ancients have
never been supposed to have gotten themselves so far westwards.  What I mean to assert is this--that,
had any ancient been carried thither by enterprise or stress of weather, he would not have
given those islands so good a name.  That the Neapolitan sailors of King Alonzo should have
been wrecked here, I consider to be more likely.  The vexed Bermoothes is a good name for them.
There is no getting in or out of them without the greatest difficulty, and a patient, slow
navigation, which is very heart-rending.  That Caliban should have lived here I can imagine;
that Ariel would have been sick of the place is certain; and that Governor Prospero should
have been willing to abandon his governorship, I conceive to have been only natural.  When
one regards the present state of the place, one is tempted to doubt whether any of the governors
have been conjurors since his days.

Bermuda, as all the world knows, is a British colony at which we maintain a convict establishment.
Most of our outlying convict establishments have been sent back upon our hands from our colonies,
but here one is still maintained.  There is also in the islands a strong military fortress,
though not a fortress looking magnificent to the eyes of civilians, as do Malta and Gibraltar.
There are also here some six thousand white people and some six thousand black people, eating,
drinking, sleeping, and dying.

The convict establishment is the most notable feature of Bermuda to a stranger, but it does
not seem to attract much attention from the regular inhabitants of the place.  There is no
intercourse between the prisoners and the Bermudians.  The convicts are rarely seen by them,
and the convict islands are rarely visited.  As to the prisoners themselves, of course it is
not open to them--or should not be open to them--to have intercourse with any but the prison
authorities.

There have, however, been instances in which convicts have escaped from their confinement,
and made their way out among the islands. Poor wretches!  As a rule, there is but little chance
for any that can so escape.  The whole length of the cluster is but twenty miles, and the breadth
is under four.  The prisoners are, of course, white men, and the lower orders of Bermuda, among
whom alone could a runagate have any chance of hiding himself, are all negroes; so that such
a one would be known at once.  Their clothes are all marked. Their only chance of a permanent
escape would be in the hold of an American ship; but what captain of an American or other ship
would willingly encumber himself with an escaped convict?  But, nevertheless, men have escaped;
and in one instance, I believe, a convict got away, so that of him no farther tidings were
ever heard.

For the truth of the following tale I will not by any means vouch. If one were to inquire on
the spot one might probably find that the ladies all believe it, and the old men; that all
the young men know exactly how much of it is false and how much true; and that the steady,
middle-aged, well-to-do islanders are quite convinced that it is romance from beginning to
end.  My readers may range themselves with the ladies, the young men, or the steady, well-to-
do, middle-aged islanders, as they please.

Some years ago, soon after the prison was first established on its present footing, three men
did escape from it, and among them a certain notorious prisoner named Aaron Trow.  Trow's antecedents
in England had not been so villanously bad as those of many of his fellow-convicts, though
the one offence for which he was punished had been of a deep dye:  he had shed man's blood.
At a period of great distress in a manufacturing town he had led men on to riot, and with his
own hand had slain the first constable who had endeavoured to do his duty against him.  There
had been courage in the doing of the deed, and probably no malice; but the deed, let its moral
blackness have been what it might, had sent him to Bermuda, with a sentence against him of
penal servitude for life.  Had he been then amenable to prison discipline,--even then, with
such a sentence against him as that,--he might have won his way back, after the lapse of years,
to the children, and perhaps, to the wife, that he had left behind him; but he was amenable
to no rules--to no discipline.  His heart was sore to death with an idea of injury, and he
lashed himself against the bars of his cage with a feeling that it would be well if he could
so lash himself till he might perish in his fury.

And then a day came in which an attempt was made by a large body of convicts, under his leadership,
to get the better of the officers of the prison.  It is hardly necessary to say that the attempt
failed. Such attempts always fail.  It failed on this occasion signally, and Trow, with two
other men, were condemned to be scourged terribly, and then kept in solitary confinement for
some lengthened term of months.  Before, however, the day of scourging came, Trow and his two
associates had escaped.

I have not the space to tell how this was effected, nor the power to describe the manner. 
They did escape from the establishment into the islands, and though two of them were taken
after a single day's run at liberty, Aaron Trow had not been yet retaken even when a week was
over.  When a month was over he had not been retaken, and the officers of the prison began
to say that he had got away from them in a vessel to the States.  It was impossible, they said,
that he should have remained in the islands and not been discovered.  It was not impossible
that he might have destroyed himself, leaving his body where it had not yet been found.  But
he could not have lived on in Bermuda during that month's search.  So, at least, said the officers
of the prison.  There was, however, a report through the islands that he had been seen from
time to time; that he had gotten bread from the negroes at night, threatening them with death
if they told of his whereabouts; and that all the clothes of the mate of a vessel had been
stolen while the man was bathing, including a suit of dark blue cloth, in which suit of clothes,
or in one of such a nature, a stranger had been seen skulking about the rocks near St. George.
All this the governor of the prison affected to disbelieve, but the opinion was becoming very
rife in the islands that Aaron Trow was still there.

A vigilant search, however, is a task of great labour, and cannot be kept up for ever.  By
degrees it was relaxed.  The warders and gaolers ceased to patrol the island roads by night,
and it was agreed that Aaron Trow was gone, or that he would be starved to death, or that he
would in time be driven to leave such traces of his whereabouts as must lead to his discovery;
and this at last did turn out to be the fact.

There is a sort of prettiness about these islands which, though it never rises to the loveliness
of romantic scenery, is nevertheless attractive in its way.  The land breaks itself into little
knolls, and the sea runs up, hither and thither, in a thousand creeks and inlets; and then,
too, when the oleanders are in bloom, they give a wonderfully bright colour to the landscape.
Oleanders seem to be the roses of Bermuda, and are cultivated round all the villages of the
better class through the islands.  There are two towns, St. George and Hamilton, and one main
high-road, which connects them; but even this high-road is broken by a ferry, over which every
vehicle going from St. George to Hamilton must be conveyed.  Most of the locomotion in these
parts is done by boats, and the residents look to the sea, with its narrow creeks, as their
best highway from their farms to their best market.  In those days--and those days were not
very long since--the building of small ships was their chief trade, and they valued their land
mostly for the small scrubby cedar-trees with which this trade was carried on.

As one goes from St. George to Hamilton the road runs between two seas; that to the right is
the ocean; that on the left is an inland creek, which runs up through a large portion of the
islands, so that the land on the other side of it is near to the traveller.  For a considerable
portion of the way there are no houses lying near the road, and, there is one residence, some
way from the road, so secluded that no other house lies within a mile of it by land.  By water
it might probably be reached within half a mile.  This place was called Crump Island, and here
lived, and had lived for many years, an old gentleman, a native of Bermuda, whose business
it had been to buy up cedar wood and sell it to the ship-builders at Hamilton.  In our story
we shall not have very much to do with old Mr. Bergen, but it will be necessary to say a word
or two about his house.

It stood upon what would have been an island in the creek, had not a narrow causeway, barely
broad enough for a road, joined it to that larger island on which stands the town of St. George.
As the main road approaches the ferry it runs through some rough, hilly, open ground, which
on the right side towards the ocean has never been cultivated.  The distance from the ocean
here may, perhaps, be a quarter of a mile, and the ground is for the most part covered with
low furze.  On the left of the road the land is cultivated in patches, and here, some half
mile or more from the ferry, a path turns away to Crump Island.  The house cannot be seen from
the road, and, indeed, can hardly be seen at all, except from the sea.  It lies, perhaps, three
furlongs from the high road, and the path to it is but little used, as the passage to and from
it is chiefly made by water.

Here, at the time of our story, lived Mr. Bergen, and here lived Mr. Bergen's daughter.  Miss
Bergen was well known at St. George's as a steady, good girl, who spent her time in looking
after her father's household matters, in managing his two black maid-servants and the black
gardener, and who did her duty in that sphere of life to which she had been called.  She was
a comely, well-shaped young woman, with a sweet countenance, rather large in size, and very
quiet in demeanour.  In her earlier years, when young girls usually first bud forth into womanly
beauty, the neighbours had not thought much of Anastasia Bergen, nor had the young men of St.
George been wont to stay their boats under the window of Crump Cottage in order that they might
listen to her voice or feel the light of her eye; but slowly, as years went by, Anastasia Bergen
became a woman that a man might well love; and a man learned to love her who was well worthy
of a woman's heart.  This was Caleb Morton, the Presbyterian minister of St. George; and Caleb
Morton had been engaged to marry Miss Bergen for the last two years past, at the period of
Aaron Trow's escape from prison.

