DREAMERS OF
    THE GHETTO

    By I. ZANGWILL, Author of
    "Children of the Ghetto" "The
    Master" "The King of Schnorrers"

    HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
    NEW YORK AND LONDON
    1898

    BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

    THE MASTER. A Novel. Illustrated by T. DE THULSTRUP.
    Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 75.

    He who begins "The Master" will find a charm which will lure him
    through adventures which are lifelike and full of human
    interest.... A strong and an enduring book.--Chicago Tribune.

    To those who do not know his splendid imagery, keen dissection
    of character, subtle views of humor, and enthralling power of
    narration, this work of Mr. Zangwill's should prove momentous
    and important.--Boston Traveller.

    "The Master" is the best novel of the year.--Daily Chronicle,
    London.

    NEW YORK AND LONDON:
    HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS.

Copyright, 1898, by I. ZANGWILL.

Copyright, 1898, by HARPER & BROTHERS.

All rights reserved.

PREFACE

This is a Chronicle of Dreamers, who have arisen in the Ghetto from its establishment in the
sixteenth century to its slow breaking-up in our own day. Some have become historic in Jewry,
others have penetrated to the ken of the greater world and afforded models to illustrious artists
in letters, and but for the exigencies of my theme and the faint hope of throwing some new
light upon them, I should not have ventured to treat them afresh; the rest are personally known
to me or are, like "Joseph the Dreamer," the artistic typification of many souls through which
the great Ghetto dream has passed. Artistic truth is for me literally the highest truth: art
may seize the essence of persons and movements no less truly, and certainly far more vitally,
than a scientific generalization unifies a chaos of phenomena. Time and Space are only the
conditions through which spiritual facts straggle. Hence I have here and there permitted myself
liberties with these categories. Have I, for instance, misplaced the moment of Spinoza's obscure
love-episode--I have only followed his own principle, to see things sub specie æternitatis,
and even were his latest Dutch editor correct in denying the episode altogether, I should still
hold it true as summarizing the emotions with which even the philosopher must reckon. Of Heine
I have attempted a sort of composite conversation-photograph, blending, too, the real heroine
of the little episode with "La Mouche." His own words will be recognized by all students of
him--I can only hope the joins with mine are not too obvious. My other sources, too, lie sometimes
as plainly on the surface, but I have often delved at less accessible quarries. For instance,
I owe the celestial vision of "The Master of the Name" to a Hebrew original kindly shown me
by my friend Dr. S. Schechter, Reader in Talmudic at Cambridge, to whose luminous essay on
the Chassidim, in his Studies in Judaism, I have a further indebtedness. My account of "Maimon
the Fool" is based on his own (not always reliable) autobiography, of which I have extracted
the dramatic essence, though in the supplementary part of the story I have had to antedate
slightly the publication of Mendelssohn's "Jerusalem" and the fame of Kant. In fine, I have
never hesitated to take as an historian or to focus and interpret as an imaginative artist.

I have placed "A Child of the Ghetto" first, not only because the Venetian Jewry first bore
the name of Ghetto, but because this chapter may be regarded as a prelude to all the others.
Though the Dream pass through Smyrna or Amsterdam, through Rome or Cairo, through Jerusalem
or the Carpathians, through London or Berlin or New York, almost all the Dreamers had some
such childhood, and it may serve to explain them. It is the early environment from which they
all more or less emerged.

And there is a sense in which the stories all lead on to that which I have placed last. The
"Child of the Ghetto" may be considered "father to the man" of "Chad Gadya" in that same city
of the sea.

For this book is the story of a Dream that has not come true.

                                                        I.Z.

CONTENTS

                                                             PAGE

PRELUDE: MOSES AND JESUS                                     viii

A CHILD OF THE GHETTO                                           1

JOSEPH THE DREAMER                                             21

URIEL ACOSTA                                                   68

THE TURKISH MESSIAH                                           115

THE MAKER OF LENSES                                           186

THE MASTER OF THE NAME                                        221

MAIMON THE FOOL AND NATHAN THE WISE                           289

FROM A MATTRESS GRAVE                                         335

THE PEOPLE'S SAVIOUR                                          369

THE PRIMROSE SPHINX                                           424

DREAMERS IN CONGRESS                                          430

THE PALESTINE PILGRIM                                         441

THE CONCILIATOR OF CHRISTENDOM                                453

THE JOYOUS COMRADE                                            480

CHAD GADYA                                                    493

EPILOGUE: A MODERN SCRIBE IN JERUSALEM                        514

DREAMERS OF THE GHETTO

MOSES AND JESUS

    In dream I saw two Jews that met by chance,
    One old, stern-eyed, deep-browed, yet garlanded
    With living light of love around his head,
    The other young, with sweet seraphic glance.
    Around went on the Town's satanic dance,
    Hunger a-piping while at heart he bled.
    Shalom Aleichem mournfully each said,
    Nor eyed the other straight but looked askance.

    Sudden from Church out rolled an organ hymn,
    From Synagogue a loudly chaunted air,
    Each with its Prophet's high acclaim instinct.
    Then for the first time met their eyes, swift-linked
    In one strange, silent, piteous gaze, and dim
    With bitter tears of agonized despair.

A CHILD OF THE GHETTO

I

The first thing the child remembered was looking down from a window and seeing, ever so far
below, green water flowing, and on it gondolas plying, and fishing-boats with colored sails,
the men in them looking as small as children. For he was born in the Ghetto of Venice, on the
seventh story of an ancient house. There were two more stories, up which he never went, and
which remained strange regions, leading towards the blue sky. A dusky staircase, with gaunt
whitewashed walls, led down and down--past doors whose lintels all bore little tin cases containing
holy Hebrew words--into the narrow court of the oldest Ghetto in the world. A few yards to
the right was a portico leading to the bank of a canal, but a grim iron gate barred the way.
The water of another canal came right up to the back of the Ghetto, and cut off all egress
that way; and the other porticoes leading to the outer world were likewise provided with gates,
guarded by Venetian watchmen. These gates were closed at midnight and opened in the morning,
unless it was the Sabbath or a Christian holiday, when they remained shut all day, so that
no Jew could go in or out of the court, the street, the big and little square, and the one
or two tiny alleys that made up the Ghetto. There were no roads in the Ghetto, any more than
in the rest of Venice; nothing but pavements ever echoing the tramp of feet. At night the watchmen
rowed round and round its canals in large barcas, which the Jews had to pay for. But the child
did not feel a prisoner. As he had no wish to go outside the gates, he did not feel the chain
that would have drawn him back again, like a dog to a kennel; and although all the men and
women he knew wore yellow hats and large O's on their breasts when they went into the world
beyond, yet for a long time the child scarcely realized that there were people in the world
who were not Jews, still less that these hats and these rounds of yellow cloth were badges
of shame to mark off the Jews from the other people. He did not even know that all little boys
did not wear under their waistcoats "Four-corners," colored shoulder-straps with squares of
stuff at each end, and white fringes at each corner, and that they did not say, "Hear, O Israel,
the Lord is our God, the Lord is One," as they kissed the fringes. No, the Ghetto was all his
world, and a mighty universe it was, full of everything that the heart of a child could desire.
What an eager swarm of life in the great sunny square where the Venetian mast towered skywards,
and pigeons sometimes strutted among the crowd that hovered about the countless shops under
the encircling colonnade--pawnshops, old-clo' shops, butcher-shops, wherein black-bearded men
with yellow turbans bargained in Hebrew! What a fascination in the tall, many-windowed houses,
with their peeling plastered fronts and patches of bald red brick, their green and brown shutters,
their rusty balconies, their splashes of many-colored washing! In the morning and evening,
when the padlocked well was opened, what delight to watch the women drawing water, or even
to help tug at the chain that turned the axle. And on the bridge that led from the Old Ghetto
to the New, where the canal, though the view was brief, disappeared round two corners, how
absorbing to stand and speculate on what might be coming round either corner, and which would
yield a vision first! Perhaps there would come along a sandolo rowed by a man standing at the
back, his two oars crossed gracefully; perhaps a floating raft with barefooted boys bestriding
it; perhaps a barca punted by men in blue blouses, one at front and two at the back, with a
load of golden hay, or with provisions for the Ghetto--glowing fruit and picturesque vegetables,
or bleating sheep and bellowing bulls, coming to be killed by the Jewish method. The canal
that bounded the Ghetto at the back offered a much more extended view, but one hardly dared
to stand there, because the other shore was foreign, and the strange folk called Venetians
lived there, and some of these heathen roughs might throw stones across if they saw you. Still,
at night one could creep there and look along the moonlit water and up at the stars. Of the
world that lay on the other side of the water, he only knew that it was large and hostile and
cruel, though from his high window he loved to look out towards its great unknown spaces, mysterious
with the domes and spires of mighty buildings, or towards those strange mountains that rose
seawards, white and misty, like the hills of dream, and which he thought must be like Mount
Sinai, where God spake to Moses. He never thought that fairies might live in them, or gnomes
or pixies, for he had never heard of such creatures. There were good spirits and bad spirits
in the world, but they floated invisibly in the air, trying to make little boys good or sinful.
They were always fighting with one another for little boys' souls. But on the Sabbath your
bad angel had no power, and your guardian Sabbath angel hovered triumphantly around, assisting
your every-day good angel, as you might tell by noticing how you cast two shadows instead of
one when the two Sabbath candles were lighted. How beautiful were those Friday evenings, how
snowy the table-cloth, how sweet everything tasted, and how restful the atmosphere! Such delicious
peace for father and mother after the labors of the week!

It was the Sabbath Fire-woman who forced clearly upon the child's understanding--what was long
but a dim idea in the background of his mind--that the world was not all Jews. For while the
people who lived inside the gates had been chosen and consecrated to the service of the God
of Israel, who had brought them out of Egyptian bondage and made them slaves to Himself, outside
the gates were people who were not expected to obey the law of Moses; so that while he might
not touch the fire--nor even the candlesticks which had held fire--from Friday evening to Saturday
night, the Fire-woman could poke and poke at the logs to her heart's content. She poked her
way up from the ground-floor through all the seven stories, and went on higher, a sort of fire-spirit
poking her way skywards. She had other strange privileges, this little old woman with the shawl
over her head, as the child discovered gradually. For she could eat pig-flesh or shell-fish
or fowls or cattle killed anyhow; she could even eat butter directly after meat, instead of
having to wait six hours--nay, she could have butter and meat on the same plate, whereas the
child's mother had quite a different set of pots and dishes for meat things or butter things.
Yes, the Fire-woman was indeed an inferior creature, existing mainly to boil the Ghetto's tea-kettles
and snuff its candles, and was well rewarded by the copper coin which she gathered from every
hearth as soon as one might touch money. For when three stars appeared in the sky the Fire-woman
sank back into her primitive insignificance, and the child's father made the Habdalah, or ceremony
of division between week-day and Sabbath, thanking God who divideth holiday from working-day,
and light from darkness. Over a brimming wine-cup he made the blessing, holding his bent fingers
to a wax taper to make a symbolical appearance of shine and shadow, and passing round a box
of sweet-smelling spices. And, when the chanting was over, the child was given to sip of the
wine. Many delicious mouthfuls of wine were associated in his mind with religion. He had them
in the synagogue itself on Friday nights and on Festival nights, and at home as well, particularly
at Passover, on the first two evenings of which his little wine-glass was replenished no less
than four times with mild, sweet liquid. A large glass also stood ready for Elijah the Prophet,
which the invisible visitor drank, though the wine never got any lower. It was a delightful
period altogether, this feast of Passover, from the day before it, when the last crumbs of
bread and leavened matter were solemnly burnt (for no one might eat bread for eight days) till
the very last moment of the eighth day, when the long-forbidden bread tasted as sweet and strange
as cake. The mere change of kitchen vessels had a charm: new saucepans, new plates, new dishes,
new spoons, new everything, in harmony with the Passover cakes that took the place of bread--large
thick biscuits, baked without yeast, full of holes, or speckled and spotted. And when the evening
table was laid for the Seder service, looking oh! so quaint and picturesque, with wine-cups
and strange dishes, the roasted shank-bone of a lamb, bitter herbs, sweet spices, and what
not, and with everybody lolling around it on white pillows, the child's soul was full of a
tender poetry, and it was a joy to him to ask in Hebrew:--"Wherein doth this night differ from
all other nights? For on all other nights we may eat leavened and unleavened, but to-night
only unleavened?" He asked the question out of a large thin book, gay with pictures of the
Ten Plagues of Egypt and the wicked Pharaoh sitting with a hard heart on a hard throne. His
father's reply, which was also in Hebrew, lasted some two or three hours, being mixed up with
eating and drinking the nice things and the strange dishes; which was the only part of the
reply the child really understood, for the Hebrew itself was very difficult. But he knew generally
what the Feast was about, and his question was only a matter of form, for he grew up asking
it year after year, with a feigned surprise. Nor, though he learned to understand Hebrew well,
and could even translate his daily prayers into bad Italian, a corruption of the Venetian dialect
finding its way into the Ghetto through the mouths of the people who did business with the
outside world, did he ever really think of the sense of his prayers as he gabbled them off,
morning, noon, and night. There was so much to say--whole books full. It was a great temptation
to skip the driest pages, but he never yielded to it, conscientiously scampering even through
the passages in the tiniest type that had a diffident air of expecting attention from only
able-bodied adults. Part of the joy of Sabbaths and Festivals was the change of prayer-diet.
Even the Grace--that long prayer chanted after bodily diet--had refreshing little variations.
For, just as the child put on his best clothes for Festivals, so did his prayers seem to clothe
themselves in more beautiful words, and to be said out of more beautiful books, and with more
beautiful tunes to them. Melody played a large part in the synagogue services, so that, although
he did not think of the meaning of the prayers, they lived in his mind as music, and, sorrowful
or joyous, they often sang themselves in his brain in after years. There were three consecutive
"Amens" in the afternoon service of the three Festivals--Passover, Pentecost, Tabernacles--that
had a quaint charm for him. The first two were sounded staccato, the last rounded off the theme,
and died away, slow and lingering. Nor, though there were double prayers to say on these occasions,
did they weigh upon him as a burden, for the extra bits were insinuated between the familiar
bits, like hills or flowers suddenly sprung up in unexpected places to relieve the monotony
of a much-travelled road. And then these extra prayers were printed so prettily, they rhymed
so profusely. Many were clever acrostics, going right through the alphabet from Aleph, which
is A, to Tau, which is T, for Z comes near the beginning of the Hebrew alphabet. These acrostics,
written in the Middle Ages by pious rabbis, permeated the Festival prayer-books, and even when
the child had to confess his sins--or rather those of the whole community, for each member
of the brotherhood of Israel was responsible for the rest--he sinned his sin with an "A," he
sinned his sin with a "B," and so on till he could sin no longer. And, when the prayers rhymed,
how exhilarating it was to lay stress on each rhyme and double rhyme, shouting them fervidly.
And sometimes, instead of rhyming, they ended with the same phrase, like the refrain of a ballad,
or the chorus of a song, and then what a joyful relief, after a long breathless helter-skelter
through a strange stanza, to come out on the old familiar ground, and to shout exultantly,
"For His mercy endureth for ever," or "The appearance of the priest!" Sometimes the run was
briefer--through one line only--and ended on a single word like "water" or "fire." And what
pious fun it was to come down sharp upon fire or water! They stood out friendly and simple,
the rest was such curious and involved Hebrew that sometimes, in an audacious moment, the child
wondered whether even his father understood it all, despite that he wept freely and bitterly
over certain acrostics, especially on the Judgment Days. It was awe-inspiring to think that
the angels, who were listening up in heaven, understood every word of it. And he inclined to
think that the Cantor, or minister who led the praying, also understood; he sang with such
feeling and such fervid roulades. Many solos did the Cantor troll forth, to which the congregation
listened in silent rapture.