By this time the weather, from the sun being so far advanced in the northern tropic, was become
intolerably hot, which, joined to the heavy rains that soon after came on, made us very apprehensive
for the health of the fleet. Contrary, however, to expectation, the number of sick in the ship
I was embarked on was surprisingly small, and the rest of the fleet were nearly as healthy.
Frequent explosions of gunpowder, lighting fires between decks, and a liberal use of that admirable
antiseptic, oil of tar, were the preventives we made use of against impure air; and above all
things we were careful to keep the men's bedding and wearing apparel dry. As we advanced towards
the Line, the weather grew gradually better and more pleasant. On the 14th of July we passed
the Equator, at which time the atmosphere was as serene, and the temperature of the air not
hotter than in a bright summer day in England. From this period, until our arrival on the American
coast, the heats, the calms, and the rains by which we had been so much incommoded, were succeeded
by a series of weather as delightful as it was unlooked for. At three o'clock in the afternoon
of the 2nd of August, the 'Supply', which had been previously sent a-head on purpose, made
the signal for seeing the land, which was visible to the whole fleet before sunset, and proved
to be Cape Frio, in latitude 23 deg 5 min south, longitude 41 deg 40 1/4 min west.

Owing to light airs we did not get a-breast of the city of St. Sebastian, in the harbour of
Rio de Janeiro, until the 7th of the month, when we anchored about three quarters of a mile
from the shore.

CHAPTER V.

From the Arrival of the Fleet at Rio de Janeiro, till its Departure for the Cape of Good Hope;
with some Remarks on the Brazils.

Brazil is a country very imperfectly known in Europe. The Portugueze, from political motives,
have been sparing in their accounts of it. Whence our descriptions of it, in the geographical
publications in England, are drawn, I know not: that they are miserably erroneous and defective,
is certain.

The city of St. Sebastian stands on the west side of the harbour, in a low unhealthy situation,
surrounded on all sides by hills, which stop the free circulation of air, and subject its inhabitants
to intermittents and putrid diseases. It is of considerable extent: Mr. Cook makes it as large
as Liverpool; but Liverpool, in 1767, when Mr. Cook wrote, was not two-thirds of its present
size. Perhaps it equals Chester, or Exeter, in the share of ground it occupies, and is infinitely
more populous than either of them. The streets intersect each other at right angles, are tolerably
well built, and excellently paved, abounding with shops of every kind, in which the wants of
a stranger, if money is not one of them, can hardly remain unsatisfied. About the centre of
the city, and at a little distance from the beach, the Palace of the Viceroy stands, a long,
low building, no wise remarkable in its exterior appearance; though within are some spacious
and handsome apartments. The churches and convents are numerous, and richly decorated; hardly
a night passes without some of the latter being illuminated in honour of their patron saints,
which has a very brilliant effect when viewed from the water, and was at first mistaken by
us for public rejoicings. At the corner of almost every street stands a little image of the
Virgin, stuck round with lights in an evening, before which passengers frequently stop to pray
and sing very loudly. Indeed, the height to which religious zeal is carried in this place,
cannot fail of creating astonishment in a stranger. The greatest part of the inhabitants seem
to have no other occupation, than that of paying visits and going to church, at which times
you see them sally forth richly dressed, en chapeau bras, with the appendages of a bag for
the hair, and a small sword: even boys of six years old are seen parading about, furnished
with these indispensable requisites. Except when at their devotions, it is not easy to get
a sight of the women, and when obtained, the comparisons drawn by a traveller, lately arrived
from England, are little flattering to Portugueze beauty. In justice, however, to the ladies
of St. Sebastian, I must observe, that the custom of throwing nosegays at strangers, for the
purpose of bringing on an assignation, which Doctor Solander, and another gentleman of Mr.
Cook's ship, met with when here, was never seen by any of us in a single instance. We were
so deplorably unfortunate as to walk every evening before their windows and balconies, without
being honoured with a single bouquet, though nymphs and flowers were in equal and great abundance.

Among other public buildings, I had almost forgot to mention an observatory, which stands near
the middle of the town, and is tolerably well furnished with astronomical instruments. During
our stay here, some Spanish and Portuguese mathematicians were endeavouring to determine the
boundaries of the territories belonging to their respective crowns. Unhappily, however, for
the cause of science, these gentleman have not hitherto been able to coincide in their accounts,
so that very little information on this head, to be depended upon, could be gained. How far
political motives may have caused this disagreement, I do not presume to decide; though it
deserves notice, that the Portuguese accuse the Abbee de la Caille, who observed here by order
of the King of France, of having laid down the longitude of this place forty-five miles too
much to the eastward.

Until the year 1770, all the flour in the settlement was brought from Europe; but since that
time the inhabitants have made so rapid a progress in raising grain, as to be able to supply
themselves with it abundantly. The principal corn country lies around Rio Grande, in the latitude
of 32 deg south, where wheat flourishes so luxuriantly, as to yield from seventy to eighty
bushels for one. Coffee also, which they formerly received from Portugal, now grows in such
plenty as to enable them to export considerable quantities of it. But the staple commodity
of the country is sugar. That they have not, however, learnt the art of making palatable rum,
the English troops in New South Wales can bear testimony; a large quantity, very ill flavoured,
having been bought and shipped here for the use of the garrison of Port Jackson.

It was in 1771 that St. Salvador, which had for more than a century been the capital of Brazil,
ceased to be so; and that the seat of Government was removed to St. Sebastian. The change took
place on account of the colonial war, at that time carried on by the Courts of Lisbon and Madrid.
And, indeed, were the object of security alone to determine the seat of Government, I know
but few places better situated in that respect than the one I am describing; the natural strength
of the country, joined to the difficulties which would attend an attack on the fortifications,
being such as to render it very formidable.

It may be presumed that the Portuguese Government is well apprized of this circumstance and
of the little risque they run in being deprived of so important a possession, else it will
not be easy to penetrate the reasons which induce them to treat the troops who compose the
garrison with such cruel negligence. Their regiments were ordered out with a promise of being
relieved, and sent back to Europe at the end of three years, in conformity to which they settled
all their domestic arrangements. But the faith of Government has been broken, and at the expiration
of twenty years, all that is left to the remnant of these unfortunate men, is to suffer in
submissive silence. I was one evening walking with a Portuguese officer, when this subject
was started, and on my telling him, that such a breach of public honour to English troops would
become a subject of parliamentary enquiry, he seized my hand with great eagerness, "Ah, Sir!"
exclaimed he, "yours is a free country--we"!----His emotions spoke what his tongue refused.

As I am mentioning the army, I cannot help observing, that I saw nothing here to confirm the
remark of Mr. Cook, that the inhabitants of the place, whenever they meet an officer of the
garrison, bow to him with the greatest obsequiousness; and by omitting such a ceremony, would
subject themselves to be knocked down, though the other seldom deigns to return the compliment.
The interchange of civilities is general between them, and seems by no means extorted. The
people who could submit to such insolent superiority, would, indeed, deserve to be treated
as slaves.

The police of the city is very good. Soldiers patrole the streets frequently, and riots are
seldom heard of. The dreadful custom of stabbing, from motives of private resentment, is nearly
at an end, since the church has ceased to afford an asylum to murderers. In other respects,
the progress of improvement appears slow, and fettered by obstacles almost insurmountable,
whose baneful influence will continue, until a more enlightened system of policy shall be adopted.
From morning to night the ears of a stranger are greeted by the tinkling of the convent bells,
and his eyes saluted by processions of devotees, whose adoration and levity seem to keep equal
pace, and succeed each other in turns. "Do you want to make your son sick of soldiering? Shew
him the Trainbands of London on a field-day." Let him who would wish to give his son a distaste
to Popery, point out to him the sloth, the ignorance, and the bigotry of this place.

Being nearly ready to depart by the 1st of September, as many officers as possible went on
that day to the palace to take leave of his Excellency, the Viceroy of the Brazils, to whom
we had been previously introduced; who on this, and every other occasion, was pleased to honour
us with the most distinguished marks of regard and attention. Some part, indeed, of the numerous
indulgencies we experienced during our stay here, must doubtless be attributed to the high
respect in which the Portuguese held Governor Phillip, who was for many years a captain in
their navy, and commanded a ship of war on this station: in consequence of which, many privileges
were extended to us, very unusual to be granted to strangers. We were allowed the liberty of
making short excursions into the country, and on these occasions, as well as when walking in
the city, the mortifying custom of having an officer of the garrison attending us was dispensed
with on our leaving our names and ranks, at the time of landing, with the adjutant of orders
at the palace. It happened, however, sometimes, that the presence of a military man was necessary
to prevent imposition in the shopkeepers, who frequently made a practice of asking more for
their goods than the worth of them. In which case an officer, when applied to, always told
us the usual price of the commodity with the greatest readiness, and adjusted the terms of
the purchase.

On the morning of the fourth of September we left Rio de Janeiro, amply furnished with the
good things which its happy soil and clime so abundantly produce. The future voyager may with
security depend on this place for laying in many parts of his stock. Among these may be enumerated
sugar, coffee, rum, port wine, rice, tapioca, and tobacco, besides very beautiful wood for
the purposes of household furniture. Poultry is not remarkably cheap, but may be procured in
any quantity; as may hops at a low rate. The markets are well supplied with butcher's meat,
and vegetables of every sort are to be procured at a price next to nothing; the yams are particularly
excellent. Oranges abound so much, as to be sold for sixpence a hundred; and limes are to be
had on terms equally moderate. Bananas, cocoa nuts, and guavas, are common; but the few pineapples
brought to market are not remarkable either for flavour, or cheapness. Besides the inducements
to lay out money already mentioned, the naturalist may add to his collection by an almost endless
variety of beautiful birds and curious insects, which are to be bought at a reasonable price,
well preserved, and neatly assorted.

I shall close my account of this place by informing strangers, who may come here, that the
Portuguese reckon their money in rees, an imaginary coin, twenty of which make a small copper
piece called a 'vintin', and sixteen of these last a 'petack'. Every piece is marked with the
number of rees it is worth, so that a mistake can hardly happen. English silver coin has lost
its reputation here, and dollars will be found preferable to any other money.

CHAPTER VI.

The Passage from the Brazils to the Cape of Good Hope; with an Account of the Transactions
of the Fleet there.

Our passage from Rio de Janeiro to the Cape of Good Hope was equally prosperous with that which
had preceded it. We steered away to the south-east, and lost sight of the American coast the
day after our departure. From this time until the 13th of October, when we made the Cape, nothing
remarkable occurred, except the loss of a convict in the ship I was on board, who unfortunately
fell into the sea, and perished in spite of our efforts to save him, by cutting adrift a life
buoy and hoisting out a boat. During the passage, a slight dysentery prevailed in some of the
ships, but was in no instance mortal. We were at first inclined to impute it to the water we
took on board at the Brazils, but as the effect was very partial, some other cause was more
probably the occasion of it.

At seven o'clock in the evening of the 13th of October, we cast anchor in Table Bay, and found
many ships of different nations in the harbour.

Little can be added to the many accounts already published of the Cape of Good Hope, though,
if an opinion on the subject might be risqued, the descriptions they contain are too flattering.
When contrasted with Rio de Janeiro, it certainly suffers in the comparison. Indeed we arrived
at a time equally unfavourable for judging of the produce of the soil and the temper of its
cultivators, who had suffered considerably from a dearth that had happened the preceding season,
and created a general scarcity. Nor was the chagrin of these deprivations lessened by the news
daily arriving of the convulsions that shook the republic, which could not fail to make an
impression even on Batavian phlegm.

As a considerable quantity of flour, and the principal part of the live stock, which was to
store our intended settlement, were meant to be procured here, Governor Phillip lost no time
in waiting on Mynheer Van Graaffe, the Dutch Governor, to request permission (according to
the custom of the place) to purchase all that we stood in need of. How far the demand extended,
I know not, nor Mynheer Van Graaffe's reasons for complying with it in part only. To this gentleman's
political sentiments I confess myself a stranger; though I should do his politeness and liberality
at his own table an injustice, were I not to take this public opportunity of acknowledging
them; nor can I resist the opportunity which presents itself, to inform my readers, in honor
of M. Van Graaffe's humanity, that he has made repeated efforts to recover the unfortunate
remains of the crew of the Grosvenor Indiaman, which was wrecked about five years ago on the
coast of Caffraria. This information was given me by Colonel Gordon, commandant of the Dutch
troops at the Cape, whose knowledge of the interior parts of this country surpasses that of
any other man. And I am sorry to say that the Colonel added, these unhappy people were irrecoverably
lost to the world and their friends, by being detained among the Caffres, the most savage set
of brutes on earth.

His Excellency resides at the Government house, in the East India Company's garden. This last
is of considerable extent, and is planted chiefly with vegetables for the Dutch Indiamen which
may happen to touch at the port. Some of the walks are extremely pleasant from the shade they
afford, and the whole garden is very neatly kept. The regular lines intersecting each other
at right angles, in which it is laid out, will, nevertheless, afford but little gratification
to an Englishman, who has been used to contemplate the natural style which distinguishes the
pleasure grounds of his own country. At the head of the centre walks stands a menagerie, on
which, as well as the garden, many pompous eulogiums have been passed, though in my own judgment,
considering the local advantages possessed by the Company, it is poorly furnished both with
animals and birds; a tyger, a zebra, some fine ostriches, a cassowary, and the lovely crown-fowl,
are among the most remarkable.

The table land, which stands at the back of the town, is a black dreary looking mountain, apparently
flat at top, and of more than eleven hundred yards in height. The gusts of wind which blow
from it are violent to an excess, and have a very unpleasant effect, by raising the dust in
such clouds, as to render stirring out of doors next to impossible. Nor can any precaution
prevent the inhabitants from being annoyed by it, as much within doors as without.

At length the wished-for day, on which the next effort for reaching the place of our destination
was to be made, appeared. The morning was calm, but the land wind getting up about noon, on
the 12th of November we weighed anchor, and soon left far behind every scene of civilization
and humanized manners, to explore a remote and barbarous land; and plant in it those happy
arts, which alone constitute the pre-eminence and dignity of other countries.

The live animals we took on board on the public account from the Cape, for stocking our projected
colony, were, two bulls, three cows, three horses, forty-four sheep, and thirty-two hogs, besides
goats, and a very large quantity of poultry of every kind. A considerable addition to this
was made by the private stocks of the officers, who were, however, under a necessity of circumscribing
their original intentions on this head very much, from the excessive dearness of many of the
articles. It will readily be believed, that few of the military found it convenient to purchase
sheep, when hay to feed them costs sixteen shillings a hundred weight.

The boarding-houses on shore, to which strangers have recourse, are more reasonable than might
be expected. For a dollar and a half per day we were well lodged, and partook of a table tolerably
supplied in the French style. Should a traveller's stock of tea run short, it is a thousand
chances to one that he will be able to replenish it here at a cheaper rate than in England.
He may procure plenty of arrack and white wine; also raisins, and dried fruits of other sorts.
If he dislikes to live at a boarding-house, he will find the markets well stored, and the price
of butcher's meat and vegetables far from excessive.

Just before the signal for weighing was made, a ship, under American colours, entered the road,
bound from Boston, from whence she had sailed one hundred and forty days, on a trading voyage
to the East Indies. In her route, she had been lucky enough to pick up several of the inferior
officers and crew of the Harcourt East-Indiaman, which ship had been wrecked on one of the
Cape de Verd Islands. The master, who appeared to be a man of some information, on being told
the destination of our fleet, gave it as his opinion, that if a reception could be secured,
emigrations would take place to New South Wales, not only from the old continent, but the new
one, where the spirit of adventure and thirst for novelty were excessive.

CHAPTER VII.

The Passage from the Cape of Good Hope to Botany Bay.

We had hardly cleared the land when a south-east wind set in, and, except at short intervals,
continued to blow until the 19th of the month; when we were in the latitude of 37 deg 40 min
south, and by the time-keeper, in longitude 11 deg 30 min east, so that our distance from Botany
Bay had increased nearly an hundred leagues since leaving the Cape. As no appearance of a change
in our favour seemed likely to take place, Governor Phillip at this time signified his intention
of shifting his pennant from the Sirius to the 'Supply', and proceeding on his voyage without
waiting for the rest of the fleet, which was formed in two divisions. The first consisting
of three transports, known to be the best sailors, was put under the command of a Lieutenant
of the navy; and the remaining three, with the victuallers, left in charge of Captain Hunter,
of his Majesty's ship Sirius. In the last division was the vessel, in which the author of this
narrative served. Various causes prevented the separation from taking place until the 25th,
when several sawyers, carpenters, blacksmiths, and other mechanics, were shifted from different
ships into the 'Supply', in order to facilitate his Excellency's intention of forwarding the
necessary buildings to be erected at Botany Bay, by the time the rest of the fleet might be
expected to arrive. Lieutenant Governor Ross, and the Staff of the marine battalion, also removed
from the Sirius into the Scarborough transport, one of the ships of the first division, in
order to afford every assistance which the public service might receive, by their being early
on the spot on which our future operations were to be conducted.

From this time a succession of fair winds and pleasant weather corresponded to our eager desires,
and on the 7th of January, 1788, the long wished for shore of Van Diemen gratified our sight.
We made the land at two o'clock in the afternoon, the very hour we expected to see it from
the lunar observations of Captain Hunter, whose accuracy, as an astronomer, and conduct as
an officer, had inspired us with equal gratitude and admiration.

After so long a confinement, on a service so peculiarly disgusting and troublesome, it cannot
be matter of surprise that we were overjoyed at the near prospect of a change of scene. By
sunset we had passed between the rocks, which Captain Furneaux named the Mewstone and Swilly.
The former bears a very close resemblance to the little island near Plymouth, whence it took
its name: its latitude is 43 deg 48 min south, longitude 146 deg 25 min east of Greenwich.

In running along shore, we cast many an anxious eye towards the land, on which so much of our
future destiny depended. Our distance, joined to the haziness of the atmosphere, prevented
us, however, from being able to discover much. With our best glasses we could see nothing but
hills of a moderate height, cloathed with trees, to which some little patches of white sandstone
gave the appearance of being covered with snow. Many fires were observed on the hills in the
evening.

As no person in the ship I was on board had been on this coast before, we consulted a little
chart, published by Steele, of the Minories, London, and found it, in general, very correct;
it would be more so, were not the Mewstone laid down at too great a distance from the land,
and one object made of the Eddystone and Swilly, when, in fact, they are distinct. Between
the two last is an entire bed of impassable rocks, many of them above water. The latitude of
the Eddystone is 43 deg 53 1/2 min, longitude 147 deg 9 min; that of Swilly 43 deg 54 min south,
longitude 147 deg 3 min east of Greenwich.

In the night the westerly wind, which had so long befriended us, died away, and was succeeded
by one from the north-east. When day appeared we had lost sight of the land, and did not regain
it until the 19th, at only the distance of 17 leagues from our desired port. The wind was now
fair, the sky serene, though a little hazy, and the temperature of the air delightfully pleasant:
joy sparkled in every countenance, and congratulations issued from every mouth. Ithaca itself
was scarcely more longed for by Ulysses, than Botany Bay by the adventurers who had traversed
so many thousand miles to take possession of it.

"Heavily in clouds came on the day" which ushered in our arrival. To us it was "a great, an
important day," though I hope the foundation, not the fall, of an empire will be dated from it.

On the morning of the 20th, by ten o'clock, the whole of the fleet had cast anchor in Botany
Bay, where, to our mutual satisfaction, we found the Governor, and the first division of transports.
On inquiry, we heard, that the 'Supply' had arrived on the 18th, and the transports only the
preceding day.

Thus, after a passage of exactly thirty-six weeks from Portsmouth, we happily effected our
arduous undertaking, with such a train of unexampled blessings as hardly ever attended a fleet
in a like predicament. Of two hundred and twelve marines we lost only one; and of seven hundred
and seventy-five convicts, put on board in England, but twenty-four perished in our route.
To what cause are we to attribute this unhoped for success? I wish I could answer to the liberal
manner in which Government supplied the expedition. But when the reader is told, that some
of the necessary articles allowed to ships on a common passage to West Indies, were withheld
from us; that portable soup, wheat, and pickled vegetables were not allowed; and that an inadequate
quantity of essence of malt was the only antiscorbutic supplied, his surprise will redouble
at the result of the voyage. For it must be remembered, that the people thus sent out were
not a ship's company starting with every advantage of health and good living, which a state
of freedom produces; but the major part a miserable set of convicts, emaciated from confinement,
and in want of cloaths, and almost every convenience to render so long a passage tolerable.
I beg leave, however, to say, that the provisions served on board were good, and of a much
superior quality to those usually supplied by contract: they were furnished by Mr. Richards,
junior, of Walworth, Surrey.

CHAPTER VIII.

From the Fleet's Arrival at Botany Bay to the Evacuation of it; and taking Possession of Port
Jackson. Interviews with the Natives; and an Account of the Country about Botany Bay.

We had scarcely bid each other welcome on our arrival, when an expedition up the Bay was undertaken
by the Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, in order to explore the nature of the country, and
fix on a spot to begin our operations upon. None, however, which could be deemed very eligible,
being discovered, his Excellency proceeded in a boat to examine the opening, to which Mr. Cook
had given the name of Port Jackson, on an idea that a shelter for shipping within it might
be found. The boat returned on the evening of the 23rd, with such an account of the harbour
and advantages attending the place, that it was determined the evacuation of Botany Bay should
commence the next morning.

In consequence of this decision, the few seamen and marines who had been landed from the squadron,
were instantly reimbarked, and every preparation made to bid adieu to a port which had so long
been the subject of our conversation; which but three days before we had entered with so many
sentiments of satisfaction; and in which, as we had believed, so many of our future hours were
to be passed. The thoughts of removal banished sleep, so that I rose at the first dawn of the
morning.

Had the sea breeze set in, the strange ships would have been at anchor in the Bay by eight
o'clock in the morning, but the wind blowing out, they were driven by a strong lee current
to the southward of the port. On the following day they re-appeared in their former situation,
and a boat was sent to them, with a lieutenant of the navy in her, to offer assistance, and
point out the necessary marks for entering the harbour. In the course of the day the officer
returned, and brought intelligence that the ships were the Boussole and Astrolabe, sent out
by order of the King of France, and under the command of Monsieur De Perrouse. The astonishment
of the French at seeing us, had not equalled that we had experienced, for it appeared, that
in the course of their voyage they had touched at Kamschatka, and by that means learnt that
our expedition was in contemplation. They dropped anchor the next morning, just as we had got
under weigh to work out of the Bay, so that for the present nothing more than salutations could
pass between us.

Before I quit Botany Bay, I shall relate the observations we were enabled to make during our
short stay there; as well as those which our subsequent visits to it from Port Jackson enabled
us to complete.

The Bay is very open, and greatly exposed to the fury of the S.E. winds, which, when they blow,
cause a heavy and dangerous swell. It is of prodigious extent, the principal arm, which takes
a S.W. direction, being not less, including its windings, than twenty four miles from the capes
which form the entrance, according to the report of the French officers, who took uncommon
pains to survey it. At the distance of a league from the harbour's mouth is a bar, on which
at low water, not more than fifteen feet are to be found. Within this bar, for many miles up
the S.W. arm, is a haven, equal in every respect to any hitherto known, and in which any number
of ships might anchor, secured from all winds. The country around far exceeds in richness of
soil that about Cape Banks and Point Solander, though unfortunately they resemble each other
in one respect, a scarcity of fresh water.

We found the natives tolerably numerous as we advanced up the river, and even at the harbour's
mouth we had reason to conclude the country more populous than Mr. Cook thought it. For on
the Supply's arrival in the Bay on the 18th of the month, they were assembled on the beach
of the south shore, to the number of not less than forty persons, shouting and making many
uncouth signs and gestures. This appearance whetted curiosity to its utmost, but as prudence
forbade a few people to venture wantonly among so great a number, and a party of only six men
was observed on the north shore, the Governor immediately proceeded to land on that side, in
order to take possession of his new territory, and bring about an intercourse between its old
and new masters. The boat in which his Excellency was, rowed up the harbour, close to the land,
for some distance; the Indians keeping pace with her on the beach. At last an officer in the
boat made signs of a want of water, which it was judged would indicate his wish of landing.
The natives directly comprehended what he wanted, and pointed to a spot where water could be
procured; on which the boat was immediately pushed in, and a landing took place. As on the
event of this meeting might depend so much of our future tranquillity, every delicacy on our
side was requisite. The Indians, though timorous, shewed no signs of resentment at the Governor's
going on shore; an interview commenced, in which the conduct of both parties pleased each other
so much, that the strangers returned to their ships with a much better opinion of the natives
than they had landed with; and the latter seemed highly entertained with their new acquaintance,
from whom they condescended to accept of a looking glass, some beads, and other toys.

Owing to the lateness of our arrival, it was not my good fortune to go on shore until three
days after this had happened, when I went with a party to the south side of the harbour, and
had scarcely landed five minutes, when we were met by a dozen Indians, naked as at the moment
of their birth, walking along the beach. Eager to come to a conference, and yet afraid of giving
offence, we advanced with caution towards them, nor would they, at first approach nearer to
us than the distance of some paces. Both parties were armed; yet an attack seemed as unlikely
on their part, as we knew it to be on our own.

I had at this time a little boy, of not more than seven years of age, in my hand. The child
seemed to attract their attention very much, for they frequently pointed to him and spoke to
each other; and as he was not frightened, I advanced with him towards them, at the same time
baring his bosom and, shewing the whiteness of the skin. On the cloaths being removed, they
gave a loud exclamation, and one of the party, an old man, with a long beard, hideously ugly,
came close to us. I bade my little charge not to be afraid, and introduced him to the acquaintance
of this uncouth personage. The Indian, with great gentleness, laid his hand on the child's
hat, and afterwards felt his cloaths, muttering to himself all the while. I found it necessary,
however, by this time to send away the child, as such a close connection rather alarmed him;
and in this, as the conclusion verified, I gave no offence to the old gentleman. Indeed it
was but putting ourselves on a par with them, as I had observed from the first, that some youths
of their own, though considerably older than the one with us, were, kept back by the grown people.

Several more now came up, to whom, we made various presents, but our toys seemed not to be
regarded as very valuable; nor would they for a long time make any returns to them, though
before we parted, a large club, with a head almost sufficient to fell an ox, was obtained in
exchange for a looking-glass. These people seemed at a loss to know (probably from our want
of beards) of what sex we were, which having understood, they burst into the most immoderate
fits of laughter, talking to each other at the same time with such rapidity and vociferation
as I had never before heard. After nearly an hour's conversation by signs and gestures, they
repeated several times the word whurra, which signifies, begone, and walked away from us to
the head of the Bay.

The natives being departed, we set out to observe the country, which, on inspection, rather
disappointed our hopes, being invariably sandy and unpromising for the purposes of cultivation,
though the trees and grass flourish in great luxuriancy. Close to us was the spring at which
Mr. Cook watered, but we did not think the water very excellent, nor did it run freely. In
the evening we returned on board, not greatly pleased with the latter part of our discoveries,
as it indicated an increase of those difficulties, which before seemed sufficiently numerous.

Between this and our departure we had several more interviews with the natives, which ended
in so friendly a manner, that we began to entertain strong hopes of bringing about a connection
with them. Our first object was to win their affections, and our next to convince them of the
superiority we possessed: for without the latter, the former we knew would be of little importance.

An officer one day prevailed on one of them to place a target, made of bark, against a tree,
which he fired at with a pistol, at the distance of some paces. The Indians, though terrified
at the report, did not run away, but their astonishment exceeded their alarm, on looking at
the shield which the ball had perforated. As this produced a little shyness, the officer, to
dissipate their fears and remove their jealousy, whistled the air of Malbrooke, which they
appeared highly charmed with, and imitated him with equal pleasure and readiness. I cannot
help remarking here, what I was afterwards told by Monsieur De Perrouse, that the natives of
California, and throughout all the islands of the Pacific Ocean, and in short wherever he had
been, seemed equally touched and delighted with this little plaintive air.

CHAPTER IX.

The taking Possession of Port Jackson, with the Disembarkation of the Marines and Convicts.

Our passage to Port Jackson took up but few hours, and those were spent far from unpleasantly.
The evening was bright, and the prospect before us such as might justify sanguine expectation.
Having passed between the capes which form its entrance, we found ourselves in a port superior,
in extent and excellency, to all we had seen before. We continued to run up the harbour about
four miles, in a westerly direction, enjoying the luxuriant prospect of its shores, covered
with trees to the water's edge, among which many of the Indians were frequently seen, till
we arrived at a small snug cove on the southern side, on whose banks the plan of our operations
was destined to commence.

The landing of a part of the marines and convicts took place the next day, and on the following,
the remainder was disembarked. Business now sat on every brow, and the scene, to an indifferent
spectator, at leisure to contemplate it, would have been highly picturesque and amusing. In
one place, a party cutting down the woods; a second, setting up a blacksmith's forge; a third,
dragging along a load of stones or provisions; here an officer pitching his marquee, with a
detachment of troops parading on one side of him, and a cook's fire blazing up on the other.
Through the unwearied diligence of those at the head of the different departments, regularity
was, however, soon introduced, and, as far as the unsettled state of matters would allow, confusion
gave place to system.

Into the head of the cove, on which our establishment is fixed, runs a small stream of fresh
water, which serves to divide the adjacent country to a little distance, in the direction of
north and south. On the eastern side of this rivulet the Governor fixed his place of residence,
with a large body of convicts encamped near him; and on the western side was disposed the remaining
part of these people, near the marine encampment. From this last two guards, consisting of
two subalterns, as many serjeants, four corporals, two drummers, and forty-two private men,
under the orders of a Captain of the day, to whom all reports were made, daily mounted for
the public security, with such directions to use force, in case of necessity, as left no room
for those who were the object of the order, but to remain peaceable, or perish by the bayonet.

As the straggling of the convicts was not only a desertion from the public labour, but might
be attended with ill consequences to the settlement, in case of their meeting the natives,
every care was taken to prevent it. The Provost Martial with his men was ordered to patrole
the country around, and the convicts informed, that the severest punishment would be inflicted
on transgressors. In spite, however, of all our precautions, they soon found the road to Botany
Bay, in visits to the French, who would gladly have dispensed with their company.

