THE SHORT COURSE SERIES

THE PRAYERS OF ST. PAUL

GENERAL PREFACE

The title of the present series is a sufficient indication of its purpose. Few preachers, or
congregations, will face the long courses of expository lectures which characterised the preaching
of the past, but there is a growing conviction on the part of some that an occasional short
course, of six or eight connected studies on one definite theme, is a necessity of their mental
and ministerial life. It is at this point the projected series would strike in. It would suggest
to those who are mapping out a scheme of work for the future a variety of subjects which might
possibly be utilised in this way.

The appeal, however, will not be restricted to ministers or preachers. The various volumes
will meet the needs of laymen and Sabbath-school teachers who are interested in a scholarly
but also practical exposition of Bible history and doctrine. In the hands of office-bearers
and mission-workers the "Short Course Series" may easily become one of the most convenient
and valuable of Bible helps.

It need scarcely be added that while an effort has been made to secure, as far as possible,
a general uniformity in the scope and character of the series, the final responsibility for
the special interpretations and opinions introduced into the separate volumes, rests entirely
with the individual contributors.

A detailed list of the authors and their subjects will be found at the close of each volume.

  Volumes Already Published

  A Cry for Justice: A Study in Amos.
    By Prof. JOHN E. MCFADYEN, D.D.

  The Beatitudes.
    By Rev. ROBERT H. FISHER, D.D.

  The Lenten Psalms.
    By the EDITOR.

  The Psalm of Psalms.
    By Prof. JAMES STALKER, D.D.

  The Song and the Soil.
    By Prof. W. G. JORDAN, D.D.

  The Higher Powers of the Soul.
    By Rev. GEORGE M'HARDY, D.D.

  Jehovah-Jesus.
    By Rev. THOMAS WHITELAW, D.D.

  The Sevenfold I Am
    By Rev. THOMAS MARJORIBANKS, B.D.

  The Man Among the Myrtles.
    By the EDITOR.

  The Story of Joseph.
    By Rev. ADAM C. WELCH, B.D., Th.D.

  The Divine Drama of Job.
    By Rev. CHARLES F. AKED, D.D.

  A Mirror of the Soul: Studies in the Psalter.
    By Rev. CANON VAUGHAN, M.A.

  In the Upper Room.
    By Rev. D. J. BURRILL, D.D., LL.D.

  The Son of Man.
    By ANDREW C. ZENOS, D.D., LL.D.

  The Joy of Finding.
    By Rev. ALFRED E. GARVIE.

  The Prayers of St. Paul.
    By Rev. W. H. GRIFFITH THOMAS, D.D.

  PRICE 60 CENTS NET PER VOLUME

  The Short Course Series

  EDITED BY
  REV. JOHN ADAMS, B.D.

  THE
  PRAYERS OF ST. PAUL

  BY THE

  REV. W. H. GRIFFITH THOMAS, D.D.
  PROFESSOR OF OLD TESTAMENT LITERATURE AND EXEGESIS
  WYCLIFFE COLLEGE, TORONTO

  NEW YORK
  CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
  1914

  TO
  W. G. J.

CONTENTS

                                                                  PAGE

     I. GRACE AND HOLINESS                                         1
        1 Thessalonians iii. 11-13

    II. CONSECRATION AND PRESERVATION                             15
        1 Thessalonians v. 23, 24

   III. APPROBATION AND BLESSING                                  27
        2 Thessalonians i. 11, 12

    IV. LOVE AND PEACE                                            39
        2 Thessalonians iii. 5, R.V.; 2 Thessalonians iii. 16

     V. KNOWLEDGE AND OBEDIENCE                                   55
        Colossians i. 9-12

    VI. CONFLICT AND COMFORT                                      73
        Colossians ii. 1, 2

   VII. WISDOM AND REVELATION                                     89
        Ephesians i. 15-19

  VIII. STRENGTH AND INDWELLING                                  109
        Ephesians iii. 14-19

    IX. LOVE AND DISCERNMENT                                     125
        Philippians i. 9-11

  APPENDIX                                                       139

  INDEX                                                          143

One of the most valuable elements in the Epistles of St. Paul is their revelation of the writer's
spiritual life. While they are necessarily doctrinal and theological, dealing with the fundamental
realities of the Christian religion, they are also intensely personal, and express very much
of the Apostle's own experience. They depict in a marked degree the sources and characteristics
of the spiritual life. This is especially seen when the various prayers, thanksgivings, doxologies,
and personal testimonies are considered.

I.

GRACE AND HOLINESS.

I.

GRACE AND HOLINESS. 11-13.

There are few more precious subjects for meditation and imitation than the prayers and intercessions
of the great Apostle. He was a man of action because he was first and foremost a man of prayer.
To him both aspects of the well-known motto were true: "To pray is to labour," and "To labour
is to pray."

There is no argument for or justification of prayer; nor even an explanation. It is assumed
to be the natural and inevitable expression of spiritual life. Most of the Apostle's prayers
of which we have a record are concerned with other people rather than with himself, and they
thus reveal to us indirectly but very really what St. Paul felt to be the predominant needs
of the spiritual life.

In this series of studies we propose to look at some of these prayers, and to consider their
direct bearing upon our own lives. Taking the Epistles in what is generally regarded to be
their chronological order, we naturally commence with the prayer found in 1 Thess. iii. 11-13.
In this passage we have what is not often found, a prayer for himself associated with prayer
for others.

1. HIS PRAYER FOR HIMSELF (ver. 11).

Let us notice Who it is to Whom he prays--"God Himself and our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ."
The association of Christ with God as One to Whom prayer is addressed is of course very familiar
to us, but it ought never to be forgotten that when the Apostle penned these words the association
was both striking and significant. For consider: these words were written within twenty-five
years of our Lord's earthly life and ascension, and yet here is this quiet but clear association
of Him with the Father, thus testifying in a very remarkable and convincing way to His Godhead
as the Hearer of prayer. And this fact is still more noticeable in the original, for St. Paul
in this verse breaks one of the familiar rules of grammar, whether of Greek or English. It
is well known that whenever there are two nouns to a verb the verb must be in the plural; and
yet here the Greek word "direct" is in the singular, notwithstanding the fact that there are
two subjects, the Father and Christ. The same feature is to be found in 2 Thess. ii. 17. It
is evident from this what St. Paul thought of our Lord Jesus Christ, and it is in such simple,
indirect testimonies that we find the strongest and most convincing proofs that the early Church
believed in the Deity of our Lord.

Let us consider what it is for which he prays--"Direct our way." He asks for guidance. There
had been certain difficulties in the way of his return to Thessalonica. He had been hindered,
and now asks that God would open the way for him to go back to his beloved friends. Nothing
was outside the Apostle's relationship to God, and nothing was too small about which to pray
to God. As it has been well said: "Nothing is so small that we do not honour God by asking
His guidance of it, or insult Him by taking it out of His hands." The need of guidance is a
very real one in every Christian life, and the certainty of guidance is just as real. "The
steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord" (Ps. xxxvii. 23); and this is as true now as ever.
"I will guide thee with Mine eye" (Ps. xxxii. 8) is a promise for all time, and we may confidently
seek guidance in prayer whenever it is needed. The answer to our prayer will come in a threefold
way. God guides us by His Spirit, reigning supreme within our hearts. He also guides us by
the counsels and principles of His Word. These two agree in one, for the Holy Spirit never
guides contrary to the Word. And then, in the third place, He guides us by His Providence,
so that when the Word, the Spirit, and Providence in daily circumstances agree we may be sure
that the guidance has been given.

2. HIS PRAYER FOR OTHERS (vers. 12, 13). He asks for love on their behalf, that God would grant
them this greatest of all gifts--"the very bond of peace and of all virtues, without which
whosoever liveth is counted dead before Him." Love in the New Testament is no mere sentiment,
for it involves self-sacrifice. It is not limited to emotion; it expresses itself in energy.
It does not evaporate in feeling; it expresses itself in fact. "Love is of God," for "God is
love"; and the Apostle in praying this prayer asks for the supreme gift of their lives.

The measure of the gift is noticeable--"Increase and abound in love." The "increase" has to
do with their inner life, their hearts being more and more enlarged in capacity to possess
this love; the "abounding" has to do with their outward life, and points to the overflow of
that love towards others.

Consider, too, the objects of this love--"Toward one another, and toward all men." There was,
first of all, the special love to be shown toward Christians, according to the "new commandment"
(John xiii. 34). In the New Testament the emphasis is laid again and again upon brother-love,
or love of the brethren, and the brotherhood. This was something entirely new in the world's
history--a new tie or bond, the union of hearts in Christ Jesus. To see how these Christians
loved one another was a proof of this new affection based upon the new commandment. But, further,
their love was to extend beyond their fellow-Christians--even to "all men," just as we have
in St. Peter's Epistle, in that long chain of graces, first, love of the brethren, and then,
love towards all (2 Pet. i. 7).

And yet it may perhaps be asked, How is it possible for us to love everybody? What about those
who are not lovely and lovable--how can we love these? It may help us to remember that there
is a clear distinction between loving and liking. While it is impossible to like everybody,
it is assuredly possible to love everybody. A mother loves her wayward son, but she cannot
like him, for there is practically nothing "alike" between them. In the same way we may love
with the love of compassion if we cannot love with the love of complacency, and thus fulfil
our Lord's command and realise the answer to the Apostle's prayers. This, we may be perfectly
certain, is the supreme thing, and our Christianity will count for nothing in the eyes of men
if it is not permeated and energised through and through with active, whole-hearted, Christ-like
love.

Consider the ultimate purpose he expresses--"To the end He may stablish your hearts unblameable
in holiness." The love for which he prays is to be expressed in holiness. The meaning of holiness
throughout the Old and New Testaments is "separateness." The idea is that of a life separated
unto God, dedicated, consecrated to His service. Wherever the words "holiness," "sanctification,"
and their associated and cognate expressions are found, the root idea is always that of separation
rather than of purification. It involves the whole-hearted and entire dedication of the life
to God. The cognate word "saint" does not strictly mean "one who is pure," but "one who belongs
to God."

The sphere of this holiness is to be in "your hearts." It is always to be noticed that in Scripture
the "heart" includes the intellect, the emotions, and the will. In a word, it is the centre
of our moral and spiritual being; and when this is understood we can see at once the point
and importance of the heart being holy, for it is only another way of saying that our entire
being is to be separated from all else in order to be possessed by, and consecrated to, God.

The standard of holiness is also brought before us in this prayer--"Stablish your hearts unblameable
in holiness." The Apostle prays that they may be steadfast, not weak and vacillating. The great
need was for solidity and steadfastness, as it is in the present day, for it is only when the
heart is established by grace and in holiness that it can in any true sense serve God. This
emphasis on a fixed or stablished heart is brought before us several times in Holy Scripture
(cf. Ps. lvii. 7, cviii. 1, cxii. 7; Heb. xiii. 9).

And steadfast hearts will be "unblameable" hearts, hearts that are not blameworthy. A clear
distinction is to be drawn between unblameable hearts and unblemished hearts. A little child
may perform a task which in the result is full of blemishes, though the child, having done
his best, is entirely without blame. In like manner, though the believer is not free from blemish,
it is nevertheless possible for him to live free from blame. This is the meaning of the Apostle,
and the reason of his prayer.

In all this we can see the close connection between love and holiness. When our hearts are
filled to overflowing with the love of God to us, and of our love to Him, the inevitable result
is holiness, a heart separated unto God, "strengthened with all might," and "ready unto every
good work."

Consider the great incentive he urges--"Before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord
Jesus Christ with all His saints." The Apostle puts before his readers the great future to
which they were to look, and he urges upon them this love and this holiness in the light of
the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and all that it will mean to the people of God. St. Paul
draws a wonderful picture of that day in a very few words. He speaks first of all of God's
presence there: "Before God, even our Father." Then he reminds us of the presence of the Lord
Jesus Christ. And last of all he tells us that "the saints" will be there also. Thus, surrounded
by our fellow-Christians, and in the presence of our God and Saviour, we shall see as we are
seen, and know as we are known, with hearts "unblameable in holiness."

This, then, is what the Apostle prays for his beloved friends in Thessalonica--abounding love
and perfect holiness. This is Christianity and the normal Christian life. How simple it all
is, summed up in the words Love and Holiness. And yet how searching it is! The simplest things
are often the most difficult, and while it is possible for the believer to do great things
and to shine in great crises, it is not always so easy to go on loving day by day, and to continue
growing in grace and holiness, until the heart becomes so stablished in grace that our Christianity
becomes the permanent character of our life. Yet this is God's purpose for each one of us.
And the fact that the Apostle prayed for this is a clear proof that an answer was expected,
and that the purpose can be realised.

II.

CONSECRATION AND PRESERVATION.

II.

CONSECRATION AND PRESERVATION. Faithful is He that calleth you, Who also
    will do it."--1 THESS. v. 23, 24.

As we consider these prayers of the Apostle, we become increasingly aware of what he felt to
be the most important elements in the Christian life. The prayers all have reference to Christian
living, and whether we think of the character of the life portrayed, or the standard held up
in them, we can readily see their intense practical value for daily living. We may be pretty
sure that those things for which he prayed on behalf of his converts were the things he regarded
as most essential in Christian character and conduct.

The prayer that now calls for consideration is that found in 1 Thess. v. 23, 24.

1. THE PETITION.

He prays for their sanctification--"Sanctify you wholly." As already noted, the root idea of
sanctification, and of its cognate expressions, "holiness," "holy," and the like, is separation.
We see this very clearly in connection with buildings or things which are said to be "holy"
or "sanctified." It is obvious that no thought of purification is applicable to buildings and
inanimate objects. We must, therefore, understand sanctification in this case as equivalent
to consecration. This is also the root-meaning of the word "sanctify" in relation to persons,
and it may be questioned whether the word, as used in the original, ever really includes in
it the idea of purification; the latter thought has another set of words altogether. The Apostle
therefore prays that they may be consecrated, set apart from all else, for the possession and
service of God. This meaning may be aptly illustrated from our Lord's words about Himself:
"For their sakes I consecrate Myself, that they also may be consecrated through the truth"
(John xvii. 19).

The extent of this consecration is very noteworthy--"Sanctify you wholly." The word rendered
"wholly" is used in connection with the Old Testament sacrifices in the Septuagint, and implies
the entire and complete separation of the offering for the purpose intended. The Christian
life must be wholly, entirely, and unreservedly consecrated to God, no part being reserved
or held back, but everything handed over and regarded as permanently and completely belonging
to Him.

He prays for their preservation--"Preserved blameless." The consecration is to be maintained
in continual preservation, in and for God. The consecration as an act is to be deepened into
an attitude, so that, day by day, and hour by hour, the separated life may be maintained, and
preserved in readiness for every call that God may make.

The extent of this preservation is also observable--"Your whole spirit and soul and body."
The spirit is that inmost part of our life which is related to God. The soul is the inner life
regarded in itself, as the seat and sphere of intellect, heart, and will. The body is the outward
vehicle and expression of the soul and spirit through which we are enabled to serve God. The
order of these three should be observed. It is not, as we often say, and sing in certain hymns,
"body, soul, and spirit," but the very reverse--"spirit, soul, and body." The Apostle starts
from within and works outward, thereby reminding us that if the spirit or deepest part of our
nature is wholly surrendered to God, this fact will express itself in every part of our nature,
and we shall be consecrated wholly. What a searching requirement this is, and what a solemnity
and responsibility it gives to life! Whether in relation to God, or in relation to man, whether
for worship or work, character or conduct, prayer or practice, we are to be wholly consecrated,
and continually kept for the Master's use--

  "That all my powers with all their might,
  In Thy sole glory may unite."

2. THE PRE-REQUISITE.

"The God of Peace Himself." The Divine title associated with this prayer as its definite presupposition
and pre-requisite is very significant, as, indeed, is every title of God. There is always some
special point of direct connection between the way in which God is addressed and the prayer
that follows. In the present instance the prayer for consecration and preservation is addressed
to "The God of Peace Himself."

The Apostle lays special stress upon the fact that it is God "Himself" Who consecrates and
keeps us. As with salvation, so with consecration--it is and must be Divine. The work is entirely
beyond any mere human power, and while there is a truth in our frequent reference to consecration
as something that we ourselves have to effect, it is far more scriptural, and, therefore, much
more helpful, to endeavour to limit the idea of consecration to the Divine side, and to think
of it as an act of God, to which the corresponding human act and attitude is that of dedication.
It is God Himself Who separates us, marks us off as His own, and designates us for His use
and service. It is God Himself, and no one else, for we are here brought into personal and
blessed association with the Divine power and grace.

Further, God is described as "The God of Peace," and we naturally ask what it means, and why
peace is thus associated with consecration and preservation. This title, "The God of Peace,"
is found very frequently in the writings of St. Paul, and it deserves careful consideration
in each passage. There is a twofold peace in Scripture, sometimes described as "peace with
God" (Rom. v. 1), at others as "the peace of God" (Phil. iv. 7); and they both have their source
in the "God of Peace" (Phil. iv. 9). Peace is the result of reconciliation with God. Our Lord
made peace by the Blood of His Cross (Col. i. 20), and the acceptance of His atoning sacrifice
through faith brings peace to the soul. This consciousness of reconciliation in turn causes
a blessed sense of restfulness and peace to spring up in the heart, and thus we have the peace
of God within us.

The connection between peace and holiness is close and essential. It is impossible for anyone
to understand consecration until they have experienced reconciliation. Holiness must be based
on righteousness, and righteousness is only possible to those who have accepted the Lord Jesus
as God's righteousness through faith. So long as there is any enmity in the heart, or even
any uncertainty as to our acceptance in Christ Jesus, holiness is an impossibility. May not
the forgetfulness of this fact be the cause of surprise and disappointment at Christian Conventions
from time to time? May it not be that many go to such gatherings longing to be made holy who
have not settled this question of their standing before God and their peace as the result of
acceptance of Christ's atonement? To understand and experience what holiness means before enjoying
peace with God is like trying to take a second step before attempting the first. Only through
peace can holiness come, and only as we have blessed personal experience of God as the God
of peace can a prayer like this be answered.

3. THE PROSPECT.

"Unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ." Once again the Apostle prays with special reference
to that glorious day to which he was always looking and pointing his readers. As he looks forward
to that day he uses again a favourite word, "blameless," and suggests to us the great and wonderful
possibility of being so consecrated and preserved that we may lead a blameless life day by
day until the coming of our Lord. Holiness is thus associated once again with the great future.
The Apostle finds in the coming of the Lord one of the most potent reasons why Christians should
be consecrated and preserved. This close and intimate connection between holiness, and what
we term the Second Advent, needs much stronger emphasis in daily living and in church teaching
than it often has in the present day. There is, in its way, nothing more powerful as a reason
for holiness than the thought of the certainty and imminence of the Lord's coming.

4. THE PROMISE.

"Faithful is He that calleth you, Who also will do it." Lest we should be tempted to think
that so wonderful a prayer could not be fulfilled in daily experience, the Apostle adds this
blessed assurance that God, Who puts this ideal before us, will enable us to realise it. The
promise is undoubted--"Who also will do it." What He has promised He is also able to perform.
If only our hearts are right with Him, and are willing to say, "Yea, let Him take all," God
will, indeed, consecrate and preserve us blameless unto the end. The guarantee of this lies
in His Divine faithfulness. "Faithful is He that calleth you." We are touching the bed-rock
of Divine revelation when we contemplate the faithfulness of God. This phrase is often found
in the New Testament: "God is faithful." "The Lord is faithful." "Faithful is He." "This is
a faithful saying." If our hearts will only rest upon this we shall find in it, not only the
most exquisite joy and assured peace, but also the ground of our perfect confidence that He
will accomplish His purposes in us, and glorify Himself in our lives.

It is well and necessary from time to time to look at holiness from the human point of view,
and to see our duty and responsibility; but it is equally essential and important that we should
also dwell upon holiness, as in the passage before us, from the Divine standpoint, and keep
well in view the glorious realities of God's faithfulness, God's power, God's grace. To be
occupied unduly with self in the matter of holiness is to become self-centred, morbid, fearful,
and weak; to be occupied with God is to be restful, quiet, strong, confident, and ever growing
in grace.

III.

APPROBATION AND BLESSING.

III.

APPROBATION AND BLESSING.

Two words sum up the Christian life--Grace and Glory; and both are associated with the two
Comings of the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace particularly with the first Coming, and Glory especially
with the second. This twofold aspect of Christianity comes before us in the prayer of the Apostle
which we now have to consider.

1. THE REASON OF THE PRAYER.

This thought is brought before us very clearly in the Revised Version: "To which end we also
pray." In the Authorised Version it is: "Wherefore also we pray." Following the original, the
R.V. refers definitely to what has preceded. The whole context is a reason for the prayer which
now follows.

The Triumphant Future is part of the reason of his prayer. "When He shall come to be glorified
in His saints, and to be marvelled at in all them that believe in that day." The Apostle looks
forward to "the crowning day" that is coming, and bases upon this glorious hope the prayer
that follows.

The Testing Present is another part of the reason for this prayer. The Church of Thessalonica
was suffering persecutions and afflictions, and was passing through the fire of testing (vers.
4-7); and it was this fact--their then-existing severe experiences--that prompted the Apostle
to pray for them, as well as to express the hope concerning their deliverance from the furnace
of affliction.

Thus present and future are blended in his thought, and form the ground or reason of his intercession.

2. THE NATURE OF THE PRAYER.

Two elements sum up this beautiful prayer.

He asks for the Divine Approval on their life: "That God may count you worthy of your calling."
God's "calling" is His summons into His kingdom. The kingdom may be regarded both as present
and future. In the Gospels it would seem as though the "calling" were limited to His invitation
or appeal, while in the Epistles it appears to include the believer's response to the call.
For this reason it is sometimes spoken of as God's "calling," and at others, as in this case,
as "your calling." The thought of a Divine calling responded to by the believer is prominent
in the teaching of St. Paul, and should be carefully studied. Even in these Epistles to the
Thessalonians, the idea is frequently found (1 Thess. ii. 12, iv. 7, v. 24; 2 Thess. ii. 14).

"Count you worthy" is a notable phrase repeated from verse 5: "Counted worthy of the kingdom
of God." Seven times this verb is used by St. Paul. As we ponder it we catch something of the
wondrous glory of our life as contemplated by the King of Kings. Surely, it may be said, the
believer can never be "worthy"; and this is true if he is considered in himself. But just as
it is with justification, which means "accounted just," so with sanctification--by the unspeakable
grace of God we are actually "counted worthy." Hooker's well-known words about justification
may be quoted in this connection as illustrating the thought of worthiness in sanctification.
"God doth justify the believing man, yet not for the worthiness of his belief, but for His
worthiness Who is believed." So we may say, God doth count the believing man worthy, yet not
for any personal worthiness, but for the worthiness which is wrought by grace. We must, however,
not fail to notice that the believer is responsible for his use of grace, and that the very
thought of God counting us worthy has included in it the thought of scrutiny with a view to
decision.

He seeks the Divine Blessing on their life: "And fulfil every desire of goodness and every
work of faith with power." This, which is the rendering of the R.V., seems, on the whole, the
more intelligible and appropriate. It means, "all that goodness can desire, and all that faith
can effect." It blends together the two ideas of aspiration and activity--the aspiration of
goodness and the activity of trust--and it prays that God would fulfil with power, or powerfully,
every aspiration that comes from goodness, and every activity that springs from faith. Just
as in the familiar words of the Collect for Easter Day, God first puts into "our minds good
desires," and then by His "continual help" we are enabled to "bring the same to good effect."
By "His holy inspiration we think those things that are good, and by His merciful guiding we
perform the same."

3. THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE PRAYER.

Notice the twofold consequence here stated.

He expects that God will be glorified in us. Glory in the New Testament, and, indeed, in the
whole Bible, is the outshining of splendour, and the Apostle seeks in answer to prayer that
Christ may reveal in our lives the glory of His grace. This includes both our present and future
lives. Christ is to be manifested by and glorified in us here, and He will be manifested by
and glorified in us hereafter (ver. 10). What an unspeakable privilege and what a profound
responsibility lie in this simple fact that Christ is to shine forth from our lives, and that
men around us are to see something of Christ as they associate with us. One of the most beautiful
testimonies ever given to a Christian was that of a poor dying outcast girl to a lady who had
befriended her: "I have not found it hard to think about God since I knew you."

He also expects that we shall be glorified in Christ. This is, in a way, more wonderful still.
There is to be a reciprocal glory; and, actually, marvellous though it seems, we are to have
our share of glory in Christ. This, again, has its application to the present, as well as to
the future, for every life that is loyal to Christ is glorified in union and communion with
Him. And in the great future it will be seen and known on every hand who have been faithful
to their Lord and Master. "Then shall the righteous shine forth as stars in the kingdom of
their Father."

4. THE GUARANTEE OF THE PRAYER.

The Apostle scarcely ever prayed without reminding himself and his readers of the secret whereby
prayer is answered. Accordingly he closes this prayer with a reminder that the guarantee of
its fulfilment is the grace of God--"According to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ."

God is the Source of all grace. How lovingly the Apostle speaks of "our God" and "our Lord
Jesus" in this verse! Elsewhere in his Epistles we also find this appropriating phrase, "Our
God" (1 Thess. ii. 2, iii. 9; 1 Cor. vi. 11). As in the still more personal phrase, "My God,"
which we find about seven times in his writings, St. Paul expresses his consciousness of personal
possession and the blessed reality of fellowship with God. "This God is our God," as the Psalmist
says.

Christ is the Channel of grace. The Lord Jesus Christ being associated with God in this connection
is a reminder that it is "the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ" as much as the grace of our God.
He mediates grace to us, and through faith in Christ we are linked to God as the "God of all
grace."

What a cheer and inspiration it is to have the assurance and guarantee that even a prayer like
this, with its high standard and far-reaching possibilities, can and will be answered. Christianity
provides not only an appeal, but a dynamic. He Who bids, enables; He Who calls, provides. The
Gospel of Jesus Christ is at once a precept, a promise, a provision, and a power. The religions
of the world often tell us to "Be good," but it is left for Christianity to proclaim that "He
died to make us good." As a result, the Christian can say with Augustine: "Give what Thou commandest
and then command what Thou wilt." That is: "Only give me the spiritual power, and then I can
do anything that Thou requirest of me." As the Psalmist cried: "I will run in the path of Thy
commandments, when Thou hast set my heart at liberty."

Thus the Christian life is at once a life of Grace and a life of Glory. "First Grace, then
Glory." "No Grace, no Glory." "More Grace, more Glory." "If Grace, then Glory."

IV.

LOVE AND PEACE.

IV.

LOVE AND PEACE. 5, R.V.

    "The Lord of peace Himself give you peace always by all means."--2
    THESS. iii. 16.

It is striking to note the number of prayers in these two short Epistles to Thessalonica. They
are probably the earliest of the Apostle's writings, and the frequency of his prayers is a
significant testimony to his thought for his converts and their needs.

Hardly less striking is the variety of the prayers, of which we have already had several proofs.
There are still two prayers to be considered in the second Epistle, very terse petitions, yet
full of suggestiveness and importance. It will be convenient to consider these two together,
not only because of their brevity, but also because of the spiritual connection between them.

1. THE GOAL.

The context of the prayer is noteworthy. The Apostle had been asking for their prayers, more
particularly for deliverance from evil men. Then comes the strong assurance that God in His
faithfulness would keep them from evil, together with the expression of his own personal confidence
concerning them that they would be faithful to his counsels and commands. And then follows
the prayer of our text in which he asks that their hearts may be directed to that Divine goal
which is, and ever must be, the true home of the soul.

"Your hearts." Once again does the Apostle lay stress on this central reality of their spiritual
and moral being. The heart is the citadel of the life, and the usage of the term in the Word
of God must ever be kept clearly before us. It includes, as we have already seen, intellectual,
emotional, and volitional elements. There is no such contrast in the New Testament between
"the head" and "the heart" as we are now often accustomed to make, for intellect, feelings,
and will are all comprised in the Biblical meaning. If, therefore, the heart is right, all
else will be right. It was for this reason that Solomon gave the counsel to keep the heart
"above all keeping," since "out of it are the issues of life."

"Into the love of God." The phrase seems to suggest the direction of the heart towards a goal--"Into
the love." This must mean first and foremost the love of God to us, for this is the true goal
and home of the soul. Home is at once a protection, a fellowship, and a joy. "There's no place
like home;" and there is no place like the love of God as a home for the soul. In that love
we find constant protection, for all the refuge and safety of a true home are experienced there.
Not least of all, in this home of the soul, is perfect and permanent satisfaction. Just as
when the door closes upon us and we know that we are within the privacy, comfort, cheer, and
fellowship of home, we find blessed restfulness and satisfaction, so when the soul enters the
home of God's love it soon realises the fulness of satisfaction, for it is "satisfied with
favour, full with the blessing of the Lord." Love that is deep, unfathomable, constant, pure,
unchanging, Divine, is our everlasting home. It is recorded that Spurgeon once saw a weathercock
with the words on it, "God is love." On remarking to the owner that it was very inappropriate,
since God's love did not change like a weathercock, he received the reply that the real meaning
was, "God is love whichever way the wind blows." This is the experience of the believer. Whatever
comes, wherever he is, he knows that "God is love."

It is possible, perhaps probable, that this phrase, "the love of God," may also include our
love to God. At any rate, in several passages it is almost impossible to make a rigid distinction
between the two ideas (cf. Rom. v. 5). The one is the source of the other, and "we love Him
because He first loved us." Love from God begets love to God, and when once the soul has entered
into God's love as its goal and home, love at once begins to be the spring, the strength, the
sustenance, and the satisfaction of its life.

"Into the patience of Christ." The Authorised Version has somewhat misread this verse by translating
it "into the patient waiting for Christ," which would need another expression in the Greek.
It really refers to active, persistent, steady endurance rather than to patient waiting. It
refers to present patience, not to a future prospect. The patience of Christ must mean the
active endurance which is like His, the endurance of which He is the pattern. How marvellously
He "endured the contradiction of sinners against Himself"! How striking is the statement that
"He set His face steadfastly to go to Jerusalem"! Whether in suffering or in service, our Lord
"endured as seeing Him who is invisible"; and having endured to the end, He became our Saviour.

But "the patience of Christ" is also the endurance which comes from Him. He is not only our
pattern, but also our power, since He enables us to endure with a like endurance to His own.
As the Apostle says elsewhere: "I have power for all things in Him who is empowering me." To
have a pattern without the power to realise it, to have our Lord's example without His efficacy
and energy, would be of little practical use except to discourage and to mock us; but He who
sets the standard supplies the strength, and our hearts are thus enabled to enter into and
abide in the endurance of Christ.

