Another beautiful trip from Hobart is a journey of 20 miles up the river Derwent to New Norfolk.
The steamer takes about three hours. About halfway the river is crossed by the main line railway
at Bridgewater, and up to this point is of a considerable width. On the North the river skirts
the wooded sides of Mount Direction, on the South Mount Wellington almost fills up the landscape.
After passing Bridgewater the river much narrows, and further on the woods descend to the water's
edge in some places, reminding the traveller of the Dart between Dartmouth and Totnes. Just
before reaching New Norfolk a huge rock, called from its shape the Pulpit Rock, quite overhangs
the river. A branch line from Bridgewater to New Norfolk was being made along the North side,
close to the water's edge, and now the Pulpit Rock has been removed, for though a picturesque
object it looked dangerous, and everything must, of course, give way to railways. On landing
at the wharf at New Norfolk, a boy came forward and offered to drive me to the well-known salmon
ponds, where, for a good many years, attempts have been made to rear salmon from ova brought
from England, but it is doubtful whether they have met with success. Small fish have certainly
been raised, but the question is whether they are salmon, and it is said none have attained
a size sufficiently large to solve the enigma. The distance is only a few miles, and the drive
is pretty, but ten shillings was too much for the pleasure of a solitary journey, for there
was no one else likely to be a passenger in the winter time. New Norfolk lies pleasantly situated
in a valley on the South side of the Derwent. The soil is favourable for hops, which have been
introduced from England, and grow well here. I have been told that the freight of hops from
Tasmania to England is less than the carriage from some parts of Kent to London; but as the
carriage, say from Maidstone to London, is about one and sixpence per pocket, they could be
carried at such a rate from Tasmania only as a back freight, and when the owner wants anything
to fill up. For the night I put up at the "Bush," the favourite and principal inn, but now
I was the only guest. After dark I started out to see the little township, but as the moon
was only in its first quarter, and there was no artificial light, not much could be made out
then. Launceston and Hobart are the only towns that have gas, and while the moon is shining,
or is due to shine, even that is not lighted--a piece of economy that may be excused where
gas is about ten shillings per thousand. The next day I returned by land to Hobart, travelling
to Bridgewater by a top-heavy coach, which at every turn sent my heart into my mouth, but it
was skilfully driven.

Tasmania cannot be said to have progressed much of late years, yet it does make progress, and
is not now receding as it was when Sir C. Dilke visited it about 20 years ago. I do not know
that any land is now allowed to go out of cultivation as was then the case. It has not been
entirely its own fault either. The protective duties of Victoria have much checked the exportation
of fruit and jam. The question of Protection versus Free Trade is a permanent subject of controversy
in the Colonies. At the present moment the Premier of Victoria is a Free Trader, while the
Chief Secretary is an ardent Protectionist. If this difference of opinion exists in the most
advanced and populous colony, what certainty of policy can be looked for in the others? The
best solution would probably be an intercolonial Zollverein, towards which events seem to be
tending. Whether eventually it will include Great Britain is a part of the wider question of
Federation. That Tasmania is a country with many resources--especially mineral wealth--as yet
undeveloped, is a conclusion at which most people will arrive, even after a short visit to
the colony; but, how soon and in what way this development will take place depends, of course,
upon the character of the inhabitants, and this character will, no doubt, improve as the remembrances
of the convict life, which has so blighted this beautiful island, gradually recede into the
dim distance of the past.

VI.

Auckland and Sydney.

I do not know that I have any right to say anything about New Zealand, seeing that I was only
three days upon the North Island. I had indeed intended to have paid a proper visit. I had
intended seeing the famous pink and white terraces (now alas! destroyed), and the rest of the
lake district; and at various places I had a good many introductions from friends. But the
force of circumstances--sometimes said to be another name for weakness of will--intervened,
and my fine schemes ended ingloriously in a flying visit to Auckland, on a business matter.

I have before alluded to the excellent steamers of the Union S.S. Co., of New Zealand. This
Company appears to have a monopoly of the trade between Australia and New Zealand, and if their
steamers continue as they now are there is not much reason to fear competition. They start
from Melbourne, call at Hobart, run across to the South of the island of New Zealand, then,
calling at the principal ports along the whole length of the east coast of the two islands
till they reach Auckland, they steam straight across to Sydney. The same journey is made back
again from Sydney to Melbourne. The route is sometimes varied, but this is the usual course.
The names of their steamers are from lakes in New Zealand, Tarawera, Wairarapa, Te Anau, &c.,
while the steamers of the New Zealand Shipping Co. are named from mountains, as Tongariro,
Aorangi, Rimutaka, &c. On the day that I had arranged to leave Hobart by the Union line for
New Zealand, it happened that one of the New Zealand Co.'s steamers called in for coal, and
as this steamer--a fine vessel of 4,000 tons--was going direct to Auckland it suited me much
better. She had come round the Cape, thus avoiding the heat of the Suez Canal. This is a monthly
service direct to New Zealand. The Shaw Savill and Albion Line also has a monthly service,
so that every fortnight there is a steamer direct from England arriving in New Zealand. The
sea was smooth, and consequently the passage was quick. On the morning of the third day we
passed the Snares Rocks, to the south of Stewart's Island. On the fifth, the snowy sides of
the Kaikoura mountains were glittering in the morning sun as we passed a few miles from shore,
and about 4 o'clock on the morning of the eighth day, we were alongside the wharf in the spacious
harbour of Auckland. Close by, my eye was caught by the "Ohau," a small steamer, which, as
it happened, I had seen launched about nine months previously at Dumbarton--little expecting
to see it again.

It is doubtful whether New Zealand belongs geographically to Australia or to the Pacific Islands.
It is said that some shocks of earthquake in New Zealand have been felt in Tasmania. On the
other hand there is above a thousand miles of rough sea between Australia and New Zealand,
with no connecting islands between, and nature presents quite a different aspect in the two
countries. The gum tree is the principal tree on the Australian continent, the Kauri pine in
New Zealand. In the latter country there are no kangaroos, no emus, no snakes, in fact very
few indigenous animals. The bones of a gigantic bird, the moa, are to be found, but the bird
itself has long been extinct. Every variety of climate and scenery may be found in New Zealand.
The winter of the South Island is as rigorous as that of England, while the North Island nearly
reaches the tropics. In the North Island are the famous hot lakes; in the South the very lofty
range of mountains known as the Southern Alps, which attains a height of 13,000 feet in Mount
Cook. The scenery on the South-west coast, from Milford Sound downwards, where the sea runs
up many miles into the land, and the steamer passes through narrow straits between perpendicular
walls of rock, has often been compared to that of the wilder fiords of Norway. It is little
more than forty years since New Zealand was colonized by Europeans, but already shoals of books
have been written about it. The Maoris, as is well known, are not the original inhabitants.
Their traditions relate--and they are confirmed by independent investigations--that they came
about 400 years ago from the South Sea Islands, and drove out or exterminated the natives.
As a fact the Maoris are immeasurably superior to the Australian natives. Captain Cook, in
describing his landing in 1769, says, "one of the natives raised his spear, as if to dart it
at the boat; the coxswain fired, and shot him dead,"--a melancholy omen of the future relations
between the natives and the strangers. The Maori wars have cost us many lives, but, of course,
have always had the same ending. The natives have gradually been straitened in room, and their
numbers have steadily declined. It is true that the census of 1881 shows a rather larger number
of natives (44,000 odd) than in 1858, but in the latter year it was probably not so accurately
made, and there is little doubt that they are now rapidly diminishing. They are nearly all
in the North Island, in the neighbourhood of the Hot Lake district. The portion specially alloted
to them is called the King Country, and no European may enter this without permission. Thus
they have prevented the ascent of Mount Tongariro, which is tapu, or sacred. They are now much
better treated than formerly, and send four members to Parliament. In their language there
is no s or f, vowels are very numerous, and every word ends with a vowel. The sound of the
words, therefore, is easy and flowing, and the native names are far more euphonious than those
of Australia.

There is already a good deal of literature about the Maoris, their habits and customs and religious
ideas. No doubt they are of the widely-spread Malay race, which has over-run the South Pacific.
The religious notions of the most different races in a certain stage of civilization much resemble
one another. We know, for instance, that the Greeks of Homer's time (whatever that was) besides
worshipping the gods of Olympus, identified every ruin, mountain, or cape with some superhuman
person--whether demon, or hero, or nymph. So we read (in Wakefield's adventures in New Zealand)
that the chief Heu-Heu appeals to his ancestor the great mountain Tongariro, "I am the Heu-Heu,
and rule over you all just as my ancestor, Tongariro, the mountain of Snow, stands above all
this land." Heu-Heu refused permission to anyone to ascend the mountain, on the ground that
it was his tipuna or ancestor,--"he constantly identified himself with the mountain, and called
it his sacred ancestor." The mountains in New Zealand are accounted by the natives male and
female. Tarawera and Taranaki, two male mountains, once quarrelled about the affections of
a small volcanic female mountain in the neighbourhood. A great deal about the transactions
between the New Zealand Government and the natives may be learnt from the recent interesting
libel action of Bryce v. Rusden, in which the former, who has been native minister in the Government,
recovered £5000 damages against the defendant, the author of a History of New Zealand. Up to
1876 the islands were divided into nine provinces, each of which had a separate Council, subject
to the central Government at Wellington, but in that year the provincial Councils were abolished,
and the Government is now like that of the Australian Colonies, with a governor and two houses
of Parliament. The members of the Lower House are paid. In "Greater Britain," Sir Charles Dilke,
making a contrast between New Zealand and Australia, suggests that New Zealand is aristocratic
and Australia democratic. To me they appeared equally democratic. The payment of members is
an advanced step even in a democracy.

Auckland is by far the largest town in the North Island, with its suburbs, now containing nearly
50,000 inhabitants. Up to 1864 it was also the seat of Government, but that was then moved
to Wellington as being a more central town. There is much rivalry between Auckland and Dunedin,
the largest town in the South Island. Dunedin is the capital of the pro-provincial district
of Otago, which is chiefly inhabited by Scotch, or people of Scotch descent. The Scotch have
the great merit of sticking to their friends. If there is anything to be done or gained, a
Scotchman naturally gets the preference. I heard an amusing illustration of this on the way
to New Zealand. At one of the ports in Otago a steamer required new boilers, and tenders were
asked for. One was much lower than the others, and was accepted. The name of the contractor
appeared to be Macpherson, but when sent for he turned out to be a Chinaman. He had been shrewd
enough to see that he had no chance of getting the work in his own name. The total population
of New Zealand is a little over 500,000, and the public debt is about £37,000,000. This seems
to show that taxation must be high. A good deal of this large amount has, it is true, been
expended on railways, which all belong to the State, and therefore the burden, though heavy,
is not quite so heavy as it appears at first sight. A friend at Auckland told me that New Zealand
is a paradise for working-men and for men with capital, who can safely lend it at a high rate
of interest. It is probably, too, a capital place for domestic servants, who everywhere in
the Colonies seem to have pretty much their own way. I have also heard that dentists are much
in request. A lady, living near Auckland, had to drive twelve miles, and then put her name
down in a book three weeks beforehand, to see the dentist! But for people who want to find
something to do, and have no money and no manual skill, the prospect is not so smiling. For
instance, I should not imagine that teaching is a lucrative pursuit--private teaching that
is to say, for in public teaching the supply is in excess of the demand, and, no doubt, rightly
so, in a young community. New Zealand annually spends on education £500,000, or £1 per head
of the population, a higher proportion than is spent by any other country. Formerly there was
the University of Otago and the University of New Zealand, but the former has now ceased to
have the power of conferring degrees, and has been virtually amalgamated with the University
of New Zealand. This University has affiliated colleges at Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch,
and Dunedin, though the latter is still styled the University of Otago. Each of these colleges
has a staff of highly-paid professors, with not much to do as yet in the strict line of business,
to judge by the number of students. But of course the taste for advanced education has to be
created before it can be much in request. The salaries are large enough to tempt over some
of the best men from England, but a professor is expected to come out as a public man much
more here than at home. He is expected to deliver a course of lectures in public, to entertain
socially, and to interest himself in local affairs. At Auckland they boasted that on their
School Board they had a Senior Classic and a Senior Wrangler.

Auckland is, as I said, the only town I actually visited in New Zealand. Of the town itself
there is not much to be said. It is not particularly interesting, and the climate is rather
relaxing; when it rains the roads are almost impassable with mud. But its situation is most
charming from its beauty, and most advantageous for trade. The harbour of Auckland is thought
by some to rival that of Sydney for beauty and commodiousness. From the summit of Mount Eden,
an extinct volcano, with a perfectly formed crater (its extinction, however, does not appear
so certain, after the recent experience of Mount Tarawera, which was thought to be equally
extinct), an extensive view of Auckland and the two seas is to be obtained. For at this point
the North Island is so narrow, that Manukau harbour on the west side comes close up to Auckland,
and at one point the distance across is only a mile and a half. There has been a project mooted
to cut through the narrow isthmus, and thus lessen the journey to Sydney by about 300 miles,
but all the harbours of New Zealand lie towards the Pacific, not towards Australia, and there
is a formidable bar at the entrance to Manukau harbour, so that after all the expense would
probably be too great. Auckland is on the direct track for steamers from San Francisco to Sydney,
and up to last year there was a regular service of three steamers, once a month--I forget the
name of the line. Many went by this route, as the fare from Sydney to London this way is only
£66, including the rail across America, but there were many complaints of the inferiority of
the steamers. That line has now ceased, but the Union Line of New Zealand now run their steamers
along the same route, and, I believe, have a subsidy from New Zealand and New South Wales for
the mail service to America. It was by one of the steamers of the former line, the "Zealandia,"
that I left Auckland for Sydney on the 28th June. The voyage took five days over a calm sea,
and was quite without incident. We were, however, enlivened by the presence of Mr. Dion Boucicault,
the well-known playwright and actor, with his company, who were on their way to fulfil engagements
in Melbourne and Sydney, after some years stay in America; we had many amusing, but highly-coloured
anecdotes. Among them one alone, told by an actor who died sadly and suddenly at Melbourne
a few weeks later, now remains in my memory. Some time previously he had been acting at Ottawa,
and the play was Richard III. He was Richmond, and in reply to his speech the Duke of Norfolk
says, "Your words are fire, my lord, and warm our men." On this occasion the army consisted
of one man, one woman (dressed as a soldier) and a boy, and the very conscientious duke replied,
"Your words are fire, my lord, and warm our man." I tell it as it was told me, but my friend
must have made some mistake. These words do not occur in Shakespeare's Richard III. (though
they may in the acting version) and at any rate there is no conversation between Richmond and
the Duke of Norfolk.

On arrival at Sydney I made no stay, but returned to Melbourne the next day by steamer. However,
I paid my visit of five weeks to Sydney a short time afterwards. This time I left Melbourne
by the very fine steamer Buninyong, of 3000 tons, belonging to Howard, Smith & Co., I believe
the largest of the Inter-Colonial Steamers. After passing Wilson's Promontory, the extreme
South point of Victoria, and indeed of Australia, the coast is in sight the whole way. After
about 54 hours we entered Sydney Heads. It was then twilight, and quite dark before we came
alongside the wharf. The entrance to the Heads at Sydney is about a mile wide, but is scarcely
seen before it is entered. The Cliffs on each side are several hundred feet high. The projecting
points of the Cliff on the North side, when seen at a certain angle, made a good imitation
of the Duke of Wellington's profile. A fast steamer from Melbourne takes about 48 hours, but
then fast steamers are sometimes dangerous; most people have read of the terrible wrecks of
the Cahors and the Lyeemoon, within a few months of each other, the two fastest steamers of
the Australian Steam Navigation Co.; the latter wreck caused the loss of 70 lives. Both were
the result of steering too close inland, to save an hour or two. To suspend or cancel a captain's
certificate, or even to prosecute him, is a small consolation for such things as these. Moreover,
when there is time to use the boats, they are too often found to be unseaworthy. The steamers
themselves are inspected by the Marine Board, and certificates granted for 6 months, but the
boats, though included in the certificate, are not separately examined. Being exposed to the
hot sun day after day, they become very dry, and consequently leak when wanted for use. If
the captain was bound to keep the boats seaworthy as distinct from the ship, he would be more
careful to have them tested now and then. Mr. Wm. Smith, of Sydney, has recently invented a
life-boat, which, it has been proved, cannot be upset. He has offered it freely to the Government,
but owing to differences with some officials of the Marine Board, it has never received a fair
trial at their hands. The recent loss of life at sea will not have been entirely useless, if
it directs public attention to his most valuable invention. The harbour of Sydney has been
often described, and I will not attempt to do so, especially as all descriptions of scenery
are unsatisfactory. They seldom convey any definite impression, and a good photograph is better
than any number of them. However, it disputes with that of Rio Janeiro, the name of the "finest
harbour in the world"--whatever that may mean exactly. In shape it somewhat resembles a huge
octopus, the innumerable creeks and inlets branching out like so many feelers, yet there can
scarcely be said to be a centre from which they radiate. Numberless steamers ply all day to
various points, mostly starting from the "Circular Quay," the principal wharf of the city.
Small steamers rush in everywhere up the smallest rivers, and have to be of the lightest draught.
In the summer many of the rivers are dry. The captain of one, not to be outbid by his rival,
advertised to start "the next heavy dew."

