Here, then, as it seems to them, is an enormous field for the energy of the reformer.  Here
are many noble goals attainable by many of those paths up the Hill Difficulty along which great
spirits love to aspire. Unhappily, the hill will never be climbed by Man as we know him.  It
need not be denied that if we all struggled bravely to the end of the reformers' paths we should
improve the world prodigiously.  But there is no more hope in that If than in the equally plausible
assurance that if the sky falls we shall all catch larks.  We are not going to tread those
paths: we have not sufficient energy.  We do not desire the end enough: indeed in more cases
we do not effectively desire it at all.  Ask any man would he like to be a better man; and
he will say yes, most piously. Ask him would he like to have a million of money; and he will
say yes, most sincerely.  But the pious citizen who would like to be a better man goes on behaving
just as he did before.  And the tramp who would like the million does not take the trouble
to earn ten shillings: multitudes of men and women, all eager to accept a legacy of a million,
live and die without having ever possessed five pounds at one time, although beggars have died
in rags on mattresses stuffed with gold which they accumulated because they desired it enough
to nerve them to get it and keep it.  The economists who discovered that demand created supply
soon had to limit the proposition to "effective demand," which turned out, in the final analysis,
to mean nothing more than supply itself; and this holds good in politics, morals, and all other
departments as well: the actual supply is the measure of the effective demand; and the mere
aspirations and professions produce nothing.  No community has ever yet passed beyond the initial
phases in which its pugnacity and fanaticism enabled it to found a nation, and its cupidity
to establish and develop a commercial civilization.  Even these stages have never been attained
by public spirit, but always by intolerant wilfulness and brute force. Take the Reform Bill
of 1832 as an example of a conflict between two sections of educated Englishmen concerning
a political measure which was as obviously necessary and inevitable as any political measure
has ever been or is ever likely to be.  It was not passed until the gentlemen of Birmingham
had made arrangements to cut the throats of the gentlemen of St. James's parish in due military
form.  It would not have been passed to this day if there had been no force behind it except
the logic and public conscience of the Utilitarians.  A despotic ruler with as much sense as
Queen Elizabeth would have done better than the mob of grown-up Eton boys who governed us then
by privilege, and who, since the introduction of practically Manhood Suffrage in 1884, now
govern us at the request of proletarian Democracy.

At the present time we have, instead of the Utilitarians, the Fabian Society, with its peaceful,
constitutional, moral, economical policy of Socialism, which needs nothing for its bloodless
and benevolent realization except that the English people shall understand it and approve of
it.  But why are the Fabians well spoken of in circles where thirty years ago the word Socialist
was understood as equivalent to cut-throat and incendiary?  Not because the English have the
smallest intention of studying or adopting the Fabian policy, but because they believe that
the Fabians, by eliminating the element of intimidation from the Socialist agitation, have
drawn the teeth of insurgent poverty and saved the existing order from the only method of attack
it really fears.  Of course, if the nation adopted the Fabian policy, it would be carried out
by brute force exactly as our present property system is. It would become the law; and those
who resisted it would be fined, sold up, knocked on the head by policemen, thrown into prison,
and in the last resort "executed" just as they are when they break the present law. But as
our proprietary class has no fear of that conversion taking place, whereas it does fear sporadic
cut-throats and gunpowder plots, and strives with all its might to hide the fact that there
is no moral difference whatever between the methods by which it enforces its proprietary rights
and the method by which the dynamitard asserts his conception of natural human rights, the
Fabian Society is patted on the back just as the Christian Social Union is, whilst the Socialist
who says bluntly that a Social revolution can be made only as all other revolutions have been
made, by the people who want it killing, coercing, and intimidating the people who dont want
it, is denounced as a misleader of the people, and imprisoned with hard labor to shew him how
much sincerity there is in the objection of his captors to physical force.

Are we then to repudiate Fabian methods, and return to those of the barricader, or adopt those
of the dynamitard and the assassin?  On the contrary, we are to recognize that both are fundamentally
futile.  It seems easy for the dynamitard to say "Have you not just admitted that nothing is
ever conceded except to physical force?  Did not Gladstone admit that the Irish Church was
disestablished, not by the spirit of Liberalism, but by the explosion which wrecked Clerkenwell
prison?" Well, we need not foolishly and timidly deny it.  Let it be fully granted.  Let us
grant, further, that all this lies in the nature of things; that the most ardent Socialist,
if he owns property, can by no means do otherwise than Conservative proprietors until property
is forcibly abolished by the whole nation; nay, that ballots, and parliamentary divisions,
in spite of their vain ceremony, of discussion, differ from battles only as the bloodless surrender
of an outnumbered force in the field differs from Waterloo or Trafalgar.  I make a present
of all these admissions to the Fenian who collects money from thoughtless Irishmen in America
to blow up Dublin Castle; to the detective who persuades foolish young workmen to order bombs
from the nearest ironmonger and then delivers them up to penal servitude; to our military and
naval commanders who believe, not in preaching, but in an ultimatum backed by plenty of lyddite;
and, generally, to all whom it may concern.  But of what use is it to substitute the way of
the reckless and bloodyminded for the way of the cautious and humane?  Is England any the better
for the wreck of Clerkenwell prison, or Ireland for the disestablishment of the Irish Church?
Is there the smallest reason to suppose that the nation which sheepishly let Charles and Laud
and Strafford coerce it, gained anything because it afterwards, still more sheepishly, let
a few strongminded Puritans, inflamed by the masterpieces of Jewish revolutionary literature,
cut off the heads of the three?  Suppose the Gunpowder plot had succeeded, and set a Fawkes
dynasty permanently on the throne, would it have made any difference to the present state of
the nation?  The guillotine was used in France up to the limit of human endurance, both on
Girondins and Jacobins. Fouquier Tinville followed Marie Antoinette to the scaffold; and Marie
Antoinette might have asked the crowd, just as pointedly as Fouquier did, whether their bread
would be any cheaper when her head was off. And what came of it all?  The Imperial France of
the Rougon Macquart family, and the Republican France of the Panama scandal and the Dreyfus
case.  Was the difference worth the guillotining of all those unlucky ladies and gentlemen,
useless and mischievous as many of them were? Would any sane man guillotine a mouse to bring
about such a result? Turn to Republican America.  America has no Star Chamber, and no feudal
barons.  But it has Trusts; and it has millionaires whose factories, fenced in by live electric
wires and defended by Pinkerton retainers with magazine rifles, would have made a Radical of
Reginald Front de Boeuf.  Would Washington or Franklin have lifted a finger in the cause of
American Independence if they had foreseen its reality?

No: what Cæsar, Cromwell, Napoleon could not do with all the physical force and moral prestige
of the State in their hands, cannot be done by enthusiastic criminals and lunatics.  Even the
Jews, who, from Moses to Marx and Lassalle, have inspired all the revolutions, have had to
confess that, after all, the dog will return to his vomit and the sow that was washed to her
wallowing in the mire; and we may as well make up our minds that Man will return to his idols
and his cupidities, in spite of "movements" and all revolutions, until his nature is changed.
Until then, his early successes in building commercial civilizations (and such civilizations,
Good Heavens!) are but preliminaries to the inevitable later stage, now threatening us, in
which the passions which built the civilization become fatal instead of productive, just as
the same qualities which make the lion king in the forest ensure his destruction when he enters
a city.  Nothing can save society then except the clear head and the wide purpose: war and
competition, potent instruments of selection and evolution in one epoch, become ruinous instruments
of degeneration in the next.  In the breeding of animals and plants, varieties which have arisen
by selection through many generations relapse precipitously into the wild type in a generation
or two when selection ceases; and in the same way a civilization in which lusty pugnacity and
greed have ceased to act as selective agents and have begun to obstruct and destroy, rushes
downwards and backwards with a suddenness that enables an observer to see with consternation
the upward steps of many centuries retraced in a single lifetime.  This has often occurred
even within the period covered by history; and in every instance the turning point has been
reached long before the attainment, or even the general advocacy on paper, of the levelling-up
of the mass to the highest point attainable by the best nourished and cultivated normal individuals.

We must therefore frankly give up the notion that Man as he exists is capable of net progress.
There will always be an illusion of progress, because wherever we are conscious of an evil
we remedy it, and therefore always seem to ourselves to be progressing, forgetting that most
of the evils we see are the effects, finally become acute, of long-unnoticed retrogressions;
that our compromising remedies seldom fully recover the lost ground; above all, that on the
lines along which we are degenerating, good has become evil in our eyes, and is being undone
in the name of progress precisely as evil is undone and replaced by good on the lines along
which we are evolving.  This is indeed the Illusion of Illusions; for it gives us infallible
and appalling assurance that if our political ruin is to come, it will be effected by ardent
reformers and supported by enthusiastic patriots as a series of necessary steps in our progress.
Let the Reformer, the Progressive, the Meliorist then reconsider himself and his eternal ifs
and ans which never become pots and pans.  Whilst Man remains what he is, there can be no progress
beyond the point already attained and fallen headlong from at every attempt at civilization;
and since even that point is but a pinnacle to which a few people cling in giddy terror above
an abyss of squalor, mere progress should no longer charm us.

VIII

THE CONCEIT OF CIVILIZATION

After all, the progress illusion is not so very subtle.  We begin by reading the satires of
our fathers' contemporaries; and we conclude (usually quite ignorantly) that the abuses exposed
by them are things of the past.  We see also that reforms of crying evils are frequently produced
by the sectional shifting of political power from oppressors to oppressed.  The poor man is
given a vote by the Liberals in the hope that he will cast it for his emancipators.  The hope
is not fulfilled; but the lifelong imprisonment of penniless men for debt ceases; Factory Acts
are passed to mitigate sweating; schooling is made free and compulsory; sanitary by-laws are
multiplied; public steps are taken to house the masses decently; the bare-footed get boots;
rags become rare; and bathrooms and pianos, smart tweeds and starched collars, reach numbers
of people who once, as "the unsoaped," played the Jew's harp or the accordion in moleskins
and belchers.  Some of these changes are gains: some of them are losses.  Some of them are
not changes at all: all of them are merely the changes that money makes.  Still, they produce
an illusion of bustling progress; and the reading class infers from them that the abuses of
the early Victorian period no longer exist except as amusing pages in the novels of Dickens.
But the moment we look for a reform due to character and not to money, to statesmanship and
not to interest or mutiny, we are disillusioned.  For example, we remembered the maladministration
and incompetence revealed by the Crimean War as part of a bygone state of things until the
South African war shewed that the nation and the War Office, like those poor Bourbons who have
been so impudently blamed for a universal characteristic, had learnt nothing and forgotten
nothing.  We had hardly recovered from the fruitless irritation of this discovery when it transpired
that the officers' mess of our most select regiment included a flogging club presided over
by the senior subaltern.  The disclosure provoked some disgust at the details of this schoolboyish
debauchery, but no surprise at the apparent absence of any conception of manly honor and virtue,
of personal courage and self-respect, in the front rank of our chivalry. In civil affairs we
had assumed that the sycophancy and idolatry which encouraged Charles I.  to undervalue the
Puritan revolt of the XVII century had been long outgrown; but it has needed nothing but favorable
circumstances to revive, with added abjectness to compensate for its lost piety.  We have relapsed
into disputes about transubstantiation at the very moment when the discovery of the wide prevalence
of theophagy as a tribal custom has deprived us of the last excuse for believing that our official
religious rites differ in essentials from those of barbarians.  The Christian doctrine of the
uselessness of punishment and the wickedness of revenge has not, in spite of its simple common
sense, found a single convert among the nations: Christianity means nothing to the masses but
a sensational public execution which is made an excuse for other executions.  In its name we
take ten years of a thief's life minute by minute in the slow misery and degradation of modern
reformed imprisonment with as little remorse as Laud and his Star Chamber clipped the ears
of Bastwick and Burton.  We dug up and mutilated the remains of the Mahdi the other day exactly
as we dug up and mutilated the remains of Cromwell two centuries ago.  We have demanded the
decapitation of the Chinese Boxer princes as any Tartar would have done; and our military and
naval expeditions to kill, burn, and destroy tribes and villages for knocking an Englishman
on the head are so common a part of our Imperial routine that the last dozen of them has not
called forth as much pity as can be counted on by any lady criminal.