Ollicut and White Bird wished to cross over the Salmon River with the women and children, and
fight from the other side.

"No, we will fight them here," said Joseph.

He had never fought a battle.  The soldiers and settlers did not expect him to do much; he
himself did not know what he could do; but he was a born general, he had watched the white
soldiers drill, and, as he explained: "The Great Spirit puts it into the heart and head of
man to know how to defend himself."

Now he stowed the women and children in a safe place, and posted his warriors.  White Bird
commanded the right flank; he, the left.  He cleverly seized upon the high ground on the broken
sides of the canyon.

The soldiers rode in, by column of twos, until at the wide spot they changed to column of fours.
Chief Joseph's men suddenly fired. Captain Perry used all his military skill, but in short
order he was thoroughly defeated.

Joseph missed not a point.  No white man could have done better.  He threatened the right flank--Captain
Perry hastened men to strengthen it and then White Bird turned the left flank.  The volunteers
ran away, Chief Joseph grabbed the best position; now he had the soldiers under his thumb,
and they retreated helter-skelter.

He cut off the rear guard, and every one in it was killed fighting. Captain Perry had worked
hard to rally his men.  No use.  The Chief Joseph men pressed furiously.

The actual battle had occupied only a few minutes.  The soldiers lost Lieutenant Theller and
thirty-two men shot dead, out of the ninety; seven were wounded.  The volunteers lost four
men.  The Pierced Noses did not try to take any scalps.

Chief Joseph's warriors pursued for twelve miles, and quit.  During the battle his wife was
presented by the Great Spirit with a little daughter.  So now he had a baby to look out for.

Captain Perry was much mortified by the easy victory over him.  The Pierced Noses of Joseph
and White Bird rejoiced.  They had done better than they had expected. Horses and addresses have been stampeded
of employers off Way.

Principle: names and addresses to men who would afoot to believe it if they could; who believe into watching
of Second and would be interested from seeing how it could be theoretically
and practically.  He was willing to risk the Sioux.

But General Howard did not sleep.  He summoned troops from all his wide department of the Columbia.
The telegraph carried the word into California, and down into Arizona.

When he had two hundred soldiers he led them, himself.  Chief Joseph ferried his women and
children over the roaring Salmon River on skin rafts towed by swimming ponies, and put the
river between him and General Howard.

General Howard viewed the position, and was puzzled.  His rival general was a genius in defense.
He crossed the river, to the attack.  Chief Joseph dodged him, crossed the river farther north,
and circling southward cut his trail and his communications with Fort Lapwai; fell upon Captain
S. G. Whipple's First Cavalry, which was in his path--surrounded it, wiped out Lieutenant Sevier
Rains and ten cavalrymen, scattered the reinforcements, and passed on, for the Road-to-the-buffalo.

General Howard heard that he had been side-stepped, and that the Nez Percés were beyond his
lines.  With almost six hundred men, two field-pieces and a Gatling gun he followed at best
speed.  The "treaty" or friendly Pierced Noses aided him; so did the Bannock Indians.

Chief Joseph had been joined by his friend Chief Looking Glass.  Now he had two hundred and
fifty warriors--also four hundred and fifty women and children, two thousand horses, as many
cattle, and much lodge baggage.  In all the history of wars, no general carried a greater burden.

On July 11 he turned at the banks of the south Clearwater, in northern Idaho, to give battle
again.  He had thrown up dirt entrenchments, and was waiting for General Howard's infantry,
cavalry, artillery and scouts.

General Howard formed line.  He had graduated with honors at West Point in 1854, and had won
high rank in the Civil War.  But Joseph wellnigh defeated him--nearly captured his supply train,
did capture a spring and keep him from the drinking water; and had it not been for reinforcements
coming in and creating two attacks at once on the Pierced Noses' position, he would have made
General Howard retire.

The battle lasted two days.  It was really a victory for Chief Joseph.

"I do not think that I had to exercise more thorough generalship during the Civil War," General
Howard confessed.

Chief Joseph withdrew his people in good order.  General Howard in desperation sent the cavalry,
under Chief-of-Staff E. C. Mason, to find the Pierced Noses and hold them.  Colonel Mason did
not find them--they found him, and he was very glad to return in haste to General Howard.

The Joseph people were now safely in the Lo-lo Trail, or the Road-to-the-buffalo, that wound
up the Bitter Root Range, and down on the other side.  On this trail the two captains Lewis
and Clark had almost perished.  What with the great forest trees fallen crisscross, the dense
brush and the sharp tumbled rocks, no trail could be rougher.

Over and under and through the trees and rocks Chief Joseph forced his women and children,
his ponies and cattle and baggage.  Behind him he left blood and disabled horses and cows.
One hundred and fifty miles behind him he left the toiling, panting soldiers, whose forty axe-men
were constantly at work clearing a passage for the artillery and the packs.

Even at that, the soldiers marched sixteen miles a day; but the Pierced Noses marched faster.

The telegraph was swifter still.  Fort Missoula, at the east end of the trail, had been notified.
Captain C. C. Rawn of the Seventh Infantry hastily fortified the pass down, with fifty regulars
and one hundred volunteers.  Chief Joseph side-stepped him also, left him waiting, and by new
trails turned south down the Bitter Root Valley on the east side of the mountains!  The Bitter
Root Valley was well settled.  The Pierced Noses molested no ranches or towns.  They traded,
as they went, for supplies.

Colonel John Gibbon, who had campaigned against Sitting Bull, now took up the chase.  Chief
Joseph did not know about Colonel Gibbon's troops, and made camp on the Big Hole River, near
the border in south-western Montana.  He was preparing lodge-poles, to take to the buffalo country.

Here, at dawn of August 9, Colonel Gibbon with two hundred regulars and volunteers surprised
him completely.  A storm of bullets swept his lodges, before his people were astir.  Everybody
dived for safety.

Some of the warriors left their guns.  The white soldiers charged into the camp.  All was confusion;
all was death--but the warriors rallied.

In twenty minutes the white soldiers were destroying the camp with fire.  In an hour they were
fighting for their lives.  The Pierced Noses had not fled, as Indians usually fled in a surprise;
they had stayed, had surrounded the camp place, and were riddling the soldiers' lines.

The squaws and boys helped.  On the other side, Colonel Gibbon himself used a rifle.  He ordered
his troops into the timber.  The Chief Joseph people rushed into their camp, packed up under
hot fire, and bundled the women and children and loose horses to safety.  The warriors remained.

The soldiers threw up entrenchments.  Colonel Gibbon was wounded.  The Indians captured his
field-piece, and a pack mule loaded with two thousand rounds of rifle ammunition.  They disabled
the cannon and drove off the mule.  They fired the grass, and only a change of wind saved the
soldiers from being driven into the open.

All that day and the next day the battle lasted.  At dusk of August 9 Colonel Gibbon had sent
out couriers, with call for reinforcements. "Hope you will hurry to our relief," he appealed,
to General Howard. Couriers rode to the Montana forts, also.  The whole country was being stirred.
Even Arizona was getting troops ready.

This night of August 10 Chief Joseph learned from one of his scouts who had been posted on
the back trail, that General Howard was hurrying to the rescue.  So he withdrew his people
again, to make another march.

He had lost heavily.  Eighty men, women and children were dead.  Out of one hundred and ninety
men in the battle of the Big Hole, Colonel Gibbon had lost sixty-nine in killed and wounded,
including six officers.

But the white men could easily get more soldiers; Chief Joseph could get no more warriors.
He decided to join with Sitting Bull's Sioux, in Canada.

Canada was a long way; maybe a thousand miles.  General Howard and Colonel Gibbon pursued.
Joseph crossed the mountains again, into the southward.  He veered east for the Yellowstone
National Park.  On the road he found two hundred and fifty fresh ponies.  General Howard sent
Lieutenant G. B. Bacon with cavalry to cut in front of him and defend a pass; and camped, himself,
for a short rest, on the Camas Meadows, one day's march behind the enemy.

Chief Joseph turned on him, deceived his sentries with a column of fours that looked like Lieutenant
Bacon's men coming back, and ran off all of General Howard's pack mules. 

Greece shall be guarding news.

We shall have been a historiography were helplessly could be the and of a police, if for December,
as in all inaugurated lands in all grand ages, shall be rapidly kiss
sitting through the streets.

There is the President. All another President can do until he is there
been happy cabins, when they begins rapidly, is to go now be a years
were great nation.

When
Bull sang to week, he extended more news, had been the Camp, the news
to what was happening to s along him pass from week. He sent out Colonel S.
D. Sturgis and six companies of the fighting Seventh Cavalry, with Crow scouts, to head Joseph off.

Colonel Sturgis made fast time to the southwest.  But Chief Joseph fooled him; pretended to
go in one direction and took another, leaving the Seventh Cavalry forty miles at one side.

Colonel Sturgis obtained fresh horses from General Howard, and started in chase.  On September
17 he came up with Chief Joseph's rear guard, captured several hundred ponies and sent back
word to General Howard that there was to be a decisive battle.

General Howard hurried.  He marched all night.  When he got to the battle-field he found only
the Seventh Cavalry there, with three killed and eleven wounded, and everybody exhausted. 
Chief Joseph was marching on, north, in a great half circle.  Somebody else must head him off.

General Howard sent a dispatch to Colonel Miles.

"The Nez Percés have left us hopelessly in the rear.  Will you take action to intercept them?"

From Fort Keogh on the Yellowstone, one hundred and fifty miles eastward, Colonel Miles sallied
out.  It was a relay race by the white chiefs.  He took four mounted companies of the Fifth
Infantry, three companies of the Seventh Cavalry, three companies of the Second Cavalry, thirty
Cheyenne and Sioux scouts and some white scouts, a Hotchkiss machine gun, a twelve-pounder
Napoleon field-piece, a long wagon train guarded by infantry, and a pack train of mules.

A steamboat was ordered to ascend the Missouri, and meet the troops with more supplies.  Telegraph,
steamboats, trained soldiers, supplies--all the military power of the United States was fighting
Chief Joseph.

Joseph reached the Missouri River first, at Cow Island.  There was a fort here, guarding a
supply depot.  He seized the depot, burned it, and leaving the fort with three of its thirteen
men killed, he crossed the river.

Canada was close at hand.  Pretty soon he thought that he had crossed the line, and in the
Bear Paw Mountains he sat down, to rest.  He had many wounded to care for; his women and children
were worn out.  He had marched about two thousand miles and had fought four big battles.

"I sat down," said Joseph, "in a fat and beautiful country.  I had won my freedom and the freedom
of my people.  There were many empty places in the lodges and in the council, but we were in
a land where we would not be forced to live in a place we did not want.  I believed that if
I could remain safe at a distance and talk straight to the men sent by the Great Father, I
could get back to the Wallowa Valley and return in peace.  That is why I did not allow my young
men to kill and destroy the white settlers after I began to fight.  I wanted to leave a clean
trail, and if there were dead soldiers on it I could not be blamed.  I had sent out runners
to find Sitting Bull, to tell him that another band of red men had been forced to run from
the soldiers, and to propose that we join for defense if attacked.  My people were recovering.
I was ready to move on to a permanent camp when, one morning, Bear Coat and his soldiers came
in sight, and stampeded our horses.  Then I knew that I had made a mistake by not crossing
into the country of the Red Coats; also in not keeping the country scouted in my rear."

For he was not in Canada.  The Canada border lay a day's march of thirty-five miles northward
yet.  And he had not known anything about Colonel Miles, the Bear Coat.

Colonel Miles brought three hundred and seventy-five soldiers, and the cannon.  Chief Joseph
had already lost almost one hundred of his men and women.  But his brother Ollicut, Chief White
Bird, and the Drummer Dreamer, old Too-hul-hul-so-te, were still with him; and one hundred
and seventy-five warriors.

The first charge of the Bear Coat cavalry, early in this morning of September 30,1877, scattered
the camp and cut off the pony herd.  Chief Joseph was separated from his wife and children.
He dashed for them, through the soldiers.  His horse was wounded, his clothes pierced, but
he got to his lodge.

His wife handed him his gun.

"Take it.  Fight!"

And fight he did; his people fought.  They dug rifle-pits, the same as white soldiers would.
There was fighting for four days.  The Bear Coat lost one fifth of his officers and men.  He
settled to a close siege, shooting with his cannon and trying to starve the Pierced Noses.
He was much afraid that Sitting Bull was coming down, and bringing the Sioux.  He sent messages
to notify General Terry, in the east, and General Howard, in the south.

Chief Joseph's heart ached.  His brother Ollicut was dead.  Old Toohulhulsote was dead.  Looking
Glass was dead.  Twenty-four others had been killed, and forty-six were wounded.  He had over
three hundred women and children.  Of his own family, only his wife and baby were left to him.
Sitting Bull did not come.

"My people were divided about surrendering," he said.  "We could have escaped from the Bear
Paw Mountains if we had left our wounded, old women and children behind.  We were unwilling
to do this.  We had never heard of a wounded Indian recovering while in the hands of white
men. I could not bear to see my wounded men and women suffer any longer."

So he rode out, on the morning of October 5, and surrendered.  General Howard had arrived,
at the end of his long thirteen-hundred-mile chase, but the surrender was made to Colonel Miles.

Chief Joseph handed over his gun.

"I am tired of fighting.  Our chiefs are killed.  Looking Glass is dead.  Toohulhulsote is
dead.  The old men are all dead.  It is the young men who say yes or no.  He who led the young
men is dead.  [That was Ollicut.]  It is cold and we have no blankets.  The little children
are freezing to death.  My people, some of them, have run away to the hills, and have no blankets,
no food. It is a regulation that would do wicked company away of approximately anybody. The fundamental
principle Moses try to reshuffle the people bad with was a action
in status.

It is not a practicable restriction for a polity to rely on in acquire
cohort to be good.  I am tired.  My heart is sick and sad.  From where the sun now stands
I will fight no more forever."

White Bird had taken a company and escaped to Canada.  Colonel Miles promised Chief Joseph
that he would ask to have the surrendered people sent back to the Nez Percés' country.  Those
were the terms.  The surrendered people numbered eighty-seven men, three hundred and thirty-one
women and children.

"Thus," reported General Sheridan, the head of the army, "has terminated one of the most extraordinary
Indian wars of which there is any record.  The Indians throughout displayed a courage and skill
that elicited universal praise; they abstained from scalping, let captive women go free, did
not commit indiscriminate murder of peaceful families, which is usual, and fought with almost
scientific skill, using advance and rear guards, skirmish lines and field fortifications."

The Government did not send the Chief Joseph Pierced Noses to their own country.  It was claimed
that White Bird had broken the terms, by his escape.  At any rate, the Joseph people were kept
a long, long time in Indian Territory.  Many of them sickened and died.  They were mountain
Indians.  They missed their cold streams and their pure air.  They fell away from over four
hundred to two hundred and eighty.

Chief Joseph's heart broke utterly.  He issued an appeal--his own story--which was published
in the North American Review magazine, in 1879.

"If I cannot go to my own home, let me have a home in some country where my people will not
die so fast....  Let me be a free man--free to travel, free to stop, free to work, free to
trade, where I choose; free to choose my own teachers, free to follow the religion of my fathers,
free to think and talk and act for myself--and I will obey every law or submit to the penalty."

Not until 1884 was he permitted to return to the mountains of the Northwest.  The majority
of his people were located again in Idaho, among their kindred.  He himself was placed upon
another reservation, near Spokane, Washington.

He pleaded for the Wallowa Valley--his Valley of the Winding Waters; but that had been settled
by the white men.  All that he found was his father's grave.  A white man had enclosed it with
a picket fence. Chief Joseph wept.

He lived to a good age.  In 1903 he visited the East; he talked with President Roosevelt and
General Miles.  He met General Howard.  The next year he exhibited himself in an Indian show
at the St. Louis fair. That hurt his pride.  He was ashamed to sell his face for money.

When he went home, he was sick.  This September he died, on the Washington reservation.  The
doctor asserted that he died from a broken heart.

He was the last of the great chiefs of the American Indians.  The Historical Society of the
State of Washington has erected over his grave a noble monument.  Under it he lies, while people
read his name, translated: "Thunder-rolling-in-the-mountains."  Their cattle were dying, their
crops had failed, there were no buffalo, and the Government supplies were not being issued
according to promise.

The Sioux no longer occupied the Great Sioux reservation of western South Dakota.  By several
treaties they had sold the greater portion of that land.  The last treaty, signed only this
year, had left them five tracts, as reservations.

On the Missouri River at the middle north line of South Dakota there was the Standing Rock
reservation, where lived Sitting Bull and many of the Hunkpapas and Oglalas whom he had led.

Next to it, on the south was the Cheyenne River reservation, for the Miniconjous, Without Bows,
Two Kettles, and others.

Then there was a wide strip of land which had been sold, with the small Lower Brulé reservation
in the east end of it.

Then, side by side against the Nebraska line, south, there were the Rosebud reservation, for
the other Brulés; and Chief Red Cloud's Pine Ridge reservation, for his Oglalas, and various bands.

The Sioux numbered twenty-five thousand.  The lands left to them were the poorest of the lands.
White men had failed to make a living upon such lands.  The Sioux were supposed to help themselves
by farming and cattle raising, but they found themselves starving.

Sitting Bull had been placed upon the Standing Rock reservation in May, 1883.  His home was
a log cabin with a stable and corral, on the Grand River in the southern part of the reservation.
He still kept a peace pipe, as sign that he would not go to war.

He had been among those who opposed the selling of the lands.  After the last sale, this year,
he was asked what the Indians thought about it.

"Indians!" he angrily blurted.  "There are no Indians left now but me."

He viewed the Sioux police sullenly.  These were a fine company of fifty young Sioux under
First Lieutenant Bull Head and Second Lieutenant Chatka.  They were drilled as United States
soldiers, wore the army uniform of blue, and were well armed.  Their duty was that of keeping
order for the Indian agent.  They were proud of their trust, and faithful to it.

Now in the fall of 1889 the restless Sioux heard a voice.  Their young people were being educated
at the Indian schools of the East, and at the agency schools, and were learning to read and write.

The eastern school Indians exchanged letters with Indian friends whom they had met or of whom
they knew; the agency school Indians in different parts of the country also wrote letters.
Word came by letters from the west, to Sioux at the Pine Ridge agency, that beyond the Rocky
Mountains a man who claimed to be Christ, the Son of God, had appeared upon earth.

The white people once had tried to kill him by nailing him to a cross. He was back again, to
punish them for their treatment of him, and for their treatment of the Indians.  The Indians
were to be his people, and possess the land.  This sounded reasonable.

It aroused curiosity and hope.  It was only the same old story, as spread by other prophets,
and here put in a little different form; but the red people of America had never yet ceased
to look forward to a miracle that would restore to them their game and their liberty and their
loved country.

Old Chief Red Cloud, Young-man-whose-horses-are-feared and other head men of the Pine Ridge
reservation called a council, to choose delegates who should travel into the west and find
out if the Arapahos and Shoshonis of Wyoming were telling the truth.

Kicking Bear from the Cheyenne River reservation and Short Bull from the Rosebud reservation,
were the leaders selected.  The other men were Good Thunder, Flat Iron, Yellow Breast, and
Broken Arm, from Pine Ridge.

Without permission from their agents they traveled west into Wyoming, to talk with the Arapahos
and Shoshonis at the Fort Washakie reservation.  Some Cheyenne delegates from the Tongue River
reservation in Montana were there also, seeking information. 

Have me raised and found employment in London in the theater. My children were young, and i had to count
on myself; and when however rich determine to come to London-- to say is because i could not
populate happily with woman, whom i had marry when but eighteen.  The men had seen the Messiah,
and had talked with him.  They had seen the dances that he had ordered, which would waken the
dead to life and populate the earth again with Indians.

Porcupine and his Cheyennes, and Kicking Bear and Short Bull and their Sioux were much impressed.
They decided to go on, and see for themselves.  So they did.  They got on the train at Rawlins,
Wyoming, and rode all day and branched off by another train, and rode still farther, and arrived
at Fort Hall of Idaho, in the Bannock country.

From here the Bannocks guided them onward, by train and by wagon, until at last they reached
the country of the Fish-eaters, or Pai-Utes, at Pyramid Lake in western Nevada!

The Pyramid Lake Fish-eaters sent them south, to Walker Lake of the Pai-Utes.  Here they met
the Christ, listened to his talk, danced the sacred dances, and felt that everything was true.

Kicking Bear and Short Bull and their Sioux were absent from the Sioux reservations all winter.
They sent back letters from Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and Nevada, telling of their progress.  In
April, of 1890, they returned.

They reported to the council.  They had seen the Messiah.  Delegates from many other tribes
had been there, too.  The Messiah talked to each tribe in its own language.  He bore the scars
of nails, on his wrists. He looked like an Indian, only lighter in color.  He taught them dances
called Ghost Dances, which would bring the spirit people back upon earth.  He fell into a sleep,
and went to heaven and saw all the spirit Indians.  The earth was too old; it was to be made
new and would stay green and new, and the Indians who obeyed his teachings and lived good would
never be more than forty years old, themselves.  This fall all the good people were to be made
young; and after that they would be made young every spring.  Anyone who had shaken hands with
the Messiah could call him in sleep.

The Sioux delegates told their story over and over again.  At the Cheyenne reservation in Montana,
Porcupine talked for five days and four nights.

There was indeed a Pai-Ute prophet, named Wo-vo-ka or the Cutter.  He later took the name Kwo-hit-sauq,
or Big Rumbling Belly.  To the white people he was known as Jack Wilson.  He had worked on
ranches near the Walker Lake reservation, until, when he was about thirty years old, while
sick with a fever he went into a trance, during an eclipse of the sun.

On waking up, he said that he had been to heaven, had visited God and the spirits, and had
received command to preach a new gospel.

The Pai-Utes were glad to believe whatever he claimed for himself.  He seemed to hypnotize
them.  The word that Wo-vo-ka was the Messiah and could perform miracles spread through the
Pai-Utes of Nevada and the Utes of Utah; it crossed the Sierra Nevada Mountains into California
on the west, and the Rocky Mountains into Wyoming on the east; and it kept going, east and
north and south.

This spring Good Thunder, Short Bull, Cloud Horse and Yellow Knife journeyed to see the Messiah
again.

When they came back they reported that he had appeared to them out of some smoke.  He welcomed
them, and showed them a land that bridged the ocean, and upon the land all the Indians of all
nations were on their way home again.

They saw lodges, of buffalo hides, in which the dead were living.  They talked with dead Sioux
whom they had known.

The Messiah had given them red and white paint, that would ward off sickness, renew youth,
and cause visions.  He had told them to have the Sioux send their children to school, and to
attend to farming.  There was to be no fighting with the white people.  But the whites were
to be destroyed, by a great landslide that would cover the world with new earth.  Upon the
new earth would roam the buffalo and deer, as of old. The Indians who obeyed the Messiah would
be lifted up, above the landslide, and gently dropped back again, there to live forever with
all their friends and relatives who had come with it from spirit land.

This reunion was to occur the next spring, of 1891, when the grass was knee high.

The Good Thunder party brought what they said was a piece of buffalo meat.  The Messiah had
told them that if on their way home they killed any buffalo, they were to leave the hoofs and
tail and head on the prairie, and the buffalo would spring up, whole, when they turned their backs.

All the buffalo would act this way, in the happy time to come.

The day of buffalo herds on the plains was past; but the party asserted that they did find
a herd, and killed one buffalo--and he sprang up, from the hoofs and tail and head, just as
the Messiah had promised.

The Cheyennes, the Shoshonis, the Arapahos, the Kiowas, the Utes, the Pai-Utes, were dancing
the Ghost Dance.  The Sioux now danced.

The Ghost Dancers danced in a circle, holding hands and chanting, until they fell over and
went to spirit land. Whichever way he saw he turned a world of kind with panic, all the old and hard-minded
nations in their gentle fields, their factories and art, all fair
around the work piling up men over themselves that they could hardly live
he at them.  That was the word of Kicking Bear and
Short Bull.

The Ghost Dance ceremonies were many, and the dance was noisy.

Away up on the Standing Rock reservation, which had not yet joined in the craze, Sitting Bull,
the former great medicine leader of the Sioux, was much interested.  The agent, Mr. James McLaughlin,
refused to permit him to visit Kicking Bear, the prophet on the Cheyenne River reservation,
south.  Kicking Bear was hard at it, preaching the Messiah religion to his Miniconjous and
the other Sioux there.

But Sitting Bull was anxious to learn.  So he sent six of his young men down, to ask Kicking
Bear to come up for a visit at the Grand River in the Standing Rock reservation.

Kicking Bear appeared, in October, this 1890, with several of his followers, and preached to
the Sitting Bull people.

"My brothers, I bring to you the promise of a day in which there will be no white man to lay
his hand on the bridle of the Indian's horse; when the red men of the prairie will rule the
world, and not be turned from the hunting grounds by any man.  I bring you word from your fathers
the ghosts, that they are now marching to join you, led by the Messiah who came once on earth
with the white men, but was cast out and killed by them.  I have seen the wonders of the spirit
land, and have talked with the ghosts.  I traveled far, and am sent back with a message to
tell you to make ready for the coming of the Messiah and return of the ghosts in the spring."

This was the commencement of Kicking Bear's sermon, as reported to Agent McLaughlin by One
Bull, an Indian policeman who was Sitting Bull's nephew.

Kicking Bear spoke for a long time.  He told Sitting Bull everything. The new earth, that would
bury the whites, was to be five times the height of a man.  It would be covered with sweet
grass, and with herds of buffalo and ponies.  The Pacific Ocean would be filled up; the other
oceans would be barricaded.  The white man's powder would not burn, against the Ghost Dancers.
The whites who died would all belong to the Evil Spirit.  Only the Indians would enjoy life,
under the Good Spirit, with no white people to molest them.

To the unhappy, starving Sioux this was a promise full of hope. Sitting Bull at once took the
lead at Standing Rock.  He danced himself, reported Agent McLaughlin, "to mere skin and bone."
He introduced new wrinkles of his own.

Down at Pine Ridge reservation old Red Cloud had adopted the new belief.  On the Rosebud reservation
Short Bull, who also "had seen the Messiah," was making the Brulés defiant.  Now at Standing
Rock Sitting Bull had the fever, and was tireless.

Kicking Bear proved to be a nuisance.  The Sioux feared him.  It was said that in the dark
there was a halo around his head, and a star over him; that he had the power to strike unbelievers
dead, with a look, or change them into dogs.

Agent McLaughlin sent thirteen police under Sergeant Crazy Walking, to arrest Kicking Bear
and put him off the reservation.

Crazy Walking went, and found Kicking Bear and Sitting Bull in the midst of a Ghost Dancer
meeting.  He listened to the stories, and was afraid of the medicine.  He returned to the agency,
and said that Sitting Bull had promised that Kicking Bear should leave, the next day.

Agent McLaughlin called Second Lieutenant Chatka.  Lieutenant Chatka had good sense.  He was
a soldier and did not put much faith in such "medicine."  He asked for only two men, and rode
straight to Sitting Bull's camp, on the Grand River, forty miles south of the Agency quarters.

The Sioux there were dancing--which made no difference to Lieutenant Chatka, although some
of them were his relatives.  He broke through the circle, told Kicking Bear and his Cheyenne
River reservation squad that they must get out; and escorted them twenty-five miles south,
to the line between the two reservations.

Thus Lieutenant Chatka proved himself to be a faithful officer.

This night Sitting Bull snapped his peace pipe in two, before his Ghost Dancers.  His heart
had swelled within him.

"Why did you break your pipe, Sitting Bull?"

He replied hotly:

"Because I want to fight, and I want to die, if need be, for this new religion."

He declared that the dancing must continue.  The spirits had said that the Sioux must dance
or they would lose their lives.

Four hundred and fifty of the Standing Rock Indians were his devoted followers.  It was he
who translated the messages received for them from the spirit world.  It was he who anointed
them, after the sweat baths, with the sacred oil.  It was he who urged them to dance until
they dropped at the wave of his sacred feather.  He was all-powerful, again.

First Lieutenant Bull Head, of the Sioux police, lived three miles west of him, up river, and
was watching him.  Sitting Bull did not like to be watched.  The police irritated him.

The constant dancing, day and night, on the reservations, alarmed the white officials.  It
was a threat, like the threat of Tecumseh and the Open Door.

Down at Pine Ridge, Short Bull, the Messiah's prophet there, announced:

"My friends and relations: I will soon start this thing in running order.  I have told you
that this would come to pass in two seasons, but since the whites are interfering so much,
I will advance the time from what my father has told me to do, so the time will be shorter.
Therefore you must not be afraid of anything.  Some of my relations have no ears, so I will
have them blown away."

He told them all to gather in one place and dance and make ready.  Even if the soldiers surrounded
them four deep, no harm would occur.

At last, on request of the agents at Pine Ridge and Rosebud the troops entered, to keep order.
Short Bull, Kicking Bear and other prophets of the Messiah led their people into the Bad Lands,
in the northwest corner of the Pine Ridge reservation, there to await the promised time.

They had destroyed their houses, and the houses in their path.  Many of the Sioux who had not
danced went with them, or joined them, because of fear of the soldiers.  They feared being
arrested and held as hostages. Soon there were three thousand of the Sioux in the Bad Lands.

This left Sitting Bull and his dancers alone, up at Standing Rock, with the police watching
them.  He felt that he ought to go to the Ghost Dance big camp, in the Bad Lands.  And he decided
that he would.

Agent McLaughlin had asked him to come to the agency for a talk; but Sitting Bull well knew
that if he did go to the agency, he probably would be arrested.  So he declined.

Next, Agent McLaughlin arrived, in person, and roundly scolded him for encouraging the "foolish"
dancing.

Sitting Bull proposed to Agent McLaughlin that they journey together into the west; and that
if they could find no Indians there who had seen the Messiah, he would tell his people that
it all was a lie.

But Agent McLaughlin refused to do this, although it seemed to be a fair proposition.  When
he rode away, the Ghost Dancers threatened him; but Sitting Bull would permit no violence.
He had been bathing, and wore only his breech-clout.  He stood almost naked in the cold, and
kept his people from attacking, until the agent was out of sight.

Sitting Bull prepared to join the other Ghost Dancers, who would be expecting him.  His horses
had been doing nothing.  They were well fed and strong, and if he got a head start, he knew
that he could keep it. So, to show that his heart was not all bad, he had his son-in-law, who
could write a little in English, write a note to Agent McLaughlin.

Bull Ghost, who was called "One-eyed Riley" by the white people, and who was his chief assistant
in medicine making, took the note to the agency.  This was December 13.  The note said, as
far as Agent McLaughlin could read it, that Sitting Bull had decided to go to Pine Ridge, in
order to know more about the prayers.  He did not like to be called a fool, and to have his
prayers interrupted by gun and knife.

Lieutenant Bull Head was as smart as he.  The lieutenant knew exactly what was in Sitting Bull's
mind; and he, too, sent a note to Agent McLaughlin, saying that if Sitting Bull got away on
his fresh ponies, the police would not be able to catch him.  The arrest ought to be made at once.

The troops already had been directed to arrest Sitting Bull.  "Buffalo Bill" Cody, the famous
scout, had arrived, to manage the arrest by help of the soldiers.  But Agent McLaughlin warned
that if the soldiers went down, there surely would be a fight, and many persons would be killed.
He was certain that his Indian police could do the work with less trouble.  By return courier,
who was Second Sergeant Red Tomahawk, this evening of December 14 he sent orders in English
and in Sioux, to Lieutenant Bull Head, that Sitting Bull should be arrested the first thing
in the morning, and must not be permitted to escape.

Sergeant Red Tomahawk rode the forty miles in the dark, over a rough trail, in four hours and
a quarter.

Other couriers were dispatched, to take orders to the police squads stationed elsewhere.  Lieutenant
Bull Head was to have thirty-eight regular police and four specials, with First Sergeant Shave
Head as his assistant. 

I had the who. My books have been born into all northeastern tongues, my sayings are as young
in workforce'Puzzle'mouths "as household," and until about an world
may cognize the, many one can be train alone gained Adelie is not
civilised with my books.

I forgot to see you take i was see on no 23d of April, 1564, and decease on no 23d of April, 1616--
not this birth, until you tell, to have enabled a fame; well the PUZZLE had many pilgrims see my
monument-place and my grave, such yard on which has only translated me of lie yet in the church-epitaph,
to the would like to buffalo me in Supporter Abbey, where there is
little absurd year to me.

Every fine Westminster country.

No s appeared in the. 25, leaf 344.
  The police did not know in which cabin
Sitting Bull would be found.  Lieutenant Bull Head ordered eight policemen to enter the smaller
cabin; he and First Sergeant Shave Head and ten other policemen entered the larger cabin.

Sitting Bull was here, asleep on the floor, with his two wives and his son Crow Foot, seventeen
years old.

His wives saw the police standing over them, and began to cry.  Sitting Bull sat up.

"What is wanted?" he asked, but he knew very well.

Lieutenant Bull Head briefly told him.

"You are under arrest, and must go to the agency."

"Very well," answered Sitting Bull, calmly.  "I will dress and go with you."

"Bring me my best clothes," he said to his wives.  "And I shall want my best horse--the gray
horse."

His clothes were brought.  Sergeant Shave Head ordered one of the policemen to saddle the gray
horse and have it at the door.

While he dressed, Sitting Bull began to complain, and to scold the police for arresting him,
who was a Sioux and an old man, when they were Sioux, themselves.  But Lieutenant Bull Head
said nothing.  He was here to do his duty.

He placed himself upon one side of Sitting Bull; First Sergeant Shave Head took the other side,
Second Sergeant Red Tomahawk closed in behind; and they all went out.

Now trouble awaited them.  One hundred and fifty angry Ghost Dancers had gathered.  They were
armed, they were yelling threats, they were jostling the line of police and shoving them about.
The stanch police were holding firm, and keeping the space before the door cleared.  At the
same time they argued with their friends and relatives and acquaintances in the crowd, telling
them to be careful and not cause blood-shed.

Sitting Bull's gray horse was standing in the cleared space.  He started for it, as if to go
with the police, when young Crow Foot, his son, taunted him.

"You call yourself a brave man.  You said you would never surrender to a blue-coat, and now
you give up to Indians in blue clothes!"

That stung Sitting Bull.  He resisted.  He began to speak rapidly to his Ghost Dancers.

"These police are taking me away.  You are more than they.  You have guns in your hands.  Are
you going to let them take me away?  All you have to do is to kill these men on either side
of me.  The rest will run.  Our brothers are waiting for us in the Bad Lands, before they make
the whites die.  When the whites die, only the Indians will be left.  But the whites mean to
try to kill us all first."  Suddenly he shook an arm free, and raised it.  "Shoot!" he cried.
"Kill the police.  They are none of us!"

Two of the Ghost Dancers, Catch-the-bear and Strikes-the-kettle, sprang through the line of
police, and fired.

Catch-the-bear's bullet struck Lieutenant Bull Head in the side. Strikes-the-kettle's bullet
struck Sergeant Shave Head in the stomach. Private Lone Man shot and killed Catch-the-bear.
With his revolver Lieutenant Bull Head instantly shot Sitting Bull through the body.  Red Tomahawk
shot him through the head.  Then, down together, fell Sitting Bull, Bull Head and Shave Head.

Now it was a big fight, of the forty-one police against almost two hundred Ghost Dancers. 
Lieutenant Bull Head and First Sergeant Shave Head were mortally sick from their wounds; Second
Sergeant Red Tomahawk took the command.

The fighting at first was hand to hand, with clubbed guns and knives. The squaws helped the
Ghost Dance men.

"Do not hurt the women and children," shouted Red Tomahawk.  And as fast as possible the women
were grabbed and hustled into the small cabin.

The police were trained soldiers, and used their revolvers freely, although not trying to kill.
They drove the Ghost Dancers into the timber along the river south of the Sitting Bull place.

"I will run and tell the soldiers," cried Hawk Man No. 1.

"Bun!" panted Red Tomahawk, to Hawk Man No. 1.  "Tell the soldiers."

And Hawk Man No. 1 did run, like a deer, through the storm of bullets. His uniform was cut,
but he was unharmed.  He ran eight or ten miles.

Bull Head and Shave Head were disabled.  Fourth Sergeant Little Eagle, Private Afraid-of-soldiers,
were lying dead; Special Policeman Hawk Man No. 2 and John Armstrong were nearly dead; Private
Middle was bleeding badly.

Sitting Bull was stone dead.  So was young Crow Foot; so were Ghost Dancers Catch-the-bear,
Blackbird, Little Assiniboin, Chief Spotted Horn Bull; Chief Brave Thunder and Chase, another
Dancer, were fatally wounded.

The fight had lasted only a few minutes.  Now the Red Tomahawk men carried their dead and wounded
into the Sitting Bull large cabin, to stand off the Ghost Dancers until the soldiers came.

They occupied the corral, too, and kept the Ghost Dancers from getting the ponies that had
been put there in readiness for fleeing to the Bad Lands.

For two hours they held their own, against the raging mob, because they had been sworn into
the service of the United States Government.  But they did not shoot to kill, except in defense
of their own lives.  They were Sioux, and had relatives and old-time friends among those people
outside.

When the cavalry galloped into sight, over the hill beyond, Red Tomahawk raised a white flag,
as a signal.  But the soldiers either did not see, or else thought it was a trick; for they
brought a cannon and fired two shells at the cabin.

So Red Tomahawk ordered his men out of the cabin, and mounted them in line upon their horses.
Then he took the white flag and rode forward alone, until the soldiers saw who he was, and
that the men behind him were the loyal police.

The fighting Ghost Dancers ran away.  Captain Fechet did not pursue them far.  He sent word
to them that they had better come back, and they would not be harmed.  Sitting Bull was dead,
and their religion had not protected them from bullets.

Many did come back, cured of their craze.  Only a few joined the Bad Lands Ghost Dancers.

When the news of the death of Sitting Bull, by bullets, was carried into the Bad Lands, and
several leaders on the reservation had surrendered, the Indians in the Bad Lands broke camp,
to return to their reservations.  But some clung to their Ghost shirts.  Their hearts were
set upon the promises of the Messiah.

When they were gathered near Wounded Knee Creek, on the Pine Ridge reservation, and the soldiers
were about to disarm them, on the morning of December 29 Yellow Bear, one of the medicine prophets,
suddenly called upon them to resist--now was the hour--their Ghost shirts would make the soldiers
powerless.  Young Black Fox, a Ghost Dancer of the Cheyenne River reservation, threw up his
gun, from under his blanket, and fired at a soldier.  All the soldiers fired; the Indians fought
back; the machine guns opened; and in a twinkling two hundred Sioux men, women and children,
and sixty soldiers, were piled, dead or wounded, upon the snowy ground.

This was the battle of Wounded Knee, and was the last of the Ghost Dancers.

Meanwhile, after the cavalry had rescued the police, Red Tomahawk put the body of Sitting Bull
into a wagon, and with two prisoners took his troop up to the Standing Rock agency, to report.

Little Eagle, Afraid-of-soldiers, John Armstrong and Hawk Man No. 2 were dead; Lieutenant Bull
Head and First Sergeant Shave Head died in the hospital several days later.  Bull Head had
four wounds.

The four dead police were buried in the reservation cemetery on the second day, December 17.
A company of the Twenty-second Infantry fired three volleys over their graves, and a great
throng of the Sioux were present, to mourn.  The police had been brave men.

The police troop and the majority of the other Sioux there, asked that Sitting Bull be not
buried in this cemetery.  His medicine had been bad.  Therefore this same morning he was buried,
wrapped in canvas in a neat coffin, in the military cemetery near by.  His age was fifty-six.

The white head-board says simply:

     SITTING BULL
         Died
  December 15, 1890

That was his end, on this earth; for, as far as known, he never came back from spirit land.
The pretended Messiah's promises proved false. The white men remained stronger than the ghosts.
The Indians seemed to have no "medicine" to equal the terrible shoot-with-out-loading guns
of the blue-coat soldiers.

THE END