But to go back a little. The seventh day after the birth of the baby, a delegation of several
squaws, wives of chiefs, came to pay me a formal visit. They brought me some finely woven baskets,
and a beautiful pappoose-basket or cradle, such as they carry their own babies in. This was
made of the lightest wood, and covered with the finest skin of fawn, tanned with birch bark
by their own hands, and embroidered in blue beads; it was their best work. I admired it, and
tried to express to them my thanks. These squaws took my baby (he was lying beside me on the
bed), then, cooing and chuckling, they looked about the room, until they found a small pillow,
which they laid into the basket-cradle, then put my baby in, drew the flaps together, and laced
him into it; then stood it up, and laid it down, and laughed again in their gentle manner,
and finally soothed him to sleep. I was quite touched by the friendliness of it all. They laid
the cradle on the table and departed. Jack went out to bring Major Worth in, to see the pretty
sight, and as the two entered the room, Jack pointed to the pappoose-basket.

Major Worth tip-toed forward, and gazed into the cradle; he did not speak for some time; then,
in his inimitable way, and half under his breath, he said, slowly, "Well, I'll be d--d!" This
was all, but when he turned towards the bedside, and came and shook my hand, his eyes shone
with a gentle and tender look.

And so was the new recruit introduced to the Captain of Company K.

And now there must be a bath-tub for the baby. The cutler rummaged his entire place, to find
something that might do. At last, he sent me a freshly scoured tub, that looked as if it might,
at no very remote date, have contained salt mackerel marked "A One." So then, every morning
at nine o'clock, our little half-window was black with the heads of the curious squaws and
bucks, trying to get a glimpse of the fair baby's bath. A wonderful performance, it appeared
to them.

Once a week this room, which was now a nursery combined with bedroom and living-room, was overhauled
by the stalwart Bowen. The baby was put to sleep and laced securely into the pappoose-basket.
He was then carried into the kitchen, laid on the dresser, and I sat by with a book or needle-work
watching him, until Bowen had finished the room. On one of these occasions, I noticed a ledger
lying upon one of the shelves. I looked into it, and imagine my astonishment, when I read:
"Aunt Hepsey's Muffins," "Sarah's Indian Pudding," and on another page, "Hasty's Lemon Tarts,"
"Aunt Susan's Method of Cooking a Leg of Mutton," and "Josie Well's Pressed Calf Liver." Here
were my own, my very own family recipes, copied into Bowen's ledger, in large illiterate characters;
and on the fly-leaf, "Charles Bowen's Receipt Book." I burst into a good hearty laugh, almost
the first one I had enjoyed since I arrived at Camp Apache.

The long-expected promotion to a first lieutenancy came at about this time. Jack was assigned
to a company which was stationed at Camp MacDowell, but his departure for the new post was
delayed until the spring should be more advanced and I should be able to undertake the long,
rough trip with our young child.

The second week in April, my baby just nine weeks old, we began to pack up. I had gained a
little in experience, to be sure, but I had lost my health and strength. I knew nothing of
the care of a young infant, and depended entirely upon the advice of the Post Surgeon, who
happened at that time to be a young man, much better versed in the sawing off of soldiers'
legs than in the treatment of young mothers and babies.

The packing up was done under difficulties, and with much help from our faithful Bowen. It
was arranged for Mrs. Bailey, who was to spend the summer with her parents at Fort Whipple,
to make the trip at the same time, as our road to Camp MacDowell took us through Fort Whipple.
There were provided two ambulances with six mules each, two baggage-wagons, an escort of six
calvarymen fully armed, and a guide. Lieutenant Bailey was to accompany his wife on the trip.

I was genuinely sorry to part with Major Worth, but in the excitement and fatigue of breaking
up our home, I had little time to think of my feelings. My young child absorbed all my time.
Alas! for the ignorance of young women, thrust by circumstances into such a situation! I had
miscalculated my strength, for I had never known illness in my life, and there was no one to
tell me any better. I reckoned upon my superbly healthy nature to bring me through. In fact,
I did not think much about it; I simply got ready and went, as soldiers do.

I heard them say that we were not to cross the Mogollon range, but were to go to the north
of it, ford the Colorado Chiquito at Sunset Crossing, and so on to Camp Verde and Whipple Barracks
by the Stoneman's Lake road. It sounded poetic and pretty. Colorado Chiquito, Sunset Crossing,
and Stoneman's Lake road! I thought to myself, they were prettier than any of the names I had
heard in Arizona.

CHAPTER XIV. A MEMORABLE JOURNEY

How broken plunged the steep descent! How barren! Desolate and rent By earthquake shock, the
land lay dead, Like some proud king in old-time slain. An ugly skeleton, it gleamed In burning
sands. The fiery rain Of fierce volcanoes here had sown Its ashes. Burnt and black and seamed
With thunder-strokes and strewn With cinders. Yea, so overthrown, That wilder men than we had
said, On seeing this, with gathered breath, "We come on the confines of death!"--JOAQUIN MILLER.

Six good cavalrymen galloped along by our side, on the morning of April 24th, 1875, as with
two ambulances, two army wagons, and a Mexican guide, we drove out of Camp Apache at a brisk trot.

The drivers were all armed, and spare rifles hung inside the ambulances. I wore a small derringer,
with a narrow belt filled with cartridges. An incongruous sight, methinks now, it must have
been. A young mother, pale and thin, a child of scarce three months in her arms, and a pistol
belt around her waist!

I scarcely looked back at Camp Apache. We had a long day's march before us, and we looked ahead.
Towards night we made camp at Cooley's ranch, and slept inside, on the floor. Cooley was interpreter
and scout, and although he was a white man, he had married a young Indian girl, the daughter
of one of the chiefs and was known as a squaw man. There seemed to be two Indian girls at his
ranch; they were both tidy and good-looking, and they prepared us a most appetizing supper.

The ranch had spaces for windows, covered with thin unbleached muslin (or manta, as it is always
called out there), glass windows being then too great a luxury in that remote place. There
were some partitions inside the ranch, but no doors; and, of course, no floors except adobe.
Several half-breed children, nearly naked, stood and gazed at us as we prepared for rest. This
was interesting and picturesque from many standpoints perhaps, but it did not tend to make
me sleepy. I lay gazing into the fire which was smouldering in the corner, and finally I said,
in a whisper, "Jack, which girl do you think is Cooley's wife?"

"I don't know," answered this cross and tired man; and then added, "both of 'em, I guess."

Now this was too awful, but I knew he did not intend for me to ask any more questions. I had
a difficult time, in those days, reconciling what I saw with what I had been taught was right,
and I had to sort over my ideas and deep-rooted prejudices a good many times.

The two pretty squaws prepared a nice breakfast for us, and we set out, quite refreshed, to
travel over the malapais (as the great lava-beds in that part of the country are called). There
was no trace of a road. A few hours of this grinding and crunching over crushed lava wearied
us all, and the animals found it hard pulling, although the country was level.

We crossed Silver Creek without difficulty, and arrived at Stinson's ranch, after traveling
twenty-five miles, mostly malapais. Do not for a moment think of these ranches as farms. Some
of them were deserted sheep ranches, and had only adobe walls standing in ruins. But the camp
must have a name, and on the old maps of Arizona these names are still to be found. Of course,
on the new railroad maps, they are absent. They were generally near a spring or a creek, consequently
were chosen as camps.

Mrs. Bailey had her year-old boy, Howard, with her. We began to experience the utmost inconvenience
from the lack of warm water and other things so necessary to the health and comfort of children.
But we tried to make light of it all, and the two Lieutenants tried, in a man's way, to help
us out. We declared we must have some clean towels for the next day, so we tried to rinse out,
in the cold, hard water of the well, those which we had with us, and, as it was now nightfall
and there was no fire inside this apparently deserted ranch, the two Lieutenants stood and
held the wet towels before the camp-fire until they were dry.

Mrs. Bailey and I, too tired to move, sat and watched them and had each our own thoughts. She
was an army girl and perhaps had seen such things before, but it was a situation that did not
seem quite in keeping with my ideas of the fitness of things in general, and with the uniform
in particular. The uniform, associated in my mind with brilliant functions, guard-mount, parades
and full-dress weddings--the uniform, in fact, that I adored. As I sat, gazing at them, they
both turned around, and, realizing how almost ludicrous they looked, they began to laugh. Whereupon
we all four laughed and Jack said: "Nice work for United States officers! hey, Bailey?"

"It might be worse," sighed the handsome, blond-haired Bailey.

Thirty miles the next day, over a good road, brought us to Walker's ranch, on the site of old
Camp Supply. This ranch was habitable in a way, and the owner said we might use the bedrooms;
but the wild-cats about the place were so numerous and so troublesome in the night, that we
could not sleep. I have mentioned the absence of windows in these ranches; we were now to experience
the great inconvenience resulting therefrom, for the low open spaces furnished great opportunity
for the cats. In at one opening, and out at another they flew, first across the Bailey's bed,
then over ours. The dogs caught the spirit of the chase, and added their noise to that of the
cats. Both babies began to cry, and then up got Bailey and threw his heavy campaign boots at
the cats, with some fitting remarks. A momentary silence reigned, and we tried again to sleep.
Back came the cats, and then came Jack's turn with boots and travelling satchels. It was all
of no avail, and we resigned ourselves. Cruelly tired, here we were, we two women, compelled
to sit on hard boxes or the edge of a bed, to quiet our poor babies, all through that night,
at that old sheep-ranch. Like the wretched emigrant, differing only from her inasmuch as she,
never having known comfort perhaps, cannot realize her misery.

The two Lieutenants slipped on their blouses, and sat looking helplessly at us, waging war
on the cats at intervals. And so the dawn found us, our nerves at a tension, and our strength
gone--a poor preparation for the trying day which was to follow.

We were able to buy a couple of sheep there, to take with us for supplies, and some antelope
meat. We could not indulge, in foolish scruples, but I tried not to look when they tied the
live sheep and threw them into one of the wagons.

Quite early in the day, we met a man who said he had been fired upon by some Indians at Sanford's
Pass. We thought perhaps he had been scared by some stray shot, and we did not pay much attention
to his story.

Soon after, however, we passed a sort of old adobe ruin, out of which crept two bare-headed
Mexicans, so badly frightened that their dark faces were pallid; their hair seemed standing
on end, and they looked stark mad with fear. They talked wildly to the guide, and gesticulated,
pointing in the direction of the Pass. They had been fired at, and their ponies taken by some
roving Apaches. They had been in hiding for over a day, and were hungry and miserable. We gave
them food and drink. They implored us, by the Holy Virgin, not to go through the Pass.

What was to be done? The officers took counsel; the men looked to their arms. It was decided
to go through. Jack examined his revolver, and saw that my pistol was loaded. I was instructed
minutely what to do, in case we were attacked.

For miles we strained our eyes, looking in the direction whence these men had come.

At last, in mid-afternoon, we approached the Pass, a narrow defile winding down between high
hills from this table-land to the plain below. To say that we feared an ambush, would not perhaps
convey a very clear idea of how I felt on entering the Pass.

There was not a word spoken. I obeyed orders, and lay down in the bottom of the ambulance;
I took my derringer out of the holster and cocked it. I looked at my little boy lying helpless
there beside me, and at his delicate temples, lined with thin blue veins, and wondered if I
could follow out the instructions I had received: for Jack had said, after the decision was
made, to go through the Pass, "Now, Mattie, I don't think for a minute that there are any Injuns
in that Pass, and you must not be afraid. We have got to go through it any way; but"--he hesitated,--"we
may be mistaken; there may be a few of them in there, and they'll have a mighty good chance
to get in a shot or two. And now listen: if I'm hit, you'll know what to do. You have your
derringer; and when you see that there is no help for it, if they get away with the whole outfit,
why, there's only one thing to be done. Don't let them get the baby, for they will carry you
both off and--well, you know the squaws are much more cruel than the bucks. Don't let them
get either of you alive. Now"--to the driver--"go on."

Jack was a man of few words, and seldom spoke much in times like that.

So I lay very quiet in the bottom of the ambulance. I realized that we were in great danger.
My thoughts flew back to the East, and I saw, as in a flash, my father and mother, sisters
and brother; I think I tried to say a short prayer for them, and that they might never know
the worst. I fixed my eyes upon my husband's face. There he sat, rifle in hand, his features
motionless, his eyes keenly watching out from one side of the ambulance, while a stalwart cavalry-man,
carbine in hand, watched the other side of the narrow defile. The minutes seemed like hours.

The driver kept his animals steady, and we rattled along.

At last, as I perceived the steep slope of the road, I looked out, and saw that the Pass was
widening out, and we must be nearing the end of it. "Keep still," said Jack, without moving
a feature. My heart seemed then to stop beating, and I dared not move again, until I heard
him say, "Thank God, we're out of it! Get up, Mattie! See the river yonder? We'll cross that
to-night, and then we'll be out of their God d----d country!"

This was Jack's way of working off his excitement, and I did not mind it. I knew he was not
afraid of Apaches for himself, but for his wife and child. And if I had been a man, I should
have said just as much and perhaps more.

We were now down in a flat country, and low alkali plains lay between us and the river. My
nerves gradually recovered from the tension in which they had been held; the driver stopped
his team for a moment, the other ambulance drove up alongside of us, and Ella Bailey and I
looked at each other; we did not talk any, but I believe we cried just a little. Then Mr. Bailey
and Jack (thinking we were giving way, I suppose) pulled out their big flasks, and we had to
take a cup of good whiskey, weakened up with a little water from our canteens, which had been
filled at Walker's ranch in the morning. Great Heavens! I thought, was it this morning that
we left Walker's ranch, or was it a year ago? So much had I lived through in a few hours.

CHAPTER XV. FORDING THE LITTLE COLORADO

At a bend in the road the Mexican guide galloped up near the ambulance, and pointing off to
the westward with a graceful gesture, said: "Colorado Chiquito! Colorado Chiquito!" And, sure
enough, there in the afternoon sun lay the narrow winding river, its surface as smooth as glass,
and its banks as if covered with snow.

We drove straight for the ford, known as Sunset Crossing. The guide was sure he knew the place.
But the river was high, and I could not see how anybody could cross it without a boat. The
Mexican rode his pony in once or twice; shook his head, and said in Spanish, "there was much
quicksand. The old ford had changed much since he saw it." He galloped excitedly to and fro,
along the bank of the river, always returning to the same place, and declaring "it was the
ford; there was no other; he knew it well."

But the wagons not having yet arrived, it was decided not to attempt crossing until morning,
when we could get a fresh start.

The sun was gradually sinking in the west, but the heat down in that alkali river-bottom even
at that early season of the year was most uncomfortable. I was worn out with fright and fatigue;
my poor child cried piteously and incessantly. Nothing was of any avail to soothe him. After
the tents were pitched and the camp-fires made, some warm water was brought, and I tried to
wash away some of the dust from him, but the alkali water only irritated his delicate skin,
and his head, where it had lain on my arm, was inflamed by the constant rubbing. It began to
break out in ugly blisters; I was in despair. We were about as wretchedly off as two human
beings could be, and live, it seemed to me. The disappointment at not getting across the river,
combined with the fear that the Indians were still in the neighborhood, added to my nervousness
and produced an exhaustion which, under other circumstances, would have meant collapse.

The mournful and demoniacal cries of the coyotes filled the night; they seemed to come close
to the tent, and their number seemed to be legion. I lay with eyes wide open, watching for
the day to come, and resolving each minute that if I ever escaped alive from that lonely river-bottom
with its burning alkali, and its millions of howling coyotes, I would never, never risk being
placed in such a situation again.

At dawn everybody got up and dressed. I looked in my small hand-mirror, and it seemed to me
my hair had turned a greyish color, and while it was not exactly white, the warm chestnut tinge
never came back into it, after that day and night of terror. My eyes looked back at me large
and hollow from the small glass, and I was in that state when it is easy to imagine the look
of Death in one's own face. I think sometimes it comes, after we have thought ourselves near
the borders. And I surely had been close to them the day before.

*****

If perchance any of my readers have followed this narrative so far, and there be among them
possibly any men, young or old, I would say to such ones: "Desist!" For what I am going to
tell about in this chapter, and possibly another, concerns nobody but women, and my story will
now, for awhile, not concern itself with the Eighth Foot, nor the army, nor the War Department,
nor the Interior Department, nor the strategic value of Sunset Crossing, which may now be a
railroad station, for all I know. It is simply a story of my journey from the far bank of the
Little Colorado to Fort Whipple, and then on, by a change of orders, over mountains and valleys,
cactus plains and desert lands, to the banks of the Great Colorado.

My attitude towards the places I travelled through was naturally influenced by the fact that
I had a young baby in my arms the entire way, and that I was not able to endure hardship at
that time. For usually, be it remembered, at that period of a child's life, both mother and
infant are not out of the hands of the doctor and trained nurse, to say nothing of the assistance
so gladly rendered by those near and dear.

The morning of the 28th of April dawned shortly after midnight, as mornings in Arizona generally
do at that season, and after a hasty camp breakfast, and a good deal of reconnoitering on the
part of the officers, who did not seem to be exactly satisfied about the Mexican's knowledge
of the ford, they told him to push his pony in, and cross if he could.

He managed to pick his way across and back, after a good deal of floundering, and we decided
to try the ford. First they hitched up ten mules to one of the heavily loaded baggage-wagons,
the teamster cracked his whip, and in they went. But the quicksand frightened the leaders,
and they lost their courage. Now when a mule loses courage, in the water, he puts his head
down and is done for. The leaders disappeared entirely, then the next two and finally the whole
ten of them were gone, irrevocably, as I thought. But like a flash, the officers shouted: "Cut
away those mules! Jump in there!" and amid other expletives the men plunged in, and feeling
around under the water cut the poor animals loose and they began to crawl out on the other
bank. I drew a long breath, for I thought the ten mules were drowned.

The guide picked his way over again to the other side and caught them up, and then I began
to wonder how on earth we should ever get across.

There lay the heavy army wagon, deep mired in the middle of the stream, and what did I see?
Our army chests, floating away down the river. I cried out: "Oh! do save our chests!" "They're
all right, we'll get them presently," said Jack. It seemed a long time to me, before the soldiers
could get them to the bank, which they did, with the aid of stout ropes. All our worldly goods
were in those chests, and I knew they were soaked wet and probably ruined; but, after all,
what did it matter, in the face of the serious problem which confronted us?

In the meantime, some of the men had floated the other boxes and trunks out of the wagon back
to the shore, and were busy taking the huge vehicle apart. Any one who knows the size of an
army wagon will realize that this was hard work, especially as the wagon was mired, and nearly
submerged. But the men worked desperately, and at last succeeded in getting every part of it
back onto the dry land.

Somebody stirred up the camp-fire and put the kettle on, and Mrs. Bailey and I mixed up a smoking
strong hot toddy for those brave fellows, who were by this time well exhausted. Then they set
to work to make a boat, by drawing a large canvas under the body of the wagon, and fastening
it securely. For this Lieutenant of mine had been a sailor-man and knew well how to meet emergencies.

One or two of the soldiers had now forded the stream on horseback, and taken over a heavy rope,
which was made fast to our improvised boat. I was acquainted with all kinds of boats, from
a catamaran to a full-rigged ship, but never a craft like this had I seen. Over the sides we
clambered, however, and were ferried across the treacherous and glassy waters of the Little
Colorado. All the baggage and the two ambulances were ferried over, and the other wagon was
unloaded and drawn over by means of ropes.

This proceeding took all day, and of course we could get no farther, and were again obliged
to camp in that most uncomfortable river-bottom. But we felt safer on that side. I looked at
the smooth surface of the river, and its alkali shores, and the picture became indelibly impressed
upon my memory. The unpleasant reality destroyed any poetic associations which might otherwise
have clung to the name of Sunset Crossing in my ever vivid imagination.

After the tents were pitched, and the camp snugged up, Mr. Bailey produced some champagne and
we wished each other joy, that we had made the dangerous crossing and escaped the perils of
Sanford's Pass. I am afraid the champagne was not as cold as might have been desired, but the
bottle had been wrapped in a wet blanket, and cooled a little in that way, and we drank it
with zest, from a mess-cup.

CHAPTER XVI. STONEMAN'S LAKE

The road began now to ascend, and after twenty miles' travelling we reached a place called
Updyke's Tanks. It was a nice place, with plenty of wood and grass. The next day we camped
at Jay Coxe's Tanks. It was a hard day's march, and I was tired out when we arrived there.
The ambulance was simply jerked over those miles of fearful rocks; one could not say driven
or dragged over, for we were pitched from rock to rock the entire distance.

Stoneman's Lake Road was famous, as I afterwards heard. Perhaps it was just as well for me
that I did not know about it in advance.

The sure-footed mules picked their way over these sharp-edged rocks. There was not a moment's
respite. We asked a soldier to help with holding the baby, for my arms gave out entirely, and
were as if paralyzed. The jolting threw us all by turns against the sides of the ambulance
(which was not padded), and we all got some rather bad bruises. We finally bethought ourselves
of the pappoose basket, which we had brought along in the ambulance, having at the last moment
no other place to put it. So a halt was called, we placed the tired baby in this semi-cradle,
laced the sides snugly over him, and were thus enabled to carry him over those dreadful roads
without danger.

He did not cry much, but the dust made him thirsty. I could not give him nourishment without
stopping the entire train of wagons, on account of the constant pitching of the ambulance;
delay was not advisable or expedient, so my poor little son had to endure with the rest of
us. The big Alsatian cavalryman held the cradle easily in his strong arms, and so the long
miles were travelled, one by one.

At noon of this day we made a refreshing halt, built a fire and took some luncheon. We found
a shady, grassy spot, upon which the blankets were spread, and we stretched ourselves out upon
them and rested. But we were still some miles from water, so after a short respite we were
compelled to push on. We had been getting steadily higher since leaving Sunset Crossing, and
now it began to be cold and looked like snow. Mrs. Bailey and I found it very trying to meet
these changes of temperature. A good place for the camp was found at Coxe's Tanks, trenches
were dug around the tents, and the earth banked up to keep us warm. The cool air, our great
fatigue, and the comparative absence of danger combined to give us a heavenly night's rest.

Towards sunset of the next day, which was May Day, our cavalcade reached Stoneman's Lake. We
had had another rough march, and had reached the limit of endurance, or thought we had, when
we emerged from a mountain pass and drew rein upon the high green mesa overlooking Stoneman's
Lake, a beautiful blue sheet of water lying there away below us. It was good to our tired eyes,
which had gazed upon nothing but burnt rocks and alkali plains for so many days. Our camp was
beautiful beyond description, and lay near the edge of the mesa, whence we could look down
upon the lovely lake. It was a complete surprise to us, as points of scenery were not much
known or talked about then in Arizona. Ponds and lakes were unheard of. They did not seem to
exist in that drear land of arid wastes. We never heard of water except that of the Colorado
or the Gila or the tanks and basins, and irrigation ditches of the settlers. But here was a
real Italian lake, a lake as blue as the skies above us. We feasted our eyes and our very souls
upon it.

Bailey and the guide shot some wild turkeys, and as we had already eaten all the mutton we
had along, the ragout of turkey made by the soldier-cook for our supper tasted better to us
tired and hungry travellers, perhaps, than a canvasback at Delmonico's tastes to the weary
lounger or the over-worked financier.

In the course of the day, we had passed a sort of sign-board, with the rudely written inscription,
"Camp Starvation," and we had heard from Mr. Bailey the story of the tragic misfortunes at
this very place of the well-known Hitchcock family of Arizona. The road was lined with dry
bones, and skulls of oxen, white and bleached in the sun, lying on the bare rocks. Indeed,
at every stage of the road we had seen evidences of hard travel, exhausted cattle, anxious
teamsters, hunger and thirst, despair, starvation, and death.

However, Stoneman's Lake remains a joy in the memory, and far and away the most beautiful spot
I ever saw in Arizona. But unless the approaches to it are made easier, tourists will never
gaze upon it.

In the distance we saw the "divide," over which we must pass in order to reach Camp Verde,
which was to be our first stopping place, and we looked joyfully towards the next day's march,
which we expected would bring us there.

We thought the worst was over and, before retiring to our tents for the night, we walked over
to the edge of the high mesa and, in the gathering shadows of twilight, looked down into the
depths of that beautiful lake, knowing that probably we should never see it again.

And indeed, in all the years I spent in Arizona afterward, I never even heard of the lake again.

I wonder now, did it really exist or was it an illusion, a dream, or the mirage which appears
to the desert traveller, to satisfy him and lure him on, to quiet his imagination, and to save
his senses from utter extinction?

In the morning the camp was all astir for an early move. We had no time to look back: we were
starting for a long day's march, across the "divide," and into Camp Verde.

But we soon found that the road (if road it could be called) was worse than any we had encountered.
The ambulance was pitched and jerked from rock to rock and we were thumped against the iron
framework in a most dangerous manner. So we got out and picked our way over the great sharp
boulders.

The Alsatian soldier carried the baby, who lay securely in the pappoose cradle.

One of the cavalry escort suggested my taking his horse, but I did not feel strong enough to
think of mounting a horse, so great was my discouragement and so exhausted was my vitality.
Oh! if girls only knew about these things I thought! For just a little knowledge of the care
of an infant and its needs, its nourishment and its habits, might have saved both mother and
child from such utter collapse.

Little by little we gave up hope of reaching Verde that day. At four o'clock we crossed the
"divide," and clattered down a road so near the edge of a precipice that I was frightened beyond
everything: my senses nearly left me. Down and around, this way and that, near the edge, then
back again, swaying, swerving, pitching, the gravel clattering over the precipice, the six
mules trotting their fastest, we reached the bottom and the driver pulled up his team. "Beaver
Springs!" said he, impressively, loosening up the brakes.

As Jack lifted me out of the ambulance, I said: "Why didn't you tell me?" pointing back to
the steep road. "Oh," said he, "I thought it was better for you not to know; people get scared
about such things, when they know about them before hand."

"But," I remarked, "such a break-neck pace!" Then, to the driver, "Smith, how could you drive
down that place at such a rate and frighten me so?"

"Had to, ma'am, or we'd a'gone over the edge."

I had been brought up in a flat country down near the sea, and I did not know the dangers of
mountain travelling, nor the difficulties attending the piloting of a six-mule team down a
road like that. From this time on, however, Smith rose in my estimation. I seemed also to be
realizing that the Southwest was a great country and that there was much to learn about. Life
out there was beginning to interest me.

Camp Verde lay sixteen miles farther on; no one knew if the road were good or bad. I declared
I could not travel another mile, even if they all went on and left me to the wolves and the
darkness of Beaver Springs.

We looked to our provisions and took account of stock. There was not enough for the two families.
We had no flour and no bread; there was only a small piece of bacon, six potatoes, some condensed
milk, and some chocolate. The Baileys decided to go on; for Mrs. Bailey was to meet her sister
at Verde and her parents at Whipple. We said good-bye, and their ambulance rolled away. Our
tent was pitched and the baby was laid on the bed, asleep from pure exhaustion.

The dread darkness of night descended upon us, and the strange odors of the bottom-lands arose,
mingling with the delicious smoky smell of the camp-fire.

By the light of the blazing mesquite wood, we now divided what provisions we had, into two
portions: one for supper, and one for breakfast. A very light meal we had that evening, and
I arose from the mess-table unsatisfied and hungry.

Jack and I sat down by the camp-fire, musing over the hard times we were having, when suddenly
I heard a terrified cry from my little son. We rushed to the tent, lighted a candle, and oh!
horror upon horrors! his head and face were covered with large black ants; he was wailing helplessly,
and beating the air with his tiny arms.

"My God!" cried Jack, "we're camped over an ant-hill!"

I seized the child, and brushing off the ants as I fled, brought him out to the fire, where
by its light I succeeded in getting rid of them all. But the horror of it! Can any mother brought
up in God's country with kind nurses and loved ones to minister to her child, for a moment
imagine how I felt when I saw those hideous, three-bodied, long-legged black ants crawling
over my baby's face? After a lapse of years, I cannot recall that moment without a shudder.

The soldiers at last found a place which seemed to be free from ant-hills, and our tent was
again pitched, but only to find that the venomous things swarmed over us as soon as we lay
down to rest.

And so, after the fashion of the Missouri emigrant, we climbed into the ambulance and lay down
upon our blankets in the bottom of it, and tried to believe we were comfortable.

My long, hard journey of the preceding autumn, covering a period of two months; my trying experiences
during the winter at Camp Apache; the sudden break-up and the packing; the lack of assistance
from a nurse; the terrors of the journey; the sympathy for my child, who suffered from many
ailments and principally from lack of nourishment, added to the profound fatigue I felt, had
reduced my strength to a minimum. I wonder that I lived, but something sustained me, and when
we reached Camp Verde the next day, and drew up before Lieutenant O'Connell's quarters, and
saw Mrs. O'Connell's kind face beaming to welcome us, I felt that here was relief at last.

The tall Alsatian handed the pappoose cradle to Mrs. O'Connell.

"Gracious goodness! what is this?" cried the bewildered woman; "surely it cannot be your baby!
You haven't turned entirely Indian, have you, amongst those wild Apaches?"

I felt sorry I had not taken him out of the basket before we arrived. I did not realize the
impression it would make at Camp Verde. After all, they did not know anything about our life
at Apache, or our rough travels to get back from there. Here were lace-curtained windows, well-dressed
women, smart uniforms, and, in fact, civilization, compared with what we had left.

The women of the post gathered around the broad piazza, to see the wonder. But when they saw
the poor little wan face, the blue eyes which looked sadly out at them from this rude cradle,
the linen bandages covering the back of the head, they did not laugh any more, but took him
and ministered to him, as only kind women can minister to a sick baby.

There was not much rest, however, for we had to sort and rearrange our things, and dress ourselves
properly. (Oh! the luxury of a room and a tub, after that journey!) Jack put on his best uniform,
and there was no end of visiting, in spite of the heat, which was considerable even at that
early date in May. The day there would have been pleasant enough but for my wretched condition.

The next morning we set out for Fort Whipple, making a long day's march, and arriving late
in the evening. The wife of the Quartermaster, a total stranger to me, received us, and before
we had time to exchange the usual social platitudes, she gave one look at the baby, and put
an end to any such attempts. "You have a sick child; give him to me;" then I told her some
things, and she said: "I wonder he is alive." Then she took him under her charge and declared
we should not leave her house until he was well again. She understood all about nursing, and
day by day, under her good care, and Doctor Henry Lippincott's skilful treatment, I saw my
baby brought back to life again. Can I ever forget Mrs. Aldrich's blessed kindness?

Up to then, I had taken no interest in Camp MacDowell, where was stationed the company into
which my husband was promoted. I knew it was somewhere in the southern part of the Territory,
and isolated. The present was enough. I was meeting my old Fort Russell friends, and under
Doctor Lippincott's good care I was getting back a measure of strength. Camp MacDowell was
not yet a reality to me.

We met again Colonel Wilkins and Mrs. Wilkins and Carrie, and Mrs. Wilkins thanked me for bringing
her daughter alive out of those wilds. Poor girl; 'twas but a few months when we heard of her
death, at the birth of her second child. I have always thought her death was caused by the
long hard journey from Apache to Whipple, for Nature never intended women to go through what
we went through, on that memorable journey by Stoneman's Lake.

There I met again Captain Porter, and I asked him if he had progressed any in his courtship,
and he, being very much embarrassed, said he did not know, but if patient waiting was of any
avail, he believed he might win his bride.

After we had been at Whipple a few days, Jack came in and remarked casually to Lieutenant Aldrich,
"Well, I heard Bernard has asked to be relieved from Ehrenberg.

"What!" I said, "the lonely man down there on the river--the prisoner of Chillon--the silent
one? Well, they are going to relieve him, of course?"

"Why, yes," said Jack, falteringly, "if they can get anyone to take his place."

"Can't they order some one?" I inquired.

"Of course they can," he replied, and then, turning towards the window, he ventured: "The fact
is Martha, I've been offered it, and am thinking it over." (The real truth was, that he had
applied for it, thinking it possessed great advantages over Camp MacDowell. )

"What! do I hear aright? Have your senses left you? Are you crazy? Are you going to take me
to that awful place? Why, Jack, I should die there!"

"Now, Martha, be reasonable; listen to me, and if you really decide against it, I'll throw
up the detail. But don't you see, we shall be right on the river, the boat comes up every fortnight
or so, you can jump aboard and go up to San Francisco." (Oh, how alluring that sounded to my
ears!) "Why, it's no trouble to get out of Arizona from Ehrenberg. Then, too, I shall be independent,
and can do just as I like, and when I like," et caetera, et caetera. "Oh, you'll be making
the greatest mistake, if you decide against it. As for MacDowell, it's a hell of a place, down
there in the South; and you never will be able to go back East with the baby, if we once get
settled down there. Why, it's a good fifteen days from the river."

And so he piled up the arguments in favor of Ehrenberg, saying finally, "You need not stop
a day there. If the boat happens to be up, you can jump right aboard and start at once down river."

All the discomforts of the voyage on the "Newbern," and the memory of those long days spent
on the river steamer in August had paled before my recent experiences. I flew, in imagination,
to the deck of the "Gila," and to good Captain Mellon, who would take me and my child out of
that wretched Territory.

"Yes, yes, let us go then," I cried; for here came in my inexperience. I thought I was choosing
the lesser evil, and I knew that Jack believed it to be so, and also that he had set his heart
upon Ehrenberg, for reasons known only to the understanding of a military man.

So it was decided to take the Ehrenberg detail.

CHAPTER XVII. THE COLORADO DESERT

Some serpents slid from out the grass That grew in tufts by shattered stone, Then hid below
some broken mass Of ruins older than the East, That Time had eaten, as a bone Is eaten by some
savage beast.

Great dull-eyed rattlesnakes--they lay All loathsome, yellow-skinned, and slept Coiled tight
as pine knots in the sun, With flat heads through the centre run; Then struck out sharp, then
rattling crept Flat-bellied down the dusty way.

--JOAQUIN MILLER.

At the end of a week, we started forth for Ehrenberg. Our escort was now sent back to Camp
Apache, and the Baileys remained at Fort Whipple, so our outfit consisted of one ambulance
and one army wagon. One or two soldiers went along, to help with the teams and the camp.

We travelled two days over a semi-civilized country, and found quite comfortable ranches where
we spent the nights. The greatest luxury was fresh milk, and we enjoyed that at these ranches
in Skull Valley. They kept American cows, and supplied Whipple Barracks with milk and butter.
We drank, and drank, and drank again, and carried a jugful to our bedside. The third day brought
us to Cullen's ranch, at the edge of the desert. Mrs. Cullen was a Mexican woman and had a
little boy named Daniel; she cooked us a delicious supper of stewed chicken, and fried eggs,
and good bread, and then she put our boy to bed in Daniel's crib. I felt so grateful to her;
and with a return of physical comfort, I began to think that life, after all, might be worth
the living.

Hopefully and cheerfully the next morning we entered the vast Colorado desert. This was verily
the desert, more like the desert which our imagination pictures, than the one we had crossed
in September from Mojave. It seemed so white, so bare, so endless, and so still; irreclaimable,
eternal, like Death itself. The stillness was appalling. We saw great numbers of lizards darting
about like lightning; they were nearly as white as the sand itself, and sat up on their hind
legs and looked at us with their pretty, beady black eyes. It seemed very far off from everywhere
and everybody, this desert--but I knew there was a camp somewhere awaiting us, and our mules
trotted patiently on. Towards noon they began to raise their heads and sniff the air; they
knew that water was near. They quickened their pace, and we soon drew up before a large wooden
structure. There were no trees nor grass around it. A Mexican worked the machinery with the
aid of a mule, and water was bought for our twelve animals, at so much per head. The place
was called Mesquite Wells; the man dwelt alone in his desolation, with no living being except
his mule for company. How could he endure it! I was not able, even faintly, to comprehend it;
I had not lived long enough. He occupied a small hut, and there he staid, year in and year
out, selling water to the passing traveller; and I fancy that travellers were not so frequent
at Mesquite Wells a quarter of a century ago.

The thought of that hermit and his dreary surroundings filled my mind for a long time after
we drove away, and it was only when we halted and a soldier got down to kill a great rattlesnake
near the ambulance, that my thoughts were diverted. The man brought the rattles to us and the
new toy served to amuse my little son.

At night we arrived at Desert Station. There was a good ranch there, kept by Hunt and Dudley,
Englishmen, I believe. I did not see them, but I wondered who they were and why they staid
in such a place. They were absent at the time; perhaps they had mines or something of the sort
to look after. One is always imagining things about people who live in such extraordinary places.
At all events, whatever Messrs. Hunt and Dudley were doing down there, their ranch was clean
and attractive, which was more than could be said of the place where we stopped the next night,
a place called Tyson's Wells. We slept in our tent that night, for of all places on the earth
a poorly kept ranch in Arizona is the most melancholy and uninviting. It reeks of everything
unclean, morally and physically. Owen Wister has described such a place in his delightful story,
where the young tenderfoot dances for the amusement of the old habitues.

One more day's travel across the desert brought us to our El Dorado.

CHAPTER XVIII. EHRENBERG ON THE COLORADO

Under the burning mid-day sun of Arizona, on May 16th, our six good mules, with the long whip
cracking about their ears, and the ambulance rattling merrily along, brought us into the village
of Ehrenberg. There was one street, so called, which ran along on the river bank, and then
a few cross streets straggling back into the desert, with here and there a low adobe casa.
The Government house stood not far from the river, and as we drove up to the entrance the same
blank white walls stared at me. It did not look so much like a prison, after all, I thought.
Captain Bernard, the man whom I had pitied, stood at the doorway, to greet us, and after we
were inside the house he had some biscuits and wine brought; and then the change of stations
was talked of, and he said to me, "Now, please make yourself at home. The house is yours; my
things are virtually packed up, and I leave in a day or two. There is a soldier here who can
stay with you; he has been able to attend to my simple wants. I eat only twice a day; and here
is Charley, my Indian, who fetches the water from the river and does the chores. I dine generally
at sundown."

A shadow fell across the sunlight in the doorway; I looked around and there stood "Charley,"
who had come in with the noiseless step of the moccasined foot. I saw before me a handsome
naked Cocopah Indian, who wore a belt and a gee-string. He seemed to feel at home and began
to help with the bags and various paraphernalia of ambulance travellers. He looked to be about
twenty-four years old. His face was smiling and friendly and I knew I should like him.

The house was a one-story adobe. It formed two sides of a hollow square; the other two sides
were a high wall, and the Government freight-house respectively. The courtyard was partly shaded
by a ramada and partly open to the hot sun. There was a chicken-yard in one corner of the inclosed
square, and in the centre stood a rickety old pump, which indicated some sort of a well. Not
a green leaf or tree or blade of grass in sight. Nothing but white sand, as far as one could
see, in all directions.

Inside the house there were bare white walls, ceilings covered with manta, and sagging, as
they always do; small windows set in deep embrasures, and adobe floors. Small and inconvenient
rooms, opening one into another around two sides of the square. A sort of low veranda protected
by lattice screens, made from a species of slim cactus, called ocotilla, woven together, and
bound with raw-hide, ran around a part of the house.

Our dinner was enlivened by some good Cocomonga wine. I tried to ascertain something about
the source of provisions, but evidently the soldier had done the foraging, and Captain Bernard
admitted that it was difficult, adding always that he did not require much, "it was so warm,"
et caetera, et caetera. The next morning I took the reins, nominally, but told the soldier
to go ahead and do just as he had always done. I selected a small room for the baby's bath,
the all important function of the day. The Indian brought me a large tub (the same sort of
a half of a vinegar barrel we had used at Apache for ourselves), set it down in the middle
of the floor, and brought water from a barrel which stood in the corral. A low box was placed
for me to sit on. This was a bachelor establishment, and there was no place but the floor to
lay things on; but what with the splashing and the leaking and the dripping, the floor turned
to mud and the white clothes and towels were covered with it, and I myself was a sight to behold.
The Indian stood smiling at my plight. He spoke only a pigeon English, but said, "too much-ee wet."

I was in despair; things began to look hopeless again to me. I thought "surely these Mexicans
must know how to manage with these floors." Fisher, the steamboat agent, came in, and I asked
him if he could not find me a nurse. He said he would try, and went out to see what could be done.

He finally brought in a rather forlorn looking Mexican woman leading a little child (whose
father was not known), and she said she would come to us for quinze pesos a month. I consulted
with Fisher, and he said she was a pretty good sort, and that we could not afford to be too
particular down in that country. And so she came; and although she was indolent, and forever
smoking cigarettes, she did care for the baby, and fanned him when he slept, and proved a blessing
to me.

And now came the unpacking of our boxes, which had floated down the Colorado Chiquito. The
fine damask, brought from Germany for my linen chest, was a mass of mildew; and when the books
came to light, I could have wept to see the pretty editions of Schiller, Goethe, and Lessing,
which I had bought in Hanover, fall out of their bindings; the latter, warped out of all shape,
and some of them unrecognizable. I did the best I could, however, not to show too much concern,
and gathered the pages carefully together, to dry them in the sun.

They were my pride, my best beloved possessions, the links that bound me to the happy days
in old Hanover.

I went to Fisher for everything--a large, well-built American, and a kind good man. Mrs. Fisher
could not endure the life at Ehrenberg, so she lived in San Francisco, he told me. There were
several other white men in the place, and two large stores where everything was kept that people
in such countries buy. These merchants made enormous profits, and their families lived in luxury
in San Francisco.

The rest of the population consisted of a very poor class of Mexicans, Cocopah, Yuma and Mojave
Indians, and half-breeds.

The duties of the army officer stationed here consisted principally in receiving and shipping
the enormous quantity of Government freight which was landed by the river steamers. It was
shipped by wagon trains across the Territory, and at all times the work carried large responsibilities
with it.

I soon realized that however much the present incumbent might like the situation, it was no
fit place for a woman.

The station at Ehrenberg was what we call, in the army, "detached service." I realized that
we had left the army for the time being; that we had cut loose from a garrison; that we were
in a place where good food could not be procured, and where there were practically no servants
to be had. That there was not a woman to speak to, or to go to for advice or help, and, worst
of all, that there was no doctor in the place. Besides all this, my clothes were all ruined
by lying wet for a fortnight in the boxes, and I had practically nothing to wear. I did not
then know what useless things clothes were in Ehrenberg.

The situation appeared rather serious; the weather had grown intensely hot, and it was decided
that the only thing for me to do was to go to San Francisco for the summer.

So one day we heard the whistle of the "Gila" going up; and when she came down river, I was
all ready to go on board, with Patrocina and Jesusita, [*] and my own child, who was yet but
five months old. I bade farewell to the man on detached service, and we headed down river.
We seemed to go down very rapidly, although the trip lasted several days. Patrocina took to
her bed with neuralgia (or nostalgia); her little devil of a child screamed the entire days
and nights through, to the utter discomfiture of the few other passengers. A young lieutenant
and his wife and an army surgeon, who had come from one of the posts in the interior, were
among the number, and they seemed to think that I could help it (though they did not say so).

     * Diminutive of Jesus, a very common name amongst the
     Mexicans. Pronounced Hay-soo-se-ta.

Finally the doctor said that if I did not throw Jesusita overboard, he would; why didn't I
"wring the neck of its worthless Mexican of a mother?" and so on, until I really grew very
nervous and unhappy, thinking what I should do after we got on board the ocean steamer. I,
a victim of seasickness, with this unlucky woman and her child on my hands, in addition to
my own! No; I made up my mind to go back to Ehrenberg, but I said nothing.

I did not dare to let Doctor Clark know of my decision, for I knew he would try to dissuade
me; but when we reached the mouth of the river, and they began to transfer the passengers to
the ocean steamer which lay in the offing, I quietly sat down upon my trunk and told them I
was going back to Ehrenberg. Captain Mellon grinned; the others were speechless; they tried
persuasion, but saw it was useless; and then they said good-bye to me, and our stern-wheeler
headed about and started for up river.

Ehrenberg had become truly my old man of the sea; I could not get rid of it. There I must go,
and there I must stay, until circumstances and the Fates were more propitious for my departure.

CHAPTER XIX. SUMMER AT EHRENBERG

The week we spent going up the Colorado in June was not as uncomfortable as the time spent
on the river in August of the previous year. Everything is relative, I discovered, and I was
happy in going back to stay with the First Lieutenant of C Company, and share his fortunes
awhile longer.

Patrocina recovered, as soon as she found we were to return to Ehrenberg. I wondered how anybody
could be so homesick for such a God-forsaken place. I asked her if she had ever seen a tree,
or green grass (for I could talk with her quite easily now). She shook her mournful head. "But
don't you want to see trees and grass and flowers?"

Another sad shake of the head was the only reply.

Such people, such natures, and such lives, were incomprehensible to me then. I could not look
at things except from my own standpoint.

She took her child upon her knee, and lighted a cigarette; I took mine upon my knee, and gazed
at the river banks: they were now old friends: I had gazed at them many times before; how much
I had experienced, and how much had happened since I first saw them! Could it be that I should
ever come to love them, and the pungent smell of the arrow-weed which covered them to the water's
edge?

The huge mosquitoes swarmed over us in the nights from those thick clumps of arrow-weed and
willow, and the nets with which Captain Mellon provided us did not afford much protection.

The June heat was bad enough, though not quite so stifling as the August heat. I was becoming
accustomed to climates, and had learned to endure discomfort. The salt beef and the Chinaman's
peach pies were no longer offensive to me. Indeed, I had a good appetite for them, though they
were not exactly the sort of food prescribed by the modern doctor, for a young mother. Of course,
milk, eggs, and all fresh food were not to be had on the river boats. Ice was still a thing
unknown on the Colorado.

When, after a week, the "Gila" pushed her nose up to the bank at Ehrenberg, there stood the
Quartermaster. He jumped aboard, and did not seem in the least surprised to see me. "I knew
you'd come back," said he. I laughed, of course, and we both laughed.

"I hadn't the courage to go on," I replied

"Oh, well, we can make things comfortable here and get through the summer some way," he said.
"I'll build some rooms on, and a kitchen, and we can surely get along. It's the healthiest
place in the world for children, they tell me."

So after a hearty handshake with Captain Mellon, who had taken such good care of me on my week's
voyage up river, I being almost the only passenger, I put my foot once more on the shores of
old Ehrenberg, and we wended our way towards the blank white walls of the Government house.
I was glad to be back, and content to wait.

So work was begun immediately on the kitchen. My first stipulation was, that the new rooms
were to have wooden floors; for, although the Cocopah Charley kept the adobe floors in perfect
condition, by sprinkling them down and sweeping them out every morning, they were quite impossible,
especially where it concerned white dresses and children, and the little sharp rocks in them
seemed to be so tiring to the feet.

Life as we Americans live it was difficult in Ehrenberg. I often said: "Oh! if we could only
live as the Mexicans live, how easy it would be!" For they had their fire built between some
stones piled up in their yard, a piece of sheet iron laid over the top: this was the cooking-stove.
A pot of coffee was made in the morning early, and the family sat on the low porch and drank
it, and ate a biscuit. Then a kettle of frijoles [*] was put over to boil. These were boiled
slowly for some hours, then lard and salt were added, and they simmered down until they were
deliciously fit to eat, and had a thick red gravy.

     *Mexican brown bean.

Then the young matron, or daughter of the house, would mix the peculiar paste of flour and
salt and water, for tortillas, a species of unleavened bread. These tortillas were patted out
until they were as large as a dinner plate, and very thin; then thrown onto the hot sheet-iron,
where they baked. Each one of the family then got a tortilla, the spoonful of beans was laid
upon it, and so they managed without the paraphernalia of silver and china and napery.

How I envied them the simplicity of their lives! Besides, the tortillas were delicious to eat,
and as for the frijoles, they were beyond anything I had ever eaten in the shape of beans.
I took lessons in the making of tortillas. A woman was paid to come and teach me; but I never
mastered the art. It is in the blood of the Mexican, and a girl begins at a very early age
to make the tortilla. It is the most graceful thing to see a pretty Mexican toss the wafer-like
disc over her bare arm, and pat it out until transparent.

This was their supper; for, like nearly all people in the tropics, they ate only twice a day.
Their fare was varied sometimes by a little carni seca, pounded up and stewed with chile verde
or chile colorado.

Now if you could hear the soft, exquisite, affectionate drawl with which the Mexican woman
says chile verde you could perhaps come to realize what an important part the delicious green
pepper plays in the cookery of these countries. They do not use it in its raw state, but generally
roast it whole, stripping off the thin skin and throwing away the seeds, leaving only the pulp,
which acquires a fine flavor by having been roasted or toasted over the hot coals.

The women were scrupulously clean and modest, and always wore, when in their casa, a low-necked
and short-sleeved white linen camisa, fitting neatly, with bands around neck and arms. Over
this they wore a calico skirt; always white stockings and black slippers. When they ventured
out, the younger women put on muslin gowns, and carried parasols. The older women wore a linen
towel thrown over their heads, or, in cool weather, the black riboso. I often cried: "Oh! if
I could only dress as the Mexicans do! Their necks and arms do look so cool and clean."

I have always been sorry I did not adopt their fashion of house apparel. Instead of that, I
yielded to the prejudices of my conservative partner, and sweltered during the day in high-necked
and long-sleeved white dresses, kept up the table in American fashion, ate American food in
so far as we could get it, and all at the expense of strength; for our soldier cooks, who were
loaned us by Captain Ernest from his company at Fort Yuma, were constantly being changed, and
I was often left with the Indian and the indolent Patrocina. At those times, how I wished I
had no silver, no table linen, no china, and could revert to the primitive customs of my neighbors!

There was no market, but occasionally a Mexican killed a steer, and we bought enough for one
meal; but having no ice, and no place away from the terrific heat, the meat was hung out under
the ramada with a piece of netting over it, until the first heat had passed out of it, and
then it was cooked.

The Mexican, after selling what meat he could, cut the rest into thin strips and hung it up
on ropes to dry in the sun. It dried hard and brittle, in its natural state, so pure is the
air on that wonderful river bank. They called this carni seca, and the Americans called it
"jerked beef."

Patrocina often prepared me a dish of this, when I was unable to taste the fresh meat. She
would pound it fine with a heavy pestle, and then put it to simmer, seasoning it with the green
or red pepper. It was most savory. There was no butter at all during the hot months, but our
hens laid a few eggs, and the Quartermaster was allowed to keep a small lot of commissary stores,
from which we drew our supplies of flour, ham, and canned things. We were often without milk
for weeks at a time, for the cows crossed the river to graze, and sometimes could not get back
until the river fell again, and they could pick their way back across the shifting sand bars.

The Indian brought the water every morning in buckets from the river. It looked like melted
chocolate. He filled the barrels, and when it had settled clear, the ollas were filled, and
thus the drinking water was a trifle cooler than the air. One day it seemed unusually cool,
so I said: "Let us see by the thermometer how cool the water really is." We found the temperature
of the water to be 86 degrees; but that, with the air at 122 in the shade, seemed quite refreshing
to drink.

I did not see any white people at all except Fisher, Abe Frank (the mail contractor), and one
or two of the younger merchants. If I wanted anything, I went to Fisher. He always could solve
the difficulty. He procured for me an excellent middle-aged laundress, who came and brought
the linen herself, and, bowing to the floor, said always, "Buenos dias, Senorita!" dwelling
on the latter word, as a gentle compliment to a younger woman, and then, "Mucho calor este
dia," in her low, drawling voice.

Like the others, she was spotlessly clean, modest and gentle. I asked her what on earth they
did about bathing, for I had found the tub baths with the muddy water so disagreeable. She
told me the women bathed in the river at daybreak, and asked me if I would like to go with them.

I was only too glad to avail myself of her invitation, and so, like Pharoah's daughter of old,
I went with my gentle handmaiden every morning to the river bank, and, wading in about knee-deep
in the thick red waters, we sat down and let the swift current flow by us. We dared not go
deeper; we could feel the round stones grinding against each other as they were carried down,
and we were all afraid. It was difficult to keep one's foothold, and Capt. Mellon's words were
ever ringing in my ears, "He who disappears below the surface of the Colorado is never seen
again." But we joined hands and ventured like children and played like children in these red
waters and after all, it was much nicer than a tub of muddy water indoors.

A clump of low mesquite trees at the top of the bank afforded sufficient protection at that
hour; we rubbed dry, slipped on a loose gown, and wended our way home. What a contrast to the
limpid, bracing salt waters of my own beloved shores!

When I thought of them, I was seized with a longing which consumed me and made my heart sick;
and I thought of these poor people, who had never known anything in their lives but those desert
places, and that muddy red water, and wondered what they would do, how they would act, if transported
into some beautiful forest, or to the cool bright shores where clear blue waters invite to
a plunge.

Whenever the river-boat came up, we were sure to have guests, for many officers went into the
Territory via Ehrenberg. Sometimes the "transportation" was awaiting them; at other times,
they were obliged to wait at Ehrenberg until it arrived. They usually lived on the boat, as
we had no extra rooms, but I generally asked them to luncheon or supper (for anything that
could be called a dinner was out of the question).

This caused me some anxiety, as there was nothing to be had; but I remembered the hospitality
I had received, and thought of what they had been obliged to eat on the voyage, and I always
asked them to share what we could provide, however simple it might be.

At such times we heard all the news from Washington and the States, and all about the fashions,
and they, in their turn, asked me all sorts of questions about Ehrenberg and how I managed
to endure the life. They were always astonished when the Cocopah Indian waited on them at table,
for he wore nothing but his gee-string, and although it was an every-day matter to us, it rather
took their breath away.

But "Charley" appealed to my aesthetic sense in every way. Tall, and well-made, with clean-cut
limbs and features, fine smooth copper-colored skin, handsome face, heavy black hair done up
in pompadour fashion and plastered with Colorado mud, which was baked white by the sun, a small
feather at the crown of his head, wide turquoise bead bracelets upon his upper arm, and a knife
at his waist--this was my Charley, my half-tame Cocopah, my man about the place, my butler
in fact, for Charley understood how to open a bottle of Cocomonga gracefully, and to keep the
glasses filled.

Charley also wheeled the baby out along the river banks, for we had had a fine "perambulator"
sent down from San Francisco. It was an incongruous sight, to be sure, and one must laugh to
think of it. The Ehrenberg babies did not have carriages, and the village flocked to see it.
There sat the fair-haired, six-months-old boy, with but one linen garment on, no cap, no stockings--and
this wild man of the desert, his knife gleaming at his waist, and his gee-string floating out
behind, wheeling and pushing the carriage along the sandy roads.

But this came to an end; for one day Fisher rushed in, breathless, and said: "Well! here is
your baby! I was just in time, for that Injun of yours left the carriage in the middle of the
street, to look in at the store window, and a herd of wild cattle came tearing down! I grabbed
the carriage to the sidewalk, cussed the Injun out, and here's the child! It's no use," he
added, "you can't trust those Injuns out of sight."

The heat was terrific. Our cots were placed in the open part of the corral (as our courtyard
was always called). It was a desolate-looking place; on one side, the high adobe wall; on another,
the freight-house; and on the other two, our apartments. Our kitchen and the two other rooms
were now completed. The kitchen had no windows, only open spaces to admit the air and light,
and we were often startled in the night by the noise of thieves in the house, rummaging for food.

At such times, our soldier-cook would rush into the corral with his rifle, the Lieutenant would
jump up and seize his shotgun, which always stood near by, and together they would roam through
the house. But the thieving Indians could jump out of the windows as easily as they jumped
in, and the excitement would soon be over. The violent sand-storms which prevail in those deserts,
sometimes came up in the night, without warning; then we rushed half suffocated and blinded
into the house, and as soon as we had closed the windows it had passed on, leaving a deep layer
of sand on everything in the room, and on our perspiring bodies.

Then came the work, next day, for the Indian had to carry everything out of doors; and one
storm was so bad that he had to use a shovel to remove the sand from the floors. The desert
literally blew into the house.

And now we saw a singular phenomenon. In the late afternoon of each day, a hot steam would
collect over the face of the river, then slowly rise, and floating over the length and breadth
of this wretched hamlet of Ehrenberg, descend upon and envelop us. Thus we wilted and perspired,
and had one part of the vapor bath without its bracing concomitant of the cool shower. In a
half hour it was gone, but always left me prostrate; then Jack gave me milk punch, if milk
was at hand, or sherry and egg, or something to bring me up to normal again. We got to dread
the steam so; it was the climax of the long hot day and was peculiar to that part of the river.
The paraphernalia by the side of our cots at night consisted of a pitcher of cold tea, a lantern,
matches, a revolver, and a shotgun. Enormous yellow cats, which lived in and around the freight-house,
darted to and fro inside and outside the house, along the ceiling-beams, emitting loud cries,
and that alone was enough to prevent sleep. In the old part of the house, some of the partitions
did not run up to the roof, but were left open (for ventilation, I suppose), thus making a
fine play-ground for cats and rats, which darted along, squeaking, meowing and clattering all
the night through. An uncanny feeling of insecurity was ever with me. What with the accumulated
effect of the day's heat, what with the thieving Indians, the sand-storms and the cats, our
nights by no means gave us the refreshment needed by our worn-out systems. By the latter part
of the summer, I was so exhausted by the heat and the various difficulties of living, that
I had become a mere shadow of my former self.

Men and children seem to thrive in those climates, but it is death to women, as I had often heard.

It was in the late summer that the boat arrived one day bringing a large number of staff officers
and their wives, head clerks, and "general service" men for Fort Whipple. They had all been
stationed in Washington for a number of years, having had what is known in the army as "gilt-edged"
details. I threw a linen towel over my head, and went to the boat to call on them, and, remembering
my voyage from San Francisco the year before, prepared to sympathize with them. But they had
met their fate with resignation; knowing they should find a good climate and a pleasant post
up in the mountains, and as they had no young children with them, they were disposed to make
merry over their discomforts.

We asked them to come to our quarters for supper, and to come early, as any place was cooler
than the boat, lying down there in the melting sun, and nothing to look upon but those hot
zinc-covered decks or the ragged river banks, with their uninviting huts scattered along the edge.

The surroundings somehow did not fit these people. Now Mrs. Montgomery at Camp Apache seemed
to have adapted herself to the rude setting of a log cabin in the mountains, but these were
Staff people and they had enjoyed for years the civilized side of army life; now they were
determined to rough it, but they did not know how to begin.

The beautiful wife of the Adjutant-General was mourning over some freckles which had come to
adorn her dazzling complexion, and she had put on a large hat with a veil. Was there ever anything
so incongruous as a hat and veil in Ehrenberg! For a long time I had not seen a woman in a
hat; the Mexicans all wore a linen towel over their heads.

But her beauty was startling, and, after all, I thought, a woman so handsome must try to live
up to her reputation. Now for some weeks Jack had been investigating the sulphur well, which
was beneath the old pump in our corral. He had had a long wooden bath-tub built, and I watched
it with a lazy interest, and observed his glee as he found a longshoreman or roustabout who
could caulk it. The shape was exactly like a coffin (but men have no imaginations), and when
I told him how it made me feel to look at it, he said: "Oh! you are always thinking of gloomy
things. It's a fine tub, and we are mighty lucky to find that man to caulk it. I'm going to
set it up in the little square room, and lead the sulphur water into it, and it will be splendid,
and just think," he added, "what it will do for rheumatism!"

Now Jack had served in the Twentieth Massachusetts Volunteers during the Civil War, and the
swamps of the Chickahominy had brought him into close acquaintance with that dread disease.

As for myself, rheumatism was about the only ailment I did not have at that time, and I suppose
I did not really sympathize with him. But this energetic and indomitable man mended the pump,
with Fisher's help, and led the water into the house, laid a floor, set up the tub in the little
square room, and behold, our sulphur bath!

After much persuasion, I tried the bath. The water flowed thick and inky black into the tub;
of course the odor was beyond description, and the effect upon me was not such that I was ever
willing to try it again. Jack beamed. "How do you like it, Martha?" said he. "Isn't it fine?
Why people travel hundreds of miles to get a bath like that!"

I had my own opinion, but I did not wish to dampen his enthusiasm. Still, in order to protect
myself in the future, I had to tell him I thought I should ordinarily prefer the river.

"Well," he said, "there are those who will be thankful to have a bath in that water; I am going
to use it every day."

I remonstrated: "How do you know what is in that inky water--and how do you dare to use it?"

"Oh, Fisher says it's all right; people here used to drink it years ago, but they have not
done so lately, because the pump was broken down."

The Washington people seemed glad to pay us the visit. Jack's eyes danced with true generosity
and glee. He marked his victim; and, selecting the Staff beauty and the Paymaster's wife, he
expatiated on the wonderful properties of his sulphur bath.

"Why, yes, the sooner the better," said Mrs. Martin. "I'd give everything I have in this world,
and all my chances for the next, to get a tub bath!"

"It will be so refreshing just before supper," said Mrs. Maynadier, who was more conservative.

So the Indian, who had put on his dark blue waist-band (or sash), made from flannel, revelled
out and twisted into strands of yarn, and which showed the supple muscles of his clean-cut
thighs, and who had done up an extra high pompadour in white clay, and burnished his knife,
which gleamed at his waist, ushered these Washington women into a small apartment adjoining
the bath-room, and turned on the inky stream into the sarcophagus.

The Staff beauty looked at the black pool, and shuddered. "Do you use it?" said she.

"Occasionally," I equivocated.

"Does it hurt the complexion?" she ventured.

"Jack thinks it excellent for that," I replied.

And then I left them, directing Charley to wait, and prepare the bath for the second victim.

By and by the beauty came out. "Where is your mirror?" cried she (for our appointments were
primitive, and mirrors did not grow on bushes at Ehrenberg); "I fancy I look queer," she added,
and, in truth, she did; for our water of the Styx did not seem to affiliate with the chemical
properties of the numerous cosmetics used by her, more or less, all her life, but especially
on the voyage, and her face had taken on a queer color, with peculiar spots here and there.

Fortunately my mirrors were neither large nor true, and she never really saw how she looked,
but when she came back into the living-room, she laughed and said to Jack: "What kind of water
did you say that was? I never saw any just like it."

"Oh! you have probably never been much to the sulphur springs," said he, with his most superior
and crushing manner.

"Perhaps not," she replied, "but I thought I knew something about it; why, my entire body turned
such a queer color."

"Oh! it always does that," said this optimistic soldier man, "and that shows it is doing good."

The Paymaster's wife joined us later. I think she had profited by the beauty's experience,
for she said but little.

The Quartermaster was happy; and what if his wife did not believe in that uncanny stream which
flowed somewhere from out the infernal regions, underlying that wretched hamlet, he had succeeded
in being a benefactor to two travellers at least!

We had a merry supper: cold ham, chicken, and fresh biscuit, a plenty of good Cocomonga wine,
sweet milk, which to be sure turned to curds as it stood on the table, some sort of preserves
from a tin, and good coffee. I gave them the best to be had in the desert--and at all events
it was a change from the Chinaman's salt beef and peach pies, and they saw fresh table linen
and shining silver, and accepted our simple hospitality in the spirit in which we gave it.

Alice Martin was much amused over Charley; and Charley could do nothing but gaze on her lovely
features. "Why on earth don't you put some clothes on him?" laughed she, in her delightful way.

I explained to her that the Indian's fashion of wearing white men's clothes was not pleasing
to the eye, and told her that she must cultivate her aesthetic sense, and in a short time she
would be able to admire these copper-colored creatures of Nature as much as I did.

But I fear that a life spent mostly in a large city had cast fetters around her imagination,
and that the life at Fort Whipple afterwards savored too much of civilization to loosen the
bonds of her soul. I saw her many times again, but she never recovered from her amazement at
Charley's lack of apparel, and she never forgot the sulphur bath.

CHAPTER XX. MY DELIVERER

One day, in the early autumn, as the "Gila" touched at Ehrenberg, on her way down river, Captain
Mellon called Jack on to the boat, and, pointing to a young woman, who was about to go ashore,
said: "Now, there's a girl I think will do for your wife. She imagines she has bronchial troubles,
and some doctor has ordered her to Tucson. She comes from up North somewhere. Her money has
given out, and she thinks I am going to leave her here. Of course, you know I would not do
that; I can take her on down to Yuma, but I thought your wife might like to have her, so I've
told her she could not travel on this boat any farther without she could pay her fare. Speak
to her: she looks to me like a nice sort of a girl."

In the meantime, the young woman had gone ashore and was sitting upon her trunk, gazing hopelessly
about. Jack approached, offered her a home and good wages, and brought her to me.

I could have hugged her for very joy, but I restrained myself and advised her to stay with
us for awhile, saying the Ehrenberg climate was quite as good as that of Tucson.

She remarked quietly: "You do not look as if it agreed with you very well, ma'am."

Then I told her of my young child, and my hard journeys, and she decided to stay until she
could earn enough to reach Tucson.

And so Ellen became a member of our Ehrenberg family. She was a fine, strong girl, and a very
good cook, and seemed to be in perfect health. She said, however, that she had had an obstinate
cough which nothing would reach, and that was why she came to Arizona. From that time, things
went more smoothly. Some yeast was procured from the Mexican bakeshop, and Ellen baked bread
and other things, which seemed like the greatest luxuries to us. We sent the soldier back to
his company at Fort Yuma, and began to live with a degree of comfort.

I looked at Ellen as my deliverer, and regarded her coming as a special providence, the kind
I had heard about all my life in New England, but had never much believed in.

After a few weeks, Ellen was one evening seized with a dreadful toothache, which grew so severe
that she declared she could not endure it another hour: she must have the tooth out. "Was there
a dentist in the place?"

I looked at Jack: he looked at me: Ellen groaned with pain.

"Why, yes! of course there is," said this man for emergencies; "Fisher takes out teeth, he
told me so the other day."

Now I did not believe that Fisher knew any more about extracting teeth than I did myself, but
I breathed a prayer to the Recording Angel, and said naught.

"I'll go get Fisher," said Jack.

Now Fisher was the steamboat agent. He stood six feet in his stockings, had a powerful physique
and a determined eye. Men in those countries had to be determined; for if they once lost their
nerve, Heaven save them. Fisher had handsome black eyes.

When they came in, I said: "Can you attend to this business, Mr. Fisher?"

"I think so," he replied, quietly. "The Quartermaster says he has some forceps."

I gasped. Jack, who had left the room, now appeared, a box of instruments in his hand, his
eyes shining with joy and triumph.

Fisher took the box, and scanned it. "I guess they'll do," said he.

So we placed Ellen in a chair, a stiff barrack chair, with a raw-hide seat, and no arms.

It was evening.

"Mattie, you must hold the candle," said Jack. "I'll hold Ellen, and, Fisher, you pull the tooth."

So I lighted the candle, and held it, while Ellen tried, by its flickering light, to show Fisher
the tooth that ached.

Fisher looked again at the box of instruments. "Why," said he, "these are lower jaw rollers,
the kind used a hundred years ago; and her tooth is an upper jaw."

"Never mind," answered the Lieutenant, "the instruments are all right. Fisher, you can get
the tooth out, that's all you want, isn't it?"

The Lieutenant was impatient; and besides he did not wish any slur cast upon his precious instruments.

So Fisher took up the forceps, and clattered around amongst Ellen's sound white teeth. His
hand shook, great beads of perspiration gathered on his face, and I perceived a very strong
odor of Cocomonga wine. He had evidently braced for the occasion.

It was, however, too late to protest. He fastened onto a molar, and with the lion's strength
which lay in his gigantic frame, he wrenched it out.

Ellen put up her hand and felt the place. "My God! you've pulled the wrong tooth!" cried she,
and so he had.

I seized a jug of red wine which stood near by, and poured out a gobletful, which she drank.
The blood came freely from her mouth, and I feared something dreadful had happened.

Fisher declared she had shown him the wrong tooth, and was perfectly willing to try again.
I could not witness the second attempt, so I put the candle down and fled.

The stout-hearted and confiding girl allowed the second trial, and between the steamboat agent,
the Lieutenant, and the red wine, the aching molar was finally extracted.

This was a serious and painful occurrence. It did not cause any of us to laugh, at the time.
I am sure that Ellen, at least, never saw the comical side of it.

When it was all over, I thanked Fisher, and Jack beamed upon me with: "You see, Mattie, my
case of instruments did come in handy, after all."

Encouraged by success, he applied for a pannier of medicines, and the Ehrenberg citizens soon
regarded him as a healer. At a certain hour in the morning, the sick ones came to his office,
and he dispensed simple drugs to them and was enabled to do much good. He seemed to have a
sort of intuitive knowledge about medicines and performed some miraculous cures, but acquired
little or no facility in the use of the language.

I was often called in as interpreter, and with the help of the sign language, and the little
I knew of Spanish, we managed to get an idea of the ailments of these poor people.

And so our life flowed on in that desolate spot, by the banks of the Great Colorado.

I rarely went outside the enclosure, except for my bath in the river at daylight, or for some
urgent matter. The one street along the river was hot and sandy and neglected. One had not
only to wade through the sand, but to step over the dried heads or horns or bones of animals
left there to whiten where they died, or thrown out, possibly, when some one killed a sheep
or beef. Nothing decayed there, but dried and baked hard in that wonderful air and sun.

Then, the groups of Indians, squaws and halfbreeds loafing around the village and the store!
One never felt sure what one was to meet, and although by this time I tolerated about everything
that I had been taught to think wicked or immoral, still, in Ehrenberg, the limit was reached,
in the sights I saw on the village streets, too bold and too rude to be described in these pages.

The few white men there led respectable lives enough for that country. The standard was not
high, and when I thought of the dreary years they had already spent there without their families,
and the years they must look forward to remaining there, I was willing to reserve my judgement.

CHAPTER XXI. WINTER IN EHRENBERG

We asked my sister, Mrs. Penniman, to come out and spend the winter with us, and to bring her
son, who was in most delicate health. It was said that the climate of Ehrenberg would have
a magical effect upon all diseases of the lungs or throat. So, to save her boy, my sister made
the long and arduous trip out from New England, arriving in Ehrenberg in October.

What a joy to see her, and to initiate her into the ways of our life in Arizona! Everything
was new, everything was a wonder to her and to my nephew. At first, he seemed to gain perceptibly,
and we had great hopes of his recovery.

It was now cool enough to sleep indoors, and we began to know what it was to have a good night's
rest.

But no sooner had we gotten one part of our life comfortably arranged, before another part
seemed to fall out of adjustment. Accidents and climatic conditions kept my mind in a perpetual
state of unrest.

Our dining-room door opened through two small rooms into the kitchen, and one day, as I sat
at the table, waiting for Jack to come in to supper, I heard a strange sort of crashing noise.
Looking towards the kitchen, through the vista of open doorways, I saw Ellen rush to the door
which led to the courtyard. She turned a livid white, threw up her hands, and cried, "Great
God! the Captain!" She was transfixed with horror.

I flew to the door, and saw that the pump had collapsed and gone down into the deep sulphur
well. In a second, Jack's head and hands appeared at the edge; he seemed to be caught in the
debris of rotten timber. Before I could get to him, he had scrambled half way out. "Don't come
near this place," he cried, "it's all caving in!"

And so it seemed; for, as he worked himself up and out, the entire structure feel in, and half
the corral with it, as it looked to me.

Jack escaped what might have been an unlucky bath in his sulphur well, and we all recovered
our composure as best we could.

Surely, if life was dull at Ehrenberg, it could not be called exactly monotonous. We were not
obliged to seek our excitement outside; we had plenty of it, such as it was, within our walls.

My confidence in Ehrenberg, however, as a salubrious dwelling-place, was being gradually and
literally undermined. I began to be distrustful of the very ground beneath my feet. Ellen felt
the same way, evidently, although we did not talk much about it. She probably longed also for
some of her own kind; and when, one morning, we went into the dining-room for breakfast, Ellen
stood, hat on, bag in hand, at the door. Dreading to meet my chagrin, she said: "Good-bye,
Captain; good-bye, missis, you've been very kind to me. I'm leaving on the stage for Tucson--where
I first started for, you know."

And she tripped out and climbed up into the dusty, rickety vehicle called "the stage." I had
felt so safe about Ellen, as I did not know that any stage line ran through the place.

And now I was in a fine plight! I took a sunshade, and ran over to Fisher's house. "Mr. Fisher,
what shall I do? Ellen has gone to Tucson!"

Fisher bethought himself, and we went out together in the village. Not a woman to be found
who would come to cook for us! There was only one thing to do. The Quartermaster was allowed
a soldier, to assist in the Government work. I asked him if he understood cooking; he said
he had never done any, but he would try, if I would show him how.

This proved a hopeless task, and I finally gave it up. Jack dispatched an Indian runner to
Fort Yuma, ninety miles or more down river, begging Captain Ernest to send us a soldier-cook
on the next boat.

This was a long time to wait; the inconveniences were intolerable: there were our four selves,
Patrocina and Jesusita, the soldier-clerk and the Indian, to be provided for: Patrocina prepared
carni seca with peppers, a little boy came around with cuajada, a delicious sweet curd cheese,
and I tried my hand at bread, following out Ellen's instructions.

How often I said to my husband. "If we must live in this wretched place, let's give up civilization
and live as the Mexicans do! They are the only happy beings around here.

"Look at them, as you pass along the street! At nearly any hour in the day you can see them,
sitting under their ramada, their backs propped against the wall of their casa, calmly smoking
cigarettes and gazing at nothing, with a look of ineffable contentment upon their features!
They surely have solved the problem of life!"

But we seemed never to be able to free ourselves from the fetters of civilization, and so I
struggled on.

One evening after dusk, I went into the kitchen, opened the kitchen closet door to take out
some dish, when clatter! bang! down fell the bread-pan, and a shower of other tin ware, and
before I could fairly get my breath, out jumped two young squaws and without deigning to glance
at me they darted across the kitchen and leaped out the window like two frightened fawn.

They had on nothing but their birthday clothes and as I was somewhat startled at the sight
of them, I stood transfixed, my eyes gazing at the open space through which they had flown.

Charley, the Indian, was in the corral, filling the ollas, and, hearing the commotion, came
in and saw just the disappearing heels of the two squaws.

I said, very sternly: "Charley, how came those squaws in my closet?" He looked very much ashamed
and said: "Oh, me tell you: bad man go to kill 'em; I hide 'em."

"Well," said I, "do not hide any more girls in this casa! You savez that?"

He bowed his head in acquiescence.

I afterwards learned that one of the girls was his sister.

The weather was now fairly comfortable, and in the evenings we sat under the ramada, in front
of the house, and watched the beautiful pink glow which spread over the entire heavens and
illuminated the distant mountains of Lower California. I have never seen anything like that
wonderful color, which spread itself over sky, river and desert. For an hour, one could have
believed oneself in a magician's realm.

At about this time, the sad-eyed Patrocina found it expedient to withdraw into the green valleys
of Lower California, to recuperate for a few months. With the impish Jesusita in her arms,
she bade me a mournful good-bye. Worthless as she was from the standpoint of civilized morals,
I was attached to her and felt sorry to part with her.

Then I took a Mexican woman from Chihuahua. Now the Chihuahuans hold their heads high, and
it was rather with awe that I greeted the tall middle-aged Chihuahuan lady who came to be our
little son's nurse. Her name was Angela. "Angel of light," I thought, how fortunate I am to
get her!

After a few weeks, Fisher observed that the whole village was eating Ferris ham, an unusual
delicacy in Ehrenberg, and that the Goldwaters' had sold none. So he suggested that our commissary
storehouse be looked to; and it was found that a dozen hams or so had been withdrawn from their
canvas covers, the covers stuffed with straw, and hung back in place. Verily the Chihuahuan
was adding to her pin-money in a most unworthy fashion, and she had to go. After that, I was
left without a nurse. My little son was now about nine months old.

Milk began to be more plentiful at this season, and, with my sister's advice and help, I decided
to make the one great change in a baby's life i.e., to take him from his mother. Modern methods
were unknown then, and we had neither of us any experience in these matters and there was no
doctor in the place.

The result was, that both the baby and myself were painfully and desperately ill and not knowing
which way to turn for aid, when, by a lucky turn of Fortune's wheel, our good, dear Doctor
Henry Lippincott came through Ehrenberg on his way out to the States. Once more he took care
of us, and it is to him that I believe I owe my life.

Captain Ernest sent us a cook from Yuma, and soon some officers came for the duck-shooting.
There were thousands of ducks around the various lagoons in the neighborhood, and the sport
was rare. We had all the ducks we could eat.

Then came an earthquake, which tore and rent the baked earth apart. The ground shivered, the
windows rattled, the birds fell close to the ground and could not fly, the stove-pipes fell
to the floor, the thick walls cracked and finally, the earth rocked to and fro like some huge
thing trying to get its balance.

It was in the afternoon. My sister and I were sitting with our needle-work in the living-room.
Little Harry was on the floor, occupied with some toys. I was paralyzed with fear; my sister
did not move. We sat gazing at each other, scarce daring to breathe, expecting every instant
the heavy walls to crumble about our heads. The earth rocked and rocked, and rocked again,
then swayed and swayed and finally was still. My sister caught Harry in her arms, and then
Jack and Willie came breathlessly in. "Did you feel it?" said Jack.

"Did we feel it!" said I, scornfully.

Sarah was silent, and I looked so reproachfully at Jack, that he dropped his light tone, and
said: "It was pretty awful. We were in the Goldwaters' store, when suddenly it grew dark and
the lamps above our heads began to rattle and swing, and we all rushed out into the middle
of the street and stood, rather dazed, for we scarcely knew what had happened; then we hurried
home. But it's all over now."

"I do not believe it," said I; "we shall have more"; and, in fact, we did have two light shocks
in the night, but no more followed, and the next morning, we recovered, in a measure, from
our fright and went out to see the great fissures in that treacherous crust of earth upon which
Ehrenberg was built.

I grew afraid, after that, and the idea that the earth would eventually open and engulf us
all took possession of my mind.

My health, already weakened by shocks and severe strains, gave way entirely. I, who had gloried
in the most perfect health, and had a constitution of iron, became an emaciated invalid.

From my window, one evening at sundown, I saw a weird procession moving slowly along towards
the outskirts of the village. It must be a funeral, thought I, and it flashed across my mind
that I had never seen the burying-ground.

A man with a rude cross led the procession. Then came some Mexicans with violins and guitars.
After the musicians, came the body of the deceased, wrapped in a white cloth, borne on a bier
by friends, and followed by the little band of weeping women, with black ribosos folded about
their heads. They did not use coffins at Ehrenberg, because they had none, I suppose.

The next day I asked Jack to walk to the grave-yard with me. He postponed it from day to day,
but I insisted upon going. At last, he took me to see it.

There was no enclosure, but the bare, sloping, sandy place was sprinkled with graves, marked
by heaps of stones, and in some instances by rude crosses of wood, some of which had been wrenched
from their upright position by the fierce sand-storms. There was not a blade of grass, a tree,
or a flower. I walked about among these graves, and close beside some of them I saw deep holes
and whitnened bones. I was quite ignorant or unthinking, and asked what the holes were.

"It is where the coyotes and wolves come in the nights," said Jack.

My heart sickened as I thought of these horrors, and I wondered if Ehrenberg held anything
in store for me worse than what I had already seen. We turned away from this unhallowed grave-yard
and walked to our quarters. I had never known much about "nerves," but I began to see spectres
in the night, and those ghastly graves with their coyote-holes were ever before me. The place
was but a stone's throw from us, and the uneasy spirits from these desecrated graves began
to haunt me. I could not sit alone on the porch at night, for they peered through the lattice,
and mocked at me, and beckoned. Some had no heads, some no arms, but they pointed or nodded
towards the grewsome burying-ground: "You'll be with us soon, you'll be with us soon."

CHAPTER XXII. RETURN TO THE STATES

I dream of the east wind's tonic, Of the breakers' stormy roar, And the peace of the inner
harbor With the long low Shimmo shore.

* * * *

I long for the buoy-bell's tolling When the north wind brings from afar The smooth, green,
shining billows, To be churned into foam on the bar.

Oh! for the sea-gulls' screaming As they swoop so bold and free! Oh! for the fragrant commons,
And the glorious open sea!--

For the restful great contentment, For the joy that is never known Till past the jetty and
Brant Point Light The Islander comes to his own!

--MARY E. STARBUCK.

"I must send you out. I see that you cannot stand it here another month," said Jack one day;
and so he bundled us onto the boat in the early spring, and took us down the river to meet
the ocean steamer.

There was no question about it this time, and I well knew it.

I left my sister and her son in Ehrenberg, and I never saw my nephew again. A month later,
his state of health became so alarming that my sister took him to San Francisco. He survived
the long voyage, but died there a few weeks later at the home of my cousin.

At Fort Yuma we telegraphed all over the country for a nurse, but no money would tempt those
Mexican women to face an ocean voyage. Jack put me on board the old "Newbern" in charge of
the Captain, waited to see our vessel under way, then waved good-bye from the deck of the "Gila,"
and turned his face towards his post and duty. I met the situation as best I could, and as
I have already described a voyage on this old craft, I shall not again enter into details.
There was no stewardess on board, and all arrangements were of the crudest description. Both
my child and I were seasick all the way, and the voyage lasted sixteen days. Our misery was
very great.

The passengers were few in number, only a couple of Mexican miners who had been prospecting,
an irritable old Mexican woman, and a German doctor, who was agreeable but elusive.

The old Mexican woman sat on the deck all day, with her back against the stateroom door; she
was a picturesque and indolent figure.

There was no diversion, no variety; my little boy required constant care and watching. The
days seemed endless. Everbody bought great bunches of green bananas at the ports in Mexico,
where we stopped for passengers.

The old woman was irritable, and one day when she saw the agreeable German doctor pulling bananas
from the bunch which she had hung in the sun to ripen, she got up muttering "Carramba," and
shaking her fist in his face. He appeased her wrath by offering her, in the most fluent Spanish,
some from his own bunch when they should be ripe.

Such were my surroundings on the old "Newbern." The German doctor was interesting, and I loved
to talk with him, on days when I was not seasick, and to read the letters which he had received
from his family, who were living on their Rittergut (or landed estates) in Prussia.

He amused me by tales of his life at a wretched little mining village somewhere about fifty
miles from Ehrenberg, and I was always wondering how he came to have lived there.

He had the keenest sense of humor, and as I listened to the tales of his adventures and miraculous
escapes from death at the hands of these desperate folk, I looked in his large laughing blue
eyes and tried to solve the mystery.

For that he was of noble birth and of ancient family there was no doubt. There were the letters,
there was the crest, and here was the offshoot of the family. I made up my mind that he was
a ne'er-do-weel and a rolling stone. He was elusive, and, beyond his adventures, told me nothing
of himself. It was some time after my arrival in San Francisco that I learned more about him.

Now, after we rounded Cape St. Lucas, we were caught in the long heavy swell of the Pacific
Ocean, and it was only at intervals that my little boy and I could leave our stateroom. The
doctor often held him while I ran below to get something to eat, and I can never forget his
kindness; and if, as I afterward heard in San Francisco, he really had entered the "Gate of
a hundred sorrows," it would perhaps best explain his elusiveness, his general condition, and
his sometimes dazed expression.

A gentle and kindly spirit, met by chance, known through the propinquity of a sixteen days'
voyage, and never forgotten.

Everything comes to an end, however interminable it may seem, and at last the sharp and jagged
outlines of the coast began to grow softer and we approached the Golden Gate.

The old "Newbern," with nothing in her but ballast, rolled and lurched along, through the bright
green waters of the outer bar. I stood leaning against the great mast, steadying myself as
best I could, and the tears rolled down my face; for I saw the friendly green hills, and before
me lay the glorious bay of San Francisco. I had left behind me the deserts, the black rocks,
the burning sun, the snakes, the scorpions, the centipedes, the Indians and the Ehrenberg graveyard;
and so the tears flowed, and I did not try to stop them; they were tears of joy.

The custom officers wanted to confiscate the great bundles of Mexican cigarettes they found
in my trunk, but "No," I told them, "they were for my own use." They raised their eyebrows,
gave me one look, and put them back into the trunk.

My beloved California relatives met us, and took care of us for a fortnight, and when I entered
a Pullman car for a nine days' journey to my old home, it seemed like the most luxurious comfort,
although I had a fourteen-months-old child in my arms, and no nurse. So does everything in
this life go by comparison.

Arriving in Boston, my sister Harriet met me at the train, and as she took little Harry from
my arms she cried: "Where did you get that sunbonnet? Now the baby can't wear that in Boston!"

Of course we were both thinking hard of all that had happened to me since we parted, on the
morning after my wedding, two years before, and we were so overcome with the joy of meeting,
that if it had not been for the baby's white sunbonnet, I do not know what kind of a scene
we might have made. That saved the situation, and after a few days of rest and necessary shopping,
we started for our old home in Nantucket. Such a welcome as the baby and I had from my mother
and father and all old friends!

But I saw sadness in their faces, and I heard it in their voices, for no one thought I could
possibly live. I felt, however, sure it was not too late. I knew the East wind's tonic would
not fail me, its own child.

Stories of our experiences and misfortunes were eagerly listened to, by the family, and betwixt
sighs and laughter they declared they were going to fill some boxes which should contain everything
necessary for comfort in those distant places. So one room in our old house was set apart for
this; great boxes were brought, and day by day various articles, useful, ornamental, and comfortable,
and precious heirlooms of silver and glass, were packed away in them. It was the year of 1876,
the year of the great Centennial, at Philadelphia. Everybody went, but it had no attractions
for me. I was happy enough, enjoying the health-giving air and the comforts of an Eastern home.
I wondered that I had ever complained about anything there, or wished to leave that blissful spot.

The poorest person in that place by the sea had more to be thankful for, in my opinion, than
the richest people in Arizona. I felt as if I must cry it out from the house-tops. My heart
was thankful every minute of the day and night, for every breath of soft air that I breathed,
for every bit of fresh fish that I ate, for fresh vegetables, and for butter--for gardens,
for trees, for flowers, for the good firm earth beneath my feet. I wrote the man on detached
service that I should never return to Ehrenberg.

After eight months, in which my health was wholly restored, I heard the good news that Captain
Corliss had applied for his first lieutenant, and I decided to join him at once at Camp MacDowell.

Although I had not wholly forgotten that Camp MacDowell had been called by very bad names during
our stay at Fort Whipple, at the time that Jack decided on the Ehrenberg detail, I determined
to brave it, in all its unattractiveness, isolation and heat, for I knew there was a garrison
and a Doctor there, and a few officers' families, I knew supplies were to be obtained and the
ordinary comforts of a far-off post. Then too, in my summer in the East I had discovered that
I was really a soldier's wife and I must go back to it all. To the army with its glitter and
its misery, to the post with its discomforts, to the soldiers, to the drills, to the bugle-calls,
to the monotony, to the heat of Southern Arizona, to the uniform and the stalwart Captains
and gay Lieutenants who wore it, I felt the call and I must go.

CHAPTER XXIII. BACK TO ARIZONA

The last nails were driven in the precious boxes, and I started overland in November with my
little son, now nearly two years old.

"Overland" in those days meant nine days from New York to San Francisco. Arriving in Chicago,
I found it impossible to secure a section on the Pullman car so was obliged to content myself
with a lower berth. I did not allow myself to be disappointed.

On entering the section, I saw an enormous pair of queer cow hide shoes, the very queerest
shoes I had ever seen, lying on the floor, with a much used travelling bag. I speculated a
good deal on the shoes, but did not see the owner of them until several hours later, when a
short thick-set German with sandy close-cut beard entered and saluted me politely. "You are
noticing my shoes perhaps Madame?"

"Yes" I said, involuntarily answering him in German.

His face shone with pleasure and he explained to me that they were made in Russia and he always
wore them when travelling. "What have we," I thought, "an anarchist?"

But with the inexperience and fearlessness of youth, I entered into a most delightful conversation
in German with him. I found him rather an extraordinarily well educated gentleman and he said
he lived in Nevada, but had been over to Vienna to place his little boy at a military school,
"as," he said, "there is nothing like a uniform to give a boy self-respect." He said his wife
had died several months before. I congratulated myself that the occupant of the upper berth
was at least a gentleman.

The next day, as we sat opposite each other chatting, always in German, he paused, and fixing
his eyes rather steadily upon me he remarked: "Do you think I put on mourning when my wife
died? no indeed, I put on white kid gloves and had a fiddler and danced at the grave. All this
mourning that people have is utter nonsense."

I was amazed at the turn his conversation had taken and sat quite still, not knowing just what
to say or to do.

After awhile, he looked at me steadily, and said, very deferentially, "Madame, the spirit of
my dead wife is looking at me from out your eyes."

By this time I realized that the man was a maniac, and I had always heard that one must agree
with crazy people, so I nodded, and that seemed to satisfy him, and bye and bye after some
minutes which seemed like hours to me, he went off to the smoking room.

The tension was broken and I appealed to a very nice looking woman who happened to be going
to some place in Nevada near which this Doctor lived, and she said, when I told her his name,
"Why, yes, I heard of him before I left home, he lives in Silver City, and at the death of
his wife, he went hopelessly insane, but," she added, "he is harmless, I believe."

This was a nice fix, to be sure, and I staid over in her section all day, and late that night
the Doctor arrived at the junction where he was to take another train. So I slept in peace,
after a considerable agitation.

There is nothing like experience to teach a young woman how to travel alone.

In San Francisco I learned that I could now go as far as Los Angeles by rail, thence by steamer
to San Diego, and so on by stage to Fort Yuma, where my husband was to meet me with an ambulance
and a wagon.

I was enchanted with the idea of avoiding the long sea-trip down the Pacific coast, but sent
my boxes down by the Steamer "Montana," sister ship of the old "Newbern," and after a few days'
rest in San Francisco, set forth by rail for Los Angeles. At San Pedro, the port of Los Angeles,
we embarked for San Diego. It was a heavenly night. I sat on deck enjoying the calm sea, and
listening to the romantic story of Lieutenant Philip Reade, then stationed at San Diego. He
was telling the story himself, and I had never read or heard of anything so mysterious or so
tragic.

Then, too, aside from the story, Mr. Reade was a very good-looking and chivalrous young army
officer. He was returning to his station in San Diego, and we had this pleasant opportunity
to renew what had been a very slight acquaintance.

The calm waters of the Pacific, with their long and gentle swell, the pale light of the full
moon, our steamer gliding so quietly along, the soft air of the California coast, the absence
of noisy travellers, these made a fit setting for the story of his early love and marriage,
and the tragic mystery which surrounded the death of his young bride.

All the romance which lived and will ever live in me was awake to the story, and the hours
passed all too quickly.

But a cry from my little boy in the near-by deck stateroom recalled me to the realities of
life and I said good-night, having spent one of the most delightful evenings I ever remember.

Mr. Reade wears now a star on his shoulder, and well earned it is, too. I wonder if he has
forgotten how he helped to bind up my little boy's finger which had been broken in an accident
on the train from San Francisco to Los Angeles? or how he procured a surgeon for me on our
arrival there, and got a comfortable room for us at the hotel? or how he took us to drive (with
an older lady for a chaperon), or how he kindly cared for us until we were safely on the boat
that evening? If I had ever thought chivalry dead, I learned then that I had been mistaken.

San Diego charmed me, as we steamed, the next morning, into its shining bay. But as our boat
was two hours late and the stage-coach was waiting, I had to decline Mr. Reade's enchanting
offers to drive us around the beautiful place, to show me the fine beaches, and his quarters,
and all other points of interest in this old town of Southern California.

Arizona, not San Diego, was my destination, so we took a hasty breakfast at the hotel and boarded
the stage, which, filled with passengers, was waiting before the door.

The driver waited for no ceremonies, muttered something about being late, cracked his whip,
and away we went. I tried to stow myself and my little boy and my belongings away comfortably,
but the road was rough and the coach swayed, and I gave it up. There were passengers on top
of the coach, and passengers inside the coach. One woman who was totally deaf, and some miners
and blacksmiths, and a few other men, the flotsam and jetsam of the Western countries, who
come from no one knoweth whence, and who go, no one knoweth whither, who have no trade or profession
and are sometimes even without a name.

They seemed to want to be kind to me. Harry got very stage-sick and gave us much trouble, and
they all helped me to hold him. Night came. I do not remember that we made any stops at all;
if we did, I have forgotten them. The night on that stage-coach can be better imagined than
described. I do not know of any adjectives that I could apply to it. Just before dawn, we stopped
to change horses and driver, and as the day began to break, we felt ourselves going down somewhere
at a terrific speed.

The great Concord coach slipped and slid and swayed on its huge springs as we rounded the curves.

The road was narrow and appeared to be cut out of solid rock, which seemed to be as smooth
as soapstone; the four horses were put to their speed, and down and around and away we went.
I drew in my breath as I looked out and over into the abyss on my left. Death and destruction
seemed to be the end awaiting us all. Everybody was limp, when we reached the bottom--that
is, I was limp, and I suppose the others were. The stage-driver knew I was frightened, because
I sat still and looked white and he came and lifted me out. He lived in a small cabin at the
bottom of the mountain; I talked with him some. "The fact is," he said, "we are an hour late
this morning; we always make it a point to 'do it' before dawn, so the passengers can't see
anything; they are almost sure to get stampeded if we come down by daylight."

I mentioned this road afterwards in San Francisco, and learned that it was a famous road, cut
out of the side of a solid mountain of rock; long talked of, long desired, and finally built,
at great expense, by the state and the county together; that they always had the same man to
drive over it, and that they never did it by daylight. I did not inquire if there had ever
been any accidents. I seemed to have learned all I wanted to know about it.

After a little rest and a breakfast at a sort of roadhouse, a relay of horses was taken, and
we travelled one more day over a flat country, to the end of the stage-route. Jack was to meet
me. Already from the stage I had espied the post ambulance and two blue uniforms. Out jumped
Major Ernest and Jack. I remember thinking how straight and how well they looked. I had forgotten
really how army men did look, I had been so long away.

And now we were to go to Fort Yuma and stay with the Wells' until my boxes, which had been
sent around by water on the steamer "Montana," should arrive. I had only the usual thirty pounds
allowance of luggage with me on the stage, and it was made up entirely of my boy's clothing,
and an evening dress I had worn on the last night of my stay in San Francisco.

Fort Yuma was delightful at this season (December), and after four or five days spent most
enjoyably, we crossed over one morning on the old rope ferryboat to Yuma City, to inquire at
the big country store there of news from the Gulf. There was no bridge then over the Colorado.

The merchant called Jack to one side and said something to him in a low tone. I was sure it
concerned the steamer, and I said: "what it is?"

Then they told me that news had just been received from below, that the "Montana" had been
burned to the water's edge in Guaymas harbor, and everything on board destroyed; the passengers
had been saved with much difficulty, as the disaster occurred in the night.

I had lost all the clothes I had in the world--and my precious boxes were gone. I scarcely
knew how to meet the calamity.

Jack said: "Don't mind, Mattie; I'm so thankful you and the boy were not on board the ship;
the things are nothing, no account at all."

"But," said I, "you do not understand. I have no clothes except what I have on, and a party
dress. Oh! what shall I do?" I cried.

The merchant was very sympathetic and kind, and Major Wells said, "Let's go home and tell Fanny;
maybe she can suggest something."

I turned toward the counter, and bought some sewing materials, realizing that outside of my
toilet articles and my party dress all my personal belongings were swept away. I was in a country
where there were no dressmakers, and no shops; I was, for the time being, a pauper, as far
as clothing was concerned.

When I got back to Mrs. Wells I broke down entirely; she put her arms around me and said: "I've
heard all about it; I know just how you must feel; now come in my room, and we'll see what
can be done."

