She had the habit of then collecting around her her most intimate ladies and a few friends,
and giving them tea.  Gaming was entirely precluded from these nocturnal reunions, of which
conversation was the only charm. This conversation of the highest circles of society was a
most agreeable relaxation to the Empress; and this select circle assembled frequently without
the Emperor being aware of it, and was, in fact, a very innocent entertainment.  Nevertheless,
some obliging person was so indiscreet as to make the Emperor a report concerning these assemblies,
containing matters which roused his displeasure.  He expressed his dissatisfaction to the Empress
Josephine, and from that time she retired at the same time as the Emperor.

These teas were then abandoned, and all persons attached to the service of the Emperor received
orders not to sit up after the Emperor retired.

As well as I remember, this is how I heard his Majesty express himself on the occasion.  "When
the masters are asleep, the valets should retire to bed; and when the masters are awake, the
valets should be on their feet." These words produced the intended effect; and that very evening,
as soon as the Emperor was in bed, all at the palace retired, and at half-past eleven no one
was awake but the sentinels.

By degrees, as always occurs, the strict observance of the Emperor's orders was gradually relaxed,
still without the Empress daring to resume her nocturnal gatherings.  The words of his Majesty
were not forgotten, however, and were well remembered by M. Colas, concierge of the pavilion
of Flora.

One morning about four o'clock, M. Colas heard an unaccustomed noise, and a continued movement
in the interior of the palace, and supposed from this that the Emperor was awake, in which
he was not mistaken.  He dressed in all haste, and had been ten minutes at his post when the
Emperor, descending the staircase with Marshal Duroc, perceived him. His Majesty usually took
pleasure in showing that he remarked exactness in fulfilling his orders; therefore he stopped
a moment, and said to M. Colas, "Ah! already awake, Colas?"--"Yes, Sire; I have not forgotten
that valets should be on foot when the masters are awake."--"You have a good memory, Colas;
an excellent thing."

All this was very well, and the day began for M. Colas under most favorable auspices; but in
the evening the medal of the morning was obliged to show the opposite side.  The Emperor went
that morning to visit the works on the canal of the Ourcq. The
moved but her handkerchief from her face and quickly ruled the children grimly. Heartless They
had struggled and now is no time to eat, they should go to hell and when once one was coming,
she'll take the broom.

Lizzi was now sad. Godforsaken tired and walked them around the house, from room in the hallway,
into the yard. No one cared about her and the heart was suddenly hard to them as lead. Peter suggested
that they wanted to go into memory, and the girl was willed. It was as if she throws at him
now and declare themselves ready to him in all things obey.

She was so anxious to courage.

A gray, crepuscular light there was in memory and a dry, humid air. This gives It tarantulas, newts,
thought Peter, and he was afraid to act loud. All crates were closed, except one, who was in the
back, between two fires. As the children went inside, and Lizzi spread a brown, perforated
top, in a big box located on the ground, and both sat on them, pointed the way into the Angle
between the roof and floor inside. And the rustle and drumming of rain on the roof was to listen
very special, and soon Lizzi said that she was afraid. But Peter was up and tried to play
the brave protector, although he was very anxious to courage and he bitterly regretted his
gone up. He now stood and looked at Dachfensterchen out on the town, on the broad, level land.
And the evening was approaching and there in the West The sky was a deep dark red ribbon hemmed.
No noise came up to here from the throng of houses, and the towers, which peaked, it seemed
almost like stalk without flowers. Now began the back of the gable to the pigeons coo, and more
and more drumming the rain on the slate roof and dripped down into the gutter. flowed over
the small window the water flows so that they could no longer see the sky. Peter did not dare
to to move more, all in the round he had suddenly become scary, and he prayed to God help in this
distress Lizzi began to cry softly, as he went but to comfort her and he went back to her. She wrapped
her arms around his neck and laid her cheek on his own. Peter closed his eyes, because suddenly
it had become quite dark, and he did not see inside in the darkness, for he saw death in front
of him flesh stand. And then came the love God and looked sternly down at Peter. It occurred to
him that he had not even done his homework, and he was like a gentle rain dimly aware that it
is not good to have such a dreamer. He said good words about the little timid girl whose body
turned trembling to him, and he kissed her on the Mouth. Then he said they now wanted to go
back down, he feared no more. Since wiping Lizzi the tears from her cheeks, and followed him,
occasionally uttering a low cry, if any unusual sound was heard. As soon as she was down, so it
was for her, as if nothing had happened. She asked Peter to play with her and played with-guessing.
As they fought, which name is more beautiful: Regina or Agnes. Peter claimed, Aunt Regina loud
ugly, but Aunt Agnes, it was wonderful, wonderful is this Lizzi, however, found that thus the honor
of their mother was attacked and pouted with Peter.

The next day, Peter came into the living room to read.

When he saw Aunt Regina, she smiled full of sadness and kindness, and she said that her mother
was very ill.  It might well have been thought that this sum would be sufficient
for these gentlemen to live most comfortably; but this was not the case.  For if they were
assiduous during the hours of labor, they were not less so during those devoted to pleasure;
whence it arose that the second quarter had hardly passed before the whole year's salary was
spent, part of it in gambling, and the rest among low companions.

Among the two secretaries added to the Emperor's service, there was one especially who had
contracted so many debts, and whose creditors were so pitiless, that, had there been no other
reason, he would infallibly have been dismissed from the private cabinet if the report of this
had reached his Majesty's ears.

After passing an entire night reflecting on his embarrassing position, searching his imagination
to secure some means of obtaining the sum necessary to satisfy those creditors who were most
importunate, the new spendthrift sought distraction in work, and went to his desk at five o'clock
in the morning in order to drive away his painful thoughts; not thinking that at this hour
any one would hear him, and while working began to whistle La Linotte with all his might. 
Now, this morning, as often before, the Emperor had already been working a whole hour in his
cabinet, and had just gone out as the young man entered, and, hearing this whistling, immediately
returned.

"Already here, Monsieur," said his Majesty.  "Zounds!  Why, that is remarkable!  Maret should
be well satisfied with you.  What is your salary?"--"Sire, I have eight thousand francs a year,
and besides am boarded and lodged in the palace."--"That is well, Monsieur, and you ought to
be very happy."

The young man, seeing that his Majesty was in a very good humor, thought that fortune had sent
him a favorable opportunity of being relieved of his embarrassment, and resolved to inform
the Emperor of his trying situation.  "Alas, Sire!" said he, "no doubt I ought to be happy,
but I am not."--"Why is that?"--"Sire, I must confess to your Majesty that I have so many English
to carry, and besides I have to support an old father, two sisters, and a brother."--"You are
only doing your duty. But what do you mean by your English?  Are you supporting them also?"--
"No, Sire; but it is they who have fed my pleasures, with the money they have lent me, and
all who have creditors now call them the English."-- "Stop! stop, Monsieur!  What!  you have
creditors, and in spite of your large salary you have made debts!  That is enough, Monsieur. I've dragged
out a small table and now sit hidden among green bushes. To my right, the yellow ornamental currant
scent of cloves, left Ligusterstrauch over me submit a Norway maple and a young, slender chestnut tree to
each other their broad, green hands, and me rushing slowly with white sheets, the large, severe
and mild white poplar . dance on the paper on which I write, light shade of the leaves with bright
squiggles of the sun, rain and damp of the leaves will drop me to the face and hands and a drop.
In the prison church is worship, dull organ penetrates out indistinct, covered by the rustling
of the trees and the bright choir of birds that are awake all day, in the distance calls of the cuckoo.
As it is beautiful, I'm happy, you already feel almost the locust mood - the full, lush ripeness
of summer and the living noise, do you know the scene in Wagner's Die Meistersinger, the People's
scene, where a colorful crowd claps his hands: St. John's! St. John's! and suddenly everything starts
to dance a waltz Biedermeier? In this atmosphere one could come in the next few days. - What
I've all experienced yesterday! I must tell you. Morning I was in the bathroom at the window a large
peacock. It was probably a few days in there and had fluttered matt on the hard disk to death,
there were only weak signs of life with the wings. When I noticed it, I pulled myself trembling with
impatience again, climbed on the window and took it gently in his hands - it struggled no more, and
I thought it was probably already dead, I sat there with me on the ledge outside the window, so it
came to himself, and as suggested in the Lebensflämmchen still weak, but it sat silent, then
I put him in front of the probe a few flowers open, so it had something to eat, just sang in
front of the window bright and exuberant garden of scoffers, that it sounded, I involuntarily
said aloud, listen, as the bird sings funny, but because you must also return the little life!
I even had to laugh at this address to the half-dead peacock eye and thought, lost words! But
no - after half an hour, recovered the animal, slipped out a bit first and forth and finally flew
away slowly! As I was looking forward to the rescue! That was an
experience.

Of
course afternoon I went back into the garden where I am early by clock 8 to 12 (where one is calling
me to eat) and again from 3 6 I waited for the sun, I had the feeling that she must, she must
still show yesterday. But it was not, and I was sad.

I walked about the garden and looked at the gentle breezes blow something strange: on the silver
poplars grow thin the over-ripe kitty and her seed fluff flew round about, filled the air like snowflakes
that covered the earth and the whole yard, it looked so ghostly, such as the Silver fluttered down around!
The silver poplar blooms later than any other cat carrier, and thanks to this lush Samenausstreuung
it spreads very far, their little shoots sprouting like weeds in every crack of the wall or between
stones.

Then I was about 6, as always, locked up again, sat sadly with a dull pressure in the head at the
window, because it was close, and looked up where cheerful among white,
fluffy clouds on pastel blue background at dizzying heights, the swallows
around shooting and to cut their pointed wings, the air seemed like
scissors.

Soon, however, darkened the sky, all was silent, and there was a thunderstorm with heavy rain
and two crashing thunder, which shook everything. It was an image that remains unforgettable
to me. The storm had now more dispersed, the sky was thick gray monochrome, a dull, pale, ghostly twilight
fell suddenly to the ground, it was like hanging thick gray veil of rain trickled softly and evenly
on the leaves, the lightning flashed again, purple on the other in the leaden gray on, and a
distant rumble of thunder rolled over again like last weak waves approaching a surf. And in the midst
of all this spooky mood struck suddenly in front of my window at the maple, the nightingale!
  Through the efforts of the marshal his name was promptly
struck out of the list of emigres; but he did not wish to re-enter the army, and yet was in
much need of a position. Having supported himself during his emigration by giving lessons in
French and Latin, he expressed a desire to obtain a position in the university.  "Well, my
colonel," said the marshal with his German accent, "I will take you at once to my friend M.
de Fontanes."  The marshal's carriage is soon at the door, and the respectful protector and
his protoge enter the apartments of the grand master of the university. M. de Fontanes hastens
to meet the marshal, who, I have been informed, made his presentation speech in this style:

"My dear friend, I present to you the Marquis of ----.

"He was my former captain, my good captain.  He would like to obtain a place in the university.
Ah!  he is not a man of nothing, a man of the Revolution like you and me.  He is my old captain,
the Marquis of ---- ." Finally the marshal closed by saying, "Ah, the good, excellent man!
I shall never forget that when I went for orders to my good captain, he never failed to say:
'Lefebvre, my child, pass on to the kitchen; go and get something to eat.'  Ah, my good, my
excellent captain!"

All the members of the imperial family had a great fondness for music, and especially the Italian;
but they were not musicians, and most of them sang as badly as his Majesty himself, with the
exception of the Princess Pauline, who had profited by the lessons of Blangini, and sang tolerably
well.  In respect of his voice, Prince Eugene showed himself worthy to be the adopted son of
the Emperor; for, though he was a musician and sang with fervor, it was not in such a manner
as to satisfy his auditors. In compensation, however, Prince Eugene's voice was magnificent
for commanding military evolutions, an advantage which Count Lobau and General Dorsenne also
possessed; and it was consequently always one of these whom his Majesty appointed to command
under his orders on great reviews.

