My First Cruise, and other stories, by W.H.G. Kingston.

There are four stories here, but it is not clear whether they are all by Kingston.  The first
one, which gives the book its name, certainly is, and possibly the third, "The Enchanted Gate".

The first story is a sort of diary or blog written by a young midshipman on his first voyage
to sea, to his brother who was still at school. There are all the usual incidents, including
swimming exercises.

The other stories are well outside the Kingston style, but are certainly amusing and worth
reading.  The book is quite short.

MY FIRST CRUISE, AND OTHER STORIES, BY W.H.G. KINGSTON.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 1.

NOTES FROM PRINGLE RUSHFORTH'S SEA LOG.

A LETTER TO BROTHER HARRY, AT ETON.

It has become a reality, dear Harry.  I feel very strange--a curious sensation in the throat,
just as if I was going to cry, and yet it is exactly what I have been longing for.  You know
better than any one how I had set my heart on going to sea, and yet I thought that I should
never manage it.  But, after all, here I am, really and truly a midshipman; at least a volunteer
of the first class, as we are called now.  The first time I put on my uniform, with my gold-band
cap and dirk, I could not help every now and then looking at the gold lace on my collar and
the buttons with the anchor and crown, and very pretty and nice they looked; and I do believe
that this half-reconciled poor mamma, and Fanny, and Mary, and dear little Emily to my going
when they saw me with them on.  I'll tell you how it all happened.  Uncle Tom came to stay
with us.  He had been at the Hall a week when, the very day before I was to go back to school,
while we were all at breakfast, he got a long official-looking letter.  No sooner had he torn
it open and glanced at its contents, than he jumped up and shook papa by the hand, then kissed
mamma, exclaiming, "They do acknowledge my services, and in a handsome way too, and they have
appointed me to the Juno intended for the South American station; the very ship I should have
chosen!  I must have Pringle with me.  No nonsense, Mary.  He wants to be a sailor, and a sailor
he shall be.  He's well fitted for it.  I'll have no denial. It's settled--that's all right."
(I had been telling him the day before how much I wanted to go to sea.)  He carried his point,
and set all the household preparing my kit, and then posted off for London, and rattled down
to Portsmouth to hoist his flag.  He is not a man to do things by halves.  In three days I
followed him.  The ship was nearly ready for sea.  Most of the officers had joined.  There
was only one vacancy, which I got.  Another captain had been appointed, who had been superseded,
and he had selected most of the officers.  Many of my messmates are good fellows, but of others
the less said about them the better, at least as far as I could judge from the way they behaved
when I first went into the berth.  We carry thirty-six guns.  There is the main deck, on which
most of them are placed, and the upper deck, which is open to the sky, and where all the ropes
lead, and where some guns are, and the lower deck, where we sleep in hammocks slung to the
beams, and where our berth is; that is the place where we live--our drawing-room, and parlour,
and study, and anything else you please. There is a table in the centre, and lockers all round,
and if you want to move about you have to get behind the other fellows' backs or over the table.
Under it are cases and hampers of all sorts, which the caterer has not unpacked.  He is an
old mate, and keeps us all in order. His name is Gregson.  I don't know whether I shall like
him.  He has been a great many years a midshipman; for a mate is only a passed midshipman who
wants to be a lieutenant, but can't.  He has no interest--nobody to help him on--so there he
is growling and grumbling from morning to night, declaring that he'll cut the service, and
go and join the Russians, and make his country rue the day; but he doesn't, and I believe he
wouldn't, if they would make him an admiral and a count off-hand.  My chief friend they call
Dicky Snookes.  His real name, though, is Algernon Godolphin Stafford, on which he rather prides
himself.  This was found out, so it was voted that he should be re-christened, and not be allowed
under dreadful pains and penalties to assume his proper appellation in the berth; so no one
thinks of calling him anything but Snookes.  He is getting not to mind it, which I am glad
of, as he does not seem a bad fellow, and is up to fun of all sorts. There is another fellow
who is always called Lord Jones or My Lord, because he is as unlike what you would suppose
a nobleman to be as possible.  Then there is Polly.  His real name is Skeffington Scoulding,
which was voted too long, so, as poor fellow he has lost an eye, he was dubbed Polyphemus,
which was soon turned into Polly.  I haven't got a new name yet, so I hope to stick to my own.
I have picked up a good many more bits of information during the three days I have been on
board, but I have not time to tell them now.  I will though, don't fear. I hope to be put in
a watch when we get to sea.  I don't mean inside a silver case, to go on tick!--ha!--ha!--ha!
but to keep watch under a lieutenant, to see what the ship is about, and to keep her out of
scrapes.  Good-bye, dear old fellow, I'll tell you more when I can.-- Your affect brother,
Pringle Rushforth.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 2.

NOTES FROM MY LOG.

The capstern went round with a merry tune--the boatswain's whistle sounded shrilly along the
decks with a magic effect--the anchor was hove up--the sails were let fall and but a few minutes
had passed, after the captain gave the word of command, before the ship, under a wide spread
of snowy canvas, was standing down the Solent towards the Needle passage.  It was a lovely
summer's day, the sky was blue and so was the water, and the land looked green and bright,
and the paint was so fresh, and the deck so white, and the officers in their glittering uniform
had so polished an appearance, and the men in their white trousers and shirts with worked collars
and natty hats, looked so neat and active as they sprang nimbly aloft, or flew about the decks,
that I felt very proud of the frigate and everything about her, and very glad that I had come
to sea.  To be sure matters below were not quite in the same order just then.  Still prouder
was I when we saluted the Queen, who was at Osborne--firing away first on one side and then
on the other, with a flash and a roar, and a huge puff of smoke.  We passed out at the Needles
with the cheese-like castle of Hurst and its red ninepin-looking lighthouses on our right,
and a little further to the west on our right with the high cliffs of Alum Bay striped curiously
with coloured sand and three high-pointed rocks, wading out into the sea, as if wanting to
get across to the north shore.  These are the Needle rocks.  We had run the high white cliff
at the west end of the island out of sight before dark, and that, except a thin blue tint of
land away to the north-east, was the last I saw of the shores of dear old happy England.  I
daresay others felt as I did, but we all had so much to do that we hadn't time to talk about
it.  Dickey Snookes had been to sea already for a few months, and of course knew a great deal
more than I could--at least he said that he did, and on the strength of it offered to tell
me all about everything.  I thought I saw a twinkle in his eye, but his eyes always are twinkling,
so I did not suspect him of intending mischief.  We had some vegetables for dinner--some carrots
and turnips--and he asked me if I knew where they grew?  I said in some garden, I supposed.
"Of course, young 'un," he answered.  But you wouldn't suppose we had a garden up in our foretop,
where we grow all sorts of greens and other things.  You have not found your way there, I suspect.
I told him that I had not, and he said that I must go up there that very afternoon with him,
and that he would introduce me to the head-gardener, who was always up there looking after
the gooseberry bushes.  I knew that this was a joke, but still I wanted to see what he meant.
I said that I was ready at once, but he kept putting me off; and whenever he saw me going up
the rigging he always got some one to send for me or to call me, so that it was quite late
in the day before I succeeded in getting into the shrouds. The sun had now gone down, the sky
was overcast, and the sea had a leaden gloomy look--there was a swell also, and the ship rolled
so much from side to side, that, as I looked up and saw the mastheads forming arches in the
sky, I could not help fancying that I should be sent off when I got up there like a stone from
a sling, or an ancient catapult, right into the water.  The idea made me hold on very tight,
let me tell you; yet, as it would never do to give it up, on I went with my teeth pretty closely
clenched, and my eyes fixed on the top, which seemed to grow farther and farther away from
me, like Jack's bean-stalk.  At last I got up just under the top.  There are two ways of getting
on to it. One is by going along some ropes, called the futtock shrouds, when one hangs very
much as a fly does crawling along the ceiling.  I didn't like it, being up there all alone
in the gloom, for it was very different to climbing an apple-tree or the oak-tree at the bottom
of the lawn, with our nest on the top of it, where you and I used to sit and smoke cane cigars,
and fancy ourselves Istelson and Collingwood.  It wasn't pleasant going along the futtock shrouds,
and still less getting round them outside into the top, for as the ship rolled it felt as if
the mast was coming right down on the top of me.  I waited, however, holding on as a cat does
to a bough when you shake it, till the ship rolled over the other way, and then up I sprang
easily enough, and there I saw Dickey Snookes and Polly and My Lord all standing by the side
of the captain of the top, and grinning from ear to ear, as if they had some very good joke
in hand.  At first I thought that the captain of the top was a very important person, but I
soon found that he was only one of the seamen who is more active and smarter than the rest,
and takes command of those aloft.  "Here comes Midshipman Green," they all exclaimed, as they
saw my head appearing between the topmast shrouds. When I stood in the top they all insisted
on shaking hands with me, pinching my fingers terribly.  "And so you want to see our garden
up here," said Snookes; "you're the greenest thing we've got in it just now, let me tell you--ha!
ha! ha!"

I didn't see anything to laugh at; but I laughed just to keep them company, thinking the joke
was over.  However, before I knew what they were about they caught hold of me, and while one
blinded my eyes with a handkerchief, I found myself lashed up to the rigging with my arms and
legs spread out just like the eagle on a Russian flag.  Presently all was silent.  The ship
kept rolling backwards and forwards as before, and I began to feel somewhat queer in the region
of my waistband and right up to my throat, still I wouldn't cry out.  Suddenly I found the
bandage whisked off my eyes, and then I could see only one top man standing on the other side
of the top, but my messmates had disappeared.  I called to the man.  He touched his hat with
the greatest respect.  I told him to cast me loose.  "My orders were, sir, not to touch you,"
he answered. I argued the point.  "Well, sir, if as how you pays your footing, I'll do it,"
he replied; "but, sir, you'll take care that I'm not tied up and get two dozen for disobeying
orders."  I was ready to promise anything, for it was very unpleasant rolling about up there
in the dark.  After some hesitation and further talk, Tom Hansard, that was the topman's name,
cut off the lashings.  I gave him five shillings, all the money I had in my pocket.  "You'll
keep it secret, sir," said he.  "You'll say nothing against a poor fellow like me, sir; that
you won't, I know."  I promised him, and he then helped me down through the lubber's hole,
for as to going down outside, I couldn't just then have done it to save my life.  When I got
back to the berth, there were all my three messmates seated round the table, taking their tea,
and pretending to be very much astonished at hearing all which had happened to me.  Of course,
I said nothing about Tom Hansard, and they pretended that they could not make out how I had
got loose.  I found out, however, that the whole plan was arranged beforehand by Dicky Snookes
and my other messmates with the captain of the top, just to see what I was made of, and what
I would do, it being understood that he was to keep whatever he could get out of me. Had I
cried or made a fuss about the matter, or said that I would complain to my uncle, I should
have been looked upon as a regular sneak. The fellows hate telling of one another here just
as much as we did at school.  From the way I took the trick I believe they liked me better
than they did before.  Of course, all about the garden and the vegetables was nonsense, and
I should have been green to have believed it, which I didn't.  Away we went rolling along with
a westerly swell and a northerly wind, while many of the fellows in the berth were singing:
"There we lay, all the day, in the Bay of Biscay, O;" and others "Rule Britannia," old Gregson
not forgetting his standing joke of "Bless the old girl; I wish, while she was about it, that
she had ruled them straighter."  The very next morning the gale, of which the swell was the
forerunner, came down upon us with a sudden gust.  "All hands shorten sail," was shouted along
the decks.  The men flew aloft, that is, they climbed up so nimbly that they looked as if they
were flying, and they lay out on the yards to reef the sail.  Snookes had to go also, as he
was stationed in the foretop.  "Any greens up there to-day?"  I asked as he passed me, not
looking happy, for the ship was tumbling about, the spray was flying over us, and the wind
was howling terrifically in the rigging.  It was altogether very different to what it had been
on the previous evening.  Still poor Snookes had to go up. The boatswain's whistle and the
voices of the officers sounded loud above the gale, and so did the cries of the midshipmen.
I contrived to make myself heard, though, of course, I only sung out what I was told to say,
and wasn't always certain what would happen after I had said it, any more than does a person
in a fairy tale, who has got hold of some magic words and doesn't know what effect they will
produce.  The topgallantsails and royals were quickly furled--those are the sails highest up,
you know; and then the huge topsails came rattling down the masts, and the men lay out on the
yards and caught hold of them, as they were bulging out and flapping fearfully about, to reef
them.  One of the topmen, Tom Hansard, was at the weather yardarm, and had hold of the earing,
which isn't a bit like those gold things our sisters wear in their ears, but is a long rope
which helps to reef the sails.  Suddenly the ship gave a tremendous lurch, I heard a cry, I
looked up, and there was Tom Hansard hanging by one hand to the earing from the yard-arm, right
over the foaming ocean.  I felt as if I had swallowed a bucket full of snow.  I thought the
poor fellow must be dropped overboard, and so did everybody else, and some were running to
one of the boats to lower her to pick him up.  He swung fearfully about from side to side.
No human power could save him.  I was watching to see him drop, when he made a great effort,
and springing up, he caught the rope with his other hand.  Still he was only a degree better
off.  Fancy dangling away at the end of a thin rope, jerked backwards and forwards high up
in the air, with certain death were he to fall on board, and very small prospect of escape
if he fell into the foaming, tumbling sea, through which the ship was flying at the rate of
some ten knots an hour.  I felt inclined to shriek out in sympathy, for I am sure that I should
have shrieked out, and very loudly too, had I been up there in his place.  I felt sure that
he would come down when I saw two of the topmen going out to the end of the yard-arm and stretching
out their arms towards him to help him.  He saw them, and began to climb up the thin rope till
they could catch hold of his jacket, then up they pulled him, though the sails flapping about
very nearly tore him out of their hands.  They held him on to the yard for a minute till he
could recover himself, and then he scrambled in on to the top.  There was a general shout fore
and aft when he was safe.  Another man went to the weather earing, and three reefs were taken
in the topsails.  I heard the first lieutenant observe to Uncle Tom that he was very glad to
get the ship snug at last; but I cannot say that I thought her snug, or anything snug about
her, for there we were among clouds of sleet and spray, tumbling and rolling about in that
undignified way in which I had not thought it possible so fine a frigate could have been tumbled
and rolled about.  It brought down the ship a peg or two in my estimation, and took the shine
out of many of us, let me tell you.  That fellow Snookes was continually offering me a lump
of fat bacon, and at dinner he contrived to slip all the most greasy bits into my plate.  I
held out manfully, and tried to look very heroic, or, at all events, indifferent; but, oh Harry,
I did feel very wretched, and began to reflect that I might possibly have been rather happier
on shore.  I suspect that the way my lips curled, and the yellow look of my eyes, betrayed
me.  The gale lasted for three days.  I was very glad when it was over; so you understand it
is not all sunshine at sea.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 3.

THE SLAVER.

It was reported that we were to touch at one or two places on the coast of Africa, and then
to stand across to the Brazils.  The first land we made was that near Sierra Leone.  I always
thought that negroes lived in thatched huts, and wore bits of white cloth round their loins.
We brought up before Free Town, the capital of the colony, when what was my surprise to see
really a very handsome place, containing between fifteen and twenty thousand inhabitants, the
greater number black or brown men, and as well-dressed and comfortable-looking as any white
people could be.  What is more, they have schools and colleges where they are capitally taught,
and all the little black children go to school; so that the truth is, that they are far better
educated than are the children of the working classes in many parts of England, and are all
just as good Christians as we are.  Sommers told me all this, and a great deal more.  I haven't
spoken about him before.  He's a mate--such a good-natured, kind fellow, and is very merry,
though he can be very serious; and do you know, when he's in the berth, none of the others,
big or little, swear and talk about things they oughtn't to.  I like Sommers, and so even does
Snookes and My Lord; and he never lets anybody bully Polly when he's near.  I think that I
should have been bullied a good deal, but I took everything that was said or done in good part,
or pretended to be unconscious of it, and lost no opportunity of retorting--good-naturedly
of course--it would not have done otherwise. And now, the rest only play the same tricks with
me that they do with each other.  No one makes any difference with me because I am the captain's
nephew, any more than Uncle Tom does himself.  Uncle Tom is very kind, but he makes no difference
that I can see between the rest of the midshipmen and me.  He does the best that he can for
all of us, that is the truth: he punishes all alike if we do wrong, and has us all into the
cabin and gives us good advice, and talks to us frequently.  Still we do, somehow or other,
manage to get into scrapes.  I have been mastheaded twice, and Dickey Snookes five times, since
we came to sea; once for dressing up the sheep in some of the men's clothes just before the
crew were mustered, and then letting them out on the deck; and another time for cutting poor
Polly's hammock down by the head, and very nearly cracking his skull--luckily it's rather thick.
After leaving Free Town we touched at Monrovia, the capital of Liberia.  Have you ever read
about that settlement?  It was established by the people of the United States, and colonised
by men of colour, or blacks, who had been once slaves and had obtained their freedom.  It is
a republic, and the chief magistrate as well as all the officers are brown or black men.  It
is not nearly so large nor so flourishing a place as Sierra Leone.  In the latter, you see,
there are a great many intelligent white men who set the blacks an example of industry and
perseverance, in which qualities they are somewhat wanting generally.  Still it is wonderful
to see what black men can do when left free with a good example before them.  Monrovia is really
a very respectable-looking city.  There are a number of stone warehouses full of goods near
the water, and a good many dwelling-houses of brick, nicely furnished, and of two storeys high,
but the greater number of the habitations are of wood, on brick foundations. There are several
churches, four or five at least, with black or coloured preachers.  The greater part of the
principal inhabitants are engaged in trade, exchanging palm oil, ivory, cam-wood, which is
a valuable dye, for European or American manufactures.  They have also a number of vessels
manned by Liberian sailors, which sail along the coast to collect the produce of the country.
Uncle Tom took me on shore, but we remained only a very short time, so that I cannot give you
a more particular account of the place.  Leaving the coast of Africa, we stood across the Atlantic
towards that of America.  We had left the land some four or five days when the wind fell, and
we lay becalmed, one side and then the other dipping provokingly into the smooth, glassy, and
shining water, and very nearly rolling our masts out.  It was so hot, too, that the pitch bubbled
up through the seams in the deck, and Dickey Snookes declared we could have roasted our dinners
on the capstern-head.  I believe, indeed, that we could.  I was very glad when the sun went
down, and the night came, but it was not so very much cooler even then, and most of the watch
below remained on deck to swallow some fresh air, but very little any one of us benefited by
it.  The next day, at all events, I thought that we should get a breeze, but it was much the
same.  Hot! oh, how hot it was!  We all went gasping about the decks, not knowing what to do
with ourselves, and the sea shone so brightly that it was positively painful to look at it.
I daresay that it would have been much worse on shore, for, at all events, the air we breathed
was pure and clear, though it was pretty well roasted.  It was curious to see the same chips
of wood and empty hampers, and all the odds and ends thrown overboard, floating around us day
after day.  We had been a week thus becalmed when I was sent aloft, as the midshipmen occasionally
are, to see what was to be seen.  I did not expect to see anything, but I did, and that was
a long, thin, dark blue line away to the north-east.  I reported it to the officer of the watch.
He said it was all right, and that we should have a breeze before long, and ordered the watch
to trim sails.  The blue line increased in width till it could be seen from the deck, and on
it came, growing broader and broader every instant.  Sure enough it was a breeze stirring up
the surface of the ocean.  In a little time the upper sails felt its influence, and then the
topsails began to bulge out, and the courses moved, and away we glided through the still smooth
water faster than we had done for many a day.  For some hours we ran on till a sail was reported
right ahead still becalmed.  As we drew near we discovered her to be a large topsail schooner,
with a very rakish appearance.  She was still becalmed, but as we brought the breeze up with
us her sails bulged out, and she began to glide through the water.  There were many discussions
as to what she was; some thought her an honest trader, others a slaver; some said she was American,
and others Spanish or Portuguese.  "One thing is in her favour," observed old Gregson, "she
does not attempt to run away."  "Good reason, Greggy," said Dickey Snookes aside to me, "she
can't--just see what she will do when she gets the wind!"  Though I had never seen a slaver,
the stranger came exactly up to my idea of what a slaver was like.  We always at sea call a
vessel, whose name and country we don't know, a stranger.  Still she did not run away even
when she got the breeze, but hove her topsail to the mast, and kept bobbing gracefully away
at us as we came up, while the stars and stripes of the United States flew out at her peak.
All doubts as to the honesty of her character were dissipated when an officer standing at her
gangway hailed and asked what frigate we were. The reply was given, and he was asked what schooner
that was.  "`The Wide Awake,' from New Orleans, bound in for Sierra Leone.  Shall be happy
to take any letters or packages you have to send for that settlement, captain," exclaimed the
speaker through his trumpet.  This was all very polite.  Still more so was it when the American
skipper offered to send his boat aboard us to receive our despatches.  As it happened, the
captain had been wishing to send a letter back to Sierra Leone, and several of the officers
wished to write, and as the delay would not be great, we told the polite American that we would
trouble him.  He seemed well pleased, and said that he would get his boat ready, and drop aboard
us.  I remained on deck watching the schooner, for there is something very attractive to my
eye in the movements of another vessel at sea.  A boat was after some time lowered from the
schooner and pulled towards us, when she filled her fore-topsail, stood a little way on, tacked,
and then steered so as to get to windward of us.  I saw our first lieutenant watching her very
narrowly when she did this, and then looking at her boat.  Presently he went into the captain's
cabin.  He was not there long.  When he came out he ordered a boat to be manned, with the crew
all armed, and directed the crews of three or four guns on either side to go quietly to their
quarters.  I saw, meantime, that the American's boat, instead of pulling up alongside, was
passing astern of us, so as to meet the schooner, now rapidly approaching our weather quarter.
She was still within hearing when the first lieutenant shouted, "Our despatches are ready--come
on board!"  But the people in the boat pretended not to hear, and pulled on towards the schooner.
On this Sommers was ordered to take command of the boat, and to proceed on board the stranger.
To my great delight I got leave from Uncle Tom to accompany him.  It was very kind--it was
the first piece of favouritism he had shown me.  Dickey Snookes was quite jealous when he saw
me jump into the boat.  "Ah, Pringle, you'll get knocked on the head, my boy, depend on that!"
was his encouraging observation.  Away we pulled towards the schooner.  Her boat had reached
her, and was hoisted up.  We had before not observed more than a dozen or fifteen men at the
utmost. There were now more than double that number on her deck, or about her rigging.  Every
stitch of canvas she could carry was set; her yards were braced sharp up, and away she went
like a shot on a bowline.  "Give way, my lads, give way!" cried Sommers, and the men did give
way, pulling with all their might; but the schooner went through the water much faster than
we did, and in spite of all our efforts soon left us far behind.  "That was the meaning of
all his politeness about the letters-- he expected to hoodwink us, did he? the rogue!" exclaimed
Sommers.  "But though we do not catch him, the frigate will; there is no fear of that!" We
pulled on after the schooner some time longer, but Sommers at length saw that the chase was
perfectly hopeless.  "The worst of it is, that the frigate will have to heave to to pick us
up," he observed.  He then asked me if I should mind letting the frigate stand on after the
chase, and stand the chance of being picked up when she had caught her.  I cannot say that
I particularly liked the notion of being left all alone in a boat in the middle of the Atlantic.
Still I did not like to say so.  However, the captain settled the point by heaving the frigate
to as she came up to us, and ordering us to return on board.  This we did with as little delay,
as possible, when once more the frigate stood on after the schooner.  Still the latter had
gained a considerable advantage, but she was not beyond the range of our guns, and we now began
to fire away at her to make her heave to again.  Of course she had no intention of doing this
if she could help it.  Our shot went flying pretty thickly after her, but still, though several
struck her and cut her ropes, and made eyelet holes in her sails, her damages were repaired
as quickly as they were produced, and there seemed a considerable chance of her getting away
from us altogether.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 4.

THE CHASE.

Our frigate sails very fast; there are few ships in the service sail faster, and none in most
respects to surpass her, or indeed, I really believe, to equal her.  I do not know what she
cannot do.  The boatswain says, and I believe him, that she can do everything but talk.  Still,
somehow or other, that piccarooning-looking schooner managed to keep ahead of us, and after
some time actually ran out of the range of our shot.  She was undoubtedly one of the fastest
vessels of her class ever built, or it would not have happened.  The schooner made a number
of short tacks right away in the wind's eye.  This would not have suited us, as we took longer
to go about, so we had to stretch away to the eastward, while she, tacking once more, stood
to the north-west. Sometimes we appeared to be a long way apart, then about we would go and
be almost up with her again.  What we had to fear was night coming on before we could get up
to her, when very probably she would contrive to escape in the dark.  Old Gregson watched her
moodily.  "Of course she will escape," he observed.  "She is probably full of slaves, and would
prove a rich prize to us.  We are not likely to have any luck; no ship has that I'm on board."
It seemed probable that in this case, at all events, he would be right.  We were all so eager
in watching the chase that none of us felt inclined to go below.  The pangs of hunger at dinner-time,
however, drove most of us there.  We had not got half through the meal before Dickey Snookes
made his appearance with the announcement that the schooner's maintopmast had been carried
away, and that we should be soon up to her.  We all rushed on deck to find matters very much
as they were when we went below, and on our return to the berth there was Master Dickey comfortably
seated at table, helping himself to the best bits of the boiled beef and duff, and laughing
at our simplicity, or, as he remarked, at our being so easily sold.  He got a cobbing by the
by, as a wind-up to his amusement, after dinner was over.  It is an operation by no means over-pleasant
to the person on whom it is inflicted.  The weapon employed is a handkerchief with a corner
knotted; or a stocking, with the end filled with socks, or something to make a hard knot. 
The patient is laid across the mess-table, and each member of the berth inflicts a blow on
a part of his body, over which his clothes are tightly drawn.  As the day drew on, the wind
increased.  Dickey Snookes having been properly cobbed, we all hurried on deck.  As we looked
through our glasses, we saw that the schooner was staggering along under as much canvas as
she could carry; while the frigate glided on with becoming dignity, we having decidedly the
advantage in a strong wind.  I asked Sommers what he thought about the matter.  "We are coming
up with her, lad, hand over hand, and if the wind holds she will be under our guns before nightfall,"
he answered. As you may suppose, I was highly delighted with the thoughts of this, and hoped
that I might be sent on board with the prize crew.  Still the schooner held on her course,
and her determined attempts to escape convinced us more and more that she had good reason for
so doing.  The evening was now drawing on.  We had gained on her very considerably, but still
she was sufficiently ahead, should the night prove dark, to escape us.  The very idea that
she would do so was provoking.  Some did not seem to care so much about it as others.  Dickey
made a joke of the matter, and said how foolish we should all look in the morning when the
schooner was nowhere; and Polly was provokingly indifferent.  The sun went down, and darkness
came on, and very dark it was; and though I looked and looked I could not see the chase, but
there were many on board who could, and we began firing away, the flashes of the guns looking
very bright through the darkness.  At last I saw the schooner's dark hull and masts, like a
shadow against the sky, and there then was a cry that her foretopmast was shot away, and our
people gave a loud cheer.  Directly after this the first lieutenant shouted that she had struck,
and we ceased firing.  Two boats were ordered away to take possession.  The second lieutenant
went in one, and Sommers had command of the other.  I jumped into his boat, as if it were a
matter of course; and away we pulled toward the schooner.  "I guess that you have pretty considerably
outmanoeuvred us, gentlemen, but still I don't know, by what right you, or any other men alive,
venture on board a free and independent merchantman of the United States of America," said
a man who met us at the gangway.  "You come on board at your peril!"

"We are well aware of that, friend," answered our lieutenant; "but we must be satisfied that
you are an American before we let you go."

Saying this, he led the way on board.  By the light of the lanterns we carried, we could see
a very ill-looking crew scowling at us, and evidently wishing to heave us overboard.  It was
lucky that we were all well armed.  I daresay that you will fancy I could not have done much,
but I could fire off a pistol at all events, which was as likely to kill as that of a bigger
fellow--that was one comfort.  The man who had hailed us, and pretended to be the captain,
had said that the vessel was American.  Mr Talbot was only a short time in the cabin when he
came out again, and telling us that he had no doubt she was a Portuguese or Brazilian, ordered
the hatches, which were closed, to be lifted off. This took us some little time to do.  Never
shall I forget the horrible stench--the shrieks and cries and groans which ascended from the
hold as the hatches were got off.  We lowered our lanterns and looked down. There, arranged
in rows along the deck, and chained two and two, squatting on their hams, were several hundreds
of blacks--men, women, and children.  I cannot describe the dreadful faces of despair and horror
and suffering which met our view as the light of our lanterns fell on them, while they looked
up with their white eyes and black visages imploringly at us.  I fancy that they thought we
were going to shoot them all; for the Portuguese crew had told them so, in the hopes, should
we free them, that they might set upon us and throw us overboard. This amiable intention was
frustrated, because Mr Talbot had been on the coast of Africa and was well up to the tricks
of the slavers.  He consequently would not allow any of the poor wretches to be liberated till
all necessary precautions had been taken to prevent them from doing any harm.  Our first care
was to secure the slaver's crew.  They seemed as if inclined to make some resistance; but we
pointed to the frigate, which was close to us, and intimated that if they did not behave themselves
we should call her to our assistance; so, with no very good grace, they consented to step into
one of our boats to be carried on board the Juno.  I was very glad to get rid of them, for
I could not help feeling, as I walked about the deck, that any moment they might set upon us
and knock us on the head.  As soon as they had gone, Mr Talbot sent Sommers and me round the
deck with water and farinha; that is the food the blacks are fed on.  We had four men with
us carrying the provisions.  I could not have supposed that human beings, with flesh and blood
like ourselves, could have existed in such a horrible condition. In the first place, there
was barely four feet between the decks, and that was very high for a slaver; many are only
three feet.  Even I had to bend down to get along.  Close as they could be packed, the poor
creatures sat on the bare, hard, dirty deck, without even room to stretch their legs.  I almost
fainted, and even Sommers and the men had great difficulty in getting along.  Oh! how eagerly
the poor creatures drank the water when we put it to their mouths, though they did not seem
to care much about the food.  Many could not even lift up their heads to take the water.  Several
were dying; and as we put the tin cups to their mouths, even while gazing at us, and, I am
sure, feeling grateful, they fell back and died.  Many were already dead when we came to them,
and there they lay, chained to the living.  Sometimes we found that a father had died, leaving
two or three small children; sometimes a mother had sunk, leaving an infant still living. 
Several poor children had died, and it was hard work, and cruel it seemed, to make the poor
mothers give up the bodies to be thrown overboard.  We came to one black lad, who was sitting
by the side of a woman, whom we guessed must be his mother. Sommers said that he thought she
had not many minutes to live.  The poor fellow seemed so grateful when we gave her some water
and food, which revived her somewhat.  I never saw a greater change in anybody's countenance.
He was at first the very picture of misery and despair. Then he thought that she was going
to recover.  He looked up as if he could almost have worshipped us, with a smile which, though
his countenance was black, was full of expression.  We knocked off her chains, and then those
of the lad, and Sommers directed one of the men to assist me in carrying her on deck.  There
were many in as deplorable a condition as this poor woman, and I scarcely know why it was I
felt so anxious to assist her, except on account of her son; there was something in his face
which had so interested me.  When we got her on deck, she sat up but she could not reply to
her son, who, with tears in his eyes, spoke to her, imploring her, it seemed, to answer him.
The surgeon and assistant-surgeons had by this time come on board.  I begged the first to come
and look at the poor woman before he went below.  When I returned, she had sunk back in her
son's arms.  Our kind doctor took her hand--"It's all over with her; I can do nothing.  The
poor lad will find it out," he observed, and then he had to hurry below.  It was some time
before the poor lad could believe that his mother was dead, and then he burst into such a fit
of tears that I thought he would have died himself.  It convinced me that negroes have got
hearts just like ours, though Dickey Snookes always declares they have not, and that they once
had tails, which is all nonsense.  We had now a strong body of seamen on board, and they kept
bringing up the negroes from below--men, women, and children.  Several were dead, and two or
three had been dead for a couple of days or more.  One poor woman had kept the dead body of
her child, pretending that it was alive, nor bearing to part with it, till she herself fell
sick.  At length it was taken from her, but she died as soon as she was brought on deck.  In
spite of all the doctors could do, many others died also.  It was daylight before we got the
slave hold in anything like order.  As soon as the sun rose, up went the glorious flag of old
England, and from that moment every negro on board was free.  It is a proud thing to feel that
not for a moment can a man remain a slave who rests under the shadow of that time-honoured
banner.  The instant the slave, whatever his country, sets foot on British soil, he is free,
or placed under the protection of the British flag.  It is a thing to be proud of.  Of that
I am certain.  Not for a long time, however, could we persuade the poor slaves that we meant
them well, and were doing all we could for their benefit.  When they once were convinced of
this, they gave us their unlimited confidence.  We were then able to trust about a third at
a time on deck, to enable us to clean out the hold.  It was not so much that we had reason
to be on our guard against what the negroes could do to us, as to prevent them from injuring
themselves.  Mr Talbot had ordered about fifty to be brought on deck soon after daylight. 
He had their irons knocked off, and water and brushes were given them that they might clean
themselves.  No sooner, however, did two of them find themselves free, than, before anybody
could prevent them, they leaped overboard.  One poor fellow sunk at once, and disappeared from
our sight; the other seemed to repent of the act, and swam to regain the schooner.  I, with
others, instantly leaped into one of the boats alongside to go and pick him up.  Just as we
were shoving off, I saw a black triangular fin sticking up above the surface dart from under
the counter.  We shouted and splashed the oars as we pulled with all our might towards the
poor fellow.  There was a terrible shriek; he gave one imploring gaze at us as he threw up
his arms and sank from view.  We could see him going rapidly down, with a large dark object
below him, while a red circle came up and filled the eddy he had made.  "Jack Shark musters
pretty thick about here," observed the coxswain; "he knows well enough when he's likely to
have a feast."  It was very dreadful, but, do you know, it is extraordinary how little one
feels those sort of things at the time.  When I got on board I looked about for the poor lad
whose mother had died.  I found him still sitting by her body.  That had to be taken from him,
and then he was left alone.  He seemed not to know or to care for any of the other blacks,
but when I spoke to him he knelt down and kissed my hand, and said some words which I thought
meant--"You'll be kind to me and take care of me.  I know you will.  I'll trust to you."  I
do not know whether this was really what he said or not, but, at all events, I determined to
do my best, and to be a friend to him. Slavers, when captured, are usually sent into Sierra
Leone to be condemned, when the slaves are set free, and the vessels are sold.  On examining
our prize, however, it was discovered that she had but a short allowance of water and farinha,
or provisions of any sort; and as the wind was fair for Rio de Janeiro, and contrary for Sierra
Leone, the captain decided on carrying her to the former place, or to some other port on the
Brazilian coast, where she might obtain a sufficient supply of necessaries, which we could
not afford to give her from the frigate. Sommers was appointed to command the prize, and I
was not a little gratified when he obtained leave to take me with him.  My traps were soon
on board, and we then shaped a course for Rio de Janeiro.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 5.

PETER PONGO.

I forgot to say that Dickey Snookes was sent on board the prize to keep me company.  He told
me that the captain had called him into the cabin, and given him a long lecture about playing
tricks, and that he had made up his mind to behave very circumspectly.  I doubted that he would
keep very long to his good resolution.  I felt excessively proud when I first walked the deck
of the prize as officer of the watch, though that fellow Snookes would declare that the old
quartermaster who kept it with me was my dry-nurse, and that I was a mere make-believe.  I
know that I kept pacing up and down on the weather side of the quarter-deck with great dignity,
looking up at the sails, and every now and then giving a glance at the compass, to assure myself
that the man at the helm was steering a proper course.  I should like to know what officer
in the service, under the circumstances, could do more.  We were ordered to keep the frigate
always in sight, and as the prize sailed well, we had little difficulty in doing that.  In
the day time we collected the poor blacks to come on deck in fifties at a time, and walk up
and down.  We had a black man on board the frigate, who was now sent with us, and he understood
the language of some of the slaves.  I had not forgotten the poor boy whose mother I had seen
die, and I got permission for him to attend at our mess.  The other black seaman was able to
explain to him what he had to do, and I set to work to teach him English.  He learned with
surprising rapidity, and could soon exchange words with me.  I wished to give him a name, and
succeeded in learning that his native one was Pongo.  He, of course, had no Christian name,
so I proposed calling him Peter, and he was always afterwards known as Peter Pongo.  He soon
became a capital servant, though he did now and then make curious mistakes.  Once he brought
our soup into the cabin in a wash-bowl, and another time emptied into a pail two bottles of
wine which he had been ordered to cool in water.  Snookes was for punishing him, but I saved
the poor fellow, as I was certain that he had not done either of the things being aware of
their incorrectness.  He exhibited, in consequence, the greatest gratitude towards me, and
evidently looked up to me as his friend and protector.  He improved rapidly in his knowledge
of English, and by the time we drew near the coast of South America he was able to explain
himself with tolerable clearness.  With the aid of the negro seaman I spoke of, I got somewhat
of poor Peter Pongo's simple history out of him.  I cannot put it in his words, for though
at the time I could understand them, yet you certainly would not if I wrote them down.  One
day I had gone forward, and when seated on the forecastle, under the shade of the fore-staysail,
I listened to his narrative.  "Ah!  Massa Pringle, my country very good," he began.  He always
called me Pringle, for he could not manage to pronounce my surname.  "Plenty yams there-- plenty
denge--plenty corn--plenty sheep--tall trees--high mountains-- water come gushing out of rocks
up among clouds--so cool with foam--loud roar--make grass grow--bright ponds--many animals
come and drink.  Ah! no country like mine.  My father have good house too--very warm--very
cool--no rain come in--all built round square--high roof, hang long way over wall--room for
walk up and down under it.  Dere we all sit in middle of square, listen to stories--now we
laugh, now we cry--sun go down, moon get up--star twinkle in dark sky, all so bright--still
we talk--talk on--tell long stories--so happy--laugh still more.  Ah! what is dat?  Dreadful
shriek--shriek--shriek--guns fire--we all start up-- some run one way, some anoder--house on
fire--flames rise up--fierce men come in--cut down some--kill--kill--take women, children--many
young men--some fight--dey all killed--my father killed--mother, brother, and me all carried
away together--hands tied behind our backs--hundreds-- hundreds poor people, all drive away
towards coast--then with long sticks and whips drive along--walk, walk--foot so sore--sleep
at night under tree--all chained--up again before sun--walk, walk on all day-- cruel men beat
us--some grow sick.  My brother, him grow sick--lie down under tree--men beat him with stick--he
look up--say, Oh, no beat me-- give one sigh, fall back and die.  Dere he stay--many die like
him--some lie down, and men beat him up again.  On we go--see at last blue ocean-- put into
Barracoon--all chained to iron bar--no move one side nor oder-- wait dere many days.  Ship
with white sail come at last--we all put on raft--carried to ship.  Oh, how many--more, more
come--ship no hold them--many sick--many die--thrown overboard--shark eat them.  On we sail--oh,
how hot--more, more die--many days no more--float on water like one log--den you come--white
man, Spaniard, say you kill us--ah, no, no--you very good--we very happy--yes, massa, Peter
Pongo very happy now."  Such was Peter's brief account of himself.  You will not consider it
too much of a rigmarole.  I was, I know, much interested when he told it me, and I had some
little difficulty in making out what he meant. Soon after this we entered the magnificent harbour
of Rio de Janeiro, which looks like a lake surrounded by lofty hills, the curious sugar-loaf
rising above all.  I have heard it said that it would contain all the ships in the world; but,
large as it is, I have an idea that they would be very close packed if they were all brought
together there. The city is large, built on level ground, or rather on a swamp, with mountains
covered with trees rising directly behind it.  There are numerous churches and fine palaces,
and many large public buildings, but the white inhabitants are very brown and dirty, and the
black, who seem to be very numerous, wear a remarkably small amount of clothing.  Though the
greater number are slaves, they are very merry slaves, and it was amusing to see one party
meet another.  They would stop, pull off their straw hats, make a series of mock polite bows,
and some remarks which were sure to produce roars of laughter; how they would twist and turn
about, and at last lean against each other's backs, that they might more at their ease indulge
in fresh cachinnations.  I have never seen any but blacks twist themselves into such curious
attitudes.  I cannot give a more lucid account of this imperial city, because I was so very
little on shore.  We had a great deal of work in getting the schooner refitted. All the poor
blacks were taken on board the frigate, for we could not trust them on shore lest the Brazilians
might have spirited them away, while the schooner was thoroughly cleansed and fumigated.  We
then took in an ample supply of water and provisions, and prepared to recross the Atlantic.
The Brazilians could not understand why we took so much trouble about a few miserable blacks,
and thought that we should have done much more wisely had we sold them to them at half-price.
Mr Talbot had still charge of the prize, and having Sommers as his lieutenant, with Dickey
Snookes and me, he was ordered to carry her back to Sierra Leone.  We flattered ourselves that
both My Lord and Polly looked at us with a considerable amount of envy as we wished them farewell.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 6.

OVERBOARD.

Once more we were at sea.  Had it not been for the honour of the thing, we should have preferred
being on board the frigate, for although I have a great respect for many Africans, I must say
that it is not agreeable to have some hundreds of them as shipmates.  We had happily very fine
weather, and the poor people were able constantly to take the air on deck.  They seemed to
have forgotten all their sufferings and miseries, and would sing and dance and tell stories,
and laugh all day long.  I still continued to take Peter Pongo in hand, and began to teach
him not only to speak but to read and write English.  Snookes used to laugh at me at first,
but when he saw the progress Peter made he wanted to teach him likewise.  To this I said No,
he might try and teach some one else, but he was not to interfere with my pupil.  He agreed
to this, but either he selected a stupid subject, or his mode of teaching was not good, for
he made wonderfully little progress.  For a week he was trying to teach his pupil Tommy Toad,
as he called him, three letters of the alphabet, and at the end of the time he could not tell
B from C.  Mr Talbot took care also that we should not be idle, and kept us knotting and splicing
and doing all sorts of work aloft.  We were approaching our port, and were congratulating ourselves
on having made a favourable passage, when two of our men were taken sick, then another and
another, till our strength was sadly reduced.  One poor fellow died, and there appeared every
prospect of our losing more.  The negroes were generally ready enough to work, but as they
did not know how, they were of little use.  Mr Talbot and Sommers worked away most heroically,
attending to the sick, pulling and hauling, and often steering the vessel.  Dickey and I did
our best to help them.  While the fine weather lasted our difficulties were not very great;
at the same time, we were so short handed that the labour fell heavily on those who remained
well.  Dickey and I, though not very big or strong, from going constantly aloft, were of no
little use, we flattered ourselves.  One evening as we were approaching our destination, being
closed hauled under all sail and standing on our course--Sommers was at the helm, Mr Talbot
was below, and Dickey and I with two men were on deck, all we could muster for the watch--Sommers
kept looking anxiously round the horizon, especially to the southward, where I observed some
dark clouds banking up.  As I watched them, they seemed suddenly to take it into their heads
to roll rapidly onward, and down they bore upon us like a flock of sheep scouring over the
downs.  "All hands shorten sail," shouted Sommers. "Stafford.  Rushforth, aloft lads, and furl
the fore-topgallantsail." Up we sprang into the rigging.  As yet the breeze was very light,
and there was no difficulty in what we had to do, but a few minutes' delay might make the task
impracticable.  Dickey was spirited enough in reality.  We lay along on the yard, and had begun
to haul the sail, when, as I was stretching over to get a hold of the canvas to gather it up,
I lost my balance, and over I went head first.  I heard a shriek. It was from Dickey.  He thought
I should be killed.  So should I, if I had had time to think about the matter; but providentially
at that moment a sudden puff of wind bulged out the foretopsail to its utmost extent, and I
striking it at the moment, away it sent me, as from a catapult, right over the bows, clear
of the vessel.  Had I struck the deck or bulwarks I should have been killed.  I sank, but quickly
coming to the surface, looked about me with very little hope of being saved, for there was
the schooner flying on before the fast-increasing gale; and as I knew full well, with so few
seamen on board, that it would take some time to put about to come to my relief.  All this
flashed rapidly through my mind.  Farther and farther away flew the schooner, still I determined
not to give in.  I could swim pretty well, and I managed to throw off my jacket and kick off
my shoes, and as only a thin pair of trousers and a shirt remained, I had no difficulty in
keeping myself above water; but the knowledge that sharks abounded in those seas, and that
any moment one of those horrid monsters might catch hold of my leg and haul me down, gave me
very unpleasant sensations.  I watched the receding vessel--moments seemed hours.  There was
no sign of her putting about.  I at length was about to give way to despair, when my eye fell
on an object floating between her and me.  It was of some size--a grating I concluded--and
I made out a black ball on the other side of it.  The grating was moving towards me.  I struck
out to make it, and then I saw that it was pushed by a negro.  "Keep up, Massa Pringle, keep
up," said a voice in a cheery tone, which I recognised as that of Peter Pongo.  My spirits
returned.  I had been a careless, thoughtless fellow, but I prayed then as I never prayed before,
that the dreadful sharks might be kept from me, that I might reach the grating, and might by
some means or other be saved.  I felt a strength and courage I had not felt before.  I struck
out with all my power, still it seemed very very long before I reached the grating, and in
my agitation I almost sank as I was catching hold of it.  Peter Pongo had, however, sprang
on to it and caught hold of me.  I soon recovered.  Words enough did not just then come into
my head to thank him, but I took his hand, and he understood me.  So far I was safe, for the
grating was large enough to hold us both, but the sea was rapidly rising, and we might easily
again be washed off.  We looked about us, the schooner had not yet tacked, and the squall had
already caught her.  She was heeling over on her beam-ends, and everything seemed in confusion
on board--yards swinging about, ropes flying away, and sails shivering to tatters.  It was
late in the evening, the sky was obscured, and darkness was coming on.  The seas, too, began
to dance wildly about us; their white tops, curling over and leaving dark cavern-looking hollows
underneath, into which it seemed every instant that we must glide and be swallowed up.  The
prospect altogether was gloomy in the extreme.  I felt how much I owed to poor Peter Pongo,
who had voluntarily exposed himself to it for my sake, and I felt that had he not done so,
I should long before this have been numbered with the dead.  I still thought that we should
both be saved.  There were some bits of rope fastened to the grating, and by these we lashed
ourselves to it, or we should inevitably have been washed off.  We were constantly under water,
but as it was warm that did not signify, as we soon again came to the surface.  Our fear was
lest some hungry shark should make a dart at us on those occasions and pick us off.  Darker
and darker it grew, the seas as they dashed wildly about made a loud prolonged roar, and at
last, as we cast our eyes forward, not a glimpse of the schooner could we see.  As the conviction
of our forlorn condition broke upon me--I could not help it--I gave way to tears.  I could
not wring my hands because they were busy holding on to the grating.  I thought of you, mother,
and papa, and dear Harry, and our sisters, and that I should never see you any more; or old
England, or the Hall, or Uncle Tom, or any of my friends.  Peter wasn't so unhappy, because
he had no friends remaining, and his native village was in ruins.  The darkness came thicker
and thicker down upon us.  Nothing could we see but the dark waves rising up on every side
against the sky. Not a star was visible.  We no longer, indeed, knew in which direction to
look for the schooner.  It appeared, I remember exactly, as if we were being tossed about inside
a black ball.  I could not calculate how long a time had passed since I had fallen overboard,
when I began to feel very hungry.  I had had a bit of biscuit in my pocket, but that had been
lost with my jacket, and now I had nothing to eat.  I bore it for some time, and then I felt
very faint, and thought that I could not possibly hold on any longer.  Still I did my best
not to let go, and every now and then Peter spoke to me and encouraged me, "Neber fear, massa,"
said he.  "Him you tell me of, live up in sky, Him watch over us."  We did not speak much,
however; we could not, I do not know why. Oh, that was a dreary, awful night, not likely to
be forgotten!  Yet here I am alive.  I shall never despair after that, and shall always feel,
in however terrible a position I am placed, that a merciful God is watching over me, and that
He will find means to save me.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 7.

CAUSE FOR GRATITUDE.

The longest night must come to an end.  Many people, when kept awake in a comfortable bed with
the toothache or some other pain, or perhaps with a little fever, think themselves very miserable,
and much to be pitied. Peter Pongo and I were rather worse off, tossing about on the grating
out on the Atlantic there, not having anything to eat, and not knowing any moment when we might
be washed away from our unsteady raft.  How we held on during all that night I cannot tell.
The light came at last. We knew where the east was by seeing a bright red streak in the sky.
We kept our eyes turned eagerly in that direction, for we fancied that there we should see
the schooner.  Our view, however, was very much circumscribed, and it was only as we were tossed
up to the top of a sea that we could obtain even a glimpse of the horizon.  We had scarcely
time to assure ourselves whether or not there was a sail there before either a foam-topped
sea jumped up before us, or we sank down again into the trough.  We gazed, but we gazed in
vain.  No sail was to be seen. In spite of our almost hopeless position we became very hungry,
and, what was worse, thirsty also.  As the sun rose and struck down on our heads my thirst
increased.  I felt certain that I could not hold on much longer.  Peter Pongo did not care
so much about the hot sun, but he was very hungry.  Suddenly I saw some red objects floating
near us in the water.  I looked again.  Oh, how eager I felt to get them--they were oranges.
They were too far off to reach.  I was afraid to quit the grating.  I had no strength left
to swim.  No sooner did Peter see them than he slid off the raft, and swimming round them collected
a dozen or more before him, and pushing them on enabled me to pick them out of the water. 
I felt greatly relieved when he was once more safe on the grating.  Oh, how delicious those
oranges were!  They were the means, I doubt not, of preserving our lives.  They quenched our
thirst, but they could not stop the pangs of hunger.  The sun rose higher and higher, till
we guessed it was noon.  The wind went down, but the sea still continued to tumble us about
most uncomfortably.  Both of us were becoming very drowsy when we started up--a loud shout
sounded in our ears.  "Why, lads, you keep a bad look-out on board your craft," said a voice.
We looked up--a large ship was passing us.  "Don't fear--we'll pick you up," said the former
speaker.  I heard the cry of "helm's alee!"  The yards swung round, and the ship was rounded
too.  By that time she seemed to have got a long way from us.  Presently, however, we saw a
boat dashing among the seas towards us.  I thought that her bow would have come right down
on our raft, but just then I felt a strong arm grasp me by the shoulder, and haul me in, while
Peter was treated in the same way, and we were quickly alongside the ship.  We were lifted
on board.  She appeared full of people, who looked very kindly at us.  At first I could not
speak a word; I did not know why.  I thought that I was going to say something, but no sound
was produced.  The people who stood round remarked that I was a foreigner, and two or three
people came up and addressed me in strange languages, but of course I was not more likely to
answer them than I was my own countrymen.  At last I heard Peter Pongo, who had been much concerned
at my silence, say, "Him officer--speakie by and by."  This remark seemed to satisfy those
present, and in about an hour I was able to sit up and explain what had happened.  I found
that we had been rescued by an emigrant ship bound for the Cape of Good Hope.  I was in hope
that she might be able to land us at Sierra Leone, but I found that she could not possibly
go out of her course; indeed, that we were much to the southward of that place, and that on
to the Cape we also must go.  In a very few minutes I became, I must own, reconciled to the
necessity.  When the cabin passengers found that I was a midshipman they rigged me out in very
comfortable clothes, and clubbing together presented me with a sum of money, as they said,
to enable me to live comfortably, till I could find my way back to my ship.  When, also, they
heard how gallantly Peter Pongo had rescued me, they gave him a handsome present.  He could
scarcely comprehend his good fortune, and as he looked at the money he evidently thought himself
the owner of boundless wealth.  I had the best of everything at the chief cabin table, and
could not help thinking how pleasant it would be to live the life of a passenger on board an
emigrant ship all the year round.  I was therefore very much surprised to hear some of them
grumbling from morning to night, complaining of having nothing to do, and wishing that the
voyage was over.  If they had lived in a midshipman's berth for a few months, I rather suspect
that they would have thought themselves well off.  I need not describe our passage to the Cape;
it was a very pleasant one.  I was very happy during the short time I remained at that curious
old Dutch place, Cape Town.  I saw the table-mountain and the tablecloth on the top of it,
and then a sloop of war called there, and the commodore, who was there, ordered me and Peter
Pongo a passage back to Sierra Leone.  I was never idle, for I found ample employment in teaching
Peter to read, and wonderful was the progress he made.  He was a great favourite on board the
corvette on account of his intelligence and amiable manners, and the gallant way in which he
had preserved my life.  On entering the harbour of Sierra Leone, there, to my great satisfaction,
lay our schooner, with the pennant flying at her masthead, and the British ensign at her peak.
I got a boat from the corvette, and at once pulled on board.  I could see at a glance that
the schooner had been turned into a man-of-war. She had been bought, as I afterwards found,
into the service.  I was in plain clothes, and Peter Pongo who accompanied me, was very nicely
dressed, and no one would have recognised him as the little slave boy he had before appeared.
Dickey Snookes looked over the side.  I sprang up the side.  "What do you want?" he asked.
"To see that very important personage, Mr Algernon Godolphin Stafford, commonly known as Dickey
Snookes," I answered, taking his hand.  He started, and looked at me very hard, really gasping
for breath, so astonished was he.  "What! is it you yourself, Rushforth, my dear fellow?" he
exclaimed.  "I am indeed glad.  We thought you were lost; gobbled up by a shark, or sunk to
the bottom of the sea.  Here, Sommers--here's Rushforth come to life again, and the black boy
too."  Sommers, who was below, came on deck, and received me most cordially.  Mr Talbot, who
had command of the schooner, now called the Liberia, was on shore.  She was to sail, I found,
the very next day for Rio Janeiro, to act as a tender to our ship.  I consulted with Sommers
what would be most to the advantage of Peter Pongo to do.  He strongly advised his going to
the college at Sierra Leone, where he would receive a very good education, and he undertook
to arrange the matter.  I had still the greater part of the money given me by the passengers
of the emigrant ship, which I had kept for the purpose of devoting it to Peter's use.  This,
with what he had of his own, would enable him to make a fair start in life.  Peter himself,
though very sorry to leave me, was much pleased with the proposal.  That very afternoon he
and I accompanied Sommers on shore, when the whole matter was arranged in a very satisfactory
way with some of the gentlemen connected with the college, who undertook to invest the sum
I have mentioned for Peter's benefit.  Peter burst into tears as I wished him good-bye, and
I felt a very curious sensation about the throat.  The next day we sailed for Rio.

STORY ONE, CHAPTER 8.

CONCLUSION.

We had a fast run across the Atlantic.  The news of my supposed loss had reached the frigate,
and the kind way in which my uncle and the gun-room officers, as well as my messmates, received
me, showed me that I had been regretted--of course a midshipman cannot expect to create any
very great sorrow when he loses the number of his mess, as an admiral or a post-captain would.
I did not meet with any other very extraordinary adventures during the remainder of the four
years the frigate was in commission.  I found the South American station a very pleasant one.
I might have found Rio dull, but that I was constantly sent away in the Liberia, which did
good service by capturing several slavers.  We used to make her look like what she formerly
was, and in that way she acted as a decoy, and entrapped several slavers who approached her
without suspicion.  We had one long trip round Cape Horn, and visited the coast of Chili and
Peru.  That was the most interesting we took.  I feel that I have a right to be considered
something of a sailor after having doubled Cape Horn, and crossed and re-crossed the Line.
At length the frigate was ordered home; the schooner remained at Rio to do duty as before as
a tender.  On our way we touched at Sierra Leone.  My uncle gave me leave to go on shore. 
I hurried off to the college, for I was anxious to hear something of my old friend and the
preserver of my life. Three years had passed since I had seen him.  He was then little more
than fourteen.  I was shown into a room where several pupil teachers were engaged in giving
instruction to a number of young lads and boys. One teacher was evidently taking the lead of
the rest.  In very eloquent language he was explaining the truths of Christianity to a class
of most attentive listeners.  Though the skin of the speaker was black, the voice was that
of an educated Englishman.  I waited till he had ceased speaking.  There is Mr Pongo, said
the person who had conducted me to the room.  His eye brightened as he saw me, and in an instant
springing from his desk his hands were warmly pressed in mine.  What immense progress he has
made! how little I have advanced since we parted!  I thought as I looked at him and heard him
describe his work.  I felt humbled and ashamed of myself.  I thought over the matter, and resolved
in future to employ my time, as far as I had the power, to the advantage of myself as well
as that of others.  Pongo came on board the frigate, and was received most kindly by my uncle
and all the officers.  He was, I found, training to become a missionary of the Gospel among
his countrymen, and hoped ultimately to be ordained.  I have since frequently heard from him.
We spent only three days at Sierra Leone, and arrived at last safely in old England, and thus
ended my first cruise.

STORY TWO, CHAPTER 1.

THE TRAVELLING TIN-MAN, FOUNDED ON FACT, BY MISS LESLIE.

Micajah Warner was owner and cultivator of a small farm in one of the oldest, most fertile,
and most beautiful counties of the State of Pennsylvania, not far from Maryland line.  Micajah
was a plain Quaker, and a man of quiet and primitive habits.  He was totally devoid of all
ambitious cravings after tracts of ten thousand acres, and he aspired not to the honour and
glory of having his name given to a town in the western wilderness (though Warnerville would
not have sounded badly), neither was he possessed of an unconquerable desire of becoming a
judge, or of going to Congress.  Therefore, he had always been able to resist the persuasions
and example of those of his neighbours who left the home of their fathers, and the comforts
of an old settlement, to seek a less tedious road to wealth and consequence, on the other side
of the Allegany.  He was satisfied with the possession of two hundred acres, one half of which
he had lent (not given) to his son Israel, who expected shortly to be married to a very pretty
and notable young woman in the neighbourhood, who was, however, no heiress.  Upon this event,
Israel was to be established in an old frame-house that had long since been abandoned by his
father in favour of the substantial stone dwelling which the family occupied at the period
of our story.  The house had been taken up and transplanted to that part of the farm now allotted
to Israel, and he very prudently deferred repairing it till he saw whether it survived its
progress across the domain.  But as it did not fall asunder during the journey, it was judged
worthy of a new front-door, new window-panes, and new shingles to cover the vast chasms of
the roof, all which improvements were made by Israel's own hands.  This house was deposited
in the vicinity of the upper branch of the creek, and conveniently near to a saw-mill, which
had been built by Israel in person.

Like all of her sect, whether in town or country, Bulah, the wife of Micajah Warner, was a
woman of even temper, untiring industry, and great skill in housewifery.

Her daughters, commonly called Amy and Orphy, were neat pretty little Quaker girls, extremely
alert, and accustomed from their earliest childhood to assist in the work of the house.  As
her daughters were so handy and industrious, and only went half the year to school, Mrs Warner
did not think it necessary to keep any other help than an indentured negro girl, named Chloe.

Except the marriage of Israel, which was now in prospect; a flood in the neighbouring creek,
which had raised the water so high as to wash away the brick oven from the side of the house;
a tornado that carried off the roof of the old stable, and landed it whole in an adjoining
clover field; and a visit from a family of beggars (an extraordinary phenomenon in the country),
nothing occurred among the Warners for a long succession of years that had occasioned more
than a month's talk of the mother, and a month's listening of the children.

  "They kept the noiseless tenor of their way."

The occupations of Israel and his father (assisted occasionally by a few hired men) were, of
course, those of the farm, except when Israel took a day now and then to attend to his saw-mill.
With regard to domestic arrangements, everything connected with household affairs went on in
the same course year after year except that, as the daughters of the family improved in capability
of work, Chloe the black girl, retrograded.  They washed on Monday (with the assistance of
a woman, hired for the day), ironed on Tuesday, performed what they called "the little baking"
on Wednesday, and "the big baking" on Friday; cleaned the house on Saturday, and clear-starched
their book-muslin collars; rode on horseback to Friends' meeting on Sunday morning, and visited
their neighbours on Sunday afternoon.

It was the day after the one on which Israel and his bride-elect had passed meeting, and consequently,
a month before the one fixed for the wedding, that something like an adventure fell among the
Warner family.

It was a beautiful evening at the close of August.  The father and son had been all day in
the meadows, mowing the second crop of grass; Mrs Warner was darning stockings in the porch,
with her two daughters knitting on the bench beside her; Amy being then fourteen, and Orphy
about twelve.  Chloe was absent, having been borrowed by a relation, about five miles off,
to do the general work of the house, while the family were engaged in preparing for a quilting
frolic.

"Come, girls," said Mrs Warner to her daughter, "it's just sun-down. The geese are coming home,
and daddy and Israel will soon be here.  Amy, do thee go down to the spring-house, and bring
up the milk and butter, and Orphy, thee can set the table."

The two girls put up their knitting (not, however, till they had knit to the middle of the
needle), and in a short time, Amy was seen coming back from the spring-house, with a large
pitcher of milk and a plate of butter.  In the meantime, Orphy had drawn out the ponderous
claw-footed walnut table that stood all summer in the porch, and spreading over it a brown
linen cloth, placed in regular order their everyday supper equipage of pewter plates, earthen
porringers, and iron spoons.

The viands consisted of an immense round loaf of bread, nearly as large as a grindstone, and
made of wheat and Indian meal, the half of a huge cheese, a piece of cold pork, a peach pie,
an apple pie, and, as it had been baking day, there was the customary addition of a rice pudding,
in an earthen pan of stupendous size.  The last finish of the decorations of the table was
a large bowl of cool water, placed near the seat occupied by the father of the family, who
never could begin any of his meals without a copious draught of the pure element.

In a few minutes, the farmer and his son made their appearance as they turned the angle of
the peach-orchard fence, preceded by the geese, their usual avant-couriers, who went out every
morning to feed in an old field beyond the meadows.

As soon as Micajah and Israel had hung up their scythes and washed themselves at the pump,
they sat down to table, the farmer in his own blue-painted, high-backed, high-armed chair,
and Israel taking the seat always allotted to him--a low chair, the rushes of which having
long since deserted the bottom, had been replaced by cross pieces of cloth listing, ingeniously
interwoven with each other; and this being, according to the general opinion, the worst seat
in the house, always fell to the share of the young man, who was usually passive on all occasions,
and never seemed to consider himself entitled to the same accommodation as the rest of the family.

Suddenly, the shrill blast of a tin trumpet resounded through the woods, that covered the hill
in front of the house, to the great disturbance of the geese, who had settled themselves quietly
for the night in their usual bivouac around the ruins of an old waggon.  The Warners ceased
their supper to listen and look; and they saw emerging from the woods, and rolling down the
hill at a brisk trot, the cart of one of those itinerant tin merchants, who originate in New
England, and travel from one end of the Union to the other, avoiding the cities, and seeking
customers amongst the country people; who, besides buying their ware, always invite them to
a meal and a bed.

The tinman came blowing his horn to the steps of the porch, and there stopping his cart, addressed
the farmer's wife in the true nasal twang that characterises the lower class of New Englanders,
and inquired "if she had any notion of a bargain."

She replied that "she believed she had no occasion for anything"--her customary answer to all
such questions.

But Israel, who looked into futurity, and entertained views towards his own housekeeping, stepped
forward to the tin-cart, and began to take down and examine various mugs, pans, kettles, and
coffee-pots--the latter particularly, as he had a passion for coffee, which he secretly determined
to indulge both morning and evening, as soon as he was settled in his domicile.

"Mother," said Amy, "I do wish thee would buy a new coffee-pot, for ours has been leaking all
summer, and I have to stop it every morning with rye-meal.  Thee knows we can give the old
one to Israel."

"To be sure," replied Mrs Warner, "it will do well enough for young beginners.  But I cannot
say I feel quite free to buy a new coffee-pot at this time.  I must consider about it."

"And there's the cullender," said Orphy, "it has such a big crack at the bottom, that when
I am smashing the squashes for dinner, not only the water, but the squashes themselves drip
through.  Better give it to Israel, and get a new one for ourselves.  What's this?" she continued,
taking up a tin water-dipper.

"That is for dipping warter out of the bucket," replied the tinman.

"Oh, yes," cried Amy, "I've seen such a one at Rachel Johnson's.  What a clever thing it is,
with a good long handle, so that there's no danger of splashing the water on our clothes. 
Do buy it, mother.  Thee knows that Israel can have the big calabash: I patched it myself,
yesterday, where it was broken, and bound the edge with new tape, and it's now as good as ever."

"I don't know," said the farmer, "that we want anything but a new lantern; for ours had the
socket burnt out long before these moonlight nights, and it's dangerous work taking a candle
into the stable."

The tinman knowing that our plain old farmers, though extremely liberal of everything that
is produced on their plantations, are, frequently, very tenacious of coin, and much averse
to parting with actual money, recommended his wares more on account of their cheapness than
their goodness; and, in fact, the price of most of the articles was two or three cents lower
than they could be purchased for at the stores.

Old Micajah thought there was no actual necessity for anything except the lantern; but his
daughters were so importunate for the coffee-pot, the cullender, and the water-dipper, that
finally all three were purchased and paid for.  The tinman in vain endeavoured to prevail on
Mrs Warner to buy some patty-pans, which the girls looked at with longing eyes; and he reminded
them how pretty the pumpkin pies would look at their next quilting, baked in scollop-edged
tins.  But this purchase was peremptorily refused by the good Quaker woman, alleging that scollop-edged
pies were all pride and vanity, and that, if properly made, they were quite good enough baked
in round plates.

The travelling merchant then produced divers boxes and phials of quack medicines, prepared
at a celebrated manufactory of those articles, and duly sealed with the maker's own seal, and
inscribed with his name in his own handwriting.  Amongst these, he said, "there were certain
cures for every complaint in natur'--draps for the agur, the toothache, and the rhumatiz; salves
for ringworms, corns, frostbitten heels, and sore eyes; and pills for consumption and fall
fevers; beside that most valuable of all physic, Swain's Wormifuge."

The young people exclaimed with one accord against the purchase of any of the medicines; and
business being over, the tinman was invited by the farmer to sit down and take his supper with
the family--an invitation as freely accepted as given.

The twilight was now closing, but the full moon had risen, and afforded sufficient light for
the supper table in the porch.  The tinman took a seat, and before Mrs Warner had finished
her usual invitation to strangers, of--"reach to, and help thyself; we are poor hands at inviting,
but thee's welcome to it, such as it is"--he had already cut himself a huge piece of the cold
pork, and an enormous slice of bread. He next poured out a porringer of milk, to which he afterwards
added one-third of the peach pie, and several platesful of rice pudding.  He then said, "I
suppose you haven't got no cider about the house;" and Israel, at his father's request, immediately
brought up a pitcher of that liquor from the cellar.

During supper the tinman entertained his entertainers with anecdotes of the roguery of his
own countrymen, or rather, as he called them, his "statesmen."  In his opinion of their general
dishonesty, Mrs Warner most cordially joined.  She related a story of an itinerant Yankee who
persuaded her to empty some of her pillows and bolsters, under colour of exchanging with him
old feathers for new; a thing which she acknowledged had puzzled her not a little, as she thought
it strange that any man should bargain so badly for himself.  He produced from his cart a bag
of feathers which he declared were quite new; but after his departure she found that he had
given her such short measure that she had not half enough to fill her ticking, and most of
the feathers were proved, upon examination, to have belonged to chickens rather than to geese--nearly
a whole cock's tail having been found amongst them.

The farmer pointed into the open door of the house, and showed the tinman a large wooden clock
put up without a case between two windows, the pendulum and the weights being "exposed and
bare."  This clock he had bought for ten dollars of a travelling Yankee, who had set out to
supply the country with machines.  It had only kept tolerable time for about two months, and
had ever since been getting faster and faster, though it was still faithfully wound up every
week.  The hands were now going merrily round at the rate of ten miles an hour, and it never
struck less than twelve.

The Yankee tinman, with a candour that excited the admiration of the whole family, acknowledged
that his Statesmen were the greatest rogues "on the face of the yearth;" and recounted instances
of their trickery that would have startled the belief of any but the inexperienced and credulous
people who were now listening to him.  He told, for example, of sausages being brought to market
in an eastern town, that, when purchased and prepared for frying, were found to be filled with
chopped turnip and shreds of red flannel.

For once, thought the Warners, we have found an honest Yankee.

They sat a long time at table, and though the tinman seemed to talk all the time he was eating,
the quantity of victuals that he caused to disappear surprised even Mrs Warner, accustomed
as she was to the appetite of Israel.  When the Yankee had at last completed his supper, the
farmer invited him to stay all night; but he replied, "It was moonshiny, and fine cool travelling
after a warm day; he preferred putting on towards Maryland as soon as his creature was rested,
and had a feed."

He then, without more ceremony, led his horse and cart into the barn-yard, and stopping near
the stable door, fed the animal by the light of the moon, and carried him a bucket of water
from the pump.

The girls being reminded by their mother that it was late, and that the cows had long since
come home, they took their pails and went out to milk, while she washed up the supper things.
Whilst they were milking, the subsequent dialogue took place between them:--

Orphy.  I know it's not right to notice strangers, and to be sure the man's welcome, but, Amy,
did thee ever see anybody take victuals like this Yankee?

Amy.  Yes, but he didn't eat all he took, for I saw him slip a great chunk of bread and cheese
into his pocket, and then a big piece of pie, while he was talking and making us laugh.

Orphy.  Well, I think a man must be very badly off to do such a thing. I wonder he did not
ask for victuals to take away with him.  He need not have been afraid.  He must know that victuals
is no object.  And then he has travelled the roads long enough to be sure that he can get a
meal for nothing at any house he stops at, as all the tinmen do.  He must have seen us looking
at his eating so much, and may be his pride is hurt, and so he's made up his mind, all of a
sudden, to take his meals no more at people's houses.

Amy.  Then why can't he stop at a tavern, and pay for his victuals?

Orphy.  May be he don't want to spend his money in that trifling way. Who knows, he may be
saving it up to help an old mother, or to buy back land, or something of that sort?  I'll be
bound he calculates upon eating nothing to-morrow but what he slipped off from our table.

Amy.  All he took will not last him a day.  It's a pity of him, anyhow.

Orphy.  I wish he had not been too bashful to ask for victuals to take with him.

Amy.  And still he did not strike me at all as a bashful man.

Orphy.  Suppose we were just in a private way to put some victuals into his cart for him, without
letting him know anything about it! Let's hide it among the tins, and how glad he'll be when
he finds it to-morrow!

Amy.  So we will; that's an excellent notion!  I never pitied anybody so much since the day
the beggars came, which was five years ago last harvest; for I have kept count ever since;
and I remember it as well as if it was yesterday.

Orphy.  We don't know what a hard thing it is to want victuals, as the Irish schoolmaster used
to tell us when he saw us emptying pans of milk into the pig-trough, and turning the cows into
the orchard to eat the heaps of apples lying under the trees.

Amy.  Yes, and it must be worse for an American to want victuals than for people from the old
countries, who are used to it.

After they had finished their milking, and strained and put away their milk, the kind-hearted
little girls proceeded to accomplish their benevolent purpose.  They took from the large wire
safe in the cellar a pie, half a loaf of bread, and a great piece of cheese, and putting them
into a basket, they went to the barn-yard, intending to tell their mother as soon as the tinman
was gone, and not for one moment doubting her approval--since in the house of an American farmer,
victuals, as Orphy justly observed, are no object.

As they approached the barn-yard they saw, by the light of the moon, the Yankee coming away
from his cart, and returning to the house.  The girls crouched down behind the garden fence
till he had passed, and then cautiously proceeded on their errand.  They went to the back of
the cart, intending to deposit their provisions, when they were startled at seeing something
evidently alive moving behind the round opening of the linen cover; and in a moment the head
of a little black child peeped out of the hole.

The girls were so surprised that they stopped short and could not utter a word, and the young
negro, evidently afraid of being seen, immediately popped down its head among the tins.

"Amy, did thee see that?" asked Orphy in a low voice.

"Yes, I did so," replied Amy; "what can the Yankee be doing with that little nigger? and why
does he hide it?  Let's go and ask the child."

"No, no!" exclaimed Orphy, "the tinman will be angry."

"And who cares if he is?" said Amy; "he has done something he is ashamed of, and we need not
be afraid of him."

They went quite close to the back of the cart, and Amy said, "Here, little snow-ball, show
thyself and speak, and do not be afraid, for nobody's going to hurt thee."

"How did thee come into this cart?" asked Orphy, "and why does the Yankee hide thee?  Tell
us all about it, and be sure not to speak above thy breath."

The black child again peeped out of the hole, and looking cautiously round, said, "Are you
quite sure the naughty man won't hear us?"

"Quite sure," answered Amy; "but is thee boy or girl?"

"I'm a little gal," replied the child; and with the characteristic volubility of her race she
continued, "and my name's Dinah, and I'm five years old, and my daddy and mammy are free coloured
people, and they lives a big piece off, and daddy works out, and mammy sells gingerbread and
molasses-beer, and we have a sign over the door with a bottle and cake on it."

Amy.  But how did this man get hold of thee, if thy father and mother are free people?  Thee
can't be bound to him, or he need not hide thee.

Dinah.  Oh, I know, I ain't bounded to him; I expect he stole me.

Amy.  Stole thee!  What, here in the free state of Pennsylvania?

Dinah.  I was out picking huckle-berries in the woods up the roads, and I strayed off a big
piece from home.  Then the tinman comed along, driving his cart, and I run close to the side
of the road to look, as I always does when anybody goes by.  So he told me to come into his
cart, and he would give me a tin mug to put my huckle-berries in, and I might chuse it myself,
and it would hold them a heap better than my old Indian basket.  So I was very glad, and he
lifted me up into the cart; and I choosed the very best and biggest tin mug he had, and emptied
my huckle-berries into it.  And then he told me he'd give me a ride in his cart, and then he
set me far back on a box, and he whipped his creatur, and druv, and druv, and jolted me so,
I tumbled all down among the tins. And then he picked me up, and tied me fast with his handkercher
to one of the back posts of the cart, to keep me steady, he said.  And then, for all I was
steady, I couldn't help crying, and I wanted him to take me home to daddy and mammy.  But he
only sniggered at me, and said he wouldn't, and bid me hush; and then he got mad, and because
I couldn't hush up just in a minute, he whipped me quite smart.

Orphy.  Poor little thing!

Dinah.  And then I got frightened, for he put on a wicked look, and said he'd kill me dead
if I cried any more, or made the least noise. And so he has been carrying me along in his cart
for two days and two nights, and he makes me hide away all the time, and he won't let nobody
see me.  And I hate him, and yesterday, when I know'd he didn't see me, I spit on the crown
of his hat.

Amy.  Hush!  Thee must never say thee hates anybody.

Dinah.  At night I sleeps upon the bag of feathers; and when he stops anywhere to eat, he comes
sneaking to the back of the cart, and pokes in victuals (he has just now brung me some), and
he tells me he wants me to be fat and good-looking.  I was afeard he was going to sell me to
the butcher, as Nac Willet did his fat calf, and I thought I'd axe him about it, and he laughed
and told me he was going to sell me, sure enough, but not to a butcher.  And I'm almost all
the time very sorry, only sometimes I'm not; and then I should like to play with the tins,
only he won't let me.  I don't dare to cry out loud, for fear the naughty man would whip me,
but I always moan when we're going through woods, and there's nobody in sight to hear me. 
He never lets me look out of the back of the cart, only when there's nobody to see me, and
he won't let me sing even when I want to.  And I moan most when I think of daddy and mammy,
and how they are wondering what has become of me; and I think moaning does me good, only he
stops me short.

Amy.  Now, Orphy, what is to be done?  The tinman has, of course, kidnapped this black child
to take her into Maryland, where he can sell her for a good price, as she is a fat, healthy-looking
thing, and that is a slave state.  Does thee think we ought to let him take her off.

Orphy.  No, indeed!  I think I could feel free to fight for her myself; that is, if fighting
was not forbidden by Friends.  Yonder's Israel coming to turn the cows into the clover-field.
Little girl, lie quiet, and don't offer to show thyself.

Israel now advanced--"Well, girls," said he, "what's thee doing at the tinman's cart?  Not
meddling among his tins, I hope?  Oh, the curiosity of women folks!"

"Israel," said Amy, "step softly; we have something to show thee."

The girls then lifted up the corner of the cart-cover, and displayed the little negro girl,
crouched upon the bag of feathers--a part of his merchandise which the Yankee had not thought
it expedient to produce, after hearing Mrs Warner's anecdote of one of his predecessors.  The
young man was much amazed; and his two sisters began both at once to relate to him the story
of the black child.  Israel looked almost indignant.  His sisters said to him, "To be sure
we won't let the Yankee carry this child off with, him."

"I judge we won't," answered Israel.

"Then," said Amy, "let us take her out of the cart, and hide her in the barn, or somewhere,
till he is gone."

"No," replied Israel, "I can't say I feel free to do that.  It would be too much like stealing
her over again; and I've no notion of evening myself to a Yankee in any of his ways.  Put her
down in the cart, and let her alone.  I'll have no underhand work about her.  Let's all go
back to the house.  Mother has got down all the broken crockery from the top shelf in the corner
cupboard, and the Yankee's mending it with a sort of stuff like sticks of sealing-wax, that
he carries about with him; and I dare say he'll get her to pay him more for it than the things
are worth.  But I say nothing."

The girls cautioned Dinah not to let the tinman know that they had discovered her, and to keep
herself perfectly quiet; and they then accompanied their brother to the house, feeling very
fidgety and uneasy.

They found the table covered with old bowls, old tea-pots, old sugar dishes, and old pitchers,
the fractures of which the Yankee was cementing together, whilst Mrs Warner held the candle,
and her husband viewed the operation with great curiosity.

"Israel," said his mother, as he entered, "this friend is making the china as good as new,
only that we can't help seeing the join; and we are going to give all the mended things to thee."

The Yankee having finished his work, and been paid for it, said it was high time for him to
be about starting, and he must go and look after his cart.  He accordingly left the house for
that purpose; and Israel, looking out at the end window, said, "I see he's not coming round
to the house again, but going to try the short-cut into the back road.  I'll go and see that
he puts up the bars after him."

Israel went out, and his sisters followed him, to see the tinman off.

The Yankee came to the bars, leading his horse with the cart, and found Israel there before
him.  "Are you going to let down the bars for me?" said the tinman.

"No," replied Israel, "I'm not going to be so polite; but I intend to see that thee carries
off nothing more than belongs to thee."

"What do you mean?" exclaimed the Yankee, changing colour.

"I expect I can show thee," answered Israel.  Then, stepping up to the back of the cart, and
putting in his hands, he pulled out the black child, and held her up before him, saying, "Now,
if thee offers to touch this girl, I think we shall be apt to differ."

The tinman then advanced towards Israel, and, with a menacing look, raised his whip; but the
fearless young Quaker (having consigned the little girl to his sisters, who held her between
them) immediately broke a stick from a tree that grew near, and stood on the defensive, with
a most steadfast look of calm resolution.

The Yankee went close up to him, brandishing his whip, but, before he had time to strike, Israel,
with the utmost coolness, and with great strength and dexterity, seized him by the collar,
and swinging him round to some distance, flung him to the ground with such force as to stun
him, saying, "Mind I don't call myself a fighting character, but if thee offers to get up I
shall feel free to keep thee down."

The tinman began to move, and the girls ran shrieking to the house for their father, dragging
with them the little black girl, whose screams (as is usual with all of her colour) were the
loudest of the loud.

In an instant the stout old farmer was at the side of his son, and notwithstanding the struggle
of the Yankee, they succeeded by main force in conveying him to the stable, into which they
fastened him for the night.

Early next morning, Israel and his father went to the nearest magistrate for a warrant and
a constable, and were followed home by half the township.  The county court was then in session;
the tinman was tried, and convicted of having kidnapped a free black child, with the design
of selling her as a slave in one of the Southern States; and he was punished by fine and imprisonment.

The Warner family would have felt more compassion for him than they did, only that all the
mended china fell to pieces again the next day, and his tins were so badly soldered that all
their bottoms came out before the end of the month.

Mrs Warner declared that she had done with Yankee tinmen for ever, and in short with all other
Yankees.  But the storekeeper, Philip Thompson, who was the sensible man of the neighbourhood,
and took two Philadelphia newspapers, convinced her that some of the best and greatest men
America can boast of, were natives of the New England States; and he even asserted, that in
the course of his life (and his age did not exceed sixty-seven) he had met with no less than
five perfectly honest Yankee tinmen; and besides being honest, two of them were not in the
least impudent.  Amongst the latter, however, he did not of course include a very handsome
fellow, that a few years since made the tour of the United States with his tin-cart, calling
himself the Boston Beauty, and wearing his own miniature round his neck.

To conclude:--An advertisement having been inserted in several of the papers to designate where
Dinah, the little black girl, was to be found, and the tinman's trial having also been noticed
in the public prints, in about a fortnight her father and mother (two very decent free negroes)
arrived to claim her, having walked all the way from their cottage at the extremity of the
next county.  They immediately identified her, and the meeting was most joyful to them and
to her.  They told at full length every particular of their anxious search after their child,
which was ended by a gentleman bringing a newspaper to their house, containing the welcome
intelligence that she was safe at Micajah Warner's.

Amy and Orphy were desirous of retaining little Dinah in the family, and as the child's parents
seemed very willing, the girls urged their mother to keep her instead of Chloe, who, they said,
could very easily be made over to Israel.  But to the astonishment of the whole family, Israel
on this occasion proved refractory, declaring that he would not allow his wife to be plagued
with such an imp as Chloe, and that he chose to have little Dinah herself, if her parents would
bind her to him till she was eighteen.

This affair was soon satisfactorily arranged.

Israel was married at the appointed time, and took possession of the house near the saw-mill.
He prospered; and in a few years was able to buy a farm of his own, and to build a stone-house
on it.  Dinah turned out extremely well, and the Warner family still talk of the night when
she was discovered in the cart of the travelling tinman.

STORY THREE, CHAPTER 1.

THE BEAUTIFUL GATE.

One morning, by break of day, old Josiah, who lived in the little cottage he had built, on
the borders of the Great Forest, found his wife awake long before him--indeed she had scarcely
closed her eyes that night; and she was ready to speak the moment his eyes opened; for she
had promised their dear Tiny, their only child, that she would have a private talk with his
father.  So she said in a low, but distinct voice, as though she were talking to herself:

"I have nursed him, and watched over him year after year.  He has been like the sun shining
in my path, and precious as a flower.  There is not another like him.  I love him better than
I do my eyes.  If he were away I might as well be blind."

"That puts me in mind of what I've been dreaming," said the old man. "If I was only sure that
he would come at last to the Beautiful Gate, I wouldn't say another word.  But who can tell?
And it it actually happened that he lost his sight--poor Tiny!"

Josiah did not finish what he had begun to say, but hid his face in the bed-clothes, and then
the good wife knew that he was weeping, and her own tears began to fall, and she could not
say a word.

After breakfast, when Josiah had gone off into the woods, the mother told Tiny of this bit
of a conversation, but of course she could not explain about the dream.  She knew no more what
the boy's father had dreamed than you or I do, only she knew it was something curious and fanciful
about the Beautiful Gate.

Tiny listened with great interest to his mother's words, and he smiled as he kissed her when
she had done speaking; and he said, "Wait till this evening, mother dear, and you shall see."

And so she waited till the evening.

When they were gathered around the kitchen-fire at night, Tiny took down the harp that hung
on the kitchen wall.

It had hung there ever since the day that Tiny was born.  A poor old pilgrim gave it on that
very day to Josiah in exchange for a loaf of bread.  By that I do not mean that Josiah sold
the loaf to the poor old hungry pilgrim.  Josiah was too charitable to make a trade with a
beggar.  But the stranger said this strange thing to Josiah:--"I am near to death--I shall
sing no more--I am going home.  Keep my harp for me until a singer asks you for it, and promises
you that he will sing unto the Lord a New Song.  Give it to him; but be sure before you do
so that he is worthy to sing the song unto the Lord."

So Josiah had taken the harp home with him, and hung it on the wall, as I said, on the day
that Tiny was born.  And he waited for the coming of the poet who should have that wondrous
song to sing.

The father, when he saw what it was the boy would do, made a little move as if he would prevent
him; but the mother playfully caught the old man's hand, and held it in hers, while she said
aloud, "Only one song, Tiny.  Your father's rest was disturbed last night--so get through with
it as quickly as you can."

At these last words the old man looked well pleased, for he fancied that his wife agreed with
him, because he would not yet allow himself to believe that it was for his boy Tiny that the
old pilgrim left the harp.

And yet never was a sweeter voice than that of the young singer--old Josiah acknowledged that
to himself, and old Josiah knew--he was a judge of such things, for all his life he had been
singing songs in his heart.

Yes! though you would never have imagined such a thing, that is, if you are in the habit of
judging folks from their outward appearance--he had such a rough, wrinkled face, brown with
freckles and tan, such coarse, shaggy grey hair, and such a short, crooked, awkward figure,
you never would have guessed what songs he was for ever singing in his heart with his inward
voice--they were songs which worldly people would never hear--only God and the angels heard
them.  Only God and the holy angels!--for as to Kitty, though she was Josiah's best earthly
friend, though she knew he was such an excellent man, though she believed that there was not
a better man than he in all the world, though year by year he had been growing lovelier and
lovelier in her eyes--yes! though his hair, of course, became rougher and greyer, and his figure
more bent, and his hands harder, and his teeth were nearly all gone!--growing lovelier because
of his excellence, which increased with age as good wine does--still even she, who knew him
better than any person on earth, even she knew him so little that she never so much as dreamed
that this wonderful voice of Tiny's was but the echo of what had been going on in Josiah's
heart and mind ever since he was himself a child!

It was because he understood all this so very well that Josiah was troubled when he thought
about his son.

But to go back to the singer in the chimney-corner.  Tiny sat alone on his side of the fire-place,
in the little chair fashioned out of knotted twigs of oak which his father had made for him
long ago.  Opposite him were the old folks--the father with his arms folded on his broad chest,
the mother knitting beside him, now and then casting a sidelong glance at the old man to see
how it went with him.

Wonderful was that song which Tiny sung!

Even the winter wind seemed hushing its voice to hear it, and through the little windows looked
the astonished moon.

Josiah lifted up his eyes in great amazement as he heard it, as if he had altogether lost himself.
It was nothing like his dream that Tiny sang, though to be sure it was all about a Beautiful Gate.

Altogether about the Beautiful Gate! and of the young poet, who, passing through it, went his
way into the great Temple of the World, singing his great songs, borne like a conqueror with
a golden canopy carried over him, and a golden crown upon his head!  Riding upon a white horse
splendidly caparisoned, and crowds of people strewing multitudes of flowers before him!  And
of the lady who placed the victor's crown upon his head!  She was by his side, more beautiful
than any dream, rejoicing in his triumph, and leading him on towards her father's palace, the
Beautiful Pearl Gates of which were thrown wide open, and the king himself with a bare head
stood there on foot, to welcome the poet to the great feast.

With this the song ended, and with a grand sweep of the silver strings Tiny gently arose, and
hung the harp against the wall, and sat down again with folded hands and blushing cheek, half
frightened, now when all was over, to think what he had done.  The fire had vanished from his
eyes, and the red glow of his cheek went following after; and if you had gone into Josiah's
kitchen just then, you never would have guessed that he was the enchanter who had been raising
such a storm of splendid music.

At first the old man could not speak--tears choked his words.  "Ahem," said he once or twice,
and he cleared his voice with the intention of speaking; but for a long time no words followed.
At length he said, shaking his head,--"It isn't like what I dreamed--it isn't like what I dreamed;"
and one would have supposed that the old man felt himself guilty of a sin by the way he looked
at Tiny, it was with so very sad a look.

"But beautifuller," said the mother, "beautifuller, isn't it, Josiah!"

"Yes," answered Josiah; but still he spoke as if he had some secret misgiving--as if he were
not quite sure that the beauty of the song had a right to do away with the sadness of his dream.

"But," said Tiny, timidly, yet as if determined that he would have the matter quite settled
now and for ever--"am I a singer, father? am I a poet?"

Slowly came the answer--but it actually came, "Yes," with a broken voice and troubled look,
and then the old man buried his face in his hands, as if he had pronounced some dreadful doom
upon his only son.

"Then," said Tiny boldly, rising from his seat, "I must go into the world.  It says it needs
me; and father, shall your son hide himself when any one in need calls to him for help?  I
never would have gone, father, if you and mother had not said that I was a singer and a poet.
For you I know would never deceive me; and I made a vow that if ever a time came when you should
say that to me, then I would go.  But this is my home, father and mother; I shall never get
another.  The wide world could not give me one.  It is not rich enough to build me a home like
this."

"Don't speak in that way," said the old man; and he turned away that Tiny should not see his
face, and he bent his head upon the back of his chair.

Presently Tiny went softly up to him and laid his hand upon Josiah's arm, and his voice trembled
while he said, "Dear father, are you angry with me?"

"No, Tiny," said Josiah; "but what are you going to do with the world? You! ... my poor boy."

"Good!" said Tiny with a loud, courageous voice--as if he were prepared, single handed, to
fight all the evil there was in the world--"Good, father, or I would not have dared to take
the pilgrim's harp down from the wall.  I will sing," continued he still more hopefully, and
looking up smiling into the old man's face--"I will sing for the sick and the weary, and cheer
them; I will tell the people that God smiles on patient labour, and has a reward in store for
the faithful, better than gold and rubies.  I will get money for my songs, and feed the hungry;
I will comfort the afflicted; I will--"

"But," said Josiah solemnly, lifting his head from the back of the chair, and looking at Tiny
as if he would read every thought there was in the boy's heart, "What did all that mean about
the Beautiful Gate? Ah, my son, you were thinking more of your own pride and glory, than of
the miserable and the poor!"

"It was only to prove to you that I had a voice, and that I could sing, father," answered Tiny.

Long gazed Josiah upon the face of his son as he heard this.  Then he closed his eyes, and
bent his head, and Tiny knew that he was praying. That was a solemn silence--you could have
heard a pin drop on the kitchen floor.

Presently the old man arose, and without speaking, went softly and took the harp down from
the wall.  "Take it," said he, handing it to Tiny, "Take it--it is yours.  Do what you will.
The Lord direct your goings."

"Without your blessing, father?" said Tiny, stepping back and folding his arms upon his breast.
He would not take the harp.  Then, with both hands pressed on Tiny's head, the old man said,
"May God bless you, my son."

The old man's face was very calm then, and there was not a tear in his eyes as he spoke; he
had begun to hope again.  And he turned away from Tiny to comfort his poor wife.

"Many, many years we lived alone before our Tiny came," said he, "and we were very happy; and
we will be very happy yet, though he is going away. He is our all; but if the world needs him
he shall go and serve it." Nothing more said Josiah, for his heart was full--too full for further
speech.

Well, Tiny the singer went sailing down the river one bright morning, on a boat loaded with
wood, which in that part of the country is called lumber; his harp was on his arm, and the
rest of his worldly goods upon his back.

Tiny sat upon the top of the lumber, the most valuable part of the ship's load by far, though
the seamen and the owner of the lumber thought him only a silly country lad, who was going
down to the city, probably on a foolish errand.  And Tiny looked at the banks of the river,
right and left, as they floated down it, and thought of all the songs he would sing.

All the first day it was of the poor he would help, of the desolate hearts he would cheer,
of the weary lives he would encourage, that he thought; the world that had need of him should
never find him hard of hearing when it called to him for help.  And much he wondered--the poet
Tiny sailing down the river towards the world, how it happened that the world with all its
mighty riches, and its hosts on hosts of helpers, should ever stand in need of him!  But though
he wondered, his joy was none the less that it had happened so.  On the first night he dreamed
of pale faces growing rosy, and sad hearts becoming lighter, and weary hands strengthened,
all by his own efforts.  The world that had need of him felt itself better off on account of
his labours!

But on the second day of Tiny's journey other thoughts began to mingle with these.  About his
father and mother he thought, not in such a way as they would have been glad to know, but proudly
and loftily!  What could he do for them?  Bring home a name that the world never mentioned
except with praises and a blessing!  And that thought made his cheek glow and his eyes flash,
and at night he dreamed of a trumpeter shouting his name abroad, and going up the river to
tell old Josiah how famous his boy had become in the earth!

And the third day he dreamed, with his eyes wide open, the livelong day, of the Beautiful Gate,
and the palace of Fame and Wealth to which it led! and he saw himself entering therein, and
the multitude following him.  He ate upon a throne, and wise men came with gifts, and offered
them to him.  Alas, poor Tiny! the world had already too many helpers thinking just such thoughts--it
had need of no more coming with such offerings as these.  Would no one tell him so?  Would
no one tell him that the new song to be sung unto our Lord was very different from this?

At the end of the third day, Tiny's journey was ended...  And he was landed in the world...
Slowly the ship came sailing into harbour, and took its place among a thousand other ships,
and Tiny went ashore.

It was about sunset that Tiny found himself in the street of the great city.  The workmen were
going home from their labour, he thought at first; but could it be a city full of workmen?
he asked himself as the crowd passed by him and he stood gazing on the poor.  For he saw only
the poor: now and then something dazzling and splendid went past, but if he turned again to
discover what it was that made his eyes ache so with the brightness, the strange sight was
lost in the crowd, and all he could see were pale faces, and hungry voices, and the half-clad
forms of men, and women, and children.  And then he said to himself with a groan, "The city
is full of beggars."

As he said that, another thought occurred to Tiny, and he unfastened his harp, and touched
the strings.  But in the din and roar of the city wagons, and in the confusion of voices, for
every one seemed to be talking at the top of his voice, what chance had that harp-player of
being heard?  Still, though the crowd brushed past him as if there was no sound whatever in
the harp strings, and no power at all in the hand that struck them, Tiny kept on playing, and
presently he began to sing.

It was that they wanted--the living human voice, that trembled and grew strong again, that
was sorrowful and joyous, that prayed and wept, and gave thanks, just as the human heart does!
It was that the people wanted; and so well did they know their want that the moment Tiny began
to sing, the crowd going past him, heard his voice.  And the people gathered round him, and
more than one said to himself with joy, "Our brother has come at last!"

They gathered around him--the poor, and lame, and sick, and blind; ragged children, weary men,
desponding women, whose want and sorrow spoke from every look, and word, and dress.  Closely
they crowded around him; and angry voices were hushed, and troubled hearts for the moment forgot
their trouble, and the weary forgot that another day of toil was before them.  The pale woman
nearest Tiny who held the little baby in her arms, felt its limbs growing colder and colder,
and once she looked under her shawl and quickly laid her hand upon her darling's heart, but
though she knew then that the child was dead, still she stood there smiling, and looking up
towards heaven where Tiny's eyes so often looked, because at that very moment he was singing
of the Father in Heaven, whose house of many mansions is large enough for all the world.

It was strange to see the effect of Tiny's song upon those people!  How bright their faces
grew! kind words from a human heart are such an excellent medicine--they make such astonishing
cures!  You would have thought, had you been passing by the crowd that gathered around Tiny,
you would have thought an angel had been promising some good thing to them.  Whereas it was
only this young Tiny, this country lad, who had journeyed from the shadow of the Great Forest,
who was telling them of a good time surely coming!

When he had finished his song, Tiny would have put up his harp, and gone his way, but that
he could not do, because of the crowd.

"Sing again!" the people cried,--the beggars and rich men together (it was a long time since
they had spoken with one voice).  Did I tell you that a number of rich men had gathered, like
a sort of outer wall, around the crowd of poor people which stood next to Tiny?

"Sing again," they cried; and loud and clear above the other voices said one, "There is but
a solitary singer in the world that sings in such a strain as that.  And he, I thought, was
far away.  Can this be he?"

Then Tiny's heart leaped within him, hearing it, and he said to himself: "If my father and
mother were but here to see it!"  And he sang again-- and still for the poor, and the weary,
and the sick, and the faint-hearted, until the street became as silent as a church where the
minister is saying, "Glory be unto the Father."  And indeed it was just then a sacred temple,
where a sacred voice was preaching in a most sacred cause.

I'm sure you know by this time what the "cause" was?  And while he sang, the rich men of the
outer circle were busy among themselves, even while they listened, and presently the person
who had before spoken, made his way through the crowd, carrying a great purse filled with silver,
and he said, "You are the poet himself--do with this what you think best.  We have a long time
been looking for you in the world.  Come home with me, and dwell in my house, oh, Poet, I pray
you."

Tiny took the heavy purse, and looked at it, and from it to the people.

Then said he--oh, what melody was in his voice, how sweet his words!--"None of you but are
my friends--you are more--my brothers and sisters.  Come and tell me how much you need."  As
he spoke, he looked at the woman who stood nearest him, with the dead baby in her arms.  Her
eyes met his, and she threw back the old, ragged shawl, and showed him her little child.  "Give
me," said she, "only enough to bury it.  I want nothing for myself.  I had nothing but my baby
to care for."

The poet bowed his head over the little one, and fast his tears fell on the poor, pale face,
and like pearls the tears shone on the soft, white cheek, while he whispered in the ear of
the woman, "Their angels do always behold the face of Our Father."  And he gave her what she
needed, and gently covered the baby's face again with the tattered shawl, and the mother went away.

Then a child came up and said--now this was a poor street beggar, remember, a boy whom people
called as bold as a thief--he came and looked at Tiny, and said gently, as if speaking to an
elder brother whom he loved and trusted: "My father and mother are dead; I have a little brother
and sister at home, and they depend on me; I have been trying to get work, but no one believes
my story.  I would like to take a loaf of bread home to them."

And Tiny, looking at the boy, seemed to read his heart, and he said, laying his hand on the
poor fellow's shoulder, "Be always as patient, and gentle, and believing as you are now, and
you will have bread for them and to spare, without fear."

Then came an old, old man bending on his staff, and he spoke out sharply, as if he were half
starved, and all he said was, "Bread!" and with that he held out his hand as if all he had
to do was to ask, in order to get what he wanted.

For a moment Tiny made him no answer, and some persons who had heard the demand, and saw that
Tiny gave him nothing, began to laugh.  But at that sound Tiny rebuked them with his look,
and put his hand into the purse.

The old man saw all this, and he said, "I am tired of begging, I am tired of saying, `for mercy's
sake give to me,'--for people don't have mercy--they know nothing about being merciful, and
they don't care for mercy's sake.  I don't beg of you, Mr Poet.  I only ask you as if you were
my son, and that's all.  Give me bread.  I'm starving."

And Tiny said, "For my dear father's sake take this--God forbid that I should ever be deaf
when an old man with a wrinkled face and white hair speaks to me."

Afar off stood a young girl looking at the poet.  Tiny saw her, and that she needed something
of him, though she did not come and ask, and so he beckoned to her.  She came at that, and
as she drew nearer he fancied that she had been weeping, and that her grief had kept her back.
She had wept so violently that when Tiny spoke to her and said, "What is it?" she could not
answer him.  But at length, while he waited so patiently, she made a great effort, and controlled
herself and said, "My mother!"

That was all she said--and Tiny asked no more.  He knew that some great grief had fallen on
her--that was all he needed to know; he laid his hand in hers, and turned away before she could
thank him, but he left with her a word that he had spoken which had power to comfort her long
after the money he gave her was all gone--long after the day when her poor mother had no more
need for bread.  "When my father and mother forsake me, then the Lord will lift me up."  That
was what he whispered to her as he left her.

And thus he went through that crowd of miserable people, comforting them all.  But it was remarkable
how much more value the poor folks seemed to put upon his word than they did upon the money
he gave them, much as they stood in need of that!  I wonder if you ever thought about the wonderful
power there is in words?

At length, when the purse was empty, he stood alone in the midst of the circle of rich men
who had given him the silver to distribute as he would.  Then the man who handed him the purse
went up and said to Tiny, "Poet, come home with me.  You are come at last! the city ought to
be illuminated--we have stood so long in need of you, expecting you."

So Tiny, believing what the rich man said, went home with the stranger-- and for a long time
he abode in that house.

And rich men feasted Tiny, and taught him to drink wine: and great men praised him, and flattered
him till he believed that their praise was precious above all things, and that he could not
live without it!  Was not that absurd?  Nay, children, was not that most terrible, that our
dear Tiny should ever have been tempted to believe such wicked trash and falsehood!  He, too,
who was to sing that sweet and holy New Song to the Lord!

They surrounded him day and night, these rich, gay men, and these great men, and they fed upon
the delicious thoughts he gave them, and they kept him in such a whirl of pleasure that he
had no time to work for the poor, and hardly any time to think of them--excepting at the dead
of night, when he sometimes fancied or dreamed that the old pilgrim owner of the harp had come,
or would come quickly, and take it away from him. At these times poor Tiny would make excellent
resolutions, but the next day was sure to see them broken.  He seemed no stronger when he attempted
to keep them than a poor little bird who is determined that he will be free, and so goes driving
against the wires of his cage!

When Tiny spoke with his friend, as he sometimes did, about the plan with which he had come
into the world, his friend always made him very polite answers, and good promises--oh, yes,
certainly he would do all that he could to help him on in such an excellent cause!  But the
fact was, he did everything to prevent him.  I wonder if anybody else has got any such friend
in his heart, or in his house, as our Tiny found in his very first walk through that city street?
If I knew of any one that had, I should say, look out for him!  Beware of him.

And so Tiny lived, and presently it happened just as you would expect; his conscience troubled
him no longer; he only sang such songs on feast days, and holidays, and even in the church,
as his companions liked; and he became very well pleased with his employment!  That was the
very worst of it.

I shall tell you in a very few words what happened next.  Tiny suddenly fell ill of a very
curious disease, which caused all his rich friends to forsake him, and he almost died of it.

In those days his only helper was a poor young beggar girl--one of those persons whom he had
relieved by his songs, and by the money he distributed from the rich man's purse that happy
day,--the little girl who had wept so bitterly, and whose only word was, when he questioned
her,--"My mother!"

He recovered from his disease in time, but all his old acquaintances had forsaken him; and
he must have felt their loss exceedingly, for now he had an attack of a desperate complaint,
which I pray you may never have!--called Despair--and Tiny crept away from the sight of all
men, into a garret, and thought that he would die there.

A garret at Home is a very different place from a garret in the World; and so our poet thought,
when he compared this miserable, dismal place with the little attic far, far away in his own
father's cottage, where he was next-door neighbour to the swallows who slept in their little
mud cabins under the cottage eaves!

Never in his life was Tiny so lonely.  He had come to help the World, said he, talking to himself,
and the World cared not half so much about it as it would about the doings of a wonderful "learned
pig," or the extraordinary spectacle of a man cutting profiles with his toes in black paper!

"Have you been all the while helping the World, and is this all the pay you get?" said the
girl, his poor friend, who remembered what he had done for her, when she was in her worst need.

"Yes," said Tiny; but there was no truth in what he said.  He did not intend to speak falsely,
however,--which proves the sad pass he had arrived at; he did not even know when he was deceiving
himself!  And when Tiny said, that "yes," what do you suppose he thought of?  Not of all the
precious time that he had wasted--not of the Pilgrim's Harp--not of the promises he had made
his father--nor of the great hope of the poor which he had no cruelly disappointed--but only
of the evil fortune which had fallen on himself!  This beggar girl to wait on him, instead
of the most beautiful lady in the world for a crown bearer!  This garret for a home, instead
of a place at the king's table.  And more fiercely than ever raged that sickness called Despair.

But at length his strength began to return to him a little, and then for the first time poor
Tiny discovered that he was blind.  And all the days and weeks that came and went were like
one long, dark night.  In those dreadful days our singer had nothing to do but to think, and
the little beggar girl had nothing to do but to beg; for Tiny's charity and goodness of heart
seemed to have all forsaken him, and one day in his anger he drove her out of his garret, and
bade her return no more, for that the very thought of her was hateful to him.  In doing this,
Tiny brought a terrible calamity upon himself; he fell against his harp and broke it.

After that, while he sat pondering on the sad plight he was in, hungry and cold and blind,
he suddenly started up.  A new thought had come to him.  "I will go home to my father's house,"
he said.  "There is no other way for me.  Oh, my mother!" and bitterly he wept as he pronounced
that name, and thought how little like her tender and serene love was the love of the best
of all the friends he had found in that great city of the world.

As he started up so quickly in a sort of frenzy, his foot struck against the broken harp, and
instantly the instrument gave forth a wailing sound, that pierced the poet's heart.  He lifted
up the harp: alas! it was so broken he could do nothing with it; from his hands it fell back
upon the floor where it had lain neglected, forgotten, so long.  But Tiny's heart was now fairly
awakened, and stooping to the floor, he raised the precious treasure again.  "I will carry
back the broken fragments," said he; "they shall go back to my father with me.  The harp is
his; I can do nothing more with it for ever.  I have ruined it; I have done nothing for the
world, as I promised him.  A fine thing it is for me to go back to him in this dreadful plight.
But if he says to me, `Thou art no son of mine,' I will say, `Father, I am no more worthy to
be called thy son; make me thy hired servant--only pay me in love.'"

And so saying, Tiny began to descend from his attic.  Carefully he went down the stairs, ready
to ask help of the first person whose voice he should hear.  But he had groped his way as far
as the street door, before he met a soul.  As he stepped upon the threshold, and was about
to move on into the street, a voice--a child's voice--said to him--

"I'm very hungry, sir."

The patient tone of the speaker arrested Tiny's steps, and he pondered a moment.  It was the
hearts that belonged to voices like this, which he had vowed to help!  His own heart sunk within
him at that thought. "Wretched soul that I am," said he to himself, thinking of the opportunities
which he had lost.  But to the child he said--

"I'm blinder than a bat, and hungry, too.  So I'm worse off than you are.  Do you live about here?"

"Just round the corner," said the little girl.

"Is there a physician near here?" he asked next; for a now thought--a new hope, rather--had
come into his heart.

"Yes, sir--very near.  I know where it is," said the child.  "I got him once for my mother."

"If you will lead me to him," said Tiny, his voice broken as his heart was, "I will do a good
turn for you.  You won't be the loser by it.  Who takes care of you?"

"Of me, sir?" asked the girl, as if surprised that he should think that any one took care of
her.  "Nobody.  I'm all alone."

"Alone! alone!" repeated Tiny: "your hand is very little; you are a mite of a girl to be alone."

"They're all dead but me, every one of 'em.  Yes, sir, they are."

"No mother?" said Tiny, with a choking voice--thinking of the kind heart and tender loving
eyes away off in the lonely little cottage on the border of the forest--"no mother, little
girl?  Was that what you said?"

"Dead," replied the child.

"Did you love her?" asked Tiny, the poet, while his heart wept burning tears.

The girl said not a word, but Tiny heard her sob, and held her hand close in his own, as though
he would protect her, even if he were blind, while he said aloud--

"Lead me to the physician, little friend."

Quietly and swiftly she led him, and as they went, Tiny never once thought, What if any of
the great folks who once courted and praised him should see him led on foot through the streets
by a little beggar girl, himself looking hardly more respectable than the poorest of all beggars!

"Shall I ring the door bell?" asked she, at length coming to a sudden halt.

"King it," said he.

But before she could do that the house door opened, and the physician himself appeared, prepared
for a drive; his carriage was already in waiting at the door.

"Here he is," exclaimed the girl; and at the same moment a gruff voice demanded--

"What do you want, you two, eh?  Speak quick, for I'm off."

In one word Tiny told what it was he wanted.

"Blind, eh?" said the doctor, stooping and looking into the pale face of the unhappy singer;
"born blind!  I can do nothing for you.  John! drive the horses away from that curb-stone."

He stepped forward, as he spoke, as if about to leave the children, but he stood still again
the next minute, arrested by the sound of Tiny's indignant voice.

"Born blind!" the singer cried; "no more than you were, sir.  If you knew how to use your eyes
to any good purpose, you never would say such a thing.  Since I was ill I've been blind, but
never a moment before."

"Come into the house a minute," said the doctor, who had been carefully studying Tiny's face
during the last few seconds.  "Come in, and I'll soon settle that point for you."

"For yourself, you mean," said Tiny, in an under tone, as he and the beggar girl went in.

"What's that you carry?" said the physician.  "Lay down your pack for a moment."

But Tiny would not do that.  He had taken up his harp in much the same spirit as if it had
been a cross, and he was determined never to lay it down again until he came to his father's
house.  So he merely said, "Don't call it a pack; it was a harp once, but now it's only some
bits of wood and cord."

"Broken!" said the doctor; and you would have been in doubt, if you had heard him, as to whether
he meant Tiny's harp or heart.  "Broken! ah, ...;" and he seemed to get a little new light
on the subject when he looked again into Tiny's face.  "Ah," he said again, and still more
thoughtfully; "now! about those eyes.  You went into a great rage just now when I told you
that you were born blind.  On a closer examination of them, I am still tempted to think that
if you were not born blind, you never had the full use of your eyes.  How are you going to
prove to me that I'm mistaken?  If you can prove that it came after your sickness,"--he hesitated
a little--"I'm not so sure but that something might be done for you."

At that Tiny's anger was not much lessened; and he was in doubt as to what he should do, until
the child said to him, "Sing to him about your mother."  The words had the effect of a broad
ray of light streaming into a dark and dismal place, and without another word Tiny began to
sing.  His voice was faint and broken; it never once rose into a high strain of pride, as if
he had his merits as a singer to support; he sung with tears, and such pathos as singer never
did before, of his Mother and her Love.  By the words of his song he brought her there into
that very room, with her good and pleasant looks, her loving eyes and tender smile, so that
they who heard could also behold her.  He sung of all that she had been to him in his childhood,
of the brightness she made in their home, of all that she had done for him, and concluded with
the prayerful longing that his eyes might once more receive their sight, that so he might behold
her.

"The doctor is weeping," whispered the little girl in Tiny's ear.

It was a long time before the doctor spoke; but at length he arose and laid some pieces of
silver in Tiny's hand; and he said, "I cannot help you.  But what you have to do is to go to
the Beautiful Gate, and there you will find a physician famous for the cure of such cases as
yours. True enough you weren't born blind--far from it.  I ask your pardon for the mistake.
I wish there were more blind in the way you were.  Go your way to the Beautiful Gate."

As the doctor spoke he arose and walked quickly towards the door, and the children followed
him out.  All at once Tiny recollected that they had yet one very important thing to learn,
and he cried out--

"But, sir, which way shall we go in order to arrive at the Beautiful Gate?"

Too late! while he spoke the doctor stepped into his carriage, the coachman closed the door
with a loud bang and drove away, and Tiny and the little girl were left quite in the dark as
to what they should do next.  For a long time they stood still in perfect silence.  At last
Tiny said, "Lead the way, little girl, for I am blind and cannot see. Come! we will go on,
if you have an idea that we shall ever come to the BEAUTIFUL GATE."

"In all my life I never heard of it before," said she sadly.

"But I have," cried Tiny, trying to keep his courage up by speaking brave words.  "Come on
with me!" yet, in spite of his words, he held fast to the girl's hand, and she led him down
the street.

Presently, towards nightfall, they came up to a crowd of people, a mob of men and boys who
were quarrelling.

Well did Tiny understand the angry sound; and, as for the girl walking with him, she trembled
with fear, and said, "Shall we turn down this street?  They are having a terrible fight.  I
am afraid you will be hurt."

"Not I," said Tiny.  "Is the sun near setting?"

"It has set," said the girl.

"And does the red light shine on the men's faces?" asked the poet.

"Yes," answered the girl, wondering.

"On the night when I first came into this city's streets it was so.  My harp was perfect then;
but it was the voice, and not the other music, that the people eared for, when I sang.  Wait now."

The little girl obediently stood still, and all at once Tiny began to sing.  None of his gay
songs sung at feasts, and revels, or on holidays, but a song of peace, as grand and solemn
as a psalm; and the quarrelling men and boys stood still and listened, and, before the song
was ended, the ringleaders of the fight had crept away in shame.  Other voices then began to
shout in praise of the young stranger, who with a few simple words had stilled their angry
passions.  "The brave fellow is blind," said they; "we will do something good for him!"  And
one, and another, and another, cried out, "Come with us, and we will do you good."

But instead of answering a word, Tiny went his way as if he were deaf as a post, as well as
blind as a bat, and by his side, holding his hand close, went the little beggar girl.

Until they came in the increasing darkness to a narrow, crooked lane, and met a woman who was
running, crying, with a young child in her arms. "What is this?" asked Tiny.

"A woman, pale as death, with a child in her arms," said the girl.

"Wait!" shouted Tiny, stopping just before the woman.  His cry so astonished her that she stood,
in an instant, as still as a statue. "What is it that you want?"

"Food! medicine! clothes! a home!" answered she, with a loud cry.

"Give me the child--take this--get what you need, and I will wait here with the little one,"
said Tiny.

Without a word the woman gave her child--it was a poor little cripple-- into his arms; and
then she went on to obey him; and softly on the evening air, in that damp, dismal lane, arose
the songs which Tiny sang to soothe and comfort the poor little creature.  And in his arms
it slept, hushed by the melody, a slumber such as had not for a long time visited his eyes.

Wonderful singer! blessed songs! sung for a wretched sickly stranger, who could not even thank
him!  But you think they died away upon the air, those songs? that they did no other good than
merely hushing a hungry child to sleep?

A student in an attic heard the song, and smiled, and murmured to himself, "That is like having
a long walk in in the woods, and hearing all the birds sing."

A sick girl, who had writhed upon her bed in pain all the day, heard the gentle singing voice,
and it was like a charm upon her--she lay resting in a sweet calm, and said, "Hark! it is an
angel!"  A blind old man started up from a troubled slumber, and smiled a happy smile that
said as plain as any voice, "It gives me back my youth, my children, and my country home;"
and he smiled again and again, and listened at his window, scarcely daring to breathe lest
he should lose a single word.  A baby clad in rags, and sheltered from the cold with them,
a baby in its cradle--what do you think that cradle was? as truly as you live, nothing but
a box such as a merchant packs his goods in! that baby, sleeping, heard it, and a light like
sunshine spread over its pretty face.  A thief skulking along in the shadow of the great high
building, heard that voice and was struck to the heart, and crept back to his den, and did
no wicked thing that night.  A prisoner who was condemned to die heard it in his cell near
by, and he forgot his chains, and dreamed that he was once more innocent and free--a boy playing
with his mates, and loved and trusted by them.

At length the mother of the crippled infant came back, and brought food for her child, and
a warm blanket for it, and she, and Tiny, and the beggar girl, Tiny's companion, ate their
supper there upon the sidewalk of that dark, narrow lane, and then they went their separate
ways--Tiny and his friend, taking the poor woman's blessing with them, going in one direction,
and the mother and her baby in another, but they all slept in the street that night.

The next morning by daybreak Tiny was again on his way down that same long, narrow, dingy street,
the little girl still walking by his side. Swiftly they walked, and in silence, like persons
who are sure of their destination, and know that they are in the right way, though they had
not said a word to each other on that subject since they set out in the path.

"What is that?" at length asked Tiny, stopping short in the street.

"A tolling bell," said the girl.

"Do you see a funeral?"

"Yes; don't you?"

Tiny made no answer at first; at length he said, "Let us go into the churchyard;" and he waited
for the beggar girl to lead the way, which she did, and together they went in at the open churchyard
gate.

As they did so, a clergyman was thanking the friends who had kindly come to help in burying
the mother of orphan children.  Tiny heard that word, and he said to the girl, whose name,
I ought long ago to have told you, was Grace--he said, "Are there many friends with the children?"

"No," she answered sadly.

"Are the people poor?" he asked.

"Yes, very poor," said she.

Then Tiny stepped forward when the clergyman had done speaking, and raised a Hymn for the Dead,
and a prayer to the Father of the fatherless.

When he had made an end, he stepped back again, and took the hand of Grace, and walked away
with her in the deep silence, for everybody in the churchyard was weeping.  But as they went
through the gate the silence was broken, and Tiny heard the clergyman saying, "Weep no longer,
children; my house shall be your home, my wife shall be your mother.  Come, let us go back
to our home."

And Grace and Tiny went their way.  On, and on, and on, through the narrow filthy street, out
into the open country,--through a desert, and a forest; and it seemed as if poor Tiny would
sing his very life away. For wherever those appeared who seemed to need the voice of human
pity, or brotherly love, or any act of charity, the voice and Hand of Tiny were upraised. 
And every hour, whichever way he went, he found THE WORLD HAD NEED OF HIM!

They had no better guide than that with which they set out on their search for the BEAUTIFUL
GATE.  But Tiny's heart was opened, and it led him wherever there was misery, and want, and
sin, and grief; and flowers grew up in the path he trod, and sparkling springs burst forth
in desert places.

And then as to his blindness.

Fast he held by the hand of the beggar girl as they went on their way together, but the film
was withdrawing from his eye-balls.  When he turned them up towards the heaven, if they could
not yet discern that, they could get a glimpse of the earth!  So he said within himself, "Surely
we are in the right way; we shall yet come to the Beautiful Gate, and I shall have my sight
again.  Then will I hasten to my father's house, and when all is forgiven me, I will say to
my mother, Receive this child I bring thee for a daughter, for she has been my guide through
a weary way; and I know that my mother will love my little sister Grace."

"And what then?" asked a voice in Tiny's soul, "What then wilt thou do?"

"Labour till I die!" exclaimed Tiny aloud, with flashing eyes.

"But for what, Poet, wilt thou labour?"

"FOR THE POOR WORLD THAT NEEDS ME," bravely cried he with a mighty voice.

"Ah," whispered something faintly in his ear, with a taunting voice that pierced his heart
like a sharp sword--"Ah, you said that once before; and fine work you made of it!"

Tiny made no answer to this taunt, with words, but with all the strength of his great poet
mind he cried again, "For the poor world that needs me!" and the vow was registered in Heaven,
and angels were sent to strengthen him in that determination--him who was to sing the New Song
to the Lord.

A long way further Grace and Tiny walked together on their journey; they walked in silence,
thinking so fast that, without knowing it, they were almost on a run in the attempt their feet
were making to keep pace with their thoughts.  At length Grace broke the silence with a sudden
cry--

"Oh, Tiny! what is this?"

Tiny looked up at the sound of her voice, and then he stood stock still as if he were turned
to stone.

"Oh, Tiny! can you see?" again exclaimed Grace, who was watching her companion's face in a
great wonder; it became so changed all at once. "Oh, Tiny, Tiny, can you see?" she cried again,
in terror, for he did not answer her, but grew paler and paler, swaying to and fro like a reed
in the wind, until he fell like one dead upon the ground, saying--"My home! my home! and the
Beautiful Gate is here!"

Just then an old man came slowly from the forest, near to which they had come in their journey.
His head was bent, he moved slowly like one in troubled thought, and as he walked he said to
himself, "Long have I toiled, bringing these forest trees into this shape; and people know
what I have done--of their own free will they call it a Beautiful Gate. But oh, if I could
only find the blind one lying before it, ready to be carried through it to his mother! then,
indeed, it would be beautiful to me.  Oh Tiny! oh my child, when wilt thou return from thy
long wanderings?"

"Please, sir," said a child's voice--it was the voice of our little Grace, you know--"please,
sir, will you come and help me?" and she ran back to the place where Tiny lay.

Swiftly as a bird on wing went Josiah with the child.  Without a word he lifted up the senseless
Poet and the Broken Harp; and with the precious burden passed on through the Beautiful Gate
of the Forest, into the Cottage Home--Grace following him!

Once more the Broken Harp hung on the kitchen wall--no longer broken. Once more the swallows
and the poet slept side by side, in their comfortable nests.  Once more old Kitty's eyes grew
bright.  Once more Josiah smiled.  Again a singing voice went echoing through the world, working
miracles of good.  Rich men heard it and opened their purses. Proud men heard it and grew humble.
Angry voices heard it and grew soft.  Wicked spirits heard it and grew beautiful in charities.
The sick, and sad, and desolate heard it and were at peace.  Mourners heard it and rejoiced.
The songs that voice sang, echoed through the churches, through the streets; and by ten thousand
thousand firesides they were sung again and yet again.  But all the while the great heart,
the mighty, loving human heart from which they came, was nestled in that little nest of home
on the border of the forest, far away from all the world's temptations, in the safe shelter
of a household's love.

STORY FOUR, CHAPTER 1.  At first there appeared to be nothing remarkable.

"Never mind, my brave Pegasus!" cried Bellerophon.

But the Chimaera was so mad and wild with pain, that it did not guard itself so well as might
else have been the case.  For, gentle and tender as he was, he grew to be a mighty poet!

