Mr. Brett was at the same time ordered to set the whole town on fire, except the two churches
(which by good fortune stood at some distance from the other houses), and then he was to abandon
the place and to come on board. And the part of the beach where he intended to embark being
an open place without the town, the Spaniards on the hill, perceiving he was retreating, resolved
to try if they could not precipitate his departure. For this purpose a small squadron of their
horse, consisting of about sixty, picked out as I suppose for this service, marched down the
hill with much seeming resolution; so that, had we not been prepossessed with a juster opinion
of their prowess, we might have suspected that, now we were on the open beach with no advantage
of situation, they would certainly have charged us. But we presumed (and we were not mistaken)
that this was mere ostentation; for, notwithstanding the pomp and parade they advanced with,
Mr. Brett had no sooner ordered his men to halt and face about, but the enemy stopped their
career and never dared to advance a step farther.

ENGLISH HUMANITY.

There remains, before I take leave of this place, another particularity to be mentioned, which,
on account of the great honour which our national character in those parts has thence received,
and the reputation which our Commodore in particular has thereby acquired, merits a distinct
and circumstantial discussion. It has been already related that all the prisoners taken by
us in our preceding prizes were put on shore and discharged at this place; amongst which there
were some persons of considerable distinction, particularly a youth of about seventeen years
of age, son of the Vice-President of the Council of Chili. Tempted to win Pascual Alarapita Orellana,
for the softness: he wrote them, urging should ask forgiveness and take refuge under the flags
the Sovereign, putting his devotion Chucuito province, and to surrender any that attempted
to destroy his influence with the thought, but he persisted in his crimes and full of pride,
refused to answer, and only in a note he wrote to the prisoner Isidro Mamani, made mention of
the letter to assure you boldly, that without reading it had delivered the to the flames adding
many threats against Orellana and others who tried to defend to Puno, so that left no doubt
that his intent was to meet with the rebel body, Diego sent by Tupac Amaru, and together we
grapple with every effort that town. Orellana determined in this predicament last resort,
to dispatch a special magistrate Arequipa, asking him to help people, food and ammunition, to whose
practice did not occurrences rather than later.

Tupac-Amaru Diego hurried he could his prejudices, he appeared with all his strength On the 7th
of May, in the highest immediate Puno, sending troops to extend those Mountains to the roar of
the artillery, boxes and bugles. Orellana is not neglected to take few considered appropriate
precautions to avoid being caught that night, but the enemy made no move, until one afternoon
the following day, which was up to attack the Indians faithful who were stationed at the Hill
of Quicksilver, and having managed to evict them, dropped them back to the Castillo de Santa Barbara
with much momentum, it was necessary to sustain the garrison to come out, thus starting the
action on that side, which soon became general, and it was necessary to oppose the cavalry the
part of the campaign, and highlight some pickets rifle to contain about the church of San
Juan, where they made their best efforts to fill that post, and though lasted for a long time
of stubbornness and resistance from both sides, were finally rejected with loss of some of their
own, and without significant harm us.


All the prisoners left us with the strongest assurances of their grateful remembrance of his
uncommon treatment. A Jesuit, in particular, whom the Commodore had taken, and who was an ecclesiastic
of some distinction, could not help expressing himself with great thankfulness for the civilities
he and his countrymen had found on board, declaring that he should consider it as his duty
to do Mr. Anson justice at all times.

When we got under sail from the road of Paita we stood to the westward, and in the morning
the Commodore gave orders that the whole squadron should spread themselves, in order to look
out for the Gloucester; for we now drew near to the station where Captain Mitchel had been
directed to cruise, and hourly expected to get sight of him, but the whole day passed without
seeing him.

DOLLARS AMONGST THE COTTON.

At night having no sight of the Gloucester, the Commodore ordered the squadron to bring to,
that we might not pass her in the dark. The next morning we again looked out for her, and at
ten we saw a sail, to which we gave chase, and at two in the afternoon we came near enough
her to discover her to be the Gloucester, with a small vessel in tow. 

  Record will not stop, and I remember that during the representation
  keep their hats all spectators There standing in the parterre and
  is on the right and left between the wall and chairs, custom did
  not seem extremely polite.
  

  There are many good cars Milan public, regular hotels reading rooms,
  theaters, tours, good cafes and beautiful women.
  

  The Austrians, of whom speak little, because I extol the just
  remember, patrolling day and night on the town, ring their swords
  in the first row of seats at La Scala, they belongs, from thinking
  and talking, etc..

  
  In Milan, were addressed to me at the poetic and heroic unfortunate
  Venice. I left Milan to Treviglio iron line, an hour way: there
  I took a bus that took me three hours to Cucallo, and thence
  to Venice railway, using nine hours.

  
  
  The stations of the railway lines that start in Milan, are poor
  and poorly made: to go up to the coaches needed show your passport
on the road calling ten or twelve times within the same cars as far
along.

  
  
  Around Milan are admirable: I have seen three different lines,
  and all over the countryside flaunts fresh, and enriched with
  a profuse vegetation. From Milan to Treviglio not found any
  people of importance: Cucallo at Venice, are the cities
  of Brescia, Verona, Vicenza and Padua, all except the last, to the
left going to Venice from Milan.

  
  
  The first is found Brescia, a city of forty thousand inhabitants,
  situated at the foot and on a mountain: I saw one of step, has
  very nice appearance, and many elegant towers. Between Brescia
  and Verona, we present the very pretty Lake Garda thirty miles
  of extension, the largest in Italy, from through which steam is excellent
trip to Trento, Tyrol and several other points. As we advanced apace towards our
station our hopes began to revive, for though the customary season of the arrival of the galleon
at Acapulco was already elapsed, yet we were by this time unreasonable enough to flatter ourselves
that some accidental delay might, for our advantage, lengthen out her passage beyond its usual
limits.

(*Note. Off Cape Corrientes (20 degrees 20 minutes north). Anson hoped to intercept the Manila
galleon here.)

A MORTIFYING DELUSION. And yet I believe there was no person on board who doubted of its being
a ship's light, or of its being near at hand.

At sun-rising, after this mortifying delusion, we found ourselves about nine leagues off the land.

And now, being in the track of the Manila galleon, it was a great doubt with us (as it was
near the end of January) whether she was or was not arrived. To execute this project, the barge
was despatched the 6th of February.

(*Note.

CHAPTER 22. THE Manila* TRADE.

(*Note. The capital of Luzon, the chief island of the Philippine group. The Philippines were
discovered in 1521 by Magellan, who was killed there by the natives. They were annexed by Spain
in 1571 and were ceded to the United States of America in 1898, together with Cuba, after the
brave but futile attempt of the Spaniards to preserve what were almost the last relics of their
colonial dominions.)

The trade carried on from Manila to China, and different parts of India, is principally for
such commodities as are intended to supply the kingdoms of Mexico and Peru. In a magnificent chapel in the same church,
  is the marvelous painting of the Crucifixion, by Tintoretto:
  The Battle of Lepanto, for the same. In this chapel the altar of
  the Rosary, built immediately after the famous naval battle of
  Lepanto, is surrounded by tables and wonderful statues, the
  walls surrounding the altar are elegantly dressed admirable
  bas-reliefs with Torreti statues, was master of Canova,
  the three ships the temple are very high.
  

  Playing with the church is the Civil Hospital, fronted marble and
  cedar.

  
  The church of the Jesuits, on the other side of the Grand
  Canal, with rich facades of marble statues that support columns
  Corinthian: The floor of the interior, marble, the roof cool.
  Entering the first altar on the left, a picture inimitable
  the great Titian, representing the martyrdom of St. Lorenzo,
  a masterpiece, like everything that flowed from his inspired
  palette. The walls of the church, mosaic, and the pulpit carved
  in Greek marble, so graceful in execution staggering: close
  to the altar, to the left, a divine represents Tintoretto painting
  of Paradise: the presbytery has an inlaid marble floor, so masterfully
  done that it is necessary, indispensable, touch it with bare
  hands to persuaded that there is a carpet. The tabernacle is
  lapiz lazuli, on all sides there are statues of Sansovino, batteries
  holy water is made of marble from Egypt.

  
  
  Is it not seem ironic that so much art, so genius met? Are not museums,
  and wonderful museums, churches Venice?

  "It is certainly remarkable that in one church has everything I
  have noted briefly?

  
  Ah! nothing like Venice, its impression will last me forever, art
is there everywhere, and what art!

  How clever!
  
  And we only read the notes from my wallet, I saw everything, There
  is much more, is admirable.
  
  Traveling through my notes I see that there is still something to
  say about Health Church: in the sacristy, there are four tables
  Titian, the glory of art, one of which represents St. Mark: are
  in the same church a separate chapel Health dedicated to
  the Virgin, two elegant columns, statues marble, was built in 1670
after a harrowing epidemic, the Plague is here represented by an old,
excellent idea.

  In the whole temple is not nothing but marble, jasper precious Titian,
  Sansovino, the way the church is circular, superb cupola, pictures
  of Jordan.
  
  This disorder is the place to me, after having described Church Health
  at one of the previous pages, I reoccupied it, the reason is
  very simple, browsing the Travel Wallet I found new details: the
  transfer to This book, written hastily.

  With this method, the reader follows the same course, the very
  route that I followed in Venice: if two sites describe in one
  place, proving that I visited him twice.
  

  The Church of the Redeemer, located across the channel Giudecca,
  of Judea, is superb as all, and before I forget, let me refer
  to a scene slightly moved me to go and visit the church.
  
  It was on June 18 unless I am mistaken: there was a procession in
  fishing village, San Nicolas. I, on my arrival gondola at the foot
  of the Church of the Redeemer, a man asked that approached, as long
as the gondolas do play in the shore, I asked, I say, what was the
function to be held that day.

  The man to whom were addressed to me was a venerable old man,
  poorly covered with a threadbare suit.
  
  Upon hearing my question bowed his head, and after a silence Religious
  few minutes, I said with an accent excitedly "Formerly, in
  time of the republic, when I was a boy, holding a big party: all
  fishers dressed in their finery, came in procession to this church,
  there were many animation, very pleased, very happy: today ... there
is nothing, sir, silence and sadness ... the fatherland There ....»

  
  
  My character, eager to seek these emotions on all sides, my
  opinion in regard to the Austrians, the respectable old the Venetian
I had before me, his accent tender sense, all penetrated my soul,
everything I touched.

  
  
  Since there is nothing more sacred in my eyes the love of God,
  Family, Fatherland and Freedom, as I saw deeply saddened old man
  who had spoken, as I assumed that The idea would be painful
  to die, he, so old, leaving the country in the hands of tyrants,
  I wanted to comfort him, I wanted comfort to myself, heralding the
  coming emancipation of Venice heroic and dejected, I spoke
  with warmth, passion, according to my custom, according to my beliefs,
  and their enthusiasm never dead, awoke, and his face, folded
  by the time and suffering was prolonged cheering, and handed me
  one of his hands trembling I hastened to shake, and together
  we call support to Venice in Venice, and together we
  ask God to emancipated, and together they filed the heart, I so excited
as him.

CHAPTER 31. MACAO--INTERVIEW WITH THE GOVERNOR--A VISIT TO CANTON.

CHINESE PROMISES.

(*Note. Anson, of course, had no intention of sailing for England. His reason for the deception
is given in chapter 33.)

A MANDARIN COMES ON BOARD.

A DINNER PARTY. And the Commodore, having, according to custom, made the mandarin a present,
they all departed in the same vessels that brought them.

(*Note. The cow has been held in high honour in India from early times. The slaughtering and
eating the flesh of kine is considered an abominable crime. The connection between India and
Chinese has always been close.

AT SEA AGAIN.

CHAPTER 33. WAITING FOR THE Manila GALLEON.

CONFIDENT OF SUCCESS. The men were taught the shortest method of loading with cartridges, and
were constantly trained to fire at a mark, which was usually hung at the yard-arm, and some
little reward was given to the most expert. The whole crew, by this management, were rendered
extremely skilful, quick in loading, all of them good marksmen, and some of them most extraordinary
ones, so that I doubt not but, in the use of small arms, they were more than a match for double
their number who had not been habituated to the same kind of exercise.

AN ILL-TIMED DISAGREEMENT.

It was the last of May, New Style, as has been already said, when the Centurion arrived off
Cape Espiritu Santo, and consequently the next day began the month in which the galleons were
to be expected. The Commodore therefore made all necessary preparations for receiving them.

CHAPTER 34. THE CAPTURE OF THE GALLEON.

THE GALLEON SIGHTED.

(*Note. Probably as a pretended signal to a consort.

A GALLANT FIGHT.

CHAPTER 35. SECURING THE PRISONERS--MACAO AGAIN--AMOUNT OF THE TREASURE.

THE SUFFERINGS OF THE PRISONERS.

CHINESE INQUIRIES.

A MESSAGE FROM THE VICEROY.

A WISE PRECAUTION.

BARGAINING.

A FIRE AT CANTON.

THE VICEROY.

HOMEWARD BOUND.

The Commodore, on the 12th of December, anchored before the town of Macao.

GLOSSARY.

Anchors:

Bower anchors (the best bower and the small bower). The anchors carried at the bows of a vessel.

The sheet anchor (= shoot anchor). An anchor to be shot out or lowered in case of a great danger,
carried abaft the forerigging; formerly the largest anchor.

Bag-wig. See Wig.

Barge. See Boats.

Bilging. To bilge = to be stove in, or suffer serious injury in the bilge, which is the bottom
part of a ship's hull.

Boats:

Barge. The second boat of a man-of-war; a long narrow boat, generally with not less than ten
oars, for the use of the chief officers.

Cutter. A boat belonging to a ship of war, shorter and in proportion broader than the barge
or pinnace, fitted for rowing and sailing, and used for carrying light stores, passengers, etc.

Longboat. The principal boat of the old man-of-war. Now replaced by steam launches.

Pinnace. A boat for the accommodation of the inferior officers of a man-of-war, resembling
the barge.

Yawl. A small boat used for much the same purposes as the cutter.

Bow-chasers. See Chasers.

Bower. See Anchor.

Bring to. To bring a vessel's head up to the wind so that the wind blows from bow to stern.

Broad pennant. See Commodore.

Cacao. Chocolate nuts.

Cackle. To cover a cable spirally with old three-inch rope to protect it from chafing.

Callous (of a broken bone). The new bony tissue formed between and around the fractured ends
of a broken bone in the process of reuniting.

Careening is the operation of heaving down a ship on one side, in order to expose the other
side for cleaning.

Cartel. A written agreement between belligerents for an exchange of prisoners.

Caulk. To make a ship's seams watertight by plugging the crevices with oakum (i.e. old untwisted
rope).

Chasers. Bow-chasers were two long chase-guns placed forward in the bow ports to fire directly
ahead. Stern-chasers were similar guns mounted astern.

Clean. A clean ship is one whose bottom is free from barnacles and weed that check the pace.

Clearing for action. To get ready for battle by clearing the decks from encumbrances and anything
unnecessary or dangerous, such as wooden partitions between cabins, etc.

Cochineal. A dye stuff consisting of female cochineal insects killed and dried by heat. They
yield a brilliant scarlet dye.

Cohorn mortars. See Mortar.

The commerce. Used several times in the sense of "the traders."

Commodore. A naval officer ranking above a captain and below a rear-admiral. Several attempts by the rebels had been frustrated by the inability of the chiefs Tupac-Amaru
in who had placed their trust. His wife had forced him to return to Tungasuca to calm the terrors
that had caused the news of the departure of the troops Lima. Sad and singular presentiment!
With Marshal Valle, who commanded this expedition, leave the visitor Areche - fierce man, who,
in violation of human rights, and insulting to the century in which he lived, was to renew
the scenes of barbarous times, in time that were still alive and Filangeri Fellow! The absence
of Tupac-Amaru, though momentary, was marked by major setbacks. His troops, who had not been
able to penetrate to Cuzco, were Puno and rejected Paucartambo. These contrasts, and the expedition
progressed Lima redoubled marches, I did notice all the danger of inaction in which it was, and
cared for their leave.

His comeback excited the most lively enthusiasm, and people crowded into the transit to acclaim.
This time, the airs cini (llantu) which, according to Garcilaso, was the insignia of kingship
among the Incas. Inexperienced in the art of commanding the armies, became entangled back on
the site of Cuzco, which had to withdraw a second time, not resistance he opposed the city, but
by fear of being attacked by the force of Valle. In this state he had no alternative but to go to
meet the helper column, or withdrawn: chose the latter will, having at his disposal an army
of 17,000 men!

Retreated to the province of Tinta, which soon came in front of 16.000 Valle men. We waited with 10.000
Tupac-Amaru, who were overwhelmed in the vicinity of Tungasuca. Taken prisoner with his family,
was taken to Cuzco, where he atoned for an atrocious way desire to restore the domination
of the Incas, or rather of removing the Indians from low and intolerable
tyranny of the magistrates.

Jerk. To cure meat, especially beef, by cutting it into long thin slices and drying it in the sun.

Jury-mast. A small temporary mast often made of a yard; set up instead of a mast that is broken
down.

Larboard (or port). The left side of a ship looking towards the bow.

Lay to (lie to). To reduce sail to the lowest limits, so as to become nearly stationary.

Lee. The side or direction opposite to that from which the wind comes.

Line, ship of the. A ship of sufficient size and armament to take a place in the line of battle.

Linguist. Interpreter.

Longboat. See Boats.

Lumber. Sawn timber.

Masts: The masts of a full-rigged three-masted ship are the following: Fore-mast, topmast,
topgallant-mast, royal mast. Main-mast, topmast, topgallant-mast, royal mast. Mizzen-mast,
topmast, topgallant-mast, royal mast.

Monsoon. See Winds.

Mortar. A kind of gun with a very short bore. It throws its projectile at a great elevation.

Mortar, Cohorn (see chapter 7). Cohorn was a famous Dutch engineer and artillerist in the service
of William III.

Nailed up. Spiked. To spike a gun is to render it useless for the time by inserting into the
vent a steel pin with side springs, which when inserted open outwards to the shape of an arrowhead
so that it cannot be released. Gothic architecture is elegant without mixed
  schools, and captivates and amazes its beauty. In underground
  vaults of the temple are buried in marble tombs all who were
  kings of France.

  Paris markets are also worth seeing [5].

Pennant, Broad. See Commodore.

Pidreroes. Light Spanish cannon.

Pieces of eight. 

  The beautiful railroad station of Strasbourg, the which I have already
  mentioned, was my starting point.

  
  As from Bayonne to Bordeaux, took a seat in first class mail train,
leaving at eight o'clock in the evening. A long shaft or pole, having an iron or steel point, used in medieval warfare, now replaced
by the bayonet. A half-pike was a similar weapon having a staff about half the length.

Pink. An obsolete name for a small sailing ship.

Pinnace. See Boats.

Port (or larboard). The left side of a ship looking towards the bow.

Post-captain. Insured the tyrant of his own judge, who surprised unexpectedly
when I was eating, was issued a royal decree authorized to proceed in this manner, and substantiated
the cause in a few days, 10 of the same month he removed life on the gallows in the public square
of his people, and seizing all their property, went to do the same egecucion with Quispicanchi
province, which had no effect having fled to the city of Cuzco, which brought the news to
the success of ink. To make a hole in the bottom of a ship in order to sink it.

Serons (of dollars). A seron or seroon is a kind of small trunk made in Spanish America out
of a piece of raw bullock's hide.

Service (of a cable). The part next the anchor secured by cordage wrapped round it.

Ship of the line. See Line.

