The Works of E.P. Roe

VOLUME THIRTEEN

HIS SOMBRE RIVALS

ILLUSTRATED

1883

PREFACE

The following story has been taking form in my mind for several years, and at last I have been
able to write it out. With a regret akin to sadness, I take my leave, this August day, of people
who have become very real to me, whose joys and sorrows I have made my own. Although a Northern
man, I think my Southern readers will feel that I have sought to do justice to their motives.
At this distance from the late Civil War, it is time that passion and prejudice sank below
the horizon, and among the surviving soldiers who were arrayed against each other I think they
have practically disappeared. Stern and prolonged conflict taught mutual respect. The men of
the Northern armies were convinced, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that they had fought men
and Americans-- men whose patriotism and devotion to a cause sacred to them was as pure and
lofty as their own. It is time that sane men and women should be large-minded enough to recognize
that, whatever may have been the original motives of political leaders, the people on both
sides were sincere and honest; that around the camp-fires at their hearths and in their places
of worship they looked for God's blessing on their efforts with equal freedom from hypocrisy.

I have endeavored to portray the battle of Bull Run as it could appear to a civilian spectator:
to give a suggestive picture and not a general description. The following war-scenes are imaginary,
and colored by personal reminiscence. I was in the service nearly four years, two of which
were spent with the cavalry. Nevertheless, justly distrustful of my knowledge of military affairs,
I have submitted my proofs to my friend Colonel H. C. Hasbrouck, Commandant of Cadets at West
Point, and therefore have confidence that as mere sketches of battles and skirmishes they are
not technically defective.

The title of the story will naturally lead the reader to expect that deep shadows rest upon
many of its pages. I know it is scarcely the fashion of the present time to portray men and
women who feel very deeply about anything, but there certainly was deep feeling at the time
of which I write, as, in truth, there is to-day. The heart of humanity is like the ocean. There
are depths to be stirred when the causes are adequate. E. P. R.

CORNWALL-ON-THE-HUDSON, August 21, 1883.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I AN EMBODIMENT OF MAY

CHAPTER II MERE FANCIES

CHAPTER III THE VERDICT OF A SAGE

CHAPTER IV WARNING OR INCENTIVE

CHAPTER V IMPRESSIONS

CHAPTER VI PHILOSOPHY AT FAULT

CHAPTER VII WARREN HILLAND

CHAPTER VIII SUPREME MOMENTS

CHAPTER IX THE REVELATION

CHAPTER X THE KINSHIP OF SUFFERING

CHAPTER XI THE ORDEAL

CHAPTER XII FLIGHT TO NATURE

CHAPTER XIII THE FRIENDS

CHAPTER XIV NOBLE DECEPTION

CHAPTER XV "I WISH HE HAD KNOWN"

CHAPTER XVI THE CLOUD IN THE SOUTH

CHAPTER XVII PREPARATION

CHAPTER XVIII THE CALL TO ARMS

CHAPTER XIX THE BLOOD-RED SKY

CHAPTER XX TWO BATTLES

CHAPTER XXI THE LOGIC OF EVENTS

CHAPTER XXII SELF-SENTENCED

CHAPTER XXIII AN EARLY DREAM FULFILLED

CHAPTER XXIV UNCHRONICLED CONFLICTS

CHAPTER XXV A PRESENTIMENT

CHAPTER XXVI AN IMPROVISED PICTURE GALLERY

CHAPTER XXVII A DREAM

CHAPTER XXVIII ITS FULFILMENT

CHAPTER XXIX A SOUTHERN GIRL

CHAPTER XXX GUERILLAS

CHAPTER XXXI JUST IN TIME

CHAPTER XXXII A WOUNDED SPIRIT

CHAPTER XXXIII THE WHITE-HAIRED NURSE

CHAPTER XXXIV RITA'S BROTHER

CHAPTER XXXV HIS SOMBRE RIVALS

CHAPTEB XXXVI ALL MATERIALISTS

CHAPTEE XXXVII THE EFFORT TO LIVE

CHAPTEE XXXVIII GRAHAM'S LAST SACRIFICE

CHAPTEE XXXIX MARRIED UNCONSCIOUSLY

CHAPTEE XL RITA ANDERSON

CHAPTEE XLI A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM

CHAPTER I

AN EMBODIMENT OF MAY

"Beyond that revolving light lies my home. And yet why should I use such a term when the best
I can say is that a continent is my home? Home suggests a loved familiar nook in the great
world. There is no such niche for me, nor can I recall any place around which my memory lingers
with especial pleasure."

In a gloomy and somewhat bitter mood, Alford Graham thus soliloquized as he paced the deck
of an in-coming steamer. In explanation it may be briefly said that he had been orphaned early
in life, and that the residences of his guardians had never been made homelike to him. While
scarcely more than a child he had been placed at boarding-schools where the system and routine
made the youth's life little better than that of a soldier in his barrack. Many boys would
have grown hardy, aggressive, callous, and very possibly vicious from being thrown out on the
world so early. Young Graham became reticent and to superficial observers shy. Those who cared
to observe him closely, however, discovered that it was not diffidence, but indifference toward
others that characterized his manner. In the most impressible period of his life he had received
instruction, advice and discipline in abundance, but love and sympathy had been denied. Unconsciously
his heart had become chilled, benumbed and overshadowed by his intellect. The actual world
gave him little and seemed to promise less, and, as a result not at all unnatural, he became
something of a recluse and bookworm even before he had left behind him the years of boyhood.

Both comrades and teachers eventually learned that the retiring and solitary youth was not
to be trifled with. He looked his instructor steadily in the eye when he recited, and while
his manner was respectful, it was never deferential, nor could he be induced to yield a point,
when believing himself in the right, to mere arbitrary assertion; and sometimes he brought
confusion to his teacher by quoting in support of his own view some unimpeachable authority.

At the beginning of each school term there were usually rough fellows who thought the quiet
boy could be made the subject of practical jokes and petty annoyances without much danger of
retaliation. Graham would usually remain patient up to a certain point, and then, in dismay
and astonishment, the offender would suddenly find himself receiving a punishment which he
seemed powerless to resist. Blows would fall like hail, or if the combatants closed in the
struggle, the aggressor appeared to find in Graham's slight form sinew and fury only. It seemed
as if the lad's spirit broke forth in such a flame of indignation that no one could withstand
him. It was also remembered that while he was not noted for prowess on the playground, few
could surpass him in the gymnasium, and that he took long solitary rambles. Such of his classmates,
therefore, as were inclined to quarrel with him because of his unpopular ways soon learned
that he kept up his muscle with the best of them, and that, when at last roused, his anger
struck like lightning from a cloud.

During the latter part of his college course he gradually formed a strong friendship for a
young man of a different type, an ardent sunny-natured youth, who proved an antidote to his
morbid tendencies. They went abroad together and studied for two years at a German university,
and then Warren Hilland, Graham's friend, having inherited large wealth, returned to his home.
Graham, left to himself, delved more and more deeply in certain phases of sceptical philosophy.
It appeared to him that in the past men had believed almost everything, and that the heavier
the drafts made on credulity the more largely had they been honored. The two friends had long
since resolved that the actual and the proved should be the base from which they would advance
into the unknown, and they discarded with equal indifference unsubstantiated theories of science
and what they were pleased to term the illusions of faith. "From the verge of the known explore
the unknown," was their motto, and it had been their hope to spend their lives in extending
the outposts of accurate knowledge, in some one or two directions, a little beyond the points
already reached. Since the scalpel and microscope revealed no soul in the human mechanism they
regarded all theories and beliefs concerning a separate spiritual existence as mere assumption.
They accepted the materialistic view. To them each generation was a link in an endless chain,
and man himself wholly the product of an evolution which had no relations to a creative mind,
for they had no belief in the existence of such a mind. They held that one had only to live
wisely and well, and thus transmit the principle of life, not only unvitiated, but strengthened
and enlarged. Sins against body and mind were sins against the race, and it was their creed
that the stronger, fuller and more nearly complete they made their lives the richer and fuller
would be the life that succeeded them. They scouted as utterly unproved and irrational the
idea that they could live after death, excepting as the plant lives by adding to the material
life and well-being of other plants. But at that time the spring and vigor of youth were in
their heart and brain, and it seemed to them a glorious thing to live and do their part in
the advancement of the race toward a stage of perfection not dreamed of by the unthinking masses.

Alas for their visions of future achievement! An avalanche of wealth had overwhelmed Hilland.
His letters to his friend had grown more and more infrequent, and they contained many traces
of the business cares and the distractions inseparable from his possessions and new relations.
And now for causes just the reverse Graham also was forsaking his studies. His modest inheritance,
invested chiefly in real estate, had so far depreciated that apparently it could not much longer
provide for even his frugal life abroad.

"I must give up my chosen career for a life of bread-winning," he had concluded sadly, and
he was ready to avail himself of any good opening that offered. Therefore he knew not where
his lot would be cast on the broad continent beyond the revolving light that loomed every moment
more distinctly in the west.

A few days later found him at the residence of Mrs. Mayburn, a pretty cottage in a suburb of
an eastern city. This lady was his aunt by marriage, and had long been a widow. She had never
manifested much interest in her nephew, but since she was his nearest relative he felt that
he could not do less than call upon her. To his agreeable surprise he found that time had mellowed
her spirit and softened her angularities. After the death of her husband she had developed
unusual ability to take care of herself, and had shown little disposition to take care of any
one else. Her thrift and economy had greatly enhanced her resources, and her investments had
been profitable, while the sense of increasing abundance had had a happy effect on her character.
Within the past year she had purchased the dwelling in which she now resided, and to which
she welcomed Graham with unexpected warmth. So far from permitting him to make simply a formal
call, she insisted on an extended visit, and he, divorced from his studies and therefore feeling
his isolation more keenly than ever before, assented.

"My home is accessible," she said, "and from this point you can make inquiries and look around
for business opportunities quite as well as from a city hotel."

She was so cordial, so perfectly sincere, that for the first time in his life he felt what
it was to have kindred and a place in the world that was not purchased.

He had found his financial affairs in a much better condition than he had expected. Some improvements
were on foot which promised to advance the value of his real estate so largely as to make him
independent, and he was much inclined to return to Germany and resume his studies.

"I will rest and vegetate for a time," he concluded. "I will wait till my friend Hilland returns
from the West, and then, when the impulse of work takes possession of me again, I will decide
upon my course."

He had come over the ocean to meet his fate, and not the faintest shadow of a presentiment
of this truth crossed his mind as he looked tranquilly from his aunt's parlor window at the
beautiful May sunset. The cherry blossoms were on the wane, and the light puffs of wind brought
the white petals down like flurries of snow; the plum-trees looked as if the snow had clung
to every branch and spray, and they were as white as they could have been after some breathless,
large- flaked December storm; but the great apple-tree that stood well down the path was the
crowning product of May. A more exquisite bloom of pink and white against an emerald foil of
tender young leaves could not have existed even in Eden, nor could the breath of Eve have been
more sweet than the fragrance exhaled. The air was soft with summer- like mildness, and the
breeze that fanned Graham's cheek brought no sense of chilliness. The sunset hour, with its
spring beauty, the song of innumerable birds, and especially the strains of a wood-thrush,
that, like a prima donna, trilled her melody, clear, sweet and distinct above the feathered
chorus, penetrated his soul with subtle and delicious influences. A vague longing for something
he had never known or felt, for something that books had never taught, or experimental science
revealed, throbbed in his heart. He felt that his life was incomplete, and a deeper sense of
isolation came over him than he had ever experienced in foreign cities where every face was
strange. Unconsciously he was passing under the most subtle and powerful of all spells, that
of spring, when the impulse to mate comes not to the birds alone.

It so happened that he was in just the condition to succumb to this influence. His mental tension
was relaxed. He had sat down by the wayside of life to rest awhile. He had found that there
was no need that he should bestir himself in money-getting, and his mind refused to return
immediately to the deep abstractions of science. It pleaded weariness of the world and of the
pros and cons of conflicting theories and questions. He admitted the plea and said:--

"My mind shall rest, and for a few days, possibly weeks, it shall be passively receptive of
just such influences as nature and circumstances chance to bring to it. Who knows but that
I may gain a deeper insight into the hidden mysteries than if I were delving among the dusty
tomes of a university library? For some reason I feel to- night as if I could look at that
radiant, fragrant apple-tree and listen to the lullaby of the birds forever. And yet their
songs suggest a thought that awakens an odd pain and dissatisfaction. Each one is singing to
his mate. Each one is giving expression to an overflowing fulness and completeness of life;
and never before have I felt my life so incomplete and isolated.

"I wish Hilland was here. He is such a true friend that his silence is companionship, and his
words never jar discordantly. It seems to me that I miss him more to-night than I did during
the first days after his departure. It's odd that I should. I wonder if the friendship, the
love of a woman could be more to me than that of Hilland. What was that paragraph from Emerson
that once struck me so forcibly? My aunt is a woman of solid reading; she must have Emerson.

"Emerson never learned that at a university, German or otherwise. He writes as if it were a
common human experience, and yet I know no more about it than of the sensations of a man who
has lost an arm. I suppose losing one's heart is much the same. As long as a man's limbs are
intact he is scarcely conscious of them, but when one is gone it troubles him all the time,
although it isn't there. Now when Hilland left me I felt guilty at the ease with which I could
forget him in the library and laboratory. I did not become all memory. I knew he was my best,
my only friend; he is still; but he is not essential to my life. Clearly, according to Emerson,
I am as ignorant as a child of one of the deepest experiences of life, and very probably had
better remain so, and yet the hour is playing strange tricks with my fancy."

Thus it may be perceived that Alford Graham was peculiarly open on this deceitful May evening,
which promised peace and security, to the impending stroke of fate. Its harbinger first appeared
in the form of a white Spitz dog, barking vivaciously under the apple-tree, where a path from
a neighboring residence intersected the walk leading from Mrs. Mayburn's cottage to the street.
Evidently some one was playing with the little creature, and was pretending to be kept at bay
by its belligerent attitude. Suddenly there was a rush and a flutter of white draperies, and
the dog retreated toward Graham, barking with still greater excitement. Then the young man
saw coming up the path with quick, lithe tread, sudden pauses, and little impetuous dashes
at her canine playmate, a being that might have been an emanation from the radiant apple-tree,
or, rather, the human embodiment of the blossoming period of the year. Her low wide brow and
her neck were snowy white, and no pink petal on the trees above her could surpass the bloom
on her cheeks. Her large, dark, lustrous eyes were brimming over with fun, and unconscious
of observation, she moved with the natural, unstudied grace of a child.

Graham thought, "No scene of nature is complete without the human element, and now the very
genius of the hour and season has appeared;" and he hastily concealed himself behind the curtains,
unwilling to lose one glimpse of a picture that made every nerve tingle with pleasure. His
first glance had revealed that the fair vision was not a child, but a tall, graceful girl,
who happily had not yet passed beyond the sportive impulses of childhood.

Every moment she came nearer, until at last she stood opposite the window. He could see the
blue veins branching across her temples, the quick rise and fall of her bosom, caused by rather
violent exertion, the wavy outlines of light brown hair that was gathered in a Greek coil at
the back of the shapely head. She had the rare combination of dark eyes and light hair which
made the lustre of her eyes all the more striking. He never forgot that moment as she stood
panting before him on the gravel walk, her girlhood's grace blending so harmoniously with her
budding womanhood. For a moment the thought crossed his mind that under the spell of the spring
evening his own fancy had created her, and that if he looked away and turned again he would
see nothing but the pink and white blossoms, and hear only the jubilant song of the birds.

The Spitz dog, however, could not possibly have any such unsubstantial origin, and this small
Cerberus had now entered the room, and was barking furiously at him as an unrecognized stranger.
A moment later his vision under the window stood in the doorway. The sportive girl was transformed
at once into a well-bred young woman who remarked quietly, "I beg your pardon. I expected to
find Mrs. Mayburn here;" and she departed to search for that lady through the house with a
prompt freedom which suggested relations of the most friendly intimacy.

CHAPTER II

MERE FANCIES

Graham's disposition to make his aunt a visit was not at all chilled by the discovery that
she had so fair a neighbor. He was conscious of little more than an impulse to form the acquaintance
of one who might give a peculiar charm and piquancy to his May-day vacation, and enrich him
with an experience that had been wholly wanting in his secluded and studious life. With a smile
he permitted the fancy--for he was in a mood for all sorts of fancies on this evening--that
if this girl could teach him to interpret Emerson's words, he would make no crabbed resistance.
And yet the remote possibility of such an event gave him a sense of security, and prompted
him all the more to yield himself for the first time to whatever impressions a young and pretty
woman might be able to make upon him. His very disposition toward experiment and analysis inclined
him to experiment with himself. Thus it would seem that even the perfect evening, and the vision
that had emerged from under the apple-boughs, could not wholly banish a tendency to give a
scientific cast to the mood and fancies of the hour.

His aunt now summoned him to the supper-room, where he was formally introduced to Miss Grace
St. John, with whom his first meal under his relative's roof was destined to be taken.

As may naturally be supposed, Graham was not well furnished with small talk, and while he had
not the proverbial shyness and awkwardness of the student, he was somewhat silent because he
knew not what to say. The young guest was entirely at her ease, and her familiarity with the
hostess enabled her to chat freely and naturally on topics of mutual interest, thus giving
Graham time for those observations to which all are inclined when meeting one who has taken
a sudden and strong hold upon the attention.

He speedily concluded that she could not be less than nineteen or twenty years of age, and
that she was not what he would term a society girl--a type that he had learned to recognize
from not a few representatives of his countrywomen whom he had seen abroad, rather than from
much personal acquaintance. It should not be understood that he had shunned society altogether,
and his position had ever entitled him to enter the best; but the young women whom it had been
his fortune to meet had failed to interest him as completely as he had proved himself a bore
to them. Their worlds were too widely separated for mutual sympathy; and after brief excursions
among the drawing- rooms to which Hilland had usually dragged him, he returned to his books
with a deeper satisfaction and content. Would his acquaintance with Miss St. John lead to a
like result? He was watching and waiting to see, and she had the advantage--if it was an advantage--of
making a good first impression.

Every moment increased this predisposition in her favor. She must have known that she was very
attractive, for few girls reach her age without attaining such knowledge; but her observer,
and in a certain sense her critic, could not detect the faintest trace of affectation or self-consciousness.
Her manner, her words, and even their accent seemed unstudied, unpracticed, and unmodelled
after any received type. Her glance was peculiarly open and direct, and from the first she
gave Graham the feeling that she was one who might be trusted absolutely. That she had tact
and kindliness also was evidenced by the fact that she did not misunderstand or resent his
comparative silence. At first, after learning that he had lived much abroad, her manner toward
him had been a little shy and wary, indicating that she may have surmised that his reticence
was the result of a certain kind of superiority which travelled men--especially young men--often
assume when meeting those whose lives are supposed to have a narrow horizon; but she quickly
discovered that Graham had no foreign-bred pre-eminence to parade--that he wanted to talk with
her if he could only find some common subject of interest. This she supplied by taking him
to ground with which he was perfectly familiar, for she asked him to tell her something about
university life in Germany. On such a theme he could converse well, and before long a fire
of eager questions proved that he had not only a deeply interested listener but also a very
intelligent one.

Mrs. Mayburn smiled complacently, for she had some natural desire that her nephew should make
a favorable impression. In regard to Miss St. John she had long ceased to have any misgivings,
and the approval that she saw in Graham's eyes was expected as a matter of course. This approval
she soon developed into positive admiration by leading her favorite to speak of her own past.

"Grace, you must know, Alford, is the daughter of an army officer, and has seen some odd phases
of life at the various military stations where her father has been on duty."

These words piqued Graham's curiosity at once, and he became the questioner. His own frank
effort to entertain was now rewarded, and the young girl, possessing easy and natural powers
of description, gave sketches of life at military posts which to Graham had more than the charm
of novelty. Unconsciously she was accounting for herself. In the refined yet unconventional
society of officers and their wives she had acquired the frank manner so peculiarly her own.
But the characteristic which won Graham's interest most strongly was her abounding mirthfulness.
It ran through all her words like a golden thread. The instinctive craving of every nature
is for that which supplements itself, and Graham found something so genial in Miss St. John's
ready smile and laughing eyes, which suggested an over-full fountain of joyousness within,
that his heart, chilled and repressed from childhood, began to give signs of its existence,
even during the first hour of their acquaintance. It is true, as we have seen, that he was
in a very receptive condition, but then a smile, a glance that is like warm sunshine, is never
devoid of power.

The long May twilight had faded, and they were still lingering over the supper-table, when
a middle-aged colored woman in a flaming red turban appeared in the doorway and said, "Pardon,
Mis' Mayburn; I'se a-hopin' you'll 'scuse me. I jes step over to tell Miss Grace dat de major's
po'ful oneasy,--'spected you back afo'."

The girl arose with alacrity, saying, "Mr. Graham, you have brought me into danger, and must
now extricate me. Papa is an inveterate whist- player, and you have put my errand here quite
out of my mind. I didn't come for the sake of your delicious muffins altogether"--with a nod
at her hostess; "our game has been broken up, you know, Mrs. Mayburn, by the departure of Mrs.
Weeks and her daughter. You have often played a good hand with us, and papa thought you would
come over this evening, and that you, from your better acquaintance with our neighbors, might
know of some one who enjoyed the game sufficiently to join us quite often. Mr. Graham, you
must be the one I am seeking. A gentleman versed in the lore of two continents certainly understands
whist, or, at least, can penetrate its mysteries at a single sitting."

"Suppose I punish the irony of your concluding words," Graham replied, "by saying that I know
just enough about the game to be aware how much skill is required to play with such a veteran
as your father?"

"If you did you would punish papa also, who is innocent."

"That cannot be thought of, although, in truth, I play but an indifferent game. If you will
make amends by teaching me I will try to perpetrate as few blunders as possible."

"Indeed, sir, you forget. You are to make amends for keeping me talking here, forgetful of
filial duty, by giving me a chance to teach you. You are to be led meekly in as a trophy by
which I am to propitiate my stern parent, who has military ideas of promptness and obedience."

"What if he should place me under arrest?"

"Then Mrs. Mayburn and I will become your jailers, and we shall keep you here until you are
one of the most accomplished whist-players in the land."

"If you will promise to stand guard over me some of the time I will submit to any conditions."

"You are already making one condition, and may think of a dozen more. It will be better to
parole you with the understanding that you are to put in an appearance at the hour for whist;"
and with similar light talk they went down the walk under the apple-boughs, whence in Graham's
fancy the fair girl had had her origin. As they passed under the shadow he saw the dusky outline
of a rustic seat leaning against the bole of the tree, and he wondered if he should ever induce
his present guide through the darkened paths to come there some moonlight evening, and listen
to the fancies which her unexpected appearance had occasioned. The possibility of such an event
in contrast with its far greater improbability caused him to sigh, and then he smiled broadly
at himself in the darkness.

When they had passed a clump of evergreens, a lighted cottage presented itself, and Miss St.
John sprang lightly up the steps, pushed open the hall door, and cried through the open entrance
to a cosey apartment, "No occasion for hostilities, papa. I have made a capture that gives
the promise of whist not only this evening but also for several more to come."

As Graham and Mrs. Mayburn entered, a tall, white-haired man lifted his foot from off a cushion,
and rose with some little difficulty, but having gained his feet, his bearing was erect and
soldier-like, and his courtesy perfect, although toward Mrs. Mayburn it was tinged with the
gallantry of a former generation. Some brief explanations followed, and then Major St. John
turned upon Graham the dark eyes which his daughter had inherited, and which seemed all the
more brilliant in contrast with his frosty eyebrows, and said genially, "It is very kind of
you to be willing to aid in beguiling an old man's tedium." Turning to his daughter he added
a little querulously, "There must be a storm brewing, Grace," and he drew in his breath as
if in pain.

"Does your wound trouble you to-night, papa?" she asked gently.

"Yes, just as it always does before a storm."

"It is perfectly clear without," she resumed. "Perhaps the room has become a little cold. The
evenings are still damp and chilly;" and she threw two or three billets of wood on the open
fire, kindling a blaze that sprang cheerily up the chimney.

The room seemed to be a combination of parlor and library, and it satisfied Graham's ideal
of a living apartment. Easy-chairs of various patterns stood here and there and looked as if
constructed by the very genius of comfort. A secretary in the corner near a window was open,
suggesting absent friends and the pleasure of writing to them amid such agreeable surroundings.
Again Graham queried, prompted by the peculiar influences that had gained the mastery on this
tranquil but eventful evening, "Will Miss St. John ever sit there penning words straight from
her heart to me?"

He was brought back to prose and reality by the major. Mrs. Mayburn had been condoling with
him, and he now turned and said, "I hope, my dear sir, that you may never carry around such
a barometer as I am afflicted with. A man with an infirmity grows a little egotistical, if
not worse."

"You have much consolation, sir, in remembering how you came by your infirmity," Graham replied.
"Men bearing such proofs of service to their country are not plentiful in our money-getting land."

His daughter's laugh rang out musically as she cried, "That was meant to be a fine stroke of
diplomacy. Papa, you will now have to pardon a score of blunders."

