Is it not a curious dispensation of Providence that, just when Aunt Celia is confined to her
room with a cold, Mrs. Benedict should join our party and spend her days in our company? She
drove to the Merchants' Hall and the Cavalry Barracks with us, she walked on the city walls
with us, she even dared the 'homely' tea at 'The Little Snug'; and at that moment I determined
I wouldn't build her memorial church for her, even at a most princely profit.

On crossing Lendal Bridge we saw the river Ouse running placidly through the town, and a lot
of little green boats moored at a landing-stage.

'How delightful it would be to row for an hour!' exclaimed Miss Schuyler.

'Oh, do you think so, in those tippy boats on a strange river?' remonstrated Mrs. Benedict.

The moment I suspected she was afraid of the water, I lured her to the landing-stage and engaged
a boat.

'It's a pity that that large flat one has a leak, otherwise it would have held three nicely;
but I dare say we can be comfortable in one of the little ones,' I said doubtfully.

'Shan't we be too heavy for it?' Mrs. Benedict inquired timidly.

'Oh, I don't think so. We'll get in and try it. If we find it sinks under our weight we won't
risk it,' I replied, spurred on by such twinkles in Miss Schuyler's eyes as blinded me to everything
else.

'I really don't think your aunt would like you to venture, Miss Schuyler,' said the marplot.

'Oh, as to that, she knows I am accustomed to boating,' replied Miss Schuyler.

'And Miss Schuyler is such an excellent swimmer,' I added.

Whereupon the marplot and killjoy remarked that if it were a question of swimming she should
prefer to remain at home, as she had large responsibilities devolving upon her, and her life
was in a sense not her own to fling away as she might like.

I assured her solemnly that she was quite, quite right, and pushed off before she could change
her mind.

After a long interval of silence, Miss Schuyler observed in the voice, accompanied by the smile
and the glance of the eye, that 'did' for me the moment I was first exposed to them:

'You oughtn't to have said that about my swimming, because I can't a bit, you know.'

'I was justified,' I answered gloomily. 'I have borne too much to-day, and if she had come
with us and had fallen overboard, I might have been tempted to hold her down with the oar.'

Whereupon Miss Schuyler gave way to such whole-hearted mirth that she nearly upset the boat.
I almost wish she had! I want to swim, sink, die, or do any other mortal thing for her.

We had a heavenly hour. It was only an hour, but it was the first time I have had any real
chance to direct hot shot at the walls of the maiden castle. I regret to state that they stood
remarkably firm. Of course, I don't wish to batter them down; I want them to melt under the
warmth of my attack.

She

    York, July 5.

We had a lovely sail on the river Ouse this afternoon. Mrs. Benedict was timid about boating,
and did not come with us. As a usual thing, I hate a cowardly woman, but her lack of courage
is the nicest trait in her whole character; I might almost say the only nice trait.

Mr. Copley tried in every way, short of asking me a direct question, to find out whether I
had received the marked copy of 'Persuasion' in Bath, but I evaded the point.

Just as we were at the door of my lodging, and he was saying good-bye, I couldn't resist the
temptation of asking:

'Why, before you knew us at all, did you put "Miss Van Tyck: Reserved," on the window of the
railway carriage at Bath?'

He was embarrassed for a moment, and then he said:

'Well, she is, you know, if you come to that; and, besides, I didn't dare tell the guard the
placard I really wanted to put on.'

'I shouldn't think a lack of daring your most obvious fault,' I said cuttingly.

'Perhaps not; but there are limits to most things, and I hadn't the pluck to paste on a pink
paper with "Miss Schuyler: Engaged," on it.'

He disappeared suddenly just then, as if he wasn't equal to facing my displeasure, and I am
glad he did, for I was too embarrassed for words.

Memoranda: In the height of roofs, nave, and choir, York is first of English cathedrals.

She

    Durham, July something or other,
        At Farmer Hendry's.

We left York this morning, and arrived in Durham about eleven o'clock. It seems there is some
sort of an election going on in the town, and there was not a single fly at the station. Mr.
Copley looked about in every direction, but neither horse nor vehicle was to be had for love
or money. At last we started to walk to the village, Mr. Copley so laden with our hand-luggage
that he resembled a pack mule.

We called first at the Three Tuns, where they still keep up the old custom of giving a wee
glass of cherry-brandy to each guest on his arrival; but, alas! they were crowded, and we were
turned from the hospitable door. We then made a tour of the inns, but not a single room was
to be had, not for that night, nor for two days ahead, on account of that same election.

'Hadn't we better go on to Edinburgh, Aunt Celia?' I asked, as we were resting in the door
of the Jolly Sailor.

'Edinburgh? Never!' she replied. 'Do you suppose that I would voluntarily spend a Sunday in
those bare Presbyterian churches until the memory of these past ideal weeks has faded a little
from my memory? What! leave out Durham and spoil the set?' (In her agitation and disappointment
she spoke of the cathedrals as if they were souvenir spoons.) 'I intended to stay here for
a week or more, and write up a record of our entire trip from Winchester while the impressions
were fresh in my mind.'

'And I had intended doing the same thing,' said Mr. Copley. 'That is, I hoped to finish off
my previous sketches, which are in a frightful state of incompletion, and spend a good deal
of time on the interior of this cathedral, which is unusually beautiful.'

At this juncture Aunt Celia disappeared for a moment to ask the barmaid if, in her opinion,
the constant consumption of malt liquors prevents a more dangerous indulgence in brandy and
whisky. She is gathering statistics, but as the barmaids can never collect their thoughts while
they are drawing ale, Aunt Celia proceeds slowly.

'For my part,' said I, with mock humility, 'I am a docile person, who never has any intentions
of her own, but who yields herself sweetly to the intentions of other people in her immediate
vicinity.'

'Are you?' asked Mr. Copley, taking out his pencil.

'Yes, I said so. What are you doing?'

'Merely taking note of your statement, that's all. Miss a girls had thrown in men. Now she was now
dreamed to marriage; it was a course to her, from which she had no desire we lodged to penetrate;
but she would have van i appeared about it through the eddies into stream.

If you will step into the coffee-room for an hour, I'll walk up to Farmer Hendry's and see
if they will take us in. I think we might be fairly comfortable.'

'Can Aunt Celia have Apollinaris and black coffee after her morning bath?' I asked.

'I hope, Katharine,' said Aunt Celia majestically--'I hope that I can accommodate myself to
circumstances. If Mr. Copley can secure apartments for us, I shall be more than grateful.'

So here we are, all lodging together in an ideal English farmhouse. There is a thatched roof
on one of the old buildings, and the dairy-house is covered with ivy, and Farmer Hendry's wife
makes a real English curtsey, and there are herds of beautiful sleek Durham cattle, and the
butter and cream and eggs and mutton are delicious, and I never, never want to go home any
more. I want to live here for ever and wave the American flag on Washington's birthday.

