The train stopped again. Malon got out and Sami followed him. They went a short distance together
and then Malon stepped to the left into a large garden and then into the house. Here he talked
a while with the man of the house, who from time to time looked pityingly at Sami. Then Malon
took Sami's hand, shook it and left him behind alone in the big room.

After some time the man of the house came back and a sturdy fellow behind him. The latter began
to talk in Sami's own language. He wanted to console the boy and said he would soon go on in
a carriage. Then Sami asked if he was his cousin, and if this was the village of Zweisimmen?
But the fellow laughed loudly and said he was no cousin, but a servant here in the inn, and
the place was called Aigle. Sami would have to travel an hour longer and would not reach Zweisimmen
before twelve o'clock at night. But there was a coachman here from Interlaken, who had to go
back and would take him along.

The man of the house had bread and eggs brought for Sami and when he said he wasn't hungry,
he put everything kindly into the boy's pocket. Then he led the boy out. Outside stood a large
coach with two horses and high up on the top sat the driver. No one was inside. Sami was lifted
up, the driver placed him next himself and drove away. At any other time this would have pleased
Sami very much, but now he was too sad. He kept thinking of his grandmother, who could no longer
talk with him and would never wake again. After some time the driver began to talk to him.
Sami had to tell him where he came from and to whom he was going. He told him everything, how
he had lived with his grandmother, how she had fallen asleep early that day, and did not wake
up again; and that he was going to find a cousin in Zweisimmen and would have to live with
him. Sami's childish description touched the driver so deeply that he finally said:

"It will be too late when we reach there, you must stay with me to-night."

Then when he saw Sami's eyes close with the approaching twilight and only open again when they
went over a stone, and the two of them up on the box were jounced almost dangerously against
each other, he grasped the boy firmly, lifted him up and slipped him backwards into the coach.
Here he fell at once fast asleep and when he finally opened his eyes again, the sun was shining
brightly in his face. He was lying in his clothes on a huge, big bed in a room with white walls.
In all his life he had never seen such walls. He looked around in consternation. Then the coachman
of the day before came in the door.

"Have you had your sleep out?" he said laughing. "Come and have some coffee with me. Then I
will take you to your cousin. Some one else must carry your bundle. It is too heavy for you."

Sami followed him into the coffee-room. Here the good man kept pouring out coffee for the boy,
but Sami could neither eat nor drink.

When the coachman had finished his breakfast, he rose and started with Sami on the way to the
sergeant's house. It was not far. At the house in the meadow among the pear-trees he laid Sami's
bundle down, shook him by the hand and said:

"Well, good luck to you. I have nothing to do in there and have farther to go."

Sami thanked him for all his kindness, and gazed after his benefactor, until he disappeared
behind the trees. Then he knocked on the door. A woman came out, looked in amazement first
at the boy, then at his big bundle, and said rudely: "Where have you come from with all your
household goods?"

Sami informed her where he had come from and that his grandmother was Mary Ann, and his father,
Sami. Meanwhile three boys had come running up to them, placed themselves directly in front
of him, and were looking at him from top to toe with wide-open eyes. This embarrassed Sami
exceedingly.

"Bring your father out," said the mother to one of her boys. Their father was sitting inside
at the table, eating his breakfast.

"What's the matter now?" he growled.

"There is someone here, who claims to be a relative of yours. He doesn't know where he is going,"
exclaimed his wife.

"He can come in to me, perhaps I can tell him, if I know," replied the man, without moving.

"Well, go in," directed the woman, giving Sami an assisting push. The boy went in and replied
very timidly, where he had come from and to whom he had belonged. The peasant scratched his head.

"Make quick work of it," said the woman impatiently, who had followed with her three boys.

"I think we have enough with the three of them, and there are people who might need such a boy."

"This is quickly decided," said the peasant, thoughtfully cutting his piece of bread in two;
"send all four boys out."

After this command had been carried out, he continued slowly: "There is no help for it. It
was stipulated at the time the house was sold, that room must be made in the house if either
Mary Ann, Sami or the child should come back. Besides, it is not so bad as it seems. Where
three sleep together there is room for a fourth, and he can do some work for his food. The
parish can do something for his clothes."

His wife had no desire to have a fourth added to her three boys, for her own made enough noise
and trouble for her. She protested, saying she knew how it was with such stray children and
they could expect to have a fine time!

But it was of no use; it was decided that Sami should have a place in the house. The farmer
brought in the bundle and carried it up to the oldest boy's room, where until now the broad-shouldered
Stoeffi had slept in a bed alone. He could take Sami in with him, for he was smaller than the
other two; Michael and Uli could stay together as before.

Then the woman opened the bundle. She was not a little surprised, when she found inside not
only Sami's clothes, all in the best of order, but also two good dresses, aprons and neckerchiefs.
She called Sami up to her, and showed him the corner in the chest where she had put his things.
Then she said she would take the woman's clothes for herself, since he could surely make no
use of them. The clothes which his grandmother had always worn were so dear to Sami, that he
looked on with sad eyes, as they were carried away, but he thought it had to be so.

He had already made the acquaintance of the three boys. They had shown him below in front of
the house how one of them could best throw down the others, and had demonstrated all sorts
of useful tricks. But as each tried to outdo the others in showing off his knowledge, a struggle
ensued and the tricks were immediately applied; one threw another over the third, Sami was
knocked and thrown around by all three.

When he now came down from his room a voice from the barn called out: "Come here and help pull."

Sami ran along. There stood the two younger boys, Michael and Uli, with great hoes on their
shoulders, and Stoeffi beside a cart which had to be taken along. They waited for their father,
and then all went out to the field. Here Stoeffi and Sami had to rake together the grass, which
the father cut, and load it on the cart, and bring home to the cows. Michael and Uli had to
hoe the weeds in the next field near by. Now it appeared that Sami did not know at all how
to use the rake, for he had never done such work.

"He shall weed with Uli, and Michael can do this work," said the farmer.

But when Sami tried to do this, the hoe was too heavy for him, and he could do nothing.

"Then kneel on the ground and pull them up with your hands," said the farmer.

Sami squatted down and pulled at the weeds with all his might. The ground was hard and the
work very tiresome. But Sami did not forget how his grandmother had impressed it upon him to
do all his work well and willingly.

At noon the two weeders took their hoes on their shoulders and Sami had to pull the cart, which
was now much heavier than on the way there. The boy had to use all his strength, for Stoeffi
showed him plainly that he would not take upon himself the larger part of the work.

Then when they passed by the field the father indicated to each one the piece he would have
to weed that afternoon; for he himself would be obliged to go to the cattle market. They would
find a smaller hoe at home for Sami to take with him in the afternoon, for pulling up the weeds
was too slow work.

After the boys had worked several hours in the afternoon, they sat down in the shade of an
old apple-tree to eat their luncheon, and the piece of black bread with pear juice tasted very
good after the hot work.

"Have you ever seen a bear?" asked Stoeffi of Sami.

He said he had not.

"Then you would be fearfully frightened if you should suddenly see one," continued Stoeffi;
"only those who know them are not afraid of them. This evening there is to be one in the village,
and, as I am almost through with my piece in the field, you can finish it, so I can go early
to see the bear."

Sami agreed. When all four had begun to hoe again, Stoeffi soon exclaimed:

"Well, you won't have much more to do now, Sami, but keep your promise, or--"

Stoeffi doubled up his fist, and Sami understood what that meant.

He had hardly gone when Michael said:

"See, Sami, there isn't much left of mine, you can do that too; I am going to see the bear."

Whereupon Michael ran off.

"Me, too," cried Uli, throwing down his hoe. "You can finish that also, Sami."

When the twilight came on and the family put the sour milk and the steaming potatoes on the
table, Sami was missing.

"I suppose he will keep us waiting," remarked the farmer's wife sharply. When all had finished
and the milk mugs were empty, the woman cleared them away and placed the few potatoes left
over on the kitchen table and growled:

"He can eat here, if he wants anything."

It was quite dark, and Sami still had not come. Just as the other three were being sent to
bed, he came in, so tired he could hardly stand. The woman asked him harshly, if he couldn't
come home with the others. The farmer assumed that the piece he had told Sami to weed had been
too much for him to do, and he said consolingly:

"It is right that you wanted to finish your work, but you must work faster."

Sami understood the signs which Stoeffi made behind his father's back, that he was to keep
silent about the bear, and he was too much afraid of the three boys' fists to say anything
about it.

He preferred to go straight to bed, for he was too tired to eat. But he couldn't go to sleep.
He had received so many new impressions, he had borne so much anguish, and had to do so much
work besides, he could think of nothing else. But now his grandmother came before his eyes
again as she had prayed with him at evening and had been so kind to him, and everything she
had told him. He wanted so much to pray, it seemed to him as if his grandmother was near and
told him the dear Lord would always comfort him if he prayed, and that comfort he was so anxious
to have.

He was so troubled, when he wondered if he could do his work the next day, so that the farmer
would not be cross, and how his wife would be, for he was very much afraid of her, and how
it would be with the boys, who forced him to make everything appear contrary to the truth.

Then Sami began to pray and prayed for a long time, for he already began to feel comforted,
because he could take refuge with the dear Lord and ask Him to help him, now that he had no
one left in the world to whom he could speak and who could assist him. When at last his eyes
closed from great weariness he dreamed he was sitting with his grandmother on the wall and
above them all the birds were singing so loud and so joyfully that he had to sing with them:
"Only trust the dear Lord!"

CHAPTER FOURTH

HARD TIMES

The following morning Sami was awakened by loud tones, but it was no longer the birds singing;
it was the farmer's wife ordering the boys harshly to get up right away. She had already called
them three times, and if this time they didn't obey, their father would come. Then they all
sprang out of bed and in a few minutes were down-stairs, where their father was already sitting
at the table and would not have waited much longer.

The day did not pass very differently from the one before, and thus passed a long series of
days. There was already a change in the work.

Sami, little by little, learned to do everything very well, for he took pains and followed
his grandmother's advice carefully. He always had something to do for the other boys still,
so that he never finished his work a moment before supper-time. But he was no longer late.
A change had also come about in this. Stoeffi had learned that there was one thing Sami could
not or would not do which he himself could do very well: he could not tell a lie.

He had been late again a couple of times, but had never told the reason. Finally, however,
the farmer had spoken harshly:

"Now speak out, and tell why you can't get through your work faster; you are quick enough when
anyone is watching you."

Then Sami had accordingly told all the truth, and the father had threatened to beat the boys
if they didn't do their work themselves. Afterwards Stoeffi had thrashed Sami to punish him,
and had warned him that he would do it every time Sami complained of him.

Sami had replied that he had never complained and didn't want to do so, but when his father
questioned him he could only tell him the truth. Stoeffi tried to explain to him that it didn't
matter whether he told the truth or not, but here he found Sami more obstinate than he had
expected, and no matter what fearful threats he hurled at him, he always said the same thing
in the end:

"But I shall do it."

This firmness was the result of Sami's sure conviction that the dear Lord heard and knew everything
and that lying was something wicked, which did not please Him.

So Stoeffi had to find some other way to get off from his work early and make Sami finish what
he left. He found that all three could never dare abandon their work and leave it for Sami,
but one of them might do so each evening, and he threatened to punish his brothers severely
if they would not agree to this. Then there would always be three or four evenings in succession
when Stoeffi wanted to go away early; then the brothers had to stay and work, and this led
to many a quarrel, with heavy blows which regularly fell upon Sami.

So he never had any happy days. But every evening he could be alone with his thoughts of his
grandmother, of all the beautiful bygone days and all the good words she had spoken to him.
Nobody troubled him, or called to him, or pulled him then, as usually happened all day long.

Thus the Summer and Autumn passed away, and a cold Winter had come. There was no more work
to be done in the fields and meadows, but there were all sorts of things to be done to help
the farmer in the barn and his wife in the house and the kitchen. This Sami had to do.

Meanwhile their own three boys could go to school, which had now begun again, for they had
to get some education. Sami could get that by and by. In the Summer he had acquired a good
deal of quickness and now did his work so skilfully that the farmer said a couple of times:

"I would not have believed it, for in the Summer he was always the last."

Sami now thought that everything would go easier than in the Summer, but something came which
was much harder to bear than the extra burden of work, which was too much for the others.

Every day the boys fought in the field outside, and Sami, as the smallest, always came off
with the most blows. But that was the end of it, and when the boys came home at night no one
thought any more about it. In the evening the three boys were assigned to the little room with
the feeble light of a low oil lamp, to do their arithmetic for school, while Sami had to cut
apples and pears for drying. From the first the three were angry because Sami had no arithmetic
to do, and then one would accuse the other of taking the light away from him, and all three
would scream that Sami didn't need any at all for his work. Then one would pull the lamp one
way, and another the other way, until it was upset and the oil would run over the table into
Sami's apples. Then there would be a really murderous tumult in the darkness; all hands would
grope in the oil and one would always outcry the others. Then the mother would come in very
cross and want to know who was always starting such mischief. Then one would blame the other,
and finally the blame would fall on Sami, because he made the least noise. Usually the farmer
too came in then, and his angry wife would always reply that she had indeed said the boy would
be an apple of discord in the house, and a Winter like this they had never experienced. Often
Sami had to endure many hard words and undeserved punishment. On such evenings he remained
sleepless for a long time sitting on his bed.

Then he would rack his brains as to how it could happen so, since his grandmother had told
him that if he was God-fearing everything would happen for the best. That he should be so scolded
and badly treated was not the best for him. He really wanted to be God-fearing and not forget
that the dear Lord saw and heard everything. But Sami was still very young and could not know,
what he later knew, that it is good for everyone if he learns early in life to bear hardship.
Then when the evil days, which none escape, come again later on, he can cope with them bravely,
because he knows them already and his strength has become hardened; and when the good days
come he can enjoy them as no one else can who has never tasted the bad ones.

At this time Sami knew nothing about this and almost never went to sleep without tears; indeed,
he often wondered whether the birds were still calling up in the ash-trees: "Only trust in
the dear Lord!" and if it were still true that everything would come out right. The only comfort
for him was that his grandmother had told him so positively, and he held fast to that.

It was a long, hard Winter. The snow lay so deep and immovable on the meadows and trees, that
Sami often asked with anxiety in his heart, if it would ever entirely disappear, so that the
meadows would be green again, and the flowers become alive. It was already April, and the cold
white covering of snow still lay all around. Then a warm wind from the South blew all one night
into the valley, and when on the next day a very warm rain fell, the obstinate snow melted
into great brooks. Then came the sun and dried up all the brooks, and everywhere the new young
grass sprang up over the meadows.

The four boys came across the big street of the village and turned into the meadow. They were
pulling along the cart, on which lay the cooking utensils which the farmer's wife had just
purchased at the annual fair in the village. The boys had followed their mother's command to
go slowly and carefully, so that nothing would be broken, for they knew very well that their
mother set great store by these things, and it was worth while to follow her instructions.

Now that they had come safely over the rough street and had turned into the meadow road, two
pulling, two pushing, they wanted to rest a little while. They stopped under the first large
pear-tree, stretched themselves out on the ground and looked up into the blue sky. In the pear-tree
above, the birds were singing merrily together, and suddenly one piped up in the midst of the
others, always the same note, exactly as if he had a special call to give.

"There he is," cried Sami, springing up from the ground with delight. Then he listened again,
and again sounded the staccato call, clear and sharp above the singing of all the other birds.

"Do you hear it? Do you hear it?" cried Sami in his delight. "Now he is calling again: 'Trust!
Trust! Trust! Trust!' And then they all sing together: 'Only trust the dear Lord!'"

"You are just talking nonsense!" exclaimed Stoeffi to the happy Sami. "The bird is more knowing
than you are. That is the rain bird; I know him well. He notices the rain-wind and is calling:
'Shower! Shower! Shower!' Then we know it is going to rain."

But Sami would not give up what was so dear to him and kept saying to himself:

"But he is singing: 'Trust! Trust! Trust! Trust!'"

"Keep quiet!" continued Stoeffi sharply to him. "You are nothing but a little tramp, who can't
do anything and doesn't know anything and twists everything he hears."

Then the blood rose to Sami's cheeks and the tears came into his eyes and, more courageously
than usual towards Stoeffi, he cried:

"I don't do that, but you have done it many times!"

Then Stoeffi sprang up and seized hold of Sami to throw him down; but in his anger Sami turned
quite differently from usual, so that Stoeffi had to call the others to help him.

A great struggle ensued; the blows became more and more violent, first on one side and then
on the other. Suddenly the cart was upset. A fearful cracking and crashing sounded, and a great
heap of red, brown and white crockery lay on the ground. Dumb with fright, the boys stood and
looked at the destruction.

Stoeffi was the first to recover himself.

"We will say that a wheel came off the cart, and it suddenly fell down." He immediately picked
up a big stone in order to pound out the nail and take the wheel off from the axle.

"I shall say just how it all happened, that we quarreled, and upset the wagon," said Sami calmly.

Then Steffi's wrath rose to its height.

"You traitor, you spy and mischief-maker!" he screamed. "You are nothing but a ragamuffin.
We will force you."

"You cannot," said Sami, "and you are no good either! If you were God-fearing, you would not
want to lie so."

"Well, well," they all screamed together, and shaking their fists in the most threatening way.
"You needn't say that. We are just exactly as God-fearing as you, and even much more so!"

Suddenly a new thought came to Stoeffi. He ran off with all his might, and Michael and Uli
rushed after him. Sami saw that they were hurrying to the house; he followed slowly after.
The farmer's wife had come back to the house by a shorter way, and the farmer was just returning
home too from the field, when the three boys came rushing along. The whole family was standing
in great excitement at the door and all were talking loudly together and making threatening
gestures, when Sami came along. He was met by the farmer, shaking his fist, and his wife threw
such harsh words at him that he stood quite dumfounded.

"That was the last straw," she said, "that after all the kindness he had received he should
tell them they were not God-fearing people."

Then the farmer joined in. Such talk was insolent from Sami, and it had been known for a long
time how upright they were in his house, before such a scamp had come there and tried to show
them the way. Then his wife began again and said Sami would have nothing more to do in her
house; for he had brought nothing but trouble since he stepped into it; he could go to his
room, and she would come right along.

Sami was so surprised and confused by all the attacks and charges, that he had stood quite
dumb until now. Now he wanted to explain how the cart had been upset, but the father said they
knew everything already, and all he had to do was to go to his room. He obeyed.

Soon the farmer's wife came upstairs, packed Sami's things together and tied them up again
into a bundle, which was now much smaller than when he had brought it there, for some pieces
of his old things had been worn out and were not replaced, and his grandmother's clothes were
no longer there.

While she was packing the woman kept on talking very angrily about Sami's wickedness and insolence,
so that he now for the first time understood it all. The boys had stated that he had reproached
them for not being God-fearing people; they had punished him for it, and through his resistance
he had overturned the cart. Sami now tried to explain to the woman that it had not happened
so, but she said she knew enough, threw his tied-up bundle beside his bed, and went out.

Now for the first time Sami was able to think over what had happened to him and what was going
to come. Then he was angry because he had to bear such injustice and not once have a chance
to speak. And now he was driven out, or perhaps he would be sent to people where it would be
even worse for him. Then he was so overcome with anger and fear and anguish, that he began
to cry aloud and called out:

"Yes, yes, Grandmother, you said if I was God-fearing everything would happen to me for the
best; and I have been, and now it has happened this way!"

But with the thought of his grandmother, there rose in his heart all the memories of his life
with her, how they had wandered so peacefully through the meadows, and how beautiful it had
been under those trees, how the birds had sung and the brook murmured, and suddenly Sami was
mightily overcome, and he exclaimed:

"Away! away! Over there! over there!"

From that moment on a bright light rose in his heart. It was hope in a new life as beautiful
as the first had been. Then Sami said his evening prayer gladly and fell asleep.

CHAPTER FIFTH

THE BIBDS ARE STILL SINGING

The next morning when Sami sat at the table with the family, no one said a word to him. The
farmer's wife pushed a piece of bread towards his coffee-cup and made up an unfriendly face.
The farmer was no different. The three boys looked sourly down at their coffee-cups, for they
had no good consciences, and all three feared that their lies of the day before might yet be
found out, if Sami should happen to speak.

When they rose from the table, the farmer said shortly:

"Get your bundle! I shall have to lose more time with you, until I have found a place for you,
for surely no one will want you."

Since the night before a change had taken place in Sami. He no longer hung his head, as he
had done almost always before from fear; he lifted it up and said:

"I know already where I must go."

The farmer and his wife looked at each other in astonishment.

"I want to go over the mountains," he added.

"Yes, that is best, that he should go back there, where he came from," said the farmer's wife
quickly; "there will no doubt be someone going over there from the inn. Go quickly with him
up there."

This seemed right to the farmer also. The leave-taking was as short as possible, and Sami was
light-hearted when he started with his little bundle on his back away from his cousins' house.

At the inn, sure enough, they found a driver who was going with a big wood-wagon to Chateau
d'AEux. He was ready to take the boy with him and thought he would be able to find someone
to take him farther, if the boy knew his way down there on the French side. The farmer said
Sami had been brought up there and wanted to go back, he knew where.

Now the driver was ready. Sami's bundle was thrown into the wagon and the boy seated on it.

"Good luck!" said the farmer, gave Sami his hand and went away.

Then the driver swung himself up on his seat and the two strong horses started off. Although
the wood-wagon was far less handsome and easy than the coach in which Sami had come, still
he sat much happier in his hard seat than when he had left his grandmother lying so alone and
had to go away, without knowing where. Now he was going home, where he knew everything and
where everything was dear to him, every tree and every wall by the way; and although he wouldn't
see his grandmother any longer, he would find all the places where he had been with her and
where it was more beautiful than anywhere else. With these thoughts a multitude of questions
arose in Sami's mind: Would everything be still the same as before? Would the ash-trees still
be standing there by the wall? and the red and yellow flowers be growing on the hillside? And
Sami had so much to think about that he didn't notice how the time was passing. So he was very
much astonished when the wagon stopped, for they had come to a large village, and the driver
took firm hold of him, lifted him up and set him down on the street. Sami looked around him.
They had stopped in front of an inn, above which a big brown bear stood for a sign and which
was surrounded by all kinds of vehicles. But he couldn't look around any longer, for the driver
had already seized him again and lifted him together with his bundle into another team and
then went away. Soon he came back with a large piece of bread and said:

"There, eat; you still have far to go."

"Are we yet in Chateau d'AEux?" asked Sami.

"Yes, to be sure, but you are going farther," was the reply; then the driver disappeared.

Sami was now sitting in a small country wagon to which an enormous horse was harnessed. No
one was as yet up in the high seat, but Sami was seated with his bundle back in the empty space
on the floor. Then two big, stout men climbed up on the high seat, and they started away. After
a short time Sami's eyes closed involuntarily, he slipped off on the floor of the wagon, his
head fell over on his bundle, and he sank into a deep sleep. When he woke again, he was still
in the wagon on the floor, but everything was quiet around him; he did not hear the horse trotting;
the wagon was no longer moving forward. It looked very strange all around him. He looked, and
looked again, until he realized what had happened. The wagon was standing without horse or
driver in a shed; they had forgotten Sami and left him lying there.

"Where can I be?" Sami asked himself. The door of the shed stood open, and outside there was
bright sunshine. Sami climbed down from his sleeping-place, stepped outside and went a little
way farther around the house, which stood directly in front of the shed. Then he knew everything
about it--there stood the house with the garden, where he had taken the beautiful coach; right
before him was the railway station--he was in Aigle again. Only a little way farther in the
train and he would be at home!

Then it came to Sami that here he could no longer talk with the people, for now he was among
the French. But he knew what to do. He still had the little bag with his grandmother's money.
He ran to the place where the people were getting their tickets, laid a piece of money in front
of the little window, and said: "La Tour!"

Immediately he had his ticket; he sprang into the train, which was already standing outside,
and crouched down quickly in his corner, the very same corner where he had sat before with
Herr Malon. He knew all the names which were called out at the stations; nearer and nearer
he came--now--"La Tour!" He jumped down and ran to the right across the fields, then to the
left up the hill. He knew every tree along the way. Now--there stood the wall, there stood
the ash-trees and their tops were waving to and fro. Underneath, the clear brook was murmuring,
and above, on the hillside, the bright sun was shining on the big golden primroses and the
red anemones. It was all exactly as it had been before! Moreover, above--oh, that was the most
beautiful of all!--up in the ash-trees the birds were piping and singing as loudly and as merrily
as ever and, to be sure, there was the chief singer, the finch. "Trust! Trust! Trust! Trust!"
sounded his clear song, and all the birds joined in with their warbling and rejoiced loudly:

"Only trust the dear Lord!"

Sami was so overcome because everything was still exactly the same as he had known it before,
that he stood speechless for a long time and listened, looking around him and listening again.
It seemed so good to him and he had never felt such happiness in his heart since that evening
when he had sat there with his grandmother. Now his grandmother rose so vividly before him,
that he suddenly threw himself down on the wall and wept. She was no longer there, and would
come back to him no more. But all the good words she had spoken to him here that evening rose
vividly in his heart, and it seemed as if he distinctly heard her talking again, and as if
she must really be quite near and see him.

Sami straightened himself up again, sat a while longer listening, and then began to think what
he should do. At first he wanted to go to Malon and ask him if he could work for him, perhaps
get out the weeds in his vineyard. But he could not explain to him why he was there again;
they would not understand each other and Malon might think he had done something wrong and
had been sent away for it by his cousin. But perhaps the woman who always gave mending to his
grandmother would set him to work in her garden. She lived down below, near the Lake. He jumped
down from the wall. Once more he looked at the hillside, and up into the tree, but he could
come here again; he was here and could stay here.

On the way he thought how he could explain to the woman what he wanted to do for her. He would
bend down and show her how he could pull up the weeds; then he would show her by a gesture
that he knew how to hoe.

There stood already the old castle of La Tour before him, with its two high, weather-beaten
towers, which he had looked at so many times. All around and high up thick ivy covered the
old walls, and above them multitudes of merry birds were chirping. Sami had to stop and listen
to their happy singing for a while, then he went along by the high old wall around the courtyard,
for he wanted to see if it was still the same as before down below in the lonely place where
the water kept falling on the old stones and singing a gentle song. He had once stood there
a long time with his grandmother. There lay the place before him, but it was not lonely. A
big wagon was standing there, with a grey cover stretched over it. No horse stood in front
of it, but a thin nag was nibbling the hedge, and this evidently belonged to the wagon. Near
the old castle tower a fire was blazing merrily; a man was sitting by it, hammering with all
his might. Close by him four little children were crawling around on the ground. Sami stood
still at this unexpected sight, then came slowly a little nearer. Then he heard the man warning
the children not to come so near the fire. This he was doing in Sami's own language, exactly
as all the people in Zweisimmen had spoken. This gave courage to Sami; he came along quite
near, and watched the man mend a hole in an old pan.

"Does it please you?" asked the man, after Sami had looked on attentively for some time. The
boy answered by nodding his head.

"Are you French, that you can't talk?" asked the man again.

Sami then said he could talk, but not at all in French, but he was glad that the tinker spoke
German, because otherwise he would not be able to understand anyone there.

"Whom do you belong to?" asked the man again.

"Nobody," answered Sami.

Then the man wanted to know where he had come from and why he had come among the French. Sami
told him his history, and how he had only come there again that morning.

"And now don't you know at all what you are going to do, and where you are going?" asked the man.

Sami said he did not.

"If I knew that you would do something, and not just stand around and look in the air, I would
give you work," continued the man, "but such stray waifs as you are not willing to do anything."

Meanwhile a woman had come from the wagon. She had heard her husband's last words.

"Take him," she said. "What work is there for him? He might run errands; all boys can do that.
I never get through with the running about and the four bawlers, and the cooking besides; take
him!"

"Well, stay here," said the man; "you can carry the pan back; it is very good that you know
the way."

Sami had suddenly found a place; he did not himself know how, but he was very glad about it.
Quite content, he started out with his pan and did exactly as the tinker had told him. He wandered
through the long street of La Tour, went into every house and showed his mended pan. He made
significant gestures, to make the people understand that he would like to get more articles
to mend. This he did so eagerly and earnestly that most of the people burst out laughing, and
this put them in such good humor that they always found a pan or a kettle with a hole hi it
which they handed him to be repaired.

Thus in a short time Sami had collected as much old stuff as he was able to carry, and could
now take his pan to the house pointed out to him, where it belonged. Then he turned back.

The tinker was very much pleased with Sami's harvest and his wife said very kindly, if he kept
on doing like that, he would get along all right, but he must sit down at once and have some
supper. The four little children were no longer there. Sami guessed that they were lying out
in the wagon asleep. On the fire a pot was now standing. It was bubbling merrily inside and
from under the cover came forth a very inviting odor. Sami had never been so hungry in his
life before, for he had had nothing the whole day but the rest of the piece of bread which
the driver had given him the day before in Chateau d'AEux.

The woman took the cover off the pot and filled three dishes with the good-smelling soup. Each
of the three now placed his dish before him on the ground, and the meal began.

Nothing had ever tasted so good to Sami in all his life as this soup. It was not a thin soup,
it was as thick as pulp, of cooked peas and potatoes, and with this quite large lumps of meat
came into his spoon.

When he had finished, the woman said:

"You can go to sleep whenever you want to. In the back of the wagon there is room, and your
bundle will make a good pillow."

This seemed a little strange to Sami, and he said:

"Must I sleep in my clothes?"

The woman thought he would find that he would not be too warm in the night. He would be ready
all the sooner in the morning. Then he could wash his face quickly down in the lake and be
all in order again for the next day.

