Quilting also came into vogue in the making of bedspreads, of which great numbers were required
during the winter nights in the poorly heated bedrooms. The quilts intended for service were
made of substantial, well-wearing material. None of these strictly utilitarian quilts is left,
but they were certainly plentiful. The old chroniclers give us a glimpse of what the women
of these days cherished by telling us that in 1540 Katherine Howard, afterward wife of Henry
VIII, was presented with twenty-three quilts of Sarsenet, closely quilted, from the Royal Wardrobe.

Tradition says that, during the reign of Henry VIII, the much used and popular "black work"
or "Spanish work" was introduced into England by his Spanish wife, Catherine of Aragon. It
has been found that this work did not originate in Spain but was taken there probably by the
Moors or by the Crusaders, for it is known to have been perfected at a very remote period in
both Persia and China. The following interesting description of black work is from Mrs. Lowes'
"Chats on Old Lace and Needlework":

"The work itself was a marvel of neatness, precision, and elegant design, but the result cannot
be said to have been commensurate with the labour of its production. More frequently the design
was of scrollwork, worked with a fine black silk back stitching or chain stitch. Round and
round the stitches go, following each other closely. Bunches of grapes are frequently worked
solidly, and even the popular peascod is worked in outline stitch, and often the petit point
period lace stitches are copied, and roses and birds worked separately and afterward stitched
to the design." There are many examples of this famous "Spanish work" in the South Kensington
Museum in London. Quilts, hangings, coats, caps, jackets, smocks, are all to be seen, some
with a couched thread of gold and silver following the lines of the scrolls. This is said to
be the Spanish stitch referred to in the old list of stitches, and very likely may be so, as
the style and manner are certainly not English; and we know that Catherine of Aragon brought
wonders of Spanish stitchery with her, and she herself was devoted to the use of the needle.
The story of how, when called before Cardinal Wolsey and Campeggio, to answer to King Henry's
accusations, she had a skein of embroidery silk round her neck, is well known.

"The black silk outline stitchery on linen lasted well through the late seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries. Very little of it is seen outside the museums, as, not being strikingly beautiful
or attractive, it has been destroyed. Another phase of the same stitchery was working cotton
and linen garments, hangings and quilts in a kind of quilted pattern with yellow silk. The
finest materials were used, the padding being placed bit by bit into its place. The quilting
work was made in tiny panels, illustrating shields and other heraldic devices, and had a surface
as fine as carved ivory. When, as in the case of one sample at South Kensington, the quilt
is additionally embroidered with fine floss silk flowers, the effect is very lovely."

One interesting feature of "black work" and similar flat embroideries was their constant use
in decorating furnishings for the bedroom. It was peculiarly well adapted for quilts, as its
rather smooth surface admirably resisted wear.

Fashions in needlework changed, but not with the same rapidity as in clothing. Gradually ideas
and customs from other countries crept into England and new influences were felt. An established
trade with the Orient brought Eastern products to her markets, and oriental designs in needlework
became popular. About this time "crewel" was much in vogue. This was embroidery done with coloured
woollen threads and was a step backward in the art. Some of this "crewel" work, done in the
seventeenth century, is described by M. Jourdain in "English Secular Embroidery": "These hangings,
bed curtains, quilts, and valances are of linen or a mixture of cotton and linen, and one type
is embroidered with bold, freely designed patterns in worsted. They are worked almost always
in dull blues and greens mixed with more vivid greens and some browns, but rarely any other
colouring."

A very curious custom of these days was the use of "mourning beds," with black hangings, coverlets,
and even sheets. As these funereal articles of furniture were quite expensive, it was a friendly
custom to lend these mourning beds to families in time of affliction. In 1644 Mrs. Eure wrote
to Sir Ralph Verney: "Sweet Nephew, I am now overrun with miserys and troubles, but the greatest
misfortune that could happen to me was the death of the gallantest man (her husband) that I
ever knew." Whereupon Sir Ralph, full of sympathy, "offers her the loan of the great black
bed and hangings from Claydon."

Interesting indeed are descriptions of wonderful old quilts that are now guarded with zealous
care in English museums. One, an original and striking design, is closely quilted all over
in small diamonds. Upon it is embroidered an orange tree in full leaf and loaded with fruit.
This tree, together with the fancy pot in which it is planted, covers practically the entire
quilt. In the lower corners a gentleman is shown picking oranges and a lady in a patient attitude
is waiting to receive them, the figures of both being scarcely taller than the flower pot.
The whole design is made up of gayly coloured silks evidently worked in after the quilting
was done. Mention is also made of an elaborate quilt said to be the work of Queen Anne, which
is preserved at Madresfield Court. Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, in giving an order for house
furnishings for her "wild, unmerciful house" about 1720, asks for "a vast number of feather
beds, some filled with swansdown, and a vast number of quilts."

Mrs. Delany, who lived from 1700 to 1788, and left a large correspondence relating to needlework,
which was later edited by Lady Llanover, was a most prolific worker with her needle as well
as a profuse letter writer. She was often quoted as an authority and given credit for much
originality in her designs. A quilt that she made is described as follows: "Of white linen
worked in flowers, the size of nature, delineated with the finest coloured silks in running
stitch, which is made use of in the same way as by a pen etching on paper; the outline was
drawn with pencil. Each flower is different, and evidently done at the moment from the original."
Another quilt of Mrs. Delany's was made upon a foundation of nankeen. This was unique in that
no colours were used besides the dull yellow of the background. Applied designs of leaves tied
together with ribbons, all cut from white linen and stitched to the nankeen with white thread,
made a quilt no wise resembling the silken ones of earlier periods. This quilt may be termed
a forerunner of the vast array of pieced and patched washable quilts belonging to the nineteenth
century.

The embroidering of quilts followed the process of quilting, which afforded the firm foundation
essential for heavy and elaborate designs. There were many quilts made of white linen quilted
with yellow silk thread, and afterward embroidered very tastefully with yellow silk floss.
Terry, in the history of his "Voyage to the East Indies," made about the middle of the seventeenth
century, says: "The natives show very much ingenuity in their manufactures, also in making
excellent quilts of their stained cloth, or of fresh-coloured taffeta lined with their prints,
or of their satin with taffeta, betwixt which they put cotton wool, and work them together
with silk."

