There is nothing more common in experience and observation than the partiality felt by young
and unmarried men for the society of married women, and the love of unmarried young women for
the society of married men. I suppose that nearly every young man and young woman has a time
of feeling that all the desirable matches in the world are disposed of, and that the marriageable
young persons left are really very insipid companions. This is entirely natural, but exceedingly
unreasonable. To expect a man to be as much of a man without a wife as with one, is just as
reasonable as to expect a half-finished house to be as beautiful as a finished one. It is impossible
for an unmarried man, other things being equal, to be as agreeable a companion as a married
man; and lest I be suspected of a jest in this statement, I wish to assure my reader that I
am entirely in earnest. Intimate contact with the nature of a good woman, in the relation of
marriage, is just as necessary to the completeness of manhood, as the details of an architectural
design are to the homely conveniences around which they are made to cluster. Every man is a
better man for having children, and the more he extends those relations which grow out of the
family life, the more does he open up to culture and carry to completeness the very choicest
portions of his manly nature. It is natural, therefore, that the unmarried woman should become
possessed of the notion that all the desirable men are married, and that the unmarried man
should be the subject of a similar mistake with relation to the other sex. It must be remembered
that men and women are made desirable by matrimony, and that half-finished work should not
be subjected to any sweeping judgments.

Men and women are always turning out differently from what we expected and predicted they would.
Men who have been laughed at and slighted during all their early life, become, quite to our
surprise, very important and notable persons, and we are mortified to ascertain that we have
been criticizing half-finished men. The college faculty give a diploma to some very slow young
man, with great reluctance, but in the course of twenty years he completes himself, and when
he comes back to honor them with a visit they make very low bows to him. All young people are
pieces of unfinished work, to be judged very carefully, and always to be regarded as incomplete.
We can say that we do not like their general style, as we would say that we do not like the
style of an unfinished house. Grecian may not be to our liking, and we may prefer Gothic.

It seems to me that the Christian Church suffers more from the judgments of those who criticize
unfinished work than any organized body of men and women. Here is an organization whose members
do not pretend to perfection; whose whole theory forbids any such idea. They are disciples--learners
of the Divine Master. They are members of a school in which none ever arrives at fulness of
knowledge. Their prayer is that they may grow; and they know that if they have the true life
in them they will grow while they live. If there is one thing in the world of which they are
painfully conscious, it is that they are pieces of unfinished work. Some of the members are
very much lower in the scale of completeness than others. In some there is only a confused
pile of timber and bricks. In others only a part of the frame is up, or the walls are hardly
more than begun. In others, perhaps, the roof is on. In comparatively few do we see the outlines
all defined and the rooms in a good degree of completeness. In none of them is there a perfected
structure, and none see and acknowledge their incompleteness more than those whose characters
are farthest advanced toward perfection.

Now I put it to the world outside of the Christian Church to say if it has been entirely fair,
and just in its judgments of the Church. Has it not judged Christianity by these imperfect
disciples, and has it not condemned these imperfect disciples because they are not what they
never pretended to be? Has it not criticized half-finished work, and condemned, not only the
work, but Christianity itself, because this work was not up to the sample? It is very common
to hear men say that such and such a Christian is no better than the average of people outside
of the Christian Church, thus condemning the genuineness of his character because he is not
a perfect Christian. A house is a house, even if it be only half-finished. At least, it is
not any thing else; and as Christians cannot by any possibility be perfected on the instant,
it follows that the large majority of Christians must be in various stages of progress--nay,
that most of this large majority are not even half-finished. The Christian Church itself is
a piece of unfinished work, and every individual member is the same. It is not pretended that
either is any thing else. I never knew a Christian to set himself up as a pattern. So far as
I know, they are very shy of pretension, and deprecate nothing more than the thought that anybody
should take them for finished specimens of the work of Christianity in human life and character.

A sermon upon any important subject is always a piece of
unfinished work. I once heard a famous preacher say that he could
preach throughout his whole life on the text, "the heart is deceitful
above all things and desperately wicked," and even then have
something left to say. The statement illustrates the many-sidedness
of truth, and the multitude of its relations to the life of the individual
and the world. Any sensible preacher knows that, within the compass
of a single sermon, he can only present a single aspect of a great
and important truth, yet he is criticized as if it had been expected
that the work of a dozen volumes could be crowded into the
 utterances of half an hour. What is called an "exhaustive" sermon
would exhaust an audience long before it would its subject. A sermon
is only the dab of a brush upon a great picture, and if it gives a
single striking view of a single great truth, it accomplishes its object.
It must necessarily be an unfinished piece as regards its exposition
of truth; and the same may be said of any essay on any subject.
Every writer begins in the middle of things, and leaves off in the
middle of things; and every thing he writes relates at some point to
every thing that everybody has written. No man cleans up the field
over which he walks, and leaves nothing to be said; and the best
we do is unfinished work.

There are those who, in view of the sin and suffering which appear on every hand, are moved
to impugn the goodness and love of Him who created the world by His power, and sustains and
orders it by His providence. Millions are whelmed in the darkness of heathenism; other millions
are bound by the chains of slavery; the oppressor is clothed in purple and fine linen; the
beautiful and innocent are the victims of treacherous lust; children cry for bread beneath
the windows of luxury; justice is denied to the poor by men who take bribes of wealth; and
deceit circumvents and baffles honor. Such a world as this the critics condemn as a failure,
which reflects alike upon the benevolence and power of its Maker; but these men have an eminent
place among the fools who criticize half-finished work. If they could have witnessed the creation
of the earth, and watched it through all the processes by which it was prepared for the reception
of the human race, they would doubtless have been quite as critical as they are now, and quite
as unreasonable. Suppose a man should visit his pear-trees in midsummer, and on tasting the
fruit upon them, should condemn them and order them to be cut down and removed--how should
we characterize his folly? He has criticized half-finished fruit, and made a fatal mistake.
It is just as unreasonable to condemn a half-finished world as a half-finished pear. Human
society must be brought to perfection by regularly instituted and slowly operating processes.
It may take as long to perfect society as it did to create the world that it lives on; and
God is not to be found fault with for the flavor of a fruit slowly ripening beneath the light
of His smile and the warmth of His love, but not yet fully ripe.

Mr. Buckle has undertaken to write a history of civilization, or, rather, he has commenced
to write an introduction to a history of civilization. His progress has not been great, and
he doubtless realizes that he has undertaken a task which he can never finish. He will probably
labor upon it while he lives, and then some other daring man will take up the thread where
he will drop it, and go on until he in turn will be obliged to relinquish his unfinished task
to a successor. When the work shall be finished, after its original design, it will doubtless
be found to be antiquated. It undertook to organize a half-finished life--to reason upon forces
that had only half revealed their nature and their power--to develop principles whose relations
were imperfectly known. In short, it must necessarily prove to be a half-finished history of
a half-finished civilization, whose every newly-opened event will throw a modifying light on
all that shall have preceded it.

We have, therefore, but little finished work in this world. Not a finished character lives
among mankind. No nation of the world illustrates a consummate civilization. All presentations
of truth, of whatever nature and relation, are necessarily incomplete. Life is too short, comprehension
too limited in its grasp, and expression too feeble or too clumsy, to allow the mind fully
to organize, vitalize, and fill out to roundness and just proportion, a single creature of
legitimate art. It is, therefore, literally true that the criticisms of the world are the judgments
of the world's half-finished men on the world's half-finished affairs. Imperfection sits in
judgment on incompleteness, and the natural consequence is that criticism, in whatever field
of demonstration, is little more than a record of notions which assume to array themselves
against other notions, which may be better or worse than those that oppose them.

It is with a depressing sense of the incompleteness of these lessons in life, that I now indite
their closing paragraph. I cannot but be aware that the criticisms I have indulged in relate
very largely to half-finished work, and I painfully feel that they are the product of a most
imperfect judgment. If the reader has found them kind, charitable, hopeful--tending toward
that which is good--and lenient toward human frailty, loyal to common sense, and faithful to
virtue; if he has found in them that which leaves him a larger and a more liberal man--advanced
in some degree toward that perfection which we are ever striving for, but which we never reach,
then my aim has been accomplished, bid him God speed!

THE END.