The Author's Press Series of the Works of Elinor Glyn

THE POINT OF VIEW

ELINOR GLYN

CHAPTER I

The restaurant of the Grand Hotel in Rome was filling up. People were dining rather late--it
was the end of May and the entertainments were lessening, so they could dawdle over their repasts
and smoke their cigarettes in peace.

Stella Rawson came in with her uncle and aunt, Canon and the Honorable Mrs. Ebley, and they
took their seats in a secluded corner. It was the Anselm,
as he had imbued with reverence to fall to their knees, but then rose Archivarius Lindhorst in the trunk
of a palm tree in the air and disappeared into the emerald leaves. - The student Anselm understood
that the spirit prince spoke to him, now in his study gone up to maybe the rays sent some planet as ambassadors
to him, to consult with someone what should be done with him and the lovely Serpentina. - Also be,
he thought further that it expects new from the sources of the Nile, or that a Magus from Lapland
to see him - it behooves me now busy to go to work. - And so he began the strange character of
the parchment to study. - The wonderful music of the Garden sounded over to him and surrounded
him with sweet sweet scents, and he could hear kickern the mocking birds, but he understood
her words were not what he liked and wanted to. Sometimes It was also known as the emerald
leaves rustled the palm trees and then as the incident lovely crystal sounds which Anselmus on that
fateful Ascension Day under the Elder heard across the room. The student Anselm, strengthened
by this wonderful Sound and lighting set up, always solid and solid mind and thoughts on the
headline the roll of parchment, and soon he felt out of the heart that the characters are
not could mean different than the words of the marriage of the salamander and the green snake.
- Since there was a strong triad bright crystal bells. - "Anselm, Anselm dear," It blew him
out of the leaves, and wonder of wonders! wound on the trunk of the palm tree is the green snake down.
- "Serpentina! lovely Serpentina! "said Anselm, as in the madness the highest delight, because
the way he looked sharper, because it was a lovely lovely Girls with dark blue eyes, how they
lived within him, full of unspeakable Longing look at him, meet him floating. The leaves seemed
to condescend and extend everywhere sprouted thorns from the stems, but hikers and Serpentina is sent
through by her fluttering, as in bright colors, shiny dress moved to, so that it is clinging to
the slim body was nowhere to hang the projecting points and spines of the palm trees. She sat
down next to the Anselmus the same Chair, pushing him with his arms and embracing in itself,
so that he the breath, which by their Lips flowed, the electric warmth of her body felt. Dear
Anselmus, "began Serpentina on, "now you're all mine now, by your faith, by your love You win
me and I'll bring the golden pot that will be gracing both forever. "-" O sweet you, dear Serpentina,
"said Anselm," if I saw you only what I care about everything else else? If you're my only,
I will gladly go down in all 'the miraculous and strange, what befängt me since the moment I saw
you. "-" I know, "continued Serpentina, "That the unknown and miraculous, which my father
often his humor to the game you have embraced, Horror and terror aroused in you, but now it
will, I hope, not happen again, for I am in this moment only there to you, my dear Anselmus,
anything and everything from deep mind to tell minutely from deep soul, what you need to know,
for my father to know all, and generally quite clear to see what it is with him and with me for
a Explanation added. "The Anselmus was when he was so lovely lovely form of the whole and even wrapped
and tied that he could only move with it rain and, and as if only the beating of her heart rate, trembling
through his nerves and nervous, and he listened on every word that rang up in its innermost
and like a bright beam, the Bliss of heaven kindled in him. He had his arm around her slender body
as slim down, but the flamboyant shiny fabric of her dress was so slippery, so slippery that
It seemed as if she could join him escape quickly developed tapping, irresistible, and he
shuddered at the thought. "Oh, do not leave me, lovely Serpentina!" He exclaimed involuntarily
out, "only you are my life" - "Not likely today," said Serpentina, "when I and all 've told
what you can conceive in your love for me. - Know then, beloved, that my father is from the
wonderful family of salamanders descended, and that I my life His love for the green snake
owe. In ancient times there was in the Wonderland Atlantis the mighty spirits prince Phosphorus,
which were the elemental spirits. Einstein was the salamander, he loved above all (it was my
father), in the magnificent gardens, the mother of Phosphorus adorned with their finest gifts
to the glorious, had heard about, and how high Lily sang in low tones: to "Hit the eyes, until
my lover, the morning wind, . You wake "He drew near, touched by his glowing breath, opened
up the lily leaves their and he saw the daughter lily, the green snake, which lay dormant
in the cup. Since was the salamander of hot love with the beautiful snake taken, and he robbed the
lily, the scents in a nameless action in vain throughout the garden after the beloved daughter cried.
For the salamander had carried them in the castle of Phosphorus and asked him: marry me with the
beloved, for they shall be my own forever. Foolish, what thou hast! said the Prince of the Spirits,
know that once the lily was my lover and prevailed with me; But the spark that I threw at them,
threatened to destroy them and only victory over the black Kite which now hold the spirits of the
earth was bound in chains, the lily, that their leaves remained strong enough to close the
spark in themselves and to preserve. But when you see the green Snake hug, your fire will
consume the body and a new system quickly emporkeimend entschwingen to you. The salamander respected
the warning of the ghost princes, fully incandescent Desire, he closed the green snake in his arms,
she fell into ashes, and a winged Being born from the ashes swept away by the winds. As the
madness took hold of the Salamander of the desperation and he ran fire and flame spraying the
garden and destroyed him in a wild rage, that the most beautiful flowers and blossoms burned and
sank her lamentations the Filled with air. The Prince hocherzürnte spirits seized in fury the salamander,
saying Ausgeraset Your fire has - gone are your flames, blind your rays - to fall down the spirits
of the earth, which you may scoff and tease and caught hold until the fire is fabric re-ignited
and emits up to you as a new being from the earth.

The poor Salamander sank off, but there was the grumpy old earth-spirit, that of the Phosphorus gardener
was added, saying, Lord! who should complain more about the salamander I? Have I not all the
beautiful flowers he burned with my loveliest metals cleaned? I have not entertained their germs
on them bravely and well kept and some beautiful color wasted? - And yet I take myself to the poor
salamander, the only love in the You yourself have often, O Lord, biased, driven to despair,
in which he laid waste the garden. Decrees him to severe punishment! - His fire is extinguished
for now, said the Prince of the Spirits; in the unfortunate time
when the language of nature to the degenerate race of men no longer
makes sense when the elemental spirits imprisoned in their regions,
only further Distance speak in muffled echoes of the people, when
caught the harmonic circle only an infinite yearning will give him
the dark news of the wonderful empire, which otherwise he could live,
even as faith and love in his soul, lived - in this unfortunate time
of the fire ignited material on the salamander's new, but only for
people sprout up, and he must bear in very poor detail the life, its
hardships.

But not only the memory of its original state is to remain to him, but he also lives again
in the holy harmony with all nature, he sees their miracles and the power the brotherhood
spirit him at command. In a lily bush he finds the green Snake again, and the fruit of his marriage
with her three daughters, the man appear in the shape of the mother. For the spring time they
are in the dark elder hang and sound their voices so sweet crystal. Is then found in the poor
miserable time of inner stubbornness a young man who hears her singing, yes, looks him one of the
snakes with their gentle eyes, it's the eye kindled in him the idea the Far wonderful country to
which he may soar boldly, because he the burden of Commons dropped germinate, with the love
of a serpent in his belief in the wonders of the Nature, even to his own existence in these miracles
glowing and alive, so is the his snake. But not invent more, to three young men of this type and the
three daughters be married, the salamander may shed its onerous burden and go to his brothers.
Allow me, Lord said the earth spirit that I make these three daughters, a gift that you Live
with the husband found glorified. Each receives from me a pot of beautiful Metal that I own, I polish
with the rays, which I found in the diamond, and in his Glory to our wonderful kingdom, as
it now exists in harmony with all nature, mirrored in dazzling magnificent glow, from his mind
but the moment of Marriage of a fire lily spring up like everlasting flower, found the young man
proved sweet fragrance envelops. Soon he will be their language, understand the wonders of
our kingdom, and even live with his lover in Atlantis. - You now know well, dear Anselmus that
my father just the salamander, from which I told you. He was in spite of his higher nature to submit
to the most petty tribulations of ordinary life, and therefore is probably often mischievous
humor with which he teases some. He has often told me that for the inner Mental condition, as
the spirit prince Phosphorus bethinging time as the marriage with me and my sisters set up, you
now have an expression that only too often indecorous way be abused, we call this namely a
child's poetic soul. - Often we find this spirit in youths, the simplicity of their manners due
to the high and because it was really lacking in the so-called World Education, would be mocked
by the mob. Oh, dear Anselmus, you understood even among the elder my singing - my view - You love
the green snake, you believe in me and want to be mine forever! The beautiful Lily will bloom
up from the golden cup and we will happily united and happy in Atlantis ! Live - But I can
not deny you that in the terrible struggle with the salamanders and Earth spirits, the black
dragon and start walking it roared through the air. Phosphorus has Although it back in bondage,
but from the black feathers, dusted in the struggle on the ground, germinated hostile spirits up,
which all oppose the salamanders and earth spirits. That woman who is so hostile to you, dear
Anselmus, and, as my father knows very well aspires to the possession of the golden pot, it has
the existence of such a love from which Wing of the dragon herabgestäubten spring due to a beet.
It recognizes their Origin and violence, as in the moans, are caught in the convulsions of
the Dragon it seems the secrets of some wonderful constellation, and it has all resources
act on, from the outside into the interior, while it my father with the lightning, from the
shoot out the interior of the Salamanders, combats. All the enemy's principle in the harmful herbs
and poisonous animals live, gather them, and excited, mixing, convenient Constellation, some evil
specter, the befängt human senses with dread and horror him and the power of the demons that
created the dragon in battle under lying subjects. Watch out for the elderly care, rather Anselmus,
she hates you because your child pious Mind already destroyed some of their evil spells. -
Holding true - true - are on me, now You are on target - O my! "- My Serpentina" cried the student
Anselm, "how should I then! be only about you can, I should not love you forever "- a burning
kiss on his mouth, he awoke as from a deep dream; Serpentina had disappeared, it struck sechs
clock because it was hard for him his heart that he had not copied the least, he looked full of concern,
which will tell the Archivarius well on the page, and wonder of wonders! the copy of the mysterious
manuscript was ended happily, and he believed that the sharper features contemplating Serpentina's
story of her father, the darling of the Spirit-prince Phosphorus in Wonderland Atlantis to have
been written off. Now the Archivarius Lindhorst joined in his gray-white Overcoat, his hat
on his head, his stick in his hand in, he looked into what the Anselmus described parchment, took
a big pinch, and said with a smile, as I thought! Now! here is the speciedaler, Mr. Anselm,
now we want to go after the Left's bath - Just me! - Archivarius strode through the garden, where
such a noise by singing, whistling, talking was upset that the student was quite stunned Anselmus
and thanked the heavens when he was on the road. They had hardly gone a few steps when she
met the Registrar army fire, which ensued friendly themselves. Before the gates stuffed They
brought along the pipe, and the registrar Heerbrand no lighter defendant at his , that as
the Archivarius Lindhorst called out quite angrily: "what lighter! - Here is fire, as much as you want!
"And he snapped his fingers, from which flowed great spark, the pipe lit quickly. "You see,
the chemical tricks," said the registrar Army fire, but the student did not Anselmus without
inner earthquake in the salamander. - The Left's bathing drank the registrar army fire as much
strong double beer, which he otherwise a good-natured quiet man began in a squeaky tenor boys
sing songs, and each asked heatedly, whether he is his friend or not, and finally by the students
Anselmus had to be brought home when the Archivarius Lindhorst long ago, and it was.

NINTH vigil

As the student came to Anselmus some reason. - The Punch society. - As the Student Anselmus the vice-principal
Paul man held for one owl and this very angry thereat. - The ink blot and its consequences.

All the strange and wonderful that the students had met Anselmus daily, had caught him very ordinary
life. He saw no more of his friends and waited for everyone Morning with impatience for the
twelfth hour, he unlocked his paradise. And yet, by his whole mind of the lovely Serpentina and
the wonders of the fairy kingdom in which Archivarius Lindhorst was facing, he could not help
thinking sometimes involuntarily Veronica, sometimes seemed him as if they were up to him and
confess, blushing, how heartily she loved him and how they to aspire to snatch him the phantoms of
whom he would only teased and ridiculed. Sometimes it was as cracks a strange, suddenly collapsing
on him Make him irresistible back to the forgotten Veronica, and he must follow her wherever
she wanted just as he was chained to the girl.
 Yours, I am aware, is Rawson, but I would like to know how you are called--Mary,
perhaps? That is English."

"No, my name is not Mary," she answered, and froze a little--but the Russian's eyes continued
to gaze at her with the same mild frankness which disarmed any resentment. She felt they were
as calm as deep pools of blue water--they filled her with a sense of confidence and security--which
she could not account for in any way.

Her color deepened--something in his peaceful expectancy seemed to compel her to answer his
late question.

"My Christian name is Stella," she said, rather quickly, then added nervously: "I am engaged
to Mr. Eustace Medlicott, an English clergyman--we are going to be married in September next."

"And this is May," was all Count Roumovski replied; then, for the first time since he had addressed
her, he turned his eyes from her face, while the faintest smile played round his well-cut mouth.

"A number of things can happen in four months. Are you looking forward to your life as the
wife of a priest--but I understand it is different in England to in my country--there I could
not recommend the situation to you."

Stella found absolutely no answer to this. She only felt a sudden, wild longing to cry out
that the idea of being a curate's wife-- even the Bishop's junior young gentleman with eight
hundred a year of his own--had never appeared a thrilling picture, and was now causing her
a feeling of loathing. She thought she ought to talk no longer to this stranger, and half rose
from her seat.

He put out a protesting hand, both had been clasped idly over the Times until then without
a movement.

"No--do--not go--I have disturbed you--I am sorry," he pleaded. "Listen, there is a great reception
at your Embassy to-morrow night--for one of our Royal Family who is here. You will go, perhaps.
If so, I will do so also, although I dislike parties--and there I will be presented to you
with ceremony--it will appease that English convention in you, and after that I shall say to
you a number of things--but I prefer to sit here and speak behind the Times."

At this instant he raised the paper, and appeared again the stranger almost entirely hidden
from view. And Stella saw that her Uncle Erasmus was rapidly approaching her with an envelope
in his hand. She seized her pen again and continued her broken sentence to Eustace--her betrothed.
Canon Ebley viewed the Times and its holder with suspicion for an instant, but its stillness
reassured him, and he addressed his niece.

"Very civil of the Embassy to send us a card for the reception to- morrow night, Stella; I
am glad we wrote names when we arrived. Your Aunt Caroline bids you accept, as her spectacles
are upstairs."

Miss Rawson did as she was bid, and her uncle waited, fidgeting with his feet. He wished the
stranger to put down the Times, which he wanted himself--or, at all events, remove his long
legs and hidden body from such a near proximity to his niece; they could not say a word that
he could not overhear, Canon Ebley mused.

However, the unknown remained where he was, and turned a page of the paper with great deliberation.

"Your aunt will be ready to go out again now," the Uncle Erasmus announced, as Stella placed
her acceptance in the envelope. "You had better go up and put your hat on, my dear."

The Times rustled slightly--and Stella replied a little hurriedly: "I was just finishing a
letter, uncle, then I will come."

"Very well," said Canon Ebley, not altogether pleased, as he walked away with the note.

The newspaper was lowered a few inches again, and the wise blue eyes beneath the saintly parted
hair twinkled with irresistible laughter, and the deep voice said:

"He would greatly disapprove of our having conversed--the uncle-- is it not so? How long are
you going to stay in Rome?"

Stella smiled, too--she could not help it.

"A week--ten days, perhaps," she answered, and then rapidly addressed an envelope to the Rev.
Eustace Medlicott.

"Perhaps, in that case, I can afford to wait until to-morrow night; unless it amuses you, as
it does me, to circumvent people," Count Roumovski said. "We are all masters of our own lives,
you know, once we have ceased to be children--it is only convention which persuades us to submit
to others' authority."

Stella looked up startled. Was this indeed true? And was it simply convention which had forced
her into an engagement with Eustace Medlicott, and now forced her to go up and put on her hat
and accompany her uncle and aunt to see the Lateran, when she would have preferred to remain
where she was and discuss abstract matters with this remarkable stranger.

"The notion surprises you, one sees," Count Roumovski went on, "but it is true--"

"I suppose it is," said Stella lamely.

"I submit to no authority--I mean, as to the controlling of my actions and wishes. We must
all submit to the laws of our country, to do so is the only way to obtain complete personal
freedom."

"That sounds like a paradox," said Stella. The old man banged his fist on the table and shouted: Still
there, you scum! And the monkeys climbed whining to the high poster bed, and the guinea pigs
were run under the stove and the raven flew to the round mirror, only the black cat, as he walked
to the abuse, nothing remained calm on the big upholstered chair Sitting on which he jumped right out
of the entrance. -

And it was still encouraged to Veronica, she was not as scary as outside in the corridor, and
even the woman she no longer seemed so terrible. Only now she looked in Walk around the room.
- All sorts of ugly stuffed animals hanging from the ceiling, unknown strange devices was confused
on the floor, and burned in the fireplace, a blue economical Fire, which only now and then emporknisterte
in yellow sparks, but then it roared from above down, and disgusting as bats with distorted
faces, smiling people waving back and forth, and occasionally licking up the flame on the sooty
wall, and then rang cutting, howling misery sounds that Veronica was seized by fear and horror.
"With Sir, Mamsellchen, "said the old man seized with a smile, a big fan and sprinkled, after
they had bathed in a copper boiler, the chimney. Since the fire was extinguished, and how filled
with thick smoke, it was pitch dark in the room, but soon came the old woman into a little
room left, again with a lit light in, and saw Veronika no more of the animals from the equipment,
it was fitted out an ordinary poor Room. The old woman approached and said in a raspy voice, "I
know what you are in I want my daughter: what it is, do you want to know if you marry the Anselmus
will, if he Councilor been "- Veronica froze with amazement and horror, but the old continued,
"You told me so at home when all is said Papa as the coffee pot stood in front of you, I was
the coffee pot, you've known me for? Daughter, hear! Cease, let starting from, the Anselmus, which
is a nasty man who has entered my little son's face, my dear little son, the apples with the
red cheeks, which, when they bought the people have them roll back again from the pockets in my basket.
He's holding with the ancients, which he told me yesterday cast the damn orpiment in the face,
that I nearly over blind, you can still see the burn marks, little daughter! Let up to him,
give him up! - He loves you not: for he loves the gold-green snake, he will never Councilor
because he has had in the salamanders do, and he wants to marry the green snake, let off by
him, give him up "- Veronica, who actually had a firm and steadfast mind girlish fright knew
soon overcome, stepped back and said with a serious captive tone: "Old! I have done by your
administration to look into the future belongs and was about might be curious and rash of you
know, whether there Anselm, whom I love and high esteem, would ever be mine. Do you want me therefore
to attend to instead of my desire tease with your great senseless chatter, so does your wrong,
because I wanted only what do others, as I know, gewährtet. Since you, as it seems, know my
most intimate thoughts, it would be you might have been easy to reveal to me some things that
now torments me and upset, but after Euern silly slander the good Anselmus I like more of you
learn nothing. Good night, "- which would hasten Veronica, as was the old woman weeping and wailing
on his knees and cried the girl by the clothes, holding on, "Veronikchen, because you know Lise
no longer the old, the worn out, as often the poor and cared for and pampered? " Veronica could
not believe their eyes, for they recognized her, though only by old age and especially by the burns
disfigured former nurse, from several years ago vice-principal of Paul Mann's house disappeared.
The old saw is now very different from what they had instead of the ugly speckled cloth, a decent
cover, and instead of black rags a large-flowered jacket, as they normally have been well dressed.
She got up from the ground and drove Veronica in her arms, continued: there may you all that
I told you, probably right great cause, as it is the suffer so. The Anselm has done me much
harm, but resist his will, he is the Archivarius Lindhorst had fallen into the hands, and wants
him to his daughter married. Archivarius is my greatest enemy, and I could tell you all sorts
of Things said about him that you would not understand, however, or you yet very astonished.
 She
was so excited and frightened that she could almost have turned back when she reached the street,
but there, standing by the trees, was a large blue motor car, and as she advanced the chauffeur
stepped forward and opened the door, and she got in--and before she had time to realize what
she had done, Count Roumovski had joined her and sat down by her side.

"You have no wrap," he said. "I thought you would not have, so I had prepared this," and he
indicated a man's gray Russian, unremarkable-looking cloak, which, however, proved to be lined
with fine sable, "and here, also, is a veil. If you will please me by putting them on, we can
then have the auto open and no one will recognize you--even should we meet your uncle and aunt;
that is fun, is it not?"

Stella had thrown every consideration to the winds, except the determination to enjoy herself.
Years of rebellion at the boredom of her existence seemed to be urging her on. So she meekly
slipped into the cloak, and wrapped the veil right over her hat, and they started. Her heart
was thumping so with excitement she could not have spoken for a moment.

But as they went rapidly on through the crowded streets, her companion's respectful silence
reassured her. There seemed to be some rapport between them, she was conscious of a feeling
that he understood her thoughts, and was not misjudging her.

"You are like a little frightened bird," he said presently. "And there is nothing to cause
you the least fear. We shall soon come to the lovely gardens, and watch the lowering sun make
its beautiful effects in the trees, and we shall hear the nightingales throbbing out love songs--the
world is full of rest and peace-- when we have had enough passion and strife and want its change--
but you do not know anything of it, and this simple drive is causing you tumults and emotions--is
it not so?"

"Yes," said Stella, with a feeling that she had burnt all her ships.

"It is because you have never been allowed to be YOU, I suppose," he went on softly. "So doing
a natural and simple thing seems frightful--because it would seem so to the rigid aunt. Now,
I have been ME ever since I was born--I have done just what seemed best to me. Do you suppose
I am not aware that the way my hair is cut is a shock to most civilized persons; and that you
English would strongly disapprove of my watch and my many other things. But I like them myself--it
is no trouble for one of my valets to draw a straight line with a pair of scissors--and if
I must look at the time, I prefer to look at something beautiful. "Good night, good Night,
my dear friend, "whispered softly whispered Veronica, and a kiss on his lips. He wanted to
embrace her in his arms, but the dream figure was gone and he awoke gay and strengthened. Now he
had himself quite a good laugh at the effects of the punch; But as he thought of Veronica, he felt
quite penetrated by a comfortable feeling.

Her alone, he said to himself, I owe it that I think of silly Grilling came back. Truly, I was
not better than the one who thought he was eaten by the glass, or the one who did not leave
the room, for fear of the chickens to be, because he imagined to be a barley grain. But, as I
become Councilor, I readily marry Mademoiselle husband Paul and I'm happy. - When he noon went
through the garden of Archivarius Lindhorst, he could not wonder enough how it all else was
so strange and wonderful can happen. He saw nothing but ordinary Potted plants, all sorts of geraniums,
Myrtenstöcke and the like. Instead of the shiny colorful Birds fluttered teased him otherwise,
only a few sparrows and forth that an incomprehensible unpleasant clamor raised as they were aware
of the Anselmus. The blue room he came also quite different before and he did not understand
how it the bright blue and the natural golden Trunks of palm trees with misshapen leaves flashing
for a moment had fallen can. - Archivarius looked at him with a very peculiar ironic smile and said:
"Well, how did you last tasted the punch, my dear Anselmus" - "Oh sure you have the parrot,
"- said the student Anselmus quite ashamed, but he hesitated, for he thought Now again that
even the appearance of the parrot probably only illusion of self-conscious sense been. "Oh, I
was even in society," interrupted Archivarius Lindhorst, "have They tell me they not seen? But
with the great mischief that your triebt, I almost damaged hard, because I was sitting at the moment
still in the tureen, when the registrar Army fire took it to hurl them against the ceiling
and had to fast in the Conrector bowl retirieren. Now Good-bye, Mr. Anselm! - Be diligent, even for missed
yesterday's day, I'll pay the speciedaler because you previously worked so bravely. " - "How
can the Archivarius drivel just such great stuff," said the student Anselm himself even, and
sat down at the table to begin the copy of the manuscript, which the Archivarius as usual, spread
out before him. But he looked at the parchment so many strange krause trains and twirls through
each other, give to the eye without a single point of rest, the look confused that he seemed almost
impossible that all nachzumalen exactly. Yes for the overview of the whole, seemed only a parchment
colored veined marble with moss or a by speckled stone. - He wanted his attempt notwithstanding
the possible and dunked safely the spring has, but the ink did not flow well, he splashed the
spring impatient , and - heavens! a big blob fell on the original spread. Hissing and roaring drove
a blue flash from the spot and wound its way across the room crashing to the Cover up. Since a thick
steam pouring from the walls, the leaves began to rustle like shaken by the storm and out of
them flashing in the flickering fire basilisk shot down igniting the vapor that the flames crackling
around the watercourse Anselmus. The golden Trunks of palm trees and giant snakes, their hideous
heads in sharp Sound of metal collided and conversion with the scaly bodies Anselmus.


"I am sure it is getting very late," said Stella Rawson, and with difficulty she turned her
eyes away and looked over the green world.

Count Roumovski laughed softly, as if to himself. And they were silent until they came to the
entrance gates again, when the chauffeur stopped and shut the car.

"We have at least snatched some moments of pleasure, have we not?" the owner whispered, "and
we have hurt no one. Will you trust me again when I propose something which sounds to you wild?"

"Perhaps I will," Stella murmured rather low.

"When I was hunting lions in Africa I learned to keep my intelligence awake," he said calmly,
"it is an advantage to me now in civilization--nothing is impossible if one only keeps cool.
If one becomes agitated one instantly connects oneself with all other currents of agitation,
and one can no longer act with prudence or sense."

"I think I have always been very foolish," admitted Stella, looking down. "I seem to see everything
differently now."

"What we are all striving after is happiness," Count Roumovski said. 

Punishment, because of past injustices imposed on the doer evil or suffering. In the concept of
this page in the broadest sense is to be most pages, which a discharge the education authority
and supervision of a certain law, especially as the teacher the Students, the employer of the
household, the Lord's teaching against the apprentice is entitled. Furthermore, here is the
actual penalty, which by virtue of the superior administrative authority their disciplinary authority
(qv) In the official to pronounce on Administrative Offences is competent, as are the administrative
fine, which threaten a public authority and enforcement can set to force the compliance of official
orders, such as subpoenas to Dates, etc. Also, the penalty, ie, the contractually fixed for
the S. Case of failure to perform any obligation assumed falls under the definition of S. in
this community. In the narrower sense but is meant only to S. absorbed. Legal punishment ie
that of S., which was directly attributed to a law and against the transgressor of the latter is
to pronounce. Here, then again between private punishment and distinguished public pages, depending
on the S. to the injured or to the State to serve, and indeed the private sanctions in the present
are kept to a minimum. The public punishment but are in turn divided into police fines and
criminal penalties, whichever it is only the violation of a rule or polizeiltchen to the contravention
acting against a real criminal law. According to the criminal agents is between the death penalty,
free-

358

Penal - criminal justice.

health and wealth penalties distinguished.

The formerly used qualified death penalty are just like the mutilating
and corporal punishment in existing corporal punishment, at least
in all civilized countries abolished.

Honorary penalties come after the abolition certain abusive forms of punishment, such as the
pillory punishment, just as other penalties, that is, as the consequences elsewhere, primarily with
recognized sentences. The penalty system of the German Imperial Criminal Code (§ 13 et seq)
in particular is this. A. Major Penalties: 1) The means of executing death penalty decapitation
(sd). 2) sentences: a) imprisonment, either for life or term, the minimum amount of one and
maximum of 15 Years.


He had not looked up as they passed. Nor did he appear once to glance in their direction. His
whole manner was full of the same reflective calm as the night before. And, for some unaccountable
reason, Stella Rawson's heart sank down lower and lower, until at the end of the repast she
looked pale and tired out.

Eustace, her betrothed, would be there on the morrow, and such things as drives in motor cars
with strange Russian counts were only dreams and not realities, she now felt.

CHAPTER III

Next morning it fell about that Stella Rawson was allowed to go into the Musso Nazionale in
the Diocletian baths, accompanied only by Martha, her uncle and aunt having decided they would
take a rest and write their English letters. The museum was so near, a mere hundred yards,
there could be no impropriety in their niece's going there with Martha, even in an exhibition
year in Rome.

Stella was still suffering from a nameless sense of depression. Eustace's train would get in
at about five o'clock, and he would accompany them to the Embassy. A cousin of her own and
Aunt Caroline's was one of the secretaries, and had already been written to about the invitation.
So that even if Count Roumovski should be presented to her, and make the whole thing proper
and correct, she would have no chance of any conversation. The brilliant sunlight felt incongruous
and hurt her, and she was glad to enter the shady ancient baths. She had glanced furtively
to right and left in the hotel as she came through the hall, but saw no one who resembled the
Russian, and they had walked so quickly through the vestibule she had not remarked a tall figure
coming from the staircase, nor had seen him give some rapid order to a respectful servant who
was waiting about, and who instantly followed them: but if she had looked up as she paid for
the two tickets at the barrier of the museum, she would have seen this same lean man turn swiftly
round and retreat in the direction of the hotel.

Martha was sulky and comatose on this very warm morning; she took no interest in sculpture.
"Them naked creatures," she called any masterpiece undraped--and she resented being dragged
out by Miss Stella, who always had fancies for art.

They walked round the cloisters first, a voyage of discovery to Miss Rawson, who looked a slim
enough nymph herself in her lilac cambric frock and demure gray hat shading her big brown eyes.

Then suddenly, from across the garden in the center, she became aware that an archaic Apollo
clad in modern dress had entered upon the scene, and the blood rushed to her cheeks, and her
heart beat.

Martha puffed with the heat and exercise, and glanced with longing eyes at a comfortable stone
bench in the shade.

"Would you like to rest here, Martha, you old dear?" Miss Rawson said. "There is not a creature
about, and I will walk round and join you from the other side." 

Stoll bumps (elbow bumps), tumors in horses on the posterior side and on the top the elbow, caused
as a result of bruising of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. This bruising inflammation is in some cases
by the pressure of the blocks in the horseshoe of lying during the Horses induced with crossed
legs (hence the name), is also in jobless Hufeifen and unshod horses before. The inflammation usually
spreads to the neighboring From connective tissue and the cavities are first filled with blood from
proliferation and compaction connective tissue mostly filled again, and the tumor is therefore firm
and tough (Stoll sponge). The first time is formed in the tumor often suppuration. The treatment
requires termination of the cause of continued bruising; at recent inflammation are cooling
agents, or draining the fluid, rubbing in green soap and injections of iodine appears. Obsolete,
bacon-like sponges Stoll can only be removed by etching or by operative way. Particularly useful
is the setting of the pages, because with it the healing without leaving a scar deformity is achieved.
By the way interfere p. official use of the little horses, however, impair often a good look.
The old assumption that S. occur most frequently in horses with lung, is unfounded.

Stolle, Ludwig Ferdinand, Belle Trist, born 28th Sept. 1806 Dresden, studied in Leipzig the rights
and political science, devoted then to Grimsby and in 1855 in Dresden
Literature and 29 died in the latter city Sept. 1872nd The release
of the humorous-political People's Journal "The Village Barber (1844-63)
further known in circles, he was fine many historical and humorous
novels, of which we only "1813"

(Leipzig, 1838, 3 vols), "Elba and Waterloo" (ibid., 1838, 3 vols), "German Pickwick Papers"
(ibid., 1841, 3 vols; 3. Ed 1878), "Napoleon in Egypt" (ibid., 1843, 3 vols) and The Heritage
in Kabul "(this 1845 cite) by name, as with his stories and novels ("Spring Bells", "Moss Rose" etc.), many
readers. They were under the title "of the village barber selected writings" (2nd edition, Leipz
1859-64, 30 vols;. New episode, Plauen, 1865, 12 volumes) were collected. Except for "poems"
(Grimma 1847) he was also the lyric collection "palms of peace" (Leipzig, 1855, 5th ed Out
in 1873) and most recently wrote the idyll of "Spring in the Country" (ibid. 1867).

Stollen, a possible horizontal, from the day of outgoing, branched into circumstances of underground
Mining operations, which serve different purposes, in the poetry part of the verse of the old Love
songs (see Situated song and swan song).

Stollen crispness, from the mouth of the hole of a tunnel led from the nearest water trench.

Cleats cabinet, a post on the (tunnel) dormant cabinet Doppelthüren,
Middle Ages and especially during the Renaissance manufactured in
the Rhineland.

The posts were mostly by a rear wall and bottom connected by a cross-board.

S. Plate "furniture", FIG 10th

347

Stollhofen - pride.

Stollhofen, village in the bathroom. Circuit city close to the Rhine, has (1885) 1139 inhabitants,
the former center Stollhofer the lines, now completely disappeared, in the War of Spanish Succession
Margrave Louis of Baden until his death (1707) claims subsequently
taken by the French were.

Stolnik (Russian), title of court officials in the Muscovite grand prince and Tsardom; Steward.

Stolons
(Latin), in botany svw runners (sd).

Stolp, a district town in the Prussian. Region of Koszalin, in the Stolpe, intersection of lines
Stargard i. P. Sopot and Neustettin-Ustka the Prussian State Railways, 35 m above sea level.
M., has 3 Protestant churches (including St. Mary's church with a high tower and the castle was
built in the 13th century church), Old Lutheran and one Catholic. Church, a synagogue, an old
castle and (1885), as Garrison (3 squadrons of Hussars No. 5) 22.442 inhabitants (including 542
Catholics and 867 Jews); which iron foundry and mechanical engineering, tobacco, cigar, amber
and leather goods manufacturing, Wool spinning, steam joinery, brick factory, salmon fishing,
etc. operate, nor has p. 2 large meal and 5 sawmills. The trade, supported by a Reichsbank
extension is vivid in crops, livestock, alcohol, wood, fish and geese. S. is the seat of a
district court, two forestry office, a furniture fire insurance company
and has a high school, connected with real grammar school, a girl
pen, a disability home, a hospital, a Military hospital and 2 Hofpitäler.

S. District Court for the district, the seven district courts to Buetow,
Lauenburg, Pollnow, Rügenwalde, Rummelsburg, Schlawe and S.

Coat
of arms of stumbling blocks.

Stolpe, Küstenfluß in Pomerania, arises from the trip in the Lake
Region of Gdansk, refers to the Buetow, Kamenz and Schottow is flößbar
and ends after a course of 150 km at Ustka in the Baltic Sea.

Stolpen city in Saxony's main circuit team Dresden, Pirna Office captaincy, at the Wesenitz and
the line-Neustadt Dürrröhrsdorf the Saxon State Railways, on steep
basalt mountain, has a district court, a three-towered old castle
in which the Countess Cosel (sd) 1716-65 was caught, knives and manufacturing
(1885) 1367 inh

Ustka, spots in the Prussian.

Koszalin Region, district of Stolp, at the mouth of the Stolpe in the Baltic Sea and to line
Neustettin-S. the Prussian State Railways, has a Protestant church, a navigation preschool, a seaside
resort, 2 steam cutting mills, shipping, timber and spirits trade and (1885) 1974 almost exclusively
Protestant inhabitants. See Zessin, P. The Baltic Sea (Stolp 1885).

Stolze, Friedrich, Frankfurt dialect poet, born on 21 Nov. 1816 at Frankfort, was from his father
intended for mercantile class, but left that after his father's death to turn to the fine arts,
and was after several trips as a writer settled in his native city where he from 1852 to the dialect written
in "Frankfurter Krebbelzeitung" next to it since 1860 with the painter Schalk the Frankfurter
Lantern published, both in 1866 were suppressed during the occupation of Frankfurt by the Prussians.
S. since lived in Stuttgart, then in Switzerland, but returned after the amnesty back to Frankfurt,
where he was the editor the Frankfurter Lantern "and again took over. He published "Sketches from
the Palatinate (Frankf. 1849), "Poems in High German dialect" (ibid. 1862), "Poems in Frankfurt
dialect" (this 1865, 6 Foreign 1883; second Bd, 1884), "novels and stories in Frankfurt dialect"
(this 1880-85, 2 vols), etc.

Pride comes with the vanity (sd) agreed
that he, like them, as the effect of Honor Riebe submit to the personal
property value benefits, but differs from that by that the same not
just quite insignificant or even a supposedly owned (real or perceived
physical beauty, etc.) of goods, but are actually true and obsessive,
even morally valuable goods (of character, scientific or artistic
Performance and the like may be).

The same goes so far that he say to himself, rather sacrifice external benefits, it is noble p. he
overestimated his value, or can be by the feeling of the same trick for contempt of others,
so he goes to pride (as the vanity in the same case in pride) about.

Stolz, Alban, known catholic theologian, born 8 Feb. 1808 in Bühl in Baden, was in 1833 and was ordained
in 1843 at the theological seminary where he repeatant to Freiburg i. Br, was the widely read
"calendar for time and eternity" out. Since 1848, he was Professor of pastoral theology and education
at the theological faculty. More, however, he worked through a myriad of ascetic and ecclesiastical
writings, as for ever as the original and most fruitful of all the
popular representative of the German ultramontanism apply allowed.

He died 16th Okt. 1883rd From larger works are to lead, "Spanish for the educated World "(8th
edition, Freiburg, 1885)," Visit to Shem, Ham and Japheth "(5th edition, this 1876), both Travel
fruit. Most of his numerous writings (collected, Freiburg 1871-87, 15 vols) have been translated into
foreign languages. See Haegele, S. Alban (3rd edition, Freiburg, 1889).

Stolze, Heinrich August Wilhelm, founder of the eponymous shorthand system born 20 May 1798 in
Berlin, visited the school Joachimsthal there in order to Prepare studies of theology, but had
limited financial circumstances due 1817 Büreau a position in the Berlin fire insurance company
to accept. As early as 1815 when Entry into the Prima was led S. to the idea to ease the work
load become familiar with the shorthand known, and the great extent
of his new profession works 1818 drew him again, and earnestly to
the shorthand.

He learned Mosengeilsche 1820 System, it was fine but not according to expectations. From then
on, he even tried new Pursue ways and made the object of his peculiar shorthand for employment,
as he worked through all of it accessible to older and modern systems of shorthand. The According
to the study of the physiology and the then young linguistics showed him, which cut benefits
a shorthand from compliance with the nature of the sounds and the connection to the etymology
could draw. By the appearance of Gabelsberger speech drawing and W. von Humboldt's work on

348

Proud - Stölzel.

Diversity of human language-structure was S. from the idea of ​​symbolic vocal designation out.
He gave his place in the 1835 fire insurance company to devote himself full the planning of a
shorthand, which closed in 1840 and 1841 with the support the Prussian
Ministry of Culture in the "Theoretical and practical textbook of
German shorthand"

(Berl.) was published.

Other publications of S., "Detailed Course in German shorthand "(Berl.

1852, 9th edition, 1886)," Guide to German shorthand " (Ibid. 1845, 52 ed 1889); "stenographic Reader"
(ibid., 1852, 2nd edition 1861), "Normal transmission of tasks, etc. "(ibid. 1865). Since 1852
was head of the stenographic S. Büreaus of House of Assembly in Berlin and died there on 8th
Jan. 1867th See Michaelis, obituary at WAS (Berl. 1867); The same, speech to the passing of the S. bust
etc. (ibid. 1882); Kreßler, W. Stolze (ibid. 1884); Kaeding, Monuments pride (ibid. 1889).
The goal, which in the eye p. had not been the creation of a tool for Redennachschreiben, but
the higher the Preparation of a general relief product for each extended Schreibthätigkeit. Completeness
and accuracy of the volume name were to him as much as Basic Terms how soon. Only later, after
the ash shorthand pride in the Prussian Chambers Input as a means of writing out the words
found attached, S. for this purpose further Provisions would be added, but they were not comprehensive
and is a hindrance in achieving the final goal proved. Systemic reforms of 1868 and 1872 were
therefore again pride original goal back, another of 1888 created once substantial simplifications.
In this latest form of the system is about four times less than the writing and requires about
10 hours. His character was formed by S. Berger fork process part of the ordinary trains, and
distributing the same to determine definite Principles of the alphabet. Most vowels he symbolically
by the position Word image to the baseline, with short or long dash, as well as by pressure
or non-pressure in the accompanying consonants. In this idea carried out, the otherwise meaningless
to use a hyphen as the support of vocal symbolism, is next to the collection of shorthand to higher
provision pride main service to the education of shorthand. Finally be some frequently occurring
words and syllables by fixed, formed from parts of the whole Abbreviations (sigla) refers. The
pride ash system has identified a number of foreign languages been transferred, namely the Dutch,
Swedish, English, Latin, Italian, French, Portuguese, Spanish, Russian, Serbian, Magyar. A significant
welfare state enjoys the pride ash stenography not, it owes its spread Privatthätigkeit almost
alone of their followers. In some schools of Prussia and the Switzerland it is optional, mandatory
taught in several Prussian military schools; the official committee to examine the Stenographielehrer
in Budapest reviewed both candidates which the pride of ash, as such, the present system Gabelsbergersche
want. In German, Swedish and Hungarian Parliament, in Prussia, Anhalt and Württemberg Diet, in several
Prussian county and the Great Council of Berne is the pride Ash Shorthand as their transmissions,
sometimes alone, sometimes in addition to other systems, official Recording of the speeches.
The largest distribution as traffic Scripture is the pride Ash System passes in Switzerland; it also has
its origin in Prussia and throughout North and Central Germany Saxony except the excess weight,
while in Austria and southern Germany not next to the state-maintained fork Berger's speech
marks to be seen as art. Of the Pride ash teaching aids have been sold more than 1 / 4 million
copies. Due to the aforementioned System revisions of 1868, 1872 and 1888, which opposed some
of the school Created, a split in the small, again divided among themselves altstolzesche and numerically
significant vast neustolzesche direction. Both directions are present together 450 clubs (The oldest
and first of the European continent to the Berlin since 1844) with 10.500 Members and be represented
by 20 trade magazines, their oldest, the "Archive Shorthand, "since 1849 appears. After regions and
provinces are those clubs in associations summarized. Each of the two directions pride ash has
a peculiar organization, in the top of the board of the Association is Neustolzeaner pride Escher
stenographers Clubs (Office Berlin), while the combined entities altstolzeschen in the board of
the associations (Berlin Office) have a leading position. From the ashes pride system are several derived
Systems emerged, such as by Erkmann (1876), Velten (1876), Lentz (1881). See "System Certificate
German shorthand by WAS "(Berl. 1888), Proud, Guide to German shorthand (52nd edition, this 1889),
The same, Detailed Course in German shorthand (9th edition, this 1886);. Free, Course of German
shorthand (9 Aust, Wetzikon 1889); Kaeding, The Teachers in the pride of ash shorthand (2nd edition,
Berl 1885th); Knoevenagel and Ryssel (Altstolzeaner) Complete practical handbook of German shorthand
(7th ed, Hanover 1886th); Simmerlein, The reduction in resources in the stenographic practice (4th
ed, Berl 1887th) Knoevenagel, speech, character art or German shorthand? (. 3rd ed, Hannover
1880); F. Stolze, and S. Berger fork? (Berl. 1864); Häpe, stenography as a subject (Dresd. 1863);
Kaselitz, Critical Findings of the German shorthand systems of S. Fork Berger and Arends (Berl.
1875), Miller, The shorthand of S. and septic man (Vienna 1886); Steinbrink, The genesis of the
Pride ash system (in the "Archive for shorthand" 1885), Mueller, the organization attempts the pride
of ash School (Berl. 1883), Krumbein, WAS, and the course of development of his school (Dresd. 1876);
Mitzschke, Museum of pride ash shorthand (2nd edition, Berl 1877th); alga History of stenography in Switzerland
(Gossau 1877), "the pride Serapeum ash shorthand" (Berl., 1874, Supplement 1876).

Stölzel, 1) Karl, Technolog, born 17 Feb. 1826 in Gotha, studied in Jena and Heidelberg State
Administration, then science and particularly chemistry in Berlin and Liebig Line in casting. He qualified
as a lecturer in 1849 in Heidelberg, was subsequently Teacher at the vocational schools to Kaiserslautern
and Nuremberg

349

Stolzenau - gland.

in 1868 as professor of chemical engineering and metallurgy at the Technical University called
to Munich. S. was also in the international exhibitions to London 1851, Paris 1867 and Vienna
1873 officially engaged and involved in the coverage of the last two. His Major work is the "Metallurgy"
(Braunschw. 1863-86, 2 vols).

2) Adolf, lawyer, brother of the preceding, born 28th June 1831 at Gotha, studied in Marburg and
Heidelberg, 1860-66 was judge at the Kassel City Court and Court
of Appeal was then in the Prussian civil service and the Councillor
in 1872, 1873 Ministerial appointed in Berlin, where it significantly
since 1875 as a member of the supreme judicial authority audit acts,
which he is president since 1886.

Among his numerous jurisprudential Highlight the work is in association
with others anonymously published "Handbook of the Hessian Civil and
Zivllprozeßrechts "(Kassel 1860-61, 2 vols)," The doctrine of operis
novi nunciatio quod vi aut interdictum and the clam "(Götting.

1863):" Kassel municipal accounts from the time 1468-1553 "(Kassel
1871)," The development of the learned judgeship in German Territories
"(Stuttgart 1872)," The right of paternal power "(Berl.

1874)," The marriage law within the scope of the Prussian Law of 9 March 1874 "(this in 1874 and
more)," Remarriage a continuously separated from bed and spouse "(ibid. 1876)," German marriage
law "More often (this and 1876)," according to official (as a guide for ascertaining the registrar
Karl Gottlieb Svarez "(ibid.

1885)," Brandenburg-Prussia's legal administration and legal constitution, represented in the work
of their sovereign and supreme judicial officer "(ibid. 1888, 2 vols). In 1872 his doctorate
honorary doctorate from the University of Marburg, p. 1887 to the ordinary Honorary Professor
of the University of Berlin appointed.

Stolzenau, stains, and circle the Prussian capital. Region Hannover at the Weser, has a Protestant church,
a castle, a district court, distillery, soap manufacturing, salmon fishing, Wool trade, shipping
and (1885) 1483 inh

Pride rock, mountain castle in the Prussian. The district and county Koblenz, on the left bank of the Rhine,
in the village band, in the Middle Ages often the residence of the archbishops of Trier and was laid in
1689 by the French in ruins. 1836-45 the castle was under Schinkel Plan in the medieval style in a great
manner and performed again on the inside with all sorts of art works including frescoes by Deger,
Lasinsky, Cordier etc. decorated.

Proud kick in horsemanship, s. piaffe.

Stolzit, s. Wolframbleierz.

Stoma (Greek), mouth, mouth.

Stomachika (Latin), digestive stimulants, s. Digestivmittel.

Stomachus (Latin), the stomach.

Stomakace (Greek), mouth sores, see oral diseases.

Stomatitis (Greek), stomatitis, s. mouth disease.

Stomatoscopes (Greek), Instrument for examination of the mouth, especially
the teeth, is based on a screening using the same isolated white-hot
wire, by a glass sheath surrounded, or by means of Drummond's limelight
and to the beginnings of diseases make visible; see lighting equipment.

Stone

(English, Stohn spr. "Stone"), market weight, see avoirdupois.

Stone (pronounced Stohn), town in Staffordshire (England), on the Trent, with breweries and (1881) 5669
Inh
 His complete unconsciousness
and calm were so remarkable. You might take him for an eccentric person, but certainly a gentleman,
and with an extraordinary magnetism, she felt. When once you had talked to him, he seemed to
cast a spell over you. But, beyond this, she only knew that she was growing more unhappy every
moment, and that by her side one man represented everything that was tied and bound in sentiment
and feeling and existence, and that across the hall another opened the windows of her reason
and imagination, and exhorted her to be free, and herself.

Presently she could bear it no more. She got up rather suddenly, and, saying she was very tired
and had letters to write, she left them and went toward the lift.

"Stella is not at all like herself," Mr. Medlicott said, when she had disappeared from view.
"I trust she is not sickening with Roman fever."

Meanwhile, Miss Rawson had reached her room and pulled her writing case in front of her. There
were one or two girl friends who ought to be written to, but the sheets remained blank--and
in about ten minutes there was a gentle knock at the door, and, on opening it, she saw Count
Roumovski's discreet-looking servant, who handed her a note respectfully, and then went on
his way without a word.

How agreeable it must be to have well-trained servants to do one's bidding like that! she thought,
and then went back eagerly to her window to read the missive. It had no beginning or date,
and was just a few lines.

I have observed the whole situation, and judged of the character of your fiance. I know how
you feel. Do not be depressed--remain calm and trust me, circumstances can always be directed
in the hands of a strong man. I will have the honor to be presented to you and to your family
soon after you arrive at the Embassy to- night. All is well.

There was no signature, and the writing was rather large and unlike any she had seen before.

Suddenly her feeling of unrest left her, and a lightness of heart took its place. She was living,
at all events, and the horizon was not all gray. It seemed almost delightful to be putting
on a real evening dress presently, even though it was a rather homely white thing with a pink
sash, and to be going down to the restaurant in it with Aunt Caroline in front in her best
black velvet and point lace.

That lady's desire to be in time at the party alone determined her to this breach of the rules--and
there were Eustace and Uncle Erasmus in their stiff clerical evening coats awaiting them in
the corridor--while, as luck would have it, the lift stopped at the second floor to admit the
Russian. He got in with his usual air of being unaware that he was not alone--though Stella
could feel that he was touching her hand--perhaps unconsciously. He seemed to radiate some
kind of joy for her always, and the pink grew to that of a June rose in her cheeks, and her
brown eyes shone like two stars.

"That was the man you spoke of in the hall, Mrs. Ebley, was it not?" Eustace Medlicott's intoning
voice said, as they went along to the restaurant. "He certainly is a most remarkable person
to look at close--but I do not dislike his face, it has noble lines."

"Really, how condescending of you!" Stella almost said aloud. But the Aunt Caroline answered
serenely:

"Perhaps I am prejudiced, Eustace, but want of convention always shocks me to such a degree
that I cannot appreciate anything else."

Stella almost enjoyed her dinner, she was so excited with the prospect of some unknown coming
events, and she had the satisfaction of observing that once Count Roumovski actually turned
his head in their direction and met her eyes. His were full of a whimsical smile for the instant
he looked, and then he relapsed into his habitual indifference.

The crowd had begun to thicken when they got to the Embassy, and they waited among them for
the Royalties' arrival; Stella looking at everything with fresh, interested eyes. When this
ceremony was over people began to disperse about the large rooms, and Miss Rawson was conscious
that her strange secret acquaintance was in conversation with the Grand Duke and Duchess; she
had not seen him come in. The Aunt Caroline noticed this, too, and drew her attention to the fact.

"Look, Stella, that dreadful man is talking to Royalty!" she said. "I suppose he must be a
gentleman, after all--one never can tell with foreigners, as their titles mean nothing, and
half of them are assumed. Your Uncle Carford had a valet once who afterward was arrested for
posing as a Polish count."

"I should think anyone could see this man was a gentleman, Aunt Caroline," Stella answered,
"even without his talking to Royalties."

They were soon joined by the secretary cousin, who was charmed to welcome so pretty a relation
to Rome, and was profuse in his apologies for not having been able to do more than leave cards
upon them as yet.

"We should so like to know the names of the celebrities," Mrs. Ebley said, "especially can
you tell us about the very curious- looking person now conversing with her Imperial Highness;
he is at our hotel."

"That--Oh! that is by far the most interesting man here--it is the famous Count Roumovski.
He is a most celebrated traveler; he has been all over the world and Africa and Asia in unaccessible
places. He is a fabulously rich Russian--a real Muscovite from near Moscow, and he does everything
and anything he pleases; he gives enormous sums for the encouragement of science. He is immensely
intelligent--he lunched at the Embassy to-day."

"Really!" said the Aunt Caroline, somewhat impressed. "His appearance is greatly against him."

"Oh, do you think so?" said the cousin. "I think it adds to his attraction, it is such superlative
audacity. No Englishman would have the nerve to cut his hair like that."

"I should hope not," said Mrs. Ebley severely, and dropped the subject.

"To think of this charming rosebud of a girl going to marry Eustace Medlicott--insufferable,
conceited prig, I remember him at Oxford," the cousin was musing to himself. "Lord Carford
is an old stick-in-the-mud, or he would have prevented that. She is his own niece, and one
can see by her frock that the poor child never even goes to London."

At this moment they saw the Russian Count putting his heels together and bowing himself out
of the circle of his Royalties; and straight as a dart he came over to where their group was
standing, and whispered in the cousin's--Mr. Deanwood's ear--who then asked if he might present
Count Roumovski to the Aunt Caroline and the rest.

When this ceremony was over Mrs. Ebley found herself conversing with her whilom object of contempt,
and coming gradually under the influence of his wonderful charm, while Stella stood there trembling
with the wildest excitement she had yet known. The words of Eustace, her betrothed, talking
to her, carried no meaning to her brain, her whole intelligence was strung up to catch what
the others were saying. So I, in fact even once Afternoon over
coffee in such a brooding, the actual moment of physical and mental digestion, the location
of a lost document property occurred as if by inspiration, and only yesterday was dancing in
the same way a beautiful large Latin Fraktur around in front of my bright eyes open. Oh, most
honored registrar replied that the vice-principal Paul Man, you always have such a penchant
for the Poeticis had, and as one falls easily in the fantastic and novel-like. But the students
did well Anselmus that one maintained its position in the highly distressed, drunk or crazy
to be believed; and notwithstanding it has become quite dark, but he believed for the first time
to notice how Veronica was right beautiful dark blue eyes, without him, but that wonderful pair
of eyes, he looked into the elder-tree, came into his mind. In general the student was Anselmus
with a time now gone, the adventure under the elder tree entirely, and he felt is so light and
happy, even as he drove in the amusing arrogance so far that he was in the climb out from
the gondola of his protection Veronika speaker offered the helping hand, and readily, as she hung her
arm through his, she with so much skill and so much happiness at home stated that he slipped
only once, and since it just the only dirty Spot the whole way, was Veronica's white dress
splattered very little. The vice-principal Paul Mann escaped the happy change in the students
Anselmus not, he won it again sweet and asked him the tough words for which he can before falling
against him for forgiveness. Yes, he added, you have probably examples that occur often certain
phantasms to man and can frighten and torment him properly, but this is a physical disease, and
it help leeches, which are, salva venia, applied to the buttocks, as a famous already dead Scholar
proved. The student Anselm knew now, in fact, not even whether he was drunk, insane or been
sick, in any case, he seemed but the leeches quite useless, since the possible Phantasmata disappeared
altogether, and he always felt more cheerful, the more it He succeeded in all sorts of compliments
to the lovely Veronica try to. It was, as usual made to the frugal meal music, the student Anselm
had to sit down at the piano and Veronika could hear her clear bright voice. - Values ​​Mademoiselle,
"said the registrar Army fire, you have a voice like a crystal bell! - The "now probably not," it went!
the students out, he knew not how, and it all looked surprised and concerned at. - »Crystal
bells sound wonderful in elder trees! wonderful, "continued the student Anselmus half-muttering
quietly away. And he put her hand on his shoulder, Veronica and said: What talk They got there,
Mr. Anselm? Like the student was again wide awake and began to play. The vice-principal Paul
man scowled, but the registrar Heerbrand put a sheet of music on the desk and sang to the delight
of a bravura aria of Kapellmeister Graun. The student Anselmus akkompagnierte still many things,
and a fugal duet, which he presented to Veronica and the Vice-principal Paul man himself composed,
all set in the most cheerful mood. It was pretty belatedly registrar Heerbrand grabbed his hat
and stick, and it was the vice-principal Paul Mann mysterious to him and said, Oh, you did not, dear
registrar, the good Mr Anselm himself - now! of which we spoke earlier - with a thousand joys,
said the Registrar army fire, and began after she sat down in a circle, without further in the
following Art: "It is strange in places, an old strange man, they say, he was doing all sorts of secret
sciences, as it now does not really like is, I consider it more for a research-Antiquary, probably
also experimenting alongside for a chemist. I my no one other than our secret Archivarius Lindhorst.
He lives, as you know, lonely in his remote old house, and if he is not busy, the service, you can
find him in his library or in its chemical Laboratory, where he can into it but no one. He has many
rare books, except for a number of Arabic, Coptic, and even in strange characters that belong
to any known language, written manuscripts. This he wants it copied in a skilful manner, and
therefore requires a man who is out understands the pen to draw to with the greatest accuracy and
faithfulness all the characters on Although parchment with ink and transferred to. He leaves
in a separate room of his Building work under his supervision, paid in addition to the free
table at work every Day a species of dollars, and promises even a handsome gift when the transcripts
ended happily. The period of work is open daily from zwölf bis sechs clock. From three to four
Clock is rested and eaten. Since he already unsuccessfully with some young people trying has done,
have it copied those manuscripts, he has finally turned to me, assign him a skilled artist, so
I thought of you, dear Anselmus for I know that you both write very neatly, and with the spring
very delicate and pure stand. Would you, therefore, in this bad time and up to your term about
[any] Appointing the speciedaler earn every day and the gifts on top of that, you try tomorrow
at twelve clock to the Lord Archivarius, whose house will be known. But so watch out before any
ink stains, it falls on the copy, you have no mercy start from scratch, it falls to the original,
so is the Lord able Archivarius To Throw out the window, because it is an angry man "- The
student Anselm was full of intimate Joy at the request of the registrar army fire: not only
because, he wrote that clean and drew with the pen, so it was his real passion, with laborious
calligraphic amortized cost; he therefore thanked his patrons in the most authentic expressions
and promised the morning's lunch hour is not to be missed. The night saw the student Anselmus
nothing but bare speciedaler and heard their sweet sound. - If you like the blame the poor, cheated
of so many hopes by a capricious misfortune to keep every farthing to rate and many a pleasure,
the youthful zest for life called, had to renounce. Early in the morning He looked up his
pencils, his raven feathers, his Chinese ink, for better he thought the Lord Archivarius can not
invent materials. First of all surveyed and he arranged his calligraphic masterpieces and his
drawings in order Archivarius, to meet as proof of his ability what he required to exhibit. All
went happily from Amsterdam, a special lucky star seemed to prevail over him, his cravat was
sitting right next to the first Umknüpfen as it should, no seam burst, no mesh was torn in the
black silk Socks, the hat did not fall again into the dust when he was brushed clean. - Short! - Dot
clock was half past eleven, the student Anselm in his pike-gray coat and his schwarzatlasnen underclothes,
a role calligraphy and ink drawings in his pocket, already on the Castle Street shop in Conradi
and drank - one - two glasses of the best stomach liqueur; because here, he thought, as he opened
his annoch empty pocket, soon speciedaler Thine. In spite of the wide path up to the lonely
street where the old house Archivarius Lindhorst was the student Anselm was but twelve clock at the
front door. As he stood and looked at the great bronze door knocker, but as he now on the last
the air with a mighty clang durchbebenden beat the clock tower at the church cross the knocker
wanted to take, as a wry face in metallic blue glowing light looks disgusting game the grinning
smile. Oh! it was the Äpfelweib from the black gate. The sharp teeth folded together in the
slack mouth, and the clatter it snarled, "You fool - fool - Narre - wait, wait! why were running
out! Fool "- horror reeled the student Anselmus back, he wanted to take the door-post, but his
hand grasped the bell-rope and put it on as the bell rang louder and louder in shrill discords, and all
bleak house shouted and mocked the response: Soon your case to the crystal! - Students Anselmus
seized with a shudder that shook in convulsive chill through every limb. The bell-rope fell down
and became a white transparent snake, which encircled and pressed him tighter and tighter lacing
their threads together, that the crushed limbs brittle cracking crumbled and blood spurted
from the veins, penetrating into the transparent body the snake and coloring it red. - Kill me,
kill me! He wanted to scream in dire Anxiety, but his voice was only a muffled groan. - The snake raised
its head and put his long pointed tongue of glowing ore on the chest of Anselm as a rent cutting
pain suddenly the artery of life, and he went by the thoughts. - When he came to himself again,
he was on his poor little bed, stood before him but the vice-principal Paul man and said, What
are you doing for heaven's sake for great stuff dear Anselmus!

THIRD vigil.

News from the family of Archivarius Lindhorst. Veronica's blue eyes. The registrar Army fire.

The
spirit looked at the water as it moved and roared, and rushed in foaming billows is thundering into
the depths that their black opened their mouth, swallow it greedily. As the triumphant winner
of granite rock zack maybe their crowned heads lifted up, the Valley protectively until it took the
sun in its mother's womb and it fully with their Radiation as used with glowing arms and warmed.
As awakened thousand seeds, under the desolate sands dormant, from the deep sleep, and stretched
their green leaf and Culms up to face the mother, and like smiling children in a green cradle
rested in The flower buds and flowers until she awoke and wakened by the mother and adorned
with the lights, the mother of the dyed them to the joy in a thousand ways colorful. But in the
middle of the valley was a black hill, which heaved up and down like
the breast of People when burning desire to swell. - From the depths
of the mists rolled up, and clenching together in huge masses, they
sought the face of the hostile mother to conceal, but said the cause
of the storm that drove them to atomize, and pure than the Beam again
touched the black hills, as in excess of delight broke a wonderful
Tiger Lily out, the beautiful leaves as gracious lips opening, the
mother of sweet kisses to receive. - Now a glowing luminescence walked
in the valley! it was the youth Phosphorus; the saw the fire lily
and begged of hot, wistful love caught: be still my ever; You beautiful
boy! for I love you and must pass away, if you leave me.

Then said the youth Phosphorus: I will be yours, you pretty flower,
but then you will like a degenerate Child, father and mother leave,
you will know your playmates no more, you grow and want to be more
powerful than anything is happy now as your equal with you.

The longing which now your whole being heated benevolent, is cleaved in a hundred rays you torment
torture and, for the sense, the sense will bear, and the highest
bliss that ignited the spark that I throw at you is the hopeless pain
in the you go down to again strange emporzukeimen. - This is the spark
of thought! - Oh! lamented the lily, I can they not in the blaze,
as it burns in me now, be your?

Can I love you more than than now, and I can look out for, as now, if you destroy me? Then she kissed
the youth Phosphorus, and how the light shines through it blazed up in flames, from which a strange
thing erupted that quickly fleeing the valley swarmed in infinite space, not taking care of
the playmates of youth and to the beloved young man. Complained to the lost lover, because
it's only brought to the infinite love of the beautiful lily in the lonely valley, and the
granite rock their heads bowed before the misery of the sympathetic Youth. But one opened his
lap and it was a black winged dragon roaring fluttered out and said, my brothers, the metals
are asleep in there, but I'm always alert and awake and wants to help you. Themselves up and down
swinging finally caught the dragon the being sprung from the Lily, carried her to the hill
and encircled it with his wings; there it was again the lily, but the constant thought tore
her innermost feelings and love for the youth Phosphorus was a piercing grief, breathed before,
toxic fumes, the flowers that would otherwise been glad of her look withered and died. The youth
Phosphorus put on a brilliant defense, which played in thousands of colored rays, and fought with
the Dragon flapped his black wings on the tank that he sounded bright, and from the powerful
sound of the flowers lived again and fluttered like colorful birds of the Dragon, the forces
vanished and the defeated in the depths of the earth hid. The lily was free, the youth Phosphorus
clasped her ardent desire full of heavenly love, and in the highly jubilant Hymn their homage to the
flowers, birds, even the high granite rocks as the Queen of Valley. - Excuse me, that's oriental
bombast, Archivarius dear sir! said the Registrar army fire, and we asked for it, you should, as you
wont to do otherwise well, us some of your most remarkable life, for example from your travel
adventures and a bit Truthful telling. - Now what? replied the Archivarius Lindhorst, what I just told,
is the truest thing I can dish out to you, your people, and belongs to some Art even my life.
Because I come just come out of that valley, and the Lily, the last reigned as queen, my great-great-great-great-grandmother,
so I as well really 'm a prince. - All burst out laughing. - Yes laughs heartily, continued Archivarius
Lindhorst, you may well be what I of course only in very poor Trains told that occur senseless
and mad, but it's the notwithstanding anything less perceived as inconsistent or even meant only
allegorically, but literally. But if I had know that you the beautiful love story, of which
I owe my birth have so little would please, I'd rather have some new informed me that my brother
during yesterday's visit had brought. - "Oh, how that? Have you got a brother, Mr. Archivarius? - Where
is he - where does he live? Also in royal service, or perhaps a privatization Scholar? "So they
asked from all sides. - "No," replied the Archivarius, very cold and allowed a pinch of taking,
"he has lain down on the bad side and is under the dragons went. "-" How popular you but to
say most singular Archivarius, "took the Registrar Heerbrand the word, "the Dragons" -? "Under the
Dragon" is echoed by all sides, like an echo after. - "Yes, the Dragons continued the Archivarius
Lindhorst away, actually, it was desperation. You know, my witches [Men] that my Father before all
died a short time, there are only a maximum of three hundred eighty-five years ago, so I also still
wearing mourning, had me, the favorite, bequeathed a magnificent onyx, the quite wanted to have
my brother. We quarreled with the corpse of his father about it on undue Manner until the blessed,
who lost the patience jumped, and threw down the evil brother of the stairs. The annoyed my brother,
and he was standing at the foot dragon. He now holds Cypress in a forest close to Tunis, where
he has a famous mystic carbuncle to guard, which recreates a hotshot of necromancer, who moved
into a summer lodging in Lapland, why he as only a quarter of an hour, just when the necromancer
in his garden beds Salamander agreement concerned, may, to tell me in speed, making it good in the
New Sources of the Nile is "-. For the second time the audience broke into a roar of laughter out, but
the student Anselm was very strange to mute, and he was able to Archivarius Lindhorst barely
see in the stiff, serious eyes, without an inside his own incomprehensible Way to shake. Especially
had the rough, but strangely metallic-like sounding voice of the Archivarius Lindhorst for him,
something mysterious, penetrating, that he felt tremble marrow. The real purpose, which is why
it took the fire with army registrar in the cafe had seemed not to be available today. After that
incident before the house of Archivarius Lindhorst was of the student Anselmus not previously been
able to, a visit to second time to dare, because according to his most intimate convictions
of him was only by chance, where not by death, but of the danger, free to be mad. The vice-principal
Paul man was just gone through the street when he was quite beside himself at the front door was,
and an old woman, have their cake and apple basket set aside for him was busy. The vice-principal
Paul Mann had immediately summoned a sedan-chair and transported him so home. like "You Think
of me what you want, "said the student Anselm," you may think me a fool or not - enough! -
On the door knocker my cursed face of the witch grinned from Goals against black, and what
happened afterwards, of which I would rather speak not, but would I awoke from my faint, and would
have cursed Äpfelweib seen before me (for no one otherwise it was the old woman worked for me), I
would not have lifted immediately, the shock, or I would have gone mad. "It's all persuasions, all reasonable
expectations of Conrector Paul Mann and the registrar Heerbrand fertilized nothing, and even
the blue-eyed Veronica was unable to tear him out of some profound state in which he lost.
He was now in effect for soul-sick, and thought of a means to distract him, whereupon Registrar
of army fire, said that nothing could be better served than to the employment at the Archivarius
Lindhorst, namely being the subsequent of the manuscripts. It was only a matter of Anselm
students in a good way to make known the Archivarius Lindhorst, and since the Registrar Heerbrand
knew that this almost every night some well-known cafe visited, he invited the students to Anselm,
every night so long his, the registrar Costs in that coffee house to drink a glass of beer and
smoke a pipe until he this or that kind Archivarius known to him about the business of copying manuscripts
become the consensus that the student took Anselmus grateful. "They deserve God's reward, worthy registrar,
if you bring in a young man to reason, "said the Vice-principal Paul Mann. - "God's reward
repeated Veronica, by the pious eyes to heaven rose and lively thought of as the student Anselmus
already a very good boy Husband was, even without raison! - When the Archivarius Lindhorst just laying
his hat and stick door was about to proceed, since seized the registrar army fire at the students quickly
Anselmus hand, and with it the way the Archivarius representative, he said, "most valued Mr.
secret Archivarius, here is the student Anselm, who, incredibly adept at drawing and calligraphy,
will copy your rare manuscripts. "-" That to me is very extraordinarily dear, "replied the Archivarius
Lindhorst rapidly, the triangular hat soldier raised his head and ran, the Registrar army fire and the
students Anselmus pushing aside, with much noise down the stairs, so that both stood there dumbfounded
and see Staring across the room door, which he close in front of them slammed shut, the hinges
that rattled. "That's a very strange old Man, "said the registrar army fire, -" Strange old
man, "stammered the student Anselmus after, feeling like he was shivering a river of ice through
my veins, that he almost to become rigid statue. But all the guests laughed and said: "The
day was Archivarius once again in his particular mood, tomorrow he is gentle and certainly
does not speak a word, but looks into the vortex of his pipe steam or read newspapers, one has
to do it not return. "-" That's true, "thought the student Anselm," will those who are in something
! Return Has not the Lord Archivarius said it was very dear to him immensely that I his would copy
manuscripts? - And why he also represented the registrar Heerbrand the way as he was about
to go home? - No, no, it's a sweet man, basically, Lord secret Archivarius Lindhorst, and surprisingly
liberal - just curious in bizarre Phrases. - But what hurts me the? - Tomorrow I go at twelve
clock, and set a hundred bronzed apples women against it. "

FOURTH vigil

Melancholy of students Anselmus. - The emerald mirror. - How Archivarius Lindhorst as collision vultures
flew away and the student Anselmus met anyone.

Well I may actually yourself, gracious reader, ask if you are not in your hours of life even days
and weeks had, in which all of you 'Your ordinary doings of a very distressing Caused discomfort,
and in which you, everything that you otherwise very important and valuable in meaning and
seemed to have thought, now seemed silly and not worthy. You knew it not themselves, what you
do and where you should inquire. A dark feeling that there must be somewhere and any time a high,
the cycle of all earthly pleasures fulfilled border request be the wage of the mind as not
to express a closely held timid child, got your chest, and something in this yearning for
the unknown that makes you wherever You went and stood, like a fragrant dream transparent with, before
sharper view dissolving figures hovered, you stopped for anything here surrounded you. You sneaked
with a sad look about like a desperate lover, and all you people on all sorts of As colorful crowd
drifting through each other saw, you caused no pain and no joy as you belonged not to this world.
If you, gracious reader, ever been so with courage, so you know even from my own experience
the condition in which the student was Anselm. In fact, I wish it was I have managed now, you,
gentle reader, the student Anselmus vividly bring to eyes.
 If you would do so, you would begin by asking yourself
what God gave certain human beings certain attributes for," he blew a few whiffs of smoke,
"whether to be wasted and crushed out by the intolerance of others,--or whether to be tended
and grow to the highest, as flowers grow with light and air and water."

"What has that got to do with the case?" asked Mr. Medlicott, tapping his foot uneasily.

"Everything," went on the Russian, mildly, "you, I believe, are a priest, and therefore should
be better able to expound your Deity's meaning than I, a layman--but you have evidently not
the same point of view--mine is always to look at the facts of a case denuded of prejudice--because
the truth is the thing to aim at--"

"You would suggest that I am not aiming at the truth," the clergyman interrupted, trembling
now with anger, so that he fiercely grasped the back of a high chair, "your words are preposterous,
sir."

"Not at all," Count Roumovski continued. "Look frankly at things; you have just announced that
you would constitute yourself judge of what is for Miss Rawson's salvation."

"Leave her name out, I insist," the other put in hotly.

"To be concrete, unfortunately, I cannot do so," the Russian said. "I must speak of this lady
we are both interested in--pray, try to listen to me calmly, sir, for we are here for the settling
of a matter which concerns the happiness of our three lives."

"I do not admit for a moment that you have the right to speak at all," Mr. Medlicott returned,
but his adversary went on quietly.

"You must have remarked that Miss Rawson possesses beauty of form, sweet and tender flesh,
soft coloring, and a look of health and warmth and life. All these charms tend to create in
man a passionate physical love. That is cause and effect. For the sake of the present argument
we will, for the moment, leave out all more important questions of the soul and things mental
and spiritual. Well, who gave her these attributes? Did you or I--or even her parents, consciously?
Or did the Supreme Being, whom you call God, endow her so? Admitted that He did--have you,
then, or anyone else, the right to crush out the result of His endowment in a woman; crush
her joy of them, force her into a life where their possession is looked upon as a temptation?
Seek to marry her-- remember that marriage physically means being certainly actuated to do
so by their attraction--and yet believing that you sin each time you allow them to influence
you." Count Roumovski's level voice took on a note of deep emotion and his blue eyes gleamed.
"Why, the degradation is horrible to think of, sir, if you will face the truth--and this is
the fate to which you would condemn this young and tender girl for your own selfishness, knowing
she does not love you."

Eustace Medlicott walked up and down rapidly for a moment; he then picked up a book and threw
it aside again in agitation. He was very pale now.

"I refuse to have the woman I have decided to marry snatched from me by any of your sophistries,"
he said breathlessly. "I am better able than you to save her soul, and she owes me honor and
obedience--it is most unseemly to even mention the aspects you have done in a bond which is
a sacrament of holy church and should be only approached in a spiritual frame of mind, not
a carnal one."

"You are talking pure nonsense, sir," returned Count Roumovski sternly. "If that were the case
the wording of your English marriage service would be different. First and foremost, marriage
is a contract between two people to live together in union of body and to procreate children,
which is the law of God and nature. Men added arrangement and endowment of property, and the
church added spiritual sacrament. But God and nature invented the vital thing. If it were not
so, it would have been possible for the spiritually minded, of which company you infer yourself
to be, to live with a woman on terms of brother and sister, and never let the senses speak
at all. There would then have been no necessity for the ceremony of marriage for priests with
your views."

Eustace Medlicott shook with passion and emotion as he answered furiously: "You would turn
the question into one of whether a priest should marry or not. It is a question which has agitated
me all my life, and which I have only lately been able to come to a conclusion upon. I refuse
to let you disturb me in it."

"I had not thought of doing so," Count Roumovski returned tranquilly. "You and your views and
your destiny do not interest me, I must own, except in so far as they interfere with myself
and the woman I love. You have proved yourself to be just a warped atom of the great creation,
incapable of anything but ignoble narrowness. You cannot even examine your own emotions honestly
and probe their meaning or you would realize no man should marry, be he priest or layman, if
he looks upon the joys of physical love as base and his succumbing to them a proof of the power
of the beast in himself. Because he then lives under continual degradation of soul by acting
against his conscience."

Mr. Medlicott was now silent, almost choking with perturbation. So Count Roumovski went on:

"The wise man faces the facts of nature. What it helped that I went out for half an hour earlier and hinstellte me out the door,
the handle in your hand? because the way I wanted to press on with the stroke, I poured Satan
sink over his head, or let me run together with a party stepping out, I was involved in thousands
of Handel and above all failed. - Oh! oh! where are her back, her blissful dreams future happiness,
as I imagined proud, I could probably here bring more to the private secretary! But I am not
my evil star has the best enemies patrons? - I know that do not suffer the Privy Council, to which I
am advised blended hair may, with difficulty, the barber a small pigtail attached to the back
of my head, but in the first bow, the ill-fated jump rope, and a gay pug me umschnüffelt,
retrieves the jubilation in the Privy ponytail. I jump to frightened and rush on the table at which
he has worked breakfast, so that cups, plates, ink, sand box tinkling fall down, and the power
of chocolate and ink over the newly written Relation pours. Sir, you are the devil? shouted the angry
Privy Council and pushes me out the door. - How does it help that I am the vice-principal Paul
Mann Hope to a scribe services has made? Will it allow for my unlucky star, who followed me everywhere?
- Only today! - I love the Ascension would rather celebrate in the comfort, I wanted to tidy what
can go on. I had just as good as any other guest in Bath Left proudly call can: Marqueur - a bottle
of beer - but the best I please! - I would have to late evening can sit, and, moreover, quite close
to this or that wonderful company well-dressed beautiful girl.
 If people could only be honest enough with themselves to have a sensible
point of view! It is all so simple if they would get down to the reason of things without all
this false sentiment. Of what use to chain the body of a woman to one man if her spirit is
with another? Of what use to talk of offended honor with high-sounding words when, if one were
truthful, one would own it was offended vanity? Of what use for this narrow, foolish clergyman
to protest and bombast and rave, underneath he is actuated by mostly human motives in his desire
to marry my Stella? When will the world learn to be natural and see the truth? Love of the
soul is the divine part of the business, but it cannot exist without love of the body. As well
ask a man to live upon bread without water."

Then he moved to his writing table and composed rapidly a letter to his beloved in which he
recounted to her the result of the interview and the threats of her late fiance, and the humor
in which he had quitted the room, and from that she might judge of what she must reasonably
expect. He advised her, as he was unaware of how far the English authority of a guardian might
go, to feign some fatigue and keep her room next day and on no account whatever to be persuaded
to leave Rome or the hotel. He told her that in the morning he would endeavor to see her uncle
and aunt, but if they refused this interview, he would write and ask formally for her hand,
and if his request were treated with scorn, then she must be prepared to slip away with him
to the Excelsior Hotel and be consigned to the care of the Princess Urazov, his sister, who
would have arrived from Paris. The business part of the epistle over, he allowed himself half
a page of love sentences--which caused Miss Rawson exquisite delight when she read them some
moments later.

She had not gone to bed directly, she was too excited and full of new emotions to be thinking
of sleep, and when she heard Ivan's gentle tap at her door she crept to it and whispered without
opening it:

"Who is there?"

A low voice answered: "Une lettre pour mademoiselle." And the epistle was slipped into the
little box for letters on the door. She went back to her wide window and looked out on the
darkness after she had read it. She saw there would be trouble ahead, she knew Eustace Medlicott's
obstinate spirit very well, and also the rigid convention of Aunt Caroline--but to what lengths
they would go she formulated no guess.

It all seemed so secure and happy and calm now with such a man to lean upon as Sasha Roumovski.
Nothing need ruffle or frighten her ever any more. And then she read the love sentences again
and thrilled and quivered there in the warm, soft night. Sasha Roumovski's influence over her
had grown so strong that not a questioning speculation as to the step she meant to take any
longer entered her head. She felt she knew at last what love's meaning truly was, and nothing
else mattered in the world--which, indeed, was the truth! 

Criminal Violations (Disciplinary troops), France, Italy and Russia troops, in which Soldiers will
be added as a punishment.

Criminal list, see criminal records.

Criminal mandate, see punishment.

Penal policy, see Criminal Law, p. 362

Criminal Procedure (criminal, criminal process, procedure or instruction French Criminal) the
judicial process, which takes place in those cases where it is the investigation and punishment
of crimes is, also called for the criminal procedural law, ie, for all the legal principles to
standardize what that process. The compilation such standards in a comprehensive law is called
the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure for the German Reich from 1 Feb. 1877,
the Austrian Code of Criminal Procedure of 23 May 1873 and the Criminal Code d'instruction of Napoleon I
of 1808. The S. part in the broadest Sense on criminal law and is absorbed very reason as well. formal to the
substantive criminal law Criminal Law (sd) compared. During the civil or civil case in which
to decide private disputes is allocated initially by the Romans to private law and this was in any
case still stands close can the exclusively public Nature of the doubt a criminal trial not prevail.
For while the majority of private law claims is met without judicial help through voluntary
service on the part of the debtor, , the reality of the state criminal claim against evil-doers
without formal procedure never be. No one can voluntarily surrender power to the process of
public punishment or agree to submit to a criminal judge's decision, because the rights in which the
Punishment are engaged, from the standpoint of the individual from vital and a rule that a minor
exception to fines only in so far suffered than for transgressions of the police Guilty to
a payment instruction (so-called spot fines) can submit voluntarily. The difference between
civil procedure and S. occurs connected with this principle, it also shows that the criminal judge
of the material truth in a very different measure in checking the facts and emulate the management of the
legal rules, has allowed than in civil proceedings is where the so-called. formal truth plays
a prominent role. Thus, for example, in civil proceedings appreciative of the truthfulness of
an applicant's claim defendants did not investigate further, During the confession of an accused
still an examination on the part of the judge Is subject before the sentence can be pronounced
as a punishment. At the lowest Levels of public cultural look at these two basic forms of the process,
however, very similar because the crime is first conceived as Schadenzufügung and the immediately
Injured with the assertion of his claims at the same time the state's interests represents.
At this stage of the old Germanic S. stands with his principle: "Where there is no accuser is,
there is no judge. "The creation of the state criminal law is of the conduct of the parties depends
on (so-called private prosecution process in the narrower sense). At a higher Stage of development
is because the criminal proceedings, where every citizen, regardless of his own befallen injury,
may exercise the rights of the public prosecutor as a whole. Such were the facilities in the ancient
republics, especially in Greece and Rome; in particular, gives us the right of the Roman Republic
in its heyday a classically perfected The pattern of the civil trial process dar. If indeed
to the moral decline in attacks and crime are common, so must the Anklagethätigkeit the individual
citizen appear to be inadequate. The usual consequences of the civil trial process In such times
are then: increasing impunity, corruption of the Prosecutor by rich Criminals, extortion by threat of
an indictment against the innocent, a court Process fear, suspension of bonuses or rewards informers
to because of State self-interested people to the prosecution to irritate. Even the Romans had, like
the Athenians, To learn all dark side of civil charges in the later times. However, also remained
the older ecclesiastical canon law in this organization of law enforcement stand. Until the
13th Cent occurs in the German base resting on macro-neously indictment a remarkable turnaround one.
In the earliest beliefs of the Christian Church namely, the moral requirement was justified-det,
that sinful Christian to self-blame committed in the confessional and purification by penance by
his conscience is. In their Send courts preserved the church of this duty of disclosure in the
application to third parties. She held in their jurisdiction that certain strongly suspects
by oath to were cleaned by the present accusations against them (so-called cleaning silk).
This isolated, by the way even in Roman law perceptible beginnings of an official intervention
were now by Innocent III. since the end of the 12th Cent on the third Lateran Council the starting point
to the formation of the so-called. Inquisition process (investigation process). Originally intended
as an exception to this inquisition in addition to the continued existence of the elder Prosecution
process than the rule. Nevertheless, the new procedure corresponded so much the existing Needs

360

Criminal Procedure (historical development).

firming that it not
only in the ecclesiastical courts soon became prevalent, but also
in the secular justice more and more gained the upper hand.

The judge thereafter from Own motion to intervene anywhere, all the relations of the accusation
and defense to investigate his office. From certain rights of the parties could thus no question
be. One difference here, the General Inquisition as the preliminary stage of the special inquisition
as the investigation which had already taken their direction to specific individuals. At the
same time Inquisition of heretics was in the process and the secrecy required, giving weight applied to the
Roman law, the torture. That was towards the end of the Middle Ages, the Inquisition process in the
continental countries have become dominant, with his written text of the procedure in place of orality
and the development of a review system. An exception was only England, where in connection with the jury (sd),
the old Germanic process equipment were in essential respects, so that England still currently
the only State for Culture is where the old indictment, if already modified in many ways, to
the present has received. The (embarrassing) Neck court order of Emperor Charles V of 1532 (the so-called.
Carolina) joined in their strafprozessualischen contents closely to the existing conditions
of the then Time. Favoring especially the written language, which is then a means of protection
had to see against arbitrary persecution, and therefore wrote the concurrence of court clerks (Actuaries)
as an essential process before organs. An outstanding merit earned the Carolina in that it completely
shattered Germany in the new proof procedure ordered was set up by a solid proof of their
theory. No one should be without adequate, full evidence to be convicted. A full proof but provided only the
confession, the matching statement at least two witnesses or the court appearances, while absorbed
due to a conviction. View or circumstantial evidence was excluded. Any incomplete, also not
sufficient circumstantial evidence for conviction was offset by embarrassing question (Torture)
can be added, that on the rack stored and afterwards confirmed confession justified the condemnation.

Thus,
the S. crafted since the mid-17th Cent, mainly for Germany to that of the method, which testifies
to the Saxon lawyer Carpzov: the pure Investigation process, so first intervention of the judge, subordinate
to which the criminal is Voruntersuchungsführung the judge in the sense of be brought about
by coercion or tricks Confessions, accurate record of all determination in the criminal files, after
the exhaustion Final document of evidence, claiming a defense in
the most serious, Approval of such in less serious cases, sending
the document by the court of inquiry (Inquisitoriaten) to the judging
court, either on the merits of the position of the Document on presentation
of a speaker recognizes final orders or other evidence; or recognize
the embarrassing question.

An appeals process only knows the investigation of the Continue to defend in favor of the Inquisit.
The enforcement of ruling directs the coroner. The old theory was evidence of torture in its
center. Once this (first by Friedrich Great.) was abolished in Germany, which generally towards
the end of the 18th Century was, development had to come of the Inquisition process to falter. Even in the
middle of the last Century, especially after one of Montesquieu and Voltaire with the English institutions
was known, insisted on the continent to the old S. unfavorable opinion within the educated
classes. The tradition of the old Inquisition process, however, was so firmly rooted in Germany that the
Criminal Procedure of Prussia (1805) and the Bavarian S. (1813) and Austria just as in the
former procedure in the 19th Century clung tenaciously. Only with the general movement of the
spirit of 1848, took place long ago, made necessary Fracture. Most German states led a public
and oral trial procedures , and the fundamental rights of the German people determined the main principles
of the reform. Long before 1848 but had theory and science, the need for a thorough Improvement of
the criminal process dargethan facilities. The pattern is 1848, and in the following Years to
follow preferably decided, offered the French process, the left bank in the remained parts of
the country are German states from the Napoleonic era. France even had the first start of the revolution
in 1789 with the removal of the old criminal procedure Ernst made. During the procedure itself,
the German states of the criminal procedure law is significantly approached, France had inherited
from the Middle Ages a magistrate, whose position afterwards is crucial and exemplary for the
whole European continent should be: the public prosecutor (ministère public), emerged from
the Royal Procurators, who perceive the fiscal interests of the Crown in the courts originally
had been determined, and gradually a significant influence on the course of criminal procedure
were obtained. From these elements of the royal legal representation formed the French Revolution,
the state authority to its essential functions, the operation of public Prosecution (action
publique), the collection of incriminating evidence and carrying out accelerator, a Not allow deferral
of evidence collection, representing the prosecution at the public trial the appeal and the enforcement
of the judgments are. The French Process in the Belgian Code of Criminal of 1808 come to a conclusion
means the investigation process with outward form indictment. The essence of the real indictment
due process namely the adoption of concept of the party and the equality rights of the party.
There can, however, according to French his right question. The prosecutor is an agency independent
of the judge, for any Excesses of the judicial discipline, not subject, commissioned by the word
with the protection of the law, without deductible guarantees of personal independence, and
the Instructions than under the minister of justice, yet in some things, but again the court Office regarding
the parent of the Board, if he active as an organ of the judicial supervision to be added. This pattern
is French accordingly as well as in the German laws the public prosecutor in Germany since 1848

361

Criminal
Procedure - Criminal.

been established in most German states. The prosecution is therefore the only legitimate organ of the
prosecution. A limitation of the so-called. Charge monopoly is just the fact that after a judge
investigating the charges brought against can continue the request of the prosecutor and ordered further,
according to French Right even the state authorities for trial stopped by the appeal courts may,
further, that in certain fiscal matters (eg in criminal and customs Steuerkontraventionen)
administrative institutions can go to the courts, and that sucked at. The latter, the State authority
to the criminal complaint of the victim is bound. The shortcomings of the continental Organization
process occurs predominantly produced in that the State authority in failing One of the co
indictment as it is in the exercise of the pardon law and, in Depending on the prevailing party currents,
will be less inclined to the excesses of the civil service counter effectively. On the German
jurists days was therefore repeated the approval of so-called. subsidiary private prosecution
for those cases in favor, in which the state authorities for their
intervention is denied. was in the period 1848-1877 by the way criminal
procedural law in Germany very varied.

A group of laws retained the elder, on the basis of the Inquisition
procedure dormant laws and associated so in an external way the bodies
of the Prosecutor, the Court of Assizes, the In public and oral trial
(as in Prussia and Bavaria).

A second group acted against all reforms negative (eg, Mecklenburg).

A third class was new, uniform fare crafted code of criminal procedure by the French soon Patterns
followed closely (as in Hanover, Rheinhessen), sometimes the experience of English law recycled (Brunswick),
now in more self-treatment, the legal process (associated Baden, Württemberg, Saxony). These
differences is finally the Reich Criminal Procedure 1 February 1877 in conjunction with the
27th Judicial Law Jan. 1877 put an end been. Also this new law rests on the basis of the French
criminal procedure. The Principles of the current state of law are the following: 1) Three division of criminal
justice in the lower body in such a way that the light of criminal cases in district courts
concurrence of aldermen, the moderate passage of the Trial Chambers of the District Courts,
the heavy Crimes to be tried by jury (see Court, p. 166). 2) Establishment of the Public Prosecutor
(Sd) is much the French model. Only in exceptional cases and mild insults Injury occurs to
the private prosecutor in the place of the prosecutor. 3) maintaining the written and secret preliminary
investigation as opposed to the current rules in England the public and oral. The guide for the
preliminary investigation by the District Courts appointed investigator shall not participate
in the trial. It is necessary to Preliminary investigation, however, swore in court only those cases.
4) evidence at trial by the judge as opposed to the English form of cross-examination that the parties
even the demonstrated they interview witnesses and admission of the counter question on the part
process of the opponent. 5) retention of the interrogation of the defendants, the English legal
alien remained. 6) elimination of all judicial conviction restrictive rules of evidence with the
sole Exception of the swearing in of witnesses and experts related rules, while in England remained
a dish commonly used system of rules of evidence. 7) public (Sd) and orality of the trial,
recently former somewhat limited. 8) Institute the necessary, if required by its own motion to initiating
defense in serious crime cases. 9) elimination of the appeal, the appeal against court Results,
namely the principal, their value to the dubious deviation French Legal forms. The reinstatement of
the appeal against the judgments of the District Courts Trial Chambers is often sought. Currently,
the only appeal against findings of the jury court permitted. She goes to the Criminal Division
of the District Court. Judgments of the Trial Chambers of the District Courts and jury trials are
only limited by the appeal of the audit (sd) final. The Revision deals only with the legal question,
not with the fact question. 10) extension of the appeal, the resumption of the process for partial
replacement of the calling and to challenge the fact question. Special procedural rules apply to disobey
Absent (So-called Kontumazialverfahren). Also there are special courts in the event of martial
law and charges of high treason against the empire, for which the highest court competent
Reich is.

[. Literature] For the earlier right before 1848: Mitton, The German criminal proceedings (4th
edition, Heidelb. 1846, 2 vols); Feuerbach, considerations of the public and the oral Court Care
(Gieß. 1821 and 1824), Martin, Textbook of Criminal Process (5th ed by Temme, Leipz. 1857).
For the transitional stage from 1848-77: Planck, systematic presentation of the German Criminal
proceedings based on the new Code of Criminal Procedure since 1848 (Götting. 1857); Zacharia,
Manual of the German criminal trial (ibid. 1861-68). For the new German Code of Criminal Procedure:
Comments by Dalke (2nd edition, Berl. 1880), Hahn (2nd edition, this 1884 ff), Keller (2nd
edition, Lahr 1882), Leo (5th edition, Berl 1888), Puchelt, blacks, including Thilo;. V. Holtzendorff,
Manual of the German criminal procedural law, in individual contributions of several authors
(ibid. 1877-79, 2 vols); Textbooks of the German criminal procedural law by von Bar (ibid. 1878),
Docherty (3rd edition, this 1880), John (2nd edition, Leipz.


Her luncheon was brought up on a tray by the waiter, and some for Martha also, and the two
ate in silence, until Stella suddenly burst into a merry peal of laughter, it was so grotesquely
comic! A grown up English girl in these days locked in her room with a dragon duenna gaoler!

"Martha, isn't it too funny, the whole thing!" she said, between her gurgles. "Can't you laugh,
you old goose! and to think how sorry you will be, you were so horrid, when I am gone, because,
of course, you know you cannot keep me once I make up my mind to go."

"Mrs. Ebley said I was to have no conversation with you, Miss," Martha said, glumly, at which
Stella laughed afresh.

Meanwhile Count Roumovski had made all arrangements at the Excelsior Hotel, and after lunch
sat quietly in the hall awaiting his beloved. Mrs. Ebley had felt too upset to go down to the
restaurant, so the two clergymen were there alone, and glanced wrathfully at the imperturbable
face of Count Roumovski seated at his usual table, with his air of detached aloofness and perfect
calm. They, on the contrary, were so boiling with rage that they knew not what they ate.

After lunch it had been decided that the party should leave the Grand and take the five o'clock
train to Florence, and their preparations were made.

Mrs. Ebley had herself been laboriously packing so as not to take Martha from her post, and
orders were whispered to that faithful Abigail through Stella's letter slide to pack Miss Rawson's
things at once.

Stella watched these preparations serenely, and gave Martha directions as to what to put on
the top. Then when all was finished and she had donned her hat, she rang the electric bell
for the waiter, and when he knocked at the door she calmly bade him enter, which, of course,
he was able to do with his key, and she told him in French, which Martha did not understand,
to send the porters there immediately, and have her luggage consigned to the care of the servant
who would be waiting in the passage. This person would give orders for its destination. The
waiter bowed obsequiously. Had he not been already heavily tipped by this intelligent Ivan,
and instructed instantly to obey the orders of mademoiselle?"

"It is much better I am before them," Stella thought to herself, while Martha looked on in
rageful bafflement.

"The porters will come up and take the trunks outside, Martha," Miss Rawson said. "You can
give them what orders aunt told you to."

Such was her supreme confidence in the methods of her lover that she felt sure once Ivan was
apprised of the fact by the waiter that the trunks would be consigned to him it would not matter
what Martha said to the porters! So she calmly sat down by the window and folded her hands,
while the elderly maid fumed with the uncertainty of what she ought to do. And in a few moments
the men appeared, and smilingly seemed to understand the gestures and English orders of Martha
to take the trunks to the door of Madam Ebley, number 325, round the corner of the passage
and on the opposite side.

They nodded their heads wisely and carried the box out, shutting the door after them, and then
there was silence for a while; and Stella half-dozed in her chair, it was so warm and peaceful
by the window and she had had so little sleep in the night.

An hour passed, and at four o'clock the Aunt Caroline appeared. Her face was grim. Had Stella
been an outcast in deed and word she could not have looked more disdainful.

"You must come down with me now, Stella," she said, "we are ready to go to the station. I will
remain with you here until Martha gets her hat."

Stella rose to her feet and before the astonished lady could speak more, she had swiftly passed
her and gained the door, which she threw open, and, like a fawn, rushed down the passage toward
the staircase entrance side of the hotel, and by the time her slowly moving aunt had emerged
from the room she had turned the corner and was out of sight.

Fortunately, she met no one on the stairs except one astonished page, and arrived in the outer
corridor breathless with excitement and emotion.

Count Roumovski saw her through the door of the hall, and hastened to meet her.

"There is not a moment to be lost," she said, as he got to her side.

"Go to the place you went before under the trees," he whispered hurriedly in return. "The automobile
is there, and I will follow presently." So she went.

Her knees would hardly support her, she trembled so, until she was safe in the big blue motor,
which moved off at once. For an awful moment a hideous sense of terror overcame her, making
her cold. What lay in front of her? What new fate?--and then joy and life came back. She was
going to freedom and love-away from Exminster and dreary duties--away from Eustace Medlicott,
for ever! For, of course, her uncle and aunt would come round in time, and they could be happy
again with her some day.

When Mrs. Ebley had collected her scattered senses and followed down the passage only to find
Stella out of sight, she was obliged to retrace her steps and rejoin her husband and Mr. Medlicott,
who were awaiting her at the lift on the other side, the restaurant end, which was the one
they were accustomed to descend by.

"She ran away from me, Erasmus!" the agitated lady cried, "passed me without a word, and I
suppose has gone down the stairs--if we hasten in the lift we shall catch her yet."

But as they frantically rang the bell and the lift boy did not come, Eustace Medlicott, with
a most unsaintly exclamation, hastened off by that staircase and arrived in the hall to see
the hated Russian calmly smoking his cigarette and reading an English paper.

He advanced upon him regardless of the numbers of people beginning to assemble for tea.

"What have you done with Miss Rawson?" he asked furiously. "She has this moment run away from
her aunt."

"I have nothing to converse with you about," Count Roumovski returned, with mild surprise.
"And, as I see it is four o'clock, I must wish you a good-day, as I have an appointment," with
which he rose quietly before the other could prevent him, and crossed the broad path of carpet
which separates the groups of chairs, and there was seen to enter into earnest conversation
with a Russian- looking individual who had just entered.

The Reverend Mr. Medlicott was nonplussed, and hurried into the front vestibule, where he made
rapid inquiries of the hall-porter.

Yes--the young lady, he believed, had walked out of the hotel not two minutes before. Monsieur
would overtake her certainly, if he hastened. And the frantic young man rushed from the door,
through the porte cochere, and so to the street, but all he saw in the far distance was a retreating
large, blue automobile--and this conveyed among all the rest of the traffic no impression whatever.

To search for Stella was hopeless; the only thing to do was to return to the Ebleys, and with
them go to the Embassy. There they could, perhaps, get advice and help how to communicate with
the police.

But what an ignominious position for a Bishop's junior chaplain to be placed in, a humiliation
in every way!

CHAPTER VII

When Stella found the automobile drawing up at a strange hotel's doors her tremors broke out
afresh, until she saw the face of Ivan, who, with the porter, came forward to meet her, saying
respectfully in French, would mademoiselle be pleased to mount directly to the rooms reserved
for the Princess Urazov? And soon, without anyone questioning her, she found herself being
taken up in the lift, and finally ushered into a charming sitting-room full of flowers.

Here she sat down and trembled again. The wildest excitement filled her veins. Would Sasha
never come! She could not sit still, she walked from bouquet to bouquet of roses and carnations,
sniffing the scent, and at last subsided into a big armchair, as the waiters brought in some tea.

He thought of everything for her, then--her lover. But oh, why did he not come!

She had finished her tea and had begun her restless pacing again, when, with a gentle tap,
the door opened, and Count Roumovski appeared.

"Sasha!" she cried, and advanced toward him like a frightened child.

His usually calm blue eyes were blazing with some emotion which disturbed her greatly, she
knew not why, and his voice seemed to have taken a tone of extra deepness, as he said:

"Stella! My little star! And so you are really here--and my own!"

He put his strong hands down and held on to the back of a chair, and simple as she was she
knew very well that otherwise he would have taken her into his arms, which was where she was
longing to be, if she had known.

"Yes, I have come," she whispered, "I have left them all--for you. Oh! when will your sister
be here?"

"Not until six o'clock, darling," he answered, while his eyes melted upon her with passionate
love. "There is an hour yet to wait. I had hoped you would not have been forced to leave your
aunt's care until then."

"Oh! I am delighted to have come away," Stella answered, regaining some of her composure. "I
was shut into my room and watched by a servant. It was awful! But do--you know what has happened
now? since I left? Are they tearing about after me, or what?"

Count Roumovski still held on to the back of the chair, and his voice was still deep, as he said:

"I believe they have gone to your Embassy in a band--and much good may they get there. You
are of age, you see. Abuse therefore
were occurring in English legal history Bills of attainder, which in the way of legislation
does not explain some actions for the future for an offense, but were punished afterwards. In
the main, therefore, applies the principle that criminal laws do not retroactive Have power in relation
to the previously committed prior to their application, without penalty or less what has been
criminal acts. 2) Local limits. The will of the criminal legislature is only obligatory within
the territory controlled by him, no one has the right to foreigners to issue binding orders abroad:
the law is territorial. From this principle It, however, exceptions which, firstly, from the practical
need of an effective Property protection, on the other hand result from the poor state of international
law. Any State punished his subjects today because of certain crimes committed abroad, and for
the most part, exceptionally, be foreigners because individual committed abroad Misdeeds worst
rank (eg, treason, Münzverbrechen) subject to penalties. The limitation of this criminal force
against other countries, however, is still one of the most difficult and most disputed matters
of science. For while some of a so-called. Territoriality and then go abroad misdeeds committed in principle
want to leave unpunished, others pay homage (Mohl, Geyer, Carrara), a view which as universal
jurisdiction is called (world order principle) and not at the place of fact regularly observed,
at last others again which sucked. Personality principle, according to at least the subjects of the State
should remain in the domestic criminal laws abroad everywhere bound. 3) Representational Barriers.
The irreligious or immoral simply leaves the field of criminal law from what is more important
today for the S., as in former times, the criminal law all religious and ecclesiastical elements mixed
with strong, was mainly in the Middle Ages where the influence of canon law prevailed. The penalty
forced the state is also just as applied in the civil penalty is not enough to say the pressure
to meet, to refund, to replace and to surrender them. In the latter respect, but history teaches
criminal law, that the views are understood on the criminality in a strong transformation.
From Position of current knowledge, of saying that the limit of the criminal Actions against
the civil matter for a simple, universal Formula can be taken anywhere. The criminal law has much more
necessary when the will identify criminal acts proper to unite two aspects: the ethical, that
only the respective immoral acts to the national consciousness as a criminal can appear, and
the criminal policy, that a sensitive, permanent injury or risk

363

Criminal Law (theories).

the total social order of certain actions to get is.

How different In this piece, the thinking of the civilized nations,
shows most clearly is that the Romans stealing private property only
as a violation of civil consequences (of exceptions apart), treated
during the theft has become for us the most important of all crimes
is.

Considering also the mass of the regularly declared as criminal acts, we shall not fail, but
to three groups of facts: 1) those crimes, the content is a very changeable times and locations
and variable largely shows. These are preferably the so-called. political or state crimes in
which the national legislation of each element manifests. Because this act as absolutely stocks
are not immoral, they act as any delivery obligation under civilized States, 2) such crimes,
which comparatively is approximately the same content to all Times have been and therefore represent
the cosmopolitan element of the legal system: Murder, manslaughter, forgery, fraud, rape, etc.,
and 3) those in which the unlawful violation the private will, the damage outweighs the general
interest and therefore the punishment made to the request of the injured subject (so-called application
fraud) is. In this latter Group there are the points of contact between civil and criminal injustice.

With
the actual reason and purpose of punishment is concerned, the criminal justice theories. However,
there is in this respect by no means a scientific consensus. The recent, extremely numerous theories
of punishment have been classified according to the following aspects: I. Relative theories (utilitarian
theories), who regard the punishment as a means by which the State is entitled to promote the incumbent
welfare purposes. II Absolute theories (of justice, retribution, and compensation theories, as
distinct from Prevention theories) that the punishment, regardless
of certain purposes, as absolutely dutiful Bethätigung of the state
prevailing moral idea conceived.

III. Mixed Theories (including theories of association), which both the absolute necessity
of punishment as their usefulness to stress.

The most important relative theories were: the deterrence theory that by the prison others
are deterred from crime by committing to, the threat theory (theory of psychological coercion),
especially by Feuerbach, represented that the people through the threat of punishment of criminal
acts should be discouraged from Bauer warning theory mentioned. This subheading also includes the
so-called. Prevention theory that the individual criminal will prevent the punishment from
committing further crimes, that is a "specific deterrence" In contrast to the "general deterrence"
theory of the threat intends, especially of Grolman set, then the
improvement Roeder's theory according to which the security of society
by retuning the criminal intent of the criminal Nacherziehung virtue
have reached should be, and finally by the theory of punishment to
be awarded moral damages of Welch and the theory of social self-defense
resulted in the punishment against the Crimes, put forward the already
Beccaria and Blackstone in the last century and was defended in Germany
by Martin. - The absolute theories are preferably: the retribution
theory of Kant, based on the categorical imperative of equality Criminal
between evil and evil crimes (subsequently further developed by Henke,
Zacharia, Berne) and Hegel's theory of justice, after which the negation
of the right crime and punishment should be the negation of negation,
that affirmation of the law.

The theory of religious Propitiation of the divine world order, such as those of ultra-montane or
Lutheran-Orthodox Lawyers championed heard here. - The unification theories (represented by Abegg,
Berner, Heinze, Merkel among others) are based on a dual developmental series. Either usefulness
as a basic relation of the sentence and the prosecution acknowledged the utility purposes a barrier to the
idea of ​​justice prevail, or the justice is the moral Foundation of the punishment issue, although
the Zweckwidrigkeit a limit to achieving the idea of ​​law means. Finally, one has (Abegg) the identity
proof of usefulness and undertaken to carry justice on the ground of criminal law. The final
discharge The dispute about the criminal law theory has not yet been brought.

As for Germany, the older criminal state rested before 16 Cent to the same formal basis as the
entire right of all: on older Germanic legal customs, on the specific effect of church-canonical
views, and finally to the reception of Roman law. Strangely enough Germany came in 1532 under
Charles V at a uniform Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code (Constitutio Carolina Criminalis
= CCC), which under the monuments of the German rights law earlier centuries undoubtedly the
most outstanding Place deserves. These makeshift, with great difficulty, reached the continuation
of old Germanic and habits of Roman law but appreciative legislative unit decomposed in the 18th
Cent complete, insofar as the court use the old, progressing with the Humanity incompatible corporal
punishment abolished. Frederick the Great. first recognized the need a comprehensive new legal
code. The old common law became more and more by the Partikularstrafgesetzbücher displaced from
each country, and so the difference between common and particular German S. The last century
include the Josephinische Code of 1787 and the Prussian General Land Law of 1794. Of far-reaching Influence
was the French Criminal Code of 1810. which is still present in France, though variously modified,
is valid (also in Holland and in revised form even in Belgium). Relatively less noticeable was
this influence in the developed before 1848 German penal code, under which protrudes the Bavarian,
whose author was Feuerbach, and the Brunswick Baden from 1840 and 1845 are particularly worth
mentioning (in addition: Kingdom of Saxony in 1838, Hanover, Hesse-Darmstadt
in 1840 and 1841).

After 1848, however, was the Increased influence of French law in that in the rush to the
adoption of the French criminal procedure was determined pattern. No law book has, however, the

364

Criminal law theories - criminal records.

Code pénal connected in his technique as closely as the Prussian of 14 April 1851, the after 1866 and
1867 in the neueinverleibten parts of the country came to bear. Net 1848-1870 also includes the following
Penal Codes in Nassau in 1849, Thuringia (together with Continued, but without the Old Castle), 1850,
Oldenburg 1858, Bavaria, 1861, Lübeck, 1863, Hamburg 1869th In a few countries (Mecklenburg,
Bremen, Schaumburg-Lippe, Kurhessen) had the old common law in judicial use. As early as 1848 a
general recognition that arbitrary fragmentation of the criminal law in Germany, and the fundamental
rights prescribed a uniform German Penal Code, and also the first German Jurists in Berlin
said on v. Kräwels request the criminal justice unit necessary. went into the North German
Federal Constitutional this national demand as a constitutional article on. On the external basis
of the Prussian Criminal Code of 1851, resting, then was the former North German Penal Code of 31 May
1870, as the soon after the establishment of the empire in a different editorial German Reich Criminal
Code of 15 May 1871 is published again, since 1 Jan. 1872 in Germany is and has been introduced
in the rich country.

Not everything is sorted p. uniform for Germany.

In addition to the criminal realm is a state criminal law in those
matters that were not ordered because of Reich or were left to the
legislation of individual states explicitly.

By and large, throughout the kingdom with the Criminal Code trait
of mercy, the chief defects of the Prussian Penal Code have been eliminated.

However, unless required by the Reichstag considered penal law is missing, the criminal remains
incomplete unit. Individual palpable blunders of the Criminal Code, the Criminal Law Amendment
26 Feb. 1876 remedied. A military criminal code is 20 Adopted in June 1872 for the German Reich.
The draft Austrian and the Hungarian Criminal Code of 1878, close to the German at. At present
in Austria, or the Criminal Code is 27 Mai 1852nd Modern criminal codes are those of the Swiss
cantons of Zurich (1871), Geneva (1874), Schwyz (1881) and others, the Criminal Code the Netherlands
(1881), Belgium (1867), Denmark (1866), Sweden (1864), Iceland (1869), Hungary (1878), Bosnia (1881),
Russia (1866), Spain (1870), Romania (1864) and Serbia (1860). In Britain lacks a criminal code.

[Literature.]
Under the older textbooks of German criminal law are the works of Feuerbach, Grolman, Mittermaier,
Guardian, Heffter and Abegg emphasized. Recent textbooks by Berner (15th edition, Leipz. 1888), Hugo
Meyer (4th edition, Erlang. 1886), Sagittarius (2nd edition, Leipz. 1874) v. Bar (Vol. 1, Berl.
1882), v. Liszt (2nd edition, this 1884) and von Waechter (lectures, Leipz. 1881). See also
Holtz v. Dorff, Handbook of German criminal law in individual contributions (different Author,
Berl. 1871 ^ 77). Comments of the Reich Criminal Code of Oppenhoff
(11th edition, Berl.

1888), Black (5th edition, Leipz. 1884), Olshausen (2nd edition, Berl. 1886, 2 vols), Ruedorffer
(13th edition, this 1885), including plans for lectures from Binding (3rd edition, Leipz. 1884)
Geyer (Münch. 1884 f.) and others fall, Handbook of the Austrian Penal Code (7th edition,
Vienna 1883, 2 vols), Janka, Austrian P. (Prague 1884); Nypels, Le droit pénal progressif francais
et compare (par. 1864). Magazines: "The court room" (since 1874 merged with that of v. Holtzendorff
since 1861, published "General German Criminal News"); Goltdammers "Archive of Prussian (and since
1871 for German) P."; "magazine for the entire Criminal Science (since 1881), "Rivista penale di Dottrina,
legislazione e giurisprudenza" (Since 1874). The decisions of the German Supreme Court in criminal
matters under the Title: "Case Law of the German Supreme Court in criminal matters by members
of the Writs of published.

Criminal law theories, see Criminal Law, p. 363

Criminal record (criminal list), the official list of the registry
authority in the district provisions adopted pursuant to court convictions.

Is then made from the general S. an excerpt comprising the punishment of a single specific person,
you get the Criminal List (The criminal record, the record of punishment) of the same person.
Such a page is for the legal Assessment of a person often of great importance. For the German Empire
now by order of the Federal Council of 16 June 1882 the management of criminal records in general
required (see "The Journal of the German Reich", p. 309). In these pages, which, according specific forms
are to be run, all by judicial summonses, police Punishments, penal judgments of civil courts,
including the Consular Court, and registered with criminal convictions in military courts above
shall be issued final sentences and because of actual crimes and misdemeanors, and because
of the following offenses: Fracture police supervision or expulsion from the Reich, vagrancy,
begging, the criminal conduct of those persons who are to the game, drink or idleness indulge in
such a way that they get into a state in which their maintenance or Maintenance of those whose
diet requires them through the medium of the foreign authority Aid must be claimed, police commercial
indecency in violation Regulations, work-shy of self-inflicted from poor public funds and augmentative
Homelessness. Except for the convictions in the private prosecution on negotiated terms, in forestry
and Feldrügesachen, failure to comply with rules on collection of public Taxes and descent,
and because of certain military crimes and misdemeanors. In the S. Furthermore, the decisions
of the state police authorities on the placement of sentenced persons
in a work house or their use for charitable work, as do the Foreign
incoming communications on convictions was there to write.

With respect to that Sentenced to identify their birth or not located
outside of the Reich is the S. at the Reich Justice Ministry in Berlin
is performed while the rest of the record-keeping the competent authorities
relating to the responsibility of all persons whose place of birth
in the same district is located.

These authorities are in Prussia and in most other German states, the State lawyers in district
courts, in Bavaria and Bremen, the Deputy Public Prosecutor, in Saxony and Bathing the district courts,
in Württemberg, the local boards of each municipality and in Alsace-Lorraine the judicial writings
of the District Courts. The up-

365

Criminal matters - criminal cases.

supervision and management of the register management is under all circumstances, the prosecutor in
The district courts ob necessary notifications were made to convictions of the concerned authorities
to the registration authority or place of birth, provided that the authority notifying authority
is not known to the prosecution of that district court, belongs to the district where the birth
to be addressed. If the birth does not determine or located outside Germany, the notice is issued
to the Reich justice office. This criminal Message is in accordance with statutory form. Judicial
and other public German authorities is free to any one particular person in question requested,
on the content of the page official information shall be granted. Requests and information made to
the prescribed form. To what extent to grant foreign authorities such information, determines the
respective local government and in consideration of the discussions at the register office of Justice
of the Chancellor. An international Regulate this matter is in prospect. See Hamm, "The introduction
of uniform S. (Mannh. 1876).

Criminal cases, those legal matters on which it is the investigation and Punishment of crimes involved.
Their treatment as determined by the principles of law the Criminal Procedure (sd).

Criminal Division, Department of the Imperial Court (qv) or a Higher Regional Court (qv), which
entrusted with the processing of criminal cases.

Criminal Case (penal), which is granted in a criminal investigation, judicial Decision, shares in
the main or final judgments (detinitivae sententiae) and intermediate
rulings (See interlocutoriae).

The former are decisions on the merits by which a criminal trial
is brought to an end and the other be given before the examination
for the precipitation of a has delivered final judgment necessary
result, such as a decision on commencement of the trial, on the admissibility
of pretrial detention, denial of a judge, etc. In the narrower sense
is understood However, under S. only that judicial decision, which
concludes the main Verso Hren (Final verdict), whether through condemnation,
whether by acquittal, it is finite by setting the procedure.

Some criminologists refer to as S. Finally, only the sentencing Final
verdict (see ruling).

Criminal proceedings, both called for a single criminal investigation for the Process in general,
which for the purpose of the investigation and punishment of criminal Actions take place.
The initiation of criminal proceedings (of a criminal investigation, of criminal, criminal process)
is now the rule in the Prosecutor's Office. Only occasionally is it left to the victim, by his alleged
criminal wrong injured right in court to monitor itself, according to German criminal law process
in simple Insults and minor physical injuries in the way of private prosecution (sd). The
prosecution, with minor offenses and violations of your attorney, intervenes on reported Display,
which not only the State or Deputy Public Prosecutor, but also to the authorities and placed officials
of the police and security service as well as the District Courts can. At the request crimes (sd), which
criminally prosecuted only at the request of the injured be, it requires
a formal application.

The page itself is divided into a pre-trial and a main procedure. The former has the purpose
of determining whether a particular person due to to open a specific crime was the main Verso Hren.
Purpose of trial however, it is to determine whether the defendant
guilty of his alleged crime was.

Regarding the preliminary is between the preparation methods (determination, Skrutinialverfahren)
and the preliminary investigation (sd) to differ.

The former deals primarily with the prosecutor Worked with the support of police authorities. You
can also claim the judge in Take the latter of imminent danger speedy investigation of its own
actions and must make due. The preparation process is aimed not at first necessary to a particular
person, rather it is in the same above all a question of whether there is a crime, and in the
affirmative case, but soon also the Determination of the perpetrator. In contrast, the preliminary investigation
is a particular accused and a particular crime in question. The preliminary investigation by the
judge (trial judge) out, and purpose of it is, by clarifying the facts of a decision to allow
to judge whether the trial procedure to open against the accused, or whether the same is to be put out
of persecution. The commencement of the trial (sd) sets a Indictment, the prosecutor's ahead,
be it that it because of the preparation process, either because
it is presented on the basis of the preliminary investigation.

The preparation procedure includes either the initiation of investigations, or the commencement
of the trial, or down but with the setting (sd) of proceedings by the prosecutor. If, however,
conducted a preliminary investigation, the court shall decide whether to open the trial, or whether
the page is set permanently or temporarily. The trial itself is in the trial court (sd, p. 166)
instead. The main focus of the proceedings, as that of the entire criminal proceedings, is
located in the main trial (sd). This includes off with the award made by either an acquittal or sentencing,
and only exceptionally aimed at setting the investigation. Of course, does not quite every criminal case
all three stages of criminal proceedings, preparation procedure, preliminary examination and
trial, to go through. But the preliminary investigation at the front of the Supreme Court or before
the jury related criminal matters necessary for the jury court matters, however illegal (German
Criminal Procedure, § 176). On the page in the first instance is a method in the instance the appeal
(sd), possibly, a procedure for re-admission Connect the procedure. The final sentencing follows
the penal punishment. When are special types of criminal proceedings under the German Criminal
Procedure Code following to name: 1) the S. at the Local Court of punishment (sd), 2) the
P. after previous police orders (sd), 3) the S. in the penalty notice (sd) of the administrative
(Administrative pages), 4) the proceedings against absent, which evaded the conscription have, 5) at the S. recoveries
and

366

Penal - ejectors.
 You
must remember, Count Roumovski is a foreigner, and we English people are prejudiced. I--fear
for your happiness, my dear child!"

"You do not pay me a high compliment, sir," Count Roumovski said, but without resentment. "Time,
however, will prove whether I can take care of your niece or no. Do you feel any fear for yourself,
Stella?"

"Not in the least," Miss Rawson said, and they clasped fond hands. "I would go away with you,
Sasha, to the ends of the earth now at once, and never ask you a single question. And I should
certainly die if I were forced to go back to Eustace Medlicott."

"Then I suppose there is nothing more to be said," Canon Ebley stammered, upon which Stella
again flung herself into his arms.

"Indeed, sir--I give you my word that you will not regret this decision," Count Roumovski said
gravely. "I believe your niece and I were made for one another."

"We will hope so," returned Canon Ebley, who could no longer keep up a stern resistance in
the face of perfectly logical arguments and a witch of a girl purring over him and patting
his cheek. He would have given in with a fair grace but for the awful knowledge that his stern
spouse and the irate late fiance would arrive at any moment, and reproach him for his want
of strength.

At this juncture of the affair, Princess Urazov came forward, and said with a gracious smile:

"Now I think you and I should agree with each other, sir; I had just as great cause for surprise
as you had at the news of my brother's engagement to your niece, but I know and love him so
well that I did not question the wisdom of his choice. And as you know and love your niece,
can we not agree to try and make them happy together by giving them our blessing? After all,
it is no crime for two young people to love each other!" and she put out her hands, which Canon
Ebley, who was, after all, longing for peace, was obliged to take. Then with a charm and dignity
that he was forced to admire, she drew him to the pair and placed his hand on their clasped
hands, and her own over it.

"See," she said, "Sasha and Stella, we both wish you all happiness and joy--is it not so?"

And Canon Ebley was constrained to murmur, "Yes."

At this instant the door was opened violently, and the Aunt Caroline followed by the Reverend
Eustace Medlicott burst into the room, brushing aside the frightened waiter, who would have
prevented them; then they stopped dead short, petrified with astonishment, and before she could
prevent herself, Stella had pealed a silvery laugh, while she rushed forward and affectionately
kissed her aunt.

"Dear Aunt Caroline," she said. "Uncle Erasmus understands quite, and has given us his blessing,
so won't you, too?" An uncle of the same was Count Joseph S., born 12.
Aug. 1804, died 5th April 1859 in Mechelen, known by the Foundation of the Bonifaciusvereins (Sd).
The founder of the arterial branches was Count Christian Günther S., died 22nd June 1765 a Danish
privy known as the father of the poet and Earl Christian Friedrich Leopold P. S. The line-Roßla,
its possessions in Prussia, the Grand Duchy of Hesse and Anhalt be 300 sq km, is currently by
Count Botho August Karl, professional gentleman in Prussia and Hesse, born
 And if my niece still persists in
bringing shame upon us all I must beg you to conduct me back to our hotel-- I wash my hands
of her and shall no longer own her as my sister's child, come" Have you seen the golden snake, Mr. Anselm? said the Archivarius Lindhorst. Oh God, yes! replied
the student, and the lovely lovely Serpentina. Still! continued Archivarius Lindhorst away, enough for
today! Incidentally, you can even if you do decide to to work with me to see my daughter often
enough, or rather, I would want the true Give pleasure, if you keep at work pretty good, that is,
with the largest Accuracy and purity of each copy characters.
 But I, for my part, wish
to state now, in the presence of everyone, that if Miss Rawson can assure me she has made this
choice of her own free will, and because she loves this gentleman--" here there was a break
in the tones--"I can have nothing further to say and will give her back her freedom and make
my retreat." From there he reported 1866
to July 1870 in-depth, highly informed analysis of the German military system to Paris which the
emperor of the war against Germany would have had to stop when they duly appreciated would have been.
They were after the 4th You will feel with me, I am sure, that our engagement was always a mistake and now
won't you be friends?" He was It is
now clear that he meant only resistant to Veronica, so that the form which to him yesterday appeared
in the blue room, and Veronica just been fantastic, and that the forecast written by the marriage
of the salamander and the green snake's only him, no way but had been told. He was surprised himself
about his dreams and wrote them only by his love for Veronica exalted state of mind, and working
at the Archivarius Lindhorst to, in its rooms, besides, there are still so strangely intoxicating fragrance.
He was warmly laugh at the great imagination, being in love with a small snake and a comfortably
installed to keep secret Archivarius for a salamander.


And when Count Roumovski clasped his newly made bride in his arms, he whispered with a tenderly
sly smile:

"At last, sweetheart, there are no barriers, and I can show you that I am at least not as cold
as ice!"

THE END

