  Now, for a voyage and land journey of four months, the Nile is
  known, in addition to the part f the stream that is in Egypt; for,
  upon computation, so many months are known to be spent by a
  person who travels from Elephantine to the Automoli.  This river
  flows from the west and the setting of the sun; but beyond this no
  one is able to speak with certainty, for the rest of the country
  is desert by reason of the excessive heat.  But I have heard the
  following account from certain Cyrenaeans, who say that they went
  to the oracle of Ammon, and had a conversation with Etearchus, King
  of the Ammonians, and that, among other subjects, they happened to
  discourse about the Nile--that nobody knew its sources; whereupon
  Etearchus said that certain Nasamonians once came to him--this
  nation is Lybian, and inhabits the Syrtis, and the country for no
  great distance eastward of the Syrtis--and that when these
  Nasamonians arrived, and were asked if they could give any
  further formation touching the deserts of Libya, they answered,
  that there were some daring youths amongst them, sons of powerful
  men; and that they, having reached man's estate, formed many
  other extravagant plans, and, moreover, chose five of their number
  by lot to explore the deserts of Libya, to see if they could make
  any further discovery than those who had penetrated the farthest.
  (For, as respects the parts of Libya along the Northern Sea,
  beginning from Egypt to the promontory of Solois, where is the
  extremity of Libya, Libyans and various nations of Libyans reach
  all along it, except those parts which are occupied by Grecians
  and Phoenicians; but as respects the parts above the sea, and
  those nations which reach down to the sea, in the upper parts
  Libya is infested by wild beasts; and all beyond that is sand,
  dreadfully short of water, and utterly desolate.)  They further
  related, "that when the young men deputed by their companions
  set out, well furnished with water and provisions, they passed
  first through the inhabited country; and having traversed this,
  they came to the region infested by wild beasts; and after this
  they crossed the desert, making their way towards the west; and
  when they had traversed much sandy ground, during a journey of
  many days, they at length saw some trees growing in a plain; and
  that they approached and began to gather the fruit that grew on
  the trees; and while they were gathering, some diminutive men,
  less than men of middle stature, came up, and having seized them
  carried them away; and that the Nasamonians did not at all understand
  their language, nor those who carried them off the language of
  the Nasamonians.  However, they conducted them through vast
  morasses, and when they had passed these, they came to a city in
  which all the inhabitants were of the same size as their conductors,
  and black in colour: and by the city flowed a great river, running
  from the west to the east, and that crocodiles were seen in it."
  Thus far I have set forth the account of Etearchus the Ammonian;
  to which may be added, as the Cyrenaeans assured me, "that he said
  the Nasamonians all returned safe to their own country, and that
  the men whom they came to were all necromancers."  Etearchus also
  conjectured that this river, which flows by their city, is the Nile;
  and reason so evinces: for the Nile flows from Libya, and intersects
  it in the middle; and (as I conjecture, inferring things unknown
  from things known) it sets out from a point corresponding with the
  Ister.  For the Ister, beginning from the Celts, and the city of
  Pyrene, divides Europe in its course; but the Celts are beyond
  the pillars of Hercules, and border on the territories of the
  Cynesians, who lie in the extremity of Europe to the westward;
  and the Ister terminates by flowing through all Europe into the
  Euxine Sea, where a Milesian colony is settled in Istria.  Now
  the Ister, as it flows through a well-peopled country, is generally
  known; but no one is able to speak about the sources of the Nile,
  because Libya, through which it flows, is uninhabited and desolate.
  Respecting this stream, therefore, as far as I was able to reach by
  inquiry, I have already spoken.  It however discharges itself into
  Egypt; and Egypt lies, as near as may be, opposite to the
  mountains of Cilicia; from whence to Sinope, on the Euxine Sea,
  is a five days' journey in a straight line to an active man; and
  Sinope is opposite to the Ister, where it discharges itself into
  the sea.  So I think that the Nile, traversing the whole of Libya,
  may be properly compared with the Ister.  Such, then, is the
  account that I am able to give respecting the Nile.
***
<end of Herodotus's account)
***

2.  Webb's River must be traced to its connection with some portion of the old Nile.

When these two things have been accomplished, then, and not till then, can the mystery of the
Nile be explained.  The two countries through which the marvellous lacustrine river, the Lualaba,
flows, with its manifold lakes and broad expanse of water, are Rua (the Uruwwa of Speke) and
Manyuema.  For the first time Europe is made aware that between the Tanganika and the known
sources of the Congo there exist teeming millions of the negro race, who never saw, or heard
of the white people who make such a noisy and busy stir outside of Africa.  Upon the minds
of those who had the good fortune to see the first specimen of these remarkable white races
in Dr. Livingstone, he seems to have made a favourable impression, though, through misunderstanding
his object, and coupling him with the Arabs, who make horrible work there, his life was sought
after more than once.  These two extensive countries, Rua and Manyuema, are populated by true
heathens, governed, not as the sovereignties of Karagwah, Urundi, and Uganda, by despotic kings,
but each village by its own sultan or lord.  Thirty miles outside of their own immediate settlements,
the most intelligent of these small chiefs seem to know nothing.  Thirty miles from the Lualaba,
there were but few people who had ever heard of the great river.  Such ignorance among the
natives of their own country naturally increased the labours of Livingstone.  Compared with
these, all tribes and nations in Africa with whom Livingstone came in contact may be deemed
civilized, yet, in the arts of home manufacture, these wild people of Manyuema were far superior
to any he had seen.  Where other tribes and nations contented themselves with hides and skins
of animals thrown negligently over their shoulders, the people of Manyuema manufactured a cloth
from fine grass, which may favorably compare with the finest grass cloth of India.  They also
know the art of dy/e/ing them in various colours--black, yellow, and purple.  The Wangwana,
or freed-men of Zanzibar, struck with the beauty of the fabric, eagerly exchange their cotton
cloths for fine grass cloth; and on almost every black man from Manyuema I have seen this native
cloth converted into elegantly made damirs (Arabic)--short jackets.  These countries are also
very rich in ivory. The fever for going to Manyuema to exchange tawdry beads for its precious
tusks is of the same kind as that which impelled men to go to the gulches and placers of California,
Colorado, Montana, and Idaho; after nuggets to Australia, and diamonds to Cape Colony. Manyuema
is at present the El Dorado of the Arab and the Wamrima tribes.  It is only about four years
since that the first Arab returned from Manyuema, with such wealth of ivory, and reports about
the fabulous quantities found there, that ever since the old beaten tracks of Karagwah, Uganda,
Ufipa, and Marungu have been comparatively deserted.  The people of Manyuema, ignorant of the
value of the precious article, reared their huts upon ivory stanchions.  Ivory pillars were
common sights in Manyuema, and, hearing of these, one can no longer, wonder at the ivory palace
of Solomon.  For generations they have used ivory tusks as door-posts and supports to the eaves,
until they had become perfectly rotten and worthless.  But the advent of the Arabs soon taught
them the value of the article.  It has now risen considerably in price, though still fabulously
cheap.  At Zanzibar the value of ivory per frasilah of 35 lbs. weight is from $50 to $60, according
to its quality.  In Unyanyembe it is about $1-10 per pound, but in Manyuema, it may be purchased
for from half a cent to 14 cent's worth of copper per pound of ivory.  The Arabs, however,
have the knack of spoiling markets by their rapacity and cruelty.  With muskets, a small party
of Arabs is invincible against such people as those of Manyuema, who, until lately, never heard
the sound of a gun.  The discharge of a musket inspires mortal terror in them, and it is almost
impossible to induce them to face the muzzle of a gun.  They believe that the Arabs have stolen
the lightning, and that against such people the bow and arrow can have little effect.  They
are by no means devoid of courage, and they have often declared that, were it not for the guns,
not one Arab would leave the country alive; this tends to prove that they would willingly engage
in fight with the strangers who had made themselves so detestable, were it not that the startling
explosion of gunpowder inspires them with terror.

Into what country soever the Arabs enter, they contrive to render their name and race abominated.
But the mainspring of it all is not the Arab's nature, colour, or name, but simply the slave-trade.
So long as the slave-trade is permitted to be kept up at Zanzibar, so long will these otherwise
enterprising people, the Arabs, kindle gainst them the hatred of the natives throughout Africa.

On the main line of travel from Zanzibar into the interior of Africa these acts of cruelty
are unknown, for the very good reason that the natives having been armed with guns, and taught
how to use those weapons, are by no means loth to do so whenever an opportunity presents itself.
When, too late, they have perceived their folly in selling guns to the natives, the Arabs now
begin to vow vengeance on the person who will in future sell a gun to a native.  But they are
all guilty of the same mistake, and it is strange they did not perceive that it was folly when
they were doing so.

In former days the Arab, when protected by his slave escort, armed with guns, could travel
through Useguhha, Urori, Ukonongo, Ufipa, Karagwah, Unyoro, and Uganda, with only a stick in
his hand; now, however, it is impossible for him or any one else to do so.  Every step he takes,
armed or unarmed, is fraught with danger.  The Waseguhha, near the coast, detain him, and demand
the tribute, or give him the option of war; entering Ugogo, he is subjected every day to the
same oppressive demand, or to the fearful alternative. The Wanyamwezi also show their readiness
to take the same advantage; the road to Karagwah is besieged with difficulties; the terrible
Mirambo stands in the way, defeats their combined forces with ease, and makes raids even to
the doors of their houses in Unyanyembe; and should they succeed in passing Mirambo, a chief--Swaruru--
stands before them who demands tribute by the bale, and against whom it is useless to contend.

