At the time of the receipt of Prince Max's note by the State Department, on October 5, 1918,
the President was in New York, staying at the Waldorf- Astoria, preparatory to attending a
concert given by the Royal Italian Grenadiers. A message from the Army Intelligence Department,
conveyed to me by General Churchill, at the Knickerbocker Hotel, in New York, where I was staying,
was the first word we had of Germany's desire for an armistice. General Churchill read me the
German proposal over the 'phone and I carried it to the President, who was in conference with
Colonel House at the Waldorf. The offer of Germany was so frank and unequivocal in seeming
to meet the terms of the President's formal proposals of peace, that when Colonel House read
it to the President, he turned and said: "This means the end of the war." When I was interrogated
as to my opinion, I replied that, while the German offer of peace seemed to be genuine, in
my opinion no offer from Germany could be considered that bore the Hohenzollern-Hapsburg brand.
For a moment this seemed to irritate the President, and he said: "But, at least, we are bound
to consider in the most serious way any offer of Germany which is practically an acceptance
of my proposals of peace." There our first discussion regarding the German peace offer ended.

At the conclusion of this talk I was invited to take dinner with the President and Colonel
House and with the members of the President's family, but the matter of the note which we had
just received weighed so heavily upon me that my digestive apparatus was not in good working
order, and yet the President was seemingly unmindful of it, and refused to permit the evening
to be interfered with because of the note, attending the concert and apparently enjoying every
minute of the evening, and applauding the speeches that were made by the gentlemen who addressed
us.

After the concert began, I left the Presidential box and, following a habit I had acquired
since coming to the Executive offices, I conferred with the newspaper men in our party, endeavouring
to obtain from them, without expressing any personal opinion of my own, just how they felt
toward the terms proposed in the Max note. I then called up the State Department and discussed
the note with Mr. Polk, expressing the same opinion to him that I had already expressed to
the President, to the effect that we could not accept a German offer which came to us under
the auspices of the Hohenzollerns. Upon the conclusion of the concert, we left the Metropolitan
Opera House, I accompanying the President to the Waldorf. As I took my place in the automobile,
the President leaned over to Mrs. Wilson and whispered to her the news of the receipt of the
German note. Then, turning to me, he said: "Have you had any new reaction on the note since
I last talked with you?" I told him I had not, but that what I had learned since talking with
him earlier in the evening had only confirmed me in the opinion that I had already expressed,
that it would not be right or safe for us to accept the German proposals. When we arrived at
the Waldorf it was 12:30 A. M. and the President asked me to his rooms, and there, for an hour
and a half, we indulged in a long discussion of the German offer. As was usual with the President
in all these important matters, his mind was, to use his own phrase, "open and to let."

I emphasized the idea that we could not consider a peace proposal in which the Kaiser and his
brood played a part, and that the only proffer we could consider must come from the German
people themselves; that in his Mexican policy he had proclaimed the doctrine that no ruler
who came to power by murder or assassination would ever receive the recognition of the United
States; that we must broaden the morality which underlay this policy, and by our attitude say
to the European rulers who started this war, that guilt is personal and that until they had
purged themselves from the responsibility of war, we could not consider any terms of peace
that came through them.

The next day the President left for Cleveland Dodge's home on the Hudson, with Colonel House
and Doctor Grayson. I remained in New York at the Knickerbocker Hotel, busily engaged in poring
over the newspaper files to find out what the editorial attitude of the country was toward
the German proposal of peace, and in preparing a brief on the whole matter for the President's
consideration. Before Colonel House left, I again impressed upon him my view of the note and
my conviction that it would be a disastrous blunder for us to accept it.

The President returned to Washington in the early afternoon, Colonel House accompanying him.
I was eager and anxious to have another talk with him and was given an opportunity while in
the President's compartment in the train on our way back to Washington. As I walked into the
compartment, the President was conferring with Colonel House, and as I took a seat, the President
asked me if I still felt that the German proposal should be rejected. I replied, that, if anything,
I was stronger in the judgment I had already expressed. He said: "But it is not an easy matter
to turn away from an offer like this. There is no doubt that the form of it may be open to
objection, but substantially it represents the wishes of the German people, even though the
medium through which it may be conveyed is an odious and hateful one, but I must make up my
own mind on this and I must not be held off from an acceptance by any feeling of criticism
that may come my way. The gentlemen in the Army who talk about going to Berlin and taking it
by force are foolish. It would cost a million American lives to accomplish it, and what lies
in my thoughts now is this: If we can accept this offer, the war will be at an end, for Germany
cannot begin a new one, and thus we would save a great deal of bloodshed."

I remember, as I pointed out to him the disappointment of the people were he to accept the
German offer, he said: "If I think it is right to accept it, I shall do so regardless of consequences.
As for myself, I can go down in a cyclone cellar and write poetry the rest of my days, if necessary."
He called my attention to the fact that John Jay, who negotiated the famous treaty with Great
Britain, was burned in effigy and Alexander Hamilton was stoned while defending the Jay Treaty
on the steps of the Treasury Building in New York City. I pointed out to him that there was
no comparison between the two situations; that our case was already made up and that to retreat
now and accept this proposal would be to leave intact the hateful dynasty that had brought
on the war.

As was his custom and habit, he was considering all the facts and every viewpoint before he
finally took the inevitable step.

Never before was the bigness of the President shown better than in this discussion; never was
he more open-minded or more anxious to obtain all the facts in the grave situation with which
he was called upon to deal. In the action upon which his mind was now at work he was not thinking
of himself or of its effect upon his own political fortunes. All through the discussion one
could easily see the passionate desire of the man to bring this bloody thing of war honourably
to an end.

Mr. Edward N. Hurley furnishes me with a characteristic anecdote connected with a session of
the War Conference Board, which Mr. Hurley calls "one of the most historic conferences ever
held at the White House."

"The question," says Mr. Hurley, "was whether the President would be justified in agreeing
to an armistice. Many people throughout the country were demanding an insistence upon unconditional
surrender. Very little news was coming from abroad." Mr. Hurley says that the President met
the Conference Board with the statement: "Gentlemen, I should like to get an expression from
each man as to what he thinks we should or should not do regarding an unconditional surrender
or an armistice." Mr. Hurley says that "every man at the meeting except one was in favour of
an armistice." After the President had ascertained the opinpn of each he said in a quiet way:
"I have drawn up a tentative note to Germany which I should like to submit for your approval."
After the paper had been passed Around one member of the Board said: "Mr. President, I think
it would be better politics if you were to change this paragraph"--indicating a particular
paragraph in the document. The President replied, in what Mr. Hurley calls "a slow and deliberate
manner": "I am not dealing in politics, I am dealing in human lives."

While the President was engaged in conference with Colonel House, I addressed a letter to him,
as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    October 8, 1918.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    I do not know what your attitude is toward the late German and
    Austrian offers. They append, the, same, ministrant, citizenry. Thither, the
    first been fortunate to the worst, thoughtless, of community to pupil into they
    unitedly, regulate, cohort.

    
    Proletarian of battleground will be done ne'er in inquire for
    implementation in participate shortly and activity. It is much conflict.
That has surpass into wash has been itself accelerate and ghetto-give.
It is a narrative "he thither and weepeth, precious, i merely, deliver
his package of him."***** REINFORCEMENTS as Association.

    Avery, Charleston, Element. Fullerene., twenty-three sphere with being,
    having been honor from organization. Connection is doing in. Activity,
    and adopter, which is yield among man. Collection, we had one,
    people. From twenty-three is say of period, ghetto. Metropolis; their
    adopter as stake bellum years. Others are kid of freeman, who know
    in period for subjugation. Unit are decrease in case of action
    are being choose in account. One scholar is official, Earth, he has demonstrate
    his constancy. Time has been the
    
    aspiration,
    
    friend genitor had some elective has
    
    been the attempt, these act, which have torment to juvenile have the
    genitor. Twenty, and have teach to vocation, shoal. Two workforce and
    female to survey. A have set at idiom might be win into resurvey,
    to membership of found-jobholder, they would-search from bahai in
coaching. Much have anneal low and separate themselves if they had
a resurvey.

    One has kindly tug his elective, of less or face. Beginning, whom firmly,
    empty. All who was to private manage themselves ill, Association.
H2o; what shall state fruitage would be?***** what our GRADUATES
do--.

    
    
    Pres. Award, old. Rpm. I insist of the that great Mr. Herod, Abbeville,
    Lanthanum. ever, is directly. He come as Venizelos as who AR to Orleans.

    He had been wear that him turn activity. He get he ask for "supervisor,"
    being ignorant. He was acknowledge outside class. Title.
    
    Herod was not brilliant, he was faithful. He had practical. His male-auditor.
    He of all. We all win beside him as he travel i away his being-activity.
    Title. Herod. Decline. He was make. He has go both and achiever
    has been besides. Communicator. Herod. He. He meet of metropolis, of Academy and civilian,
    he had crossfire about Title. Herod. The workforce. They confirm he had
calibrate away his protestant and had done ever with group, he had
foretell the group.

    Title. Parsimony; has a industrialism. Activity. There is the affect, slowly be
    owing of the male. There is a to discourage in humiliation. There
    are same alumnus are doing the
    
    wash.***** Schoolhouse. Academician. Charlemagne. SCOTT, Law. I was model
    to area, trot-side, slip, education. My drive, place, world, unit, speech,
    substance, americanism, all were familiar, me.'period-unhealthiness,
    "Deity," engineering. Silence, me, person who have been really through
country. Four, merely, whistle: "Mee, teez, side-bertee, we. Realty.
Site-greem, enfranchisement."

    
    
    No one. I had leave my people. Its atmosphere, worship, "day" it had
postdate from rima of junior and girl, whom had anticipate. Sojourn, woman,
girl, alcalde, me believe they had form to opus, "chute-the-chute,"
access.

    

We unfold the Santurce, US was the juvenile? How again they get it, home. Barely arrive: "Rallying,"
"Streamer," and "process to GA." They were the support. One, music;
they state me was "borinquen," opus. Building, US, we soothe borinquen,
one woman give us, that come over shoal, for expression and aura, have
reiterate all potential nothing. Hitherto. US. Section-love son and
same than a rest. Of juvenile whistle "Christ populate me," and pick.

    
      

    Best come "Christ enjoy the Child" and same. Handbook, english, of ammunition,
the. For intend, about: "you object me say them was not, region."

    Porto the anthem unfold the message and Handbook. Section, David as
the male, face, element, existence.

    
    
    The twenty-position. We were afraid. But they did not, not one, we. The
    state me that they desire their bairn would about to Inhabitant, of babu with
    them was state a matter. Time, area, Handbook. I establish that our
    baby at anima-power. They do the as they. They had been rinse to analyze
    down forte, hub, affection, friend. They are
    
    quick-project
    
    and feeling. "implement-for-it-iveness."
    

    Most quiet, clip; the frequent and
    
    off. Of act in form to plot. But plenty and soul, among academy. Far what
    we were doing for them would intensely admire nothing on do in juvenile
    state in academy. They miss the Inhabitant. To rag there was these command,
    disposal themselves worse and wage. Custom to analyze about, to ritual
    put of consciousness-certainty. To develop to work, anima-dominance, they
    bask and atmosphere. Hasty exercise have teach from publication
    in academy, consciousness-detail.

Bairn,
    appropriation, peseta, equivalent nations, rag, they were give
    to they. Engineering. They had to be prompt firmly, that they become
    the unconstipated and look to gain to conductor. Affection, every last,
    equally. Stitching-category, coloured, "him state a fee,"-- as
    we state them--. Pointer.
    

    They did not break the breechcloth, they larn about stitch, mechanism,
    and had prize worse the activity. Every good than the teaching? Each
    ego-stature-- which such-- that several who look the uncontaminating
    and i must have clothing and situation
    
    and boothose. Moiety, region. Subdivision must gain the seven, and
    nine-rank as adopter and kid, the miss and amazon, vesture, frequently have
    bareheaded and soiled nations. Alarm, undoubtedly, uncontaminating.
    Barefooted would invent. Shoal, for Weekday or Dominicus, them could
be acknowledge of place-workwear. Apparel and the party or leisure.

    How a multiplication,
      appear away present, often because to anticipate workwear, garment,
because place.

About, they miss them, him. Anima-detail was not authority, it was subsequently worthless than the
authority. Building-annum in their exert. Does not the transaction? But we have been declaim
about schoolhouse to statement. We had them, friend. By first, big, there were great. Paradigm-employment
were not as discouraging as the example i have go.

Bairn were quick and "pluck down" English. To rear, had the subsequently than must be Creole. They were
patient, as it. Hitherto assoil or was larn in evaluate him about themselves. Them. To-- where another
encyclical, whose phone, specific, and there are some-- was thus come. But cognize what go a
text, missive had that trying.

Mostly, they did, so, we had many.

Were barely have done much disheartenment?

Hostess of them. Few lesser. Them.

    It. People, was the doorway, place, seek. It was cool season-- how
    uneven nucleotide!--. Of all was the appearance, tomorrow, one-fifth,
    one-one-fourth, one-tierce. There was the condition. "catarros" or
    home. Nonoccurrence, "luau" religion, Juan, vesture, monsoon, anything,
    and nothing. And loudly, them take activity. But to do anything thither or summons.
    They act they feed, they. Example, of volume, i is few nations,
    teaching. Did the academy give? Did we was lived of forfeit and poverty?
    At we have leave to we had done by baby. Her understand
    
    some than her have spanish lingua would seed. Day, world, them, bad-pass,
    educator, Device, Mr, they had done; of beg, scat down their feature,
rise. Plough.

What would the output be? Personally thank sowing is done and change.*****
instead simply pulp teacher are leave activity.

They have been idle, Dominicus-academy and enthusiasm.


    I think these speeches will give you an opportunity some time in
    September or October frankly to state just what your attitude is
    toward the coming campaign, and thus lay before the country what the
    Republicans hope to gain by bringing about the election of a
    Republican Congress. I would suggest that some man of distinction in
    the country write you a letter, calling your attention to partisan
    speeches of this character, emphasizing the parts I have mentioned,
    and ask your opinion with reference to the plan of the Republican
    party to regain power. In other words, we ought to accept these
    speeches charging incompetency and inefficiency as a challenge, and
    call the attention of the country to the fact that the leadership of
    the Republican party is still reactionary and standpat, laying
    particular emphasis on what the effect in Europe would be of a divided
    leadership at this time. I think a letter along the lines of the
    Indiana platform which I suggested a few weeks ago would carry to the
    country just the impression we ought to make. This letter should be
    issued, in my opinion, some time in September or October.

While it would seem from a reading of my confidential letter to the President that we were
engaged in preparing the way for an appeal, we were simply doing what other administrations
had done.

Some time after this the President communicated with Colonel House, and when I next discussed
the matter with the President, he informed me that he and Colonel House had finally agreed
that the thing to do was frankly to come out without preliminaries of any kind and boldly ask
for the election of a Democratic Congress. I told him that I thought the method I had proposed
for bringing him into the discussion was one that would be most effective and would cause least
resentment; but he was firm in his resolve to follow the course he finally pursued. He was
of the opinion that this was the open and honourable way to ask for what he thought would be
a vote of confidence in his administration.

It has often been stated that in this matter the President had acted upon the advice of Postmaster
General Burleson, and many of those individuals throughout the country who criticized the President's
appeal, pointed an accusing finger at General Burleson and held him responsible for what they
said were the evil consequences of this ill-considered action. Simply by way of explanation,
it can be truthfully said, in fairness to General Burleson, that he had nothing to do with
the appeal and that he had never been consulted about it.

These facts are now related by me not by way of apology for what the President did, for in
openly appealing to the country he had many honourable precedents, of which the gentlemen who
criticized him were evidently ignorant. As Mr. George Creel, in his book, "The War, the World,
and Wilson," says: "In various elections George Washington pleaded for 'united leadership,'
and Lincoln specifically urged upon the people the unwisdom of 'swapping horses in midstream.'"

In a paragraph in Herndon's "Life of Lincoln," I find the following appeal:

    He did his duty as President, and rested secure in the belief that he
    would be reflected whatever might be done for or against him. The
    importance of retaining Indiana in the column of Republican States was
    not to be overlooked. How the President viewed it, and how he proposed
    to secure the vote of the state is shown in the following letter
    written to General Sherman:

    Executive Mansion,
    Washington, September 19, 1864.

    MAJOR GENERAL SHERMAN:

    The State election of Indiana occurs on the 11th of October and the
    loss of it to the friends of the Government would go far toward losing
    the whole Union cause. The bad effect upon the November election, and
    especially the giving the State Government to those who will oppose
    the war in every possible way, are too much to risk if it can be
    avoided. The draft proceeds, notwithstanding its strong tendency to
    lose us the State. Indiana is the only important State voting in
    October whose soldiers cannot vote in the field. Anything you can
    safely do to let her soldiers or any part of them go home and vote at
    the State election will be greatly in point. They need not remain for
    the Presidential election, but may return to you at once. This is in
    no sense an order, but is merely intended to impress you with the
    importance to the army itself of your doing all you safely can,
    yourself being the judge of what you can safely do.

    Yours truly,
      A. LINCOLN.

Mr. Creel shows that the precedents established by Washington and Lincoln were followed by
Presidents McKinley, Roosevelt, and Taft:

    In a speech delivered at Boone, Iowa, October 11, 1898, President
    McKinley pleaded for a Republican Congress in these words:

    This is no time for divided councils. If I would have you remember
    anything I have said in these desultory remarks, it would be to
    remember at this critical hour in the nation's history we must not be
    divided. The triumphs of the war are yet to be written in the articles
    of peace.

In the same year Theodore Roosevelt, argued for a Republican Congress as follows:

    Remember that whether you will or not, your votes this year will be
    viewed by the nations of Europe from one standpoint only. They will
    draw no fine distinctions. A refusal to sustain the President this
    year will, in their eyes, be read as a refusal to sustain the war and
    to sustain the efforts of our peace commission to secure the fruit of
    war. Such a refusal may not inconceivably bring about a rupture of the
    peace negotiations. It will give heart to our defeated antagonists; it
    will make possible the interference of those doubtful neutral nations
    who in this struggle have wished us ill.

Ex-President Benjamin Harrison besought the people to "stand behind the President," saying:

    If the word goes forth that the people of the United States are
    standing solidly behind the President, the task of the peace
    commissioners will be easy, but if there is a break in the ranks--if
    the Democrats score a telling victory, if Democratic Senators,
    Congressmen, and governors are elected--Spain will see in it a gleam
    of hope, she will take fresh hope, and a renewal of hostilities, more
    war, may be necessary to secure to us what we have already won.

When Colonel Roosevelt himself became President, he followed the usual precedent without even
the excuse of a war emergency. In a letter dated August 18, 1906, to James E. Watson, he wrote:

    If there were only partisan issues involved in this contest, I should
    hesitate to say anything publicly in reference thereto. But I do not
    feel that such is the case. On the contrary, I feel that all good
    citizens who have the welfare of America at heart should appreciate
    the immense amount that has been accomplished by the present Congress,
    organized as it is, and the urgent need of keeping this organization
    in power. To change the leadership and organization of the House at
    this time means to bring confusion to those who have been successfully
    engaged in the steady working out of a great and comprehensive scheme
    for the betterment of our social, industrial, and civic conditions.
    Such a change would substitute a purposeless confusion, a violent and
    hurtful oscillation between the positions of the extreme radical and
    the extreme reactionary for the present orderly progress along the
    lines of a carefully thought out policy.

Is it not clear in the light of the events that followed the repudiation of the President and
his administration in 1918 that he was justified by reason of the unusual circumstances of
a great world war, in asking for a "team" that would work in cooperation with him? Some of
those who most indignantly criticized him for his partisan appeal attacked him and the measures
which he recommended for the peace of the world with a partisanship without parallel in the
history of party politics. Some who most bitterly condemned what he did gave the most emphatic
proof that what he did was necessary. Nor can they honestly defend themselves by saying that
their partisan attacks on the treaty were justifiable reprisal. Before he ever made his appeal
they were doing all in their power to undermine his influence at home and abroad, and he knew
it. The appeal was no reflection on Republicans as such, nor any minimization of the heroic
service rendered in the war by Republicans and Democrats alike in the fighting and civilian
services, but the President knew that Republicans organized in party opposition in Congress
would not assist but obstruct the processes of peace-making under his leadership. And all the
world now knows that his judgment was correct. It will be interesting to read the President's
appeal to the country, written by him on the typewriter:

    My Fellow Countrymen: The Congressional elections are at hand. They
    occur in the most critical period our country has ever faced or is
    likely to face in our time. If you have approved of my leadership and
    wish me to continue to be your unembarrassed spokesman in affairs at
    home and abroad, I earnestly beg that you will express yourself
    unmistakably to that effect by returning a Democratic majority to both
    the Senate and the House of Representatives. I am your servant and
    will accept your judgment without cavil, but my power to administer
    the great trust assigned me by the Constitution would be seriously
    impaired should your judgment be adverse, and I must frankly tell you
    so because so many critical issues depend upon your verdict. No
    scruple of taste must in grim times like these be allowed to stand in
    the way of speaking the plain truth.

    I have no thought of suggesting that any political party is paramount
    in matters of patriotism. I feel too keenly the sacrifices which have
    been made in this war by all our citizens, irrespective of party
    affiliations, to harbour such an idea. I mean only that the
    difficulties and delicacies of our present task are of a sort that
    makes it imperatively necessary that the nation should give its
    undivided support to the Government under a unified leadership, and
    that a Republican Congress would divide the leadership.

    The leaders of the minority in the present Congress have
    unquestionably been pro-war, but they have been anti-Administration.
    At almost every turn, since we entered the war, they have sought to
    take the choice of policy and the conduct of the war out of my hands
    and put it under the control of instrumentalities of their own
    choosing. This is no time either for divided counsel or for divided
    leadership. Unity of command is as necessary now in civil action as it
    is upon the field of battle. If the control of the House and Senate
    should be taken away from the party now in power, an opposing majority
    could assume control of legislation and oblige all action to be taken
    amidst contest and obstruction.

    The return of a Republican majority to either House of the Congress
    would, moreover, certainly be interpreted on the other side of the
    water as a repudiation of my leadership. Spokesmen of the Republican
    party are urging you to elect a Republican Congress in order to back
    up and support the President, but even if they should in this way
    impose upon some credulous voters on this side of the water, they
    would impose on no one on the other side. It is well understood there
    as well as here that the Republican leaders desire not so much to
    support the President as to control him. The peoples of the Allied
    countries with whom we are associated against Germany are quite
    familiar with the significance of elections. They would find it very
    difficult to believe that the voters of the United States had chosen
    to support their President by electing to the Congress a majority
    controlled by those who are not in fact in sympathy with the attitude
    and action of the Administration.

    I need not tell you, my fellow countrymen, that I am asking your
    support not for my own sake or for the sake of a political party, but
    for the sake of the nation itself, in order that its inward unity of
    purpose may be evident to all the world. In ordinary times I would not
    feel at liberty to make such an appeal to you. In ordinary times
    divided counsels can be endured without permanent hurt to the country.
    But these are not ordinary times. If in these critical days it is your
    wish to sustain me with undivided minds, I beg that you will say so in
    a way which it will not be possible to misunderstand either here at
    home or among our associates on the other side of the sea. I submit my
    difficulties and my hopes to you.

In an address at the White House to members of the Democratic National Committee, delivered
February 28, 1919, which was never published, the President expressed his own feelings with
reference to the defeat of the Democratic party at the Congressional elections a few months
before. Discussing this defeat, he said:

    Personally, I am not in the least discouraged by the results of the
    last Congressional election. Any party which carries out through a
    long series of years a great progressive and constructive programme is
    sure to bring about a reaction, because while in the main the reforms
    that we have accomplished have been sound reforms, they have
    necessarily in the process of being made touched a great many definite
    interests in a way that distressed them, in a way that was counter to
    what they deemed their best and legitimate interests. So that there
    has been a process of adaptation in the process of change. There is
    nothing apparently to which the human mind is less hospitable than
    change, and in the business world that is particularly true because if
    you get in the habit of doing your business a particular way and are
    compelled to do it in a different way, you think that somebody in
    Washington does not understand business, and, therefore, there has
    been a perfectly natural reaction against the changes we have made in
    the public policies of the United States. In many instances, as in the
    banking and currency reform, the country is entirely satisfied with
    the wisdom and permanency of the change, but even there a great many
    interests have been disappointed and many of their plans have been
    prevented from being consummated. So that, there is that natural
    explanation. And then I do not think that we ought to conceal from
    ourselves the fact that not the whole body of our partisans are as
    cordial in the support of some of the things that we have done as they
    ought to be.

    You know that I heard a gentleman from one of the southern States say
    to his Senator (this gentleman was himself a member of the State
    Legislature)--he said to his Senator: "We have the advantage over you
    because we have no publication corresponding with the Congressional
    Record and all that is recorded in our state is the vote, and while
    you have always voted right we know what happened in the meantime
    because we read the Congressional Record." Now, with regard to a
    great many of our fellow partisans in Washington, the Congressional
    Record shows what happened between the beginning of the discussion
    and the final Vote, and our opponents were very busy in advertising
    what the Congressional Record disclosed. And to be perfectly plain,
    there was not in the minds of the country sufficient satisfactory
    evidence that we had supported some of the great things that they were
    interested in any better than the other fellows. The voting record was
    all right and the balance in our favour; but they can show a great
    many things that discount the final record of the vote.

    Now, I am in one sense an uncompromising partisan. Either a man must
    stand by his party or not. Either he has got to play the game or he
    has got to get out of the game, and I have no more sufferance for such
    a man than the country has. Not a bit. Some of them got exactly what
    was coming to them and I haven't any bowels of compassion for them.
    They did not support the things they pretended to support. And the
    country knew they didn't,--the country knew that the tone of the
    cloakroom and the tone of the voting were different tones. Now, I am
    perfectly willing to say that I think it is wise to judge of party
    loyalty by the cloakroom, and not by the vote and the cloakroom was
    not satisfactory. I am not meaning to imply that there was any kind of
    blameworthy insincerity in this. I am not assessing individuals. That
    is not fair. But in assessing the cause of our defeat we ought to be
    perfectly frank and admit that the country was not any more sure of us
    than it ought to be. So that we have got to convince it that the ranks
    have closed up and that the men who constitute those ranks are all on
    the war-path and mean the things they say and that the party
    professes. That is the main thing.

    Now, I think that can be accomplished by many processes.
    Unfortunately, the members of Congress have to live in Washington, and
    Washington is not a part of the United States. It is the most
    extraordinary thing I have ever known. If you stay here long enough
    you forget what the people of your own district are thinking about.
    There is one reason on the face of things. The wrong opinion is
    generally better organized than the right opinion. If some special
    interest has an impression that it wants to make on Congress it can
    get up thousands of letters with which to bombard its Senators and
    Representatives, and they get the impression that that is the opinion
    at home and they do not hear from the other fellow; and the
    consequence is that the unspoken and uninsisted-on views of the
    country, which are the views of the great majority, are not heard at
    this distance. If such an arrangement were feasible I think there
    ought to be a Constitutional provision that Congressmen and Senators
    ought to spend every other week at home and come back here and talk
    and vote after a fresh bath in the atmosphere of their home districts
    and the opinions of their home folks.

CHAPTER XXXVI

THE GREAT ADVENTURE

As we conferred together for the last time before the President left Washington for the other
side, I had never seen him look more weary or careworn. It was plain to me who had watched
him from day to day since the Armistice, that he felt most keenly the heavy responsibility
that now lay upon him of trying to bring permanent peace to the world. He was not unmindful
of the criticism that had been heaped upon him by his enemies on the Hill and throughout the
country. The only thing that distressed him, however, was the feeling that a portion of the
American people were of the opinion that, perhaps, in making the trip to Paris there lay back
of it a desire for self-exploitation, or, perhaps, the idea of garnering certain political
advantages to himself and his party. If one who held this ungenerous opinion could only have
come in contact with this greatly overworked man on the night of our final talk and could understand
the handsome, unselfish purpose that really lay behind his mission to France and could know
personally how he dreaded the whole business, he would quickly free himself of this opinion.
Discussing the object of the trip with me in his usually intimate way, he said: "Well, Tumulty,
this trip will either be the greatest success or the supremest tragedy in all history; but
I believe in a Divine Providence. If I did not have faith, I should go crazy. If I thought
that the direction of the affairs of this disordered world depended upon our finite intelligence,
I should not know how to reason my way to sanity; but it is my faith that no body of men however
they concert their power or their influence can defeat this great world enterprise, which after
all is the enterprise of Divine mercy, peace and good will."

As he spoke these fateful words, he clearly foresaw the difficulties and dangers and possible
tragedy of reaction and intrigue that would soon exert themselves in Paris, perhaps to outwit
him and if possible to prevent the consummation of the idea that lay so close to his heart:
that of setting up a concert of powers that would make for ever impossible a war such as we
had just passed through. Indeed, he was ready to risk everything--his own health, his own political
fortunes, his place in history, and his very life itself--for the great enterprise of peace.
"This intolerable thing must never happen again," he said.

No one more than Woodrow Wilson appreciated the tragedy of disappointment that might eventually
follow out of his efforts for peace, but he was willing to make any sacrifice to attain the
end he had so close to his heart.

He realized better than any one the great expectations of the American people. Discussing these
expectations with Mr. Creel, who was to accompany him, he said: "It is to America that the
whole world turns to-day, not only with its wrongs but with its hopes and grievances. The hungry
expect us to feed them, the homeless look to us for shelter, the sick of heart and body depend
upon us for cure. All of these expectations have in them the quality of terrible urgency. There
must be no delay. It has been so always. People will endure their tyrants for years, but they
tear their deliverers to pieces if a millennium is not created immediately. Yet, you know and
I know that these ancient wrongs, these present unhappinesses, are not to be remedied in a
day or with a wave of the hand. What I seem to see--with all my heart I hope that I am wrong--is
a tragedy of disappointment."

The President and I had often discussed the personnel of the Peace Commission before its announcement,
and I had taken the liberty of suggesting to the President the name of ex-Secretary of State
Elihu Root. The President appeared to be delighted with this suggestion and asked me to confer
with Secretary Lansing in regard to the matter. I conferred with Mr. Lansing, to whom the suggestion,
much to my surprise, met with hearty response. At this conference Mr. Lansing said that he
and the President were attempting to induce some members of the Supreme Court--I think it was
either Mr. Justice Day or Chief Justice White--to make the trip to Paris as one of the Commission;
but that they were informed that Chief Justice White was opposed to the selection of a Supreme
Court Judge to participate in any conference not connected with the usual judicial work of
the Supreme Court.

After this conference I left for New York, there to remain with my father who lay seriously
ill, and when I returned to the White House the President informed me that he and Mr. Lansing
had had a further conference with reference to the Root suggestion and that it was about concluded
that it would be inadvisable to make Mr. Root a member of the Commission. The President felt
that it would be unwise to take Mr. Root, fearing that the reputation which Mr. Root had gained
of being rather conservative, if not reactionary, would work a prejudice toward the Peace Commission
at the outset.

Mr. Taft's name was considered, but it was finally decided not to include him among the commissions
to accompany the President.

The personnel of the Commission, as finally constituted, has been much criticized, but the
President had what were for him convincing reasons for each selection: he had formed a high
opinion of Col. E. M. House's ability to judge clearly and dispassionately men and events;
Mr. Robert Lansing as Secretary of State was a natural choice; Mr. Henry White, a Republican
unembittered by partisanship, had had a life-long and honourable experience in diplomacy; General
Tasker Bliss was eminently qualified to advise in military matters, and was quite divorced
from the politics of either party. The President believed that these gentlemen would cooperate
with him loyally in a difficult task.

I quote from Mr. Creel:

    The truly important body--and this the President realized from the
    first--was the group of experts that went along with the Commission,
    the pick of the country's most famous specialists in finance, history,
    economics, international law, colonial questions, map-making, ethnic
    distinctions, and all those other matters that were to come up at the
    Peace Conference. They constituted the President's arsenal of facts,
    and even on board the George Washington, in the very first
    conference, he made clear his dependence upon them. "You are in truth,
    my advisers," he said, "for when I ask you for information I will have
    no way of checking it up, and must act upon it unquestioningly. We
    will be deluged with claims plausibly and convincingly presented. It
    will be your task to establish the truth or falsity of these claims
    out of your specialized knowledges, so that my positions may be taken
    fairly and intelligently."

    It was this expert advice that he depended upon and it was a well of
    information that never failed him. At the head of the financiers and
    economists were such men as Bernard Baruch, Herbert Hoover, Norman
    Davis, and Vance McCormick. As head of the War Industries Board, in
    many respects the most powerful of all the civil organizations called
    into being by the war, Mr. Baruch had won the respect and confidence
    of American business by his courage, honesty, and rare ability. At his
    side were such men as Frank W. Taussig, chairman of the Tariff
    Commission; Alex Legg, general manager of the International Harvester
    Company; and Charles McDowell, manager of the Fertilizer and Chemical
    departments of Armour & Co.--both men familiar with business
    conditions and customs in every country in the world; Leland Summers,
    an international mechanical engineer and an expert in manufacturing,
    chemicals, and steel; James C. Pennie, the international patent
    lawyer; Frederick Neilson and Chandler Anderson, authorities on
    international law; and various others of equal calibre.

    Mr. Hoover was aided and advised by the men who were his
    representatives in Europe throughout the war, and Mr. McCormick, head
    of the War Trade Board, gathered about him in Paris all of the men who
    had handled trade matters for him in the various countries of the
    world.

    Mr. Davis, representing the Treasury Department, had as his associates
    Mr. Thomas W. Lament, Mr. Albert Strauss, and Jeremiah Smith of
    Boston.

    Dr. Sidney E. Mezes, president of the College of the City of New York,
    went with the President at the head of a brilliant group of
    specialists, all of whom had been working for a year and more on the
    problems that would be presented at the Peace Conference. Among the
    more important may be mentioned: Prof. Charles H. Haskins, dean of the
    Graduate School of Harvard University, specialist on Alsace-Lorraine
    and Belgium; Dr. Isaiah Bowman, director of the American Geographical
    Society, general territorial specialist; Prof. Allyn A. Young, head of
    the Department of Economics at Cornell; George Louis Beer, formerly of
    Columbia, and an authority on colonial possessions; Prof. W. L.
    Westermann, head of the History Department of the University of
    Wisconsin and specialist on Turkey; R. H. Lord, professor of History
    at Harvard, specialist on Russia and Poland; Roland B. Dixon,
    professor of Ethnography at Harvard; Prof. Clive Day, head of the
    Department of Economics at Yale, specialist on the Balkans; W. E.
    Lunt, professor of History at Haverford College, specialist on
    northern Italy; Charles Seymour, professor of History at Yale,
    specialist on Austria-Hungary; Mark Jefferson, professor of Geography
    at Michigan State Normal, and Prof. James T. Shotwell, professor of
    History at Columbia. These groups were the President's real
    counsellors and advisers and there was not a day throughout the Peace
    Conference that he did not call upon them and depend upon them.

No man ever faced a more difficult or trying job than the President, when he embarked upon
the George Washington on his voyage to the other side. The adverse verdict rendered against
the President in the Congressional elections was mighty dispiriting. The growing bitterness
and hostility of the Republican leaders, and the hatred of the Germans throughout the country,
added more difficulties to an already trying situation. America had seemed to do everything
to weaken him at a time when united strength should have been behind him. Again I quote from
Mr. Creel:

    On November 27th, five days before the President's departure, Mr.
    Roosevelt had cried this message to Europe, plain intimation that the
    Republican majority in the Senate would support the Allies in any
    repudiation of the League of Nations and the Fourteen Points:

    "Our allies and our enemies and Mr. Wilson himself should all
    understand that Mr. Wilson has no authority whatever to speak for the
    American people at this time. His leadership has just been
    emphatically repudiated by them. The newly elected Congress comes far
    nearer than Mr. Wilson to having a right to speak the purposes of the
    American people at this moment. Mr. Wilson and his Fourteen Points and
    his four supplementary points and his five complementary points and
    all his utterances every which way have ceased to have any shadow of
    right to be accepted as expressive of the will of the American people.

    "He is President of the United States. He is a part of the treaty-
    making power; but he is only a part. If he acts in good faith to the
    American people, he will not claim on the other side of the water any
    representative capacity in himself to speak for the American people.
    He will say frankly that his personal leadership has been repudiated
    and that he now has merely the divided official leadership which he
    shares with the Senate."

    What Mr. Roosevelt did, in words as plain as his pen could marshal,
    was to inform the Allies that they were at liberty to disregard the
    President, the League of Nations, and the Fourteen Points, and that
    the Republican party would stand as a unit for as hard a peace as Foch
    chose to dictate.

As the President left his office on the night of his departure for New York, preparatory to
sailing for the other side, he turned to me and said: "Well, Tumulty, have you any suggestions
before I leave?" "None, my dear Governor," I replied, "except to bid you Godspeed on the great
journey." Then, coming closer to me, he said: "I shall rely upon you to keep me in touch with
the situation on this side of the water. I know I can trust you to give me an exact size-up
of the situation here. Remember, I shall be far away and what I will want is a frank estimate
from you of the state of public opinion on this side of the water. That is what I will find
myself most in need of. When you think I am putting my foot in it, please say so frankly. I
am afraid I shall not be able to rely upon much of the advice and suggestions I will get from
the other end."

Before the President left he had discussed with me the character of the Peace Conference, and
after his departure I kept him apprised by cable of opinion in this country. Appendix "A",
which contains this cabled correspondence shows how he welcomed information and suggestion.

As my duty held me in Washington, I am dependent upon others, especially Mr. Creel and Mr.
Ray Stannard Baker, a member of the President's official family, for a connected narrative
of events in Europe.

Speaking of his attitude in the trials that confronted the President on the other side, Mr.
Baker said:

    No one who really saw the President in action in Paris, saw what he
    did in those grilling months of struggle, fired at in front, sniped at
    from behind--and no one who saw what he had to do after he came home
    from Europe in meeting the great new problems which grew out of the
    war--will for a moment belittle the immensity of his task, or
    underrate his extraordinary endurance, energy, and courage.

    More than once, there in Paris, going up in the evening to see the
    President, I found him utterly worn out, exhausted, often one side of
    his face twitching with nervousness. No soldier ever went into battle
    with more enthusiasm, more aspiration, more devotion to a sacred cause
    than the President had when he came to Paris; but day after day in
    those months we saw him growing grayer and grayer, grimmer and
    grimmer, with the fighting lines deepening in his face.

    Here was a man 63 years old--a man always delicate in health. When he
    came to the White House in 1913, he was far from being well. His
    digestion was poor and he had a serious and painful case of neuritis
    in his shoulder. It was even the opinion of so great a physician as
    Dr. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia, that he could probably not
    complete his term and retain his health. And yet such was the iron
    self-discipline of the man and such was the daily watchful care of
    Doctor Grayson, that instead of gradually going down under the
    tremendous tasks of the Presidency in the most crowded moments of our
    national history, he steadily gained strength and working capacity,
    until in those months in Paris he literally worked everybody at the
    Peace Conference to a stand-still.

    It is so easy and cheap to judge people, even presidents, without
    knowing the problems they have to face. So much of the President's
    aloofness at Paris, so much of his unwillingness to expend energy upon
    unnecessary business, unnecessary conferences, unnecessary visiting--
    especially the visitors--was due directly to the determination to
    husband and expend his too limited energies upon tasks that seemed to
    him essential.

    As I say, he worked everybody at the Peace Conference to a standstill.
    He worked not only the American delegates, but the way he drove the
    leisurely diplomats of Europe was often shameful to see. Sometimes he
    would actually have two meetings going on at the same time. Once I
    found a meeting of the Council of the Big Four going on in his study,
    and a meeting of the financial and economic experts--twenty or thirty
    of them--in full session upstairs in the drawing room--and the
    President oscillating between the two.

    It was he who was always the driver, the initiator, at Paris: he
    worked longer hours, had more appointments, granted himself less
    recreation, than any other man, high or low, at the Peace Conference.
    For he was the central figure there. Everything headed up in him.

    Practically all of the meetings of the Council of Four were held in
    his study in the Place des Etats-Unis. This was the true capitol of
    the Peace Conference; here all the important questions were decided.
    Everyone who came to Paris upon any mission whatsoever aimed first of
    all at seeing the President. Representatives of the little,
    downtrodden nationalities of the earth--from eastern Europe, Asia, and
    Africa--thought that if they could get at the President, explain their
    pathetic ambitions, confess their troubles to him, all would be well.

While the President was struggling in Europe, his friends in America had cause for indignation
against the course adopted by the Republican obstructionists in the Senate, which course, they
saw, must have a serious if not fatal effect upon developments overseas. Occurrences on both
sides of the Atlantic became so closely interwoven that it is better not to separate the two
narratives, and as Mr. Creel, upon whose history I have already drawn, tells the story with
vigour and a true perception of the significance of events, I quote at length from him:

    The early days of February, 1919, were bright with promise. The
    European press, seeming to accept the President's leadership as
    unshakable, was more amiable in its tone, the bitterness bred by the
    decision as to the German colonies had abated. Fiume and the Saar
    Basin had taken discreet places in the background with other deferred
    questions, and the voice of French and English and Italian liberalism
    was heard again. On February 14th the President reported the first
    draft of the League constitution--a draft that expressed his
    principles without change--and it was confirmed amid acclaim. It was
    at this moment, unfortunately, that the President was compelled to
    return to the United States to sign certain bills, and for the
    information of the Senate he carried with him the Covenant as agreed
    upon by the Allies.

    We come now to a singularly shameful chapter in American history. At
    the time of the President's decision to go to Paris the chief point of
    attack by the Republican Senators was that such a "desertion of duty"
    would delay the work of government and hold back the entire programme
    of reconstruction. Yet when the President returned for the business of
    consideration and signature, the same Republican Senators united in a
    filibuster that permitted Congress to expire without the passage of a
    single appropriation bill. This exhibition of sheer malignance,
    entailing an ultimate of confusion and disaster, was not only approved
    by the Republican press, but actually applauded.

    The draft of the League Constitution was denounced even before its
    contents were known or explained. The bare fact that the document had
    proved acceptable to the British Empire aroused the instant antagonism
    of the "professional" Irish-Americans, the "professional" German-
    Americans, the "professional" Italian-Americans, and all those others
    whose political fortunes depended upon the persistence and
    accentuation of racial prejudices. Where one hyphen was scourged the
    year before a score of hyphens was now encouraged and approved. In
    Washington the President arranged a conference with the Senators and
    Representatives in charge of foreign relations, and laid the Covenant
    frankly before them for purposes of discussion and criticism. The
    attitude of the Republican Senators was one of sullenness and
    suspicion, Senator Lodge refusing to state his objections or to make a
    single recommendation. Others, however, pointed out that no express
    recognition was given to the Monroe Doctrine; that it was not
    expressly provided that the League should have no authority to act or
    express a judgment on matters of domestic policy; that the right to
    withdraw from the League was not expressly recognized; and that the
    constitutional right of the Congress to determine all questions of
    peace and war was not sufficiently safeguarded.

    The President, in answer, gave it as his opinion that these points
    were already covered satisfactorily in the Covenant, but that he would
    be glad to make the language more explicit, and entered a promise to
    this effect. Mr. Root and Mr. Taft were also furnished with copies of
    the Covenant and asked for their views and criticism, and upon receipt
    of them the President again gave assurance that every proposed change
    and clarification would be made upon his return to Paris. On March
    4th, immediately following these conferences, and the day before the
    sailing of the President, Senator Lodge rose in his place and led his
    Republican colleagues in a bold and open attack upon the League of
    Nations and the war aims of America. The following account of the
    proceedings is taken from the Congressional Record:

    Mr. Lodge: Mr. President, I desire to take only a moment of the time
    of the Senate. I wish to offer the resolution which I hold in my hand,
    a very brief one:

    Whereas under the Constitution it is a function of the Senate to
    advise and consent to, or dissent from, the ratification of any treaty
    of the United States, and no such treaty can become operative without
    the consent of the Senate expressed by the affirmative vote of two
    thirds of the Senators present; and

    Whereas owing to the victory of the arms of the United States and of
    the nations with whom it is associated, a Peace Conference was
    convened and is now in session at Paris for the purpose of settling
    the terms of peace; and

    Whereas a committee of the Conference has proposed a constitution for
    the League of Nations and the proposal is now before the Peace
    Conference for its consideration; Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate of the United States in the discharge of its
    constitutional duty of advice in regard to treaties, That it is the
    sense of the Senate that while it is their sincere desire that the
    nations of the world should unite to promote peace and general
    disarmament, the constitution of the League of Nations in the form now
    proposed to the Peace Conference should not be accepted by the United
    States; and be it

    Resolved further, That it is the sense of the Senate that the
    negotiations on the part of the United States should immediately be
    directed to the utmost expedition of the urgent business of
    negotiating peace terms with Germany satisfactory to the United States
    and the nations with whom the United States is associated in the war
    against the German Government, and that the proposal for a League of
    Nations to insure the permanent peace of the world should be then
    taken up for careful and serious consideration.

    I ask unanimous consent for the present consideration of this
    resolution.

    Mr. Swanson: I object to the introduction of the resolution.

    Mr. Lodge: Objection being made, of course I recognize the
    objection. I merely wish to add, by way of explanation, the following:
    The undersigned Senators of the United States, Members and Members-
    Elect of the Sixty-sixth Congress, hereby declare that, if they had
    had the opportunity, they would have voted for the foregoing
    resolution:

        Henry Cabot Lodge              James E. Watson
        Philander C. Knox              Thomas Sterling
        Lawrence Y. Sherman            J. S. Frelinghuysen
        Harry S. New                   W. G. Harding
        George H. Moses                Frederick Hale
        J. W. Wadsworth, Jr.           William E. Borah
        Bert M. Fernald                Walter E. Edge
        Albert B. Cummins              Reed Smoot
        F. E. Warren                   Asle J. Gronna
        Frank B. Brandegee             Lawrence C. Phipps
        William M. Calder              Selden P. Spencer
        Henry W. Keyes                 Hiram W. Johnson
        Boies Penrose                  Charles E. Townsend
        Carroll S. Page                William P. Dillingham
        George P. McLean               I. L. Lenroot
        Joseph Irwin France            Miles Poindexter
        Medill McCormick               Howard Sutherland
        Charles Curtis                 Truman H. Newberry
        L. Heisler Ball

     I ought to say in justice to three or four Senators who are absent at
    great distances from the city that we were not able to reach them; but
    we expect to hear from them to-morrow, and if, as we expect, their
    answers are favourable their names will be added to the list.

    A full report of this action was cabled to Europe, as a matter of
    course, and when the President arrived in Paris on March 14th, ten
    days later, he was quick to learn of the disastrous consequences. The
    Allies, eagerly accepting the orders of the Republican majority, had
    lost no time in repudiating the President and the solemn agreements
    that they had entered into with him. The League of Nations was not
    discarded and the plan adopted for a preliminary peace with Germany
    was based upon a frank division of the spoils, the reduction of
    Germany to a slave state, and the formation of a military alliance by
    the Allies for the purpose of guaranteeing the gains. Not only this,
    but an Allied army was to march at once to Russia to put down the
    Bolshevists and the Treaty itself was to be administered by the Allied
    high command, enforcing its orders by an army of occupation. The
    United States, as a rare favour, was to be permitted to pay the cost
    of the Russian expedition and such other incidental expenses as might
    arise in connection with the military dictatorship that was to rule
    Europe.

    While primarily the plan of Foch and the other generals, it had the
    approval of statesmen, even those who were assumed to represent the
    liberal thought of England being neck-deep in the conspiracy.

    Not a single party to the cabal had any doubt as to its success. Was
    it not the case that the Republican Senators, now in the majority,
    spoke for America rather than the President? Had the Senators not
    stated formally that they did not want the League of Nations, and was
    the Republican party itself not on record with the belief that the
    Allies must have the right to impose peace terms of their own
    choosing, and that these terms should show no mercy to the "accursed
    Hun"? ... The President allowed himself just twenty-four hours in
    which to grasp the plot in all its details, and then he acted,
    ordering the issuance of this statement:

    "The President said to-day that the decision made at the Peace
    Conference in its Plenary Session, January 25, 1919, to the effect
    that the establishment of a League of Nations should be made an
    integral part of the Treaty of Peace, is of final force and that there
    is no basis whatever for the reports that a change in this decision
    was contemplated."

     ...On March 26th, it was announced, grudgingly enough, that there
    would be a league of nations as an integral part of the Peace Treaty.
    It was now the task of the President to take up the changes that had
    been suggested by his Republican enemies, and this was the straw that
    broke his back. There was not a single suggested change that had
    honesty back of it. The League was an association of sovereigns, and
    as a matter of course any sovereign possessed the right of withdrawal.
    The League, as an international advisory body, could not possibly deal
    with domestic questions under any construction of the Covenant. No
    power of Congress was abridged, and necessarily Congress would have to
    act before war could be declared or a single soldier sent out of the
    country. Instead of recognizing the Monroe Doctrine as an American
    policy, the League legitimized it as a world policy. The President,
    however, was bound to propose that these plain propositions be put in
    kindergarten language for the satisfaction of his enemies, and it was
    this proposal that gave Clemenceau, Lloyd George, and their associates
    a new chance for resistance. All of the suggested changes were made
    without great demur until the question of the Monroe Doctrine was
    reached, and then French and English bitterness broke all restraints.
    Why were they expected to make every concession to American prejudice
    when the President would make none to European traditions? They had
    gone to the length of accepting the doctrine of Monroe for the whole
    of the earth, but now, because American pride demanded it, they must
    make public confession of America's right to give orders. No! A
    thousand times no! It was high time for the President to give a little
    consideration to French and English and Italian prejudices--time for
    him to realize that the lives of these governments were at stake as
    well as his own, and that Lloyd George, Clemenceau, and Sonnino had
    parliaments to deal with that were just as unreasonable as the
    Congress of the United States. If the President asked he must be
    willing to give.

    As if at a given signal, France renewed her claim for the Rhine Valley
    and the Saar Basin; Italy clamoured anew for Fiume and the Dalmatian
    coast; and Japan, breaking a long silence, rushed to the fore with her
    demand for Shantung in fee simple and the right of her nationals to
    full equality in the United States.

Around this time the President fell suddenly ill and took to his bed. That the illness was
serious is evidenced by the following letter which Doctor Grayson wrote me:

    Paris, 10 April 1919.

    DEAR MR. TUMULTY:

    While the contents of this letter may possibly be somewhat out of date
    by the time it reaches you, nevertheless you may find something in it
    of interest.

    This has been one of the most complexing and trying weeks of my
    existence over here. The President was taken violently sick last
    Thursday. The attack was very sudden. At three o'clock he was
    apparently all right; at six he was seized with violent paroxysms of
    coughing, which were so severe and frequent that it interfered with
    his breathing. He had a fever of 103 and a profuse diarrhoea. I was at
    first suspicious that his food had been tampered with, but it turned
    out to be the beginning of an attack of influenza. That night was one
    of the worst through which I have ever passed. I was able to control
    the spasms of coughing but his condition looked very serious. Since
    that time he has been gradually improving every day so that he is now
    back at work--he went out for the first time yesterday. This disease
    is so treacherous, especially in this climate, that I am perhaps over-
    anxious for fear of a flare-back--and a flare-back in a case of this
    kind often results in pneumonia. I have been spending every minute of
    my time with him, not only as physician but as nurse. Mrs. Wilson was
    a perfect angel through it all.

    Sincerely,
      CARY T. GRAYSON.

Continuing the narrative Mr. Creel writes:

    On April 7th, the President struggled to his feet and faced the
    Council in what everyone recognized as a final test of strength. There
    must be an end to this dreary, interminable business of making
    agreements only to break them. An agreement must be reached once for
    all. If a peace of justice, he would remain; if a peace of greed, then
    he would leave. He had been second to none in recognizing the wrongs
    of the Allies, the state of mind of their peoples, and he stood as
    firmly as any for a treaty that would bring guilt home to the Germans,
    but he could not, and would not, agree to the repudiation of every war
    aim or to arrangements that would leave the world worse off than
    before. The George Washington was in Brooklyn. By wireless the
    President ordered it to come to Brest at once.

    The gesture was conclusive as far as England and France were
    concerned. Lloyd George swung over instantly to the President's side,
    and on the following day Le Temps carried this significant item:

    "Contrary to the assertions spread by the German press and taken up by
    other foreign newspapers, we believe that the Government has no
    annexationist pretensions, openly or under cover, in regard to any
    territory inhabited by a German population. This remark applies
    peculiarly to the regions comprised between the frontier of 1871 and
    the frontier of 1814."

    Again, in the lock of wills, the President was the victor, and the
    French and English press, exhausted by now, could only gasp their
    condemnation of Clemenceau and Lloyd George.

The statement of Mr. David Hunter Miller, the legal adviser of the American Peace Commission,
with reference to the debate on the Monroe Doctrine, in which the President played the leading
part, is conclusive on this point. Mr. Miller speaks of the President's devotion to the Monroe
Doctrine in these words:

    But the matter was not at an end, for at the next meeting, the last of
    all, the French sought by amendment to obtain some definition, some
    description of the Monroe Doctrine that would limit the right of the
    United States to insist upon its own interpretation of that Doctrine
    in the future as in the past. The French delegates, hoping for some
    advantage for their own proposals, urged such a definition: and at
    that last meeting I thought for a moment, in despair, that President
    Wilson would yield to the final French suggestion, which contained
    only a few seemingly simple words: but he stood by his position
    through the long discussion, and the meeting and the proceedings of
    the Commission ended early in the morning in an atmosphere of
    constraint and without any of the speeches of politeness customary on
    such an occasion.

Of all the false reports about the President's attitude none was more erroneous than the combined
statements that he was lukewarm about the Monroe Doctrine and that he declined to ask for or
receive advice from eminent Americans outside of his own party.

In Appendix "B" there will be found a series of letters and cable messages, too long for insertion
in the chapter, which will support the statement that he not only listened to but had incorporated
in the Covenant of the League of Nations suggestions from Mr. Taft, including important reservations
concerning the Monroe Doctrine, and suggestions from Mr. Root as to the establishment of an
International Court of Justice.

Former-President Taft had intimated to me a desire to make certain suggestions to Mr. Wilson,
and, upon my notification, Mr. Wilson cabled me that he would "appreciate Mr. Taft's offer
of suggestions and would welcome them. The sooner they are sent the better." Whereupon, Mr.
Taft's suggestions were cabled to the President together with Mr. Taft's statement that, "My
impression is that if the one article already sent, on the Monroe Doctrine, be inserted in
the Treaty, sufficient Republicans who signed the Round Robin would probably retreat from their
position and vote for ratification so that it would carry. If the other suggestions were adopted,
I feel confident that all but a few who oppose any league would be driven to accept them and
to stand for the League."

Mr. Taft's recommendations were in substance incorporated in the Covenant of the League of Nations.

Emphasizing further the President's entire willingness to confer with leading Republicans,
even those outside of official relationship, on March 27, 1919, Mr. Polk, Acting Secretary
of State, dispatched to Secretary of State Lansing, for the President, proposed amendments
offered by Mr. Root to the constitution of the League of Nations, involving the establishment
of a Court of Justice. Immediately upon receipt of Mr. Polk's cable, the President addressed
to Colonel House, a member of the Peace Commission, the following letter, marked "Confidential."

    Paris. March 30, 1919.

    MY DEAR HOUSE:

    Here is a dispatch somewhat belated in transmission stating Mr. Root's
    ideas as to amendments which should be made to the Covenant. I think
    you will find some of these very interesting. Perhaps you have already
    seen it.

    In haste.

    Affectionately yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    COLONEL E. M. HOUSE,
      Hotel Crillon,
      Paris.

A comparison of the suggestions presented by Mr. Taft and Mr. Root, which will be found in
the Appendix, with the existing Covenant of the League of Nations, will readily convince any
person desiring to reach the truth of the matter, that all the material amendments proposed
by these eminent Republicans which had any essential bearing on the business in hand were embodied
in the Covenant of the League of Nations as brought back by President Wilson.

CHAPTER XXXVII

WILSON--THE LONE HAND

It has often been said by certain gentlemen who were associated with President Wilson on the
other side that he was unyielding and dogmatic, that he insisted upon playing a "lone hand,"
that he was secretive and exclusive, and that he ignored the members of the Peace Commission
and the experts who accompanied him to the Conference.

Contrary to this criticism, after an uninterrupted, continuous, and most intimate association
with him for eleven years, an association which brought me into close contact with him in the
most delicate crises through which his administration and the nation passed, a time which threw
upon the Chief Executive of the nation a task unparalleled in the history of the world, I wish
to say that there is no franker or more open-minded man, nor one less dogmatic in his opinion
than Woodrow Wilson. In him the desire for information and guidance is a passion. Indeed, the
only thing he resents is a lack of frankness upon the part of his friends, and no man is more
ready courageously to act and to hold to his opinions after he has obtained the necessary information
upon, which he bases his position. It is his innate modesty and a certain kind of shyness that
people mistake for coldness and aloofness. He is not a good fellow in the ordinary sense of
that term. His friendship does not wear the cheap or tawdry trappings of the politician, but
there is about it a depth of genuineness and sincerity, that while it does not overwhelm you,
it wins you and holds you. But the permanent consideration upon which this friendship is based
is sincerity and frankness.

No man ever worked under greater handicaps than did Woodrow Wilson at Paris. Repudiated by
his own people in the Congressional elections; harassed on every side and at every turn by
his political enemies, he still pursued the even tenor of his way and accomplished what he
had in mind, against the greatest odds.

In the murky atmosphere of the Peace Conference, where every attitude of the President was
grossly exaggerated, in order that his prestige might be lessened, it was not possible to judge
him fairly, but it is now possible in a calmer day to review the situation from afar through
the eyes of those who were actual participants with him in the great assembly, onlookers, as
it were, who saw every move and witnessed every play of the Peace Conference from the side
lines, and who have not allowed petty motives to warp their judgments.

This testimony, which forms part of "What Really Happened in Paris," edited by Edward M. House
and Charles Seymour, comes from gentlemen who were his friends and co-labourers and who daily
conferred with him upon the momentous questions that came up for consideration at the Peace
Conference.

Mr. Thomas W. Lamont, a member of the great banking house of J. P. Morgan & Company, one of
the representatives of the United States Treasury with the American Commission to Negotiate
Peace, gives the lie to the unfair criticisms uttered about the President, to the effect that
he was exclusive, secretive, and refused to confer with those associated with him. Mr. Lamont
in speaking of the President's attitude throughout the Peace Conference said:

    I am going to take this opportunity to say a word, in general, as to
    President Wilson's attitude at the Peace Conference. He is accused of
    having been unwilling to consult his colleagues. I never saw a man
    more ready and anxious to consult than he. He has been accused of
    having been desirous to gain credit for himself and ignore others. I
    never saw a man more considerate of those of his co-adjutors who were
    working immediately with him, nor a man more ready to give them credit
    with the other chiefs of state. Again and again would he say to Mr.
    Lloyd George or Mr. Clemenceau: "My expert here, Mr. So-and-So, tells
    me such-and-such, and I believe he is right. You will have to argue
    with him if you want me to change my opinion." President Wilson
    undoubtedly had his disabilities. Perhaps, in a trade, some of the
    other chiefs of state could have "out-jockeyed" him; but it seldom
    reached such a situation, because President Wilson, by his manifest
    sincerity and open candour, always saying precisely what he thought,
    would early disarm his opponents in argument. President Wilson did not
    have a well-organized secretarial staff. He did far too much of the
    work himself, studying until late at night papers and documents that
    he should have largely delegated to some discreet aides. He was, by
    all odds, the hardest worked man at the Conference; but the failure to
    delegate more of his work was not due to any inherent distrust he had
    of men--and certainly not any desire to "run the whole show" himself--
    but simply to his lack of facility in knowing how to delegate work on
    a large scale. In execution, we all have a blind spot in some part of
    our eye. President Wilson's was in his inability to use men; and
    inability, mind you, not a refusal. On the contrary, when any one of
    us volunteered or insisted upon taking responsibility off his
    shoulders he was delighted. Throughout the Peace Conference, Mr.
    Wilson never played politics. I never witnessed an occasion when I saw
    him act from unworthy conception or motive. His ideals were of the
    highest, and he clung to them tenaciously and courageously. Many of
    the so-called "Liberals" in England have assailed Mr. Wilson bitterly
    because, as they declare, he yielded too much to their own Premier,
    Mr. Lloyd George, and to Mr. Clemenceau. But could he have failed to
    defer to them on questions in which no vital principle was involved? I
    well remember his declaration on the question, whether the Allies
    should refuse, for a period of five years during the time of France's
    recuperations to promise Germany reciprocal tariff provisions. What
    Mr. Wilson said to Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. Clemenceau was this:
    "Gentlemen, my experts and I both regard the principle involved as an
    unwise one. We believe it will come back to plague you. But when I see
    how France has suffered, how she has been devastated, her industries
    destroyed--who am I to refuse to assent to this provision, designed,
    wisely or unwisely, to assist in lifting France again to her feet."

The question has often been asked, whether the President freely consulted his experts on the
other side, or ignored them. The experience of the gentlemen who conferred with him is the
best refutation of this insinuation against the President. Charles Homer Haskins, Chief of
the Division of Western Europe, a member of the American Peace Conference, answers this question
in these words:

    The President was anxious to have the exact facts before him in every
    situation. Doubtless, there were a number of occasions when he could
    not consult with experts at a particular moment, but, in general, the
    President sought such advice, although he naturally had to use his own
    judgment whether that advice was to be adopted in any particular case.

Answering this same question, Mr. Douglas Wilson Johnson, Chief of the Division of Boundary
Geography, and a member of the Peace Commission, says:

    Whenever we, in our capacity as specialists, thought we had found
    something that the President ought to know about, and believed we
    could not get it across effectively in any other manner, we could ask
    for a personal conference with him. He was, of course, a very busy man
    because, unlike the experts who usually had only one problem to
    consider, he had to do not only with all the territorial problems but
    in addition with all the problems bearing on the League of Nations,
    the economic problems, and many other aspects of the peace. Despite
    this fact I wish to state that while I repeatedly asked for personal
    conferences with the President on this and certain other problems, he
    never failed to respond immediately with an appointment. He had a
    private wire and on occasion he would call us at the Crillon to make
    appointments on his own initiative or to secure papers, maps, or other
    documents that he needed in his studies. I will not forget that in one
    instance he called me on the telephone late at night in my bedroom,
    asking for some papers which I had promised to supply him, and which
    had not reached him with sufficient promptness. You can judge from
    this that he kept closely in touch with the problems he was called
    upon to consider.

Another question that has been asked is: Did the President have an intimate knowledge of the
complicated questions that came before him like the Adriatic problem, for instance? That criticism
was answered by Mr. Douglas Wilson Johnson in these words:

    In answer to that question I will say that the President kept in
    constant touch with the experts on the Adriatic problem, not only
    through the memoranda furnished by the experts but in other ways. I
    can assure you that there was sent to him a voluminous quantity of
    material, and I want to say that when we had personal discussions with
    him upon the question it immediately became apparent that he had
    studied these memoranda most carefully. It is only fair to say that
    of the details and intricacies of this most difficult problem the
    President possessed a most astonishing command.

It has also been said that the President in his attitude toward Germany was ruthless, and yet
we have the testimony of Mr. Isaiah Bowman, Chief Territorial Adviser of the Peace Commission
who, in answer to the direct question: "Was there not a time when it looked as if the Peace
Conference might break up because of the extreme policy of one of the Allies?" said: "Yes,
there were a number of occasions when the Peace Conference might have broken up. Almost anything
might have happened with so many nations represented, so many personalities and so many experts--perhaps
half a thousand in all! Owing to the fact that President Wilson has been charged on the one
hand with outrageous concessions to the Allies and on the other hand that he had always been
soft with the Germans, particularly with Bulgaria, let us see just how soft he was! On a certain
day three of us were asked to call at the President's house, and on the following morning at
eleven o'clock we arrived. President Wilson welcomed us in a very cordial manner. I cannot
understand how people get the idea that he is cold. He does not make a fuss over you, but when
you leave you feel that you have met a very courteous gentleman. You have the feeling that
he is frank and altogether sincere. He remarked: 'Gentlemen, I am in trouble and I have sent
for you to help me out. The matter is this: the French want the whole left bank of the Rhine.
I told M. Clemenceau that I could not consent to such a solution of the problem. He became
very much excited and then demanded ownership of the Saar Basin. I told him I could not agree
to that either because it would mean giving 300,000 Germans to France.' Whereupon President
Wilson further said: 'I do not know whether I shall see M. Clemenceau again. I do not know
whether he will return to the meeting this afternoon. In fact, I do not know whether the Peace
Conference will continue. M. Clemenceau called me a pro-German and abruptly left the room.
I want you to assist me in working out a solution true to the principles we are standing for
and to do justice to France, and I can only hope that France will ultimately accept a reasonable
solution. I want to be fair to M. Clemenceau and to France, but I cannot consent to the outright
transfer to France of 300,000 Germans.' A solution was finally found--the one that stands in
the Treaty to-day."

Among the unfair things said about the President during the last campaign and uttered by a
senator of the United States, was that the President promised Premier Bratiano of Rumania to
send United States troops to protect the new frontiers. Mr. Charles Seymour, a member of the
American Peace Commission, answers this charge in the following way:

    The evidence against it is overwhelming. The stenographic notes taken
    during the session indicate that nothing said by President Wilson
    could be construed into a promise to send United States troops abroad
    to protect frontiers. The allegation is based upon the report of the
    interpreter, Mantoux, and a book by a journalist, Dr. E. W. Dillon,
    called "The Inside Story of the Peace Conference," M. Mantoux, though
    a brilliant and cultivated interpreter, whose work enormously
    facilitated the progress of the Conference, did not take stenographic
    notes and his interpretations sometimes failed to give the exact
    meaning of the original. Doctor Dillon's evidence is subject to
    suspicion, since his book is based upon gossip, and replete with
    errors of fact. The stenographic report, on the other hand, is worthy
    of trust. I have heard the President on more than one occasion explain
    to M. Clemenceau and Lloyd George that if troops were necessary to
    protect any troubled area, they must not look to the United States for
    assistance, for public opinion in this country would not permit the
    use of American forces.

No men ever winced less under the criticism or bitter ridicule of his enemies than did Woodrow
Wilson. Whether the criticism was directed at him or at some member of his Cabinet, or, mayhap,
at a subordinate like myself, for some act, statement, or even an indiscretion, he bore up
under the criticism like a true sportsman. I remember how manfully he met the storm of criticism
that was poured upon him after the issuance of the famous Garfield Fuel Order. He courageously
took the responsibility for the issuance of the order and stood by Doctor Garfield to the last.

It will be recalled what a tremendous impression and reaction the Garfield order caused when
it was published throughout the country. Many about the President were greatly worried and
afraid of the disastrous effect of it upon the country. Cabinet officers rushed in upon him
and endeavoured to persuade him to recall it and even to repudiate Garfield for having issued
the order without consulting the Cabinet, but their remonstrances fell unheeded upon the President's
ears. I remember at the time that I wrote the President regarding the matter and called his
attention to what appeared to me to be the calamitous results of the issuance of the Fuel Order.

My letter to the President is as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    17 January, 1918.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    At twelve o'clock last night, Mr. Lincoln of the New York World called
    me out of bed by telephone to notify me that the Fuel Administration
    had issued a drastic order shutting down the factories of the country
    for five days, etc.

    I do not know about the details of the order. I assume of course that
    it was necessary because of the tremendous shortage throughout the
    country. But what I am afraid of is that my own readiness to accept
    this assumption may not be shared by people outside. In other words,
    has the groundwork been laid for this radical step? Do the people know
    how much coal we have on hand and what the real shortage is? Have they
    not been led to believe that our chief ill was transportation and that
    by subjecting themselves to hardships by cutting down trains, etc.,
    enough cars have been provided to carry coal?

    In other words, I am afraid the country will want to be shown that the
    step just taken was absolutely necessary and if this cannot be proved,
    I greatly fear the consequences upon the morale of the people. I am so
    afraid that it will weaken their confidence in any action the
    Government may take hereafter which depends for its execution on the
    voluntary cooperation of the people. Again, it seems to me unjust that
    all industries are put on the same footing. It is a difficult thing I
    know to distinguish between the essential and non-essential
    industries, but I am sure the country will understand if such a
    distinction is made of, for instance, institutions that make pianos
    and talking machines and candy and articles that are not immediately
    necessary for our life, were cut down altogether and things necessary
    to our sustenance kept.

    Sincerely yours,
      TUMULTY

    THE PRESIDENT

The President's reply, written on his own typewriter, is as follows:

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    Of course, this is a tremendous matter and has given me the deepest
    concern, but I really think this direct road is the road out of
    difficulties which never would have been entirely remedied if we had
    not taken some such action. We must just bow our heads and let the
    storm beat.

    WOODROW WILSON.

Even to Mr. James M. Beck, a prominent Republican lawyer and one of his bitterest opponents
and critics, he showed a tolerance and magnanimity that were worthy of the man himself. It
appears that Mr. Beck was invited to confer at the White House on a matter having to do with
the war, and the question was presented to the President by Mr. Creel as to whether the President
considered Mr. Beck persona non grata. The President at once sent me the following note:

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    Mr. James M. Beck expressed some hesitation about coming with the
    committee which Creel has organized and which is coming to see me on
    Monday afternoon, because he was not sufficiently persona grata at
    the White House. I think his criticism and his whole attitude before
    we went into the war were abominable and inexcusable, but I "ain't
    harbouring no ill will" just now and I hope that you will have the
    intimation conveyed to him through Mr. Creel or otherwise that he will
    be welcomed.

    WOODROW WILSON.

While the President was busily engaged in France in laying the foundation stones of peace,
his partisan enemies were busily engaged in destroying the things he held so dear, and had
industriously circulated the story that the mission to France was a mere political one, that
the purpose back of it was personal exploitation, or an attempt on the part of the President
to thrust himself into the councils of the Democratic party as an active and aggressive candidate
for a third term. The President's attitude in this matter, his fear that talk of this kind
would embarrass the League of Nations, is disclosed by the following correspondence:

    Received at the White House,
      June 2, 1919.

    Paris.
    TUMULTY,
      White House, Washington.

    Have just read the editorial in the Springfield Republican,
    discussing "Wilson the Third Term and the Treaty," and would very
    much value your opinion with regard to the situation as it analyzes
    it. Please talk with Glass, Secretary Baker, Secretary Wilson, and
    Cummings and let me know what your opinion is and what theirs is. We
    must let nothing stand in the way of the Treaty and the adoption of
    the League. I will, of course, form no resolution until I reach home
    but wish to think the matter out in plenty of time.

    WOODROW WILSON.

           *       *       *       *       *

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    2 June, 1919.

    THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
      Paris.

    Cummings on campaign trip covering Middle West and coast. Will be away
    six weeks. My own opinion is that it would be unwise at this time to
    act upon suggestion contained in Springfield Republican editorial.
    [The editorial suggested that the President withdraw his name from
    consideration in connection with a third term.] This is not the time
    to say anything about your attitude toward matter discussed in
    editorial because there is a depression in our ranks and a feeling
    that our prospects for 1920 are not bright. Republicans would say you
    had retreated under the threat of defeat and the cause of the League
    of Nations would be weakened instead of strengthened. The issue of the
    League of Nations is so clear-cut that your attitude toward a third
    term at present is not a real cause of embarrassment. In fact, I can
    see great advantage to be gained for the ratification of the League by
    giving the impression that you are seriously considering going to the
    country on the League of Nations. Am strongly of belief, as you know,
    that you should not under any circumstances consider or accept
    nomination for third term. In this matter I have very few supporters
    in our party. A trip I just made to Illinois and St. Louis over
    Decoration Day convinces me that a big drive will be made to induce
    you to allow your name to be used again. The Presidency for another
    four years would not add one whit to the honour that will be yours and
    the place of dignity that you will occupy in the hearts of our people
    when the League of Nations is consummated and your present term
    expires.

    Upon your return to this country and with a clearer perception of what
    you are trying to do, there will come a turn of the tide in our
    favour. Many factors not now very clear are leading in that direction.
    The Republicans by the selection of Penrose have made the Republican
    party again the stand-pat party of America and their failure, which
    will become more evident as the days pass, to correct abuses that some
    months ago they called grave, will prove more and more the strength
    and value of Democratic policies.

    Prosperity now sweeping in from coast and Middle West will soon be
    upon us. Even business which turned away from us in last campaign in
    the hope that Excess Profit Tax and other burdensome taxes would be
    reduced, will soon find out how fatuous and futile is the Republican
    policy. Many Progressive leaders will soon come to the front and will
    take up the work left undone by Roosevelt. My opinion, therefore, is
    that what action you take in this matter should await the turn of the
    tide so that as the hopes of Democracy rise and success for 1920 looks
    more promising than it does to-day, then that time in my opinion will
    offer the psychological moment for you to say what really is in your
    heart about a third term and thus help not only the party but the
    League of Nations. Therefore, until the psychological moment comes,
    the politic thing to do is to keep "mum" about this matter and await
    the happenings of the future.

    TUMULTY.

A clear, inside view of the feeling of the man toward the Treaty, his deep heart interest in
it, and his characterization of the opposition were disclosed in a speech delivered by him
to the members of the Democratic National Committee at the White House on February 28, 1919.
This speech is now published for the first time, and is as follows:

    The real issue of the day, gentlemen, is the League of Nations, and I
    think we must be very careful to serve the country in the right way
    with regard to that issue. We ought not, as I know you already feel
    from the character of the action you have just taken--we ought not
    even to create the appearance of trying to make that a party issue.
    And I suggested this to Mr. Cummings and the others who sat by me: I
    think it would be wise if the several National Committeemen were to
    get in touch with their state organizations upon returning home and
    suggest this course of action--that the Democratic state organizations
    get into conference with the Republican state organizations and say to
    them: "Here is this great issue upon which the future peace of the
    world depends; it ought not to be made a party issue or to divide upon
    party lines; the country ought to support it regardless of party (as
    you stated in your resolution); now we propose to you that you pass
    resolutions supporting it, as we intend to do, and we will not
    anticipate you in the matter if you agree to that policy; let us stand
    back of it and not make a party issue of it." Of course, if they
    decline, then it is perfectly legitimate, it seems to me, for the
    Democratic organization if it pleases to pass resolutions, framing
    these resolutions in as non-partisan language as is possible, but
    nevertheless doing what citizens ought to do in matters of this sort.
    But not without first making it a matter of party record that it has
    made these approaches to the Republican organizations and has proposed
    this similarity of action. In that way we accomplish a double object.
    We put it up to them to support the real opinion of their own people
    and we get instructed by the resolutions, and we find where the weak
    spots are and where the fighting has to be done for this great issue.
    Because, believe me, gentlemen, the civilized world cannot afford to
    have us lose this fight. I tried to state in Boston what it would mean
    to the people of the world if the United States did not support this
    great ideal with cordiality, but I was not able to speak when I tried
    fully to express my thoughts. I tell you, frankly, I choked up; I
    could not do it. The thing reaches the depth of tragedy. There is a
    sense in which I can see that the hope entertained by the people of
    the world with regard to us is a tragical hope--tragical in this
    sense, that it is so great, so far-reaching, it runs out to such
    depths that we cannot in the nature of things satisfy it. The world
    cannot go as fast in the direction of ideal results as these people
    believe the United States can carry them, and that is what makes me
    choke up when I try to talk about it--the consciousness of what they
    want us to do and of our relative inadequacy. And yet there is a great
    deal that we can do, and the immediate thing that we can do is to have
    an overwhelming national endorsement of this great plan. If we have
    that we will have settled most of the immediate political difficulties
    in Europe. The present danger of the world--of course, I have to say
    this in the confidence of this company--but the present danger in this
    world is that the peoples of the world do not believe in their own
    governments. They believe these governments to be made up of the kind
    of men who have always run them, and who did not know how to keep them
    out of this war, did not know how to prepare them for war, and did not
    know how to settle international controversies in the past without
    making all sorts of compromising concessions. They do not believe in
    them, and therefore they have got to be buttressed by some outside
    power in which they do not believe. Perhaps it would not do for them
    to examine us too narrowly. We are by no means such ideal people as
    they believe us to be, but I can say that we are infinitely better
    than the others. We do purpose these things, we do purpose these great
    unselfish things; that is the glory of America, and if we can confirm
    that belief we have steadied the whole process of history in the
    immediate future; whereas if we do not confirm that belief I would not
    like to say what would happen in the way of utter dissolution of
    society.

    The only thing that that ugly, poisonous thing called Bolshevism feeds
    on is the doubt of the man on the street of the essential integrity of
    the people he is depending on to do his governing. That is what it
    feeds on. No man in his senses would think that a lot of local Soviets
    could really run a government, but some of them are in a temper to
    have anything rather than the kind of thing they have been having; and
    they say to themselves: "Well, this may be bad but it is at least
    better and more immediately in touch with us than the other, and we
    will try it and see whether we cannot work something out of it."

    So that our immediate duty, not as Democrats, but as American
    citizens, is to concert the most powerful campaign that was ever
    concerted in this country in favour of supporting the League of
    Nations and to put it up to everybody--the Republican organizations
    and every other organization--to say where they stand, and to make a
    record and explain this thing to the people.

    In one sense it does not make any difference what the Constitution of
    the League of Nations is. This present constitution in my judgment is
    a very conservative and sound document. There are some things in it
    which I would have phrased otherwise. I am modest enough to believe
    that the American draft was better than this, but it is the result of
    as honest work as I ever knew to be done. Here we sat around the table
    where there were representatives of fourteen nations. The five great
    powers, so-called, gave themselves two delegates apiece and they
    allowed the other nine one delegate apiece. But it did not count by
    members--it counted by purpose.

    For example, among the rest was a man whom I have come to admire so
    much that I have come to have a personal affection for him, and that
    is Mr. Venizelos, Prime Minister of Greece, as genuine a friend of man
    as ever lived and as able a friend honest people ever had, and a man
    on whose face a glow comes when you state a great principle, and yet
    who is intensely practical and who was there to insist that nothing
    was to be done which would put the small nations of the world at the
    disposal of the big nations. So that he was the most influential
    spokesman of what may be called the small powers as contrasted with
    the great. But I merely single him out for the pleasure of paying him
    this tribute, and not because the others were less earnest in pursuing
    their purpose. They were a body of men who all felt this. Indeed,
    several of them said this to us: "The world expects not only, but
    demands of us that we shall do this thing successfully, and we cannot
    go away without doing it." There is not a statesman in that conference
    who would dare to go home saying that he had merely signed a treaty of
    peace no matter how excellent the terms of that treaty are, because he
    has received if not an official at least an influential mandate to see
    to it that something is done in addition which will make the thing
    stand after it is done; and he dare not go home without doing that. So
    that all around that table there was cooeperation--generous cooeperation
    of mind to make that document as good as we could make it. And I
    believe it is a thoroughly sound document. There is only one
    misleading sentence in it--only one sentence that conveys a wrong
    impression. That can, I dare say, be altered, though it is going to be
    extremely difficult to set up that fourteen-nation process again as
    will have to be done if any alteration is made.

    The particular and most important thing to which every nation that
    joins the League agrees is this: That it won't fight on any question
    at all until it has done one of two things. If it is about a question
    that it considers suitable for arbitration it will submit it to
    arbitration. You know, Mr. Taft and other serious advocates of this
    general idea have tried to distinguish between justiciable and non-
    justiciable subjects, and while they have had more or less success
    with it, the success has not been satisfactory. You cannot define
    expressly the questions which nations would be willing to submit to
    arbitration. Some question of national pride may come in to upset the
    definition. So we said we would make them promise to submit every
    question that they considered suitable to arbitration and to abide by
    the result. If they do not regard it as suitable for arbitration they
    bind themselves to submit it to the consideration of the Executive
    Council for a period not exceeding six months, but they are not bound
    by the decision. It is an opinion, not a decision. But if a decision,
    a unanimous decision, is made, and one of the parties to the dispute
    accepts the decision, the other party does bind itself not to attack
    the party that accepts the opinion. Now in discussing that we saw this
    difficulty. Suppose that Power B is in possession of a piece of
    territory which Power A claims, and Power A wins its claim so far as
    the opinion of the Executive Council is concerned. And suppose that
    the power in possession of the territory accepts the decision but then
    simply stands pat and does nothing. It has got the territory. The
    other party, inasmuch as the party that has lost has accepted the
    decision, has bound itself not to attack it and cannot go by force of
    arms and take possession of the country. In order to cure that
    quandary we used a sentence which said that in case--I have forgotten
    the phraseology but it means this--in case any power refuses to carry
    out the decision the Executive Council was to consider the means by
    which it could be enforced. Now that apparently applies to both
    parties but was intended to apply to the non-active party which
    refuses to carry it out. And that sentence is open to a
    misconstruction. The Commission did not see that until after the
    report was made and I explained this to the General Conference. I made
    an explanation which was substantially the same as I have made to you,
    and that this should be of record may be sufficient to interpret that
    phrase, but probably not. It is not part of the Covenant and possibly
    an attempt ought to be made to alter it.

    But I am wandering from my real point. My point is that this is a
    workable beginning of a thing that the world insists on. There is no
    foundation for it except the good faith of the parties, but there
    could not be any other foundation for an arrangement between nations.

    The other night after dinner Senator Thomas, of Colorado, said: "Then
    after all it is not a guarantee of peace." Certainly not. Who said
    that it was? If you can invent an actual guarantee of peace you will
    be a benefactor of mankind, but no such guarantee has been found. But
    this comes as near being a guarantee of peace as you can get.

    I had this interesting experience when the Covenant was framed. I
    found that I was the only member of the Committee who did not take it
    for granted that the members of the League would have the right to
    secede. I found there was a universal feeling that this treaty could
    be denounced in the usual way and that a state could withdraw. I
    demurred from that opinion and found myself in a minority of one, and
    I could not help saying to them that this would be very interesting on
    the other side of the water, that the only Southerner on this
    conference should deny the right of secession. But nevertheless it is
    instructive and interesting to learn that this is taken for granted;
    that it is not a covenant that you would have to continue to adhere
    to. I suppose that is a necessary assumption among sovereign states,
    but it would not be a very handsome thing to withdraw after we had
    entered upon it. The point is that it does rest upon the good faith of
    all the nations. Now the historic significance of it is this:

    We are setting up right in the path that German ambition expected to
    tread a number of new states that, chiefly because of their newness,
    will for a long time be weak states. We are carving a piece of Poland
    out of Germany's side; we are creating an independent Bohemia below
    that, an independent Hungary below that, and enlarging Rumania, and we
    are rearranging the territorial divisions of the Balkan States. We are
    practically dissolving the Empire of Turkey and setting up under
    mandatories of the League of Nations a number of states in Asia Minor
    and Arabia which, except for the power of the mandatories, would be
    almost helpless against any invading or aggressive force, and that is
    exactly the old Berlin-to-Bagdad route. So that when you remember that
    there is at present a strong desire on the part of Austria to unite
    with Germany, you have the prospect of an industrial nation with
    seventy or eighty millions of people right in the heart of Europe, and
    to the southeast of it nothing but weakness, unless it is supported by
    the combined power of the world.

    Unless you expect this structure built at Paris to be a house of
    cards, you have got to put into it the structural iron which will be
    afforded by the League of Nations. Take the history of the war that we
    have just been through. It is agreed by everybody that has expressed
    an opinion that if Germany had known that England would go in, she
    never would have started. What do you suppose she would have done if
    she had known that everybody else would have gone in? Of course she
    would never have started. If she had known that the world would have
    been against her, this war would not have occurred; and the League of
    Nations gives notice that if anything of that sort is tried again, the
    world will be against the nation that tries it, and with that
    assurance given that such a nation will have to fight the world, you
    may be sure that whatever illicit ambitions a nation may have, it
    cannot and will not attempt to realize them. But if they have not that
    assurance and can in the meantime set up an infinite network of
    intrigue such as we now know ran like a honeycomb through the world,
    then any arrangement will be broken down. This is the place where
    intrigue did accomplish the disintegration which made the realization
    of Germany's purposes almost possible. So that those people will have
    to make friends with their powerful neighbour Germany unless they have
    already made friends with all the rest of the world. So that we must
    have the League of Nations or else a repetition of the catastrophe we
    have just gone through.

    Now if you put that case before the people of the United States and
    show them that without the League of Nations it is not worth while
    completing the treaty we are making in Paris, then you have got an
    argument which even an unidealistic people would respond to, and ours
    is not an unidealistic people but the most idealistic people in the
    world. Just let them catch the meaning which really underlies this and
    there won't be any doubt, as to what the response will be from; the
    hearts and from the judgments of the people of the United States.

    I would hope, therefore, that forgetting elections for the time being
    we should devote our thought and our energies and our plans to this
    great business, to concert bi-partisan and non-partisan action, and by
    whatever sort of action, to concert every effort in support of this
    thing. I cannot imagine an orator being afforded a better theme, so
    trot out your orators and turn them loose, because they will have an
    inspiration in this that they have never had before, and I would like
    a guarantee that the best vocabulary they can mobilize won't be equal
    to the job. It surpasses past experience in the world and seems like a
    prospect of realizing what once seemed a remote hope of international
    morale. And you notice the basis of this thing. It guarantees the
    members of the League, guarantees to each their territorial integrity
    and political independence as against external aggression.

    I found that all the other men around the conference table had a great
    respect for the right of revolution. We do not guarantee any state
    against what may happen inside itself, but we do guarantee against
    aggression from the outside, so that the family can be as lively as it
    pleases, and we know what generally happens to an interloper if you
    interfere in a family quarrel. There was a very interesting respect
    for the right of revolution; it may be because many of them thought it
    was nearer at hand than they had supposed and this immediate
    possibility breathed a respect in their minds. But whatever the reason
    was, they had a very great respect for it. I read the Virginia Bill of
    Rights very literally but not very elegantly to mean that any people
    is entitled to any kind of government it pleases and that it is none
    of our business to suggest or to influence the kind that it is going
    to have. Sometimes it will have a very riotous form of government, but
    that is none of our business. And I find that that is accepted, even
    with regard to Russia. Even conservative men like the representatives
    of Great Britain say it is not our business to dictate what kind of
    government Russia shall have. The only thing to do is to see if we can
    help them by conference and suggestion and recognition of the right
    elements to get together and not leave the country in a state of
    chaos.

    It was for that reasonable purpose that we tried to have the
    Conference at a place I had never heard of before--a place called
    Prinkipos. I understand it is a place on the Bosphorus with fine
    summer hotels, etc., and I was abashed to admit that I had never heard
    of it--but having plenty of house room, we thought that we could get
    the several Russian elements together there and see if we could not
    get them to sit down in one room together and tell us what it was all
    about and what they intended to do. The Bolshevists had accepted, but
    had accepted in a way that was studiously insulting. They said they
    would come, and were perfectly ready to say beforehand that they were
    ready to pay the foreign debt and ready to make concessions in
    economic matters, and that they were even ready to make territorial
    readjustments, which meant, "we are dealing with perjured governments
    whose only interest is in striking a bargain, and if that is the price
    of European recognition and cooperation, we are ready to pay it."

    I never saw anybody more angered than Mr. Lloyd George, who said: "We
    cannot let that insult go by. We are not after their money or their
    concessions or their territory. That is not the point. We are their
    friends who want to help them and must tell them so." We did not tell
    them so because to some of the people we had to deal with the payment
    of the foreign debt was a more interesting and important matter, but
    that will be made clear to them in conference, if they will believe
    it. But the Bolshevists, so far as we could get any taste of their
    flavour, are the most consummate sneaks in the world. I suppose
    because they know they have no high motives themselves, they do not
    believe that anybody else has. And Trotsky, having lived a few months
    in New York, was able to testify that the United States is in the
    hands of capitalists and does not serve anybody else's interests but
    the capitalists'. And the worst of it is, I think he honestly believes
    it. It would not have much effect if he didn't. Having received six
    dollars a week to write for a socialistic and anarchistic paper which
    believed that and printed it, and knowing how difficult it is to live
    on nothing but the wages of sin, he believes that the only wages paid
    here are the wages of sin.

    But we cannot rescue Russia without having a united Europe. One of my
    colleagues in Paris said: "We could not go home and say we had made
    peace if we left half of Europe and half of Asia at war--because
    Russia constitutes half of Europe and Siberia constitutes half of
    Asia." And yet we may have to go home without composing these great
    territories, but if we go home with a League of Nations, there will be
    some power to solve this most perplexing problem.

    And so from every point of view, it is obvious to the men in Paris,
    obvious to those who in their own hearts are most indifferent to the
    League of Nations, that we have to tie in the provisions of the Treaty
    with the League of Nations because the League of Nations is the heart
    of the Treaty. It is the only machinery. It is the only solid basis of
    masonry that is in the Treaty, and in saying that I know that I am
    expressing the opinion of all those with whom I have been conferring.
    I cannot imagine any greater historic glory for the party than to have
    it said that for the time being it is thinking not of elections, but
    of the salvation of the plain people of the world, and the plain
    people of the world are looking to us who call ourselves Democrats to
    prove to the utmost point of sacrifice that we are indeed Democrats,
    with a small d as well as a large D, that we are ready to put the
    whole power and influence of America at the disposal of free men
    everywhere in the world no matter what the sacrifice involved, no
    matter what the danger to the cause.

    And I would like, if I am not tiresome, to leave this additional
    thought in your mind. I was one of the first advocates of the
    mandatory. I do not at all believe in handing over any more territory
    than has already been handed over to any sovereign. I do not believe
    in putting the people of the German territories at the disposition,
    unsubordinated disposition, of any great power, and therefore I was a
    warm advocate of the idea of General Smuts--who, by the way, is an
    extraordinary person--who propounded the theory that the pieces of the
    Austro-Hungarian Empire and the pieces of the Turkish Empire and the
    German colonies were all political units or territorial units which
    ought to be accepted in trust by the family of nations, and not turned
    over to any member of the family, and that therefore the League of
    Nations would have as one of its chief functions to act as trustee for
    these great areas of dismembered empires. And yet the embarrassing
    moment came when they asked if the United States would be willing to
    accept a mandatory. I had to say off-hand that it would not be
    willing. I have got to say off-hand that in the present state of
    American opinion, at any rate, it wants to observe what I may call
    without offense Pharisaical cleanliness and not take anything out of
    the pile. It is its point of pride that it does not want to seem to
    take anything even by way of superintendence. And of course they said:
    "That is very disappointing, for this reason" (The reason they stated
    in as complimentary terms as I could have stated it myself): "You
    would be the most acceptable mandatory to any one of these peoples,
    and very few of us, if any, would be acceptable." They said that in so
    many words, and it would greatly advance the peace of the world and
    the peace of mind of Europe if the United States would accept
    mandatories. I said: "I am perfectly willing to go home and stump the
    country and see if they will do it," but I could not truthfully say
    off-hand that they would, because I did not know. Now what I wanted to
    suggest is this: Personally, and just within the limits of this room,
    I can say very frankly that I think we ought to. I think there is a
    very promising beginning in regard to countries like Armenia. The
    whole heart of America has been engaged for Armenia. They know more
    about Armenia and its sufferings than they know about any other
    European area; we have colleges out there; we have great missionary
    enterprises, just as we have had Robert College in Constantinople.
    That is a part of the world where already American influence extends,
    a saving influence and an educating and an uplifting influence.
    Colleges like Beirut in Syria have spread their influence very much
    beyond the limits of Syria, all through the Arabian country and
    Mesopotamia and in the distant parts of Asia Minor, and I am not
    without hope that the people of the United States would find it
    acceptable to go in and be the trustee of the interests of the
    Armenian people and see to it that the unspeakable Turk and the almost
    equally difficult Kurd had their necks sat on long enough to teach
    them manners and give the industrious and earnest people of Armenia
    time to develop a country which is naturally rich with possibilities.

    Now the place where they all want us to accept a mandate most is at
    Constantinople. I may say that it seems to be rather the consensus of
    opinion there that Constantinople ought to be internationalized. So
    that the present idea apparently is to delimit the territory around
    Constantinople to include the Straits and set up a mandate for that
    territory which will make those Straits open to the nations of the
    world without any conditions and make Constantinople truly
    international--an internationalized free city and a free port--and
    America is the only nation in the world that can undertake that
    mandate and have the rest of the world believe that it is undertaken
    in good faith that we do not mean to stay there and set up our own
    sovereignty. So that it would be a very serious matter for the
    confidence of the world in this treaty if the United States did not
    accept a mandate for Constantinople.

    What I have to suggest is that questions of that sort ought to be
    ventilated very thoroughly. This will appeal to the people of the
    United States: Are you going to take advantage of this and not any of
    the burden? Are you going to put the burden on the bankrupt states of
    Europe? For almost all of them are bankrupt in the sense that they
    cannot undertake any new things. I think that will appeal to the
    American people: that they ought to take the burdens--for they are
    burdens. Nobody is going to get anything out of a mandatory of
    Constantinople or Armenia. It is a work of disinterested philanthropy.
    And if you first present that idea and then make tentative expositions
    of where we might go in as a mandatory, I think that the people will
    respond. If we went in at Constantinople, for example, I think it is
    true that almost all the influential men who are prominent in the
    affairs of Bulgaria and were graduates of Robert College would be
    immediately susceptible to American interests. They would take
    American guidance when they would not take any other guidance.

    But I wish I could stay home and tackle this job with you. There is
    nothing I would like to do so much as really to say in parliamentary
    language what I think of the people that are opposing it. I would
    reserve the right in private to say in unparliamentary language what I
    think of them, but in public I would try to stick to parliamentary
    language. Because of all the blind and little, provincial people, they
    are the littlest and most contemptible. It is not their character so
    much that I have a contempt for, though that contempt is
    thoroughgoing, but their minds. They have not got even good working
    imitations of minds. They remind me of a man with a head that is not a
    head but is just a knot providentially put there to keep him from
    ravelling out, but why the Lord should not have been willing to let
    them ravel out I do not know, because they are of no use, and if I
    could really say what I think about them, it would be picturesque. But
    the beauty of it is that their ignorance and their provincialism can
    be made so perfectly visible. They have horizons that do not go beyond
    their parish; they do not even reach to the edges of the parish,
    because the other people know more than they do. The whole impulse of
    the modern time is against them. They are going to have the most
    conspicuously contemptible names in history. The gibbets that they are
    going to be executed on by future historians will scrape the heavens,
    they will be so high. They won't be turned in the direction of heaven
    at all, but they will be very tall, and I do not know any fate more
    terrible than to be exhibited in that future catalogue of the men who
    are utterly condemned by the whole spirit of humanity. If I did not
    despise them, I would be sorry for them.

    Now I have sometimes a very cheering thought. On the fifth of March,
    1921, I am going to begin to be an historian again instead of an
    active public man, and I am going to have the privilege of writing
    about these gentlemen without any restraints of propriety. The
    President, if my experience is a standard, is liable some day to burst
    by merely containing restrained gases. Anybody in the Senate or House
    can say any abusive thing he pleases about the President, but it
    shocks the sense of propriety of the whole country if the President
    says what he thinks about them. And that makes it very fortunate that
    the term of the President is limited, because no president could stand
    it for a number of years. But when the lid is off, I am going to
    resume my study of the dictionary to find adequate terms in which to
    describe the fatuity of these gentlemen with their poor little minds
    that never get anywhere but run around in a circle and think they are
    going somewhere. I cannot express my contempt for their intelligence,
    but because I think I know the people of the United States, I can
    predict their future with absolute certainty. I am not concerned as to
    the ultimate outcome of this thing at all, not for a moment, but I am
    concerned that the outcome should be brought about immediately, just
    as promptly as possible. So my hope is that we will all put on our war
    paint, not as Democrats but as Americans, get the true American
    pattern of war paint and a real hatchet and go out on the war path and
    get a collection of scalps that has never been excelled in the history
    of American warfare.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

JAPAN--SHANTUNG

One of the settlements embodied in the Versailles Treaty upon which the enemies of the President
in this country concentrated their fires of wrath and hatred against the President was the
so-called Shantung settlement. The partisan enemies of the President, realizing the irreconcilable
antagonism of certain of our people to the Japanese, did everything they could to intensify
this antagonism, picturing the President as one who had conceded something to Japan at the
expense of helpless China.

Not love of China, but hatred of Woodrow Wilson led partisan Republicans, without careful investigation
of the actual situation, to seize on the Shantung affair as an opportunity to embarrass the
President. The ignorances and prejudices of many of our people on the subject of China played
into the hands of those Republicans, whose main object was to injure the President and defeat
the Treaty. Very few sought to understand the settlement or to ascertain the facts that formed
the historic background of it.

These facts were clearly set forth by the President himself in a speech delivered at Los Angeles,
California, on September 20, 1919. The President said:

    Let me recall some circumstances which probably most of you have
    forgotten. I have to go back to the year 1898, for it was in March of
    that year that these cessions which formerly belonged to Germany were
    transferred to her by the Government of China. What had happened was
    that two German missionaries in China had been murdered. The Central
    Government at Peking had done everything that was in its power to do
    to quiet the local disturbances, to allay the local prejudice against
    foreigners which led to the murders, but had been unable to do so, and
    the German Government held them responsible, nevertheless, for the
    murder of the missionaries. It was not the missionaries that the
    German Government was interested in. That was a pretext. Germany
    insisted that, because this thing had happened for which the Peking
    Government could not really with justice be held responsible, a very
    large and important part of one of the richest provinces of China
    should be ceded to her for sovereign control, for a period of 99
    years, that she should have the right to penetrate the interior of
    that province with a railway, and that she should have the right to
    exploit any ores that lay within 30 miles either side of that railway.
    She forced the Peking Government to say that they did it in gratitude
    to the German Government for certain services which she was supposed
    to have rendered but never did render. That was the beginning. I do
    not know whether any of the gentlemen who are criticizing the present
    Shantung settlement were in public affairs at that time or not, but I
    will tell you what happened, so far as this Government was concerned.

    One of the most enlightened and humane presidents we have ever had was
    at the head of the Government--William McKinley, a man who loved his
    fellow men and believed in justice--and associated with him was one of
    our ablest secretaries of state--Mr. John Hay. The state of
    international law was such then that they did not feel at liberty to
    make even a protest against these concessions to Germany. Neither did
    they make any protest when, immediately following that, similar
    concessions were made to Russia, to Great Britain, and to France. It
    was almost immediately after that that China granted to Russia the
    right of the possession and control of Port Arthur and a portion of
    the region of Talienwan. Then England, not wishing to be outdone,
    although she had similar rights elsewhere in China, insisted upon a
    similar concession and got Weihaiwei. Then France insisted that she
    must have a port, and got it for 99 years. Not against one of those
    did the Government of the United States make any protest whatever.
    They only insisted that the door should not be shut in any of these
    regions against the trade of the United States. You have heard of Mr.
    Hay's policy of the open door. That was his policy of the open door--
    not the open door to the rights of China, but the open door to the
    goods of America. I want you to understand, my fellow countrymen, I am
    not criticizing this because, until we adopt the Covenant of the
    League of Nations, it is an unfriendly act for any government to
    interfere in the affairs of any other unless its own interests are
    immediately concerned. The only thing Mr. McKinley and Mr. Hay were at
    liberty to do was to call attention to the fact that the trade of the
    United States might be unfavourably affected and insist that in no
    circumstances it should be. They got from all of these powers the
    promise that it should not be a promise which was more or less kept.
    Following that came the war between Russia and Japan, and at the close
    of that war Japan got Port Arthur and all the rights which Russia
    enjoyed in China, just as she is now getting Shantung and the rights
    her recently defeated enemy had in China--an exactly similar
    operation. That peace that gave her Port Arthur was concluded, as you
    know, on the territory of the United States--at Portsmouth, N.H.
    Nobody dreamed of protesting against that. Japan had beaten Russia.
    Port Arthur did not at that time belong to China; it belonged for the
    period of the lease to Russia, and Japan was ceded what Japan had
    taken by the well-recognized processes of war.

    Very well, at the opening of this war, Japan went and took Kiauchow
    and supplanted Germany in Shantung Province. The whole process is
    repeated, but repeated with a new sanction. In the meantime, after
    this present war began, England and France, not at the same time, but
    successively, feeling that it was essential that they should have the
    assistance of Japan on the Pacific, agreed that if Japan would go into
    this war and take whatever Germany had in the Pacific she should
    retain everything north of the equator which had belonged to Germany.
    That treaty now stands. That treaty absolutely binds Great Britain and
    France. Great Britain and France can not in honour, having offered
    Japan this inducement to enter the war and continue her operations,
    consent to an elimination of the Shantung provision from the present
    treaty. Very well, let us put these gentlemen who are objecting to the
    Shantung settlement to the test. Are they ready to fight Great Britain
    and France and Japan, who will have to stand together, in order to get
    this province back for China? I know they are not, and their interest
    in China is not the interest of assisting China, but of defeating the
    Treaty. They know beforehand that a modification of the Treaty in that
    respect cannot be obtained, and they are insisting upon what they know
    is impossible; but if they ratify the Treaty and accept the Covenant
    of the League of Nations they do put themselves in a position to
    assist China. They put themselves in that position for the very first
    time in the history of international engagements. They change the
    whole faith of international affairs, because after you have read the
    much-debated Article 10 of the Covenant, I advise you to read Article
    11. Article 11 says that it shall be the friendly right of any member
    of the League to call attention at any time to anything, anywhere,
    that threatens to disturb the peace of the world or the good
    understanding between nations upon which the peace of the world
    depends. That in itself constitutes a revolution in international
    relationships. Anything that affects the peace of any part of the
    world is the business of every nation. It does not have simply to
    insist that its trade shall not be interfered with; it has the right
    to insist that the rights of mankind shall not be interfered with. Not
    only that, but back of this provision with regard to Shantung lies, as
    everybody knows or ought to know, a very honourable promise which was
    made by the Government of Japan in my presence in Paris, namely, that
    just as soon as possible after the ratification of this treaty they
    will return to China all sovereign rights in the Province of Shantung.
    Great Britain has not promised to return Weihaiwei; France has not
    promised to return her part. Japan has promised to relinquish all the
    sovereign rights which were acquired by Germany for the remaining 78
    of the 99 years of the lease, and to retain only what other
    governments have in many other parts of China, namely, the right to
    build and operate the railway under a corporation and to exploit the
    mines in the immediate neighbourhood of that railway. In other words,
    she retains only the rights of economic concessionaries. Personally, I
    am frank to say that I think all of these nations have invaded some of
    the essential rights of China by going too far in the concessions
    which they have demanded, but that is an old story now, and we are
    beginning a new story. In the new story we all have the right to balk
    about what they have been doing and to convince them, by the pressure
    of the public opinion of the world, that a different course of action
    would be just and right. I am for helping China and not turning away
    from the only way in which I can help her. Those are the facts about
    Shantung.

Of all the important decisions of the Peace Conference, none worried the President so much
as that relating to the Shantung settlement, and in a speech at Des Moines, on September 6,
1919, he expressed his dissatisfaction in the following words:

    There is the settlement, which you have heard so much discussed, about
    that rich and ancient province of Shantung in China. I do not like
    that settlement any better than you do, but these were the
    circumstances: In order to induce Japan to cooperate in the war and
    clear the Pacific of the German power, England, and subsequently
    France, bound themselves without any qualifications to see to it that
    Japan got anything in China that Germany had and that Japan would take
    it away from her, upon the strength of which promise Japan proceeded
    to take away Kiauchow and occupy the portions of Shantung Province
    which had been ceded by China for a term of years to Germany. The most
    that could be got out of it was that in view of the fact that America
    had nothing to do with it, the Japanese were ready to promise that
    they would give up every item of sovereignty which Germany would
    otherwise have enjoyed in Shantung Province and return it without
    restriction to China, and that they would retain in the province only
    the economic concessions such as other nations already had elsewhere
    in China--though you do not hear anything about that--concessions in
    the railway and the mines which had become attached to the railway for
    operative purposes. But suppose that you say that is not enough. Very
    well, then, stay out of the Treaty, and how will that accomplish
    anything? England and France are bound and cannot escape their
    obligation. Are you going to institute a war against Japan and France
    and England to get Shantung back for China? That is an operation which
    does not commend itself to the present generation.

Mr. Ray Stannard Baker, in his book "What Wilson Did in Paris," says:

    Of all the important decisions at the Peace Conference none worried
    the President so much as that relating to the disposition of the
    Shantung peninsula--and none, finally, satisfied him less. Not one of
    the problems he had to meet at Paris, serious as they all were, did he
    take more personally to heart than this. He told me on one occasion
    that he had been unable to sleep on the previous night for thinking of
    it.

    Those last days before the Treaty was finished were among the hardest
    of the entire Conference. As I have said before, the most difficult
    and dangerous problems had inevitably been left to the last, and had
    all to be finally settled in those crowded days of late April.

    Consider, for a moment, the exact situation at Paris on April 29th,
    when the Japanese-Chinese crises reached the explosive point.

    It was on that very day that the German delegates were coming morosely
    into Versailles, ready for a treaty that was not yet finished. The
    Three--for Orlando had then withdrawn from the Conference--had been
    gradually lengthening their sessions, the discussions were longer and
    more acrimonious. They were tired out. Only six days before, on April
    23rd, the High Council had been hopelessly deadlocked on the Italian
    question. The President had issued his bold message to the world
    regarding the disposition of Fiume and the Italian delegation departed
    from Paris with the expectation that their withdrawal would either
    force the hands of the Conference, or break it up.

    While this crisis was at its height the Belgian delegation, which had
    long been restive over the non-settlement of Belgian claims for
    reparations, became insistent. They had no place in the Supreme
    Council and they were worried lest the French and British--neither of
    whom could begin to get enough money out of Germany to pay for its
    losses--would take the lion's share and leave Belgium unrestored. The
    little nations were always worried at Paris lest the big ones take
    everything and leave them nothing! Very little appeared in the news at
    the time concerning the Belgian demands, but they reached practically
    an ultimatum: if Belgium were not satisfied she also would withdraw
    from the Conference and refuse to sign the Treaty.

    It was at this critical moment that the Chinese-Japanese question had
    to be settled. It had to be settled because the disposition of German
    rights in China (unlike Italian claims in the Adriatic) had to go into
    the German Treaty before it was presented to Brockdorff Rantzau and
    his delegates at Versailles; and because the Japanese would not sign
    the Treaty unless it was settled. The defection of Japan, added to
    that of Italy and the possible withdrawal of Belgium, would have made
    the situation desperate.

    The two principal things that Japan wanted at the Peace Conference
    were: first, a recognition in the Covenant of the League of Nations of
    the "equality of the nations and the just treatment of their
    nationals"; and, second, the recognition of certain rights over the
    former German concessions in China (Shantung.)

    After a struggle lasting all through the Conference, Japan had finally
    lost out, in the meeting of the League of Nations Commission on April
    11th, in her first great contention. She was refused the recognition
    of racial or even national equality which she demanded although a
    majority of the nations represented on the League of Nations
    Commission agreed with her that her desire for such recognition was
    just and should find a place in the Covenant....

    Few people realize how sharply the Japanese felt this hurt to their
    pride: and few people realize the meaning of this struggle, as a
    forerunner of one of the great coming struggles of civilization--the
    race struggle....

    Having lost out in their first great contention the Japanese came to
    the settlement of their second demand with a feeling of irritation but
    with added determination. The Japanese delegates were the least
    expressive of any at the Conference: they said the least: but they
    were the firmest of any in hewing to the line of their interests and
    their agreements. It must not be forgotten also, in all fairness, that
    the Japanese delegates, not less than the British, French, and
    American, had their own domestic political problems, and opposition,
    and that there was a powerful demand in Japan that, while all the
    other nations were securing some return for their losses and
    sacrifices in the war, Japan should also get some return.

    At the same time Japan was in a stronger position than any other of
    the Allied and Associated Powers except the United States. She had
    been little hurt, and much strengthened by the war. She was far
    distant from danger; she did not need the League of Nations as much as
    did the countries of Europe; and, more than anything else, she
    occupied a strong legal status, for her claims were supported by
    treaties both with China and the Allies; and she was, moreover, in a
    position, if she were rendered desperate, to take by force what she
    considered to be her rights if the Allies refused to accord them.

    At a dark moment of the war, the spring of 1917, the British and
    French, in order to sharpen Japanese support of the allied cause, made
    private agreements to sustain the claims of Japan at the Peace
    Conference to German rights in Shantung. It thus happened, in the
    Council of Three, for Orlando had then gone home, that two of the
    powers, Great Britain and France, were bound by their pledged word to
    Japan. Indeed, the British argued that they felt themselves indebted
    to the Japanese not only as a long-friendly ally but for helping to
    keep the Pacific free of the enemy while Australian troops were being
    transported to Europe and thus relieving a great burden for the
    British fleet. It must not be forgotten that China was also bound by
    the Treaty and Notes of 1915 and the Notes of 1918 with Japan--
    although China vigorously asserted that all of these agreements were
    entered into upon her part under coercion by Japan. In fact, one of
    the Chinese delegates at Paris had actually signed one of the
    agreements which he was now asking the Conference to overthrow.

    It was not only this wire entanglement of treaties which Mr. Wilson
    found in his advance, but it must be said, in all frankness, that, in
    opposing Japan's demands for economic privileges and a "sphere of
    influence" in China, he was also opposing a principle which every
    other strong nation at the Conference believed in and acted upon, if
    not in China, then elsewhere in the world. Japan asserted that she was
    only asking for the rights already conceded to other nations. Japan
    was thus in a very strong position in insisting upon her claims, and
    China in a very weak position.

    In this crisis Mr. Wilson was face to face with difficult
    alternatives. If he stood stiffly for immediate justice to China, he
    would have to force Great Britain and France to break their pledged
    word with Japan. Even if he succeeded in doing this, he still would
    have had to face the probability, practically the certainty, that
    Japan would withdraw from the Conference and go home. This would not
    only keep Japan out of the League, but it would go far toward
    eventually disrupting the Peace Conference, already shaken by the
    withdrawal of Italy and the dangerous defection of Belgium. Such a
    weakening of the Peace Conference and of the Alliance of the Great
    Powers would have the immediate effect of encouraging the Germans not
    to sign the Treaty and of holding off in the hope that the forces of
    industrial unrest then spreading all over Europe might overwhelm
    France or Italy. It would also have a highly irritating effect upon
    all the bolshevist elements in Europe--increasing uncertainty, and the
    spread of anarchical conditions. With Japan out of the association of
    western nations there was also the possibility, voiced just at this
    time in both French and British newspapers, that she would begin
    building up alliances of her own in the East--possibly with Germany
    and Russia. Indeed, if the truth were told, this was probably the most
    important consideration of all in shaping the final decision. It was
    the plain issue between the recrudescence, in a new and more dangerous
    form, of the old system of military alliances and balances of power,
    and the new system of world organization in a league of nations. It
    was the militaristic Prussian idea against the American Wilsonian
    idea.

    No statesman probably ever had a more difficult problem presented to
    him than did Mr. Wilson upon the momentous 29th of April, 1919. At
    that moment three things seemed of extreme importance if anything was
    to be saved out of the wreckage of the world. The first was a speedy
    peace, so that men everywhere might return to the work of production
    and reconstruction and the avenues of trade everywhere be opened.
    Peace and work! The second was of supreme importance--keeping the
    great Allies firmly welded together to steady a world which was
    threatened with anarchy. It was absolutely necessary to keep a going
    concern in the world! The third was to perpetuate this world
    organization in a league of nations: this the most important of all,
    for it had reference to the avalanche of new problems which were just
    ahead.

    If the Conference were broken up, or even if Italy remained out, and
    Japan went out, these things would be impossible. On the other hand,
    if the Allies could be kept firmly together, peace established, and a
    league of nations brought into being, there was a chance of going
    forward with world reconstruction on the broadest lines, and of the
    full realization of the principles of justice laid down in the
    Armistice terms and accepted by all nations. The Treaty, after all, is
    no final settlement; it is only one step in the great process of world
    reconstruction.

    It was with all these considerations in view that the Shantung
    settlement was made by the Council of Three sitting in the President's
    house in the Place des Etats-Unis--with the Japanese in full
    agreement.

    This settlement was in two parts, the first set forth in the Treaty
    itself, and the second a special agreement of the three Great Powers
    with Japan. I find that this fact is not clear to many people, who
    look for the entire settlement in the Treaty itself.

    Under sections 156, 157, and 158 of the Treaty all the rights at
    Kiauchow and in Shantung Province formerly belonging to Germany are
    transferred without reservation to Japan. This conforms broadly with
    the various treaties, and gives a proud nation what it considered its
    full rights.

    On the other hand, the Japanese delegates at the Conference, on behalf
    of their government, made a voluntary agreement "to hand back the
    Shantung peninsula in full sovereignty to China, retaining only the
    economic privileges granted to Germany and the right to establish a
    settlement under the usual conditions at Tsingtao."

    Under this agreement, by which Japan makes an unqualified recession of
    the sovereign rights in Shantung to China, she also agrees to remove
    all Japanese troops remaining on the peninsula "at the earliest
    possible time."

    Japan thus gets only such rights as an economic concessionaire as are
    already possessed by one or two great powers and the whole future
    relationship between the two countries falls at once under the
    guarantee of the League of Nations, by the provisions of which the
    territorial integrity and political independence of China will be
    insured.

    If the President had risked everything in standing for the immediate
    and complete realization of the Chinese demands, and had broken up the
    Conference upon that issue, it would not have put Japan either
    politically or economically out of China. Neither our people nor the
    British would go to war with Japan solely to keep her out of Shantung.
    The only hope of China in the future--and Wilson looks not only to the
    removal of the sphere of influence which Japan controls but to the
    removal of all other spheres of foreign influence in China--is
    through a firm world organization, a league of nations in which these
    problems can be brought up for peaceful settlement.... "The
    settlement, of course, was a compromise: a balance of considerations.
    It was the problem of the President, all through the Conference, when
    to 'accommodate' and when to use decided policies. 'The wisdom of the
    statesman,' said Cavour (quoted by Thayer in his admirable 'Life'),
    'consists in discerning when the time has come for the one or the
    other.'"

    "The Shantung decision is about as good a settlement as could be had
    out of a dirty past."

Even I felt bitterly critical of what seemed to me to be the President's surrender to Japan
in the matter of Shantung. But when he returned and told me the whole story and explained the
complicated and delicate world situation which confronted him, I agreed with him that he had
obtained out of a bad mess the best possible settlement.

In addition to the various cabled messages which passed between the President and myself, which
will be found in Appendix "C," was the following:

  Received at The White House, Washington,
  April 30, 1919.

  Paris
  TUMULTY, White House,
    Washington.

    The Japanese-Chinese matter has been settled in a way which seems to
    me as satisfactory as could be got out of the tangle of treaties in
    which China herself was involved, and it is important that the exact
    facts should be known. I therefore send you the following for public
    use at such time as the matter may come under public discussion. Owners
    of the railway will use special police only to insure security for
    traffic. They will be used for no other purpose. The police force will
    be composed of Chinese and such Japanese instructors as the directors
    of the railway may select will be appointed by the Chinese government
    End quote. I find a general disposition to
    look with favour upon the proposal that at an early date throughout
    the mediation of the League of Nations all extraordinary foreign
    rights in China and all spheres of influence should be abrogated by
    the common consent of all the nations concerned. I regard the
    assurances given by Japan as very satisfactory in view of the
    complicated circumstances. Please do not give out any of the above as
    a quotation from me, but use it in some other form for public
    information at the right time.

    WOODROW WILSON.

CHAPTER XXXIX

IRELAND

To one standing on the side-lines in the capital of the nation and witnessing the play of the
ardent passions of the people of the Irish race, demanding that some affirmative action be
taken by our government to bring about the realization of the right of self-determination for
Ireland, it seemed as if the American President, Woodrow Wilson, who first gave utterance to
the ideal of self-determination for all the oppressed peoples of the world, was woefully unmindful
of the age-long struggle that Irishmen had been making to free their own beloved land from
British domination. But to those, like myself, who were on the inside of affairs, it was evident
that in every proper and legitimate way the American President was cautiously searching for
efficient means to advance the cause of self-government in Ireland and to bring about a definite
and satisfactory solution of this complicated problem.

Embarrassed as he was by a delicate diplomatic situation, which to a great extent governed
his conduct, he was not free openly to espouse the cause of Ireland. To have done so would
have been to add difficulties to an already chaotic world situation. He was compelled in what
he was seeking to do for Ireland to move quietly and by informal conferences impressively to
lay the case of Ireland before those who sought his counsel in the matter. Unfortunately, these
quiet methods of helpfulness which he brought to the task were the things that drew the fire
of criticism and even distrust of many men of the Irish race in America, who in their passionate
devotion to the cause which lay so close to their hearts could see only a direct route to accomplishing
what they had in mind.

Long before the European war the President and I had often discussed the Irish cause and how
to make his influence felt in a way that would bring results without becoming involved in diplomatic
snarls with Great Britain. He was of the opinion that the Irish problem could not be settled
by force, for the spirit of Ireland, which for centuries had been demanding justice, was unconquerable.
He pointed out to me on many occasions when we discussed this delicate matter, that the policy
of force and reprisal which the English Government had for centuries practised in had but strengthened
the tenacious purpose of the Irish people and had only succeeded in keeping under the surface
the seething dissatisfaction of that indomitable race.

I recall that at the conclusion of one of our talks after a Cabinet meeting, shaking his head
as if he despaired of a settlement, the President said: "European statesmen can never learn
that humanity can be welded together only by love, by sympathy, and by justice, and not by
jealousy and hatred." He was certain that the failure of England to find an adjustment was
intensifying feeling not only in our own country, but throughout the world, and that the agitation
for a settlement would spread like a contagion and would inevitably result in a great national
crisis.

An interesting comment on the President's attitude toward the Irish question appears in an
article in the Atlantic Monthly for October, 1921. The article is by Joseph Fort Newton, in
his series, "Preaching in London." The comment is as follows:

    To-day a distinguished London minister told me a story about the
    President, for which he vouches. He had it from the late Sylvester
    Horne--Member of Parliament and minister of Whitefield's Chapel--who
    had known the President for years before he was elevated to his high
    office. Home happened to be in America--where he was always a welcome
    guest--before the war, shortly after the President was inaugurated,
    and he called at the White House to pay his respects. In the course of
    the talk, he expressed satisfaction that the relations between England
    and America would be in safe hands while the President was in office.
    The President said nothing, and Horne wondered at it. Finally he
    forced the issue, putting it as a question point-blank. The President
    said, addressing him in the familiar language of religious fellowship:
    "Brother Horne, one of the greatest calamities that has befallen
    mankind will come during my term of office. It will come from Germany.
    Go home and settle the Irish question, and there will be no doubt as
    to where America will stand."

In discussing the matter with me, he said: "The whole policy of Great Britain in its treatment
of the Irish question has unfortunately been based upon a policy of fear and not a policy of
trusting the Irish people. How magnificently the policy of trust and faith worked out in the
case of the Boers. Unfortunately, the people of Ireland now believe that the basis of England's
policy toward them is revenge, malice, and destruction. You remember, Tumulty, how the haters
of the South in the days of reconstruction sought to poison Lincoln's mind by instilling into
it everything that might lead him in his treatment of the South toward a policy of reprisal,
but he contemptuously turned away from every suggestion as a base and ignoble thing. Faith
on the part of Great Britain in the deep humanity and inherent generosity of the Irish people
is the only force that will ever lead to a settlement of this question. English statesmen must
realize that in the last analysis force never permanently settles anything. It only produces
hatreds and resentments that make a solution of any question difficult and almost impossible.
I have tried to impress upon the Englishmen with whom I have discussed this matter that there
never can be a real comradeship between America and England until this issue is definitely
settled and out of the way."

Many times in informal discussions with British representatives that came to the White House
the President sought to impress upon them the necessity for a solution, pointing out to them
how their failure was embarrassing our relations with Great Britain at every point. I am sure
that if he could with propriety have done so, Woodrow Wilson would long ago have directly suggested
to Great Britain a settlement of the Irish question, but, unfortunately, serious diplomatic
obstacles lay in the way of an open espousal of the Irish cause. He was sadly aware that under
international law no nation has the right to interest itself in anything that directly concerns
the affairs of another friendly nation, for by the traditions of diplomacy such "interference"
puts in jeopardy the cordial relations of the nations involved in such controversy.

Long before he became president, Woodrow Wilson had eloquently declared his attitude with reference
to self-government for Ireland and had openly espoused the cause of Irish freedom. In a speech
delivered at New Brunswick, New Jersey, on October 26, 1910, he said:

    Have you read the papers recently attentively enough to notice the
    rumours that are coming across the waters? What are the rumours? The
    rumours are that the English programme includes, not only self-
    government for Ireland, but self government for Scotland, and the
    drawing together in London or somewhere else of a parliament which
    will represent the British Empire in a great confederated state upon
    the model, no doubt, of the United States of America, and having its
    power to the end of the world. What is at the bottom of that
    programme? At the bottom of it is the idea that no little group of men
    like the English people have the right to govern men in all parts of
    the world without drawing them into real substantial partnership,
    where their voice will count with equal weight with the voice of other
    parts of the country.

    This voice that has been crying in Ireland, this voice for home rule,
    is a voice which is now supported by the opinion of the world; this
    impulse is a spirit which ought to be respected and recognized in the
    British Constitution. It means not mere vague talk of men's rights,
    men's emotions, and men's inveterate and traditional principles, but
    it means the embodiment of these things in something that is going to
    be done, that will look with hope to the programme that may come out
    of these conferences.

    If those who conduct the Government of Great Britain are not careful
    the restlessness will spread with rapid agitation until the whole
    country is aflame, and then there will be revolution and a change of
    government.

In this speech he plainly indicated that his plan for the settlement of the Irish question
was the establishment of some forum to which the cause of Ireland might be brought, where the
full force of the public opinion of the world, including the United States, could be brought
to play in a vigorous and whole-hearted insistence upon a solution of this world- disturbing
question.

As we read the daily papers, containing accounts of the disturbances in Ireland, what a prophetic
vision underlay the declaration contained in the speech of Woodrow Wilson in 1910!

I recall his passionate resentment of the attitude and threats of Sir Edward Carson, leader
of the Unionist forces in the British Parliament, when he read the following statement of Carson
carried in the American Press, after the passage of Home Rule through the House of Lords: "In
the event of this proposed parliament being thrust upon us, we solemnly and mutually pledge
ourselves not to recognize its authority. I do not care two pence whether this is treason or not."

Discussing Carson's utterance the President said: "I would like to be in Mr. Asquith's place.
I would show this rebel whether he would recognize the authority of the Government or flaunt
it. He ought to be hanged for treason. If Asquith does not call this gentleman's bluff, the
contagion of unrest and rebellion in Ireland will spread until only a major operation will
save the Empire. Dallying with gentlemen of this kind who openly advocate revolution will only
add to the difficulties. If those in authority in England will only act firmly now, their difficulties
will be lessened. A little of the firmness and courage of Andrew Jackson would force a settlement
of the Irish question right now."

The President did not agree with the friends of Irish freedom in America that coercive methods
put upon England through the instrumentality of the United States could accomplish anything.
When he left for the other side to take part in the Peace Conference, the future of Ireland
was much in his thoughts, but his solution of the problem lay in the establishment of a forum
under the League of Nations before which not only the cause of Ireland but the cause of any
oppressed people might be brought to the judgment of mankind.

Ireland's affairs were always in the background of the President's thoughts and he welcomed
conversations with those who were in a position to offer helpful suggestions. I append a correspondence,
intimate in character and now for the first time "exposed to the public view," between the
President, Mr. Sidney Brooks, a noted English writer, and myself:

    Friday, April 20, 1917.

    DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:

    After several months in America I am now returning to England,
    returning, I need not say, in a very happy mood and with the
    consciousness that the relations between our two countries are at
    length set fair. There is nothing nearer to my heart than improving
    them, and I believe I see how they could be improved and particularly
    how the last great obstacle to their betterment--I mean, of course,
    Ireland--could be lessened, if not removed. I should very greatly
    value an opportunity of setting before you some views I have formed on
    the matter, if an opportunity could be found before the arrival of the
    British Commission.

    I leave Washington on Sunday and sail for England on the following
    Saturday, but not, I trust, without being able to pay you my respects
    and say my adieux in person.

    Believe me, dear Mr. President,

    Yours very sincerely,
      SIDNEY BROOKS.

    THE PRESIDENT,
      The White House.

In forwarding this letter to the President, I accompanied it by the following note:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    April 20, 1917.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    I just had a little talk with Sidney Brooks who says he has been in
    correspondence with Lloyd George and Lord Northcliffe with reference
    to the Home Rule question. He believes that just a little push by you
    in your private talk with Mr. Balfour would put over home rule. He
    says if you could bring home to Balfour the amount of American public
    sentiment which favours it and how a denial of it is working to the
    disadvantage of England in this country, it would make a great
    impression. He says after the war there will of course be a great and
    generous cooperation between England and this country; but that there
    will never be genuine cooperation between the people of America and
    the people of England until the Irish question is settled.

    Sincerely yours,
      TUMULTY.

The President replied to me in the following note:

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    Confidentially (for I beg that you will be careful not to speak of or
    intimate this), I have been doing a number of things about this which
    I hope may bear fruit.

    THE PRESIDENT.

Mr. John D. Crimmins, a leading Irish sympathizer, addressed the following letter to the President:

    Washington, D. C., April 28, 1917.

   MY DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:

    The press this morning leads to the impression that at some timely
    hour, in your own manner, you will have a word on the Irish problem
    that at this moment appears to be near solution.

    It would be most timely and would have the heartfelt gratitude of
    millions of people in this and other lands who have long hoped, and
    many prayed, for Ireland as a small nation to have autonomy, thereby
    establishing peace with England and among English-speaking people.
    Then if an emergency should arise there would be all for one and one
    for all. Mr. President, you have gone a long step in that direction in
    declaring the rights of small nations--another step may be the means
    of reaching the goal for the Irish people.

    Faithfully yours,
      JOHN D. CRIMMINS.

    His Excellency,
    Woodrow Wilson.

The President read this letter with a great deal of interest and sent me the following note,
evidencing his sincere interest in all that Mr. Crimmins had said:

    DEAR TUMULTY:

    You are right about Mr. Crimmins having been a good friend, but I
    don't like to write any letters on this subject at present. I would
    appreciate it very much if you would assure him of my interest and of
    your knowledge of the fact that I am showing in every way I possibly
    can my sympathy with the claim of Ireland for home rule.

    THE PRESIDENT.

On December 3, 1919, Bishop Shahan, of the Catholic University, addressed a letter to the President
in behalf of the rector and faculties of the Catholic University of America with reference
to the question of Home Rule, to which the President replied:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    3 December, 1919.

    MY DEAR BISHOP SHAHAN:

    Allow me to acknowledge your letter of November 30th written in behalf
    of the rector and faculties of the Catholic University of America, and
    to say that it will be my endeavour in regard to every question which
    arises before the Peace Conference to do my utmost to bring about the
    realization of the principles to which your letter refers. The
    difficulties and delicacy of the task are very great, and I cannot
    confidently forecast what I can do. I can only say that I shall be
    watchful of every opportunity to insist upon the principles I have
    enunciated.

    Cordially and sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    The Rt. Rev. Thomas J. Shahan, Rector,
      Catholic University of America,
      Washington, D. C.

On December 3, 1918, he addressed a letter to Senator Thomas J. Walsh, of Montana, as follows:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    3 December, 1919.

    MY DEAR SENATOR:

    I appreciate the importance of a proper solution of the Irish question
    and thank you for the suggestions of your letter of yesterday. Until I
    get on the other side and find my footing in delicate matters of this
    sort I cannot forecast with any degree of confidence what influence I
    can exercise, but you may be sure that I shall keep this important
    interest in mind and shall use my influence at every opportunity to
    bring about a just and satisfactory solution.

    I greatly value the expressions of your confidence and feel very much
    strengthened by them.

    With the best wishes,

    Cordially and sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    Hon. Thomas J. Walsh,
      United States Senate.

While the President was in Paris, I constantly kept him in touch with the situation in this
country, and that he was interested in bringing to the attention of the Peace Conference the
cause of Ireland is made clear by the following cables that were exchanged between us.

On June 7, 1919, I cabled Admiral Grayson, for the President as follows:

    The White House, Washington,
    7 June, 1919.

    You cannot overestimate real intensity of feeling behind Irish
    question here. It is growing every day and is not at all confined to
    Irishmen. The passage of resolution of sympathy with almost unanimous
    vote in Senate last night is but a slight evidence of interest here. I
    wish the President could do just a little for I fear reaction here
    upon League of Nations. If this situation could be straightened out,
    it would help a great deal.

    TUMULTY.

The President himself replied to this cable, showing the depth of his interest in the matter:

    Paris, 8 June, 1919.

    I have tried to help in the Irish matter, but the extraordinary
    indiscretion of the American delegation over here has almost
    completely blocked everything.

    WOODROW WILSON.

On June 9, 1919, I received a further cable from the President, as follows:

    Paris, 9 June, 1919.

    The American Committee of Irishmen have made it exceedingly difficult,
    if not impossible, to render the assistance we were diligently trying
    to render in the matter of bringing the Irish aspirations to the
    attention of the Peace Conference. By our unofficial activity in the
    matter we had practically cleared the way for the coming of the Irish
    Representatives to Paris when the American Commission went to Ireland
    and behaved in a way which so inflamed British opinion that the
    situation has got quite out of hand, and we are utterly at a loss how
    to act in the matter without involving the Government of the United
    States with the Government of Great Britain in a way which might
    create an actual breach between the two. I made an effort day before
    yesterday in this matter which shows, I am afraid, the utter futility
    of further efforts. I am distressed that the American Commission
    should have acted with such extreme indiscretion and lack of sense,
    and can at the moment see nothing further to do.

    WOODROW WILSON.

To this cable I replied as follows:

    The White House, Washington,
    9 June, 1919.

    Thanks for message about Ireland, Hope you will not allow
    indiscretions of American Commission to influence your judgment
    against Ireland. Lloyd George's mistakes in handling this will be his
    undoing, for it has in it the elements of a revolution. It is our own
    political situation here and the fate of the Treaty itself that
    concern me. In this country the Irish are united in this matter and in
    every large city and town are carrying on a propaganda, asking that
    Ireland be given the right of self-determination. George Creel, in a
    powerful article yesterday in the newspapers, said: Quote The
    question of Ireland cannot be ignored, either in honour or decency
    End quote. I trust you can say a word. Could you not ask that Irish
    delegates be given a chance to present their case to the Conference?

    TUMULTY.

On June 25, 1919, I sent the following cable to the President:

    General Maurice, in wonderful article in New York Times on League of
    Nations, says about Ireland: Quote One obvious need to complete the
    process of bringing all nations together is that we should show that
    we know what America did in the war, but there is another obvious
    need, which presents greater difficulties. We must have a policy in
    regard to Ireland, which we can explain to the American people. At
    present Ireland threatens to reopen all the rifts which comradeship in
    the war is closing End quote.

    The New York Evening Post of last night prints the following
    editorial:

    Quote Self-Government for the Irish people, short of independence,
    is a right and a necessity, and it is a satisfaction that once more a
    movement is under way for the establishment of Ireland on the basis
    which logic and history have determined--a dominion on an equal
    footing with the other dominions under the British crown End quote.

    Frankly, this represents the opinion of the average man in America,
    without regard to race or religion. The arrival of De Valera in
    America is going to intensify the feeling and the Republicans will
    take full advantage of it. Now that the League of Nations is on its
    feet, we should take the lead in this matter. It would do more toward
    bringing about a real comradeship between England and America than
    anything that could happen. I think that the situation in Africa,
    India, and the seriousness of the situation in Canada, will inevitably
    force England to consider these matters. It is in anticipation of this
    that I am anxious to have you play a leading part in this situation.
    It would do much to make the League of Nations a living, vital force
    in the affairs of the world. There are no boundary lines between free
    peoples any more.

    TUMULTY.

           *       *       *       *       *

    TUMULTY,
      White House, Washington.

    Paris,
      June 27, 1919.

    I entirely agree with the general tenor of your cable of the twenty-
    fifth about the Irish question and I firmly believe when the League of
    Nations is once organized it will afford a forum not now available for
    bringing the opinion of the world and of the United States in
    particular to bear on just such problems.

    WOODROW WILSON.

Of course, the thing which lay close to Woodrow Wilson's heart was the setting up of the League
of Nations. Unless England and France should consent to the establishment of a league as part
of a world settlement, any solution of the Irish question through the influence of world opinion
was not in the reckoning. The wise, prudent thing, therefore, to do was first to establish
a world court before which the cause of any oppressed peoples might be brought. This is just
what he had in mind and what he succeeded in doing. To have thrust a settlement of Ireland's
affairs into the foreground of the Peace Conference and to have made it a sine qua non would
have been futile and foolish and might have resulted in disaster. Unfortunately, the friends
of Irish freedom, deprecating and bitterly resenting well-considered methods like this, were
desirous of having the matter thrust into the early conferences at Paris. The President knew
that England would never consent to this and would resent any attempt on his part to carry
out idea. If the President had done so, England would undoubtedly have withdrawn from the Conference
and thus the great cause of the League of Nations, which formed the foundation stone upon which
the Armistice was based, would have gone by the board. The President was looking far beyond
a mere recognition of the Irish Republic. He was seeking to accomplish its security and guarantee
its permanency through the instrumentality of a world court like the League of Nations. What
would it have availed Ireland to have been granted Dominion government or independence unless
contemporaneously with the grant there was set up an instrumentality that would guarantee and
protect it? The only thing upon which the Peace Conference functioned was the settlement of
the affairs of those nations affected by the war.

Why didn't Wilson bring Ireland's cause to the attention of the Peace Conference? was the query
which frequently reached us at the White House. The President in his Western speeches discussed
this matter in the following way:

"It was not within the privilege of the Conference of peace to act upon the right of self-determination
of any peoples except those which had been included in the territories of the defeated empires--that
is to say, it was not then within their power--but the moment the Covenant of the League of
Nations is adopted it becomes their right. If the desire for self- determination of any people
in the world is likely to affect the peace of the world or the good understanding between nations
it becomes the business of the League; it becomes the right of any member of the League to
call attention to it; it becomes the function of the League to bring the whole process of the
opinion of the world to bear upon that very matter.

"Article XI is the favourite article in the Treaty so far as I am concerned. In other words,
at present we have to mind our own business, under the rules of diplomacy and established custom.
Under the covenant of the League of Nations we can mind other people's business, and anything
that affects the peace of the world, whether we are parties to it or not, can by our delegates
be brought to the attention of mankind. We can force a nation on the other side of the globe
to bring to that bar of mankind any wrong that is afoot in that part of the world which is
likely to affect the good understanding between nations, and we can oblige them to show cause
why it should not be remedied. There is not an oppressed people in the world which cannot henceforth
get a hearing at that forum, and you know what a hearing will mean if the cause of those people
is just. The one thing that those doing injustice have most reason to dread is publicity and
discussion. At present what is the state of international law and understanding? No nation
has the right to call attention to anything that does not directly affect its own affairs.
If it does, it cannot only be told to mind its own business, but it risks the cordial relationship
between itself and the nation whose affairs it draws under discussion; whereas, under Article
XI, which I had the honour of advocating, the very sensible provision is made that the peace
of the world transcends all the susceptibilities of nations and governments, and that they
are obliged to consent to discuss and explain anything which does affect the good understanding
between nations."

Sir Frederick Pollock, in his valuable work on the League of Nations, comments pointedly on
this privilege:

    Various Irish writers, including some who deserve serious attention,
    have raised the question whether the standing problem of Irish
    autonomy can come before the League of Nations. There is only one way
    in which this could happen--namely, that the Government of the United
    States should declare Irish-American sympathy with unsatisfied
    nationalist claims in Ireland to be capable of disturbing good
    understanding between Great Britain and the United States. That is a
    possible event if a solution is not reached within a reasonable time,
    but it is more likely that a confidential intimation from the United
    States would not only precede a formal reference to the Council, but
    avoid the necessity for it.

 The friends of Ireland in this country have often asked me the question:
"Would Woodrow Wilson have intervened in behalf of Ireland?"

 I can answer this question only by saying that Ireland has never had a
truer friend than Woodrow Wilson. From the day that we went to war it has
been his steadfast purpose to induce the Government of England to settle
the Irish question justly and permanently. His statesmanlike approach to a
settlement of the problem is the only one that holds hope of success.

 As I completed this chapter, an article appeared in a Washington
newspaper apparently confirmatory of the President's foresight, showing
that by September, 1921, Mr. De Valera had arrived at the same view. The
article seems to show Mr. De Valera as insisting that the British
Government grant Ireland membership in the League of Nations as one of the
guarantees of autonomy.

 As for myself, I believe that Ireland is going to be free in company with
the rest of the world and in accordance with a new world order which shall
function through the machinery for justice and liberty which is provided
for in the Covenant of the League of Nations, and is provided for nowhere
else.

CHAPTER XL

PROHIBITION

One of the things for which the Wilson Administration was held to "strict accountability" was
the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, establishing nation-wide
prohibition.

Unfair critics of the President, in their foolish attempt to charge the Administration with
every unusual happening in the eight years of Democratic control, had stated that the President
was the real motive force that lay back of the movement to establish the Eighteenth Amendment
as part of the fundamental law of the country. As a matter of fact, during the discussion of
this amendment in the Senate and House, the President maintained toward it an attitude of absolute
neutrality. While he was an ardent advocate of temperance, he felt that Congress in enforcing
the amendment by the passage of the Volstead Act, so extreme and unreasonable in character,
had gone a long way toward alienating the support of every temperance-loving citizen in the
country, and that certain of its provisions had struck at the foundation of our government
by its arbitrary interference with personal liberty and freedom. He felt that the practical
unanimity with which the Eighteenth Amendment was supported arose from a nation-wide resentment
against abuses by the American saloon and the economic evils that had grown out of the unorganized
liquor traffic. He felt that it was unreasonable for Congress, in the Volstead Act, to declare
any beverage containing an excess of one half of one per cent. of alcohol intoxicating and
that to frame a law which arbitrarily places intoxicating and non-intoxicating beverages within
the same classification was openly to invite mental resentment against it. He was of the opinion
that it required no compromise or weakening of the Eighteenth Amendment in order to deal justly
and fairly with the serious protests that followed the enactment into law of the Volstead Act.
He was, therefore, in favour of permitting the manufacture and sale, under proper governmental
regulations, of light wines and beers, which action in his opinion would make it much easier
to enforce the amendment in its essential particulars and would help to end the illicit traffic
in liquor which the Volstead Act fostered by its very severity. This would put back of the
enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment the public sentiment always necessary to the execution
of laws. Satisfied with a reasonable recognition of their rights to personal liberty and control
of their personal habits, he believed that the American people would be the readier to turn
their attention to the grave issues of reconstruction and steadier in meeting these issues
which would test to the utmost our capacity for progressive self-government.

Time and time again when we discussed the Volstead Act, he would say: "The wrong way of doing
the right thing. You cannot regulate the morals and habits of a great cosmopolitan people by
placing unreasonable restrictions upon their liberty and freedom. All such attempts can only
end in failure and disappointment. In the last analysis, in these matters that seek to regulate
personal habits and customs, public opinion is the great regulator."

In New Jersey, where he served as governor, the liquor question had been for many years a burning
issue and had been thrust into every gubernatorial campaign up to the time when Woodrow Wilson
as governor took hold of the situation. Many political futures had been wrecked and wasted
by ambitious politicians who tried to "pussyfoot" on this issue. But there was no shying away
from it by Woodrow Wilson. When the question was presented to him by the ardent advocates of
the Anti-Saloon League early in his administration as governor, without evasion of any kind,
he stated his views in the following letter addressed to the head of the Anti-Saloon League:

    Executive Office,
      Trenton, New Jersey.

    I am in favour of local option. I am a thorough believer in local
    self-government and believe that every self-governing community which
    constitutes a social unit should have the right to control the matter
    of the regulation or the withholding of licenses.

    But the questions involved are social and moral, not political, and
    are not susceptible of being made parts of a party programme. Whenever
    they have been made the subject matter of party contests, they have
    cut the lines of party organization and party action athwart, to the
    utter confusion of political action in every other field. They have
    thrown every other question, however important, into the background
    and have made constructive party action impossible for long years
    together.

    So far as I am myself concerned, therefore, I can never consent to
    have the question of local option made an issue between political
    parties in this state. My judgment is very clear in this matter. I do
    not believe that party programmes of the highest consequence to the
    political life of the state and the nation ought to be thrust to one
    side and hopelessly embarrassed for long periods together by making a
    political issue of a great question that is essentially non-
    political, non-partisan, moral and social in its nature.

Holding these views, that the liquor question was one which was "essentially non-political,
non-partisan, moral and social in its nature," the President refused by any act of his to influence
public opinion when the Eighteenth Amendment was up for consideration in the Senate and House.

He deeply resented and strenuously opposed the passage of war-time prohibition as uncalled
for and unnecessary. In his opinion, it was not a food-conservation measure, but an out-and-out
attempt by the anti-saloon forces to use the war emergency to declare the country "dry" by
Congressional action. There was another reason for his attitude of opposition to war-time prohibition.
He believed with an embargo placed upon beer, the consumption of whiskey, of which there were
large stocks in the country, would be stimulated and increased to a great extent. In this opinion
he was supported by Mr Herbert Hoover, Food Administrator. In a letter of May 28, 1918, to
Senator Sheppard, the leader of the prohibition forces in the Senate, he explained his opposition
to war-time prohibition in these words:

    THE WHITE HOUSE,
      WASHINGTON

    May 28, 1918.

    HON. MORRIS SHEPPARD,
      United States Senate.

    MY DEAR SENATOR:

    I was very much distressed by the action of the House. I do not think
    that it is wise or fair to attempt to put such compulsion on the
    Executive in a matter in which he has already acted almost to the
    limit of his authority. What is almost entirely overlooked is that
    there were, as I am informed, very large stocks of whiskey in this
    country, and it seems to me quite certain that if the brewing of beer
    were prevented entirely, along with all other drinks, many of them
    harmless, which are derived from food and food stuffs, the consumption
    of whiskey would be stimulated and increased to a very considerable
    extent.

    My own judgment is that it is wise and statesmanlike to let the
    situation stand as it is for the present, until at any rate I shall be
    apprised by the Food Administration that it is necessary in the way
    suggested still further to conserve the supply of food and food
    stuffs. The Food Administration has not thought it necessary to go any
    further than we have in that matter already gone.

    I thank you most cordially, Senator, for your kindness in consulting
    me in this matter, which is of very considerable importance, and has a
    very distinct bearing upon many collateral questions.

    Cordially and sincerely yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

War-time prohibition was ingenuously made part of the Agricultural Appropriation Bill, which
contained many items necessary for the effective prosecution of the war. So strongly did the
President feel about the matter, that I am frank to say that if war-time prohibition had stood
alone and was disconnected from any other bill, I believe it would have been vetoed.

After the Armistice, agitation at once began, inspired by the "dry" advocates throughout the
country, to prolong war-time prohibition, but the President felt that the object and purpose
of war-time prohibition, if any ever existed, having been served, it was only right, proper,
and fair that there should be an immediate repeal of it, and that only resentment and restlessness
throughout the country would follow the attempt to prolong war-time prohibition beyond the
time provided in the statute which created it.

It was unfortunate that the "dry" advocates did not see the thing through the eyes of the President.
Apparently not fully satisfied with the victory they had won through the adoption of the Eighteenth
Amendment, they sought to push the advantage thus gained still further, and through war-time
prohibition to establish their policy of restriction as a permanent policy of the country.
Realizing that prohibition as a permanent policy and by constitutional amendment had been definitely
established in a constitutional way, the President was reluctant to take a stand that would
even in spirit be a violation of this, but he also felt that the "dry" advocates were simply
using a war crisis ruthlessly to press forward their views and to cajole vacillating congressmen
into supporting it because it was known as a "dry" measure. In a letter which I addressed to
the President on September 7, 1918, I strongly urged the veto of the Agricultural Appropriation
Bill containing war-time prohibition:

    THE WHITE HOUSE
      WASHINGTON

    September 7, 1918.

    MY DEAR GOVERNOR:

    In the discussion we had a few days ago with reference to the pending
    "dry" legislation, I tried to emphasize the fact that under the Food
    Control Law you had the power to do what Congress is now seeking to do
    in a way that will cause great irritation. Your action of yesterday
    fixing December first as the day on which the prohibition of the
    manufacture of beer is to take place, I believe, strengthens what I
    said. Your action and the action of the Senate a day or two ago in
    giving you the right to establish zones about shipyards and munitions
    plants again shows the unnecessary character of this legislation. You
    are, therefore, now in a strong position to veto this legislation as
    unnecessary and unwarranted.

    In view of all of this, I wish to emphasize the dangers, both of a
    political and industrial character, that confront us should we agree
    to go forward with those who favour legislation of this radical and
    restricted character. Even the most ardent prohibitionists fear the
    reactionary effect of this legislation upon the pending constitutional
    amendment. I am afraid of its effects upon the voters of our party in
    the large centres of population throughout the country, and of the
    deep resentment from all classes that is bound to follow.

    In matters of legislation that seek to regulate the morals and habits
    of the people, the average American feels the only safe course to
    follow is the method set forth in the Constitution for the regulation
    of these vital matters. The proponents of this measure agree that it
    is not a conservation measure, but that it is an out-and-out attempt
    to declare the country "dry." In my opinion, it is mob legislation,
    pure and simple.

    The danger of submitting quietly to any class legislation that has its
    basis in intolerance, especially at a time like this where the
    emotions of people can be whipped into a fury, is obvious. Your
    strength in the country comes from the feeling on the part of the
    people that under no circumstances can you be "hazed" by any class. If
    you yield in this instance, similar demands from other sources will
    rise to harass and embarrass you.

    The viewpoint of the gentlemen on the Hill in charge of this bill is
    provincial. They have no idea of the readjustments that will have to
    come in the finances of our largest cities and municipalities through
    the country. Tax rates are bound to go up. Increased taxation in large
    cities, coming at a time when federal taxes are growing more
    burdensome, is bound to play a large part in the opinion of the
    people, and we cannot escape our responsibility if we seem to be
    afraid to oppose legislation of this kind. Our policy in every matter
    at this time should be one based upon magnanimity and tolerance toward
    every class and interest in the country.

Under date of May 9, 1919, I sent the following cable to the President who was then in Paris:

    I sincerely hope you will consider the advisability of raising the
    embargo on beer. The most violent reaction has taken place throughout
    the country since the enactment of this law, especially in the larger
    cities. It is not, I assure you, the result of brewery propaganda. It
    comes from many of the humbler sort who resent this kind of federal
    interference with their rights. We are being blamed for all this
    restrictive legislation because you insist upon closing down all
    breweries and thus making prohibition effective July first. The
    country would be more ready to accept prohibition brought about by
    Constitutional amendment than have it made effective by Presidential
    ukase. The psychological effect of raising this embargo would be of
    incalculable benefit to America in every way at this time. The
    Springfield Republican says, Quote The establishment of national
    prohibition by Federal statute, through the mere act of Congress, does
    not appeal to one as so desirable as the establishment of national
    prohibition by the direct action of three fourths of the states End
    Quote. The war-time Prohibition Law, according to the text of the
    Act, was enacted for the purpose of conserving the man-power of the
    nation and to increase the efficiency in the production of arms,
    munitions, ships, and for the Army and Navy.

    The New York World, in an editorial, says: Quote This war-time
    prohibition act is breeding social, industrial, and economic
    discontent every day. What makes it still more infamous is that under
    its provisions the rich man, because he has money, can accumulate for
    his personal consumption whatever stocks of wines and liquors he
    pleases, but the workingman, because he cannot afford to lay in a
    supply of anything, is deprived even of a glass of beer with his
    evening meal. There has never been another such measure of outrageous
    class and social discrimination on the statute books of the United
    States. It should never have been enacted by Congress. It should never
    have been signed by the President. If it is not repealed it is bound
    to cause more trouble than any other piece of Federal legislation
    since the Fugitive Slave Act End Quote.

    By taking vigorous action in this matter, you would do more for the
    cause of real temperance and hearten those people who feel the sting
    of the wave of intolerance which is now spreading over the country
    than anything you could think of. I wish I could meet you face to face
    and try to impress upon you the utter necessity for this action. You
    will have to take action soon.

    TUMULTY.

On May 12, 1919, I received the following cable from the President:

  Paris.

  TUMULTY, White House,
    Washington.

    Please ask the Attorney General to advise me what action I can take
    with regard to removing the ban from the manufacture of drink and as
    to the form the action should take.

    WOODROW WILSON.

On May 12, 1919, I replied to this cable as follows:

  White House, Washington,
    May 12, 1919.

  THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
    Paris, France.

    Have consulted Attorney General with regard to removing ban upon
    manufacture of alcoholic liquor. Am in receipt of a letter from him in
    which he says: Quote The only action you can take until
    demobilization may be determined and proclaimed, will be to issue a
    public statement or send a message to Congress declaring that since
    the purpose of the Act has been entirely satisfied, nothing prevents
    your lifting the ban on the manufacture and sale of beer, wine, or
    other intoxicating malt or vinous liquors except the limitations
    imposed by the Act which maintains it in force until demobilization is
    terminated after the conclusion of the war. End Quote

    TUMULTY.

On May 20, 1919, in a message to Congress, the President made the following recommendation
with reference to war-time prohibition:

    The demobilization of the military forces of the country has
    progressed to such a point that it seems to me entirely safe now to
    remove the ban upon the manufacture and sale of wines and beers, but I
    am advised that without further legislation I have not the legal
    authority to remove the present restrictions. I therefore recommend
    that the Act approved November 21, 1918, entitled "an Act to enable
    the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out, during the fiscal year
    ending June 30, 1919, the purposes of the Act, entitled 'An Act to
    provide further for the national security and defense by stimulating
    agriculture and facilitating the distribution of agricultural
    products, and for other purposes,' be amended and repealed in so far
    as it applies to wines and beers."

Congress refused to act upon the President's recommendation.

Under date of June 27, 1919, I sent the following cable to the President:

    There are only four days left until nation-wide prohibition becomes
    effective and the country will go on a whiskey basis unless you act to
    suspend it. Everything that has happened in the last few weeks
    confirms the views I expressed to you in May excepting that added
    force has been given to every argument made, especially by the action
    of the American Federation of Labour whose membership almost
    unanimously voted at its convention for lifting the ban. The action of
    Canada in lifting the ban is regarded by the country as significant.
    Workingmen and common people all over the country cannot understand
    why light wines and beer cannot be permitted until the Constitutional
    amendment becomes effective. Only this week the Pennsylvania
    Legislature voted to legalize two and three-quarters per cent, beer
    and light wines. Similar action will follow in other states. The
    consensus of opinion in the press is that if prohibition is to be
    effective, it might better be by action of three quarters of the
    states rather than by Presidential proclamation for which you alone
    and our party would bear the responsibility. The prohibitionists in
    Congress are fearful that the enforcement of wartime prohibition will
    cause a harmful reaction on real prohibition, and I believe that they
    are secretly in favour of your lifting the ban for this reason.
    Demobilization figures officially announced by the War Department show
    that the number of troops now remaining in service is practically only
    the number of troops in the Regular Army. Samuel Gompers, Mary Roberts
    Rinehart, Mrs. Douglass Robinson, sister of the late Theodore
    Roosevelt, Miss Gertrude Atherton, Frank S. Goodnow, president of
    Johns Hopkins University, and Cardinal Gibbons out in strong statement
    favouring retention of beer and light wines. If you do not intend to
    lift the ban on July first, you can announce your intention to suspend
    it as soon as the War Department notifies you demobilization is
    accomplished which, the best opinion says, will be August first. The
    feeling all over the country is one of harmful uncertainty and I
    strongly recommend that a definite announcement, of some nature which
    will clear the atmosphere, be made.

    TUMULTY.

On June 28, 1919, I again cabled the President, as follows:

    The White House, Washington,
      28 June, 1919.

    THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
      Paris.

    Received your message saying that you do not intend to lift the ban.
    The Republicans have been industriously spreading the story throughout
    the country that you in fact have power under the Act of November 21,
    1918, to lift the ban. I think it important, wise, and politic,
    therefore, for you to make a statement which we can issue from the
    White House along the following lines: Quote I am convinced that I
    have no legal power at this time in the matter of the ban of liquor.
    Under the Act of November 21, 1918, my power to take action is
    restricted. The Act provides that after June 30, 1919, until the
    conclusion of the present war and thereafter until the termination of
    demobilization, the date of which shall be determined and proclaimed
    by the President, it shall be unlawful, etc. This law does not specify
    that the ban shall be lifted with the signing of peace but with the
    termination of the demobilization of the troops, and I cannot say that
    that has been accomplished. My information from the War Department is
    that there are still a million men in the service under the emergency
    call. It is clear, therefore, that the failure of Congress to act upon
    the suggestion contained in my message of the 20th of May, 1919,
    asking for a repeal of the Act of November 21, 1918, so far as it
    applies to wines and beers, makes it impossible to act in this matter
    at this time. Of course when demobilization is terminated, my power to
    act without congressional action will be exercised End quote.

    TUMULTY.

The President replied to my cables as follows:

    Paris, June 28, 1919.

    TUMULTY,
      White House, Washington.

    WOODROW WILSON.

When the Volstead Act reached the President, he found, upon examining it, that it in no way
repealed war-time prohibition, and so he vetoed it.

In vetoing it, he admonished Congress, that "in all matters having to do with the personal
habits and customs of large numbers of people, we must be certain that the established processes
of legal change are followed. In no other way can the salutary object sought to be accomplished
by great reforms of this character be made satisfactory and permanent."

The House of Representatives with its overwhelming "dry" majority passed the Volstead Act over
the President's veto. The President clearly foresaw the inevitable reaction that would follow
its passage and its enforcement throughout the country.

As the days of the San Francisco Convention approached, he felt that it was the duty of the
Democratic party frankly to speak out regarding the matter and boldly avow its attitude toward
the unreasonable features of the Volstead enforcement act. In his conferences with the Democratic
leaders he took advantage of every opportunity to put before them the necessity for frank and
courageous action. So deep were his convictions about this vital matter, that it was his intention,
shortly after the passage of the Volstead Act over his veto, to send a special message to Congress
regarding the matter, asking for the repeal of the Volstead Act and the passage of legislation
permitting the manufacture and sale of light wines, or at least a modification of the Volstead
Act, changing the alcoholic content of beer.

Upon further consideration of the matter it was agreed that it would be unwise to ask for any
change at the hands of a congress that had so overwhelmingly expressed its opinion in opposition
to any such modification. We, therefore, thought it wise to conserve our energies and to await
the psychological moment at the Convention for putting forward the President's programme.

A few days before the Convention the President delivered to a trusted friend a copy of a proposed
"wet" plank, and asked his friend to submit it to the Committee on Resolutions at the Convention
in San Francisco. The tentative draft of the plank was as follows:

    We recognize that the American saloon is opposed to all social, moral,
    and economic order, and we pledge ourselves to its absolute
    elimination by the passage of such laws as will finally and
    effectually exterminate it. But we favour the repeal of the Volstead
    Act and the substitution for it of a law permitting the manufacture
    and sale of light wines and beer.

Evidently, the trusted friend who had this matter in charge felt that the "dry" atmosphere
of the Convention was unfavourable and so the President's plank, prepared by himself, was not
even given a hearing before the Committee on Resolutions.

CHAPTER XLI

THE TREATY FIGHT

Upon his return home from Paris, the President immediately invited, in most cordial fashion,
the members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to confer with him at the White House.
Some of those who received the invitation immediately announced that as a condition precedent
to their acceptance they would insist that the conference should not be secret in character
and that what would happen there should be disclosed to the public. The President quickly accepted
the conditions proposed by the Republican senators and made a statement from the White House
that the conditions which the conferees named were highly acceptable to him and that he was
willing and anxious to give to the public a stenographic report of everything that transpired.

In view of subsequent history, the conversation between the President and Senator Harding about
the distinction between "legal" and "moral" obligations, which was interesting at the time,
takes on an added interest. Said Senator Harding: "If there is nothing more than a moral obligation
on the part of any member of the league, what avail articles X and XI?"

The President: Why, Senator, it is surprising that that question should be asked. If we undertake
an obligation, we are bound in the most solemn way to carry it out.

Senator Harding: If you believe there is nothing more to this than a moral obligation, any
nation will assume a moral obligation on its own account. Is it a moral obligation? The point
I am trying to get at is: Suppose something arises affecting the peace of the world, and the
council takes steps as provided here to conserve or preserve, and announces its decision, and
every nation in the League takes advantage of the construction that you place upon these articles
and says: "Well, this is only a moral obligation, and we assume that the nation involved does
not deserve our participation or protection," and the whole thing amounts to nothing but an
expression of the league council.

The President: There is a national good conscience in such a matter. I should think that was
one of the most serious things that could possibly happen. When I speak of a legal obligation,
I mean one that specifically binds you to do a particular thing under certain sanctions. That
is a legal obligation, and, if I may say so, has a greater binding force; only there always
remains in the moral obligation the right to exercise one's judgment as to whether it is indeed
incumbent upon one in those circumstances to do that thing. In every moral obligation there
is an element of judgment. In a legal obligation there is no element of judgment.

Never before did the President show himself more tactful or more brilliant in repartee. Surrounded
by twenty or thirty men, headed by Senator Lodge, who hated him with a bitterness that was
intense, the President, with quiet courtesy, parried every blow aimed at him.

No question, no matter how pointed it was, seemed to disturb his serenity. He acted like a
lawyer who knew his case from top to bottom, and who had confidence in the great cause he was
representing. His cards were frankly laid upon the table and he appeared like a fighting champion,
ready to meet all comers. Indeed, this very attitude of frankness, openness, sincerity, and
courtesy, one could see from the side-lines, was a cause of discomfort to Senator Lodge and
the Republicans grouped about him, and one could also see written upon the faces of the Democratic
senators in that little room a look of pride that they had a leader who carried himself so
gallantly and who so brilliantly met every onslaught of the enemy. The President anticipated
an abrupt adjournment of the conference with a courteous invitation to luncheon. Senator Lodge
had just turned to the President and said: "Mr. President, I do not wish to interfere in any
way, but the conference has now lasted about three hours and a half, and it is half an hour
after the lunch hour." Whereupon, the President said: "Will not you gentlemen take luncheon
with me? It will be very delightful."

It was evident that this invitation, so cordially conveyed, broke the ice of formality which
up to that time pervaded the meeting, and like boys out of school, forgetting the great affair
in which they had all played prominent parts, they made their way to the dining room, the President
walking by the side of Senator Lodge. Instead of fisticuffs, as some of the newspaper men had
predicted, the lion and the lamb sat down together at the dining table, and for an hour or
two the question of the ratification of the Treaty of Versailles was forgotten in the telling
of pleasant stories and the play of repartee.

Although, at this conference of August 19, 1919, the President had frankly opened his mind
and heart to the enemies of the Treaty, the opposition instead of moderating seemed to grow
more intense and passionate. The President had done everything humanly possible to soften the
opposition of the Republicans, but, alas, the information brought to him from the Hill by his
Democratic friends only confirmed the opinion that the opposition to the Treaty was growing
and could not be overcome by personal contact of any kind between the President and members
of the Foreign Relations Committee.

It is plain now, and will become plainer as the years elapse, that the Republican opposition
to the League was primarily partisan politics and a rooted personal dislike of the chief proponent
of the League, Mr. Wilson. His reelection in 1916, the first reelection of an incumbent Democratic
President since Andrew Jackson, had greatly disturbed the Republican leaders. The prestige
of the Republican party was threatened by this Democratic leader. His reception in Europe added
to their distress. For the sake of the sacred cause of Republicanism, this menace of Democratic
leadership must be destroyed, even though in destroying it the leaders should swallow their
own words and reverse their own former positions on world adjustment.

An attempt was made by enemies of the President to give the impression to the country that
an association of nations was one of the "fool ideas" of Woodrow Wilson; that in making it
part of his Fourteen Points, he was giving free rein to his idealism. As a matter of fact,
the idea did not originate with Woodrow Wilson. If its American origin were traced, it would
be found that the earliest supporters of the idea were Republicans.

I remember with what reluctance the President accepted the invitation of the League to Enforce
Peace, tendered by Mr. Taft, to deliver an address on May 27, 1916, at the New Willard Hotel,
Washington, a meeting at which one of the principal speakers was no less a personage than Senator
Henry Cabot Lodge, with Mr. Taft presiding. For many months the President had been revolving
this idea in his mind and for a long time he was reluctant to accept any invitation that would
seem to give approval to the idea. He patiently waited to make a complete survey of the whole
world situation, to be convinced that the permanent participation of the United States in world
affairs was a necessity if peace was to be secured.

It was not an easy thing to draw the President away from the traditional policy of aloofness
and isolation which had characterized the attitude of the United States in all international
affairs. But the invitation to discuss universal peace, urged upon the President by ex-President
William H. Taft, was finally accepted. We believe these fundamental things: First, that every
people has a right to choose the sovereignty under which they shall live.

These statements were uttered in the presence of Senator Lodge and applauded by Mr. Taft and
his Republican associates gathered at the banquet.

The President, continuing his address, then gave expression to his views regarding the means
to attain these ends.

Woodrow Wilson believed that the League of Nations was the first modern attempt to prevent
war by discussion in the open and not behind closed doors or "within the cloistered retreats
of European diplomacy." To him the League of Nations was the essence of Christianity. Yet when
he took up the advocacy of the League of Nations, Senator Lodge, the spokesman of the Republican
party at the dinner of the League to Enforce Peace, became the leader in bitter opposition to it.

Senator Lodge at this very dinner on May 27, 1916, delivered the following address:

    I know, and no one, I think, can know better than one who has served
    long in the Senate, which is charged with an important share of the
    ratification and confirmation of all treaties; no one can, I think,
    feel more deeply than I do the difficulties which confront us in the
    work which this league--that is, the great association extending
    throughout the country, known as the League to Enforce Peace--
    undertakes, but the difficulties cannot be overcome unless we try to
    overcome them. I believe much can be done. Probably it will be
    impossible to stop all wars, but it certainly will be possible to stop
    some wars, and thus diminish their number. The way in which this
    problem must be worked out must be left to this league and to those
    who are giving this great subject the study which it deserves. I know
    the obstacles. I know how quickly we shall be met with the statement
    that this is a dangerous question which you are putting into your
    argument, that no nation can submit to the judgment of other nations,
    and we must be careful at the beginning not to attempt too much. I
    know the difficulties which arise when we speak of anything which
    seems to involve an alliance, but I do not believe that when
    Washington warned us against entangling alliances he meant for one
    moment that we should not join with the other civilized nations of the
    world if a method could be found to diminish war and encourage peace.

    It was a year ago in delivering the chancellor's address at Union
    College I made an argument on this theory, that if we were to promote
    international peace at the close of the present terrible war, if we
    were to restore international law as it must be restored, we must find
    some way in which the united forces of the nations could be put behind
    the cause of peace and law. I said then that my hearers might think
    that I was picturing a Utopia, but it is in the search of Utopias that
    great discoveries are made. Not failure, but low aim, is the crime.
    This league certainly has the highest of all aims for the benefits of
    humanity, and because the pathway is sown with difficulties is no
    reason that we should turn from it.

Theodore Roosevelt, in his Nobel Prize thesis, also expressed himself as follows, with reference
to an association of nations:

    The one permanent move for obtaining peace which has yet been
    suggested with any reasonable chance of obtaining its object is by an
    agreement among the great powers, in which each should pledge itself
    not only to abide by the decisions of a common tribunal, but to back
    with force the decision of that common tribunal. The great civilized
    nations of the world which do not possess force, actual or immediately
    potential, should combine by solemn agreement in a great world league
    for the peace of righteousness.

Upon the President taking up the League of Nations fight, Senator Lodge drew away from it as
if in fear and trembling and began discussing our responsibilities abroad, evidencing a complete
change of heart. He no longer asked Americans to be generous and fearless, but said:

    The hearts of the vast majority of mankind would beat on strongly
    without any quickening if the League were to perish altogether.

The first objection to the League of Nations, urged by Senator Lodge, was that it involved
the surrender of our sovereignty. There is a striking analogy between the argument of Senator
Lodge and those put forth by gentlemen in Washington's day who feared that the proposed Constitution
which was designed to establish a federal union would mean danger, oppression, and disaster.
Mr. Singletary of Massachusetts, Mr. Lowndes of South Carolina, Mr. Grayson of Virginia, even
Patrick Henry himself, foresaw the virtual subjugation of the States through a Constitution
which at that time was often called the Treaty between the Thirteen States.

As Senator Brandegee and others contended that the Covenant of the League of Nations was a
"muddy, murky, and muddled document," so Mr. Williams of New York, in 1788, charged "ambiguity"
against the proposed Constitution, saying that it was "absolutely impossible to know what we
give up and what we retain."

Mandates and similar bogies had their counterpart in Washington's day. George Mason, fearful
like Senator Sherman of Illinois in a later day, "apprehended the possibility of Congress calling
in the militia of Georgia to quell disturbances in New Hampshire."

The attitude of George Washington in his day was very similar to that of Woodrow Wilson. Writing
to Knox, on August 19, 1797, he said: "I am fully persuaded it [meaning the Federal Constitution]
is the best that can be obtained at this time. And, as a constitutional door is open for amendment
hereafter, our adoption of it, under the present circumstances of the union, is in my opinion
desirable." And of the opponents of the proposed Constitution he said, "The major part of them
will, it is to be feared, be governed by sinister and self-important motives."

The storm centre of the whole fight against the League was the opposition personally conducted
by Senator Lodge and others of the Republican party against the now famous Article X. The basis
of the whole Republican opposition was their fear that America would have to bear some responsibility
in the affairs of the world, while the strength of Woodrow Wilson's position was his faith
that out of the war, with all its blood and tears, would come this great consummation.

It was the President's idea that we should go into the League and bear our responsibilities;
that we should enter it as gentlemen, scorning privilege. He did not wish us to sneak in and
enjoy its advantages and shirk its responsibilities, but he wanted America to enter boldly
and not as a hypocrite.

With reference to the argument made by Senator Lodge against our going into the League, saying
that it would be a surrender of American sovereignty and a loss of her freedom, the President
often asked the question on his Western trip: How can a nation preserve its freedom except
through concerted action? We surrender part of our freedom in order to save the rest of it.
Discussing this matter one day, he said: "One cannot have an omelet without breaking eggs.
By joining the League of Nations, a nation loses, not its individual freedom, but its selfish
isolation. The only freedom it loses is the freedom to do wrong. Robinson Crusoe was free to
shoot in any direction on his island until Friday came. Then there was one direction in which
he could not shoot. His freedom ended where Friday's rights began."

There would have been no Federal Union to-day if the individual states that went to make up
the Federal Union were not willing to surrender the powers they exercised, to surrender their
freedom as it were.

Opponents of the League tried to convey the impression that under Article X we should be obliged
to send our boys across the sea and that in that event America's voice would not be the determining
voice.

Lloyd George answered this argument in a crushing way, when he said:

    We cannot, unless we abandon the whole basis of the League of Nations,
    disinterest ourselves in an attack upon the existence of a nation
    which is a member of that league and whose life is in jeopardy. That
    covenant, as I understand it, does not contemplate, necessarily,
    military action in support of the imperilled nation. It contemplates
    economic pressure; it contemplates support for the struggling people;
    and when it is said that if you give any support at all to Poland it
    involves a great war, with conscription and with all the mechanism of
    war with which we have been so familiar in the last few years, that is
    inconsistent with the whole theory of the covenant into which we have
    entered. We contemplated other methods of bringing pressure to bear
    upon the recalcitrant nation that is guilty of acts of aggression
    against other nations and endangering their independence.

The Republicans who attacked the President on Article X had evidently forgotten what Theodore
Roosevelt said about the one effective move for obtaining peace, when he urged: "The nations
should agree on certain rights that should not be questioned, such as territorial integrity,
their rights to deal with their domestic affairs, and with such matters as whom they should
admit to citizenship." They had, also, evidently forgotten that Mr. Taft said: "The arguments
against Article X which have been most pressed are those directed to showing that under its
obligations the United States can be forced into many wars and to burdensome expeditionary
forces to protect countries in which it has no legitimate interest. This objection will not
bear examination."

Mr. Taft answered the question of one of the Republican critics if Article X would not involve
us in war, in the following statement:

How much will it involve us in war? Little, if any. In the first place, the universal boycott,
first to be applied, will impose upon most nations such a withering isolation and starvation
that in most cases it will be effective. In the second place, we'll not be drawn into any war
in which it will not be reasonable and convenient for us to render efficient aid, because the
plan of the Council must be approved by our representatives, as already explained. In the third
place, the threat of the universal boycott and the union of overwhelming forces of the members
of the League, if need be, will hold every nation from violating Article X, and Articles XII,
XIII, and XV, unless there is a world conspiracy, as in this war, in which case the earliest
we get into the war, the better.

Evidently Mr. Taft did not look upon Article X as the bugaboo that Mr. Lodge pretended it was,
for he said:

Article X covers the Monroe Doctrine and extends it to the world. The League is not a super-sovereign,
but a partnership intended to secure to us and all nations only the sovereignty we can properly
have, i.e., sovereignty regulated by the international law and morality consistent with the
same sovereignty of other nations. The United States is not under this constitution to be forced
into actual war against its will. This League is to be regarded in conflict with the advice
of Washington only from a narrow and reactionary viewpoint.

Mr. Herbert Hoover, now a member of Mr. Harding's Cabinet, in a speech delivered on October
3, 1919, answering the argument that America would be compelled to send her boys to the other
side, said:

    We hear the cry that the League obligates that our sons be sent to
    fight in foreign lands. Yet the very intent and structure of the
    League is to prevent wars. There is no obligation for the United
    States to engage in military operations or to allow any interference
    with our internal affairs without the full consent of our
    representatives in the League.

And further discussing the revision of the Treaty, Mr. Hoover said:

    I am confident that if we attempt now to revise the Treaty we shall
    tread on a road through European chaos. Even if we managed to keep our
    soldiers out of it we will not escape fearful economic losses. If the
    League is to break down we must at once prepare to fight. Few people
    seem to realize the desperation to which Europe has been reduced.

CHAPTER XLII

THE WESTERN TRIP

Tentative plans for a Western trip began to be formed in the White House because of the urgent
insistence from Democratic friends on the Hill that nothing could win the fight for the League
of Nations except a direct appeal to the country by the President in person.

Admiral Grayson, the President's physician and consistent friend, who knew his condition and
the various physical crises through which he had passed here and on the other side, from some
of which he had not yet recovered, stood firm in his resolve that the President should not
go West, even intimating to me that the President's life might pay the forfeit if his advice
were disregarded. Indeed, it needed not the trained eye of a physician to see that the man
whom the senators were now advising to make a "swing around the circle" was on the verge of
a nervous breakdown. More than once since his return from the Peace Conference I had urged
him to take a needed rest; to get away from the turmoil of Washington and recuperate; but he
spurned this advice and resolved to go through to the end.

No argument of ours could draw him away from his duties, which now involved not only the fight
for the ratification of the Treaty, but the threatened railway strike, with its attendant evils
to the country, and added administrative burdens growing out of the partisanship fight which
was being waged in Congress for the ostensible purpose of reducing the high cost of living.

One day, after Democratic senators had been urging the Western trip, I took leave to say to
the President that, in his condition, disastrous consequences might result if he should follow
their advice. But he dismissed my solicitude, saying in a weary way: "I know that I am at the
end of my tether, but my friends on the Hill say that the trip is necessary to save the Treaty,
and I am willing to make whatever personal sacrifice is required, for if the Treaty should
be defeated, God only knows what would happen to the world as a result of it. In the presence
of the great tragedy which now faces the world, no decent man can count his own personal fortunes
in the reckoning. Even though, in my condition, it might mean the giving up of my life, I will
gladly make the sacrifice to save the Treaty."

He spoke like a soldier who was ready to make the supreme sacrifice to save the cause that
lay closest to his heart.

As I looked at the President while he was talking, in my imagination I made a comparison between
the man, Woodrow Wilson, who now stood before me and the man I had met many years before in
New Jersey. In those days he was a vigorous, agile, slender man, active and alert, his hair
but slightly streaked with gray. Now, as he stood before me discussing the necessity for the
Western trip, he was an old man, grown grayer and grayer, but grimmer and grimmer in his determination,
like an old warrior, to fight to the end.

There was another whose heroism was no less than his, Mrs. Wilson. She has since referred to
the Western trip as "one long nightmare," though in the smiling face which she turned upon
the crowds from Columbus to San Diego and back to Pueblo none could have detected a trace of
the anxiety that was haunting her. She met the shouting throngs with the same reposeful dignity
and radiant, friendly smile with which she had captivated the people of England, France, Italy,
and Belgium.

At home and abroad she has always had a peculiar power to attract the populace, though she
herself has never craved the spotlight. Like her husband, she finds home more congenial, and,
like him, she prefers not to be written about.

In her husband's career she has played a notable role, the more noble because self-effacing.
She has consistently disavowed intention to participate actively in public affairs, and yet
in many a crisis she, out of her strong intelligence and sagacity, has been able to offer timely,
wise suggestion. No public man ever had a more devoted helpmeet, and no wife a husband more
dependent upon her sympathetic understanding of his problems. The devotion between these two
has not been strengthened, for that would be impossible, but deepened by the President's long
illness. Mrs. Wilson's strong physical constitution, combined with strength of character and
purpose, has sustained her under a strain which must have wrecked most women. When the strong
man broke, she nursed him as tenderly as a mother nurses a child.

Mrs. Wilson must have left the White House for that ill-omened journey with a sinking heart,
for she knew, none better, that her husband was suffering from accumulated fatigue, and that
he should be starting on a long vacation instead of a fighting tour that would tax the strength
of an athlete in the pink of condition. For seven practically vacationless years he had borne
burdens too great for any constitution; he had conducted his country through the greatest of
all wars; he had contended, at times single-handed, in Paris with the world's most adroit politicians;
he had there been prostrated with influenza, that treacherous disease which usually maims for
a time those whom it does not kill, and he had not given himself a chance to recuperate; he
had returned to America to engage in the most desperate conflict of his career with the leaders
of the opposition party; and now, when it was clear even to his men friends, and much clearer
to the intuition of a devoted wife, that nature was crying out for rest, he was setting out
on one of the most arduous programmes of public speaking known even in our country, which is
familiar with these strenuous undertakings. Mrs. Wilson's anxieties must have increased with
each successive day of the journey, but not even to we of the immediate party did she betray
her fears. Her resolution was as great as his.

When the great illness came she had to stand between him and the peril of exhaustion from official
cares, yet she could not, like the more fortunately obscure, withdraw her husband from business
altogether and take him away to some quiet place for restoration. As head of the nation he
must be kept in touch with affairs, and during the early months of his illness she was the
chief agent in keeping him informed of public business. Her high intelligence and her extraordinary
memory enabled her to report to him daily, in lucid detail, weighty matters of state brought
to her by officials for transmission to him. At the proper time, when he was least in pain
and least exhausted, she would present a clear, oral resume of each case and lay the documents
before him in orderly arrangement.

As woman and wife, the first thought of her mind and the first care of her heart must be for
his health. Once at an acute period of his illness certain officials insisted that they must
see him because they carried information which it was "absolutely necessary that the President
of the United States should have," and she quietly replied: "I am not interested in the President
of the United States. I am interested in my husband and his health."

With loving courage she met her difficult dilemma of shielding him as much as possible and
at the same time keeping him acquainted with things he must know. When it became possible for
him to see people she, in counsel with Admiral Grayson, would arrange for conferences and carefully
watch her husband to see that they who talked with him did not trespass too long upon his limited
energy.

When it became evident that the tide of public opinion was setting against the League, the
President finally decided upon the Western trip as the only means of bringing home to the people
the unparalleled world situation.

At the Executive offices we at once set in motion preparations for the Western trip. One itinerary
after another was prepared, but upon examining it the President would find that it was not
extensive enough and would suspect that it was made by those of us--like Grayson and myself--who
were solicitious for his health, and he would cast them aside. All the itineraries provided
for a week of rest in the Grand Canyon of the Colorado, but when a brief vacation was intimated
to him, he was obdurate in his refusal to include even a day of relaxation, saying to me, that
"the people would never forgive me if I took a rest on a trip such as the one I contemplate
taking. This is a business trip, pure and simple, and the itinerary must not include rest of
any kind." He insisted that there be no suggestion of a pleasure trip attaching to a journey
which he regarded as a mission.

As I now look back upon this journey and its disastrous effects upon the President's health,
I believe that if he had only consented to include a rest period in our arrangements, he might
not have broken down at Pueblo.

Never have I seen the President look so weary as on the night we left Washington for our swing
into the West. When we were about to board our special train, the President turned to me and
said: "I am in a nice fix. I am scheduled between now and the 28th of September to make in
the neighbourhood of a hundred speeches to various bodies, stretching all the way from Ohio
to the coast, and yet the pressure of other affairs upon me at the White House has been so
great that I have not had a single minute to prepare my speeches. I do not know how I shall
get the time, for during the past few weeks I have been suffering from daily headaches; but
perhaps to-night's rest will make me fit for the work of tomorrow."

No weariness or brain-fag, however, was apparent in the speech at Columbus, Ohio. To those
of us who sat on the platform, including the newspaper group who accompanied the President,
this speech with its beautiful phrasing and its effective delivery seemed to have been carefully
prepared.

Day after day, for nearly a month, there were speeches of a similar kind, growing more intense
in their emotion with each day. Shortly after we left Tacoma, Washington, the fatigue of the
trip began to write itself in the President's face. He suffered from violent headaches each
day, but his speeches never betrayed his illness.

In those troublous days and until the very end of our Western trip the President would not
permit the slightest variation from our daily programme. Nor did he ever permit the constant
headaches, which would have put an ordinary man out of sorts, to work unkindly upon the members
of his immediate party, which included Mrs. Wilson, Doctor Grayson, and myself. He would appear
regularly at each meal, partaking of it only slightly, always gracious, always good-natured
and smiling, responding to every call from the outside for speeches--calls that came from early
morning until late at night--from the plain people grouped about every station and watering
place through which we passed. Even under the most adverse physical conditions he was always
kind, gentle, and considerate to those about him.

I have often wished, as the criticisms of the Pullman smoking car, the cloak room, and the
counting house were carried to me, picturing the President's coldness, his aloofness and exclusiveness,
that the critics could for a moment have seen the heart and great good-nature of the man giving
expression to themselves on this critical journey. If they could have peeped through the curtain
of our dining room, at one of the evening meals, for instance, they would have been ashamed
of their misrepresentations of this kind, patient, considerate, human-hearted man.

When he was "half fit," an expression he often used, he was the best fellow in the little group
on our train--good-natured, smiling, full of anecdotes and repartee, and always thinking of
the comforts and pleasure of the men gathered about him. The illness of a newspaper man, or
of one of the messengers or conductors, or attaches of the train was a call to service to him,
and one could find the President in one of the little compartments of the train, seated at
the bed of a newspaper man or some attache who had been taken ill on the trip. There is in
the President a sincere human sympathy, which is better than the cheap good-fellowship which
many public men carefully cultivate.

It was on the Western trip, about September 12th, while the President, with every ounce of
his energy, was attempting to put across the League of Nations, that Mr. William C. Bullitt
was disclosing to the Committee on Foreign Relations at a public hearing the facts of a conference
between Secretary Lansing and himself, in which Mr. Bullitt declared that Mr. Lansing had severely
criticized the League of Nations.

The press representatives aboard the train called Mr. Bullitt's testimony to the President's
attention. He made no comment, but it was plain from his attitude that he was incensed and
distressed beyond measure. Here he was in the heart of the West, advancing the cause so dear
to his heart, steadily making gains against what appeared to be insurmountable odds, and now
his intimate associate, Mr. Lansing, was engaged in sniping and attacking him from behind.

When the President received this explanation from Mr. Lansing, he sent for me to visit with
him in his compartment. At the time I arrived he was seated in his little study, engaged in
preparing his speech for the night's meeting. Turning to me, with a deep show of feeling, he
said: "Read that, and tell me what you think of a man who was my associate on the other side
and who confidentially expressed himself to an outsider in such a fashion? Were I in Washington
I would at once demand his resignation! That kind of disloyalty must not be permitted to go
unchallenged for a single minute. The testimony of Bullitt is a confirmation of the suspicions
I have had with reference to this individual. I found the same attitude of mind on the part
of Lansing on the other side. I could find his trail everywhere I went, but they were only
suspicions and it would not be fair for me to act upon them. But here in his own statement
is a verification at last of everything I have suspected. Think of it! This from a man whom
I raised from the level of a subordinate to the great office of Secretary of State of the United
States. My God! I did not think it was possible for Lansing to act in this way. When we were
in Paris I found that Lansing and others were constantly giving out statements that did not
agree with my viewpoint. When I had arranged a settlement, there would appear from some source
I could not locate unofficial statements telling the correspondents not to take things too
seriously; that a compromise would be made, and this news, or rather news of this kind, was
harmful to the settlement I had already obtained and quite naturally gave the Conference the
impression that Lansing and his kind were speaking for me, and then the French would say that
I was bluffing."

I am convinced that only the President's illness a few days later prevented an immediate demand
on his part for the resignation of Mr. Lansing.

That there was no real devotion on the part of Mr. Lansing for the President is shown by the
following incident.

A few days after the President returned from the West and lay seriously ill at the White House,
with physicians and nurses gathered about his bed, Mr. Lansing sought a private audience with
me in the Cabinet Room.

Upon reading this, I coldly turned to Mr. Lansing and said: "Mr. Lansing, the Constitution
is not a dead letter with the White House. I have read the Constitution and do not find myself
in need of any tutoring at your hands of the provision you have just read." When I asked Mr.
Lansing the question as to who should certify to the disability of the President, he intimated
that that would be a job for either Doctor Grayson or myself. I immediately grasped the full
significance of what he intimated and said: "You may rest assured that while Woodrow Wilson
is lying in the White House on the broad of his back I will not be a party to ousting him.
He has been too kind, too loyal, and too wonderful to me to receive such treatment at my hands."
Just as I uttered this statement Doctor Grayson appeared in the Cabinet Room and I turned to
him and said: "And I am sure that Doctor Grayson will never certify to his disability. Will
you, Grayson?" Doctor Grayson left no doubt in Mr. Lansing's mind that he would not do as Mr.
Lansing suggested. I then notified Mr. Lansing that if anybody outside of the White House circle
attempted to certify to the President's disability, that Grayson and I would stand together
and repudiate it. I added that if the President were in a condition to know of this episode
he would, in my opinion, take decisive measures. That ended the interview.

It is unnecessary to say that no further attempt was made by Mr. Lansing to institute ouster
proceedings against his chief.

I never attempted to ascertain what finally influenced the action of the President peremptorily
to demand the resignation of Mr. Lansing. My own judgment is that the demand came as the culmination
of repeated acts of what the President considered disloyalty on Mr. Lansing's part while in
Paris, and that the situation was aggravated by Mr. Lansing's notes to Mexico during the President's
illness.

When I received from the President's stenographer the letter to Mr. Lansing, intimating that
his resignation would not be a disagreeable thing to the President, I conferred with the President
at once and argued with him that in the present state of public opinion it was the wrong time
to do the right thing. At the time the President was seated in his invalid chair on the White
House portico.

Although physically weak, he was mentally active and alert. Quickly he took hold of my phrase
and said, with a show of the old fire that I had seen on so many occasions: "Tumulty, it is
never the wrong time to spike disloyalty. When Lansing sought to oust me, I was upon my back.
I am on my feet now and I will not have disloyalty about me."

When the announcement of Lansing's resignation was made, the flood-gates of fury broke about
the President; but he was serene throughout it all. When I called at the White House on the
following Sunday, I found him calmly seated in his bathroom with his coloured valet engaged
in the not arduous task of cutting his hair. Looking at me with a smile in his eye, he said:
"Well, Tumulty, have I any friends left?" "Very few, Governor," I said. Whereupon he replied:
"Of course, it will be another two days' wonder. But in a few days what the country considers
an indiscretion on my part in getting rid of Lansing will be forgotten, but when the sober,
second thought of the country begins to assert itself, what will stand out will be the disloyalty
of Lansing to me. Just think of it! Raised and exalted to the office of Secretary of State,
made a member of the Peace Commission, participating in all the conferences and affixing his
signature to a solemn treaty, and then hurrying to America and appearing before the Foreign
Relations Committee of the Senate to repudiate the very thing to which he had given his assent."

During the illness of the President his political enemies sought to convey the impression that
he was incapacitated for the duties of his office. As one who came in daily contact with him
I knew how baseless were these insinuations. As a matter of fact, there was not a whole week
during his entire illness that he was not in touch with every matter upon which he was called
to act and upon which he was asked to render judgment. The White House files contain numerous
memoranda showing his interest in all matters to which department heads felt it incumbent to
call his attention during his illness. One of the most critical things upon which he passed
was the question of the miners' strike, which resulted in the beginning from an injunction
suit by the Attorney General, Mr. Palmer, to restrain the miners from carrying out their purpose
to strike. This was one of the most critical situations that arose during his illness and with
which he daily kept in touch.

Uncomplainingly the President applied himself to the difficult tasks of the Western trip. While
the first meeting at Columbus was a disappointment as to attendance, as we approached the West
the crowds grew in numbers and the enthusiasm became boundless. The idea of the League spread
and spread as we neared the coast. Contrary to the impression in the East, the President's
trip West was a veritable triumph for him and was so successful that we had planned, upon the
completion of the Western trip, to invade the enemy's country, Senator Lodge's own territory,
the New England States, and particularly Massachusetts. This was our plan, fully developed
and arranged, when about four o'clock in the morning of September 26, 1919, Doctor Grayson
knocked at the door of my sleeping compartment and told me to dress quickly, that the President
was seriously ill. As we walked toward the President's car, the Doctor told me in a few words
of the President's trouble and said that he greatly feared it might end fatally if we should
attempt to continue the trip and that it was his duty to inform the President that by all means
the trip must be cancelled; but that he did not feel free to suggest it to the President without
having my cooperation and support. When we arrived at the President's drawing room I found
him fully dressed and seated in his chair. With great difficulty he was able to articulate.
His face was pale and wan. One side of it had fallen, and his condition was indeed pitiful
to behold. Quickly I reached the same conclusion as that of Doctor Grayson, as to the necessity
for the immediate cancellation of the trip, for to continue it, in my opinion, meant death
to the President. Looking at me, with great tears running down his face, he said: "My dear
boy, this has never happened to me before. I felt it coming on yesterday. I do not know what
to do." He then pleaded with us not to cut short the trip. Turning to both of us, he said:
"Don't you see that if you cancel this trip, Senator Lodge and his friends will say that I
am a quitter and that the Western trip was a failure, and the Treaty will be lost." Reaching
over to him, I took both of his hands and said: "What difference, my dear Governor, does it
make what they say? Nobody in the world believes you are a quitter, but it is your life that
we must now consider. We must cancel the trip, and I am sure that when the people learn of
your condition there will be no misunderstanding." He then tried to move over nearer to me
to continue his argument against the cancellation of the trip; but he found he was unable to
do so. His left arm and leg refused to function.

I then realized that the President's whole left side was paralyzed. Looking at me he said:
"I want to show them that I can still fight and that I am not afraid. Just postpone the trip
for twenty-four hours and I will be all right."

But Doctor Grayson and I resolved not to take any risk, and an immediate statement was made
to the inquiring newspaper men that the Western trip was off.

Never was the President more gentle or tender than on that morning. Suffering the greatest
pain, paralyzed on his left side, he was still fighting desperately for the thing that was
so close to his heart--a vindication of the things for which he had so gallantly fought on
the other side. Grim old warrior that he was, he was ready to fight to the death for the League
of Nations.

In the dispatches carried to the country, prepared by the fine newspaper men who accompanied
us on the trip, it was stated that evidences of a breakdown on the part of the President were
plainly visible in the speech he delivered at Pueblo.

I had talked to him only a few minutes before the delivery of that speech, and the only apparent
evidence that he was approaching a breakdown was in his remark to me that he had a splitting
headache, and that he would have to cut his speech short. As a matter of fact, this last speech
he made, at Pueblo, on September 25, 1919, was one of the longest speeches delivered on the
Western trip and, if I may say so, was one of the best and most passionate appeals he made
for the League of Nations.

Many things in connection with the Pueblo meeting impressed themselves upon me. In the peroration
of the speech he drew a picture of his visit on Decoration Day, 1919, to what he called a beautiful
hillside near Paris, where was located the cemetery of Suresnes, a cemetery given over to the
burial of the American dead. As he spoke of the purposes for which those departed American
soldiers had given their lives, a great wave of emotion, such as I have never witnessed at
a public meeting, swept through the whole amphitheatre. As he continued his speech, I looked
at Mrs. Wilson and saw tears in her eyes. I then turned to see the effect upon some of the
"hard-boiled" newspaper men, to whom great speeches were ordinary things, and they were alike
deeply moved. Down in the amphitheatre I saw men sneak their handkerchiefs out of their pockets
and wipe the tears from their eyes. The President was like a great organist playing upon the
heart emotions of the thousands of people who were held spell-bound by what he said.

It is possible, I pray God it may not be so, that the speech at Pueblo was the last public
speech that Woodrow Wilson will ever make, and I, therefore, take the liberty of introducing
into this story the concluding words of it:

    What of our pledges to the men that lie dead in France? We said that
    they went over there not to prove the prowess of America or her
    readiness for another war but to see to it that there never was such a
    war again. It always seems to make it difficult for me to say
    anything, my fellow citizens, when I think of my clients in this case.
    My clients are the children; my clients are the next generation. They
    do not know what promises and bonds I undertook when I ordered the
    armies of the United States to the soil of France, but I know, and I
    intend to redeem my pledges to the children; they shall not be sent
    upon a similar errand.

    Again, and again, my fellow citizens, mothers who lost their sons in
    France have come to me and, taking my hand, have shed tears upon it
    not only, but they have added: "God bless you, Mr. President!" Why, my
    fellow citizens, should they pray God to bless me? I advised the
    Congress of the United States to create the situation that led to the
    death of their sons. I ordered their sons overseas. I consented to
    their sons being put in the most difficult parts of the battle line,
    where death was certain, as in the impenetrable difficulties of the
    forest of Argonne. Why should they weep upon my hand and call down the
    blessings of God upon me? Because they believe that their boys died
    for something that vastly transcends any of the immediate and palpable
    objects of the war. They believe, and they rightly believe, that their
    sons saved the liberty of the world. They believe that wrapped up with
    the liberty of the world is the continuous protection of that liberty
    by the concerted powers of all the civilized world. They believe that
    this sacrifice was made in order that other sons should not be called
    upon for a similar gift--the gift of life, the gift of all that died--
    and if we did not see this thing through, if we fulfilled the dearest
    present wish of Germany and now dissociated ourselves from those
    alongside whom we fought in the war, would not something of the halo
    go away from the gun over the mantelpiece, or the sword? Would not the
    old uniform lose something if its significance? These men were
    crusaders. They were going forth to prove the might of justice and
    right, and all the world accepted them as crusaders, and their
    transcendent achievement has made all the world believe in America as
    it believes in no other nation organized in the modern world. There
    seems to me to stand between us and the rejection or qualification of
    this treaty the serried ranks of those boys in khaki, not only those
    boys who came home, but those dear ghosts that still deploy upon the
    fields of France. Behind me on the slopes was
    rank upon rank of living American soldiers, and lying before me on the
    levels of the plain was rank upon rank of departed American soldiers.
    Right by the side of the stand where I spoke there was a little group
    of French women who had adopted those graves, had made themselves
    mothers of those dear ghosts by putting flowers every day upon those
    graves, taking them as their own sons, their own beloved, because they
    had died in the same cause--France was free and the world was free
    because America had come! I wish some men in public life who are now
    opposing the settlement for which these men died could visit such a
    spot as that. I wish that the thought that comes out of those graves
    could penetrate their consciousness. I wish that they could feel the
    moral obligation that rests upon us not to go back on those boys, but
    to see the thing through, to see it through to the end and make good
    their redemption of the world. For nothing less depends upon this
    decision, nothing less than the liberation and salvation of the world.

    Now that the mists of this great question have cleared away, I believe
    that men will see the trust, eye to eye and face to face. There is one
    thing that the American people always rise to and extend their hand
    to, and that is the truth of justice and of liberty and of peace. We
    have accepted that truth and we are going to be led by it, and it is
    going to lead us, and through us the world, out into pastures of
    quietness and peace such as the world never dreamed of before.

CHAPTER XLIII

RESERVATIONS

On June 25, 1919, I received from President Wilson the following cabled message:

    My clear conviction is that the adoption of the treaty by the Senate
    with reservations will put the United States as clearly out of the
    concert of nations as a rejection. We ought either to go in or stay
    out. To stay out would be fatal to the influence and even to the
    commercial prospects of the United States, and to go in would give her
    a leading place in the affairs of the world. Reservations would either
    mean nothing or postpone the conclusion of peace, so far as America is
    concerned, until every other principal nation concerned in the treaty
    had found out by negotiation what the reservations practically meant
    and whether they could associate themselves with the United States on
    the terms of the reservations or not.

    WOODROW WILSON.

The President consistently held to the principle involved in this statement. To his mind the
reservations offered by Senator Lodge constituted a virtual nullification on the part of the
United States of a treaty which was a contract, and which should be amended through free discussion
among all the contracting parties. He did not argue or assume that the Covenant was a perfected
document, but he believed that, like our American Constitution, it should be adopted and subsequently
submitted to necessary amendment through the constitutional processes of debate. He was unalterably
opposed to having the United States put in the position of seeking exemptions and special privileges
under an agreement which he believed was in the interest of the entire world, including our
own country. Furthermore, he believed that the advocacy for reservations in the Senate proceeded
from partisan motives and that in so far as there was a strong popular opinion in the country
in favour of reservations it proceeded from the same sources from which had come the pro-German
propaganda. Before the war pro-German agitation had sought to keep us out of the conflict,
and after the war it sought to separate us in interest and purpose from other governments with
which we were associated.

By his opposition to reservations the President was seeking to prevent Germany from taking
through diplomacy what she had been unable to get by her armies.

The President was so confident of the essential rightness of the League and the Covenant and
of the inherent right-mindedness of the American people, that he could not believe that the
people would sanction either rejection or emasculation of the Treaty if they could be made
to see the issue in all the sincerity of its motives and purposes, if partisan attack could
be met with plain truth-speaking. It was to present the case of the people in what he considered
its true light that he undertook the Western tour, and it was while thus engaged that his health
broke. Had he kept well and been able to lead in person the struggle for ratification, he might
have won, as he had previously by his determination and conviction broken down stubborn opposition
to the Federal Reserve system.

So strong was his faith in his cause and the people that even after he fell ill he could not
believe that ratification would fail. What his enemies called stubbornness was his firm faith
in the righteousness of the treaty and in the reasonableness of the proposition that the time
to make amendments was not prior to the adoption of the Treaty and by one nation, but after
all the nations had agreed and had met together for sober, unpartisan consideration of alterations
in the interest of all the contracting parties and the peace and welfare of the world.

Even when he lay seriously ill, he insisted upon being taken in his invalid chair along the
White House portico to the window of my outer office each day during the controversy in the
Senate over the Treaty. There day after day in the coldest possible weather I conferred with
him and discussed every phase of the fight on the Hill. He would sit in his chair, wrapped
in blankets, and though hardly able, because of his physical condition, to discuss these matters
with me, he evidenced in every way a tremendous interest in everything that was happening in
the Capitol that had to do with the Treaty. Although I was warned by Doctor Grayson and Mrs.
Wilson not to alarm him unduly by bringing pessimistic reports, I sought, in the most delicate
and tactful way I could, to bring the atmosphere of the Hill to him. Whenever there was an
indication of the slightest rise in the tide for the League of Nations a smile would pass over
the President's face, and weak and broken though he was, he evidenced his great pleasure at
the news. Time and time again during the critical days of the Treaty fight the President would
appear outside my office, seated in the old wheel chair, and make inquiry regarding the progress
of the Treaty fight on Capitol Hill.

One of the peculiar things about the illness from which the President suffered was the deep
emotion which would stir him when word was brought to him that this senator or that senator
on the Hill had said some kind thing about him or had gone to his defense when some political
enemy was engaged in bitterly assailing his attitude in the Treaty fight. Never would there
come from him any censure or bitter criticism of those who were opposing him in the fight.
For Senator Borah, the leader of the opposition, he had high respect, and felt that he was
actuated only by sincere motives.

I recall how deeply depressed he was when word was carried to him that the defeat of the Treaty
was inevitable. On this day he was looking more weary than at any time during his illness.
After I had read to him a memorandum that I had prepared, containing a report on the situation
in the Senate, I drew away from his wheel chair and said to him: "Governor, you are looking
very well to-day." He shook his head in a pathetic way and said: "I am very well for a man
who awaits disaster," and bowing his head he gave way to the deep emotion he felt.

A few days later I called to notify him of the defeat of the Treaty. His only comment was,
"They have shamed us in the eyes of the world." Endeavouring to keep my good-nature steady
in the midst of a trying situation, I smiled and said: "But, Governor, only the Senate has
defeated you. The People will vindicate your course. You may rely upon that." "Ah, but our
enemies have poisoned the wells of public opinion," he said. "They have made the people believe
that the League of Nations is a great Juggernaut, the object of which is to bring war and not
peace to the world. If I only could have remained well long enough to have convinced the people
that the League of Nations was their real hope, their last chance, perhaps, to save civilization!"

I said, by way of trying to strengthen and encourage him at this, one of the critical moments
of his life--a moment that I knew was one of despair for him--"Governor, I want to read a chapter
from the third volume of your 'History of the American People,' if it will not tire you." He
graciously gave his assent and I took from under my arm the volume containing an account of
the famous John Jay treaty, in the defense of which Alexander Hamilton was stoned while he
stood defending it on the steps of the New York City Hall. There was, indeed, a remarkable
similarity between the fight over the John Jay treaty and the Versailles Treaty. I read an
entire chapter of Woodrow Wilson's "History of the American People," including the passage:

    Slowly the storm blew off. The country had obviously gained more than
    it had conceded, and tardily saw the debt it owed Mr. Jay and to the
    administration, whose firmness and prudence had made his mission
    possible. But in the meantime things had been said which could not be
    forgotten. Washington had been assailed with unbridled license, as an
    enemy and a traitor to the country; had even been charged with
    embezzling public moneys during the Revolution; was madly threatened
    with impeachment, and even with assassination; and had cried amidst
    the bitterness of it all that "he would rather be in his grave than in
    the presidency."

    The country knew its real mind about him once again when the end of
    his term came and it was about to lose him. He refused to stand for
    another election. His farewell address, with its unmistakable tone of
    majesty and its solemn force of affection and admonition, seemed an
    epitome of the man's character and achievements, and every man's heart
    smote him to think that Washington was actually gone from the nation's
    counsels.

When I concluded reading this chapter, the President's comment was, "It is mighty generous
of you to compare my disappointment over the Treaty with that of Washington's. You have placed
me in mighty good company."

CHAPTER XLIV

WILSON--THE HUMAN BEING

There is no one who wishes to feel the camaraderie of life, "the familiar touch," more than
Woodrow Wilson; but it seems that it cannot be so, and the knowledge that it could not saddened
him from the outset of his public career.

I remember a meeting between us at the Governor's Cottage at Sea Girt, New Jersey, a few hours
after the news of his nomination for the Presidency had reached us from Baltimore in 1912.
In this little talk he endeavoured in an intimate way to analyze himself for my benefit. "You
know, Tumulty," he said, "there are two natures combined in me that every day fight for supremacy
and control. On the one side, there is the Irish in me, quick, generous, impulsive, passionate,
anxious always to help and to sympathize with those in distress." As he continued his description
of himself, his voice took on an Irish brogue, "And like the Irishman at the Donnybrook Fair,
always willin' to raise me shillalah and to hit any head which stands firninst me. Then, on
the other side," he said, "there is the Scotch--canny, tenacious, cold, and perhaps a little
exclusive. I tell you, my dear friend, that when these two fellows get to quarrelling among
themselves, it is hard to act as umpire between them."

For every day of my eleven years' association with Woodrow Wilson I have seen some part of
these two natures giving expression to itself. I have witnessed the full play of the Irish
passion for justice and sympathy for the under-dog, the man whom he was pleased to call the
"average man," whose name never emerges to the public view. I have seen the full tide of Irish
passion and human sympathies in him flow at some story of injustice which I had called to his
attention; that Irish sympathy in him expressed itself not dramatically, but in some simple,
modest way; an impulse to lift someone, to help an unfortunate person in distress. That sympathy
might be expressed in the presence of some father, seeking pardon at the hands of the President
in behalf of a wayward son, or some mother pleading for the release of a loved one, or it would
show itself in full sway, as it often did, when I called his attention to some peculiar case
that had evoked my sympathy and pity. And again I saw the Scotch in him--strict, upstanding,
intractable, and unrelenting. I saw the Scotch rise in him when an attempt would be made by
personal friends to influence his action where it was evident to him there was at the base
of it some hint of personal privilege, of favouritism on grounds of friendship. I saw the full
sweep of that Scotch tenacity during the war, in the very midst of that bloody thing, at a
time when bitter ridicule and jeers were his portion. Throughout it he was calm, imperturbable,
undisturbed by the frenzied passions of the moment.

I saw him express the Irish sense of gratitude in a striking way in the White House, in my
presence, as the result of a conference, in which the participants were the President and Senators
Stone and Reed, both of Missouri.

The incident arose out of Senator Reed's failure to get the President to agree to appoint an
intimate friend of Reed's postmaster of St. Louis. Charges, many of them unfounded, had been
made to the Postmaster General's office against the Reed candidate and, although Reed had made
many appeals to Postmaster General Burleson to send the appointment of his friend to the President
for his approval, Burleson refused to do so, and Reed thereupon brought his case to the President.
I remember how generous and courteous the President was in his treatment of Reed and Stone
on this occasion. Senator Stone, in his usual kindly way, walked over to the President and
putting his hand on his shoulder, said: "Now, Mr. President, I want you to do this favour for
my friend, Jim Reed. Jim is a damned good fellow." The President laughingly replied, "Why,
Senator, you just know that there is nothing personal in my attitude in this matter. I have
no desire to injure or humiliate Senator Reed, but the Postmaster General has refused to recommend
the appointment of the Senator's friend for the St. Louis postmastership." The President then
turned to Senator Reed and said, "Senator, I will tell you what I will do for you. I will allow
you to name any other man, outside of the one whose name you have already suggested, and I
will appoint him at once without making any inquiry or investigation whatever as to his qualifications.
This I will do in order to convince you that I have no personal feeling whatever toward you
in this matter." But Senator Reed continued to argue for the appointment of his friend. The
President was adamant. Senator Stone and Senator Reed then turned away from the President and
made their way to my office which was adjoining that of the President. It was plain that the
two Senators were deeply disappointed and highly displeased with the President. As the President
opened the door for the Senators to make their entrance into my room Senator Reed turned to
the President again and in the most emphatic way, said, "Mr. President, Senator Stone told
me before I came to see you that you were not a cold man and that you were a good fellow. It
was upon that hypothesis that I took the liberty of appealing to you personally in behalf of
my friend." Senator Reed then continued, and in the most eloquent short speech I have ever
heard, said, "They tell me that before you became governor of New Jersey you had a fight at
Princeton with the Trustees of that University. You better than any one else in this country
know what it is to have a pack of enemies at your heels. This is what is happening in my friend's
case. My enemies in Missouri have conspired to destroy this man because he has been my friend
and has fought my battles for me. This man whom I have asked you to appoint has been my campaign
manager. He has visited my home; we have been life-long friends, and I will stake my life upon
his reputation and upon his standing. But because he has been my friend he is now to be punished
and now by your action you will complete the conspiracy that is afoot to defeat and destroy him."

The President then said, "But, Senator, I have tried to convince you that there is nothing
personal in my attitude and that I will appoint any other man you may name." Whereupon Senator
Reed said, "If God Almighty himself asked me to surrender in this fight for my friend, I would
not do it. I think I know you well enough to know that in the fight you had for your ideals
and your friends at Princeton, you would not have surrendered to anybody. I am fighting now
for the reputation and the character of my friend, and you ought not to ask me to surrender
him to his executioners."

The President was standing with his arms folded while the Senator was addressing him and was
evidently deeply touched by Reed's appeal. As Reed concluded his eloquent speech in behalf
of his friend quickly the President reached out his hand to Reed and said, "Senator, don't
surrender your friend; stick by him to the end and I will appoint him." Whereupon he turned
from the Senators, walked over to the telephone which stood on my desk, called up the Postmaster
General and directed him to send over to the White House at once the appointment of Senator
Reed's friend for the postmastership at St. Louis. The Postmaster General protested but was
overruled by the President. As the two Senators left my room, Senator Stone said to Senator
Reed, "By God, Jim, I told you so. There is a great man and a true friend. I told you he was
a regular fellow."

It has been said by the enemies of Woodrow Wilson that he was ungrateful, that he never appreciated
the efforts of his friends in his behalf, and that when it came to the question of appointments
he was unmindful of big obligations to them.

The following letter is so characteristic of the man that I beg leave to introduce it:

    The White House,
      Washington D. C.

    April 14, 1916.

    MY DEAR DAVIES:

    Thank you for having let me read this letter again.

    There is one thing that distresses me. The implication of Mr. Alward's
    letter is (or would seem to one who did not know the circumstance to
    be) that I had not shown my gratitude for all the generous things he
    did in promoting my candidacy. Surely he does not feel that. Is it not
    true that I appointed him to the office he now holds? that I did so
    with the greatest pleasure as gratifying his own personal wish, and
    that the office itself has afforded him an opportunity of showing his
    real quality and mettle to the people of his state in the performance
    of duties for which he is eminently qualified? And have I not tried,
    my dear Davies, in every possible way to show my warm and sincere
    appreciation and my loyal friendship both to you and to him? It
    distresses me to find any other implication even latent between the
    lines, and the inference left to be drawn is that if I should not
    appoint him to the Federal Bench, it would be virtually an act of
    ingratitude on my part. I am sure he cannot soberly mean that, for it
    is so far from just.

    It seems to me my clear duty to do in this case as in all others, the
    thing which commends itself to my judgment after the most careful
    consideration as the wisest and best thing, both for the interests of
    the Bench and the interests of the party.

    Always, with real affection,

    Faithfully yours,
      WOODROW WILSON.

    Hon. Joseph E. Davies,
      Federal Trade Commission.

On one of the most critical days of the war, when Lloyd George was crying out in stentorian
tones from across the sea that the war was now a race between Von Hindenburg and Wilson, a
fine old Southern gentleman appeared at my office at the White House, dressed in an old frock
coat and wearing a frayed but tolerably respectable high hat. He was the essence of refinement
and culture and seemed to bring with him to the White House a breath of the old Southland from
which he had come. In the most courteous way he addressed me, saying, "Mr. Secretary, I am
an old friend of the President's father, Doctor Wilson, and I want to see Woodrow. I have not
seen the boy since the old days in Georgia, and I have come all the way up here to shake him
by the hand."

So many requests of a similar nature came to my desk during the critical days of the war and
at a time when the President was heavily burdened with weighty responsibilities that I was
reluctant to grant the old man's request and was about to turn him away with the usual excuse
as to the crowded condition of the President's calendar, etc., when the old man said, "I know
Woodrow will see me for his father and I were old friends." He then told me a story that the
President had often repeated to me about his father. It seems that the old gentleman who was
addressing me was on a hot summer's day many years ago sitting in front of a store in the business
street of Augusta, Georgia, where the President's father was pastor of the Presbyterian Church,
when he sighted the parson, in an old alpaca coat, seated in his buggy driving a well-groomed
gray mare, and called out to him, "Doctor, your horse looks better groomed than yourself."
"Yes," replied Doctor Wilson dryly as he drove on, "I take care of my horse; my congregation
takes care of me."

I knew that if I repeated this story to the President it would be the open sesame for the old
man. I excused myself and quickly made my way to the Cabinet Room where the President was holding
a conference with the Cabinet members. After making my excuses to the Cabinet for my interruption,
I whispered into the President's ear that there was an old man in my office who knew his father
very well in the old days in Georgia and that he wanted an opportunity to shake hands with
him. I then said to the President, "He told me the old horse story, the one that you have often
told me. I am sure that he is an old friend of your father's." This struck the President's
most tender spot, for many times during the years of our association the President had regaled
me with delightful stories of his father and of the tender, solicitous way in which his father
had cared for him. One of the passions of President Wilson's life was his love for and recollection
of that old father, himself a man of remarkable force of character and intellect. Turning to
the members of the Cabinet, the President said, "Gentlemen, will you please excuse me for a
few minutes?" When I told the fine old chap that the President would see him at once he almost
collapsed. Then, fixing himself up, rearranging his old frock coat, taking his high hat in
hand, striking a statesmanlike posture, he walked into the President's office. No words passed
between the two men for a few seconds. The old man looked silently at the President, with pride
and admiration plainly visible in his eyes, and then walked slowly toward the President and
took both his hands. Releasing them, he put one of his arms around the President's shoulder
and looking straight into the President's eyes, he said, "Woodrow, my boy, your old father
was a great friend of mine and he was mighty proud of you. He often told me that some day you
would be a great man and that you might even become President." While the old man was addressing
him the President stood like a big bashful schoolboy, and I could see that the old man touched
the mystic chord of memories that were very sweet and dear to the President. Removing his arm
from about the President's shoulder, the old man said, "Well, well, Woodrow, what shall I say
to you?" Then, answering his own question, he said, "I shall say to you what your dear old
father would have said were he here: 'Be a good boy, my son, and may God bless you and take
care of you!'"

The President said nothing, but I could see that his lips were quivering. For a moment he stood
still, in his eyes the expression of one who remembers things of long ago and sacred. Then
he seemed, as with an effort, to summon himself, and his thoughts back to the present, and
I saw him walk slowly toward the door of the Cabinet Room, place one hand on the knob, with
the other brush his handkerchief across his eyes. I saw him throw back his shoulders and grow
erect again as he opened the door, and I heard him say in quiet, steady tones, "I hope you
will pardon the interruption, gentlemen."

The popular cry of the unthinking against Woodrow Wilson in the early days of his administration
was that he was a pacifist and unwilling to fight. The gentlemen who uttered these unkind criticisms
were evidently unmindful of the moral courage he manifested in the various fights in which
he had participated in his career, both at Princeton University, where he served as president,
and as governor of New Jersey, in challenging the "old guard" of both parties to mortal combat
for the measures of reform which he finally brought to enactment. They also forgot the moral
courage which he displayed in fighting the tariff barons and ha procuring the enactment of
the Underwood tariff, and of the fine courage he manifested in decentralizing the financial
control of the country and bringing about the Federal Reserve Act, which now has the whole-hearted
approval of the business world in America and elsewhere, but which was resisted in the making
by powerful interests.

I do not wish to make an invidious comparison between Woodrow Wilson and his predecessors in
the White House, but if one will examine the political history of this country, he will find
that very few Presidents had ever succeeded, because of the powerful interests they were compelled
to attack, in finally putting upon the statute books any legislation that could control the
moneyed interests of the country. The reform of the tariff and the currency had been the rocks
upon which many administrations had met disaster.

Nearly every adviser about Woodrow Wilson, even those who had had experience in the capital
of the nation, warned him that he might, after a long fight, succeed in reforming the tariff,
but that his efforts would fail if he attempted to pass a bill that would establish currency
reform. But the President allowed nothing to stand in the way of the establishment of the Federal
Reserve system without which the financing of the greatest war in the history of the world
would have been impossible. It was his courage and his persistency that provided the first
uniform and harmonious system of banking which the United States has ever had.

If Woodrow Wilson had accomplished nothing more than the passage of this Federal Reserve Act,
he would have been entitled to the gratitude of the nation. This Act supplied the country with
an elastic currency controlled by the American people. Panics--the recurring phenomena of disaster
which the Republican party could neither control nor explain--are now but a memory. Under the
Republican system there was an average of one bank failure every twenty-one days for a period
of nearly forty years. After the passage of the Federal Reserve system there were, in 1915,
four bank failures; in 1916 and 1917, three bank failures; in 1918, one bank failure; and in
1919, no bank failures at all.

Woodrow Wilson is not a showy fighter, but he is a tenacious and a courageous one.

A little story came to me at the White House, illustrating alike the calmness and the fighting
quality of Woodrow Wilson. The incident happened while he was a student at the University of
Virginia. It appears that some of the University boys went to a circus and had got into a fight
with the circus men and been sadly worsted. They called a meeting at "wash hall," as they termed
it. Many of the boys made ringing speeches, denouncing the brutality and unfairness of the
circus people and there was much excitement. It was then moved that all the boys present should
proceed to the circus and give proper battle, to vindicate the honour of the college. Just
before the motion was put a slim, black-haired, solemn youth arose from his seat in the rear
of the hall, and walking up the aisle, requested a hearing. He stated that perhaps he was being
forward, because he was a "first-year" man, in asking to be heard; that he felt that the action
of the circus men deserved the severest condemnation; that it was a natural impulse to want
to punish cowardly acts and to "clean up" the show; but that it was lawlessness they were about
to engage in; that it would bring disgrace on the college, as well as on the state and the
Southland; more than this, many of the showmen would be armed with clubs, knives, and pistols,
and if the boys did go, some of them might not come back alive and others might be maimed or
crippled for life. He then paused, but resuming, said, "However, if my views do not meet with
your approval; if you decide to go as a body, or if a single man wants to go to fight, I shall
ask to go with him."

Was not his attitude in this incident characteristic of his dealing with Germany? He was patient
with Germany and stood unmoved under the bitterest criticism and ridicule; but when he found
that patience was no longer a virtue, he went into the war in the most ruthless way and punished
Germany for her attempt to control the high seas.

I recall my own antagonism to him in New Jersey when I was engaged, as now certain of his enemies
are engaged, in attacking him, and I recall how my opposition abated and altogether disappeared
by the recital by one of his friends to me one day of the controversy among the Princeton Trustees
that arose over the now-famous Proctor gift. I was discussing the Princeton professor with
this old friend one day and I said to him that I suspected that Wall Street interests were
back of his candidacy for the governorship. My friend said, "Tumulty, you are wrong. There
is no unwholesome interest or influence back of Wilson. I tell you he is a fine fellow and
if he is elected governor, he will be a free man." He then cited the instance of the Princeton
fight over the Proctor gift. It will be recalled that Mr. Proctor bequeathed to Princeton University
a large sum of money, but attached certain conditions to the gift that had to do with the policy
or internal control of the University. The gift was made at a time when Princeton was in sore
need of funds. President Wilson, in a prolonged fight, bitterly waged by some who had been
his close personal friends, persuaded the Board of Trustees to vote, by a narrow margin, for
rejection of the gift on the grounds that a great educational institution could not afford
to have its internal policies dictated by purchase on the part of a rich man. By his position
he alienated from his leadership many of the wealthy, influential Princeton alumni, especially
in the larger Eastern cities, but he stood like a rock on the principle that the educational
policy of a college must be made by those authorized to make it and not changed at the bidding
of wealthy benefactors. This was a convincing answer to my attack upon the Princeton professor.

This same moral courage was given free play on many an occasion during our intimacy. It was
made manifest in the famous Panama Tolls fight, at a time when he was warned that a fight made
to rectify mistakes in the matter of Panama tolls would destroy his political future.

He was always a fair fighter and a gentleman throughout every contest he engaged in. Many unkind
and untrue things were said about Woodrow Wilson from the time he entered politics, but there
is one charge that has never been made against him and that is the charge of untruthfulness
or "hitting below the belt." No one in the country during his eight years at the White House
ever charged him with making an untrue statement. No politician or statesman ever said that
Wilson had broken a promise, though many have complained that he would not make promises.

In the matter of promises I never met a man who was so reluctant to give a promise, especially
in the matter of bestowing office upon willing candidates. I have known him on many occasions
to make up his mind for months in advance to appoint a certain man and yet he would not say
so to his most intimate friends who urged it. Speaking to me one day about the matter of promises,
he said, "The thing to do is to keep your mind open until you are bound to act. Then you have
freedom of action to change your mind without being charged with bad faith."

One reason for the charge made against him of coldness and "political ingratitude" was that
he steadfastly refused to barter public offices for political support. He is by instinct, as
well as by conviction, utterly opposed to the "spoils system." He considers government the
people's business to be conducted as such and not as a matter of personal exchange of political
favours. Nor can those who failed to get from him what they fancied their political services
earned, complain truthfully that they were deceived by him into supposing that he shared their
own opinion of their deserts. Frequently they had explicit warning to the contrary. There was
the case of Jim Smith and the New Jersey machine, for instance. When those gentlemen paid the
president of Princeton University an unsolicited call to suggest that he be candidate for the
Democratic nomination for the governorship of New Jersey, Mr. Wilson, after thanking them for
the compliment, with disconcerting directness asked, "Gentlemen, why do you want me as the
candidate?" They replied, because they believed he could be elected and they wanted a Democratic
governor. He asked why they believed he could be elected, he who had never held any public
office. They answered that the people of New Jersey would have confidence in him. "Precisely,"
said Mr. Wilson; "they will have confidence in me because they will believe that I am free
of the political entanglements which have brought distress to New Jersey, because they are
tired of political bargain and sale, because they want their government delivered back into
their hands. They want a government pledged to nobody but themselves. Now, don't you see, gentlemen,
that if I should consider your flattering suggestion, I must be what the people think I am.
I must be free to consider nothing but their interests. There must be no strings tied to your
proposal. I cannot consider it an obligation of returned personal favours to any individual.
We must clearly understand that we are acting in the interest of the people of New Jersey and
in the interest of nobody else." If the self-constituted committee thought this merely handsome
talk without specific meaning, they had only themselves to thank for their subsequent predicament.
They found he meant exactly what he said.

There has never been a public man in America with a profounder faith in popular government,
or a stronger conviction that the bane of free government is secret bargaining among those
ambitious to trade public office for private benefits. Mr. Wilson could no more pay for political
support from public offices than he could pay for it from the public treasury. He abhors all
forms of political favoritism including nepotism. He not only would not appoint kinsmen to
office; he would discountenance their appointment by others. He resisted the efforts of well-meaning
friends to have his brother, Mr. Joseph R. Wilson, Jr., who had rendered a substantial service
to the 1912 campaign by his effective work as a trained journalist, elected secretary of the
United States Senate, saying that his brother in this position would inevitably be misunderstood,
would be thought a spy on the Senate to report matters to the President. His son-in-law, Mr.
Francis B. Sayre, is by profession a student of international law, a professor of the subject
in Harvard University, and as such was employed by Colonel House on the research committee
preparatory to the Paris Conference. Mr. Sayre assumed he was to go to Paris, but the President
set his personal veto on this, saying that it would not do for the President's son-in-law to
be on a list of those who were going abroad at the public expense. When Mr. Sayre asked if
he could not go and pay his own expenses, the President replied, "No, because it would not
be believed that you had really paid your own expenses." Mr. Sayre, respecting the President's
views, did not press the claim.

If it has appeared that the President has sometimes "leaned backward" in these matters, it
is because of his strong conviction that politicians have leaned too far forward in using public
office for private rewards, a bad system toward which the President's attitude may be stated
in Hamlet's impatient injunction to the players, "Oh, reform it altogether!"

My experiences with him, where one could witness the full play of the Scotch and Irish strains
in him, came particularly in the matter of the numerous pardon cases and the applications for
Executive Orders, placing this man or that woman under the classified civil service. The latter
were only issued in rare instances and always over the protest of the Civil Service Commission.
In many of these applications there was a great heartache or family tragedy back of them and
to every one of them he gave the most sympathetic consideration.

I remember his remark to me one day when I was urging him to sign an Executive Order in behalf
of a poor woman, the widow of an old soldier. After I had argued with him for a time he turned
to me and said, "Every unfortunate person in distress seems to come to me for relief, but I
must not let my sympathies get the best of me, it would not be right to do these things upon
any basis of sympathy." Although I stood rebuked, the order was signed. It was a thing urged
against him in the last campaign, that he held the record for the number of Executive Orders
issued by him. His Scotch nature would also assert itself on many occasions. While I was living
with the President at the White House one summer, on a night after dinner we engaged in the
discussion of an article which appeared that month in one of the popular magazines of the country.
In this article Woodrow Wilson was portrayed as a great intellectual machine. Turning to me,
he said, "Tumulty, have you read that article? What do you think of it?" I said that I thought
in many respects it was admirable. "I don't agree with you at all," he said. "It is no compliment
to me to have it said that I am only a highly developed intellectual machine. Good God, there
is more in me than that!" He then said, rather sadly, "Well, I want people to love me, but
I suppose they never will." He then asked me this question, "Do you think I am cold and unfeeling?"
I replied, "No, my dear Governor, I think you are one of the warmest hearted men I ever met."

And when I say this of Woodrow Wilson I mean it. I hope I have all of the generous tendencies
of my race and that I know a great heart when I see its actions. I could not have been associated
with him all these years, witnessing the great heart in action, without having full faith in
what I now say. No man of all my acquaintance, with whom I have discussed life in all of its
phases and tragedies, at least those tragedies that stalked in and out of the White House,
was more responsive, more sympathetic, and more inclined to pity and help than Woodrow Wilson.
His eyes would fill with tears at the tale of some unfortunate man or woman in distress. It
was not a cheap kind of sympathy. It was quiet, sincere, but always from the heart. The President
continued talking to me--and now he spoke as the canny Scot--"I am cold in a certain sense.
Were I a judge and my own son should be convicted of murder, and I was the only judge privileged
to pass judgment upon the case, I would do my duty even to the point of sentencing him to death.
It would be a hard thing to do but it would be my solemn duty as a judge to do it, but I would
do it, because the state cannot be maintained and its sovereignty vindicated or its integrity
preserved unless the law is strictly enforced and without favour. It is the business of the
judge to uphold it and he must do it to the point of every sacrifice. If he fails, justice
fails, the state falls. That looks cold- blooded, doesn't it? But I would do it." Then his
voice lowered and he said, "Then, after sentencing my own son to death, I would go out and
die of a broken heart, for it would surely kill me."

That is one key to the character of the man that was revealed before my own eyes in the years
of our intimacy.

It showed itself on many other occasions. It was his idea of the duty of the trustee, the judge,
the guardian.

I remember a visit that two very warm friends from the Pacific Coast made to him, both of whom
had worked night and day for his cause in the great state of the Golden West.

Their son had been convicted and was incarcerated in the Federal Prison. They had every personal
reason for feeling that a mere appeal on their part on behalf of this son would be a winning
one, for their friendship with the President was one of long standing and most affectionate
in character. I can see him now, standing in the centre of the room, with the two old people
grouped about him, shaking his head and saying, "I wish I could do it, but I must not allow
personal consideration to influence me in the least. I know it is hard for you to believe that
I will turn away from your request, but the only basis upon which you make it is our friendship.
I would be doing an injustice to many a boy like yours who has similarly offended and for whom
no one is able to speak or approach me in the intimate contact which is your privilege. Please
do not think me cold- hearted, but I cannot do it."

I remember one of the last pardon cases we handled in the White House was that of an old man,
charged with violating the banking laws and sentenced to imprisonment. I pleaded with the President
to pardon the old man; the Attorney General had recommended it, and some of the warm-hearted
members of the President's family had gone to him and sought to exert their influence in behalf
of the old man. It seemed as if everything was moving smoothly and that the old man might be
pardoned, until the family influence was brought to bear. It was the last pardon case I brought
to his attention before the fall of the curtain on March fourth. I went to him, and said, "My
dear Governor, I hope you will close your official career here by doing an act of mercy." He
smiled at me and I thought I could see the prison gates open for the old man, but when I mentioned
the name in the case, the President stiffened up, stopped smiling, and looking at me in the
coldest way, said, "I will not pardon this man. Certain members of my family to whom I am deeply
devoted, as you know, have sought to influence my judgment in this matter. They have no right
to do it. I should be unworthy of my trust as President were I to permit family interference
of any kind to affect my public actions, because very few people in the country can exert that
kind of influence and it must not be tolerated." The case was closed; the pardon refused.

He often spoke to me in the frankest way of his personal appearance; how he looked and appeared
and of the "old Scotch face," as he called it, which gave him the appearance of what Caesar
called a "lean and hungry look." Speaking at the annual banquet of the Motion Picture Board
of Trade, he discussed his personal appearance in this way:

"I have sometimes been very much chagrined in seeing myself in a motion picture. I have wondered
if I really was that kind of a 'guy.' The extraordinary rapidity with which I walked, for example,
the instantaneous and apparently automatic nature of my motion, the way in which I produced
uncommon grimaces, and altogether the extraordinary exhibition I made of myself sends me to
bed very unhappy. And I often think to myself that, although all the world is a stage and men
and women but actors upon it, after all, the external appearance of things are very superficial
indeed."

He knew that his facial expression gave one the impression that he was a cold and canny Scot.
In repose one would get that impression, but when that old Scotch face took on a winning smile
it was most gracious and appealing. One of his favourite limericks was:

  For beauty I am not a star,
  There are others more handsome by far.
  But my face I don't mind it,
  For I am behind it,
  It's the people in front that I jar.

Behind the cold exterior and beneath the "gleam of the waters" there was a warm, generous heart.
I have often thought of the character discussed by Israel Zangwill in his book "The Mantle
of Elijah." These lines, in my opinion, draw a perfect picture of Woodrow Wilson as I knew him:

Speaking of Allegra's father Zangwill said:

"With him freedom was no nebulous figure, aureoled with shining rhetoric, blowing her own trumpet,
but Free Trade, Free Speech, Free Education. He did not rail against the Church as the enemy,
but he did not count on it as a friend. His Millennium was earthly, human; his philosophy sunny,
untroubled by Dantesque depths or shadows; his campaign unmartial, constitutional, a frank
focussing of the new forces emergent from the slow dissolution of Feudalism and the rapid growth
of a modern world. Towards such a man the House of Commons had an uneasy hostility. He did
not play the game. Whig and Tory, yellow and blue, the immemorial shuffling of Cabinet cards,
the tricks and honours--he seemed to live outside them all. He was no clubman in 'The best
club in England.' He did not debate for argument's sake or to upset Ministers. He was not bounded
by the walls of the Chamber nor ruler from the Speaker's chair; the House was resentfully conscious
it had no final word over his reputation or his influence. He stood for something outside it,
something outside himself, something large, vague, turbulent, untried, unplumbed, unknown--the
People."

A little incident illustrating the warmth of the heart of Woodrow Wilson and the sympathetic
way he manifested his feeling came to me in a letter received at the White House in 1920 from
a Red Cross nurse, who was stationed at the Red Cross Base Hospital at Neuilly, France. An
excerpt from it follows:

    I might interest you to recite an incident within my own personal
    knowledge that proves the depths of his sympathy--his sincerity. I was
    one of the unit of Red Cross Workers who went to France to help our
    soldiers blinded in battle. I was at the time of this incident
    stationed at the Red Cross Base Hospital No. I at Neuilly. After a
    visit of the President and Mrs. Wilson to the hospital, one of my
    charges, a totally blind private to whom Mr. Wilson had spoken, said
    to me: "Miss Farrell, I guess the President must be very tired." I
    said, "Why do you think that, Walter?" "Well, because," replied the
    soldier, "he laughed and joked with all the other fellows but was so
    quiet when he talked with me and just said, 'Honourable wound, my
    boy,' so low I could hardly hear him. But say," continued Walter,
    "look at my hand please and see if it is all there, will you? The
    President sure has some hand and he used it when he shook hands. I'll
    say."

    The fact was, Walter was the first blind soldier the President had met
    in France and knowing from experience the appeal the blind make to our
    emotions, I knew the President was so touched that he was overcome and
    couldn't joke further--he was scarcely able to manage the one remark
    and could not trust himself to venture another, 'Twas with tears in
    his eyes and a choking voice that he managed the one. Both he and Mrs.
    Wilson wept in that blind ward.

As a political fighter, he was gallant and square. No one ever heard him call an opponent a
name or knew him unworthily to take advantage of an opponent.

Illustrative of the magnanimous attitude of the President toward his political enemies was
the striking incident that occurred a few weeks before the close of the last Presidential campaign,
1920. Early one afternoon two Democratic friends called upon me at the Executive offices and
informed me that they could procure certain documents that would go a long way toward discrediting
the Republican campaign and that they could be procured for a money consideration. They explained
the character of the documents to me and left it to me to say what I considered a fair price
for them. They explained the serious nature of these documents, and it was certainly a delicate
situation for me to handle and embarrassed me greatly. I was reluctant to offend these gentlemen,
and yet I was certain from what they said that the documents, as they explained them to me,
even though they might discredit the Republican campaign, were not of a character that any
party of decent men ought to have anything to do with. When the gentlemen told me the name
of the person who claimed to have these damaging papers in his possession, I at once recalled
that we had in the files of the White House certain letters that could be used to discredit
this very man who claimed to possess these incriminating documents. I thought it wise, therefore,
to listen politely to these gentlemen until I could get a chance to confer with the President.
I did this at once.

At this time the President was lying ill in his sick room at the White House. The nurse raised
him up in the bed and I explained the whole situation to him, saying to him that it was my
opinion that the Democratic party ought not to have anything to do with such a matter and that
I thought we should at once apprise the Republican managers of the plan that was afoot to discredit
by these unfair means the Republican candidate and campaign. When I told the President of the
character of these documents that had been offered to me he was filled with indignation and
said, "If we can't win this fight by fair means, we will not attempt to win it by unfair means.
You have my authority to use whatever files we have against this party who would seek unfairly
to attack the Republican nominee and you must at once notify the Republican managers of the
plan proposed and explain the whole situation to them. Say to the Attorney General that he
must place at the disposal of Mr. Harding and his friends every officer he has, if necessary,
to disclose and overcome this plot. I am sure that Governor Cox will agree with me that this
is the right and decent thing to do."

Acting upon the President's suggestion, I at once called upon a certain Republican senator
from the West, now a member of President Harding's Cabinet, and told him of the proposed plot
that was afoot to discredit the Republican campaign. I told him I was acting upon the express
authority of the President. He expressed his high appreciation of the information I had brought
him and informed me that he would place the matter in our hands with the utmost confidence
in us to handle it honourably.

It ought to be said here that upon investigation, personally made by myself, I found that there
was nothing in this whole matter that in the slightest degree reflected upon the honour or
the integrity or high standing of President Harding.

One of the things for which President Wilson was unduly censured shortly after he took office
was the recognition he gave to his political enemies in the Democratic party. The old-line
politicians who had supported him in 1912 could not understand why the loaves and fishes were
dealt out to these unworthy ones. Protests were made to the President by some of his close
personal friends, but he took the position that as the leader of the party he was not going
to cause resentment and antagonisms by seeming to classify Democrats; that as leader of his
party he had to recognize all factions, and there quickly followed appointments of Clark men,
Underwood men, Harmon men, all over the country. A case in point illustrates the bigness of
the President in these matters--that of George Fred Williams as Minister to Greece. In the
campaign of 1912 Mr. Williams had travelled up and down the state of Massachusetts making the
bitterest sort of attacks upon Woodrow Wilson. I remember how I protested against this appointment.
The President's only reply was that George Fred Williams was an eccentric fellow, but that
he believed he was thoroughly honest. "I have no fault to find, Tumulty, with the men who disagree
with me and I ought not to penalize them when they give expression to what they believe are
honest opinions."

I have never seen him manifest any bitterness or resentment toward even his bitterest, most
implacable enemies. Even toward William Randolph Hearst, whose papers throughout the country
have been his most unrelenting foes, he never gave expression to any ill feeling or chagrin
at the unfair attacks that were made upon him. I remember a little incident that shows the
trend of his feelings in this regard, that occurred when we were discussing the critical Mexican
situation. At this time the Hearst papers were engaged in a sensational propaganda in behalf
of intervention in Mexico. The President said to me, "I heard of a delightful remark that that
fine old lady, Mrs. Phoebe Hearst, made with reference to what she called her 'big boy Willie.'
You know," he continued, "Mrs. Hearst does not favour intervention in Mexico and it was reported
to me that she chided her son for his flaming headlines urging intervention, and told him that
unless he behaved better she would have to take him over her knee and spank him."

The President has one great failing, inherent in the very character of the man himself, and
this is his inborn, innate modesty--his unwillingness to dramatize the part he played in the
great events of the war, so that the plain people of the country could see him and better understand
him. There is no man living to-day who has a greater power of personal appeal or who is a greater
master in the art of presenting ideals, facts, and arguments than Woodrow Wilson. As his secretary
for nearly eleven years, I was often vexed because he did not, to use a newspaper phrase, "play
up" better, but he was always averse to doing anything that seemed artificially contrived to
win applause. Under my own eyes, seated in the White House offices, I have witnessed many a
great story walk in and out but the President always admonished us that such things must not
be pictured or capitalized in any way for political purposes; and thus every attempt we made
to dramatize him, as Colonel Roosevelt's friends had played him up, was immediately placed
under the Presidential embargo.

His unwillingness to allow us in the White House to "play him up" as the leading actor in this
or that movement was illustrated in the following way: On July 1, 1919, a cable reached the
White House from His Holiness, Pope Benedict, expressing the appreciation of His Holiness for
the magnificent way in which the President had presented to the Peace Conference the demands
of the Catholic Church regarding Catholic missions, and conveying to the President his thanks
for the manner in which the President had supported those demands. The cable came at a time
when certain leaders of my own church, the Roman Catholic Church, were criticizing and opposing
the President for what they thought was his anti- Catholic attitude. I tried to induce the
President to allow me to give publicity to the Pope's cable, but he was firm in his refusal.
The cable from the Pope and the President's reply are as follows:

    Rome, The Vatican.
      1 July, 1919.

    TO HIS EXCELLENCY,
      Doctor Woodrow Wilson,
      President of the United States.

    EXCELLENCY:

    Monsignor Carretti, upon his return from Paris, hastened to inform us
    with what spirit of moderation Your Excellency examined the demands
    regarding the Catholic Missions which we presented to the Peace
    Conference, and with what zeal Your Excellency subsequently supported
    these demands. We desire to express to you our sincere gratitude and
    at the same time we urge Your Excellency to be good enough to employ
    your great influence, also, in order to prevent the action, which
    according to the Peace Treaty with Germany it is desired to bring
    against the Kaiser and the highly placed German commanders. This
    action could only render more bitter national hatred and postpone for
    a long time that pacification of souls for which all nations long.
    Furthermore, this trial, if the rules of justice are to be observed,
    would meet insurmountable difficulties as may be seen from the
    attached article from the Osservatore Romano, which deals
    exclusively with the trial of the Kaiser, the newspaper reserving
    right to treat in another article the question of the trial of the
    generals.

    It pleases us to take advantage of this new occasion to renew to Your
    Excellency the wishes which we entertain for your prosperity and that
    of your family, as well as for the happiness of the inhabitants of the
    Confederation of the United States.

    (Signed) BENEDICTUS PP. XV.

           *       *       *       *       *

    The White House,
      Washington, D. C.

    15 August, 1919.

    YOUR HOLINESS:

    I have had the pleasure of receiving at the hands of Monsignor Cossio
    the recent letter you were kind enough to write me, which I now beg to
    acknowledge with sincere appreciation. Let me assure you that it was
    with the greatest pleasure that I lent my influence to safeguarding
    the missionary interests to which you so graciously refer, and I am
    happy to say that my colleagues in the Conference were all of the same
    mind in this wish to throw absolute safeguards around such missions
    and to keep them within the influences under which they had hitherto
    been conducted.

    I have read with the gravest interest your suggestion about the
    treatment which should be accorded the ex-Kaiser of Germany and the
    military officers of high rank who were associated with him in the
    war, and beg to say that I realize the force of the considerations
    which you urge. I am obliged to you for setting them so clearly, and
    shall hope to keep them in mind in the difficult months to come. With
    much respect and sincere good wishes for your welfare,

    Respectfully and sincerely yours,
      (Signed) WOODROW WILSON.

    His Holiness,
      Pope Benedict XV.

There was something too fine in his nature for the dramatics and the posturings of the political
game, as it is usually played. He is a very shy man, too sincere to pose, too modest to make
advances. He craves the love of his fellow-men with all his heart and soul. People see only
his dignity, his reserve, but they cannot see his big heart yearning for the love of his fellow-men.
Out of that loving heart of his has come the passion which controlled his whole public career--the
passion for justice, for fair dealing, and democracy.

Never during the critical days of the war, when requests of all kinds poured in upon him for
interviews of various sorts, did he lose his good- nature. Nor did he show that he was disturbed
when various requests came from this or that man who claimed to have discovered some scientific
means of ending the war.

The following letter to his old friend, Mr. Thomas D. Jones of Chicago, is characteristic of
his feeling toward those who claimed to have made such a scientific discovery:

    The White House, Washington,
      25 July 1917.

    My dear friend:

    It was generous of you to see Mr. Kenney and test his ideas. I hope
    you derived some amusement from it at least. I am afraid I have grown
    soft-hearted and credulous in these latter days, credulous in respect
    to the scientific possibility of almost any marvel and soft-hearted
    because of the many evidences of simple-hearted purpose this war has
    revealed to me.

    With warmest regard,

    Cordially and faithfully yours,
      (Signed) WOODROW WILSON.

Nor did the little things of life escape him, as is shown by the following letter to Attorney
General Gregory:

    The White House, Washington,
      1 October, 1918.

    MY DEAR GREGORY:

    The enclosed letter from his wife was handed to me this morning by a
    rather pitiful old German whom I see occasionally looking after the
    flowers around the club house at the Virginia Golf Course. I must say
    it appeals to me, and I am sending it to you to ask if there is any
    legitimate way in which the poor old fellow could be released from his
    present restrictions.

    In haste,

    Faithfully yours,
      (Signed) WOODROW WILSON.

I recall a day when he sat at his typewriter in the White House, preparing the speech he was
to deliver at Hodgensville, Kentucky, in connection with the formal acceptance of the Lincoln
Memorial, built over the log cabin birthplace of Lincoln. When he completed this speech, which
I consider one of his most notable public addresses--perhaps in literary form, his best-- he
turned to me and asked me if I had any comment to make upon it. I read it very carefully. I
then said to him, "Governor, there are certain lines in it that might be called a self-revelation
of Woodrow Wilson."

To Woodrow Wilson the business of government was a solemn thing, to which he gave every ounce
of his energy and his great intellectual power. No President in the whole history of America
ever carried weightier responsibilities than he. Night and day, with uncomplaining patience,
he was at his post of duty, attending strictly to the pressing needs of the nation, punctiliously
meeting every engagement, great or small. Indeed, no man that I ever met was more careless
about himself or thought less of vacations for the purpose of rest and recuperation.

There are three interesting maps which show the mileage covered by Presidents Roosevelt, Taft,
and Wilson. These maps show the states traversed by each of the Presidents. Great black smudges
show the trail covered by President Roosevelt, which included every state in the Union, and
equally large black marks show the territory covered by President Taft, but only a thin line
shows the peregrinations and wanderings of President Wilson. The dynamic, forceful personality
of Mr. Roosevelt, which radiated energy, charm, and good-nature, and the big, vigorous, lovable
personality of Mr. Taft, put the staid, simple, modest, retiring personality of the New Jersey
President, Mr. Wilson, at a tremendous disadvantage. Into the atmosphere created by these winning
personalities of Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Taft the personality of Mr. Wilson did not easily fit,
and he realized it, when he said to me one day, "Tumulty, you must realize that I am not built
for the dramatic things of politics. I do not want to be displayed before the public, and if
I tried it, I should do it badly."

Without attempting to belittle the great achievements of former Presidents of the United States,
particularly Roosevelt, it is only fair to say that, comparing the situations which confronted
them with those that met President Wilson from the very beginning of his incumbency, their
jobs were small. As a genial Irishman once said to me, "Hell broke loose when Wilson took hold."
Every unusual thing, every extraordinary thing, seemed to break and break against us. From
the happening of the Dayton flood, which occurred in the early days of the Wilson Administration,
down to the moment when he laid down the reins of office, it seemed as if the world in which
we lived was at the point of revolution. Unusual, unprecedented, and remarkable things began
to happen, things that required all the patience, indomitable courage, and tenacity of the
President to hold them steady. The Mexican situation, left on our door-step, was one of the
great burdens that he carried during his administration. Then came the fight for the revision
of the tariff, the establishment of the Federal Reserve System, all items that constituted
the great programme of domestic reform which emanated from the brain of Woodrow Wilson, and
then in the midst of it all came the European war, the necessity for neutrality, the criticism
which was heaped upon the President for every unusual happening which his critics seemed to
think called for intervention of the United States in this great cataclysm. It was not a time
for the camaraderie and good- fellowship that had characterized the good old days in which
Mr. Roosevelt served as President.

And yet no man was less exclusive in dealing with the members of the Senate and House. In preparing
the Federal Reserve Act in collaboration with Senator Glass, he was constantly in touch with
the members of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, in an endeavour to make clear the
road for the passage of this important piece of constructive legislation. Constant demands
were made upon his time and he gave of his energy and of the small reserve of strength that
he had uncomplainingly and without a protest. No rest, no recreation, no vacation intervened.
Every measure that he sought to press to enactment was the challenge to a great fight, as,
for instance, the tariff, the currency, the rural credits, and the Panama tolls acts.

I have often been asked whether anger or passion ever showed itself in the President, and I
am reminded of a little incident that happened at the White House during one of those conferences
with the newspaper men, which, before the days of the war, and for a long time afterward, took
place in the Executive offices. At the time of this particular conference, the President's
first wife lay seriously ill at the White House, and stories were carried in the various newspapers
exaggerating the nature of her illness, some of them going so far as to say she was suffering
from this or from that disease. At the very time these stories were appearing in the newspapers
there were also articles that his daughter, Margaret, was engaged to marry this man or that
man. The President came to the newspaper men's conference this morning fighting mad. It was
plain that something serious was afoot. Taking hold of the back of the chair, as if to strengthen
himself for what he had to say, he looked squarely at the newspaper men and said, "I hope that
you gentlemen will pardon me for a personal word this morning. I have read the stories that
have appeared in certain newspapers of the country, containing outrageous statements about
the illness of my wife and the marriage of my daughter. I realize that as President of the
United States you have a perfect right to say anything you damn please about me, for I am a
man and I can defend myself. I know that while I am President it will be my portion to receive
all kinds of unfair criticism, and I would be a poor sport if I could not stand up under it;
but there are some things, gentlemen, that I will not tolerate. You must let my family alone,
for they are not public property. I acquit every man in this room of responsibility for these
stories. I know that you have had nothing to do with them; but you have feelings and I have
feelings, even though I am President. My daughter has no brother to defend her, but she has
me, and I want to say to you that if these stories ever appear again I will leave the White
House and thrash the man who dares to utter them."

A little letter came to my notice in which the President replies to an old friend in Massachusetts
who had asked him to attempt to interpret himself:

    MY DEAR FRIEND:

    You have placed an impossible task upon me--that of interpreting
    myself to you. All I can say in answer to your inquiry is that I have
    a sincere desire to serve, to be of some little assistance in
    improving the condition of the average man, to lift him up, and to
    make his life more tolerable, agreeable, and comfortable. In doing
    this I try hard to purge my heart of selfish motives. It will only be
    known when I am dead whether or not I have succeeded.

    Sincerely your friend,
      WOODROW WILSON.

CHAPTER XLV

THE SAN FRANCISCO CONVENTION

During the winter of 1919-1920 President Wilson was the target of vicious assaults. Mrs. Wilson
and Admiral Grayson with difficulty curbed his eagerness to take a leading hand in the fight
over the Peace Treaty in the Senate, and to organize the Democratic party on a fighting basis.
It was not until after the Chicago Convention had nominated Mr. Harding and enunciated a platform
repudiating the solemn obligations of the United States to the rest of the world that the President
broke his silence of many months. Because he had something he wanted to say to the country
he asked me to send for Louis Seibold, a trusted friend and an experienced reporter, then connected
with the New York World. When Mr. Seibold arrived in Washington on the Tuesday following Mr.
Harding's nomination, the President talked unreservedly and at length with him, discussed the
Republican Convention, characterized its platform as "the apotheosis of reaction," and declared
that "it should have quoted Bismarck and Bernhardi rather than Washington and Lincoln." During
the two days of Mr. Seibold's visit to the White House he had abundant opportunity to observe
the President's condition of health which had been cruelly misrepresented by hostile newspapers.
Mr. Seibold found him much more vigorous physically than the public had been given to understand
and mentally as alert and aggressive as he had been before his illness. Mr. Seibold's article,
which by the way was regarded as a journalistic classic and for which Columbia University awarded
the author the Pulitzer prize for the best example of newspaper reporting of the year, exposed
the absurd rumours about the President's condition and furnished complete evidence of his determination
to fight for the principles to establish which he had struggled so valiantly and sacrificed
so much.

As the days of the San Francisco Convention approached those of us who were intimately associated
with the President at the White House were warned by him that in the Convention fight soon
to take place we must play no favourites; that the Convention must be, so far as the White
House was concerned, a free field and no favour, and that our attitude of "hands off" and strict
neutrality must be maintained. Some weeks before the Convention met the President conferred
with me regarding the nominations, and admonished me that the White House must keep hands off,
saying that it had always been charged in the past that every administration sought to use
its influence in the organization of the party to throw the nomination this way or that. Speaking
to me of the matter, he said, "We must make it clear to everyone who consults us that our attitude
is to be impartial in fact as well as in spirit. Other Presidents have sought to influence
the naming of their successors. Their efforts have frequently brought about scandals and factional
disputes that have split the party. This must not happen with us. We must not by any act seek
to give the impression that we favour this or that man."

This attitude was in no way an evidence of the President's indifference to the nominee of the
Convention, or to what might happen at San Francisco. He was passionately anxious that his
party's standard bearer should win at the election if for no other reason than to see his own
policies continued and the League of Nations vindicated.

There was another and personal reason why he insisted that no White House interference should
be brought into play for any particular nominee. His son-in-law, Mr. William G. McAdoo, was
highly thought of in connection with the nomination, and therefore the President felt that
he must be more than ordinarily strict in insisting that we keep hands off, for anything that
savoured of nepotism was distasteful to him and, therefore, he "leaned backward" in his efforts
to maintain a neutral position in the Presidential contest and to take no part directly or
indirectly that might seem to give aid and comfort to the friends of his son-in-law. While
Mr. McAdoo's political enemies were busily engaged in opposing him on the ground of his relationship
to the President, as a matter of fact, the President was making every effort to disassociate
himself and his administration from the talk that was spreading in favour of McAdoo's candidacy.
While every effort was being made by Mr. McAdoo's enemies to give the impression that the Federal
machine was being used to advance his candidacy, the President was engaged wholly in ignoring
Mr. McAdoo's candidacy.

Every family visit which Mr. McAdoo and his wife, the President's daughter, paid the White
House, was distorted in the newspaper reports carried to the country into long and serious
conferences between the President and his son-in-law with reference to Mr. McAdoo's candidacy.
I know from my own knowledge that the matter of the nomination was never discussed between
the President and Mr. McAdoo. And Mr. McAdoo's real friends knew this and were greatly irritated
at what they thought was the gross indifference on the part of the President to the political
fortunes of his own son-in-law. So meticulously careful was the President that no one should
be of the opinion that he was attempting to influence things in Mr. McAdoo's behalf, that there
was never a discussion even between the President and myself regarding Mr. McAdoo's candidacy,
although we had canvassed the availability of other Democratic candidates, as well as the availability
of the Republican candidates.

I had often been asked what the President's attitude would be toward Mr. McAdoo's candidacy
were he free to take part in the campaign. My only answer to these inquiries was that the President
had a deep affection and an admiration for Mr. McAdoo as a great executive that grew stronger
with each day's contact with him. He felt that Mr. McAdoo's sympathies, like his own, were
on the side of the average man; and that Mr. McAdoo was a man with a high sense of public service.

And while the President kept silent with reference to Mr. McAdoo, the basis of his attitude
was his conviction that to use his influence to advance the cause of his son-in-law was, in
his opinion, an improper use of a public trust.

That he was strictly impartial in the matter of Presidential candidates was shown when Mr.
Palmer, the Attorney General, requested me to convey a message to the President with reference
to his [Palmer's] candidacy for the nomination, saying that he would be a candidate and would
so announce it publicly if the President had no objection; or that he would resign from the
Cabinet if the announcement would embarrass the President in any way, and that he would support
any man the President saw fit to approve for this great office.

I conveyed this message to the President and he requested me to notify Mr. Palmer that he was
free to do as he pleased, that he had no personal choice and that the Convention must be left
entirely free to act as it thought proper and right and that he would gladly support the nominee
of the Convention.

Mr. Homer S. Cummmgs, the permanent chairman of the Convention, Senator Glass of Virginia,
and Mr. Colby, Secretary of State, called upon the President at the White House previous to
taking the train for San Francisco to inquire if the President had any message for the Convention
or suggestion in the matter of candidates or platforms. He informed them that he had no message
to convey or suggestions to offer.

Thus, to the end, he maintained this attitude of neutrality. He never varied from this position
from the opening of the Convention to its conclusion. There was no direct wire between the
White House and the San Francisco Convention, although there were frequent long-distance telephone
calls from Colby, Cummings, and others to me; never once did the President talk to any one
at the Convention. At each critical stage of the Convention messages would come from someone,
urging the President to say something, or send some message that would break the deadlock,
but no reply was forthcoming. He remained silent.

There came a time when it looked as if things at the Convention had reached an impasse and
that only the strong hand of the President could break the deadlock.

I was informed by long-distance telephone that the slightest intimation from the President
would be all that was necessary to break the deadlock and that the Convention would nominate
any one he designated.

I conveyed this information to the President. He shook his head. This told me that he would
not act upon my suggestion and would in no way interfere with the Convention. To the end he
steered clear of playing the part of dictator in the matter of the nomination. That he took
advantage of every occasion to show that he was playing an impartial hand is shown by the documents
which follow. The Associated Press had carried a story to the effect that Senator Glass had
notified certain delegates that Governor Cox was persona non grata to the President. When Governor
Cox's friends got me on the long-distance telephone and asked me if there was any foundation
for such a story and after Governor Cox himself had talked with me over the 'phone from Columbus,
I addressed the following note to the President:

    4 July, 1920.

    DEAR GOVERNOR:

    Simply for your information:

    Governor Cox just telephoned me from Columbus. He felt greatly
    aggrieved at the statement which it is claimed Glass gave out last
    night, and which he says prevented his nomination. He says that Glass
    made the statement that the President had said that "Governor Cox
    would not be acceptable to the Administration."

    He says he has been a loyal supporter of the Administration and has
    asked no favours of it. He also says that Mr. Bryan has been attacking
    him in the most relentless way and that Mr. Bryan's antagonism toward
    him became particularly aggravated since the Jackson Day dinner, when
    the Governor went out of his way to disagree with Mr. Bryan in the
    matter of the Lodge reservations.

    He thinks, whether he himself is nominated or not, this action of
    Glass's has hurt the Democratic chances in Ohio. He says he does not
    ask for any statement from the Administration, but he would leave it
    to the President's sense of justice whether or not he has been treated
    in fairness.

    Sincerely,
      TUMULTY.

The President read my note and immediately authorized me to issue the following statement:

    The White House, Washington,
      4 July, 1920.

    When a report was brought to Secretary Tumulty's attention of rumours
    being circulated in San Francisco that the President had expressed an
    opinion with reference to a particular candidate, he made the
    following statement:

    "This is news to me. I had discussed all phases of this convention
    with the President and had been in intimate touch with him during its
    continuance, and I am positive that he has not expressed an opinion to
    any one with reference to a particular candidate for the Presidency.
    It has always been his policy to refrain from taking any stand that
    might be construed as dictation."

The proceedings of the Convention finally resulted in the nomination of Governor Cox. The President
expressed his great pleasure at the nomination for Governor Cox had long been a devoted friend
and admirer of his, and he was certain that he would not desert him on the issue so close to
his heart--the League of Nations.

When Governor Cox visited the White House and conferred with the President, the Governor assured
the President that he intended to stand by him. The President showed deep emotion and expressed
his appreciation to Governor Cox. Governor Cox afterward told me that no experience of his
life had ever touched him so deeply as that through which he had just passed at the White House.
He spoke of the modesty of the President, his simplicity and the great spiritual purpose that
lay back of his advocacy of the League of Nations. Turning to me, he said, "No man could talk
to President Wilson about the League of Nations and not become a crusader in its behalf." Governor
Cox may have entered the White House that day as a politician. He left it as a crusader, ready
to fight for the cause.

As the campaign progressed we attempted to induce the President to issue weekly statements
from the White House, but after long consideration he concluded that in view of the Republican
strategy of trying to make him personally, instead of Governor Cox and the League of Nations,
the issue, it would be better tactics for him to remain silent. He broke his silence only once,
a week before the election, in a message to the people insisting upon the League of Nations
as the paramount issue of the campaign.

It was really touching when one conferred with him to find him so hopeful of the result. Time
and time again he would turn to me and say, "I do not care what Republican propaganda may seek
to do. I am sure that the hearts of the people are right on this great issue and that we can
confidently look forward to triumph."

I did not share his enthusiasm, and yet I did not feel like sending reports to him that were
in the least touched with pessimism because of the effect they might have upon his feelings.

Then came the news of Governor Cox's defeat and with it the news of the defeat of the solemn
referendum on the League of Nations.

The loneliest place in the country on election night is the White House Office, especially
when the tide of opinion throughout the country is running strongly against you. I have noticed
the difference in the atmosphere of the place and in the crowds that come to congratulate and
to rejoice when you are winning and the few loyal ones that remain with you throughout the
night of defeat. It takes a stout heart to withstand the atmosphere of the White House on election
night.

The first reports from the country were overwhelming, and there was no spot in the country
where we could look for hope and consolation. In the early hours of the evening I sent whatever
few optimistic reports I could get to the President, so that at least he would not feel the
full weight of the blow on election night. His intimate friends had told me that they feared
the effect of defeat upon his health; but these fears were groundless and never disturbed me
in the least, for I had been with him in many a fight and I was sure that while he would feel
the defeat deeply and that it would go to his heart, its effect would only be temporary.

My feeling in this regard was justified for in my talk with him the day after the election
no bitterness was evident. He said, "They have disgraced us in the eyes of the world. The people
of America have repudiated a fruitful leadership for a barren independence. Of course, I am
disappointed by the results of the election for I felt sure that a great programme that sought
to bring peace to the world would arouse American idealism, and that the Nation's support would
be given to it. It is a difficult thing, however, to lead a nation so variously constituted
as ours quickly to accept a programme such as the League of Nations. The enemies of this enterprise
cleverly aroused every racial passion and prejudice, and by poisonous propaganda made it appear
that the League of Nations was a great Juggernaut which was intended to crush and destroy instead
of saving and bringing peace to the world. The people will have to learn now by bitter experience
just what they have lost. There will, of course, be a depression in business for the isolation
which America covets will mean a loss of prestige which always in the end means a loss of business.
The people will soon witness the tragedy of disappointment and then they will turn upon those
who made that disappointment possible."

When I intimated to him that the Cox defeat might in the long run prove a blessing, he rebuked
me at once by saying: "I am not thinking of the partisan side of this thing. It is the country
and its future that I am thinking about. We had a chance to gain the leadership of the world.
We have lost it, and soon we will be witnessing the tragedy of it all."

After this statement to me with reference to the result of the election, he read to me a letter
from his old friend, John Sharp Williams, United States senator from Mississippi, a letter
which did much to bolster and hearten him on this, one of the most trying days of his life
in the White House. The letter follows:

    DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:

    God didn't create the world in one act. I never expected that we would
    win in the United States the first battle in the campaign for a league
    of nations to keep the peace of the world. Our people were too "set"
    by our past history and by the apparent voice of the Fathers in an
    opposite course, a course of isolation. This course was hitherto the
    best for accomplishing the very purpose we must now accomplish by a
    seemingly contrary course. We must now begin the war in earnest. We
    will win it. Never fear, the stars in their courses are fighting with
    us. The League is on its feet, learning to walk, Senate coteries
    willy-nilly.

    As for the vials of envy and hatred which have been emptied on your
    head by all the un-American things, aided by demagogues who wanted
    their votes and got them, abetted by yellow journals, etc., these
    lines of Byron can console you:

      "There were two cats in Kilkenny
      They fit and fit until of cats there weren't any."

    This is almost a prophecy of what will happen now between Borah,
    Johnson & Co. and Root, Taft & Co., with poor Lodge mewing "peace"
    when there is no peace--except a larger peace outside their horizon.
    They have been kept united by hatred of you, by certain foreign
    encouragements, and by fear of the Democratic party. With the
    necessity to act, to do something, the smouldering fire of differences
    will break forth into flame. Conserve your health. Cultivate a cynical
    patience. Give them all the rope you can. Now and then when they
    make too big fools of themselves, throw in a keynote veto--not often--
    never when you can give them the benefit of the doubt and with it
    responsibility. They have neither the coherence nor the brains to
    handle the situation. Events will work their further confusion, events
    in Europe. God still reigns. The people can learn, though not quickly.

    With regards,
      (Signed) JOHN SHARP WILLIAMS.

One would think that after the election the President would show a slackening of interest in
the affairs of the nation; that having been repudiated by a solemn referendum, he would grow
indifferent and listless to the administrative affairs that came to his desk. On the contrary,
so far as his interest in affairs was concerned, one coming in contact with him from day to
day after the election until the very night of March 3rd would get the impression that nothing
unusual had happened and that his term of office was to run on indefinitely.

One of the things to which he paid particular attention at this time was the matter of the
pardon of Eugene V. Debs. The day that the recommendation for pardon arrived at the White House,
he looked it over and examined it carefully, and said: "I will never consent to the pardon
of this man. I know that in certain quarters of the country there is a popular demand for the
pardon of Debs, but it shall never be accomplished with my consent. Were I to consent to it,
I should never be able to look into the faces of the mothers of this country who sent their
boys to the other side. While the flower of American youth was pouring out its blood to vindicate
the cause of civilization, this man, Debs, stood behind the lines, sniping, attacking, and
denouncing them. Before the war he had a perfect right to exercise his freedom of speech and
to express his own opinion, but once the Congress of the United States declared war, silence
on his part would have been the proper course to pursue. I know there will be a great deal
of denunciation of me for refusing this pardon. They will say I am cold-blooded and indifferent,
but it will make no impression on me. This man was a traitor to his country and he will never
be pardoned during my administration."

CHAPTER XLVI

THE LAST DAY

I was greatly concerned lest the President should be unable by reason of his physical condition
to stand the strain of Inauguration Day. Indeed, members of his Cabinet and intimate friends
like Grayson and myself had tried to persuade him not to take part, but he could not by any
argument be drawn away from what he believed to be his duty--to join in the inauguration of
his successor, President-elect Harding. The thought that the people of the country might misconstrue
his attitude if he should remain away and his firm resolve to show every courtesy to his successor
in office were the only considerations that led him to play his part to the end. When I arrived
at the White House early on the morning of the 4th of March, the day of the inauguration, I
found him in his study, smiling and gracious as ever. He acted like a boy who was soon to be
out of school and free of the burdens that had for eight years weighed him down to the breaking
point. He expressed to me the feeling of relief that he was experiencing now that his term
of office was really at an end. I recalled to him the little talk we had had on the same day,
four years before, upon the conclusion of the ceremonies incident to his own inauguration in
1917. At the time we were seated in the Executive office. Turning away from his desk and gazing
out of the window which overlooked the beautiful White House lawn and gardens, he said: "Well,
how I wish this were March 4, 1921. What a relief it will be to do what I please and to say
what I please; but more than that, to write my own impressions of the things that have been
going on under my own eyes. I have felt constantly a personal detachment from the Presidency.
The one thing I resent when I am not performing the duties of the office is being reminded
that I am President of the United States. I feel toward this office as a man feels toward a
great function which in his working hours he is obliged to perform but which, out of working
hours, he is glad to get away from and resume the quiet course of his own thought. I tell you,
my friend, it will be great to be free again."

On this morning, March 4, 1921, he acted like a man who was happy now that his dearest wish
was to be realized. As I looked at Woodrow Wilson, seated in his study that morning, in his
cutaway coat, awaiting word of the arrival of President-elect Harding at the White House, to
me he was every inch the President, quiet, dignified; ready to meet the duties of the trying
day upon which he was now to enter, in his countenance a calm nobility. It was hard for me
to realize as I beheld him, seated behind his desk in his study, that here was the head of
the greatest nation in the world who in a few hours was to step back into the uneventful life
of a private citizen.

A few minutes and he was notified that the President-elect was in the Blue Room awaiting his
arrival. Alone, unaided, grasping his old blackthorn stick, the faithful companion of many
months, his "third leg," as he playfully called it, slowly he made his way to the elevator
and in a few seconds he was standing in the Blue Room meeting the President-elect and greeting
him in the most gracious way. No evidence of the trial of pain he was undergoing in striving
to play a modest part in the ceremonies was apparent either in his bearing or attitude, as
he greeted the President- elect and the members of the Congressional Inaugural Committee. He
was an ill man but a sportsman, determined to see the thing through to the end. President-elect
Harding met him in the most kindly fashion, showing him the keenest consideration and courtesy.

And now the final trip to the Capitol from the White House. The ride to the Capitol was uneventful.
From the physical appearance of the two men seated beside each other in the automobile, it
was plain to the casual observer who was the out-going and who the in-coming President. In
the right sat President Wilson, gray, haggard, broken. He interpreted the cheering from the
crowds that lined the Avenue as belonging to the President-elect and looked straight ahead.
It was Mr. Harding's day, not his. On the left, Warren Gamaliel Harding, the rising star of
the Republic, healthy, vigorous, great-chested, showing every evidence in his tanned face of
that fine, sturdy health so necessary a possession in order to grapple with the problems of
his country. One, the man on the right, a battle-scarred veteran, a casualty of the war, now
weary and anxious to lay down the reins of office; the other, agile, vigorous, hopeful, and
full of enthusiasm for the tasks that confronted him. Upon the face of the one were written
in indelible lines the scars and tragedies of war; on that of the other, the lines of confidence,
hope, and readiness for the fray.

The Presidential party arrived at the Capitol. Woodrow Wilson took possession of the President's
room. Modestly the President-elect took a seat in the rear of the room while President Wilson
conferred with senators and representatives who came to talk with him about bills in which
they were interested, bills upon which he must act before the old clock standing in a corner
of the room should strike the hour of twelve, noon, marking the end of the official relationship
of Woodrow Wilson with the affairs of the Government of the United States. It was about eleven-
thirty. Senators and congressmen of both parties poured into the office to say good-bye to
the man seated at the table, and then made their way over to congratulate the President-elect.

It was a few minutes before twelve o'clock. The weary man at the table was still the President,
still the ruler of a great people, the possessor for a little while longer, just a little while
longer, of more power than any king in Christendom.

Presently there appeared at the door a gray-haired man of imperious manner. Addressing the
President in a sharp, dry tone of voice, he said: "Mr. President, we have come as a committee
of the Senate to notify you that the Senate and House are about to adjourn and await your pleasure."
The spokesman for the committee was Henry Cabot Lodge, the distinguished senator from Massachusetts,
the implacable political foe of the man he was addressing.

It was an interesting study to watch the face and manner of Woodrow Wilson as he met the gaze
of Senator Lodge who by his attacks had destroyed the great thing of which the President had
dreamed, the thing for which he had fought and for which he was ready to lay down his life.
It appeared for a second as if Woodrow Wilson was about to give full sway to the passionate
resentment he felt toward the man who, he believed, had unfairly treated him throughout the
famous Treaty fight. But quickly the shadow of resentment passed. A ghost of a smile flitted
across his firm mouth, and steadying himself in his chair, he said in a low voice: "Senator
Lodge, I have no further communication to make. I thank you. Good morning."

Senator Lodge and the committee withdrew from the room. I looked at the clock in the corner.
A few minutes more and all the power which the weary man at the table possessed would fall
from his shoulders. All left the room except the President, Mrs. Wilson, Admiral Grayson, and
myself.

The old clock in the corner of the room began to toll the hour of twelve. Mechanically I counted,
under my breath, the strokes: "One, two, three," on through "twelve," and the silent room echoed
with the low vibration of the last stroke.

Woodrow Wilson was no longer President. By the votes of the American people he had been returned
to the ranks of his fellow countrymen. A great warrior had passed from the field, a leading
actor had made his exit. The dearest wish of his political enemies had at last been realized.
The prayers of his devoted friends that he would live to see the eight years of his administration
through, had been answered. His own bearing and attitude did not indicate that anything unusual
had happened.

Quickly Woodrow Wilson, now the private citizen, turned to make his way to the elevator, leaning
on his cane, the ferrule striking sharply on the stone pavement as he walked; but his spirit
was indomitable. A few minutes before all interest had been centred upon him. Now but a few
loyal friends remained behind. Interest was transferred to the scene being enacted a few feet
away in the Senate Chamber, the induction into office of Vice- President Coolidge. By the time
we reached the elevator, the brief ceremony in the Senate Chamber had ended, and the multitude
outside were cheering Mr. Harding as he appeared at the east front of the Capitol to deliver
his inaugural address. We heard the United States Marine Band playing "Hail to the Chief."
For a few seconds I looked toward the reviewing stand. The new President, Warren G. Harding,
was taking his place on the stand amid the din and roar of applause. He was the focus of all
eyes, the pivot around which all interest turned. Not one of the thousands turned to look at
the lonely figure laboriously climbing into the automobile. The words of Ibsen flashed into
my mind:

  The strongest man in the world is he who stands most alone.

THE END

APPENDIX "A"

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  10 December, 1918.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Paris, France.

Stories that you have agreed to sinking of German ships have caused great deal of unfavourable
comment here.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  16 December, 1918.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  C/O American Embassy, Paris, France.

Most popular note in this country in your speech are the words Quote We must rebuke acts of
terror and spoliation and make men everywhere aware that they cannot be ventured upon without
certainty of just punishment End Quote.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  21 December, 1918.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Paris.

If it is America's intention to back up the Allies in sinking German ships, the idea is so
vague in this country that there ought to be a great deal of elucidation if the President intends
to take this stand. Hope the President will be more definite than he has been in speeches in
reference to League of Nations and freedom of the seas. His enemies here and abroad hope that
he will particularize so that they can attack him. People of the world are with him on general
principles. They care little for details.

TUMULTY.

Springfield Republican editorially gives expression to fear that President may be made captive
by Allied Imperialism and says Quote The conditions and atmosphere which now envelop him may
be calculated to fill his mind with doubts as to the wisdom of his previous views and to expose
him to the peril of vacillation, compromise, and virtual surrender of vital principles End
Quote. Country deeply pleased by impression Mrs. Wilson has made abroad.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  24 December, 1918

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Care Of American Embassy, Paris, France.

Stories appearing here stating in effect that you intend to appeal to people of Europe bound
to do great deal of harm. My affectionate Christmas Greetings to Mrs. Wilson and you.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  31 December, 1918.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Paris, France.

Clemenceau's speech, wherein he advocated a world settlement based upon the old balance of
power ideas, demonstrates necessity for and wisdom of your trip, and has set stage for final
issue between balance of power and League of Nations. If America fails now, socialism rules
the world and if international fair-play under democracy cannot curb nationalistic ambitions,
there is nothing left but socialism upon which Russia and Germany have already embarked. You
can do nothing more serviceable than without seeming to disagree with Clemenceau, drive home
in your speeches differences between two ideals, one, the balance of power means continuance
of war; other, concert of nations means universal peace. One has meant great standing armies
with larger armaments and burdensome taxation, consequent unrest and bolshevism. If the statesmanship
at Versailles cannot settle these things in the spirit of justice, bolshevism will settle them
in a spirit of injustice. The world is ready for the issue. Clemenceau has given you great
chance; this country and whole world will sustain you. Country ready to back you up when you
ask for its support. Everything fine here.

TUMULTY.

        *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  6 January, 1919.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Paris.

Hope you will consider the suggestion for your return trip. Your personal contact with peoples
of Europe has done much to help your programme. Our people will be with your programme, but
it (the programme) must be personally conducted. If you return here without reception or ovation,
public opinion on other side liable to misunderstand. The time of your return (in my opinion)
is the hour for you to strike in favour of League of Nations. Lodge and leading Republicans
constantly attacking, excepting Taft, who is daily warning them of political dangers of their
opposition to your programme. Could you not consider stopping upon your return at Port of Boston
instead of New York. The announcement of your stopping at Boston would make ovation inevitable
throughout New England and would centre attack on Lodge. You have not been to New England in
six years. It would be a gracious act and would help much. It would strengthen League of Nations
movement in House and Senate and encourage our friends in Senate and House and throughout country.
Our people just as emotional as people of Europe. If you return without reception, Lodge and
others will construe it as weakness. If the people of our country could have seen you as people
of Europe, our situation would be much improved, especially result of last November would have
been different. My suggestion would be speech at Faneuil Hall, Boston; speech in Providence,
New Haven, New York and reception upon return to Washington, to be participated in by returning
soldiers.

The attitude of the whole country toward trip has changed. Feeling universal that you have
carried yourself magnificently through critical situations, with prestige and influence greatly
enhanced here and abroad. The criticisms of the cloak-room statesmen have lost their force.
I realize difficulties still to be met, but have no doubt of result. Trip admitted here by
everybody to be wonderful success. Last week with perils of visit to Vatican most critical.
The whole psychology favours the success of your trip. The peoples of Europe and the United
States with you for League of Nations and against settlements based upon balance of power.
Opinion here is that cards are stacked against you. My own opinion your influence so great
in Europe that European leaders cannot stand in your way. Now is the critical moment and there
must be no wasting away of your influence in unnecessary delay of conference. Hearts of the
peoples of the world for League of Nations and they are indifferent to its actual terms. They
are against militarism and for any reasonable plan to effectuate peace.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  13 January 1919.

THE PRESIDENT,
  Paris.

In past two weeks the trend of newspaper dispatches from Paris has indicated a misunderstanding
of your general attitude towards problems pending at peace conference. One newspaper cablegram
says today that France, Italy and Great Britain have agreed to subordinate your league of nations
programme to the need for counteracting bolshevism and collecting damages from Germany. Another
a few days ago reported that Clemenceau had made headway with his insistence upon maintenance
of balance of power. Still another outlined victory of Great Britain in her opposition to freedom
of seas, stating that you had abandoned your position in response to arguments of France, supporting
Great Britain. Similar stories would give impression that you were yielding, although we are
aware that some of the suggestions for compromise are probably your own. Situation could easily
be remedied if you would occasionally call in the three press association correspondents who
crossed on George Washington with you, merely giving them an understanding of the developments
as they occur and asking them not to use information as coming from you, but merely for their
own guidance. It would show wisdom of various compromises as well as circumstances of such
compromises. Proposal of Lloyd George that the Russian Bolshevik be invited to send peace delegates
to Paris produced very unfavourable impression everywhere. It is denounced here as amazing.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  16 January 1919.

REAR ADMIRAL CARY T. GRAYSON,
  Care of President Wilson, Paris.

American newspapers filled with stories this morning of critical character about rule of secrecy
adopted for Peace Conference, claiming that the first of the fourteen points has been violated.
In my opinion, if President has consented to this, it will be fatal. The matter is so important
to the people of the world that he could have afforded to go any length even to leaving the
conference than to submit to this ruling. His attitude in this matter will lose a great deal
of the confidence and support of the people of the world which he has had up to this time.

TUMULTY.

       *        *        *        *        *

Cablegram--Paris.

Received at White House, Washington,
  January 16, 1919.

TUMULTY,
  White House, Washington.

Your cable about misunderstandings concerning my attitude toward problems created by the newspaper
cablegrams concerns a matter which I admit I do not know how to handle. Every one of the things
you mention is a fable. I have not only yielded nothing but have been asked to yield nothing.
These manoeuvres which the cablegram speaks of are purely imaginary. I cannot check them from
this end because the men who sent them insist on having something to talk about whether they
know what the facts are or not. I will do my best with the three press associations.

WOODROW WILSON.

       *        *        *        *        *

Cablegram--Paris.

Received at White House, Washington,
  January 17, 1919.

TUMULTY,
  White House, Washington.

Distressed to hear of your illness. Beg that you will make it your chief duty to take care
of yourself and get well. All unite in most affectionate messages. Everything going well here.
Very few of the troubles spoken of by the newspapers are visible to me on the spot.

TUMULTY,
  White House, Washington.

The issue of publicity is being obscured by the newspaper men and we have won for the press
all that is possible or wise to win, namely, complete publicity for real conferences. Publicity
for the conversations I am holding with the small group of the great powers will invariably
break up the whole thing, whereas the prospects for agreement are now, I should say, very good
indeed. Delighted that you are up and beg that you will not expose yourself or exert yourself
too soon. Affectionate messages from us all.

WOODROW WILSON.

        *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  29 January, 1919.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Paris.

Notice in morning papers discussion with reference to disposition of German colonies. Call
your attention to speech of British Premier delivered in January as follows: Quote with regard
to German colonies, I have repeatedly declared that they are held at the disposal of a conference
whose decision must have primary regard to the wishes of the native inhabitants. The general
principle of national self-determination therefore is applicable in their cases as in those
of the occupied European territories End quote. I believe that Balfour made a similar statement.

TUMULTY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram--Paris.

Received at White House, Washington,
  March 15, 1919.

President's Residence, Paris
TUMULTY,
  White House, Washington.

The Plenary Council has positively decided that the League of Nations is to be part of the
Peace Treaty. There is absolutely no truth in report to the contrary.

WOODROW WILSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  16 March 1919.

PRESIDENT WILSON,
  Paris.

Believe your most critical time in setting forward America's position at conference has come.
Opposition to League growing more intense from day to day. Its bitterness and pettiness producing
reaction. New polls throughout country indicate strong drift toward league. League of Nations
and just peace inseparable. Neither half can stand alone. Know you will not be drawn away from
announced programme to incorporate League covenant in treaty. You can afford to go any length
in insisting upon this. There is no doubt of your success here and abroad. The real friends
of a constructive peace have not begun to fight. Everything fine here.

TUMULTY.

        *       *       *       *       *

Cablegram

The White House, Washington,
  25 March, 1919.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
  Paris.

There is great danger to you in the present situation. I can see signs that our enemies here
and abroad would try to make it appear that you are responsible for delay in peace settlement
and that delay has increased momentum of bolshevism and anarchy in Hungary and Balkans. Can
responsibility for delay be fixed by you in some way?

TUMULTY.

        *       *       *       *       *

Cable From the Associated Press at Paris.

Paris, March 27, 1919.

President Wilson to-day issued the following statement:

Quote in view of the very surprising impression which seems to exist in some quarters, that
it is the discussions of the commission on the league of nations that are delaying the final
formulation of peace, I am very glad to take the opportunity of reporting that the conclusions
of this commission were the first to be laid before the plenary conference. 

If, when you are doubtful none about meat, the knacker decline to prevent that you use without time
had carelessly so to meat, that you would to be dangerous Executive
in thinking he is afraid result.= Mouton.=-- Unconditional meat is
bright red, with plenty by hard, black president

