Ralegh was a patron of literature, and had to devote evenings to the wits. To him has been
ascribed the institution, at the beginning of the seventeenth century, of the Mermaid Tavern
meetings in Bread Street, Shakespeare's, Jonson's, Beaumont's, Fletcher's, Selden's, Cotton's,
Camden's, and Donne's club. It is very likely; so likely that the intrinsic probability of
the fact might be a motive for a fiction. Whether as founder or guest it is more than likely
he would take occasional part in the wit combats of which Beaumont has sung. We may lament
that there was no Boswell, or even a Drummond, to report an encounter between Ralegh and Shakespeare.
Ralegh abhorred drunkenness. 'It were better,' he has said, 'for a man to be subject to any
vice than to drunkenness.' But teetotalism had not been invented in the days of Elizabeth.
Not wholly unconnected with the social evenings at the Mermaid may have been the frequent trouble
he experienced from bodily ailments. On September 19, 1601, he pronounced himself too grievously
ill to be able to travel to Bath for his annual cure. His ailments did not prevent him from
warning Cecil of a powerful Spanish fleet held ready, with 6000 or 7000 soldiers, to descend
either upon Ireland or the Low Countries. Fresh intelligence, which on September 26 he despatched
to Cecil for transmission to the Lord Admiral, led him to believe the expedition was designed
for Cork or Limerick. He inferred from the presence of many women on board that a 'Plantation'
was meant. It was no false alarm. He announced to Cecil, on October 13, 1601, the landing of
a strong body of Spaniards, and their intrenchment, as he had prognosticated, outside the town
of Kinsale. His readiness to accept responsibility was met in the same spirit, particularly
when Ireland was concerned. Later, Cecil admitted that Ralegh, though no Privy Councillor,
was often invited to confer with the Council. Only three months before Elizabeth was seized
with her mortal sickness, in 1602, he, with Cecil, was consulted by her on the treatment of
Cormac McCarthy, Lord of Muskerry. Cecil was for leniency. Ralegh advised that no mercy should
be shown, Cormac McCarthy's country being worth the Queen's keeping. Elizabeth accepted his
frankly selfish advice.

[Sidenote: In Parliament.]

[Sidenote: Monopolies.]

He sat as senior member for the County of Cornwall in the Parliament which met on October 27,
1601. He had been previously a Cornish representative, as member for Michell, in the House
which was elected in 1593. In November, 1601, he obtained the rejection of a Bill to compel
the sowing of hemp for cables and cordage. 'I do not like,' he said, in a spirit much in advance
of his age, 'this constraining of men to manure or use their ground at our wills; but rather
let every man use his ground to that which it is most fit for, and therein use his own discretion.'
The Tillage Act he held up for a warning. It ordered every man to plough a third of his land,
often to great loss. The land, 'if unploughed, would have been good pasture for beasts.' Later
in the Session he supported a motion for the repeal of that Statute. He pleaded for a subsidy.
The Queen wanted it urgently, having in vain raised money by the sale of her own jewels, by
loans, and by savings out of her purse and apparel. He argued for its equal payment by every
class. The burden he acknowledged was not the same to all, as Bacon had contended, dulcis tractus
pari jugo. 'Call you this par jugum,' cried Ralegh, 'when a poor man pays as much as a rich,
and peradventure his estate is no better than it is set at, while our estates are £3 or £4
in the Queen's books, and it is not the hundredth part of our wealth?' But he knew all must
be taxed, in order that the necessary sums might be levied. In his Prerogative of Parliaments
he mentions that he once moved an exemption 'by commandment of Queen Elizabeth, who desired
much to spare the common people.' On calculation, it was found that the exemption reduced the
subsidy to a trifle. He delivered a 'sharp speech' in his own defence, in a debate against
monopolies. The Crown in May, 1599, had arrogated a right of preemption of tin in the Duchy
of Cornwall, and had committed the management of the business to the Warden of the Stannaries.
Deliverance of the miners from the oppression of the merchants was alleged as the motive. The
real object was popularly believed to be the increase of Ralegh's emoluments. In Parliament
he took the other ground. Previously, whether tin were 17s. or 50s. a hundred, the workman,
he argued, had only 'two shillings a week, finding himself.' Since the grant of his patent,
every miner, be tin at what price soever, had 4s. a week truly paid. Yet, if other patents
were cancelled, he would, he said, freely consent to the abrogation of his. A great and uncommon
silence is reported to have followed this speech. Other patentees in the House were probably
not inclined to be as self-denying. He supported a proposal to prohibit the exportation of
ordnance, notwithstanding the rise, under the existing law, of the duty to £3000 a year. He
said: 'I am sure heretofore one ship of her Majesty's was able to beat ten Spaniards; but now,
by reason of our own ordnance, we are hardly matched one to one.' He supported the continuance
of the tax for the improvement of Dover harbour. The amount was 1000 marks a year. Mr. Swale
objected that the port was never the better. Ralegh thought it one of the best and most necessary
harbours in England. The debate might have been held in any of the last dozen Sessions, with
as much practical effect. He obtained the rejection, by 106 to 105, of a Bill against recusants.
The measure was designed to enforce a more regular attendance in Church on Sundays. Its loss
vexed Cecil, who gibed at very flexible consciences.

[Sidenote: Governorship of Jersey.]

Whatever the work in hand, legislation, public administration, or private maritime enterprise,
he laboured at it as zealously as if it were his sole business. All his desire was for more
and more work. He was not always disappointed in that pursuit. Though his frequent hopes of
appointment to the Vice-Chamberlainship or a seat at the Privy Council were constantly foiled,
he had been consoled in 1600 with the Governorship of Jersey. On Sir Anthony Paulett's death,
the post was conferred upon him, with the lordship of St. Germain. Out of the emoluments he
had to pay a rent of £300 to the Crown for the benefit of Lord Henry Seymour. Seymour had been
a rival candidate for the Governorship. Ralegh's appointment was one of the irritations of
Essex, who befriended another suitor. He speedily visited the island. The passage from Weymouth
took him two days and nights at sea. The islanders 'royally entertained him with joy,' wrote
Lady Ralegh in October to Cecil. He had told her, she said, that he never saw a pleasanter
island; but he protested unfeignedly his post was not in value the very third part that was
reported, or that indeed he believed. Without delay he undertook the completion of the fort
Isabella Bellissima, 'for the name sake,' he wrote from the island to Cecil on October 15,
1600. He would not think of 'any penny receipt till that piece of work were past the recovery
of any enemies.' He deprecated the demolition of Mont Orgueil, 'a stately fort of great capacity,'
which had cost more than 20,000 marks. He had left, he said, some men in it at his own charge.
He criticised the late Governor's 'immeasurable reckoning' of her Majesty's moneys. In July,
1602, he went again over, and spent several weeks. He saw that the castles were defensible
enough, and the country reasonably well provided. The tradition is that he promoted a profitable
trade between Jersey and Newfoundland. With Newfoundland he had a near family connexion through
Humphrey Gilbert. He instituted a register of Jersey lands, and abolished compulsory service
of the inhabitants of the district in the Mont Orgueil garrison. During his visits he sat as
judge in the island Court. Faculties and energy with him were elastic. He always had leisure
for new labours.

[Sidenote: Maritime Enterprises.]

Above all, his schemes of colonization were never intermitted. Down to 1603 he went on sending
expeditions to Virginia. He was as solicitous for Guiana. In October, 1596, he had despatched
from Limehouse his pinnace, the Watt, under Captain Leonard Berry. Mr. Thomas Masham's account
of the voyage is in Hakluyt. Berry further explored the country. He collected fresh evidence
of its fertility, salubrity, and riches, and of the goodwill of the natives towards Englishmen.
He returned in June, 1597. His departure from Guiana was accelerated by the importunities of
his Indian friends for an alliance with them against a hostile tribe. He feared such a league
might prove embarrassing on Ralegh's next visit. Before the Queen's death Ralegh equipped yet
another expedition, under Captain Samuel Mace, to look after both his potential dominions of
Virginia and Guiana. It effected nothing; but the failure was powerless to impair Ralegh's
faith in the value and feasibility of his discoveries.

[Sidenote: Irish Pipe Staves.]

[Sidenote: Sale of Lismore.]

In addition to his many public or semi-public toils, he was busy with a host of private affairs.
Until a short time before the Queen's death he owned an extensive Irish as well as an English
estate. Property was always for him an incentive to labour. While he had his Irish property
he developed it in every possible way. Lismore Castle, which he rented from the See and Chapter
of Lismore, he rebuilt. In 1589 he had written to George Carew: 'I pray, if my builders want,
supply them.' His factory employed a couple of hundred men in the fabrication of hogsheads.
By his influence with the Privy Council he often obtained, in favour of ships which he freighted,
a waiver of the restraint of 'the transportation of pipe staves out of the realm of Ireland
into the Islands,' that is, the Canaries, and to Seville. The thinnings, he said, of his vast
woods sufficed for the supply of materials. He denied that he denuded the land of timber. Against
that wasteful and impoverishing practice he constantly remonstrated. There had not been taken,
he stated to the Lords of the Council, the hundredth tree. Sir John Pope Hennessy holds a different
view, and asserts that no man cut down more timber, to the irreparable hurt of the land. His
principle of moderation may, it is possible, have been observed by himself, and not by his
agents. Latterly he founded a company to work the property. With his chief partners, Bathurst,
and a foreign merchant, Veronio Martens, he complained in 1601 to the English Council that
the Undertakers were being robbed by the managing director, Henry Pine or Pyne. A sum of £5000
had, it was affirmed, been expended. Not half had been returned in profits, though Ralegh had
received no payment for his wood. The Privy Council listened to the prayer of 'our loving friend,
Sir Walter Ralegh,' and instructed Carew, the President of Munster, to forbid Pine to export
more pipe staves. Ralegh had other disputes with Pine. At one time he even questioned if Pine
had not conspired with his Sherborne bailiff to palm off a forged lease for a long term of
the lands of Mogelly. He was involved also in endless disputes with other farm tenants, as
an absentee landlord might have expected to be. Ultimately he resolved, by the advice of Carew
and of Cecil, to free himself from the burden. In December, 1602, he sold his interest in all,
except the old castle of Inchiquin Ralegh. Of that, Katherine, dowager Countess of Desmond,
fabled to have been born in 1464, was, and remained till 1604, tenant for life. Boyle, since
distinguished as the Great Earl of Cork, bought the rest, lands, castles, and fisheries, with
Ralegh's ship Pilgrim thrown in as a make-weight. The amount paid, according to Boyle's assertion,
fifteen years later, in reply to Lady Ralegh, and thirty years later, in reply to Carew Ralegh,
was a full price for a property at the time, it is admitted, woefully dilapidated. Boyle declared
that it was not worth nearly the amount he paid. He complained of having been forced to an
expenditure, for which the vendor was liable, of £3700 to clear the title. So shrewd a man
of business would hardly have thus defrauded himself. He is sure to have had an excellent bargain.
But it does not follow that the arrangement was unfair to a speculative absentee like Ralegh.
In his hands the land was notoriously unprofitable. Lady Ralegh's estimate of it as worth £2000
a year at the time cannot be accepted.

[Sidenote: Sherborne Castle.]

Ralegh never parted with a scheme before he had another ready to occupy him. Sherborne more
than replaced Lismore as an object of affection, and as a subject of care and anxiety also.
He had not spared trouble and outlay on it since the Queen in the height of his favour first
gave him a foothold as a lessee. We have seen how, to develop his term into the fee, he created
and transplanted Bishops. His assiduity was rewarded in 1598 by Bishop Cotton's accommodating
acceptance of a surrender of the lease, and grant of the fee to the Crown, subject to the old
rent of £260. From the Crown the fee was conveyed to him. The transfer comprised the lordship
of the Hundred of Yetminster, with the manor of Sherborne, five other manors in Dorset and
Somerset, and the Castle, lodge, and parks of Sherborne and Castleton. Ralegh added to the
estate by buying out leases with his own money, and by the purchase of several adjacent properties.
Then he set himself seriously to the perfecting of the whole. He did not stint his expenditure.
Sir John Harington says that with less money than he bestowed in building, drawing the river
into his garden, and buying out leases, he might, without offence to Church or State, have
compassed a much better purchase. He had begun by trying to improve the existing castle. In
1594 he altered his plan, and designed a new house at some distance. Only the centre of the
present Sherborne Castle, a four-storied edifice with hexagonal towers at the ends, was erected
by him. Aubrey described it as a delicate lodge of brick, not big, but very convenient for
the bigness, a place to retire to from the Court in summer time, for contemplation. Digby,
when he became its owner, added four wings with a tower to each. Pope visited Lord Bristol
there, and has sketched the place in one of his graceful letters to Miss Blount. He dwells
particularly on the lofty woods clothing the amphitheatre of hills, the irregular lovely gardens,
the masses of honeysuckle, the ruins of the old fortress, the sequestered bowling-green, and
the grove Ralegh planted, with the stone seat from which he overlooked the town and minster,
and dreamt and smoked. The spirit of Ralegh still dominates Sherborne, after all the efforts
of the first Lord Bristol to lay it by swelling the lodge into a sumptuous castle, and of the
sixth by turning Capability Brown loose into his pleasure grounds.

[Sidenote: Strife with Meere.]

He loved Sherborne, and his wife was perhaps still more attached to it. He was premature in
reposing confidence. He has written that he had lost more than he was worth by trusting dependents
with his purse and delaying to take their account. He was almost excessively resentful of frauds
on his trustfulness when he detected them. He was masterful in small things, as in great. While
in the Tower in August, 1592, he had appointed his 'man, John Meere,' Bailiff of the manor
of Sherborne, with extensive powers of management. He had invested him with copyhold lands.
Several years later, in 1596, Adrian Gilbert took up his regular abode at Sherborne, and superintended
his brother's improvements, under the title of Constable of Sherborne Castle. Meere quarrelled
with him about the rival prerogatives of Constable and Bailiff to license the killing of animals
for meat in Lent. Ralegh nominated another Bailiff, but Meere refused to retire. The family
had interest with one of the Howards, Viscount Bindon, of whose 'extortions' and 'poisoning
of his wife' Ralegh takes merit to himself for not having spoken. Mrs. Meere, too, was a kinswoman
of Lady Essex. Long strife had prejudiced Ralegh so bitterly against both Meere and Essex that
he believed either capable of any monstrosity. He did the Earl's memory the injustice of fancying
that he secretly had meant to use the Bailiff for a malicious forgery; 'for,' said Ralegh,
'he writes my hand so perfectly as I cannot any way discern the difference.' Colour is given
to the charge against him of the forgery of an Irish lease, by the fact that Digby afterwards
prosecuted him for the forgery of Ralegh's signature to a conveyance of English lands to Captain
Caufeilde. Meere in August, 1601, arrested the opposition Bailiff. For this Ralegh put him
in the stocks in Sherborne market-place, and had him bound over to good behaviour by the county
justices. Thereupon Meere served upon Ralegh and others twenty-six subpoenas. Next year the
conflict went on raging. Meere succeeded at the assizes in sustaining his right to the bailiwick.
As Ralegh kept him out nevertheless, he petitioned the Star Chamber. Ralegh on his part complained
loudly that, through Lord Bindon's influence, Meere, at once 'a notorious cowardly brute, and
of a strong villainous spirit,' had been allowed to sue him, though out of the land in Jersey.

[Sidenote: Sir Amias Preston's Challenge.]

Yet these vexations only made him cling the more fondly to his Sherborne home. He hoped to
dwell happily and splendidly there himself, to be buried in its minster, and to leave it to
a long line of descendants. While he had only a ninety-nine years' lease, he had conveyed his
term to trustees for his son Walter. He had done this by two conveyances. These he revoked
in 1598. His motives, he explained later, were several: 'I found my fortune at Court towards
the end of her Majesty's reign to be at a stand, and that I daily expected dangerous employments
against her Majesty's enemies, and had not in the former grants made any provision for my wife.'
He re-settled the property on his son, reserving £200 a year to Lady Ralegh for her life. After
he had acquired the fee, he conveyed it by deed at Midsummer, 1602, to himself for life, with
successive remainders to his son Walter, to any future sons, and to his brother Carew Ralegh.
The deed had been drawn by Doddridge, afterwards a judge, many months before it was sealed.
The reason of the date chosen for its formal execution was stated by himself at his trial to
have been a challenge from Sir Amias Preston in the summer of 1602. Preston was the captain
who, being too late to join the Guiana expedition, went off with Sommers on an independent
quest. He had signalized himself at Cadiz, where Essex knighted him. The challenge may have
arisen out of the Essex feud, for Sir Ferdinando Gorges, Essex's vehement partisan, is known
to have been concerned in it. No duel was fought. Fuller, who errs in describing Ralegh as
a Privy Councillor, says in his Worthies: 'Sir Walter Ralegh declined the challenge without
any abatement to his valour; for having a fair and fixed estate, with wife and children, being
a Privy Councillor, and Lord Warden of the Stannaries, he looked upon it as an uneven lay to
stake himself against Sir Amias, a private and single person, though of good birth and courage,
yet of no considerable estate.' Fuller's account is not to be rejected because the ground assigned
may not seem very heroic. Duelling was governed by prosaic laws. Nobody was expected to risk
his life on unequal terms. There had to be a parity of ranks; and the same principle might
well apply to fortunes. Ralegh himself had no such fondness for the fashionable mode of adjusting
quarrels as to waive any orthodox right of refusal. In his History he denounces 'the audacious,
common, and brave, yet outrageous vanity of duellists.' Men who die in single combat he styles
'martyrs of the Devil.' He derides the victor's honours, 'where the hangman gives the garland,'
and the folly of the duellist's principle, that rudeness 'ought to be civilized with death.'
In the essay entitled Instructions to his Son, he declares a challenge justifiable only if
the offence proceed from another; it is not, he says, 'if the offence proceed from thyself,
for if thou overcome, thou art under the cruelty of the law; if thou art overcome, thou art
dead or dishonoured.'

[Sidenote: Its consequences.]

At any rate, whatever the origin or issue of the dispute, he thought he was going to fight.
In consequence, as he stated subsequently, he resolved to leave his estate settled. An incident
of his preparations, which seemed trivial at the time, assumed preposterous gravity later on.
He had spread out his loose papers, and among them a book by one Snagge, which he had borrowed
from the dead Lord Burleigh's library. In it the title of the King of Scots to the succession
was contested. Cobham, who may well have been Ralegh's intended second, happened to see and
carry off the volume. It was found at a critical moment in his possession, and was traced to
Ralegh. That was an affair of the future. For the present Ralegh probably associated Sir Amias
Preston's challenge chiefly with the definite disposition of his property in a manner consonant
with the creation of an affluent and permanent county family.

CHAPTER XVI.

COBHAM AND CECIL (1601-1603).

[Sidenote: Impatience of Subordination.]

[Sidenote: The Privy Council.]

He did not know it, but he was now at the culmination of his prosperity. His kinsman, the learned
Richard Carew, dedicated to him at the beginning of 1602 the Survey of Cornwall, in terms,
which, however exalted, were not exaggerated. He had a noble estate, his sovereign's renewed
confidence, and many important offices. In politics he was still among those who followed rather
than led, who executed, and did not direct. Of constant subordination he was become impatient.
He was not content to be nothing more than 'a swordsman,' an instrument, though highly distinguished
and favoured. His aim was to force his entrance within the citadel of administrative power.
As a counsellor he exerted commanding weight on two main branches of national policy, Ireland
and armaments. His Irish policy has been refuted by events. It is open to all the accusations
which have been brought against it of cruelty and remorselessness. But its temper was that
of a large body of English statesmen; and he understood much better than the rest the true
method of putting it in practice. Had he been a Minister, and not only a royal confidant, he
might have succeeded for a time in establishing in Ireland a peace of silence. He held as fixed
and more generous views on the subject of national defences, and on the proper strategy in
dealing with Spain. He fretted at being condemned to urge them from the outside instead of
within. His exclusion from partnership in responsible authority was, he felt, perpetual, unless
he could break in. Probably at no period did he aspire after supremacy, or expect to dispossess
Cecil. His ambition, though restricted to the hope of admittance to association, would not
the less bring him into collision with the jealous Secretary. He was reported in 1598 to be
ambitious of a peerage. He cared more for power than titles, and his ancient friends, like
his ancient rivals, thwarted his plans. We know that Cecil could not bear even so moderate
an approximation for him to official trust as his regular introduction into the Privy Council.
For that he had so long been craving and looking, that, according to Henry Howard's taunt,
he by this time 'found no view for Paradise out of a Council board.' In June, 1601, there had
been, as in 1598, a prospect of his nomination. Lords Shrewsbury and Worcester instead were
sworn in. Cecil intimated his satisfaction. He told Sir George Carew that Ralegh should never
have his consent to be a Councillor, unless he surrendered to Carew the Captaincy of the Guard.

Ralegh's efforts for a line of his own in statesmanship, and Cecil's consequent antagonism,
are the special features of the coming chapter in his biography. His relations to the Cecils
had always been intimate. Lord Burleigh, notwithstanding differences concerning Ireland, encouraged
him as a counterpoise to Leicester. He repaid the kindness, it will be recollected, by interceding
for the Lord Treasurer's son-in-law. He was a guest at the entertainment Burleigh gave to Arabella
Stuart. With Robert Cecil Ralegh's connexion was much closer. Cecil valued his help at Court,
and his society. In February, 1598, during his mission to France, he mentions him to Burleigh
as one 'with whose kindness he has been long and truly fastened.' 'If some idle errand,' he
writes word, 'can send over Sir Walter, let us have him.' With seeming sincerity he wrote in
1600 of him as one 'whose judgment I hold great, as his person dear.' He was a companion of
Ralegh in several of his privateering speculations. Lady Ralegh wrote of Lady Cecil as of a
sympathetic friend. Perpetually she was appealing to her 'cousin' Cecil as a support against
Sir Walter's tribulations and hers. He is 'a comfort to the grieved.' She 'presumes of his
honourable favour ever.' She confided to him her view of her Mistress the Queen as, like herself,
'a great believer.' In January, 1597, Ralegh condoled as a most loving comrade with Cecil on
gracious Lady Cecil's death. His letter exhorting to implacability testifies to the closeness
of their league against Essex. The Earl's fiery anger had burnt against both alike. Had his
mad freak of treason succeeded, both would have been sacrificed in company.

[Sidenote: Intimacy with Robert Cecil.]

After Essex succumbed the alliance appeared as strict as before. The two households, as well
as the masters, were affectionately familiar. Cecil's son, William, was a most welcome guest
at Sherborne. No stronger proof of trust, it might have been thought, could be given by the
father. There is talk how 'the beloved creature's stomach is altogether amended, and he doth
now eat well and digest rightly;' how 'he is also better kept to his book.' As one intimately
conversant with Cecil's affairs, Ralegh undertook in August, 1601, the supervision of his recently
purchased estate at Rushmore. Pleasant postscripts are interposed on Lady Ralegh's behalf:
'Bess returns you her best wishes, notwithstanding all quarrels.' 'Bess says that she must
envy any fingers whosoever that shall wear her gloves but your own.' There are threats from
her that for the breach of a recent engagement he shall on his next visit have plain fare.
Ralegh relied on Cecil to protect his monopoly of Virginian trade under his patent against
unlicensed Adventurers. They cheapen, he complained, by their imports sassafras from its proper
price of 20s. to 12s. a pound; they 'cloy the market;' 'they go far towards overthrowing the
enterprise' of the plantation of Virginia, 'which I shall yet live to see an English nation.'
In addition they introduced contraband cedar-trees. These, if the Lord Admiral would order
their seizure, Ralegh intended to divide 'into three parts--to ciel cabinets, and make bords,
and many other delicate things.' He asked for Cecil's aid; 'but what you think unfit to be
done for me shall never be a quarrel either internal or external. If we cannot have what we
would, methinks it is a great bond to find a friend that will strain himself in his friend's
cause in whatsoever--as this world fareth.'

[Sidenote: Cecil's Sentiments.]

Throughout Elizabeth's reign, and beyond it, Ralegh's language to Cecil keeps the same tone
of implicit faith. In words Cecil was not behind his more fluent and continuous correspondent.
At heart he would appear, from his communications to others, to have come to regard Ralegh
as a dangerous rival before the Queen's death. Shrewd observers detected the growth of the
sentiment, in spite of the alliance against the common foe, and even, for reasons which are
not obvious, in consequence of it. 'Cecil,' wrote Harington, who had been a trusted comrade
of Essex, in his Nugae, 'doth bear no love to Ralegh in the matter of Essex.' An important
letter found among the Burleigh papers, without date or signature, but for good cause attributed
to Lord Henry Howard, and probably written towards the end of Elizabeth's reign, shows how
eagerly Cecil and Ralegh were regarded by their respective partisans as hostile competitors.
Probably its genesis resembled that of Ralegh's argument for the thorough overthrow of Essex.
It seems to have been an elaborate written embodiment of a policy which the Minister may have
heard before from its author's mouth. It differs from Ralegh's letter in being absolutely in
harmony with Howard's conduct at the time and after. In it the writer, with the 'Asiatic endless'
prolixity which James himself ridiculed, propounded a plan for arranging that 'Cobham, the
block all mighty that gives oracles, and Ralegh, the cogging spirit that prompteth it,' should
be set in responsible positions in which they would be sure to fail. There is no reason to
suppose that Cecil accepted the particular advice. He would be inclined to doubt the certainty
of Ralegh's failure, should an opportunity of distinction be afforded him. But the document
could not have been written unless its author had been positive of Cecil's sympathy with its
object, the reduction of Ralegh, by whatever means, to a condition of confirmed obscurity and
dependence.

[Sidenote: Rival Camps.]

As the termination of the Queen's reign more manifestly approached, the interests of Cecil
and Ralegh seemed to grow more and more widely separated. Researches into the secret history
of the final year or two reveal Ralegh and Cobham on one side, and Cecil and Lord Henry Howard
on the other, as chiefs of opposite camps, with a converging outlook upon King James. Cecil,
like his father, had been regarded by James as hostile to his proclamation as Elizabeth's heir.
The death of 'my martyr Essex' increased his dislike. He was not assured of the baselessness
of Essex's cry as he rode through the city: 'The crown of England is sold to the Spaniard!'
He may have suspected the existence of schemes for the elevation of Arabella Stuart. Henry
Howard brought him and Cecil to a mutual understanding. Howard, now remembered chiefly as the
builder of Northumberland House, took a leading part in the machinations of Elizabeth's and
James's reigns. As a Catholic, though at times conforming, and as brother of the hapless Duke
of Norfolk, he had hated the Cecils. His dislike of Robert Cecil had been inflamed by partizanship
for his kinsman Essex; notwithstanding, with his insatiable love of intrigue, he is said to
have played off the two against one another. Now, convinced that Cecil was too strong, or too
necessary, to be discarded, and possessing James's full confidence, he set himself to the cure
of the King's distrust. Finally Cecil became for James 'my dearest Cecil.' James accepted him
so entirely as to promise that Cecil's friends and foes should be his. Thenceforward a league
was formed, and a correspondence was opened, between the King on one side and Cecil and Howard
on the other, which are equally discreditable to all three.

[Sidenote: The Succession.]

The compact was not the work of a moment, and Cecil's rivals do not appear to the end to have
understood how absolute it was. Neither was it of very old standing. For long Elizabeth's councillors
hesitated to throw in their lot with the Scottish claim to the succession. They could not read
clearly the national inclination. The country had been undecided. As Cecil confessed he had
once said, there were several competitors for whose right it was possible to argue. The Suffolk
family possessed some sort of Parliamentary title. Arabella Stuart was not, like James, an
alien, or a foreign sovereign. Discussion, or even advocacy, of either title, whether by Cecil,
Ralegh, or Cobham, was, till the actual proclamation of James, not treasonable. But after the
death of Mary Stuart, and, more plainly still, after that of Essex, it became manifest that
the English people meant to crown the King of Scots. Cecil and Ralegh equally discerned the
certainty. Both acted accordingly, and each suspected the other's procedure. Both started evenly
with the same stain, in James's eyes, of enmity to Essex. Cecil, however, had the advantage
of partnership with Henry Howard, and Ralegh the disadvantage of partnership with Cobham. He
had to overcome the more invincible obstacle of his possession of a character, demeanour, and
policy, in good features as well as bad, essentially distasteful to the Prince he had to conciliate.

[Sidenote: Prejudices of King James.]

Without Elizabeth's knowledge, Cecil kept up an active correspondence with the Scottish Court.
Ralegh had his concealed relations with it too. Neither is to be severely blamed for feeling
an attraction to the nearest heir to the throne. Something even of personal enthusiasm at the
prospect was not so absurd a sentiment as it seems to posterity. The nature of James was not
well understood, and hope was placed in his youth. Contrasts were drawn, as Ralegh expressed
it at his trial, between a lady whom time had surprised, and an active king. Ralegh had recognised
that no other successor was possible. Lord Northumberland, writing to persuade James to be
courteous to him, declared that he 'must allow Ralegh's ever allowance of the King's right.'
Ralegh indeed had never favoured any rival candidate, Arabella Stuart as little as the Infanta.
About Arabella there is no cause to doubt the veracity of his assertion, reported by Dudley
Carleton, that 'of all women he ever saw he never liked her.' Simply he had opposed, as Elizabeth
herself opposed, and in his character of her faithful servant, the termination of the abeyance
of the dignity of heir presumptive. In the interest of her tranquillity he had addressed to
Elizabeth a written argument against the announcement of a successor. Eventually, some time
before Elizabeth's death, he had perceived that it was useless to act as if any successor but
James were possible. With his sanguine temperament he acquiesced in the inevitable as if it
were positively advantageous. He saw his way to render as excellent service to the State under
King James as he was rendering now. He was conscious of the obstacles in his path; he was unconscious
that they were insuperable. He knew he had been always ranked as of the anti-Scottish party.
He knew the specific meaning James would put upon his resistance to the formal declaration
of a successor. His antagonism to Essex, he was aware, had created a strong repulsion against
him in the King's mind. But he overrated the amount of the resources at his disposal for his
protection from the weight of aversion he had excited. He equally underrated the inveteracy
of the dislike, and the degree of additional suspicion which his measures of self-defence would
awaken. James had long looked forward to a day when he should 'have account of the presumption
of the base instruments about the Queen who abused her ear.' That was his way of thinking of
the Queen's favourite councillors. Cecil knew how to purchase his pardon. Ralegh, gathering
strength about him to render his friendship worth buying, only deepened the king's conviction
that he could be mischievous; he did not implant a conviction that he was a desirable auxiliary.
The 'consultations of Durham House' became notorious. They alarmed both Howard and James just
sufficiently to induce them to temporise. They fixed the resolution sooner or later to ruin
the promoter. The Duke of Lennox came to London in November, 1601. He cultivated Ralegh's acquaintance
through Sir Arthur Savage. James characterized Savage in a letter of 1602 to Howard as 'trucheman,'
or interpreter, 'to Raulie, though of a nature far different, and a very honest plain gentleman.'
Terms were offered by the Duke which Ralegh boasted he had rejected. To Cecil he protested
that he had been over-deeply engaged and obliged to his own mistress to seek favour anywhere
else. According to Howard, Ralegh asked Cecil to divulge this to the Queen; but Cecil, with
good sense, represented to him that the Queen 'would rather mark a weakness than praise his
resolution.'

[Sidenote: Lord Henry Howard.]

Whatever he had done or left undone, whatever promises had been made, and however they had
been entertained, the end would have been the same. Henry Howard inflamed the instinctive aversion
which James had long felt for Ralegh. Howard hated Ralegh with a virulence not easily explicable,
which appeared to be doubled by its abatement towards Cecil. He had resolved to destroy both
Ralegh and Cobham. On the testimony of his own letters it is clear he did not mind how tortuously
and perfidiously he worked. He calculated upon Cobham's weakness, and upon the inflammation
of Ralegh with 'some so violent desire upon the sudden as to bring him into that snare which
he would shun otherwise.' He poisoned James's mind incurably against 'those wicked villains,'
'that crew,' and its 'hypocrisy,' the 'accursed duality,' or 'the triplicity that denies the
Trinity.' By the triplicity he signified Ralegh, Cobham, and Northumberland. Ralegh had other
enemies besides. Among them was Cobham's new wife, Frances Howard, Countess dowager of Kildare,
daughter of the Lord Admiral. Henry Howard, who did not like her, admitted that she had helped
in persuading Cecil to side with King James. She and Lady Ralegh had 'an ancient acquaintance,'
which had resulted in mutual detestation.

[Sidenote: Spite against Lady Ralegh.]

[Sidenote: Ralegh's 'Humours.']

Lady Ralegh in March, 1602, reminded Cecil how 'unfavourable my Lady Kildare hath dealt with
me to the Queen. I wish she would be as ambitious to do good as she is apt to the contrary.'
Lady Kildare had infused her own animosity into her father, whose official 'weakness and oversights'
it is very likely Ralegh was, as Henry Howard had said, given to 'studying.' 'My Lord Admiral,'
wrote Howard to Mar, James's ambassador, 'the other day wished from his soul he had but the
same commission to carry the cannon to Durham House, that he had this time twelve months to
carry it to Essex House, to prove what sport he could make in that fellowship.' In its larger
sense the alleged fellowship comprised the Earl of Northumberland, who played fast and loose
with it, Lady Shrewsbury, known as Lady Arabella's custodian, and Lady Ralegh, in addition
to her husband and Cobham. Howard honoured Lady Ralegh with his particular hostility. 'She
is a most dangerous woman,' he exclaims, 'and full of her father's inventions.' He was much
alarmed at the possible success of some project for bringing her to her old place in the Privy
Chamber. To its failure he ascribed her determination to 'bend her whole wit and industry to
the disturbance of the possibility of others' hopes since her own cannot be settled.' He urged
Cecil to arrange that it should be brought to Elizabeth's knowledge 'what canons are concluded
in the chapter of Durham, where Ralegh's wife is president.' Ralegh himself and Cobham were,
however, the universal objects of his copious invectives: 'You may well believe,' he wrote,
'that hell did never vomit up such a couple.' Cecil's own language to James was almost as vituperative.
He was furious at the bare notion that any should vie with him for the heir's confidence. He
represented Cobham and Ralegh, who were trying to obtain a share of James's favour, as mere
hypocrites who hated the King at heart. If they held themselves out as his friends, or he held
himself out as theirs, James was not to believe it. He excused himself for 'casting sometimes
a stone into the mouth of these gaping crabs' to prevent them from 'confessing their repugnance
to be under his Majesty's sovereignty.' He hoped to be pardoned if from ancient 'private affection'
he had the semblance of supporting Ralegh in particular, 'a person whom most religious men
do hold anathema,' who had, moreover, shown 'ingratitude to me.' He could not imagine that
he owed as much to Ralegh as Ralegh to him. But that was natural. If James should hear that
he had not checked demonstrations by Ralegh, in his 'light and sudden humours,' against the
King, he prayed James to ascribe it to a desire to retain sufficient influence over him 'to
dissuade him, under pretext of extraordinary care of his well doing, from engaging himself
too far.' He warned James especially against being beguiled into thinking Ralegh a man of a
good and affectionate disposition. If 'upon any new humour of kindness, whereof sometimes he
will be replete,' he should write in Cecil's favour, 'be it never so much in my commendation,'
James was not to believe it. The correspondence of Howard and Cecil with James breathes throughout
a jealous terror that Cobham and Ralegh, and chiefly Ralegh, might either supersede them in
James's kindness, or steal into his confidence under the pretext of fellowship with them, and
claim a share in the advantages. Ralegh's correspondence with the King, as theirs implies,
has no such malignant, envious features. The King, however, was already incurably prejudiced.
Howard's and Cecil's imputations only confirmed an impression of long standing.

[Sidenote: Character of Cobham.]

Against two enemies of this force and animosity Ralegh had no actual ally except Lord Cobham.
Henry Howard had mentioned Northumberland as a confederate. How far the Earl, who had married
Essex's sister, Dorothy, widow of Sir Thomas Perrot, could be reckoned upon may be judged from
his description of Ralegh to James as 'a man whose love is disadvantageous to me in some sort,
which I cherish rather out of constancy than policy.' Cobham was Cecil's brother-in-law, and
their interests had long been inseparable. Ralegh would originally have desired his friendship
as a means of cementing the intimacy with his potent connexion. He had been of the league against
Essex. In opposition to Essex's solicitations for Sir Robert Sidney he had obtained the Lord
Wardenship of the Cinque Ports. Essex had joined him with Cecil and Ralegh in the charges of
perfidy. His personal favour with Elizabeth had been useful to the family compact. He was wealthy,
and Cecil valued wealth in his domestic circle. Houses and lands brought him in £7000 a year;
and he had woods and goods worth a capital sum of £30,000 besides. His furniture was as rich
as any man's of his rank. One piece of plate was priced at £3500, and a ring at £500. He spent
£150 at a time upon books. He was not devoid of good instincts; for he could repent of a misdeed
or unkindness, and, after repeating it, repent again. But he was garrulous, puffed up with
a sense of his own importance, full of levity and passion, and morally, if not physically,
a coward. Ralegh, whom some social brilliancy in the man, as well as his rank and fortune,
may have dazzled, can at no time have been wholly unconscious of the defects which later he
resentfully characterized: of the 'dispositions of such violence, which his best friends cannot
temper'; 'his known fashion to do any friend he hath wrong, and then repent it'; and 'his fashion
to utter things easily.' Cecil regarded a nature like this scornfully. Infirmities might be
tolerated in a brother-in-law who was a trusty ally. They could not be endured in a competitor.

[Sidenote: Cecil's Jealousy.]

Neither Ralegh nor Cobham appears to have detected the growth of rancour in Cecil. Ralegh maintained
confidential intercourse with him on affairs of state. Together they were, as has been seen,
conferring privately with Elizabeth on the policy to be adopted towards Munster rebels a few
months before her death. Ralegh's correspondence with him betrays no suspicion of estrangement.
It keeps throughout the old amiable style. There is talk of the price of timber at Rushmore.
Salutations were sent so late as July 20, 1602, to 'my Lord Cobham and you, both in one letter,'
with vows to 'do you both service with all I have, and my life to boot.' Ten weeks before Elizabeth's
death Cecil was writing to Ralegh about partnership in a privateer. Ralegh in a memorable letter
to his wife in July, 1603, spoke of the business association as still subsisting. It is difficult
to believe that Cecil reciprocated, unless from complaisance and policy, the ferocity against
Ralegh and Cobham, or either, which inspired Henry Howard's venomous canting mystifications,
and was echoed by James. His correspondence with Ralegh's cousin, George Carew, countenances
the view that his hostility had something in it of hurt affection. He was capable of tenderness
for men who were willing to be his auxiliaries, who at all events would not be, and could not
be, his rivals. But he was mistrustful. He readily confused any increased intimacy between
friends of his with enmity to himself. He wrote to Carew in Ireland in June, 1601, to excuse
himself, in his enigmatical manner, for an appearance of unkindness: 'If I did not know that
you do measure me by your own heart towards me, it might be a doubtfulness in me that the mutinies
of those I do love and will--howsoever they do me--might incite in you some belief that I was
ungrateful towards them. But, sir, for the better man, the second always sways him, and to
what passion he is subject who is subject to his lady, I leave to your judgment and experience.'
Later, in 1602, he complained to Carew: 'Our two old friends do use me unkindly. But I have
covenanted with my heart not to know it. In show we are great. All my revenge shall be to heap
coals of fire on their heads.' He carried out his promise, and his coals scorched. Yet it may
be questioned if he were conscious of a virulent humour towards his friend and his brother-in-law.
Merely they were in his way, and threatened to embarrass the career which was his life. They
were presuming to act independently. They pursued schemes which, if successful, would disturb
his monopoly of power. If unsuccessful, they might, through his connexion with them, compromise
him. He would not be sorry if circumstances combined against them, and brushed them as politicians
from his path.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE FALL (April-June, 1603).

[Sidenote: Death of the Queen.]

[Sidenote: Introduction to the Successor.]

Elizabeth died on March 24, 1603. In the previous September Howard had reported her 'never
so gallant many years, nor so set upon jollity.' James set out from Scotland on April 5. Ralegh
at the Queen's death was in the West. He returned hastily to London. There is a legend, countenanced
by Sir John Hawles, that, with Sir John Fortescue and Cobham, he tried a movement for 'articling'
with James before proclaiming him. Unsuspicious Aubrey narrates that at a consultation at Whitehall
he went to the length of recommending the establishment of a 'commonwealth.' His object, he
is said to have explained, was to save Englishmen from being subject to a needy, beggarly nation
like the Scotch. Neither story rests on any foundation, except some possible light taunt of
his. His name was not appended to the Proclamation, as he was not a Privy Councillor; but he
was present at a meeting in the evening, when a loyal letter of welcome to the King was drawn
up, and he signed it. Immediately afterwards he started, like many others, northwards, and
met the King at Burleigh House. Cecil had taken credit for having stayed, he said, the journey
of the Captain of the Guard, who was conducting many suitors to James. Ralegh did not suffer
himself to be stopped either by Cecil's advice or by a Proclamation against the resort to the
King of persons holding public offices, to the injury of public business. He assigned as the
cause of his arrival the need of a royal letter to authorize the continuance of legal process
in the Duchy of Cornwall, and to check the waste of royal woods and parks within it. Unmannerly
James is said by Aubrey to have received him with a poor rude pun on his name: 'Rawly! Rawly!
true enough, for I think of thee very rawly, mon.' Isaac D'Israeli credits the story. He superfluously
thinks it settles, as without better authority than the King's broad Scotch it certainly could
not, the proper pronunciation of the name. In itself it may be rather more plausible than Aubrey's
tale of Ralegh's reply to the King's boast that he could have won the succession by force:
'Would God,' cried Ralegh, 'that had been put to the trial!' 'Why?' asked James. 'Because,'
was the oracular answer--'never,' says Aubrey, 'forgotten or forgiven'--'your Majesty would
then have known your friends from your foes.' It is much easier to agree with the apparent
meaning of Aubrey's interrupted general reflection on the first meeting of King and subject:
'Sir Walter Ralegh had that awfulness and ascendency in his aspect over other mortals that
the K---- '. At all events, the King ordered the speedy delivery of the authorization, that
Ralegh might have no excuse for delay. The unwelcome guest took the hint. Acting-Secretary
Sir Thomas Lake reported to Cecil that he was gone, having 'to my seeming taken no great root
here.'

[Sidenote: Odium.]

At a council held by James at Cecil's seat of Theobald's, monopolies granted by Elizabeth were
called in. The measure was based by its authors upon the need of popularity for the new reign.
They were not sorry to hit Ralegh with the same stone. A question was raised at the Board whether
the office of wine licenser were not a monopoly. Until the Council should have decided, the
levy of all dues was suspended. A large part of Ralegh's income was at once cut off. He was
summoned a few days later to the Council Chamber at Whitehall, to be informed that the King
had appointed Sir Thomas Erskine, afterwards Earl of Kellie, Captain of the Guard. To this
he is related to have in very humble manner submitted himself. His enemies knew they could
in this as in other ways wound him with a certainty of applause for the gratification of their
spite. Within a month of the Queen's decease a prayer of 'poor men' had been addressed to James
against monopolies. The manifesto contained an especial allusion to Ralegh, of whom it wildly
spoke as about to be created Earl of Pembroke. So, on the occasion of the dismissal from the
command of the Guard, Beaumont, the French Ambassador, informed his Court that Cecil had induced
the King to make the change on the ground of Ralegh's unpopularity, which would render his
removal highly acceptable to the country. Henry Howard, before the demise of the Crown, when
the effect of Ralegh's blandishments upon James was feared, had preached to the King on the
same text. He reported a refusal by Elizabeth of the command of a regiment to Northumberland,
for the reason that 'Ralegh had made the Earl as odious as himself, because he would not be
singular, and such were not to be employed by princes of sound policy.'

For the present a semblance of consideration was preserved. The loss of the Captaincy was apparently
sweetened by the elimination from his patent for the Governorship of Jersey of the reservation
of £300 a year to the Crown or Seymour, and by the condonation of some arrears due from him.
His fall elicited from him no symptom of anger against the King. If a letter purporting to
be addressed by him to James be genuine, though the evidence for it is not strong, he was not
as placid with respect to others. There the loss of his captaincy is angrily imputed to Cecil,
who is accused of having brought about the deaths both of Essex and Queen Mary. Chronology
must have forbidden James to attach weight to the latter allegation, if he had cared for it.
On the former he would be better inclined to credit Howard, who asserted that Cecil had worked
for Essex's deliverance. Cecil himself could produce the letter of 1600-1, signed 'W.R.' Soon
Ralegh experienced a fresh proof of his helplessness, in a notice of ejectment from Durham
House. Bishop Tobias Matthew of Durham met James at Berwick, and gained his ear. He used his
influence and Ralegh's odium to procure an order for the restoration of the London episcopal
residence. It was retaliation for his loss of the See of Sarum through Ralegh. On May 31 a
royal warrant was issued for the removal of the present occupants, Ralegh and Sir Edward Darcy.
Ralegh wrote on June 8 or 9, asking permission to stay till Michaelmas. He pleaded the £2000
he had spent on the structure during the twenty years of his tenancy. He recounted his outlay
on autumn and winter provisions for a household of forty persons and twenty horses. He complained
to no purpose. He was ordered to quit by Midsummer.

[Sidenote: Inopportune Advice.]

[Sidenote: The Fourth Party.]

Notwithstanding rebuffs, he continued to frequent the Court. He was at Beddington Park when
the King on his Progress visited Sir Francis Carew, Lady Ralegh's uncle. Ralegh previously
had laid before James a Discourse touching a War with Spain, and of the Protecting of the Netherlands.
It is a most forcible, and, from its own point of view, sagacious disquisition in favour of
persistency in the war with Spain, and the alliance with Holland, as well for offensive purposes
against the Spaniards, as for defence, whether against Spain or France. As a controversial
pamphlet it evinces none of the want of judgment with which Hallam charges Ralegh, though the
defect appears plainly in his obtrusion of such views upon James. At Beddington he had an opportunity
of clenching his argument, and the King's suspicions, by an offer, of which he subsequently
boasted, to invade the Spanish dominions, at no cost to the King, with 2000 men. In the treatise
he opposed the conclusion of any hasty peace with Spain. He referred to another essay, now
lost, and never published, in which he had indicated How War may be made against Spain and
the Indies. Spain was anxious for peace, and desired to consolidate it by separating England
from France and Holland. The negotiations had begun in the lifetime of Elizabeth. They had
excited much party spirit at Court, where Cobham already was conspicuous as their advocate,
and Ralegh as their opponent. James's accession infused additional keenness into the contest.
France was apprehensive of the King's proclivity towards an alliance, not merely peace, with
Spain. Henry IV was not disinclined to the restoration of tranquillity in Europe. He was afraid
of an Anglo-Spanish pacification of a character so cordial as to affect the league between
the French and English Governments as it had existed in the late reign. He sent Sully over
to cement the good understanding of the two States by arguments and gifts to the leading courtiers.
Sully found the new Court honeycombed with intrigues. His fixed idea was that Spain was meditating
much beyond the simple alienation of England from her ancient allies; 'qu'il se tramait quelque
chose de bien plus important.' By means of the competing factions he tried to discover this
great secret design. His researches were not confined to statesmen in authority, like Cecil,
whom he characterizes in his candid Memoirs as 'tout mystère,' caring for no combination except
so far as it might serve his individual political interests. He pursued his inquiries also
among politicians out of power. They composed, he says, a 'Fourth Party,' with no basis of
agreement, unless that its members could agree with no other party. He names as its leaders
Northumberland, Southampton, Cumberland, Cobham, Ralegh, and Griffin Markham. They are described
by him as 'gens seditieux, de caractère purement Anglais, et prêts a tout entreprendre en faveur
des nouveautés, fut-ce contre le Roi.' Northumberland he induced by a large pension to collect
for him secret intelligence, though he did not believe it. All he obtained from 'Milords Cobham
et Raleich' was that, when he broached to them his notion of the dark schemes of Spain, they
replied 'conformement à cet avis.'

[Sidenote: Ralegh's Egotism.]

His communications with Ralegh were limited to the extraction of this expression of assent.
Nowhere does he assert or imply that Ralegh accepted any present from him, or entered into
any compact. Yet Hume founds on the bald statement of sympathy a formal allegation that Ralegh
offered his services to France, and that the offer was repulsed. It is a sample of the way
in which he has been traduced. Sully's evidence exhibits him in his invariable attitude of
an adversary of Spain and Spanish pretensions. It does not indicate the smallest tendency in
him to further his own policy by means of illegitimate foreign influences. His mistake was
the belief that he could by perseverance impose his doctrines and himself upon the sovereign.
In theory he understood, as he lays down in his History, that it is not sufficient to be wise
with a wise prince, valiant with a valiant, and just with a just; a courtier, who would have
an estate in his prosperity, must, he teaches, live altogether out of himself, study other
men's humours, and change with the successor to the throne. In practice none ever disobeyed
this law of advancement more signally than Ralegh in relation to James. His egotism often before
had blinded him to the idiosyncrasies of others. He seems to have been more than ordinarily
incapable of comprehending those of his present ruler. He presumed eagerness in a young King
to signalize his accession by feats of arms. The high spirit of James was the source from which
he hoped to draw the motive force necessary for the accomplishment of his vast designs against
the colonial empire of Spain. An accidental conjunction of circumstances enabled him to see
speedily the effect of his attempt to storm the royal confidence by displaying his own martial
propensities.

CHAPTER XVIII.

AWAITING TRIAL (July-November, 1603).

[Sidenote: The Plots.]

We now enter the period of the plot and plot within plot in which Anthony Copley, the priests
William Watson and Francis Clarke, George Brooke and his brother Cobham, Sir Griffin Markham
and his brothers, the Puritan Lord Grey of Wilton, and Sir Edward Parham were variously and
confusedly implicated. The intrigue, 'a dark kind of treason,' as Rushworth calls it, 'a sham
plot' as it is styled by Sir John Hawles, belongs to our story only so far as the cross machinations
involved Ralegh. His slender relation to it is as hard to fix as a cobweb or a nightmare. Even
in his own age his part in it was, as obsolete Echard says, 'all riddle and mystery.' Cobham
had an old acquaintance with the Count of Arenberg, Minister to the Archduke Albert and the
Infanta Isabel, joint sovereigns of the Low Countries. The Infanta was that daughter of Philip
II whose claims to the English throne Jesuits had asserted, and Essex had affected to fear.
During the late reign Cobham had been in the habit of corresponding with the Count both openly
and secretly. De la Fayle and an Antwerp merchant, la Renzi or de Laurencie, carried letters
and messages to and fro. In November, 1602, the Count had invited Cobham to come over and confer
about peace, of which Cobham was a strong advocate. After James's accession he wrote again.
Cobham inquired of Cecil and the King how he was to reply. James answered that Cobham should
know his pleasure on the meeting of the Council. To Lennox he remarked angrily that Cobham
was more busy in it than he needed to be. Cobham meanwhile thought of going abroad; but Cecil
dissuaded him. In May, 1603, Arenberg sent a third letter by de la Fayle.

[Sidenote: Cobham's Projects.]

During this period Cobham frequently met Ralegh. He was negotiating the purchase of a fee farm
from the Crown, and trusted much to Ralegh's advice. He had confided to Ralegh £4000 worth
of jewels to complete the contract. Their talk, Ralegh admitted later, though commonly about
private affairs, would sometimes turn upon questions of State. Before the Queen's death, it
must be repeated, Ralegh would have committed no crime, or even impropriety, in listening,
if he ever listened, without disapproval to Cobham's most intemperate assertions in favour
of the title of Arabella, and against that of James. The evidence adduced of their talk on
politics after the King's accession contains no reference to any such topic. Even if its subject
then had been improper, nothing worse than passive complicity was proved against Ralegh. Thus,
one day at dinner, in Cobham's house at Blackfriars, Cobham declared that the Count, when he
came, would yield such strong arguments for peace as would satisfy any man. He specified great
sums of money to be given to certain Councillors for their aid. Cecil and Lord Mar were instanced
by him. On the same occasion he held out liberal offers to Ralegh. Ralegh, by his own account,
which was not contradicted by other testimony, only listened. When he was taxed at his trial
with having given ear to matters he had not to deal in, he exclaimed: 'Could I stop my Lord
Cobham's mouth!' The teaching of adversity showed him that in prudence he should have removed
himself from the possibility of hearing. 'Venture not thy estate,' he wrote in his Instructions
to his Son and to Posterity, 'with any of those great ones that shall attempt unlawful things,
for thou shalt be sure to be part with them in the danger, but not in the honour. I myself
know it, and have tasted it in all the course of my life.' But the application of the warning,
and the regret, to the hearing of Cobham's vague after-dinner flights might have seemed, unless
for the result, impossibly remote.

[Sidenote: Negotiations with Arenberg.]

Early in June the Count arrived in London, under the escort of Henry Howard. Cobham, with la
Renzi, visited him on June 9. At night Cobham supped with Ralegh at Durham House; or Ralegh
supped with Cobham at Blackfriars, being accompanied by him back to Durham House afterwards.
From Durham House Cobham was alleged to have gone privily with la Renzi to obtain a promise
of money from the Count. According to Cecil's narrative in the following August to Sir Thomas
Parry, the Ambassador at Paris, Cobham had told Arenberg that if he would provide four or five
hundred thousand crowns, 'he could show him a better way to prosper than by peace.' Scaramelli,
the Secretary to the Venetian Legation, wrote home on December 1, 1603, that Arenberg promised
300,000 ducats in cash, and an equal sum when he should have returned to Flanders. Ralegh subsequently
was accused of having on this occasion been offered money by Cobham to be a promoter of peace.
Cobham, in the written statement read at the trial, alleged that Ralegh had bargained for £1500
a year for divulging Court secrets. How Ralegh, out of favour and wholly eclipsed, was to learn
them, Cobham did not indicate. Ralegh mentioned subsequently he had noticed from a window of
Durham House that Lord Cobham once or twice after visiting him was rowed past his own mansion
at Blackfriars. He went to St. Saviour's, on the other side of the river. There la Renzi was
known to be residing. This is the sum of the facts out of which the large fabric of Ralegh's
guilt was to be constructed.

[Sidenote: The 'Surprising Treason.']

He had attended the Court to Windsor. There he heard of the arrest of Anthony Copley in Sussex
on July 6. From Copley, according to Cecil at the trial, the first discovery of the Bye or
Surprising Treason came. By letter from Windsor, Ralegh informed Cobham. On July 12 Copley
was examined. George Brooke was arrested on the 14th, and the arrests of Lord Grey of Wilton
and Sir Griffin Markham were ordered. One day between the 12th and the 16th Ralegh was on the
Terrace at Windsor. The King was preparing to hunt, and Ralegh was waiting to join the cavalcade.
Cecil came out, and bade him, as from the King, stay. The Lords in the Chamber, Cecil said,
had some questions to put to him. How far he was interrogated on the intercourse of Cobham
with the Count, and how much he disclosed, is obscure. At his trial he gave his story of the
transaction. He said he was examined at Windsor touching the conspiracy to surprise and coerce
the King; next, about plotting for Arabella; thirdly, about practices with the Lord Cobham.
He added: 'It is true I suspected that Lord Cobham kept intelligence with Arenberg. For long
since he held that course with him in the Low Countries, as was well known to my Lord Treasurer
and to my Lord Cecil. La Renzi being a man also well known to me, I, so seeing him and the
Lord Cobham together, thought that was the time they both had been to Count d'Arenberg. I gave
intimation thereof. But I was willed by my Lord Cecil not to speak of this, because the King
at the first coming of Arenberg would not give him occasion of suspicion. Wherefore I wrote
to the Lord Cecil that if la Renzi were not taken the matter would not be discovered. Yet,
if he were then apprehended, it would give matter of suspicion to the Lord Cobham. This letter
of mine being presently shown to the Lord Cobham, he spake bitterly of me; yet, ere he came
to the stairs' foot, he repented him, and, as I hear, acknowledged that he had done me wrong.'

Ralegh's account of the matter, in a court of honour, might have been that Cobham's understanding
with Arenberg did not seem to him of much importance. As it perplexed the Council he, not perceiving
the possible prejudice to his friend, volunteered his services in clearing it up. When it was
discovered to be deadly, or had been inflated into an appearance of capital criminality, his
letter to Cecil was employed to represent to Cobham an act, it must be admitted, at best of
not very friendly officiousness as black treachery. His suggestion to Cecil is in any case
inconsistent with consciousness of a guilty connexion with treason, if there were treason.
Nobody of the least sagacity, much less the 'master of wiles,' such as contemporaries accounted
Ralegh, if he had been concerned in a plot, and if his implication in it had been known to
a single person, would have been so foolish as to provoke his one accomplice to retaliate by
accusing him.

[Sidenote: Ralegh in Confinement.]

[Sidenote: The Message by Keymis.]

From the examination at Windsor he returned a prisoner, confined to his own house. Some intercourse
was then held between him and Cobham, through Captain Keymis. He said he sent Keymis to explain
to Cobham that, being under restraint, he could not come himself, and to mention what he had
done with Mr. Attorney in the matter of a great pearl and diamond given him by Cobham in order
to arrange the business of the fee farm Cobham was purchasing from the Crown. He had added
that he 'had cleared him,' which was, he asserted, true, as he had remarked to Cecil that he
believed Cobham had no concern with the plot of the priests. Cecil's statement disagrees both
as to Ralegh's examination, and as to the message to Cobham. According to Cecil, Ralegh was
not examined at Windsor on any matter concerning Cobham. Yet, though Cobham was not then suspected,
and though Ralegh had been examined about himself alone, he immediately, it is alleged, sent
Keymis to tell Cobham that he had been examined concerning him, and that he had cleared him
of all to the Lords. Keymis is stated, though not by Cecil, to have added verbally, as if from
Ralegh, an exhortation to Cobham to be 'of good comfort, for one witness could not condemn
a man for treason.' Ralegh denied positively that any such message came from him. Keymis would
not have invented it to injure; he may, in the hope that the effect would be beneficial, have
repeated to Cobham casual expressions he had heard from Ralegh; or Cobham may have himself
imagined the message was from Ralegh without any authority to that purport from Keymis. The
former hypothesis is not inconsistent with the character of the messenger. Keymis could endure
much for his leader. Without flinching he bore imprisonment in the Tower and Fleet, from which
he was not released till December 31, 1603. He was a brave and loyal follower, but not very
prudent, as after-events evinced. If the prosecution thought it could prove that he really
used the words as from Ralegh, it is strange that it did not venture to produce him in court
to testify to it.

Cobham could not have escaped suspicion. Ralegh's allusion to his dealings with Arenberg was
not needed to direct it against him. He was notoriously reckless in his language. It had been
remarked by Beaumont, the French Ambassador, in the previous May that he could scarcely mention
Cecil without abusing him as a traitor. He was not likely to have been reticent on his relations
with the Archduke's envoy. He was examined before the Privy Council several times at Richmond
after July 15. On July 20 he confessed that he had asked Arenberg to procure five or six hundred
thousand crowns for distribution among English malcontents. He had purposed to go on, after
an interview with the Archduke in the Netherlands, and seek the money from the King of Spain.
From Spain he intended, if the report of his examination can be credited, to return home by
way of Jersey, where he expected to meet Ralegh. With him he meant to discuss the application
of the money. So far his statement indicated reliance on his power of persuading Ralegh to
abet the design. It showed no present complicity on Ralegh's part. At this point, according
to the official narrative, 'a note under Ralegh's hand was shown to Examinate. Examinate, when
he had perused the same, brake forth, saying, "O, Traitor! O, Villain! I will now tell you
all the truth." And then said that he had never entered into these courses but by Ralegh's
instigation; and that he would never let him alone.' He referred to suggestions by Ralegh of
plots and invasions, and said he feared when he had him in Jersey, he would send him to the
King. Convinced believers in Ralegh's duplicity will accept as satisfactory confirmation of
that extraordinary apprehension an opinion attributed by Aubrey to Lord Southampton, an old
enemy, that Ralegh joined the conspiracy in order to buy his peace by betraying it, and had
schemed to inveigle Cobham and others over to Jersey, where he might secure them for the Government.

[Sidenote: Weaving a web for Ralegh.]

[Sidenote: Extorted Evidence.]

By this time various circumstances supposed to criminate Ralegh had been collected from the
answers of the other accused persons. Each had been given over to one or more Commissioners
to worry into confessions. Sir William Waad, or Wade, had charge of Ralegh, as of others. It
was Waad who had broken open Queen Mary's cabinet at Chartley Hall. He was fitted for any dirty
work. Keymis also had been arrested, and was examined by Waad and the Solicitor-General on
Ralegh's communications with Cobham. They told him he deserved the rack. Waad hereafter denied
that they ever 'threatened him with it.' La Renzi was examined, and deposed that Ralegh had
been in Cobham's company when Cobham received letters from Arenberg, and sent others to him.
The contents of the voluminous inquisitorial dust-heap were perpetually being sorted, and distributed,
or, reluctantly, discarded. Any answers reflecting on another, particularly if reflecting on
Ralegh, were carefully put aside, to fill gaps in the direct evidence against him. Thus, Brooke,
according to Sir William Waad, 'confidently thinketh what his brother knows was known to the
other.' On July 17, Brooke said that the conspirators among themselves thought Sir Walter Ralegh
a fit man to be of the action. No account was made of the report by Markham of an express warning
given him by Brooke himself against communications to Cobham, on the ground that whatever Cobham
knew, Ralegh the witch would get out of him. In August, Brooke affirmed that both Ralegh and
Cobham had resolved to destroy the King 'with all his cubs.' Watson mentioned that he and Brooke,
and apparently Copley, had consulted concerning Sir Walter's surprising of the King's fleet.
Copley reported a remark by Brooke that the project of causing stirs in Scotland came out of
Ralegh's head. Watson had said of an assembly at Cobham's house reported to him by Brooke,
that, beside Brooke and Cobham, my Lord Grey and Sir Walter Ralegh were there, and showed every
one of them great discontent, but especially the two Lords. My Lord Cobham discovered his revenge
to no less than the depriving of his Majesty and all his Royal issue both of crown, kingdom,
life, and all at once; and my Lord Grey, to use Master Brooke's own words, uttered nothing
but treason at every word. At a subsequent examination Watson stated to Sir William Waad that
from Brooke's words it was evident the great mass of money reported to be at the disposal of
the Jesuits was, most of it, from the Count of Arenberg. It was impossible for all the Catholics
in England to raise so much of themselves. Brooke, moreover, it was recorded, had stated that
his brother, Cobham, told him Lord Grey and others were only on the Bye, but he and Ralegh
were on the Main. By the Main was signified the dethronement of James in favour of Arabella.

[Sidenote: Attempt at Suicide.]

Such second or third hand tales were to be used to point and colour the particle of direct
testimony. This was Cobham's allegation that Ralegh had instigated the dealings with Arenberg.
Otherwise, as Cecil almost officially admitted in a letter of August 4 to Parry, the only ground
for proceedings against him was that he had been discontented in conspectu omnium ever since
the King came. Without Cobham's charge it would have been impossible to prosecute him with
any show of justice. Immediately after Cobham's examination he was committed to the Tower.
He was conveyed thither from Fulham Palace, where he had been examined before Bishop Bancroft,
one of the Royal Commissioners. He believed his doom decided. He found himself treated as convicted
before he was tried. A resignation of the Wardenship of the Stannaries had been extorted from
him. 'He underwent,' Sir John Harington wrote, 'a downfall of despair as his greatest enemy
could not have wished him so much harm as he would have done himself.' Sir John spoke of a
period before 1618. He did not know how Ralegh's enemies could accumulate hate. Ralegh never
put any faith in the equity of English criminal procedure. He was resolved, if the story about
to be related is to be credited, to disappoint it of some of its cruel fruits. Very soon after
his arrival at the Tower, it has been supposed on July 20, he is said to have attempted his
life. He was lodged in two small rooms in the Bloody tower. A couple of servants of his own
waited on him. He dined with the Lieutenant, Sir John Peyton. Being at table, he was reported
to have suddenly torn his vest open, seized a knife, and plunged it into his breast. It struck
a rib and glanced aside. Being prevented from repeating the blow, he threw the knife down,
crying, 'There! An end!' The wound appeared at first dangerous, though it turned out not very
serious. For the details of the occurrence we have to rely upon Cecil's correspondence, together
with a few words from Scaramelli, Secretary to the Venetian Legation. James had been informed
of the event by Cecil. His comment was that Ralegh should be well probed by a good preacher,
and induced to wound his spirit, not his body. His motive would be the rescue of Sherborne
for his wife and child from forfeiture through attainder, the sure result, as he truly foresaw,
of a trial for treason.

[Sidenote: A Disputed Letter.]

'After he had hurt himself,' it is stated on the extant copy of the letter, though more probably,
if at all, on the eve of the attempt, he is alleged to have written to apprise his wife of
his approaching death. In 1839, in an edition of Bishop Goodman's Court of King James the First,
the late Professor John Brewer printed an unsigned paper, purporting to be such a letter, which
had been found in All Souls College Library. Mr. Brewer describes it as in Sir Henry Yelverton's
Collection, for no other apparent reason than that the document is in a commonplace book, which
includes three speeches by Yelverton. The contents are miscellaneous, ranging from satirical
verses to State papers, and of dates from 1500 to 1617. Mr. Oman, of All Souls, considers that
the hand, the same throughout, of the copyist is of ordinary seventeenth century character.
The volume came to the college from the collection of Narcissus Luttrell. The name of the original
owner, for or by whom the matter was compiled and transcribed, is not known. Consequently,
belief in the authenticity of the supposed letter from Ralegh depends on its own intrinsic
probability.

[Sidenote: An Apocryphal Daughter.]

In the course of it, Ralegh, 'for his sake who was about to be cruel to himself, to preserve'
his wife, begged her to be charitable 'to my poor daughter, to whom I have given nothing,'
and to 'teach my son to love her for his father's sake.' Nowhere else is an allusion to this
daughter discoverable. Nothing is known of her or her mother. Almost a necessary presumption
is, that, if she existed, she was an illegitimate child. One benevolent writer has suggested,
without a shadow of evidence, a prior marriage to that with Elizabeth Throckmorton. The manner
in which she is commended to Lady Ralegh's compassion excludes the explanation that Lady Ralegh
was her mother, whether before or after marriage. Ralegh proceeded to ask his wife's 'kindness
for his brother Adrian Gilbert,' and for Keemis, 'a perfect honest man who hath much wrong
for my sake.' He advised her to marry, not to please sense, but to avoid poverty, and in order
to preserve their son. For myself, I am left of all men, that have done good to many. All my
good turns forgotten; all my errors revived and expounded to all extremity of ill. All my services,
hazards, and expenses for my country--plantings, discoveries, fights, councils, and whatever
else--malice hath now covered over. I am now made an enemy and traitor by the word of an unworthy
man. He hath proclaimed me to be a partaker of his vain imaginations, notwithstanding the whole
course of my life hath approved the contrary, as my death shall approve it. Woe, woe, woe be
unto him by whose falsehood we are lost. He hath separated us asunder. He hath slain my honour,
my fortune. He hath robbed thee of thy husband, thy child of his father, and me of you both.
O God! Thou dost know my wrongs. Know then, thou my wife and child; know then, thou my Lord
and King, that I ever thought them too honest to betray, and too good to conspire against.
The mercy of God is immeasurable; the cogitations of men comprehend it not. In the Lord I have
ever trusted; and I know that my Redeemer liveth. Far is it from me to be tempted with Satan;
I am only tempted with Sorrow, whose sharp teeth devour my heart. O God! Thou art goodness
itself; Thou canst not but be good to me. O God! that art mercy itself; Thou canst not but
be merciful to me! O Death! hasten thou unto me, that thou mayest destroy the memory of these,
and lay me up in dark forgetfulness. O Death! destroy my memory, which is my tormentor; my
thoughts and my life cannot dwell in one body. But do thou forget me, poor wife, that thou
mayest live to bring up my poor child. The Lord knows my sorrow to part from thee and my poor
child. But part I must, by enemies and injuries; part with shame, and triumph of my detractors.
And therefore be contented with this work of God and forget me in all things, but thine own
honour, and the love of mine. It does not ring truly. Hard as it may be to distinguish rhetoric
and passion in the death-bed phrases of men who have lived before the world, the contrast here
with the natural pathos of the other, and undisputed, farewell of December, is too irreconcilably
vivid. Then there is the extraordinary apparition of an otherwise invisible daughter. It is
not the more intelligible for the opposite difficulty that few forgers would have been likely
to venture upon so surprising an invention. The total disappearance of the original manuscript,
and the absence for more than two centuries of all knowledge of its contents, are still stronger
elements of doubt. Together, the circumstances fully justify the scepticism of Mr. Hepworth
Dixon in the copious compilation styled by him a History of the Tower, though it is not requisite
to adopt his amusing surmise that a document allowed to repose in the dark till the present
age was fabricated to taint the credit of Ralegh as a virtuous husband. Probably the epistle
was innocently concocted as a literary exercise by an admirer, who wished to explain or apologise
for his temporary loss of self-control.

[Sidenote: Reasons for Silence.]

Notwithstanding a fire and indignation, occasionally approaching grandeur, which, it must be
admitted, raise another perplexing question, who, if not Ralegh, had the wit to pen the epistle,
it seems necessary to surrender the letter. But it is too great a leap from repudiation of
it to the disbelief, first insinuated by Mr. Tytler, and more boldly and absolutely enunciated
by Mr. Dixon, in the attempt itself at suicide. Their theory is that the whole was an invention
of Ralegh's enemies. It may be admitted that the stab, like the letter, has its difficulties.
If he tried to kill himself, it is strange that a practised swordsman should not have succeeded.
Whether he meant death or not, the reserve of the Crown advocates at Winchester is equally
mysterious. They were, it might have been thought, sure to dwell upon the act in the one case
as contemptible, in the other as presumptive proof of a sense of guilt. The latter is the obvious
way in which it would strike the mind. Sir Toby Matthew, son of the Bishop who had lately ejected
Ralegh from his London house, described it as 'a guilty blow.' Two centuries later, it suggested
to Hallam, 'a presumption of consciousness that something could be proved against him.' Why
did Ralegh's contemporary and official adversaries not press the presumption home, if they
could? On the other side, there is the yet weightier evidence of Ralegh's own conduct. He and
his wife and friends must have heard the rumour, and their tongues were not tied. Whatever
reasons counsel and judges had for reticence, the town had none. If Ralegh could have contradicted
the discreditable tale, it is, as in the case of an earlier scandal, inconceivable that he
should not. The explanation of his absolute silence, and the partial, not entire, silence of
his adversaries, is that he was ashamed of his despair, and they were ashamed of having brought
him to it. Cecil, after the trial, referred to the matter, after the fashion of Matthew and
of Hallam, as 'suspicious.' At the time of the occurrence he mentioned it to Sir Thomas Parry
in a tone more of apology. He appeared to be afraid European opinion might imagine that Ralegh
had been driven mad by merciless treatment. Had death ensued, a worse suspicion, however in
this instance unjust, was to be feared. Cecil would remember that there had been Tower suicides
before, and that they had been interpreted as evidence rather against the gaolers than the
prisoners.

[Sidenote: Improbability of Ralegh's Complicity.]

For a moment it seemed as if Ralegh had been superfluously mistrustful of English justice.
A mass of tremendous charges had been rolled together. To Waad's hopeful fancy they appeared,
he told Cecil, to have gravely implicated Ralegh, as well as Cobham. Investigated with a view
to a positive arraignment, the pile broke up and evaporated. Watson's and Brooke's stories
proved as unsubstantial as the astonishing romance adopted by grave de Thou. According to the
French annalist, Ralegh, in disgust at the loss of his Captaincy of the Guard, had joined in
a plot to kill the King, started by a band of Englishmen incensed at the Scottish irruption.
He had accepted the post of assassin. But his sister's report of his agitation, of which she
misapprehended the cause, induced inquiry. Arrested, he confessed the whole to James, and bought
his life by the betrayal of Grey, Cobham, and Markham. Silly as is that tale, there was almost
a more obvious dearth of motive for the prominent part assigned to him in the most circumstantial
of the extorted depositions. Evidence was given that the other conspirators had agreed upon
the apportionment among themselves of the high offices of State. No one testified that any
had been reserved for the most competent, the most distinguished, and the most ambitious of
the company. Ralegh's sole reward for the alleged terrible risk was, by Waad's report of Brooke's
and Watson's admissions, to be some such sum of eight or ten thousand crowns as was to be offered
to Cecil and Northumberland, who incurred no danger.

Soon it must have become apparent that success in a prosecution of Ralegh depended solely on
the plausibility and consistency of Cobham's accusations. They were peculiarly deficient in
those qualities. Ralegh has recorded that Cobham's remorse for the evil wrought by his charges
of July 20 commenced within the building in which they had been uttered. At any rate, on the
29th he retracted them more or less completely. By a letter of that date, addressed to the
Lords of the Council, he admitted he had pressed Arenberg for four or five hundred thousand
crowns, though nothing was decided about their application. He had expected, he said, a general
discontentment, and the money was to be expended as occasion offered. At his oral examination
on the same day he is stated by Cecil, in a letter to Parry, to have 'cleared Sir Walter in
most things, and to have taken all the burden to himself.' It may be inferred from an allusion
by him in a letter that some of the Lords who had been interrogating him allowed their indignation
at his apparent calumnies against Ralegh to be perceptible. The result was a growing impression
that the proceedings against Ralegh would have to be abandoned. Lord Grey, an austere Protestant,
and Sir Griffin Markham, a Catholic, already, it was rumoured, had denied that he had been
a conspirator. They had affirmed they would have given up their project upon any suspicion
that he was mixed up with it. Now Cobham also was become a broken reed. M. de Beaumont wrote
to King Henry that the Lords found it difficult in consequence to sustain Ralegh's prosecution.
'God forgive Sir Walter Ralegh,' Cobham had exclaimed in August to Sir John Peyton's son; 'he
hath accused me; but I cannot accuse him.'

[Sidenote: Cobham's Remorse.]

[Sidenote: Written Retractations.]

Cobham's awakened sense of justice prompted him in the autumn to a step which might have been
decisive. Peyton was no longer at the Tower. Ralegh's guilt had so far been presumed, as early
as August, that his patent as Governor of Jersey had been declared forfeited through his grievous
treason intended against the King. The office was conferred on Peyton, in some measure, perhaps,
that he might be removed from the charge of Ralegh. The current belief was that his preferment
was disgrace for connivance at communications between him and Cobham. To his successor, Sir
George Harvey, Cobham wrote on October 24, desiring the grant of facilities to him to address
the Council on Ralegh's behalf: 'Mr. Lieutenant, If that I may write unto the Lords I would,
touching Sir Walter Ralegh; besides my letter to my Lord Cecil; God is my witness, it doth
touch my conscience. As you shall send me word so I will do, that my letter may be ready against
your son's going. I would very fain have the words that the Lords used of my barbarousness
in accusing him falsely.' Harvey received this brief and not very coherent, but significant,
epistle, and locked the request up in his own bosom. He did worse. From the language of his
tardy explanation to Cecil it is plain that he effectually discouraged Cobham's disposition
to be Ralegh's apologist to the Council. He underrated, however, Ralegh's energy and dexterity.
Cecil imagined that Ralegh had solicited from Cobham the original retractation. Messages, he
suspected, had passed between the two in which Ralegh had 'expostulated Cobham's unkind using
of him.' The correctness of his conjecture for the past is unknown. It was true of the present.
Ralegh managed to have a letter, inclosed in, or fastened to, an apple, thrown, in November,
four nights before they came to Winchester, into Cobham's window in Wardrobe tower. At the
time the Lieutenant was at supper. In it he entreated Cobham to do him justice by his answer,
and to signify to him that he had wronged him in his accusation. He added: 'Do not, as my Lord
of Essex did, take heed of a preacher. By his persuasion he confessed, and so made himself
guilty.' Cobham, though later he forgot the fact, appears to have duly replied in a letter,
which was pushed under Ralegh's door. In it he admitted the wrong he had done to Ralegh. The
language was not distinct enough. It was 'not to my contenting,' as afterwards said Ralegh,
who wrote again. He did not ask for another written confession. Instead, he besought Cobham
to declare his innocence when he should himself be arraigned. Thereupon Cobham sent a letter
described by Ralegh as 'very good,' a complete and solemn justification, of which Howell in
his State Trials adopts the following transcript: 'Seeing myself so near my end, for the discharge
of my own conscience, and freeing myself from your blood, which else will cry vengeance against
me, I protest upon my salvation I never practised with Spain by your procurement. God so comfort
me in this my affliction, as you are a true subject for anything that I know. I will say, as
Daniel, Purus sum a sanguine hujus. So God have mercy upon my soul as I know no treason by
you.' According to another version, differing in language, not in tenor, the letter ran: 'To
free myself from the cry of blood, I protest upon my soul, and before God and His angels, I
never had conference with you in any treason, nor was ever moved by you to the things I heretofore
accused you of; and, for anything I know, you are as innocent and as clear from any treasons
against the King as is any subject living. And God so deal with me and have mercy upon my soul,
as this is true.' Ralegh seems to have kept to himself the knowledge of the existence of this
letter for the present, as Sir George Harvey, with less excuse, concealed the fact of Cobham's
prayer to himself.

[Sidenote: Sir George Harvey's Disclosure.]

The correspondence was arranged partly through Edward Cottrell, a Tower servant who waited
upon Ralegh. Partly it was through the Lieutenant's son, George, whom Ralegh had won over,
as he had won over Sir John Peyton's son, John. It was on account of the discovery by the Council,
through Ralegh's production at the trial of Cobham's letter to him, of George Harvey's mediation,
and of the youth's imprisonment for it, that on December 17, several weeks after the end of
the trial, at which it might have benefited Ralegh, the Lieutenant gave Cecil the letter of
October 24. In the confidence that the infraction of discipline by his son, as well as by his
two prisoners, would be extenuated by his own confession of an excess of official zeal, he
acknowledged his suppression of the October letter. Incidentally he testified to the sincerity
of Cobham's remorse. Cobham's 'great desire to justify Sir Walter,' he admitted to Cecil, 'having
been by me then stopped, he diverted it, as I conceive, and it is very likely, unto Sir Walter
himself.' In this penitent mood Cobham had confessed his misdeeds to others besides. He is
reported to have told the vicar of Cobham parish that Ralegh 'had done him no hurt, but he
had done Ralegh a great deal.' At last Ralegh might think that Cobham had ceased to be his
accuser. Prepared as he was for his companion's 'fashion of uttering things easily,' he could
scarcely have anticipated the layers of retractation still latent in that voluminous repository.

[Sidenote: Animosity of the Howards.]

His trust in the return of Cobham's veracity would not blind him to the peril he continued
to incur from the 'cruelty' of the law of treason; from its willingness, in jealousy for the
sovereign's safety, to have an innocent scapegoat rather than no example. He knew that the
people took his guilt for granted, and that a jury would reflect popular opinion. He could
look for no real help in any quarter. To honest, but unimaginative, politicians, he was an
enigma and a trouble with his ideas. They simply wished him out of the way. He was sure of
the hatred of the new men, 'very honourable men,' like the Tissaphernes of his History, 'if
honour may be valued by greatness and place in Court.' He could calculate on no benevolence
from the old courtiers. His claims of equality had always been an offence to the ancient nobility,
which held itself entitled to precedence in glory as in its rewards. One from whom better things
were to have been expected, the Lord Admiral, though he did not actively join in the prosecution,
had his personal reasons for rejoicing in the downfall of a sharp censor of his naval administration.
Between him and the Howard interest in general there had been frequent feuds, and they were
opposed on many important questions. Lord Henry was not the only Howard who bore him ill-will,
though the rest were not equally malignant.

[Sidenote: Cecil's Coldness.]

Henry Howard's confederate in the Scottish intrigues, Robert Cecil, had no family grievances
to avenge. If he once feared Ralegh's rivalry, he could fear it no more. It is very difficult
now, as before, to believe that he entertained sentiments of positive animosity or vindictiveness
against Ralegh. Canon Kingsley's description of him as one of the most 'accomplished villains
in history,' as the archplotter, who had managed the whole conspiracy against Ralegh, though
Ralegh knew nothing of it till after the trial, is extravagant. Even Hallam's reference to
'the hostility of Cecil, so insidious and implacable,' seems exaggerated and unjust. The Minister
was conscious of no malice. He took no pleasure in the present prosecution. But moral cowardice
and incapacity to dispense with power now, as formerly, explain an attitude, which, it must
be admitted, is hardly to be distinguished from that of an inveterate enemy. He could not afford,
having, after a struggle, clambered on board the new ship of State, to identify himself with
wrecked comrades known to be distasteful to his present master. It was convenient for him to
assume an air of reluctant conviction that his friend was guilty, and that the only question
was whether sufficient evidence could be collected to prove it judicially. On October 3 he
wrote that Cobham's original accusation was 'so well fortified with other demonstrative circumstances,
and the retractation so blemished by the discovery of the intelligence which they had, as few
men can conceive Sir Walter Ralegh's denial comes from a clear heart.' He who knew well the
habits of judges and juries in trials for treason, affected to think Ralegh could desire no
fairer opportunity. 'Always,' he wrote in October to Winwood, 'he shall be left to the law,
which is the right all men are born to.' His elaborate statements of the charges and proceedings
to Parry, which were intended for circulation through Europe, convey the same impression of
willingness to warp facts under cover of a cold concern for nothing but the truth. He did not
deceive foreigners. M. de Beaumont, whose diplomatic interest it was to abet a prosecution
which implicated Spain, spoke of him, in language already quoted, as undertaking the affair
with so much warmth that it was said he acted more from interest and passion than for the good
of the kingdom. He did not deceive unbiassed Englishmen. Harington wrote in 1603: 'I doubt
the dice not fairly thrown, if Ralegh's life be the losing stake.' He has not deceived posterity.

To the new Court, its head, and his Scotch favourites, Ralegh necessarily was an object of
aversion. He was not the less odious that he was incomprehensible. For years he and his designs
had been subjects of suspicion and dread at Holyrood. Now, when he was no longer directly dangerous,
he was an obstruction and a perplexity. In spite of the current charges against him, he represented
hatred of Spain, with which James was eager to be on terms of amity. He represented the spirit
of national unrest and adventurousness, which James abhorred. The obstinate calumny of his
scepticism served as a pretext to the King's conscience for the unworthier instinct of personal
dislike. His wisdom, learning, and wit were no passports to the favour of the one privileged
Solomon of these isles.

[Sidenote: Compensations for Ralegh's Sufferings.]

He understood all he had to face. Vehemently as he fretted and complained, he was equal to
the ordeal. He may be said to have been happy in undergoing it. Unless for it, neither his
contemporaries nor posterity could have fully comprehended the scope and strength of his character.
Unversed in law, he was more than a match for the incomparable legal learning of Coke and for
his docile bench of judges. His trial, which is the opprobrium of forensic and judicial annals,
makes a bright page in national history for the unique personality it reveals, with all its
wealth of subtlety, courage, and versatility. Figures of purer metal have often stood in the
dock, with as small chance of safety. Ralegh was a compound of gold, silver, iron, and clay.
The trial, and all its circumstances, brought into conspicuous relief the diversity which is
no less the wonder of the character than it is of the career. The Ralegh who has stamped himself
upon English history, who has fascinated English imagination, is not so much the favourite
of Elizabeth, the soldier and sailor; it is the baited prey of Coke and Popham, the browbeaten
convict of Winchester, the attainted prisoner of the Tower. Against the Court of James and
its obsequious lawyers he was struggling for bare life, for no sublime cause, for no impersonal
ideal. Yet so high was his spirit, and his bearing so undaunted, that he has ever appeared
to subsequent generations a martyr on the altar of English liberties.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE TRIAL (November 17).

[Sidenote: The Indictment.]

On September 21 Ralegh had been indicted at Staines for having, with Cobham and Brooke, compassed
in the Parish of St. Martin in the Fields to deprive the King of his crown, to alter the true
religion, and to levy war. The indictment alleged that Cobham had discoursed with him on the
means of raising Arabella Stuart to the crown; that Cobham had treated with Arenberg for 600,000
crowns from the King of Spain, and had meant to go to Spain in quest of support for Arabella.
It alleged that Ralegh and Cobham had agreed Arabella should by letter promise the Archduke
of Austria, the King of Spain, and the Duke of Savoy, to maintain a firm truce with Spain,
to tolerate Papistry, and be guided by the three princes in her marriage. It alleged the publication
and delivery by Ralegh to Cobham of a book traitorously devised against the King's title to
the crown. Finally, it alleged that Cobham had agreed, when he should have received the money
from Arenberg, to deliver eight or ten thousand crowns to Ralegh to enable him the better to
effect the intended treasons. Jurors were summoned in September for the trial of this indictment.
But for some reason the hearing was deferred till November.

[Sidenote: Mob Judgments.]

The plague raging in London and the neighbourhood may account for the delay. Pym relates in
his Diary that it killed 2000 a week. The Tower was reported in September, 1603, to be infected.
The King's Bench kept the next term at Winchester. So to Winchester their respective custodians
conveyed Brooke, Sir Griffin Markham, Sir Edward Parham, who finally was acquitted, Brooksby,
Copley, Watson, Clarke, Cobham, and Grey. They were escorted by under-wardens of the Tower,
the Keeper of the Westminster Gate-house, and fifty light horse. Ralegh set out on November
10 in his own coach, under the charge of Sir Robert Mansel and Sir William Waad. Waad wrote
to Cecil that he found his prisoner much altered. At Wimbledon a group of friends and relatives
had assembled to greet him as he passed. Generally he encountered none but looks of hatred.
Precautions had to be taken to steal the planter of Virginia, the hero of Cadiz, the wit and
poet, the splendid gentleman, the lavish patron, from the curs of London, without outrage,
or murder. It was 'hob or nob,' writes Waad to Cecil, whether or not Ralegh 'should have been
brought alive through such multitudes of unruly people as did exclaim against him.' He adds,
that it would hardly have been believed the plague was hot in London in presence of such a
mob. Watches had to be set through all the streets, both in London and the suburbs. 'If one
hare-brain fellow amongst so great a multitude had begun to set upon him, as they were near
to do it, no entreaty or means could have prevailed; the fury and tumult of the people was
so great.' Tobacco-pipes, stones, and mud were, wrote Cecil's secretary, Mr. Michael Hickes,
to Lord Shrewsbury, thrown by the rabble, both in London and in other towns on the road. Ralegh
is stated to have scorned these proofs of the aversion of base and rascal people. Mr. Macvey
Napier, in his thoughtful essay, attributes to him 'a total want of sympathy with, if not a
dislike of, the lower orders.' His disgust, perhaps, was rather evoked by the want of discrimination
in all masses. He was habitually good to his dependents, and was beloved by them. A multitude,
whatever the rank of its constituents, he regarded as 'dogs who always bark at those they know
not.' He had never flattered a mob. He did not now cower before it. To manifestations of popular
odium his nature rose, as to every peremptory call upon his powers. He foresaw that posterity
would understand him, and would right him.

[Sidenote: Chief Justice Popham.]

[Sidenote: The Jury.]

Two days were taken to reach Bagshot, and three more to traverse the remaining thirty miles
to Winchester. Ralegh and others of the accused were lodged in the Royal Castle of Winchester,
built by Bishop Henry, Stephen's brother. A King's Bench Court had been fitted up in Wolvesey
Castle, the old episcopal palace, now a ruin. There the trial opened on November 17. Sir John
Popham was Lord Chief Justice of England. He was not prepossessing in appearance, 'a huge,
heavy, ugly man,' and he had an uncouth history. As a child he had been stolen by gipsies.
In early manhood he was a notorious gamester and reveller. He took purses, it is stoutly affirmed,
on Shooter's Hill, when he was a barrister, and thirty years of age. Then he reformed his morals,
read law, and entered the House of Commons. In 1581 he was elected Speaker, and in 1592 was
appointed Chief Justice. Essex had imprisoned him in Essex House on the day of the rising,
but protected his life from his crazy followers. He had the generosity to requite the favour
by venturing to advise the Queen to grant a pardon. He amassed a vast estate, part of it being
Littlecote, which he was fabled to have wrested, together with an hereditary curse, from a
murderer, Sir Richard Dayrell. With Popham, Chief Justice Anderson, and Justices Gawdy and
Warburton, there sat as Commissioners of Oyer and Terminer, Lord Thomas Howard, since July
Earl of Suffolk and Lord Chamberlain, Charles Blount, Lord Mountjoy and Earl of Devonshire,
Lord Henry Howard, Robert Cecil, now Lord Cecil, Lord Wotton, Vice-Chamberlain Sir John Stanhope,
and Sir William Waad. That the King, with his personal knowledge of Henry Howard's fierce hatred
of Ralegh, as evinced in the whole private correspondence with Holyrood, should have appointed
him a judge was an outrage upon decency. Attorney-General Coke, Serjeant Hele, who had been
Ralegh's counsel against Meere, and Serjeant Phillips, prosecuted. The law allowed no counsel
to prisoners. Sir Michael Stanhope, Sir Edward Darcy, Ralegh's neighbour in Durham House, and
Sir William Killigrew, had been, it was rumoured, on the jury panel, but were 'changed overnight,
being found not for their turn.' The report of a sudden modification in the list is not necessarily
untrue, though the jury, it is said, was a Middlesex jury, and had been ordered long before
to attend at Winchester. Other Middlesex men, of whom many were at Winchester, may have been
substituted. At any rate, Ralegh did not except to any names. 'I know,' said he, 'none of them.
They are all Christians and honest gentlemen.' Sir Thomas, or John, Fowler was chosen foreman.

Ralegh asked leave to answer the points particularly as they were delivered, on account of
his failing memory and sickness. Coke objected to having the King's evidence dismembered, 'whereby
it might lose much of its grace and vigour.' Popham was more considerate. He promised to let
Ralegh, after the King's counsel should have produced all the evidence, answer particularly
what he would. Hele opened. I cull a few flowers of his eloquence and logic: 'You have heard
of Ralegh's bloody attempt to kill the King, in whom consists all our happiness, and the true
use of the Gospel, and his royal children, poor babes that never gave offence. Since the Conquest
there was never the like treason. But out of whose head came it? Out of Ralegh's. Cobham said
to Brooke: "It will never be well in England till the King and his cubs are taken away." It
appears that Cobham took Ralegh to be either a god or an idol. Bred in England, Cobham hath
no experience abroad. But Ralegh is a man of great wit, military, and a swordsman. Now, whether
these things were bred in a hollow tree, I leave to them to speak of who can speak far better
than myself.'

[Sidenote: The Main, and the Bye.]

He meant Sir Edward Coke, who then addressed the Court. He started gently: 'We carry a just
mind, to condemn no man but upon plain evidence.' Thence he proceeded: 'Here is mischief, mischief
in summo gradu, exorbitant mischief!' He first explained 'the treason of the Bye.' That was
the alleged plot of Grey, Brooke, and Markham to surprise the King, and carry him to the Tower.
Ralegh reminded the jury that he was not charged with the Bye. 'No,' retorted Coke, but 'all
these treasons, though they consisted of several points, closed in together; like Samson's
foxes, which were joined in the tails, though the heads were severed.' He anticipated the objection
that the Crown had but one witness, Cobham. It had, he argued, more than two witnesses: 'When
a man by his accusation of another shall by the same accusation also condemn himself, and make
himself liable to the same punishment, this is by law more forcible than many witnesses, and
is as the inquest of twelve men. For the law presumes that a man will not accuse himself in
order to accuse another.' That is, Coke chose to confuse an argument for the sufficiency of
a man's evidence of his own guilt with its cogency as evidence of another's. After this, he
declaimed upon the horror of the treason in the present case. 'To take away the fox and his
cubs! To whom, Sir Walter, did you bear malice? To the royal children?' Ralegh protested: 'What
is the treason of Markham and the priests to me?' Coke burst forth: 'I will then come close
to you. I will prove you to be the most notorious traitor that ever came to the bar. You, indeed,
are upon the Main; but you followed them of the Bye in imitation.' Ralegh asked for proof.
'Nay,' cried Coke, 'I will prove all. Your intent was to set up the Lady Arabella, and to depose
our rightful King, the lineal descendant of Edward IV.' Coke, it will be seen, did not choose
to trace the Stuarts to Henry VII. He treated the Tudors as interlopers. Ralegh was both. Ralegh
and Cobham both were discontented, and Cobham's discontent grew by Ralegh. Such was Ralegh's
machiavellian policy that he would never confer with but one at once. He would talk with none
but Cobham; 'because, saith he, one witness can never condemn me.'

[Sidenote: Master Attorney's zeal.]

Next, Coke turned to the communications between Ralegh and Cobham in the Tower. Whether I live
or die, I shall stand as true a subject as ever the King hath. You may call me a traitor at
your pleasure; yet it becomes not a man of quality or virtue to do so. But I take comfort in
it; it is all that you can do; for I do not yet hear that you charge me with any treason.'
The Lord Chief Justice interposed: 'Sir Walter Ralegh, Master Attorney speaks out of the zeal
of his duty for the service of the King, and you for your life; be patient on both sides.'
It is hard to see how Ralegh had shown impatience. Some impatience he manifested on the reading
of Cobham's declaration of July 20. 'Cobham,' said he, 'is not such a babe as you make him.
He hath dispositions of such violence which his best friends could never temper.' He was not
of a nature to be easily persuaded by Ralegh. Assuredly Ralegh was not likely to 'conspire
with a man that hath neither love nor following,' against a vigorous and youthful King, in
reliance on a State so impoverished and weak as Spain, and so detested by himself. He ridiculed
the notion that King Philip either could or would freely disburse 600,000 crowns on the mere
word of Cobham. Elizabeth's own Londoners did not lend to her without lands in pawn. Yet more
absurd was the supposition that Ralegh was in the plot. Thrice had he served against Spain
at sea. Against Spain he had expended, of his own property, 40,000 marks. 'Spanish as you term
me, I had at this time writ a treatise to the King's Majesty of the present state of Spain,
and reasons against the peace.'

[Sidenote: Call for Cobham.]

When the first or second examination of Cobham was cited, Popham offered himself practically
as a witness. He had heard Cobham say of Ralegh, as he signed his deposition: 'That wretch!
That traitor Ralegh!' 'And surely,' added the Chief Justice, 'his countenance and action much
satisfied me that what he had confessed was true, and that he surely thought Sir Walter had
betrayed him.' Upon this Ralegh demanded to have his accuser, who was under the same roof,
brought in, and examined face to face. Long before, and equally in vain, had his father-in-law,
Sir Nicholas Throckmorton, called, as Sir Michael Foster mentions, for the witnesses against
him 'to be brought face to face upon the trial.' Ralegh cited 1 Edward VI, that no man shall
be condemned of treason, unless he be accused by two lawful accusers. He referred also to 1
and 2 Phil. and Mary, which ordained that an accuser of another of treason shall, if living
and in the realm, be brought forth in person before the party arraigned, if he require it.
The Canon of God itself in Deuteronomy, he urged, requires two witnesses. 'I beseech you then,
my Lords, let Cobham be sent for. Let him be charged upon his soul, upon his allegiance to
the King; and if he will then maintain his accusation to my face, I will confess myself guilty.'
Popham's answer was: 'This thing cannot be granted; for then a number of treasons should flourish.
The accuser may be drawn by practice while he is in prison.' Again and again Ralegh called
for Cobham. Popham objected that he might prevaricate in order to procure the acquittal of
his 'old friend.' 'To absolve me,' cried Ralegh sarcastically, 'me, the infuser of these treasons!
Me, the cause of all his miseries, and the destruction of his house!' Coke asserted: 'He is
a party and cannot come. The law is against it.' 'It is a toy to tell me of law,' was the reply,
'I defy law. I stand on the facts.' At one moment his passionate appeal seemed to have awed
the Court into justice. Cecil asked if he would really abide by Cobham's words. 'Yes, in a
main point.' 'If he say you have been the instigator of him to deal with the Spanish King,
had not the Council cause to draw you hither?' asked Cecil. 'I put myself on it,' answered
Ralegh. 'Then, call to God, Sir Walter,' said Cecil; 'and prepare yourself; for I verily believe
my Lord will prove it.' Cecil knew of Cobham's recent reiteration of his charge, and supposed
he could be trusted to insist upon it in Court. The Lords Commissioners, on consultation, doubted
this, and finally decided to keep him back, and rely upon his letter.

[Sidenote: Two Witnesses.]

[Sidenote: A Spider of Hell.]

The trial pursued its course. Popham laid it down that 1 Edw. VI. c. 12, was repealed by 1
and 2 Phil. and Mary. Mr. Justice Gawdy corroborated this, uttering the solitary judicial dictum
recorded of him, that 'the statute of Edward had been found inconvenient, and had therefore
been repealed.' The provision cited by Ralegh from Philip and Mary's repealing statute, Popham
ruled, applied solely to the specific treasons it mentioned. The Act ordained that the trial
of treasons in general should follow common law procedure, as before the reign of Edward VI.
But by common law one witness was sufficient. The confession of confederates was full proof,
even though not subscribed, if it were attested by credible witnesses. Indeed, remarked Popham,
echoing Coke, 'of all other proofs the accusation of one, who by his confession first accuseth
himself, is the strongest. It hath the force of a verdict of twelve men.' Coke himself later,
when, as Mr. Justice Michael Foster expresses it, 'his disgrace at Court had given him leisure
for cool reflection,' intimated in his Institutes that the statute of Edward the Sixth had
not been repealed, and that the obligation, as specified by it, to produce two witnesses to
charges of treason remained in force. That was not the view of Elizabethan Judges. At the trial
of the Duke of Norfolk it was laid down that the necessity no longer existed. In fairness it
must be admitted that Popham and his brethren were bound to assume the law had then been correctly
stated. They were equally bound by a series of precedents to allow written depositions to be
treated as valid testimony. Only by the assent of counsel for the Crown was the oral examination
of witnesses permitted. Ralegh did not struggle against the ruling. He could but plead, 'though,
by the rigour and severity of the law, this may be sufficient evidence without producing the
witness, yet, your Lordships, as ministers of the King, are bound to administer the law in
equity.' 'No,' replied Popham: 'equity must proceed from the King; you can have only justice
from us.' Coke triumphantly exclaimed: 'This dilemma of yours about two witnesses led you into
treason.' Cobham's letter of July 29 to the Council about the money asked of Arenberg was read.
In it occurred the expression: 'We did expect the general discontentment.' Coke's comment was:
'The peace pretended by Sir Walter Ralegh is merely jargon; for it is clear the money was for
discontented persons. Now Ralegh was to have part of the money; therefore, he was a discontented
person, and, therefore, a traitor.' That was the logic thought good enough at a trial for treason.
So, to Ralegh's indignant remonstrance at the use of the evidence of 'hellish spiders,' like
Clarke and Watson, concerning 'the King and his cubs' as evidence against him, Coke answered:
'Thou hast a Spanish heart, and thyself art a spider of hell; for thou confessest the King
to be a most sweet and gracious Prince, and yet thou hast conspired against him.' With equal
relevancy he cited from the depositions: 'Brooke thinketh the project for the murder of the
King was infused by Ralegh into his brother's head.' For Coke this was valid evidence against
Ralegh.

[Sidenote: Serjeant Phillips.]

On rolled the muddy stream of inconsequential testimony, and of reasoning to match; the 'irregular
ramble,' as Sir John Hawles has termed it. Snagge's book was discussed; how Ralegh borrowed
it from Burleigh's library; and how Cobham had it, whether by gift from Ralegh, or by borrowing
it when Ralegh was asleep. To Ralegh the whole appeared the triviality it was. 'It is well
known,' said he, 'that there came out nothing in those times but I had it. I believe they will
find in my house almost all the libels writ against the late Queen.' As utterly irrelevant
against him was the introduction of Arabella Stuart to deny her knowledge of any plots in her
pretended interest. Worse than irrelevant was pilot Dyer's gossip with a gentleman at Lisbon,
to whom Dyer had observed that the King of England was shortly to be crowned. 'Nay,' saith
the Portugal, 'that shall never be; for his throat will be cut by Don Ralegh and Don Cobham
before he be crowned.' 'What will you infer upon that?' asked Ralegh. 'That your treason hath
wings,' replied Coke. Hereupon Serjeant Phillips relieved Coke, and almost outdid him. Phillips
argued that the object of procuring money was to raise up tumults in Scotland, and to take
the lives of his Majesty and his issue. For those purposes a treasonable book against the King's
right to the Crown was 'divulged.' Commencing with the unproved allegation that 'Sir Walter
Ralegh confesseth my Lord Cobham guilty of all these treasons,' Phillips proceeded: 'The question
is, whether Ralegh be guilty, as joining with or instigating him. If Lord Cobham's accusation
be true, he is guilty. If not, he is clear. Ralegh hath no answer. Of as much wit as the wit
of man can devise, he useth his bare denial. A denial by the defendant must not move the jury.'
Nothing could be more crushing than the calm rejoinder: 'You have not proved any one thing
by direct proofs, but all by circumstances. I appeal to God and the King on this point whether
Cobham's accusation be sufficient to condemn me.'

[Sidenote: Cobham's New Statement.]

So weak was the case for the prosecution that to this stage, by the admission of a reporter
of the trial, the result was very doubtful. Coke, however, with the cognizance, it may be presumed,
of the Court, had prepared a dramatic surprise. Cobham, the day before, had written or signed
a repetition of his charge. Ralegh's account of the transaction at the trial was that Lady
Kildare, Lady Ralegh's enemy, had persuaded Cobham to accuse Ralegh, as the sole way of saving
his own life. A letter from her to him goes some length towards confirming the allegation.
She writes: 'Help yourself, if it may be. I say no more; but draw not the weight of others'
burdens.' According to another, and not very likely, story, told by Sir Anthony Welldon in
his Court of King James, Cobham subsequently stated that Waad had induced him by a trick to
sign his name on a blank page, which afterwards was thus filled in. The paper alleged a request
by Ralegh to obtain for him a pension of £1500 for intelligence. 'But,' it ambiguously proceeded,
'upon this motion for £1500 per annum for intelligence I never dealt with Count Arenberg.'
'Now,' added the writer, as if it were a conclusion from premisses, 'as by this may appear
to your Lordships, he hath been the original cause of my ruin. For, but by his instigation,
I had never dealt with Count Arenberg. And so hath he been the only cause of my discontentment;
I never coming from the Count, or Court, but still he filled and possessed me with new causes
of discontentments.' The reading of the statement was set in a more than usually decorated
framework of Coke's amenities. Ralegh throughout the trial had been for the King's Attorney
an 'odious fellow;' the 'most vile and execrable traitor.' He had been stigmatized as 'hateful
to all the realm for his pride,' to which Ralegh had retorted: 'It will go near to prove a
measuring cast, Mr. Attorney, between you and me.' With Cobham's deposition in his hand, Coke
cried: 'I will lay thee on thy back for the confidentest traitor that ever came to a bar.'
When Cecil prayed him not to be so impatient, Coke flew out: 'If I may not be patiently heard,
you will encourage traitors.' Sulkily down he sat, and would speak no more till the Commissioners
entreated him to go on. Resuming, he criticized Ralegh's letter to Cobham in the Tower, which
was next read: 'O damnable Atheist! He hath learned some text of Scripture to serve his own
purpose. Essex died the child of God. Thou wast by.

     Et lupus et turpes instant morientibus ursae.'

Being asked what he said of Cobham's statement to the Lords, 'I say,' answered Ralegh, 'that
Cobham is a base, dishonourable, poor soul!' 'Is he base?' retorted Coke. 'I return it into
thy throat on his behalf. But for thee he had been a good subject.'

[Sidenote: Exaggeration of its Importance.]

The document did not amount to a confession by Cobham even of his own treason. At highest it
was evidence against him of negotiations with Count Arenberg which might have been 'warrantable,'
and of discontent which need not have been in the least criminal. If such secondary testimony
had been legal when its author was available as a witness, and if its statements had been incontrovertible,
it ought to have been held worthless against Ralegh. Nothing, so far as appears even from the
paper, was ever done towards the gratification of the desire for a foreign pension imputed
to him. Within limits, Cobham's allegation that Ralegh had fomented his anger against the new
state of things is plausible enough. It would be strange if the two disgraced favourites did
not at their frequent meetings club and inflame their mutual pique. Obviously, apart from acts,
of which there was no evidence, no irritation by Ralegh, however envenomed, as it was not shown
to have been, of Cobham's discontent, could in him have been treason. Judged by all sound laws
of evidence, the testimony of the statement was as flimsy as all the rest of the proofs. To
attach importance to it was a burlesque of justice. It was treated as demonstrative by a packed
Bench, a Bar hungering for place, and a faint-hearted jury, anxious above all things to vindicate
authority, and not caring to discriminate among the prisoners on the charges against them.
To the whole court it came like a godsend. The author of the fullest report, that which is
preserved in the Harleian MSS., expresses the sentiment of Jacobean lawyers: 'This confession
gave a great satisfaction, and cleared all the former evidence, which before stood very doubtful.'

[Sidenote: The Prior Recantation.]

In the reporter's judgment it overwhelmed the defendant himself. Reasonably Ralegh 'was much
amazed.' He could not have anticipated Cobham's retractation of his retractation. He perceived
the new peril in which he was plunged by the statement that he had solicited, or been offered
by Cobham, a Spanish pension, though, as he told the King in January, 1604, so little account
had he made at the time of the conversation in which the offer was made, that he never remembered
any such thing till it was at his trial objected against him. He felt public opinion shaken.
His faith in himself was not weakened. 'By and by,' says the reporter, 'he seemed to gather
his spirits again.' Pulling out of his pocket the recantation, the second, which Cobham had
addressed to him from the Tower, and attested by his hope of salvation and God's mercy on his
soul, he insisted upon having it too read in court. Hereupon, says the reporter, 'was much
ado, Mr. Attorney alleging that the letter was politicly and cunningly urged from the Lord
Cobham,' and that the latest paper was 'simply the truth.' When Ralegh raised the natural objection
that a statement written by Cobham on the eve of his own trial might be supposed to have been
extorted in some sort by compulsion, Coke appealed to Popham to interrogate the Commissioners.
Devonshire, as their mouthpiece, declared to the jury that it was 'mere voluntary,' and had
not been written under a promise of pardon. But Cecil supported Ralegh in the demand that the
jury should have before it the earlier letter also. Coke, in a report printed in 1648 under
the name of Sir Thomas Overbury, is represented as exclaiming: 'My Lord Cecil, mar not a good
cause.' Cecil replied: 'Master Attorney, you are more peremptory than honest; you must not
come here to show me what to do.' Throughout he had been careful to blend the friend with the
judge, so far as professions of regret went. He had spoken of the former dearness between himself
and this gentleman, tied upon the knot of his virtues. He had declared that his friendship
was not extinguished, but slaked. He had vowed himself still his friend, 'excepting faults,
I call them no worse.' Now he strained that friendship to the extent of the simple justice
of undertaking the duty, 'because he only knew Cobham's hand,' of reading out the letter, which,
if the construction put by the prosecution on the other paper were correct, proved the writer
a perjured liar either in the Tower or at Winchester.

Coke need not have feared the consequences. Both judges and jurymen had comfortably made up
their minds. They were not to be moved by so slight a thing as a contradiction of Cobham in
one place by Cobham in another. So prejudiced were they that the Tower letter does not appear
to have produced any effect at all. Ralegh, at all events, could do no more. He had striven
for many hours, and was utterly exhausted. Without more words he let the jury be dismissed
to consider its verdict.

[Sidenote: The Verdict and Judgment.]

[Sidenote: Popham's Exhortation.]

In a quarter of an hour it returned into court with a verdict of guilty of high treason. Ralegh
received the decision with dignity: 'My Lords,' said he, 'the jury hath found me guilty. They
must do as they are directed. I can say nothing why judgment should not proceed. You see whereof
Cobham hath accused me. You remember his protestation that I was never guilty. I desire the
King should know the wrong I have been done to since I came hither.' Then Popham pronounced
judgment. Addressing Ralegh, he said: 'In my conscience I am persuaded Cobham hath accused
you truly. You cannot deny that you were dealt with to have a pension of £1500 a year to be
a spy for Spain; therefore, you are not so true to the King as you have protested yourself
to be.' He lamented the fall of one of 'so great parts,' who 'had showed wit enough this day,'
'who might have lived well with £3000 a year; for so I have heard your revenues to be.' Spite
and covetousness he held to have been Ralegh's temptations. Yet the King could not be blamed
for wishing to have for Captain of the Guard 'one of his own knowledge, whom he might trust,'
or for desiring no longer to burden his people with a wine monopoly for Ralegh's particular
good. Popham embellished his confused discourse, partly apologetic, and partly condemnatory,
but not intentionally brutal or malevolent, by a glance at Ralegh's reputed free-thinking.
He had been taxed, said Popham, by the world with the defence of most heathenish and blasphemous
opinions. 'You will do well,' the virtuous Chief Justice exhorted him, 'before you go out of
the world, to give satisfaction therein. Let not any devil,' or, according to the Harleian
MSS. version, 'Hariot nor any such doctor, persuade you there is no eternity in Heaven; if
you think thus, you shall find eternity in Hell fire.' Ralegh had warned Cobham against confessions.
Let him not apply the advice to himself. 'Your conceit of not confessing anything is very inhuman
and wicked. In this world is the time of confessing, that we may be absolved at the Day of
Judgment.' By way of peroration he added: 'It now comes into my mind why you may not have your
accuser face to face. When traitors see themselves must die, they think it best to see their
fellow live, that he may commit the like treason again, and so in some sort seek revenge.'
Lastly, he pronounced the savage legal sentence.

When Popham had ended Ralegh spoke a few words. He prayed that the jury might never have to
answer for its verdict. He 'only craved pardon for having concealed Lord Cobham's offer to
him, which he did through a confidence that he had diverted him from those humours.' Praying
then permission to speak to Lords Suffolk, Devonshire, Henry Howard, and Cecil, he entreated
their intercession, which they promised, Cecil with tears, that his death might be honourable
and not ignominious. He is alleged further to have requested their mediation with the King
for a pardon, or, at least, that, if Cobham too were convicted, and if the sentence were to
be carried out, Cobham might die first. The petition was not an ebullition of vindictiveness.
It had a practical purpose. On the scaffold he could say nothing for Cobham; Cobham might say
much for him. It was possible that, when nothing more was to be gained by falsehoods, his recreant
friend would clear his fame once for all. Then he quitted the hall, accompanying Sir Benjamin
Tichborne, the High Sheriff, to the prison, according to Sir Thomas Overbury, 'with admirable
erection, yet in such sort as a condemned man should.'

CHAPTER XX.

JUSTICE AND EQUITY OF THE CONVICTION.

[Sidenote: Exceptionally iniquitous.]

Students of English judicial history, with all their recollections of the strange processes
by which criminal courts in Ralegh's age leaped to a presumption of a State prisoner's guilt,
stand aghast at his conviction. Mr. Justice Foster, in his book, already cited, on The Trial
of the Rebels in Surrey in 1746, professes his inability to see how the case, excepting the
extraordinary behaviour of the King's Attorney, differed in hardship from many before it. He
is referring to the legal points ruled by the judges against Ralegh. Possibly previous prisoners
had been as ill-treated; and the fact amounts to a terrible indictment of English justice.
But one broad distinction separates this from earlier convictions. Other prisoners in general
were guilty, though their guilt may have been a form of patriotism, or may not have been logically
proved. Ralegh's guilt of the crime imputed to him was not proved at Winchester, and has never
been proved since. If to have cherished resentment for the loss of offices, to have incurred
popular odium, to be reputed superhumanly subtle, to have been the sagacious comrade of a foolish
malcontent, to have been alleged by that man, whom he was not permitted to interrogate, to
be disaffected at a time at which strangers to him happened to be plotting rebellion, to have
abstained from betraying overtures for the exertion by him of an influence he never used and
did not possess on behalf of a pacification which the sovereign was negotiating, be high treason,
then it is possible, though even then not certain, that Ralegh was a traitor. If none of these
possibilities amount to the crime of treason, then he was not.

[Sidenote: The Spanish Pension.]

[Sidenote: James and Arenberg.]

He was alleged to have listened to disclosures by Cobham of a scheme for obtaining money from
the Archduke, or the King of Spain. He was alleged to have been offered a share. He was alleged
to have asked for a pension as the price of the revelation of Court secrets. No other relevant
charges were brought. Of the evidence against him, the second or third hand hearsay depositions
of Brooke, Watson, Copley, and Clarke, like the gossip of Dyer, had no effect even upon the
Lords Commissioners and the jury. The fragments of testimony actually credited were contributed
by Cobham alone, himself the principal in the supposed transaction, who had retracted his original
statement over and over again, whom the Court refused to confront with the man he accused.
Had the allegations been ever so consistent, cogent, credible, and corroborated, they proved
nothing, except that Ralegh might, not would, have accepted foreign gold if it had been proffered
to him. Cecil accepted it for years to come, and died at once Prime Minister and pensioner
of Spain. Northumberland had recently taken a pension to furnish France with secret intelligence.
The fact does not abate the admiration of Lingard, who yet thinks it reasonable that a jury
should have convicted Ralegh on the bare suspicion of a similar offer by Spaniards to induce
him to help them towards peace. James was eager for peace. He placed the utmost faith in the
possibility of permanent amity with Spain. He was enthusiastically certain of its importance
and value to the kingdom and his dynasty. So little did he object to the agent of Ralegh's
alleged intrigue through Cobham with the Spanish Court that he never allowed a symptom of impatience
on that side to escape him. Ralegh's guilt at worst depended wholly on the reality of his partnership
in Cobham's dealings with Arenberg. In the spring of 1604, Arenberg, who had left England at
the end of the previous October, before the Winchester trials commenced, returned as the Archduke's
envoy for the negotiation of peace between Spain and this country. He went away finally in
the summer. To the Archduke who had commissioned this suspected plotter of treason James wrote
in August, 1604: 'We thank you most affectionately for the sincerity and affection you have
shown yourself to bear towards the conclusion of this peace and friendship by the choice you
have made of such worthy and eminent instruments as are our cousin the Prince Count of Arenberg
and his colleague, who, by their sufficiency, prudence, and integrity, have so conducted this
important affair that we have received therein very great satisfaction.' He had used the same
benevolent tone with respect to the Count during the Winchester proceedings. Cecil officially
informed Sir Thomas Parry that the Count had always been made by Cobham to understand that
the combinations and money were to be employed simply for the advancement of the peace. An
identical defence might be offered for Ralegh, if not for Cobham himself. But it was convenient
for James and his Court to exonerate the envoy; it was convenient for them to use the same
transaction for a deadly weapon against Ralegh. Of any care or sense of actual truthfulness
in King or counsellors throughout the whole business, not a trace can be found.

All concerned in Ralegh's trial and conviction have a heavy burden of bloodguiltiness to bear.
But the Judges were less culpable than their lay colleagues and the Crown counsel; the whole
bench of Commissioners and the Bar than the jury; the jury than the King, his Ministers, and
courtiers. Sir John Hawles, afterwards Solicitor-General, in a printed reply in 1689 to Shower's
apology, called The Magistracy and Government of England Vindicated, for Lord Russell's conviction,
censured Popham for dispensing with a second witness, and with the presence of Cobham. He argued
from the practice of a later period, that Judges who had deviated from it must have been violating
their consciences. That is unreasonable. The course taken by the Chief Justice and his brethren
conformed, as we have seen, to the legal usage of their time, however opposed to natural justice.
The fault was greater in the lay members of the Court, and in the Attorney-General, who might
undoubtedly, as representing more directly the Crown, have produced Cobham. All that the Judges
declared was that the Crown need not, not that it must not. Still more heinous was the verdict
based upon evidence which, if enough in quantity, was manifestly worthless in quality. Twelve
worthy gentlemen awarded a horrible death to a man guilty of no other offence, as they knew,
than that he had been offered a sum of Spanish money, which he denied he would have accepted,
and certainly never received. Most shameful of all was the conduct of the Government which
knew the emptiness of the entire case, yet strained every nerve to extort a conviction.

[Sidenote: Legal and Moral Innocence.]

The question of Ralegh's moral innocence is not the same as that of his legal innocence. All
writers answer the latter unanimously in his favour. On the former they are divided. Hume,
indeed, a far from partial critic, who could not sympathise with one of his 'great but ill
regulated mind,' pronounces wholly for him. He finds no proof or any circumstance to justify
the condemnation, which he roundly stigmatises as contrary to all law and equity. Historians
since Hume have commonly been willing to suppose that the Government proceeded upon some solid
ground. In Lingard's Catholic eyes, Ralegh was simply an unscrupulous flatterer of Elizabeth,
and an immoral adventurer. Not pledging his own judgment to the righteousness of the verdict,
he remarks that 'the guilt of Ralegh was no longer doubted after the solemn asseveration of
Cobham' on the scaffold. Hallam had no bias. Though he thought Ralegh 'faulty,' 'rash,' destitute
of 'discretion,' and not 'very scrupulous about the truth,' he admired him as a bright genius,
'a splendid ornament of his country,' 'the bravest and most renowned of Englishmen.' He has
declared the verdict against him contrary to law, but thinks it 'very probable that the charge
of plotting to raise Arabella to the throne was partly at least founded in truth.' Mr. Gardiner
condemns the particular accusation as 'frivolous and false,' but believes it had some basis
in his character, in his habit of 'looking down from the eminence of genius upon the acts of
lesser men.'

[Sidenote: Absence of Evidence of Guilt.]

[Sidenote: Apologies for Condemnation.]

For such support of the prosecution and verdict, qualified as it is, there is a difficulty
in perceiving any foundation, except the improbability that a Government should have conspired
to obtain the capital condemnation of an illustrious Englishman on no better testimony than
that which it vouchsafed or dared to offer. That even Cobham had engaged in plots for the deposition
of James in favour of Arabella, which the Ambassador of the Infanta, herself a Pretender, would
not have been in the least likely to further, no evidence except French hearsay from James's
Ministers exists to prove. That he may have intrigued for the exercise of illegitimate pressure
in Spanish interests upon the King, is very probable on his own admission, though 'it does
not follow,' as Ralegh writes in his History, 'that every man ought to be believed of himself
to his own prejudice.' It is not equally clear, but it is credible, that he had sounded Ralegh,
and had appealed to his constant pecuniary necessities, with a view to his engagement in the
design. Ralegh may well have suspected enough, without direct complicity, to be able, if he
had chosen, to deliver up Cobham to the Government some time before his interview with the
Council at Windsor. His omission may have been a breach of his legal duty as a loyal subject,
as his hint to Cecil of the transactions with la Renzi was a breach of perfect faithfulness
to friendship. But there is no sufficient ground for questioning his own apology, that he regarded
the scheme as the vapouring it for the most part was. Moreover, it is not impossible, or improbable,
that he may, as he stated to the Lords Commissioners, have endeavoured to dissuade Cobham from
plotting. He may have used threats for the purpose, though he did not carry them out. This
would explain Cobham's alarm, otherwise unintelligible, that Ralegh meant to inveigle him and
other agitators into Jersey, and then give them up. That he actively abetted a conspiracy,
either with Arenberg, or against James, is in itself as improbable as it is in fact unproved.
James, on his side, may have believed that Ralegh was willing to acquiesce in a treasonable
conspiracy, and to enjoy some of its fruits. In this mode the King, and Cecil also, would lull
their consciences, while they availed themselves of law for the ruin of one whom they disliked
and dreaded. They acted upon surmises, and historians have followed them. Honest-minded writers
have been ashamed to think the State could have persecuted an innocent man as it persecuted
Ralegh without other evidence than that it disclosed. They have tried to explain the incomprehensible
by the unknown. Forgetting the characters of James and his Minister, they have inferred Ralegh's
criminality from his subjection to the treatment of a criminal.

Every effort was made at the time to demonstrate his capital guilt. The efforts were continued
for thirteen years without success. As Ralegh ironically wrote in 1618, Gondomar's readiest
way of stopping the Guiana expedition would have been, had he been guilty, 'to discover the
great practices I had with his Master against the King in the first year of his Majesty's reign.'
In default of direct testimony, apologists for Ralegh's condemnation have even attempted to
plead a remark by the French Ambassador, Beaumont, to his Court before the trial that, though
there was no sufficient evidence to sustain a conviction, yet the truth was 'Cobham with Ralegh
had conducted the practices with the Archduke.' As Hallam observes, Beaumont possessed no more
information than the English Government gave out. He arrived at his conclusion against Ralegh
on the testimony of Arenberg's intercepted letters, which James had shown him. Of the correctness
of the inference from them, Lingard admits, 'we have no opportunity of judging.' That the Frenchman
would rejoice to believe a rival diplomatist had traitors for his confederates, and that they
had tampered with assassination plots, is obvious. His bias towards such a result must have
been so strong as to incapacitate him, even beyond de Thou, for a neutral scrutiny of the facts.
Inquirers since have ransacked all sources of information, official and unofficial, English,
Spanish, French, and Venetian. No higher criminality has been discovered in him than that he
may have been aware of the project of an acquaintance to influence by means of Spanish gold
the King's policy. If he were guilty of worse than this, it is a solecism in the history of
treasons that in the course of three centuries not a tittle of evidence of it should have been
unearthed.

[Sidenote: Cobham's Trial.]

Ralegh, to the last, clung to the chance of rehabilitation through Cobham. He should have understood
the man too well by this time to repose the most slender trust in his truthfulness, generosity,
or courage. Privy Councillors examined him after Ralegh's trial, and he repeated his calumnies.
On the following Friday he was tried by his peers in the County hall, the great hall of Winchester
Castle, known as Arthur's Hall from a picture of the Round Table at the east end. 'Never,'
reported Sir Dudley Carleton, afterwards Lord Dorchester, who was present at both trials, 'was
there so poor and abject a spirit.' He listened to his indictment with fear and trembling.
He confessed he had hammered in his brains imaginations of the matters charged against him,
but never had purposed to bring them to effect. He repeated in an incoherent manner his charges
against Ralegh. Ralegh, he asserted, had stirred him up to discontent, and thereby overthrown
his fortunes. Ralegh had proposed the despatch of a Spanish army to Milford Haven. Ralegh had
made himself a pensioner of Spain. As earnest of services for which he expected a salary of
1500 crowns, Ralegh had disclosed to Arenberg State deliberations at Greenwich. Ralegh had
nothing to hope from the compiler of this wonderful medley, who was willing to buy his life
by calumnies upon his friend. He had nothing to hope from the legal justice of his cause. His
only real hope was in a discovery by the Fountain of Mercy that the prosecution of him was
a mistake; that he was too precious a weapon in the royal armoury to be thrown away, or be
let rust; that though law condemned, the national conscience had acquitted him, and cancelled
his sentence. His trust, at all events, in public opinion was justified. In 1603 it was not
plain to his contemporaries that not a shadow of evidence had ever existed on which he could
justly be sent to trial. They saw no absurdity in the association of his name as a traitor
in scurrilous ballads with those of Watson and Brooke. But they had seen him in the dock. He
had compelled them to weigh the proofs against him and recognise their hollowness and inconclusiveness.
The manliness with which he had stood at bay against Coke's insolence, Cobham's perfidy, and
Cecil's damaging apologies for estrangement had brought over to him the sympathy of public
opinion. The tide of popular feeling turned, and ceased henceforth to run turbulently against him.

[Sidenote: Public Opinion.]

The Court had been densely thronged. A multitude of eye-witnesses spread through the kingdom
their own 'great admiration.' 'Never man,' writes Sir Toby Matthew, 'spoke better for himself.
So worthily, so wisely, so temperately he behaved himself that in half a day the mind of all
the company was changed from the extremest hate to the extremest pity.' His demeanour was extolled
as perfect; to the Lords humble, yet not prostrate, to the jury affable, not fawning, rather
showing love of life than fear of death, to the King's counsel patient, but not insensibly
neglecting, not yielding to imputations laid against him in words. Michael Hickes wrote to
Lord Shrewsbury that his conduct 'wrought both admiration for his good parts and pity towards
his person.' His demeanour and eloquence, Hickes heard, had elicited some tears from Mar and
Cecil. It was 'wondered that a man of his heroic spirit could be so valiant in suffering that
he was never overtaken in passion.' Carleton's account to Chamberlain was that he answered
Coke and the rest 'with that temper, wit, learning, courage, and judgment, that, save it went
with the hazard of his life, it was the happiest day that ever he spent. And so well he shifted
all advantages that were taken against him, that, were not fama malum gravius quam res, and
an ill name half hanged, in the opinion of all men he had been acquitted. In one word, never
was a man so hated and so popular in so short a time.' James wished to have an independent
account of the trial, and had commissioned two gentlemen, Roger Ashton and a Scotchman, to
report. They carried the news of the trial to the King at Wilton House. 'Never,' stated Ashton,
according to Carleton, 'man spake so well in the time past, nor would in the time to come.'
The Scotchman seems to have reported that, 'whereas, when he saw Sir Walter Ralegh first, he
was so led with the common hatred that he would have gone a hundred miles to see him hanged,
he would, ere they parted, have gone a thousand to save his life.'

[Sidenote: Legends.]

The shock inflicted upon the national instinct of fairness by the conviction of such a man,
on such evidence, and after such a defence, showed itself by legends which clustered round
the facts of the trial. 'Some of the jury,' it is related by Francis Osborn in his Memorials
on the Reign of King James, 'were, after he was cast, so far touched in conscience as to demand
of him pardon on their knees.' Coke himself was rumoured to have been astonished at the form
of the verdict. He was in a garden resting his brazen lungs and his venomous temper, when his
man announced that the jury had brought in Ralegh guilty of treason. 'Surely,' observed Coke,
'thou art mistaken; for I myself accused him but of misprision of treason.' The story, which
its narrator, in the anonymous Observations upon Sanderson's History of Queen Mary and King
James, issued in 1656, 'upon the word of a Christian received from Sir Edward Coke's own mouth,'
will appear to any reader of the trial a manifest fable. Not the less does it, like the myth
of the fraud by which Cobham's accusing Winchester deposition is alleged to have been procured,
testify to the difficulty the public experienced in digesting the judicial outrage upon reason.
Similarly must be explained the anecdote, though told by Ralegh himself to the Privy Council
after his return from Guiana, on the authority of his physician, Dr. Turner, of Sir Francis
Gawdy's death-bed lament that 'Never before had the justice of England been so depraved and
injured as in the condemnation of Sir Walter Ralegh.' Gawdy had uttered no word of protest
against the shameless misbehaviour of his Chief and the Attorney throughout the hearing. On
the contrary, his one remark was against the prisoner. If he really considered the conduct
or result of the trial iniquitous, it is a pity he was not more prompt in denouncing it. His
judicial sensitiveness needed to be awakened by a fit of apoplexy which carried him off in
1606 to his grave in the next parish, he having turned his own church at Wellington into a
dog kennel.

CHAPTER XXI.

REPRIEVE (December 10, 1603).

[Sidenote: Bathos.]

[Sidenote: Ralegh's Abasement.]

The nation was doing a great man justice, though tardily. Not even its hero's temporary self-abasement
could put it out of conceit with him. One of the many curious surprises in Ralegh's history
is the manner in which a sudden change in his demeanour seemed to give the lie to the general
admiration. Almost a worse grievance against the Court and its legal tools than their persecution
is the effect it had in humiliating and degrading him for a time. Though the proceedings had
been a travesty of justice, they had been invested hitherto with a scenic stateliness. Ralegh
had borne himself gallantly. He had kept and left the stage with unfailing dignity. The prosecution
had at least evinced the respectable earnestness of stubborn hate. At the moment after the
catastrophe the nobility, whether of persecuted greatness or of murderous vengefulness, evaporated.
Ralegh's enemies appeared to have lost their motive and plan. They seemed no longer sure why
or how they wished to wreak their rage. He, from his condemned cell, demanded justice for wronged
innocence in the accents of a detected cut-throat. To the Lords Commissioners he wrote: 'The
law is passed against me. The mercy of my Sovereign is all that remaineth for my comfort. If
I may not beg a pardon or a life, yet let me beg a time. Let me have one year to give to God
in a prison and to serve him. It is my soul that beggeth a time of the King.' He spoke of his
fear that the power of law might be greater than the power of truth. He reminded Cecil that
he was a Councillor to a merciful and just King, if ever we had any, and that the law ought
not to overrule pity, but pity the law.' 'Your Lordship,' he proceeds, 'will find that I have
been strangely practised against, and that others have their lives promised to accuse me.'
In the same November in which he had told Cecil it would be presumption for him to ask grace
directly of the King, he asked it. He assured his most dread Sovereign he was not one of the
men who were greatly discontented, and therefore the more likely to be disloyal. He protested
he had loved the King 'now twenty years'; that he had never invented treason, consented to
treason, or performed treason. He invoked mercy in the name of English law, 'who knowing her
own cruelty, and that she is wont to compound treasons out of presumptions and circumstances,
does advise the King to be misericorditer justus.' In a rather loftier strain he exclaimed,
'If the law destroy me, your Majesty shall put me out of your power, and I shall then have
none to fear, none to reverence, but the King of Kings.' But the burden throughout is the pitiful
'Send me my life.'

[Sidenote: Its motive.]

These prayers by Walter Ralegh to a most dread Sovereign, who happened to be James I, these
genuflections of spirit to a Minister who must have been suspected of malevolent jealousy,
if not of treason to ancient friendship, present a strange and sad spectacle. Excessive importance
should not be attached to the phraseology. Not a little of the apparent abjectness was matter
of style: 'What,' Ralegh himself has said, 'is the vowing of service to every man whom men
bid but good morrow other than a courteous and Court-like kind of lying?' Much must be allowed
for the fashion of the age in dealing with Princes and their Ministers. Grey, no more than
Ralegh, could resist the impulse. The Puritan Baron had bidden a magnanimous farewell to his
peers at Winchester: 'The House of the Wiltons have spent many lives in their Princes' service;
Grey cannot beg his!' Within a few days he was grovelling in gratitude for an insulting reprieve:
'As your mercy draws out my life, I cannot deny it the only object it aspires to, by unfeigned
confession and contrition to diminish my offence, and your displeasure.' Not till the Civil
War had cleared the atmosphere through which royalty was seen, was the demeanour of subjects
to the Sovereign in general conformity with the modern standard of manliness. Ralegh, the Court
favourite, the poet, was cast in a more plastic mould than Grey. The suddenness of his ruin
may well have thrown him off his balance now, as at the original explosion of the tempest in
the summer. The tendency of men endowed with genius like his to indulge in extravagances of
dejection when fortune frowns is notorious. But his long course of importunities to all possessed
of the means of helping or hindering in the years after 1603 is not to be explained either
by style, or by spasms of despair. Both their impulse and something too of an apology for them
are to be found in the basis of his character, which was tough as well as elastic. After the
shock of the plunge into the depths he braced himself to the task of rising to the surface,
and reaching shore. Life, freedom, wealth, career, were forfeited. He determined to redeem
the whole. He availed himself of the instruments at hand, though they were tarnished. He did
not scruple to soil his fingers in groping his way out of a sea of mud.

[Sidenote: Doggedness of Purpose.]

It is necessary continually to remind ourselves, when we are tempted to be incensed at his
deportment, of the mode in which he had been treated, of his consuming sense of a mission,
and his determination, little short of monomania, to return to its service. He and everybody
knew that his conviction was an act of legal violence. There was no prospect of rescue through
the machinery of the law from an overwhelming disaster which demonstrated law to be without
a conscience or sense of responsibility. As soon as the law with its automatic violence had
possession of his case, he felt himself held in a grasp not to be relaxed. He knew he must
look outside law for justice as well as mercy. It and its ministers were not intentionally
cruel. Simply their craft had assumed a scientific shape from which morality and common sense
alike were absent. A defendant had a right to evade the penalties of the most manifest guilt
by any loopholes and gaps he could discover in the works. It had the right to pursue him to
the death, whether innocent or criminal, so long as the rules of the art were observed. Its
point of honour was not to let the accused escape. Ralegh was penetrated with an acute and
indignant consciousness of the iniquity of the Court intrigue from which he suffered. He despaired
of correcting the wrong by the help of the law which had lent itself to be the agent. His struggle
was to salve the malice of law with the remorse of the Prerogative which had been seduced into
setting it in motion. The shape his efforts took was by no means admirable. Had he been more
uniformly heroic, or less absolutely irrepressible, he would have gone to his prison, and laid
himself down magnanimously or passively mute. There, early or late, he would have died. Never
would his foes have opened the doors of their own good will. But his nature was not of that
kind. He burnt with a longing to be up and doing. He knew he was caught in toils he could not
burst by force. For his career's sake, he condescended to plead with and beseech them through
whom alone he could emerge into the daylight. They who have idealized him as a downtrodden
martyr will find the Ralegh portrayed by his own pen in scores of letters to princes, statesmen,
and nobles, little to their taste. The real Ralegh will not cease to be honoured by all whom
the sight of indomitable courage and doggedness in the accomplishment of a purpose moves. Only
in his words and style could we wish him to have been less supple and less meek. That we have
to wish in vain. He thought too highly both of the objects he meant to attain, and of the strength
of those who kept him from them, to be sparing of such slight things as entreaties.

[Sidenote: Reverence for Kingship.]

Life was the first article in his programme of ends to be pursued, or losses to be redeemed.
He prized life more than most. He had so much to do with a life. Half his work still, as he
reckoned, was incomplete. The world was young, and abounded in possibilities. To save himself
for life and work was worth playing at servility. He could hardly see the pettiness in a James,
in his parasites, in his Ministers, for absorption in their one essential quality, their ability,
as holding headsman and gaolers in a leash, to keep alive or kill, to bind or let loose. To
this age James is an awkward, ludicrous pedant. The spectacle of Ralegh's veneration is exasperating.
For Ralegh he was a symbol of sovereign authority, a mysterious keeper of the scales of fate.
He represented for Ralegh a power above courts of law, and entitled to set right their mistakes
or misdeeds. Of his mere will he could free Ralegh from persecution. For Ralegh he was a redresser
of grievances; and he was more. He impersonated potentiality to do as well as undo. The idea
of the opportunities embodied in an occupant of the throne was too engrossing for Ralegh to
weigh the character of the individual. He imagined himself not merely pardoned, but trusted
by the depositary of boundless national resources, which he was conscious of an infinite competence
to employ. His admiration of the capabilities of the royal Prerogative, if utilized as he perceived
that they could be utilized, embraced its titular tenant whoever he might be. He was dominated
by an intense sense of all he might accomplish for the indistinguishable duality of himself
and his country, if the King would. Sincerely he could profess he had loved James ever since
he beheld in him the heir of the national crown.

On November 29, 1603, the priests, Watson and Clarke, underwent the hideous doom which had
been pronounced upon Ralegh. They were drawn, hanged, and quartered. They still lived when
the quartering began. On December 6 Brooke was beheaded. His last words were: 'There is somewhat
yet hidden, which will one day appear for my justification.' Nothing ever has appeared. James
at Wilton House signed warrants for the execution of Cobham, Grey, and Markham on Friday, December
10. He had not the hardihood to sign the warrant for Ralegh's execution; but it is believed
to have been fixed for the Monday after. Queen Anne, it is said, was interceding for his life.
So was the King's host, Lord Pembroke, at his mother's bidding. He and his courtiers had won
from the criminal law Ralegh's condemnation. They were still hunting after apologies for the
conviction. Watson, Clarke, and Brooke had supplied none of the missing links. In vain had
Commissioners been examining and re-examining the prisoners. Their forlorn hope was the agony
or recklessness of the two lords and Markham on the scaffold.

[Sidenote: Farewell to his Wife.]

Meanwhile, in his prison in the Castle, Ralegh made ready for death. He had the spiritual assistance
of Bishop Bilson of Winchester, whom the King had deputed to console or confess him. Bishop
Bilson, who was said by an admirer to carry prelature in his very aspect, furthered later on
the divorce of Lord and Lady Essex. Ralegh found no fault with his behaviour to him, and gratefully
characterized him in his History as grave and learned. He satisfied the Bishop of his Christian
state; he could not be persuaded to acknowledge the truth of any of the charges against him,
unless, very partially, as to the pension. That, he said, was 'once mentioned, but never proceeded
in.' The day appointed for his death, he thought, was December 13. He had penned a last farewell
to his wife on December 9, 1603. It reads very unlike the All Souls' College paper. He sends
his 'love, that, when I am dead, you may keep it, not sorrows, dear Bess; let them go to the
grave with me, and be buried in the dust. Bear my destruction gently, and with a heart like
yourself.' He gives 'all the thanks my heart can conceive for your many troubles and cares
taken for me.' He bids her, for the love she bare him living, not hide herself many days, but
by her travail seek to help her miserable fortunes, and the right of her poor child. 'If you
can live free from want, care for no more: for the rest is but vanity. Love God, and begin
betimes to repose yourself on Him. 'I plainly perceive,' he continues, 'that my death was determined
from the first day.' He asks her, 'for my soul's health, to pay all poor men.' He warns her
against suitors for her money; 'for the world thinks that I was very rich.' He prays her, 'Get
those letters, if it be possible, which I writ to the Lords, wherein I sued for my life. My
true wife farewell. Bless my poor boy; pray for me. Yours, that was, but now not my own.'

[Sidenote: The Pilgrimage.]

He was more than willing to live. He was not afraid to die. In the apparent presence of death
his soul, as always, recovered its lofty serenity. With his head, as he thought, on the block,
he burst into the grand dirge of the Pilgrimage. Such are the variances of taste that a writer
of reputation has spoken of this noble composition as 'a strange medley in which faith and
confidence in God appear side by side with sarcasms upon the lawyers and the courtiers.' That
is a judgment with which few will agree. The poem in the most authoritative manuscript is described
as having been composed the night before Ralegh was beheaded. But it can scarcely be doubted
that it belongs to the present period, when he was daily expecting the arrival of the warrant
for his execution at Winchester. His spirit had 'quenched its thirst at those clear wells where
sweetness dwells.' It was bound in quiet palmer's fresh apparel--

              to Heaven's bribeless hall,
    Where no corrupted voices brawl;
    No conscience molten into gold,
    No forged accuser bought or sold,
    No cause deferred, no vain-spent journey;
    For there Christ is the King's Attorney.
    And when the grand twelve-million jury
    Of our sins, with direful fury,
    Against our souls black verdicts give,
    Christ pleads his death, and then we live.

[Sidenote: Royal Intervention.]

At ten in the morning of December 10 Sir Griffin Markham was conducted to the scaffold, which
had been erected in the Castle yard. He had said adieu to his friends, prayed, and was awaiting
the axe. Suddenly the spectators in the Castle yard saw the Sheriff, Sir Benjamin Tichborne,
stay the executioner. John Gibb, a Scotch groom of the royal bedchamber, had arrived, almost
too late, at the edge of the crowd. He was the bearer of a reprieve. James himself, on December
7, had drawn it, with a preamble: 'The two prestis and George Brooke vaire the principall plotteris
and intisairs of all the rest to the embracing of the saiddis treasonabill machinations.' He
had kept it back to the last, as well to multiply the chances of eliciting confessions of guilt,
as for the sake of the vividness of the stage play. He admired greatly his own ingenuity, and
his courtiers applauded enthusiastically. Of the detestable feline cruelty he and they had
no shame. Ralegh's window in the Castle overlooked the scaffold. He would be sensible of the
interruption of the proceedings. He could not have seen Gibb. He must, says Carleton, 'have
had hammers working in his head to beat out the meaning of the stratagem.' Beaumont, the French
ambassador, was told by an imaginative reporter that he 'était à la fenêtre, regardant la comédie
de ses compagnons avec un visage riant.'

[Sidenote: Scenes on the Scaffold.]

The Sheriff performed his part with a ready gravity which secured the King's approval. He was
already a favourite for having proclaimed James on the first news of the death of Elizabeth,
before the Council had declared him her successor. For his deserts both now and then the custody
of the Castle soon afterwards was bestowed upon him and his heirs. He said to Markham, 'You
say you are ill-prepared to die; you shall have two hours' respite.' Then he led him away,
and locked him in Arthur's Hall. Next Grey was brought on the scaffold. He asserted that his
fault against the King was 'far from the greatest, yet he knew his heart to be faulty.' He
too was ready for the axe, when the Sheriff led him away to Arthur's Hall, saying the order
of the execution was changed by the King's command, and Cobham was to precede Grey. Cobham
came, with so bold an air as to suggest he had heard; but he prayed so lengthily that a bystander
ejaculated he had 'a good mouth in a cry, but was nothing single.' He expressed repentance
for his offence against the King. He corroborated all he had said against Sir Walter Ralegh
as true 'upon the hope of his soul's resurrection.' The extortion of that confirmation of his
calumnies had been a main object of the whole disgraceful farce. When he had thus bought his
worthless life, the Sheriff brought back upon the scaffold Grey and Markham to stand beside
him. All three were asked if their offences were not heinous, and if they had not been justly
tried and lawfully condemned. Each answered affirmatively. Then said the Sheriff: 'See the
mercy of your Prince, who of himself hath sent hither a countermand, and hath given you your
lives.' At this the crowd burst into such hues and cries that they went from the Castle into
the town, and there began afresh. Grey said, 'Since the King has given me my life without my
begging, I will deserve life.' Henry IV was sceptical as to the magnanimity of James. He wrote
to Beaumont to discover if 'Spanish gold' were concerned in the reprieves; if Don Juan de Taxis
and Cecil had used influence for them; 'for it is rumoured that these persons, backed by money
expended by Ralegh, brought the thing about.' The faith in Ralegh's endless resources and skill
prevailed in France as in England.

CHAPTER XXII.

A PRISONER (1604-1612).

On December 16, 1603, Ralegh, with his fellow convicts, returned to London. That would have
been the close of an ordinary man's career. To him alone it did not seem the end, and he resolved
it should not be. He had his life. Liberty and fortune were still to be regained. He looked
around him, and endeavoured to retrieve the scattered fragments of his wealth. Like all his
peers in arms and politics he had ever believed in the importance of riches. But now he was
grasping at the possibility of continuing by money in lieu of his imprisoned self his schemes
of a Guiana sovereignty. He was striving to construct out of the wreck of his grandeur a refuge
for his wife and his boy from the anguish and dependence of penury. 'Poverty,' he preached
to his son, 'is a shame, an imprisonment of the mind. Poverty provokes a man to do infamous
and detested deeds.'

[Sidenote: Civilly dead.]

[Sidenote: Lord Nottingham's Rapacity.]

He was civilly dead. The division of his spoils had commenced before the trial. He had, as
has been mentioned, been dismissed in July from his island government. In September Godolphin,
High Sheriff of Cornwall, had been directed to take the musters, 'the commission of Lieutenancy
granted to Sir Walter Ralegh being become void and determined.' Early in 1604 he formally returned
the seal of the Duchy of Cornwall to Cecil. His successor was his connexion, Lord Pembroke.
He was stripped of the Rangership of Gillingham Forest, and of the Lieutenancy of Portland,
though he would regret the loss of those offices the less that they remained in the hands of
their joint tenant, his brother, Sir Carew. His enjoyment of his patent as wine licenser had
been suspended, that it might be considered if the post were a monopoly. The Council came to
the conclusion that it was not. But before Ralegh could collect the arrears from the vintners
he was arraigned. Thereupon, not waiting for the result of the trial, the King revoked the
patent, and granted it to the Lord Admiral. Nottingham, not content with the profit from new
licenses, claimed the arrears. Lady Ralegh remonstrated. She indignantly computed to Cecil
in 1604 that the Admiral 'hath £6000, and £3000 a year, by my husband's fall. And since it
pleaseth God that his Lordship shall build upon our ruins, which we never suspected, yet the
portion is great and, I trust, sufficient, out of one poor gentleman's fortune to take all
that remains, and not to look back before his Majesty's grant, and take from us the debts past,
which your Lordship knows were stayed from us by a proclamation before my husband was suspected
of any offence.' Sherborne was attached. Commissioners for it had been appointed, Serjeant
Phillips and Meere. They had pounced upon the domain, and were selling stock, felling timber,
and dismantling the castle. Cecil interfered peremptorily by letter, and for a time stayed
all proceedings. He is likely to have 'spoken the one word' about the wine licence arrears
which Lady Ralegh implored. No more is heard of the Lord Admiral's demand. A more important
favour was obtained. In February, 1604, all Ralegh's goods, chattels, and money due to him,
though forfeited for treason, were granted by the Crown to trustees for payment of debts owing
before his attainder, and for the maintenance of his wife and child. The trustees named were
Robert Smith and John Shelbury. Shelbury was Ralegh's steward, 'a man I can better entreat
than know how to reward.'

[Sidenote: The Sandersons.]

The grant included, beside the wine arrearages, money in the hands of the wine licenser's deputy,
William Sanderson. Sanderson was husband to Ralegh's niece, Margaret Snedale. He was father
of Sir William Sanderson, writer in 1656 of a History of Queen Mary and King James, full of
calumnies upon Ralegh. He denied the debt, and claimed £2000 from his principal. Thereupon
Ralegh, 'in great anger,' sued him, apparently with success. It is unnecessary to credit the
further allegation by the author, supposed to have been Ralegh's son Carew, though more probably
somebody inspired by him, of the Observations, already cited, upon Sanderson's History, that
the deputy was for the debt cast into prison, where he died a beggar. On the contrary, slender
as is the authority of the historian, as of his critic, it is easier, as well as preferable,
to accept Sir William Sanderson's statement, in answer to the Observations, that his father
and his family continued to be prosperous, and, having resumed amicable relations with Ralegh,
remained kind and faithful kinsfolk to the last. It is pleasant to be able to believe that
Ralegh disappointed a relative's temporary calculations upon his incapacity of resistance,
without acting the part of the insolvent steward of the Parable.

[Sidenote: The Wreck of his Estate.]

The mercy of the Crown extended for the present to the maintenance even of his rights over
the estate of Sherborne itself. A dozen suitors had applied for it, Cecil told a Scotch courtier
in October, 1603. But on July 30, 1604, in place of Ralegh's life interest, which was forfeited
by the attainder, a sixty years' term of Sherborne and ten other Dorset and Somerset manors,
with all other lands escheated, was conveyed by the Crown to trustees for Lady Ralegh and young
Walter, should Ralegh so long live. This boon, following the rest, went far towards remedying
the overwhelming pecuniary consequences of a judicial crime. The King is entitled to share
the credit with Cecil. He was not incapable of caprices of beneficence. Pity, rather than a
sense of justice, moved him. He loved to be magnanimous at small cost. He chose to regard Ralegh
as a traitor when he was innocent. He reaped from the injustice the additional satisfaction
of being exalted by his flatterers into a paragon of generosity for waiving part of the penalties
for offences which had not been committed. Ralegh's estate was, however, indebted yet more
to Cecil. If he would not, or could not, secure justice for his old ally, Cecil had no desire
to see him reduced to beggary. Whatever the cause, Ralegh undoubtedly suffered in purse less
than his condemned fellows. Cobham's and Grey's vast patrimonies were wholly confiscated. They
subsisted on the charity of the Crown. Markham was sent into exile so bare of means that he
had to barter his inlaid sword hilt for a meal. Ralegh was not thus stripped. Only, being guiltless,
as they were not, and did not pretend to be, he was not always gratefully content with the
morsels tossed back to him. Soon after his removal from Winchester he wrote to Cecil that £3000
a year, from Jersey, the Wine Office, the Stannaries, Gillingham, and Portland, was gone; there
remained but £300 from Sherborne, with a debt upon it of £3000. His tenants refused to pay
Lady Ralegh her rents. His woods were cut down, his grounds wasted, and his stock sold. Meanwhile
he was charged at the Tower, at first, £4, and later, £5, a week for the diet of himself, his
wife, child, and two servants. He had to urge the Council to stay the Commissioners at Sherborne,
whose rapacious activity had again awoke. He told the Council that the estate, with the park
and a stock of £400 in sheep, whatever its valuation by others, brought in but £666 13s. 4d.
This has been estimated, perhaps somewhat excessively, as equivalent to an income now of £3333.
Out of it he had to pay the Bishop of Salisbury £260. Fees and rates took another £50 a year.
His personal property he reckoned at not worth a thousand marks, or £666 13s. 4d. His rich
hangings were sold to my Lord Admiral for £500. He had but one rich bed, which he had sold
to Lord Cobham before his misfortunes. His plate, which he describes as very fair, was all
'lost, or eaten out with interest at one Chenes', 'or Cheynes', the goldsmith, in Lombard-street.

[Sidenote: Struggle for Freedom.]

He thought it hard to be robbed of his revenues. He declared that he could have endured the
calamity if penury had been all. Early in 1604 he wrote that, if Sherborne could be assured,
he should take his loss for a gain, nothing having been lost that could have bettered his family,
'but the lease of the wines, which was desperate before his troubles.' He did not wish for
his wife and son, 'God knows, the least proportion of plenty, having forgotten that happiness
which found too much too little.' His one desire was that they should be able to eat their
own bread. The interruption of his career was the real and unappeasable wrong. All his virtues
made him struggle indomitably against that. He was supported in the contest by the vice itself,
if it were a vice, of his abounding egotism. His incapacity for believing that powers like
his could be wasted by the State, buoyed him up against the direst persecutions. He was unable
at heart, whatever his groanings, to regard them as more than passing checks in a game in which
he had chanced upon losing cards. He fought for liberty more stubbornly than for his property,
that he might resume his work in the world. He complained in January, 1604, that Papists who
plotted to surprise the King's person had been liberated, while Cecil's poor, ancient, and
true friend was left to perish 'here where health wears away.' Cecil had written kind but cautious
lines in another hand, of which Ralegh 'knew the phrase.' They had raised his hopes. Cecil
dashed them by declaring to Lady Ralegh early in 1604 that, 'for a pardon, it could not yet
be done.' Ralegh did not therefore leave off seeking it. For some time he could not believe
that his imprisonment was to be more than transitory. His efforts were directed to the negotiation
of terms to which he might consent for the abridgment of the liberty he deemed his right. He
did not ask to be 'about London--which God cast my soul into hell if I desire.' He would be
content to be confined within the Hundred of Sherborne. If he could not be allowed so much,
he was ready to live in Holland. There he thought he might obtain some employment connected
with the Indies. Else he petitioned to 'be appointed to any bishop, or other gentleman, or
nobleman, or that your Lordship would let me keep but a park of yours--which I would buy from
someone that hath it--I will never break the order which you shall please to undertake for me.'

[Sidenote: At the Fleet Prison.]

[Sidenote: His Ailments.]

He fretted in mind; and he was ill in body. For several years his health had been impaired.
Only periodical visits to Bath for its waters assuaged his ailments. He prayed in vain that
he might be suffered to go thither in the autumn after his conviction. His prognostication
that, if he 'could not go this fall, he should be dead or disabled for ever,' was not likely
to alarm his foes. They affected at all times to be incredulous of the gravity of his infirmities.
After a week's sojourn in the Tower he seems to have been sent to the Fleet, where Keymis was
for a short time his fellow prisoner. There bills for his diet show that he was staying between
Christmas 1603 and Lady Day, 1604, or rather a few days later. He cannot have gone back to
the Tower precisely by Lady Day to stay, for reasons not of State, but of Court. On Monday,
March 26, 1604, Easter games were to be performed before the Court at the Tower. Two mastiffs
were to be let loose on a lion, and the King wanted to have his fortress-palace cleared, for
the occasion, of melancholy captives. A custom prevailed at such festivities of releasing prisoners.
There was no intention of liberating the Winchester convicts. So, according to the rumour of
the Court, as sent home by the Venetian Embassy, they 'were removed from the Tower and placed
in other prisons.' If this statement is to be accepted literally, and to be reconciled with
the Fleet bills for food, they must, at some time before Easter, have returned from the Fleet
to the Tower, and then, before March 26, been sent back for a brief space to the Fleet. Ralegh
had no cause for rejoicing when the time arrived for his permanent establishment in the Tower.
After his return it was again, as in 1603, visited by the Plague. He prayed to be taken elsewhere,
on the ground that the pestilence was come next door. In the adjacent tenement, with a paper
wall between, were, he told Cecil, lying a woman and her child, dying of it. When the Tower
was free from the Plague it was still an unsuitable lodging for one of Ralegh's constitution.
Moisture oozed constantly into the walls from the wide muddy ditch. The cells were bitterly
cold, and Ralegh was chilled and benumbed. 'Every second or third night,' he reiterated to
Cecil in 1605, 'I am in danger either of sudden death, or of the loss of my limbs and senses,
being sometimes two hours without feeling a motion of my hand and whole arm.' In 1606 his physician,
Dr. Peter Turner, certified that his whole left side was cold. His fingers on the same side
began to be contracted, and his tongue in some sort, insomuch that he spoke weakly, and that
it was to be feared he might utterly lose the use of it. Only in consequence of Turner's authoritative
representations was Ralegh's chamber changed. In the little garden under the terrace was a
lath and plaster lean-to. It had been Bishop Latimer's prison. Since it had been used as a
hen-house. Ralegh had already been permitted to employ this out-house as a still room. He was
allowed now to build a little room next it, and use it as his habitual dwelling.

[Sidenote: In the Bloody Tower.]

Other alleviations of his confinement were granted, particularly in its earlier and again in
its concluding years. For an inmate of a gaol, his treatment was commonly not very rigorous.
His quarters themselves, though cold, were otherwise convenient. At his committal in July he
had been put into the upper chamber of the Bloody tower. Formerly this was called the Garden
tower. According to one authority it became known by the more ominous name after Lord Northumberland's
death there in June, 1585. Mrs. Lucy Hutchinson, who was born in the Tower, derives the appellation
from a tradition of her childhood, that it was the scene of the murder of the Duke of Clarence.
The assassination in it of Edward V and his brother seems to account for it more naturally.
On Ralegh's return from Winchester, he was, says Lord de Ros, who was both Lieutenant of the
Tower and one of his successors in the Captaincy of the Yeomen, placed in a semi-circular room,
lighted by loopholes, in the White tower, and there remained all the years of his imprisonment.
That, though a current local tradition, is grossly incorrect, as a Lieutenant of the Tower
ought to have known. As, however, Lord de Ros also thought that Ralegh died on Tower Hill,
it is the less surprising that he should not have known where in the Tower he lived. According
to another legend equally baseless, he was lodged on the second and third floors of the Beauchamp
tower. Really from Winchester he went back to the apartment he had previously inhabited. It
had its advantages. A passage in the rear led by a door to the terrace, which has been christened
Ralegh's Walk. From it he could look down on one side over a much-frequented wharf to the busy
river. On the other it commanded the Lieutenant's garden and green. The suite of rooms accommodated
Cottrell, and apparently also John Talbot, Talbot's son, and Peter Dean, who waited on Ralegh.
There was space for Lady Ralegh, Walter, and Lady Ralegh's waiting maid. They occupied the
room in which Edward V and his brother were murdered. When the Plague invaded their quarters
they removed for a time to lodgings on Tower Hill, near the church of Allhallows, Barking.
It is uncertain whether there, or in the room of the slaughtered Princes, a second son, Carew,
was born to Ralegh and his wife in 1604. On the abatement of the epidemic, Lady Ralegh, with
the children, returned.

[Sidenote: Alleviations of Confinement.]

Ralegh could entertain dependents and acquaintances. His Sherborne steward, John Shelbury,
Hariot, his physician Dr. Turner, a surgeon Dr. John, and a clergyman named Hawthorn, were
frequently with him. His Ralegh and Gilbert kinsfolk, we may be sure, did not desert him, though
there was no especial reason to chronicle their visits. Had fuller details been preserved of
his private life, we should doubtless have found mention of his brother Carew, who was living
in apparent prosperity at Downton. His employment, as soon as he had the opportunity, of the
naval and military services of his nephews, George Ralegh and Gilbert, shows that the family
union survived unbroken. Admirers from the West and the Court came to listen to his conversation,
and watch his chemical experiments. The Indians he had brought from Guiana had stayed in England.
The register of Chelsea Church records the baptism of one of them by the name of Charles, 'a
boy of estimation ten or twelve years old, brought by Sir Walter Rawlie from Guiana.' After
his imprisonment they were lodged in the Tower, or near. He could amuse himself by catechising
them on the wonders of their land. His freedom of movement in the early and late stages of
his imprisonment, when he had 'the liberty of the Tower,' roused the envy of fellow prisoners.
Grey murmured in 1611: 'Sir Walter Ralegh hath a garden and a gallery to himself.' In his deepest
tribulations he had reverential valets and pages to comb by the hour his thick curling locks,
to trim his bushy beard, and round moustache. Crowds thronged the wharf below to mark him pacing
his terrace in the velvet and laced cap, the rich gown and trunk hose, noted by Aubrey's cousin
Whitney, and the jewels, of which he retained an ample store.

[Sidenote: His Gaoler.]

But he was made in many respects, and at frequent intervals, to feel himself 'a dead man,'
possessed of no rights, subject to all sorts of caprices. A kind-hearted Lieutenant might ameliorate
his lot. He had fascinated Sir George Harvey, who had commenced ill with the suppression of
Cobham's letter. They habitually dined together. Harvey had lent or let to him his garden.
The door of the Bloody tower was suffered to stand habitually open. On August 16, 1605, Sir
William Waad replaced Harvey. He had earned the post by his keen scent for plots. He came prepared
to grudge privileges to the man who had foiled his inquisitorial cunning. A week after his
appointment to the Lieutenancy he wrote to Cecil, to suggest the replacement of a lath fence,
which ran past the Bloody tower gate, by a brick wall, as 'more safe and convenient.' His advice
was taken, and a brick wall built. Still he was uneasy. In December, 1608, he complained indignantly
to Cecil that 'Sir Walter Ralegh doth show himself upon the wall in his garden to the view
of the people, who gaze upon him, and he stareth on them. Which he doeth in his cunning humour,
that it might be thought his being before the Council was rather to clear than to charge him.'
Waad took credit to himself that he had been 'bold in discretion and conveniency to restrain
him again.' For Waad to reprove Ralegh ought to have needed boldness. He desired to repress
the wife as well as the husband. Lady Ralegh does not seem to have been sufficiently awed by
the august associations of the Tower. He had to issue an order forbidding her to drive into
the court-yard in her coach. By another solemn order aimed at Sir Walter, he decreed that,
at ringing of the afternoon bell, all the prisoners, with their servants, were to withdraw
into their chambers. They were not to go forth again for that night.

Until May, 1613, Ralegh had to endure this man's petty spite and disciplinary pedantry. Then
Waad retired, to the great contentment of his prisoners, though, as it happened, from a cause
which did him honour. Lady Arabella Stuart's chief pleasure during her iniquitous imprisonment
was the increase of her stock of jewels. From an order of Council after her death, she would
seem to have consulted Ralegh as an expert. Several stones of price had disappeared in 1613.
Suspicion was cast upon Waad, or his wife and daughter. Probably they were entirely innocent.
The real object was that Carr might introduce a more pliant instrument for foul play against
Sir Thomas Overbury. Under pressure of the accusation based on the missing trinkets, Waad accepted
£1400 from Sir Gervase Elways, with a promise of £600 more, and vacated his office. Elways
became an accomplice in Overbury's murder, and was hanged on his own Tower Hill. But he was
less of a martinet than his predecessor. Perhaps his patrons were engaged in too serious crimes
to waste their energy in inciting him to petty persecutions of Ralegh. At all events, Ralegh
recovered the liberty of the Tower; and the restrictions on the presence of his wife were relaxed.

[Sidenote: Fresh Accusations.]

At no period were his really formidable enemies inside the Tower. Waad himself would not have
dared to harass and worry him, if he had not been confident that his tyranny would be approved
at Court. His foes there were perpetually on the watch for excuses for tightening and perpetuating
his bonds. He had to defend himself from a suspicion of complicity with the Gunpowder Plot
in 1605. Commissioners, of whom Waad was one, were appointed to inquire. Lord Northumberland
had been sent to the Tower by the Star Chamber for misprision of treason, on the flimsy pretext
of his intimacy with Thomas Percy. He was questioned on his communications at the Tower with
Ralegh. Ralegh was questioned on his with the Earl. One day the French ambassador's wife, Madame
de Beaumont, came to visit the lions in company with Lady Howard of Effingham. She saw Ralegh
in his garden. The Tower contained no lion as wonderful. She asked him for some balsam of Guiana.
He forwarded the balsam to the ambassadress by Captain Whitelocke, a retainer of Northumberland's,
who happened to have been in her train. Several Lords of the Council were deputed to examine
him on his intercourse with Whitelocke, a spy having deposed that he had noticed Whitelocke
in the Archduke's company during the summer of 1605. Ralegh had difficulty in persuading the
Council that he had seen little either of the Captain, who came only on an ordinary visit,
of Northumberland, since the Earl's confinement, or of the French ambassador and his wife.
He prayed their Lordships in the name of 'my many sorrows and the causes, my services and love
to my country, not to suspect me to be knowing this unexampled and more than devilish invention.'
Some of them, with their master, were capable of thinking, or affecting to think, any incredible
evil of him, and all belonging to him. It was accounted an alarming circumstance that in the
September of 1605 Lady Ralegh, during a visit to Sherborne, had the old arms in the castle scoured.

[Sidenote: Lady Ralegh's Expulsion.]

In 1607 the Council instituted an inquiry into the manner in which Harvey had played the gaoler.
Ralegh was brought before it, and interrogated. So was Edward or William Cottrell, described
as 'alias Captain Sampson.' He was found to have been living for some time past at Sherborne,
perhaps under his alias, on a pension granted him by Ralegh. In terror, or through an offer
of better terms, he now confessed his part in the bygone transmission of messages between Ralegh,
Keymis, and Cobham. Again, in 1610 some new and shadowy charges were brought against Ralegh.
The Council sat at the Tower. On Cecil was thrown the task, we will hope, the very ungrateful
task, of addressing to him a solemn rebuke. He was subjected to three months of close imprisonment,
and his wife was obliged to leave the Tower. An order was served upon her: 'The Lady Raleighe
must understand his Majesty's express will and commandment that she resort to her house on
Tower Hill or ellswhere with her women and sonnes to remayne there, and not to lodge hereafter
within the Tower.' Ralegh prayed earnestly that she might 'again be made a prisoner with me,
as she hath been for six years last past, in this unsavoury place--a miserable fate for her,
and yet great to me, who in this wretched estate can hope for no other thing than peaceable
sorrow.' The offence for which he was censured and immured was never revealed to the public;
for the excellent reason, it may be presumed, that to the public it would have appeared frivolous.
His true criminality now and throughout is to be gathered from the testimony of Henry Howard
in the year following. In July, 1611, fresh rumours of offences committed by him were spread.
Howard, now Earl of Northampton and Lord Chamberlain, and another Privy Councillor, were commissioned
to inquire. To Howard's taste, his spirit was not at all sufficiently subdued. In a letter
to his notable accomplice and pupil, and the future husband of his great niece, Carr, Lord
Rochester and Privy Seal, Howard expressed his spite: 'We had a bout with Sir Walter Ralegh,
in whom we find no change, but the same boldness, pride, and passion, that heretofore hath
wrought more violently, but never expended itself in a stronger passion. Hereof his Majesty
shall hear when the Lords come to him. The lawless liberty of the Tower, so long cockered and
fostered with hopes exorbitant, hath bred suitable desires and affections. And yet you may
assure his Majesty that by this publication he won little ground.' He gained so little that,
as he wrote in this year, he was, after eight years of imprisonment, as straitly locked up
as he had been the first day.

[Sidenote: Search for Evidence of Guilt.]

When his imprisonment was most severe, it was moderate for his guilt if he were guilty. In
its times of least oppressiveness it was an enormity, if he were innocent. To himself, who
knew that he was guiltless of the treason imputed to him, and was convinced that his gaolers
knew it, his imprisonment under any conditions appeared a monstrous iniquity. He could never
desist from protesting against the wrong. It was the grievance as much of his enemies that
they had him fast in prison, and could neither browbeat him into acknowledging the justice
of his doom, nor prove its justice. They had obtained his condemnation rather than his conviction.
They were incited by his appeals to redoubled efforts to establish his original guilt. Some,
the King for example, may, from rooted prejudice, have believed him guilty. No less than his
most malignant and unscrupulous foes they resented furiously their inability to demonstrate
it. They regarded it as evidence merely of his abominable craft. The ordinary and extraordinary
laxity of his confinement indicated their doubt of his fair liability to any. The intervals
of rigour were meant to notify to the sceptical that the Government was at last on the track
of evidence which would confirm the equity of everything from the beginning done against him.
Constantly he had to stand on his defence against attempts to palliate the effrontery of the
Winchester judgment by experimental accusations that he had been tampering with new conspiracies.
For ten years the contest proceeded between him and the Court on that basis. He asseverated
the right of an innocent man to freedom, and the Court went on searching for proofs of its
right to put him into captivity. His adversaries might have been content with the degree of
ruin they had wrought if he would have acquiesced in his fall. He insisted on regarding himself
as living, though he could not deny that he was civilly dead. He looked forth from his prison
on the world as a stage on which he still played a part, and might once more lead. He would
keep digging up the buried past. He assumed the offensive against the majesty of the law. He
was not patient of injustice because a court of justice was its source. He had the audacity
to speak, think, and write, as if he were entitled to canvass affairs of State. From his gaol
he became audible in the recesses of the Palace. He troubled the self-complacency of its master
by teaching his consort and his heir-apparent to question his infallible wisdom.

[Sidenote: Queen Anne's Favour.]

[Sidenote: Cobham's Winchester Letter again.]

Queen Anne perhaps scarcely needed the lesson. She was fond of power, and 'bold and enterprising,'
records Sully. Her husband appears to have stood in some awe of her criticisms. She commonly
took a line of her own. Henry Howard, whose policy she had opposed before the death of Elizabeth,
insinuated that she was a foolish, garrulous, and intriguing woman. She may not have been very
wise, but she had generous emotions and courage. She disliked the Spanish connexion, of which
she was at one period esteemed a supporter. She admired Ralegh's great qualities and great
deeds. His faithful cousin George Carew, her Vice-Chamberlain, would remind her of them. Lady
Ralegh, whom she is said on her first arrival from Scotland to have repulsed, had gained her
ear and sympathy. She had, from the time of Ralegh's trial, tried to help him. By a medicine
of his invention she believed herself subsequently to have been cured of a violent malady.
In gratitude she is reported, or fabled, to have gained the King's consent to a re-examination
of Cobham's charge against him. Reference has already been made to the story, as told by Sir
Anthony Welldon. Cecil, Lenox, Worcester, Suffolk, Carew, and Julius Cæsar are said to have
been deputed to ask Cobham if he had not really accused Ralegh at Winchester. Cobham answered:
'Never, nor could I; but that villain Waad got me by a trick to write my name upon a piece
of white paper, which I, thinking nothing, did; so that, if any charge came under my hand,
it was forged by Waad by writing something above my hand.' Then returning to the King the rest
chose Cecil for spokesman. He said: 'Sir, my Lord Cobham hath made good all that ever he wrote
or said.' Altogether it is a most improbable tale. Waad disliked Ralegh; there is no ground
for belief that he would have perpetrated a cold-blooded fraud to gratify his ill-will. He
was arrogant and tyrannical, not criminal, as the circumstances of the loss of his Lieutenancy
show. The presence of honest and friendly Carew as one of the royal commissioners, renders
the account as it stands all but incredible. He certainly would not have been a party to a
lying and wicked prevarication. Cecil would not, nor Sir Julius Cæsar. But it is one of the
many Ralegh myths, with a possible particle of truth in it, which cannot be sifted out of the
mass of fiction.

[Sidenote: Ralegh on a Piedmontese Alliance.]

Ralegh built more hopes on the favour of the Prince of Wales than on that of his mother. Prince
Henry was of a high spirit. He would have rejoiced in war at which his father shuddered. Through
his mother he made Ralegh's acquaintance in his boyhood, and for him the prisoner was a hero.
Everybody has heard his saying: 'Who but my father would keep such a bird in a cage!' Ralegh
eagerly responded to the advances of one through whom he might become not only free but powerful.
The Prince delighted in the company of Ralegh, who states that he had intended the History
of the World for him; and he is said to have looked over the manuscript. He consulted Ralegh
in 1611 on the proposal by Duke Charles Emmanuel I of Savoy for a double intermarriage. The
Elector Palatine was negotiating for the hand of Princess Elizabeth. Spain and the whole Catholic
party in Europe dreaded an alliance of the English royal family with German Protestantism.
They tried to engage James to affiance Elizabeth to the Duke of Savoy's son, the Prince of
Piedmont, and Henry to the Duke's daughter. Ralegh combated the scheme in two Discourses, printed
long after his death. The first mainly discussed the plan of Elizabeth's marriage to 'a prince
jesuited,' her removal far from her country to a family circle of another faith, a dependent
now and ever, as Ralegh not prophetically declared, 'either upon France or upon Spain.' He
foreboded how, in default of male heirs in England, 'a Savoyan, of Spanish race, might become
King of England.' 'I do prize,' he declared, 'the alliance of the Palatine of the Rhine, and
of the House of Nassau, more than I do the alliance of the Duke of Savoy.' In the second Discourse
Ralegh argued against the Prince's alliance with Dukes of the blood of Spain, and servants
of 'Spain, which to England is irreconcilable.' Such an alliance would increase the jealousy
of the Netherlands, a country which was for England a necessary friend. He lamented the present
weakness of England, 'through the detested covetousness of some great ones of ours. Whereas,
in my time, I have known one of her Majesty's ships command forty Hollanders to strike sail,
they will now take us one to one, and not give us a good morrow. They have our own ordnance
to break our own bones withal.' Besides, the Prince was only about eighteen. So long as he
continued unmarried all the eyes of Christendom were upon him. 'Let him for a while not entangle
himself.' When he desired to wed he would find, Ralegh suggested, a French family alliance
more honourable and advantageous than a Spanish.

His presumption in meddling with questions of State, and in answering them in a manner opposite
to the King's inclination, may have had something to do with the unexplained chastisement inflicted
upon him in the summer of 1611. Whatever their cause, rebukes and curtailments of privileges
neither silenced him nor lost him the goodwill of his friend. The Prince not long after sought
his assistance in the building of a model ship. The vessel was christened 'The Prince,' and
it proved an excellent sailer. The prisoner of the Tower wrote about it as if he smelt the
sea-breezes. Twenty-nine years earlier he had proved himself a master in the art of ship-building.
In his time, as he has recorded, 'the shape of English ships had been greatly bettered.' Much
of the credit of the reform is his due. Pett, the best naval architect in the kingdom, in whose
family the post of Master Shipwright became almost hereditary, is reported to have been glad
to gather hints from him. His communications with the Prince about the ship drew his thoughts
back to maritime questions. Beside a letter, admirably terse and critical, to Prince Henry,
he composed a treatise minutely practical, called a Discourse of the Invention of Ships, and
also Observations concerning the Royal Navy and Sea Service. Both probably were intended for
parts of an elaborate work on The Art of War by Sea, which the death of the Prince hindered
him from completing. He alludes in the Observations to a Discourse of a Maritimal Voyage, as
a previous product of his pen, which, unless it be the Discourse of the Invention of Ships,
has disappeared. Had The Art of War by Sea come into systematic being, that might have stood
as another of its chapters.

[Sidenote: Robert Cecil's Death.]

Prince Henry's death was the most cruel blow inflicted on him since his trial. The disappointment
was the severer that it had been preceded six months earlier by another death on which his
friends, and perhaps himself, founded expectations. On May 16, 1612, died Robert Cecil, Earl
of Salisbury, and Lord High Treasurer. He was hastening to Court, to countermine his underminers,
from Bath, where he had been taking the waters. At the inn at Marlborough he found himself
grievously ill. He was removed, it has been variously stated, either to the parsonage, or to
the house of a Mr. Daniel, which had formerly been St. Margaret's Priory. There he expired.

[Sidenote: Dumb Enmity.]

A born statesman, Cecil had been condemned by a passion for affairs, and incapacity for dispensing
with office, to serve a great sovereign in little ways, and to emphasize or dissemble a feeble
sovereign's feebleness. As a friend he could relieve adversity so far as not to cancel it;
but he could not pardon in a companion prosperity which threatened rivalry, or risk his share
of sunshine by screening a victim of popular and regal odium. By no class was he profoundly
lamented. Veteran and well-endowed officials seldom are. Ralegh, it is to be feared, was never
among the mourners. He had received benefits from Cecil, and acknowledged them thankfully.
He could not forgive an acquaintance, who must have known his innocence of treason, for letting
his life be blasted by the charge. He could not understand that the statesman and potent courtier,
whose fortunes at no time were visibly clouded, should be unable, or honestly think himself
unable, to lift a persecuted comrade out of the mire. If Cecil did not come effectually to
the rescue, he believed, at any rate at last, that it was because he would not. Cecil read
his mind, had no faith in his gratitude, and accounted the duties of a dead friendship discharged
by attempts to mitigate rather than to reverse his doom. Harassed by business and the toil
of keeping his slippery footing, he would feel chiefly a dull irritation at the captive, whether
guiltless or guilty, for the obstinacy of his dispute with accomplished facts. He ought, the
Minister, like his avowed enemies, would think, to have acquiesced, and been still. Thus the
two went on, mutually scornful and mistrustful, exchanging soft phrases which neither meant.
The true condition of their hearts was not hidden from bystanders. They never confessed it
one to the other, or frankly to themselves.

Historical scavengers, Aubrey and Osborn, have attributed to Ralegh's pen a coarse and truculent
epigram on the dead statesman under the name of Hobbinol. John Shirley, Ralegh's honest but
credulous biographer, in 1677, also alleges him to have been the author, 'on very good grounds,'
by which probably is signified nothing better than common gossip. Aubrey vouches in support
statements made to him by Mr. Justice Malet, who is not known to have had any especial means
of procuring information. Mr. Edwards believes it to be genuine. I cannot, though King James's
alleged expression of a 'hope that the writer of those lines might die before him,' of which
he was so careful to secure the fulfilment, has to be discarded with it. The evidence for Ralegh's
authorship is exceedingly weak; and the rude verses are marked by none of his elegance of style.
But the attempt to father so wretched a foundling upon him is proof the more of the popular
perception of the dissembled estrangement. In a less undignified shape than a scurrilous epitaph
on a dishonest shepherd, the bitterness Ralegh felt was sometimes openly exhibited. It is not
discernible merely in collective insinuations against men whose ascendency in the royal council
had been his 'infelicity.' When he had an opportunity it found a vent in a formal written accusation
against the dead Lord Treasurer of having violated his duty to the King and the Exchequer by
diverting to his own use the mass of Cobham's forfeited wealth. Gradually, brooding over his
wrongs, he had accustomed himself to think Cecil not only the egotist he was, but an unscrupulous
plotter, who wished to keep under lock and key a man able to unmask his rapacity. The Minister's
death would appear to him to have cleared the board for new and happier combinations in his favour.

[Sidenote: Prince Henry.]

[Sidenote: The Prince's Death.]

The Prince of Wales had at eighteen developed a will both resolute and impetuous, to which
the death of a veteran statesman like Cecil was sure to have afforded freer scope. He did not
disguise either his discontent at the policy of his father's favourite advisers, or his preference
for ambitious projects such as Ralegh was known to cherish. Ralegh never had reason to doubt
the sincerity of his admiration. There seemed no more ground for uncertainty as to the Prince's
immediate influence on his behalf than as to the benefits to be derived from the youth's eventual
accession to the throne. Henry was said to have extracted a promise from James of Ralegh's
liberation at Christmas, 1612. November came, and the Prince lay dying of a raging fever. The
Queen sent to the Tower for the medicine which had cured her. Ralegh despatched it with a letter,
asserting that it would certainly heal this or any other case of fever, unless there were poison.
A vehement debate followed among the Lords of the Council and the doctors, including the Genevese
physician, Dr., afterwards Sir, Theodore Mayerne. Finally, the potion was administered. The
patient, who had been speechless, revived sufficiently to speak. But it did not save his life.
The populace and the Queen believed that it had been ineffectual because there had been poison.
Forty years later, Carew Ralegh referred to the rumour as still credited. At the time it was
repeated on the judicial bench. Sir Thomas Monson in 1615 was being tried for complicity in
the murder of Sir Thomas Overbury. Coke, become Chief Justice, insinuated with his usual discretion
and fairness at the trial that Overbury was poisoned from fear that he might, through hostility
to Carr, divulge his guilty knowledge of a similar crime against 'a sweet Prince.'

Prince Henry's death blasted the prospect of Ralegh's ultimate restoration to royal favour,
as well as to immediate liberty. It inflicted a less, but very vexatious, disappointment. After
a protracted struggle he had been stripped of his Dorsetshire estate. Sherborne, he might have
reckoned, was indefeasibly safe. Its enjoyment for his life was covered by the term for sixty
years. The settlement of 1602 seemed to have set the inheritance out of danger. But in the
course, perhaps, of the legal investigation with a view to the grant of the term for the benefit
of Ralegh's wife and children, a flaw was detected in the conveyance of the fee. Little cause
as Ralegh had to respect the impartiality of Popham and Coke in criminal procedure, he retained
full confidence in their legal learning. To them in 1604, at his own earnest request, the deed
of 1602 was submitted by Cecil. Their opinion on it was clear and fatal. They could have given
no other. The essential words of a conveyance in trust, that the trustees shall stand thereof
seised to the uses specified, had, Popham wrote to Cecil on June 7, 1605, been omitted. Popham
believed the omission to have been due to the carelessness of the engrossing clerk. Through
it the estate had remained wholly in Ralegh. Consequently, by his attainder it was forfeited.
Lady Ralegh sought an audience of James. She prayed him not to take advantage of the forfeiture.
With the facility which was compatible equally with generosity and with rapacious injustice,
he promised. He directed Cecil to have a grant to her and her children prepared. It never was.
At first the preposterous suspicion of Ralegh's sympathy with the Gunpowder Plot may have caused
delay. Later the King discovered that he wanted the property for his own purposes. Alarmed
at his own propensity for indulging the caprice of the moment, and mindful of the extent to
which the Scottish Crown had been pauperized by royal improvidence, he had accepted a self-denying
ordinance. By this he bound himself not to grant away the patrimony of the Crown. For the endowment
of favourites he had to rely, therefore, on windfalls from attainders and escheats. Robert
Carr now had to be provided for. Sherborne happened to suit his taste, and the Ralegh family
had to be ejected.

[Sidenote: Lady Ralegh and the King.]

[Sidenote: Escheat of Sherborne.]

Proceedings were commenced in 1607 on the Attorney-General's Information to establish the claim
of the Crown. Lady Ralegh again knelt before the King. She implored a waiver of the forfeiture
in her and young Walter's favour. James rejected her petition either silently, or, according
to Carew Ralegh, with the ejaculation, 'I mun have the land; I mun have it for Carr.' In a
petition he addressed to the Long Parliament, Carew related that she fell down upon her knees,
with her young sons beside her, and in the bitterness of her spirit invoked the vengeance of
Heaven upon those who had so wrongfully exposed her and her poor children to ruin and beggary.
James was used to her supplications for justice, and to repulsing them. In the previous autumn
she had knelt to him at Hampton Court for her husband's liberty, and been passed without a
word. Ralegh himself wasted upon Carr an eloquent prayer that he would not begin his first
buildings upon the ruins of the innocent. He entreated him not to 'give me and mine our last
fatal blow by obtaining from his Majesty the inheritance of my children and nephews, lost in
law for want of words.' He made the attempt after his manner of neglecting no possibility.
He can have put little trust in royal justice, and less in a worthless minion's magnanimity.
Early in January, 1608, the Court of Exchequer decided against the validity of the conveyance.
Chamberlain wrote on January 10, 1608, to Dudley Carleton: 'Sir Walter Ralegh's estate is fallen
into the King's hands by reason of a flaw in the conveyance. He hath bestowed it on Sir Robert
Carr. And though the Lady Ralegh hath been an importunate suitor all these holidays in her
husband's behalf, yet it is past recall. So that he may say, with Job, Naked came I into the
world, &c. But, above all, one thing is to be noticed: the error or oversight is said to be
so gross that men do merely ascribe it to God's own hand that blinded him and his counsel.'

Apparently the case was too technically plain against the deed for it to be seriously defended.
Ralegh before the formal judgment had assented, under protest, to a proposal for the conveyance
of his wife's and son's interest during his life to the Crown for a sum of £5000 to be paid
the next year. For the remainder in fee he and she both struggled a while longer. Finally,
formal judgment having been given for the Crown on October 27, 1608, they agreed to convey
absolutely the entire interest for an annuity of £400, to be paid for the lives of lady Ralegh
and young Walter, in lieu of Lady Ralegh's right to jointure out of the estate, and for a capital
sum of £8000. In this the £5000 was to merge. The annuity was often in arrear. Part of the
£8000 was paid down, and Ralegh lent it on mortgage to the dowager Countess of Bedford. For
the rest the Exchequer not very regularly paid interest. The rental of the Sherborne lands
was £750. This at sixteen years' purchase was £12,000. Consequently, it has been urged, the
Crown did not drive a hard bargain. They who thus argue confess to some perplexity how the
property could shortly afterwards have been, as it was, valued against Carr himself at £20,000
or £25,000. They have forgotten that the £750 rental does not allow for the worth of the house
Ralegh had built, and for its costly embellishments.

[Sidenote: Vicissitudes of Ownership.]

[Sidenote: Sale to Digby.]

Ralegh, with the certainty of a legal declaration of the forfeiture of the fee, had reluctantly
assented to the compromise. He was weary and sick. He would be glad, he wrote, never to hear
the place named thenceforth. Not so easily could he divorce himself from it. There was his
old bailiff, whose insolent persecution tied him to the estate. In April, 1610, Meere had the
effrontery to offer to prove by a letter, probably forged, that Ralegh had promised him £100
a-year to conceal a set of frauds. His own heart cherished a lingering hope of a restoration
of the property after all. In 1612 it seemed to be on the point of returning to him. Prince
Henry expressed his indignation that a place of so much strength and beauty should have been
given away, and had begged it of his father in the summer. James consented, and compensated
Carr with £25,000 or £20,000. Ralegh and his friends believed that the Prince meant to bestow
it on him with his freedom. On the Prince's death in November it reverted to the Crown, which
sold a lease of it to Sir Robert Phillips. The transaction was speedily cancelled, and James
gave the place back to Carr for the sum of £20,000, which, if not more, he had received. Three
years later Carr's attainder shifted it over once again. Villiers might have had it, and refused.
He would not, he said, have his fortune built upon another man's ruins. His contemporaries
thought he might have been influenced also by fear of Bishop Osmund's curse upon all who should
take Sherborne from the bishopric. Had he accepted it, Felton's dagger would have been considered
one of the curse's instruments. At all events, he did not lose by his generous sentiment. Eleven
manors were bestowed upon him instead, as was recited in their grant, of the Manor of Sherborne
intended for him. Thereupon the property was sold to Sir John Digby, subsequently Lord Digby
of Sherborne and Earl of Bristol, for £10,000, supplemented by gratuitous diplomatic services
in Spain. Long afterwards, as we shall see, Carew Ralegh tried to revive the hereditary claim.
Ralegh himself ceased to prosecute it after Prince Henry's death.

CHAPTER XXIII.

SCIENCE AND LITERATURE (1604-1615).

[Sidenote: Chemical Researches.]

In prison as in freedom, if Ralegh failed in one effort for the reconstruction whether of his
fortune, or of his career, he was always ready for another. He felt all the tedium of the uphill
struggle. 'Sorrow rides the ass,' he exclaimed; 'prosperity the eagle.' Never for an instant
was he dejected to the extent of faltering in the energy of his protests against the endeavours
to suppress him. As Mr. Rossetti has noted in an exquisite sonnet, his mind remained always
at liberty. His avocations and interests were enough to engage a dozen ordinary lives. He had
always been interested in chemical experiments. He had studied the qualities of metals. In
August, 1602, Carew mentioned to Cecil that he had been sending over to Ralegh from Munster
'many sorts of ore' to prove. Within his Tower garden he equipped an assaying furnace. Cecil
occasionally visited it and him to inquire about the results. He is supposed to have written
a Treatise of Mines and the Trial of Minerals. It has been thought he was associated with Sir
Adrian Gilbert in working during Elizabeth's reign the ancient and neglected silver mines at
Combe Martin. Long afterwards he agreed to join Boyle in working a Munster copper mine. Beside
his furnace he had his laboratory at the foot of Bloody tower. He had always been fond of chemistry.
A learned book on it had been dedicated to him as to an expert in the days of his grandeur.
Oldys saw in Sir Hans Sloane's library a manuscript collection in Ralegh's own hand of Chemical
and Medicinal Receipts. Now, in his enforced leisure, he threw himself ardently into the pursuit
of experimental philosophy in many directions. He is said to have learnt how to cure common
English tobacco in the Tower, so that he made it equal to American. The Royal Agricultural
Society a few years since would have been grateful for his discovery. He is known to have discovered
in the Tower the art of condensing fresh water from salt. He applied the process during his
subsequent voyage to Guiana, though the secret was afterwards lost for two centuries. He was
especially eager in the study of drugs. Waad wrote to Cecil in 1605 that he 'doth spend his
time all the day in distillations in a little hen-house in the garden, which he hath converted
into a still-house.' Sampson, a chemist, served him as operator for twelve years. Materials
were brought to him by his old comrades and servants from all parts, and he experimented on
their properties. He kept a stock of spices and essences, which sometimes he gave away, and
sometimes sold. Great French ladies, we have seen, begged balms of him. A letter is preserved
from one Zechelius of Nuremberg, complaining of his neglect to send some sassafras he had promised.

[Sidenote: The Great Cordial.]

His drugs gained fame for cures, and sometimes for the reverse. He had presented some to Overbury.
Ill-natured gossip attributed the death of the Countess of Rutland on September 1, 1612, to
pills of his composition. The wonder is that in neither case was any sinister motive charged.
On the other hand, his Great Cordial or Elixir, which is not to be confounded with his Simple
Cordial, was credited with astonishing virtues, and devoutly imbibed. His exact prescription
for it is no longer extant. It is not clear whether he ever divulged the quantities as well
as the ingredients. As specified by himself it might not have the air of quackery, which, it
cannot be denied, surrounds the receipt handed down to posterity. Charles the Second's apothecary,
Nicholas le Febre, or le Febure, compounded it for the royal use, and printed an account in
1664. Evelyn relates that he accompanied Charles to see the preparation in 1662. But le Febre,
Kenelm Digby, and Alexander Fraser tampered with the original. It is acknowledged that Fraser
added the flesh, heart, and liver of vipers, and the mineral unicorn. Other liberties, it may
be apprehended, were taken. The receipt as drawn up by le Febre reads like a botanist's catalogue
interpolated with oriental pearls, ambergris, and bezoardic stones, to add mystery. The old
London Pharmacopoeia gave a simpler receipt, in which the ingredients were zedoary and saffron,
distilled with crabs' claws, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, cardamom seeds, and sugar.

[Sidenote: Political Disquisitions.]

Physical science did not occupy all his leisure. He wrote much. At different periods of his
imprisonment, which cannot be precisely fixed, he composed a variety of treatises. He discussed
many questions of politics, theoretical and practical. In his Prerogative of Parliaments he
undertook to prove by an elaborate survey of past relations between the Crown and the Legislature,
that the royal power gains and does not lose through regular and amicable relations with the
House of Commons. The Savoy Marriage is a demonstrative argument against the proposed double
family alliance between Savoy and the House of Stuart. He composed A Discourse on War in General,
which is very sententious. From his notebooks he collected, in his Arts of the Empire and The
Prince, better known as Maxims of State, a series of wise, almost excessively wise, thoughts
which had occurred to him in the course of his eager reading. An essay on the Seat of Government,
and Observations concerning the Causes of the Magnificency and Opulency of Cities, show equal
exuberance of learning, chiefly classical, though they cannot be said to be very conclusive.
The former reads as if it had been meant for an introduction to a contemplated ampler view
of polity. He must have studied not merely general, but economic politics, if the Observations
touching Trade and Commerce with the Hollander and other Nations be by him. That remains a
matter of doubt. Both Oldys and a recent German writer ascribe the work, published under five
varying titles, to John Keymer, the Cambridge vintner, who is said to have composed, about
1601, Observations upon the Dutch Fishery. Ralegh more commonly has the credit of it. The dissertation,
first printed inaccurately, and under a different heading, in 1650, shows minute statistical
information, though it propounds, as might be expected, not a few economic fallacies. Its aim
is the not very generous one of abstracting the carrying trade from Holland. The author engages,
if he should be empowered to inquire officially, to enrich the King's coffers with a couple
of millions in two or three years.

[Sidenote: Moral and Metaphysical Essays.]

Ralegh is alleged to have written on the state, power, and riches of Spain. He has had attributed
to him a Premonition to Princes; A Dialogue, in 1609, between a Jesuit and a Recusant; A Discourse
on Spanish Cruelties to Englishmen in Havanna, and others on the relations of France, England,
and Spain, and the meaning of the words Law and Right. He expatiated in the field of practical
morals in his celebrated Instructions to his Son and to Posterity. The treatise makes an unpleasant
impression with its hard, selfish, and somewhat sensual dogmatism. In extenuation it must be
recollected that it was addressed to a hot and impetuous youth. He cultivated a taste for metaphysics.
The Sceptic and A Treatise on the Soul are exemplifications of it. The former, as it stands,
is an apology for 'neither affirming, nor denying, but doubting.' Probably the intention, not
carried out, was to have composed an answer in defence of faith. It is affirmed, as matter
beyond scepticism, that bees are born of bulls, and wasps of horses. The Treatise on the Soul
is a performance of more mark. The profusion of its learning is enough to prevent surprise,
whatever the quantity of knowledge displayed by the writer elsewhere. It is memorable for a
fine burst of indignation at the denial by some men that women possess souls, and for several
marvellous subtleties. For instance, the necessity of the theory that man begets soul as well
as body, is alleged, since the contrary is said to involve the blasphemous absurdity that God
assists adultery by having to bestow souls upon its fruits. In the Oxford edition of Ralegh's
works, A Discourse of Tenures which were before the Conquest is also included. So versatile
was Ralegh that he has thus been assumed to have even amassed the lore of a black-letter lawyer.
Its authenticity nevertheless does not seem to have been questioned. That of the Life and Death
of Mahomet has been, and on very sufficient grounds. The Dutiful Advice of a Loving Son to
his Aged Father falls within a different category. It is not more likely than Steele's counterfeit
letter in the Englishman to Prince Henry against the phrase 'God's Vicegerent,' or Bolingbroke's
attacks, in Ralegh's name, upon Walpole in the Craftsman Extraordinary, to have been put forth
with any notion that it would be believed to be his. Some editors have supposed it to be a
libel upon him by an enemy. Any reader who peruses it dispassionately will see that it is sufficiently
reverent pleading against the postponement of repentance to the hour of death, written by an
admirer of Ralegh's style, with no purpose either of ridicule or of imposture.

[Sidenote: Posthumous Publications.]

Dissertations which were undoubtedly his circulated in manuscript, and were printed posthumously,
if ever. A Report of the Truth of the Fight about the Isles of Azores, the Discovery of Guiana,
and the History of the World, alone of his many prose writings appeared in his lifetime. The
Prerogative of Parliaments in England was not published till 1628, and then first at Middleburg.
Milton had the Arts of Empire printed for the first time in 1658, under the title of The Cabinet
Council, by the ever-renowned Knight Sir Walter Ralegh. Dr. Brushfield, in his excellent Ralegh
Bibliography, suggests that Wood may have meant this essay by the Aphorisms of State, to which
he alludes as having been published in 1661 by Milton, and as identical with Maxims of State.
Others of his writings have disappeared altogether. David Lloyd, in his Observations on the
Statesmen and Favourites of England, published in 1665, states that John Hampden, shortly before
the Civil Wars, was at the charge of transcribing 3452 sheets of Ralegh's writing. The published
essays with his name attached to them do not nearly account for this vast mass. It may be suggested
as a possible hypothesis that Hampden's collection comprised the manuscript materials for both
parts of the History. Some compositions of his are known to have been lost. That has been the
fate of his Treatise of the West Indies, mentioned by himself in the dedication of his Discovery
of Guiana, and also of a Description of the River of the Amazons, if it were correctly assigned
to him by Wood. Most of all to be regretted, if Jonson or Drummond is to be believed, is the
life Jonson, at Hawthornden, alleged 'S.W.', that is, Sir Walter, to have written of Queen
Elizabeth, 'of which there are copies extant.' As a writer of prose, no less than as a poet,
he had little literary vanity. He wrote for a purpose, and often for one pair of eyes. When
the occasion had passed he did not care to register the author's title.

[Sidenote: History of the World.]

The weightiness of thought, the enormous scope, the stateliness without pedantry or affectation,
and the nobility of style, of one literary product of his imprisonment insured it against any
such casualty. Of all the enterprises ever achieved in captivity none can match the History
of the World. The authors of Pilgrim's Progress and Don Quixote showed more literary genius,
and as much elasticity of spirit. Their works did not exact the same constancy and inflexibility
of effort. Mr. Macvey Napier has well said: 'So vast a project betokens a consciousness of
intellectual power which cannot but excite admiration.' Ralegh may himself not have commenced
by realising the gigantic comprehensiveness of his undertaking. An accepted theory has been
that his primary idea was a history of his own country, not of the world. It has been usual
to cite a sentence of the preface in proof. The passage does not confirm the hypothesis. It
runs: 'Beginning with the Creation, I have proceeded with the history of our world; and lastly
proposed, some few sallies excepted, to confine my discourse within this our renowned island
of Great Britain.' Here is no intimation that he had begun by setting before him for his text
English history, and that the history of the world was an enlarged introduction. If his own
words are to be believed, his survey of universal antiquity was as much part of his scheme
as English history. Only, as he proceeded, the mass of details would necessarily thicken, and
he would be compelled to narrow his inquiries. Having to choose, he naturally selected the
nation which he regarded as the heir of successive empires, a race more valiant than the warriors,
whether of Macedon or of Rome. But he distinctly preferred as a historical subject antiquity
to recent times. Archbishop Sancroft possessed a short manuscript entitled a Breviary of the
History of England under William the First. This was printed in 1693 without the Archbishop's
consent, under the title An Introduction to the Breviary of the History of England, with the
Reign of King William I, entitled the Conqueror. Sancroft, a good judge, considered the work
in all its parts much like Ralegh's way of writing, and worthy of him. Though the language
is more careless than Ralegh's, and the tone is less elevated, there is a resemblance in the
diction. But much importance cannot be attached to a general similarity in the style of compositions
belonging to the same age. Sancroft had the manuscript from an old Presbyterian in Hertfordshire,
'which sort of men were always the more fond of Sir Walter's books because he was under the
displeasure of the Court.' Other manuscript copies also ascribe the authorship to Ralegh. The
book, which shows research, but is not very accurate, is almost identical with the corresponding
portion of the poet Samuel Daniel's Collection of the History of England, printed in 1618,
and entered originally in the Register of the Stationers as a Breviary of the History of England.
Daniel introduces his narrative with the words: 'For the work itself I can challenge nothing
therein, but only the serving, and the observation of necessary circumstances with inferences.'
Ralegh, though it is not very likely, may have given the fragment to Daniel for use in his
history. Clearly he had formed a project of writing a history of England himself. In an undated
letter from the Tower he asks Sir Robert Cotton to lend him thirteen authors, 'wherein I can
read any of our written antiquities, or any old French history, wherein our nation is mentioned,
or any else in what language soever.' It is not impossible that the Breviary, if in any way
it were his, led him on to his gigantic enterprise, which by its expansion, unfortunately or
fortunately, usurped all the leisure he had prospectively appropriated to his native annals.
But the composition of an elaborate history by him was no accident, though the choice of the
particular subject may have been.

[Sidenote: Studies for the History.]

Whatever the original design, the History in its final shape demanded encyclopædic research
and learning. Necessarily the preparation for it and its composition employed several years.
The number is not known. Ralegh is alleged to have begun to collect and arrange his matter
in 1607. The date is purely conjectural. Sir John Pope Hennessy imagines that the preliminary
investigations may be traced much farther back. Ralegh quotes in his book Peter Comestor's
Scholastica Historia, an abstract of Scripture history, which has been found, with other remnants
of an old monastic library, in a recess behind the wainscot of Ralegh's bedroom, next to his
study in the house at Youghal. Mr. Samuel Hayman, the historiographer of Youghal, writing in
1852, states that the discovery was made a few years before, and that the books had probably
been 'hidden at the period of the Reformation.' Sir John conjectures that Ralegh may have been
taking notes from the collection 'for the opus magnum during his frequent Irish exiles.' An
objection is that, according to Mr. Hayman, the authority cited by Sir John, Comestor's volume,
with its companions, must have been secreted before Ralegh resided at Youghal, and have remained
concealed till he had been dead for two centuries. In one sense he had been in training for
the enterprise during his whole life; in another the actual work doubtless was accomplished
after he felt that he was destined to a long term of imprisonment. He had always been a lover
of books. In the midst of his adversities he spared £50 as a contribution towards the establishment
of the Bodleian Library. When he was most deeply immersed in affairs he had made time for study.
As Aubrey says, probably with complete truth, he was no slug, and was up betimes to read. On
every voyage he carried a trunk full of books. During his active life, when business occupied
thirteen hours of the twenty-four, he is said by Shirley to have reduced his sleeping hours
to five. He was thus able to devote four to study, beside two for conversation. He loved research;
and his name is in a list of members of the Society of Antiquaries formed by Archbishop Parker,
which, though subsequently dissolved, was the precursor of the present learned body bearing
the name. In the Tower he could read without stint. He possessed a fair library. From the company
of his books, writes Sir John Harington, he drew more true comfort than ever from his courtly
companions in their chiefest bravery.

[Sidenote: Care for Accuracy.]

Formerly, his reading necessarily had been desultory. For his History it had to be concentrated.
He distrusted the exactness of his information, and was willing to accept advice freely. For
criticism, Greek, Mosaic, Oriental and remoter antiquities, he consulted the learned Robert
Burhill. Hariot had since 1606 been lodging or boarding in the Tower at the charge of the munificent
Earl of Northumberland. He, Hues, and Warner were the Earl's 'three magi.' For chronology,
mathematics, and geography, Ralegh relied upon him. 'Whenever he scrupled anything in phrase
or diction,' he would refer his doubt to that accomplished serjeant-at-law, John Hoskyns or
Hoskins. Hoskyns, now remembered, if at all, by some poor little epigrams, belongs to the class
of paragons of one age, whose excellence later ages have to take on trust. He is described
by an admirer as the most ingenious and admired poet of his time. Wotton loved his company.
Ben Jonson considered him his 'father' in literature: ''Twas he that polished me.' In the summer
of 1614 he became, in consequence of a speech in the House of Commons, Ralegh's fellow prisoner.
He is said to have revised the History before it went to press. Ralegh's intense desire to
secure accuracy, his avowal of it, and its notoriety, have given occasion for charges against
his title to the credit of the total result. Ben Jonson and Algernon Sidney are the only independent
authorities for the calumny. But it has been caught up by other writers, especially by Isaac
D'Israeli, who seems to have thought charges brought, as Mr. Bolton Corney showed, on the flimsiest
evidence, of an impudent assumption of false literary plumage, in no way inconsistent with
fervid admiration for the alleged pretender.

[Sidenote: Borrowed Learning.]

Ben Jonson was associated incidentally in the work. He prefaced it with a set of anonymous
verses explanatory of an allegorical frontispiece. The manuscript of them was found among his
papers. They have always been included in his Underwoods. Though the version there differs
materially from that prefixed to the History, no reasonable doubt of his authorship of both
exists. His omission openly to claim the lines is supposed, not unreasonably, by Mr. Edwards,
to have been due to his fear of the prejudice his favour at Court might sustain from an open
connexion with a fame so odious there as Ralegh's. But a year after Ralegh's death he boasted
over his liquor to civil sneering Drummond at Hawthornden, of other 'considerable' contributions.
He had written, he said, 'a piece to him of the Punic War, which Sir Walter altered and set
in his book.' In general, the best wits of England were, he asserted, engaged in the production.
Algernon Sidney, in his posthumous Discourses concerning Government, repeated this insinuation
of borrowed plumes of learning. Ralegh, he stated, was 'so well assisted in his History of
the World, that an ordinary man with the same helps might have performed the same thing.' This
is all bare assertion, and refuted by the internal evidence of the volume itself, which in
its remarkable consistency of style, method and thought, testifies to its emanation from a
single mind. Ralegh had himself explained with a manly frankness, which ought to have disarmed
suspicion, the extent to which alone he was indebted for assistance. In his preface he admits
he was altogether ignorant of Hebrew. When a Hebrew passage did not occur in Arias Montanus,
or in the Latin character in Sixtus Senensis, he was at a loss. 'Of the rest,' he says, 'I
have borrowed the interpretation of some of my learned friends; yet, had I been beholden to
neither, yet were it not to be wondered at; having had an eleven years' leisure to attain to
the knowledge of that or any other tongue.' As a whole, the History must be recognised as truly
his own, his not only in its multitude of grand thoughts and reflections, but in the narrative
and general texture. It cannot be the less his that some of the 660 authors it cites may have
been searched for him by assistants.

[Sidenote: Period of Publication.]

As early as 1611 he must have settled the scheme, and even the title, of the book. On April
15 in that year notice was given in the Registers of the Stationers' Company of 'The History
of the World, written by Sir Walter Rawleighe.' Part may be presumed to have been by that time
written, and shown to Prince Henry. Three years passed before actual publication. Camden fixes
that on March 29, 1614. Though it is almost impossible to think Camden in error, yet, if the
story of the perusal of the manuscript by Serjeant Hoskyns be true, and apply, as has been
presumed, to the period of the Serjeant's imprisonment, the publication must have been half
a year or more later. The later date would also accord better with a rumour of the suppression
of the volume at the beginning of 1615. The publisher was Walter Burre, of the sign of the
Crane in St. Paul's Churchyard. Burre published several works for Ben Jonson; and out of that
circumstance has been constructed the statement that Jonson superintended the publication of
the History for Ralegh. The form was that of a massive folio, at a price vaguely put by Alexander
Ross at 'twenty or thirty shillings.' The edition was struck off in two issues, the errata
of the first being corrected in the second. None of the extant copies of either issue possess
a title-page, or contain any mention of the writer's name. The explanation may be the modesty
or the pride which had led him habitually to neglect the personal glory of authorship, apprehension
of the odium in which his name was held at Court, or a reason which will be mentioned hereafter.
There is an engraved frontispiece by Renold Elstracke, the most elaborate of its kind known
in English bibliography. A naval battle in the North Atlantic is depicted, and the course of
the river Orinoko, with various symbolical figures. Ben Jonson's lines point its application.
All the pages of the volume bear the heading, 'The First Part of the History of the World.'

[Sidenote: Defects.]

[Sidenote: Merits.]

For modern readers a defect of the work is the learning, which was the wonder and admiration
of contemporaries. Since Ralegh's time the historical method, and historical criticism, have
been entirely changed. The mass of historical evidences has been immensely increased, and their
quality is as different as their quantity. Ralegh had studied the researches of his learned
contemporaries. He had expended much thought on the reconciliation of apparent inconsistencies.
From the point of view of his own time he was successful. Often he satisfied others better
than himself. Thus, he acknowledges with vexation his inability to divide exactly the seventy
years of the Jewish captivity among the successive kings of Babylon. Had he been not merely
a disciple of the great scholars of his age, but himself a pioneer, his dissertations and conclusions
would equally have been drowned in the flood of later knowledge. His information is become
superannuated. The metaphysical subtleties which he loved to introduce no longer delight or
surprise. With all this there is much in the work which can never be obsolete, or cease to
interest and charm. He himself is always near at hand, sometimes in front. He does not shun
to be discerned in the evening of a tempestuous life, crippled with wounds aching and uncured.
He does not repress, he hails, opportunities for sallying outside his subject. He is easily
tempted to tell of the tactics by which the Armada was vanquished, and how the battle might
have had another issue had Howard been misled by malignant fools that found fault. He recollects
how he won Fayal. He pauses in his narrative of Alexander's victories to glorify English courage.
He does homage to the invincible constancy of Spain, and avows her right to all its rewards,
if she would 'but not hinder the like virtue in others.' The story suddenly gleams with flashes
of natural eloquence and insight. Nowhere is there stagnation. His characters are very human,
and very dramatic. King Artaxerxes is shown wearing a manly look when half a mile off, till
the Greeks, for whom the bravery was not meant, espied his golden eagle, and drew rudely near.
Queen Jezebel is visible and audible, with her paint, which more offended the dogs' paunches
than her scolding tongue troubled the ears of Jehu, struggling in vain with base grooms, who
contumeliously did hale and thrust her. There Demetrius revels, discovering at length in luxurious
captivity the happiness he had convulsed the world with travail and bloodshed to attain. Pyrrhus
is painted to the life, flying from one adventure to another, which was indeed the disease
he had, whereof not long after he died in Argos. Characters are drawn with an astonishing breadth,
depth, and decision. Nothing in Tacitus surpasses the epitaph on Epaminondas, the worthiest
man that ever was bred in that nation of Greece. Everywhere are happy expressions, with wisdom
beneath. It is a history for the nurture of virtuous citizens and generous kings, for the confusion
of sensuality and selfishness.

[Sidenote: The Moral.]

The narrative rises and falls with the occasion; it is always bright and apt. Charles James
Fox bracketed Bacon, Ralegh, and Hooker, as the three writers of prose who most enriched the
English language in the period between 1588 and 1640. The diction of the History establishes
Ralegh's title to the praise. It is clear, flowing, elastic, and racy, and laudably free, as
Hallam has testified, from the affectation and passion for conceits, the snare of contemporary
historians, preachers, and essayists. If Pope, as Spence represents, rejected Ralegh's works
as 'too affected' for one of the foundations of an English dictionary, he must have been talking
at random. At all events, he contradicted his own judgment deliberately expressed in authentic
verse. For style, for wit, mother wit and Court wit, and for a pervading sense that the reader
is in the presence of a sovereign spirit, the History of the World will, to students now as
to students of old, vindicate its rank as a classic. But its true grandeur is in the scope
of the conception, which exhibits a masque of the Lords of Earth, 'great conquerors, and other
troublers of the world,' rioting in their wantonness and savagery, as if Heaven cared not or
dared not interpose, yet made to pay in the end to the last farthing of righteous vengeance.
They are paraded paying it often in their own persons, wrecked, ruined, humiliated; and always
in those of their descendants. At times it has seemed as if God saw not. In truth 'He is more
severe unto cruel tyrants than only to hinder them of their wills.' Israelite judges, Assyrian
kings, Alexander, the infuriate and insatiable conqueror, May-game monarchs like Darius, Rehoboam
with his 'witless parasites,' so unlike wise, merciful, generous King James and his, Antiochus,
'acting and deliberating at once, in the inexplicable desire of repugnancies, which is a disease
of great and overswelling fortunes,' Consul Æmilius, sacking all innocent Epirus to show his
vigour, down to Henry the Eighth, 'pattern of a merciless prince,' none of them escaped without
penalties in their households; none elude their condemnation and sentences, sometimes, as in
the case of Alexander, it may be deemed, a little too austere, before the tribunal of posterity.
On moves the world's imperial pageant; now slowly and somewhat heavily, through the domain
of Scriptural annals, with theological pitfalls at every step for the reputed free-thinker;
now, as Greek and Roman confines are reached, with more ease and animation; always under the
conduct as if of a Heaven-commissioned teacher with a message to rulers, that no 'cords have
ever lasted long but those which have been twisted by love only.' Throughout are found an instinct
of the spirit of events and their doers, a sense that they are to be judged as breathing beings,
and not as mummies, an affection for nobility of aim and virtuous conduct, a scorn of rapacity,
treachery, selfishness, and cruelty, which account better for the rapture of contemporaries,
than for the neglect of the History of the World in the present century.

[Sidenote: Popular Favour.]

It was hailed enthusiastically both by a host of illustrious persons and by the general public.
The applause rolled thundering on. The work was for Cromwell a library of the classics. He
recommended it with enthusiasm in a letter to his son Richard. Hampden was a devoted student
of it, as of Ralegh's other writings. It was a text-book of Puritans, in whose number, Ralegh
says, if the Dialogue with a Jesuit be his, he was reckoned, though unjustly. They had forgotten
or forgiven under James his enmity to their old idol Essex. The admiration of Nonconformists
did not deter Churchmen and Cavaliers from extolling it. Bishop Hall, in his Consolations,
writes of 'an eminent person, to whose imprisonment we are obliged, besides many philosophical
experiments, for that noble History of the World. The Tower reformed the courtier in him.'
Montrose fed his boyish fancy upon its pictures of great deeds. Unless for a few prejudiced
and narrow minds it, 'the most God-fearing and God-seeing history known of among human writings,'
as Mr. Kingsley has described it, swept away the old calumny of its author's scepticism. All
ranks welcomed it as a classic. That Princess Elizabeth made it her travelling companion is
proved by the history of the British Museum copy of the 1614 edition, which formed part of
her luggage captured by the Spaniards at Prague in 1620, and recovered by the Swedes in 1648.
With the King alone it found no favour. Contemporaries believed that he was jealous of Ralegh's
literary ability and fame. Causes rather less base for his distaste for the book may be assigned.
Ralegh had endeavoured to guard in his preface against a suspicion that, in speaking of the
Past, he pointed at the Present, and taxed the vices of those that are yet living in their
persons that are long since dead. He had interspersed encomiums upon his own sovereign, the
'temperate, revengeless, liberal, wise, and just,' though 'he may err.' His doctrine was, as
he has written in his Cabinet Council, that 'all kings, the bad as well as the good, must be
endured' by their subjects. The murder even of tyrants is deprecated, as 'followed by inconveniences
worse than civil war.' But posterity he did not think was debarred from judging worthless rulers;
and he tried them in his History. In the eyes of James such freedom of speech, especially in
Ralegh, was lèse majesté. An explanation by himself of his ill-will to the book, which has
been handed down by Osborn, has an air of verisimilitude. In his Memoirs on King James, Osborn
relates that 'after much scorn cast upon Ralegh's History, the King, being modestly demanded
what fault he found, answered, as one surprised, that Ralegh had spoken irreverently of King
Henry the Eighth.' He would be more indignant on his own account than on that of King Henry,
against whom, says Osborn, 'none ever exclaimed more than usually himself.' James discovered
his own features in the outlined face of Ninias, 'esteemed no man of war at all, but altogether
feminine, and subjected to ease and delicacy,' the successor of valiant Queen Semiramis, too
laborious a princess, as Ralegh held, to have been vicious.

[Sidenote: Threatened Suppression.]

Commonly it has been believed that the King's sympathy with his caste provoked him to the monstrosity
of an attempt to stifle its censor's volume. Chamberlain wrote to Carleton at Venice on January
5, 1615: 'Sir Walter Ralegh's book is called in by the King's commandment, for divers exceptions,
but specially for being too saucy in censuring princes. I hear he takes it much to heart, for
he thought he had won his spurs, and pleased the King extraordinarily.' The author of the Observations
on Sanderson's History in 1656 writes to the same effect, but somewhat less definitely: 'It
is well known King James forbad the book for some passages in it which offended the Spaniards,
and for being too plain with the faults of princes in his preface.' There is no other evidence,
and the majority of Ralegh's biographers have simply accepted the fact on the authority of
Chamberlain's assertion. Yet it is almost incredible that so extreme an act of prerogative,
carried out against so remarkable a work, should have been suffered to pass without popular
protests. Ralegh and his wife never complained; and they were not given to suffering in silence.
Copies of the first edition are extant in an abundance which, though not absolutely contradictory
to the tale, renders it unlikely. Dr. Brushfield, who has made the history of the publication
his especial study, conjectures that a compromise with the royal censorship was effected on
the terms that a title-page, which he thinks the first, like all subsequent editions, originally
contained, should be removed, leaving the volume apparently anonymous. The surmise is ingenious;
but it is very hard to believe that such an arrangement, if made, would have excited no discussion.
Chamberlain's language, moreover, implies that the book was already in circulation. It would
be exceedingly strange if its previous purchasers had the docility to eliminate the title-page
from their copies, in deference to an order certainly not very emphatically promulgated. The
readiest explanation is that Chamberlain, in his haste to give his correspondent early information,
reported to him a rumour, and perhaps a threat, upon which James happily had not the hardihood
to act.

[Sidenote: Successive Editions.]

[Sidenote: Two Fables.]

At all events, the book weathered the storm of royal displeasure, however manifested. A second
edition appeared in 1617. Down to the standard Oxford collection of Ralegh's works in 1829,
which includes it, eight have been published since. The last folio edition appeared, with a
biography by the editor, Oldys, in 1736. Gibbon commends it as the best which had to that time
appeared, though it is open to charges of gross carelessness in the printer, and of arbitrary
alterations by the editor, to the injury of the sense. The work was popular enough to attract
epitomists. Alexander Ross, in 1650, condensed it into his Marrow of History, which is rather
its dry bones. Philip Ralegh, Sir Walter's grandson, in 1698 printed an abridgment. The Tubus
Historicus, or Historical Perspective, published in 1631, a brief summary of the fortunes of
the four great ancient Empires, which bears Ralegh's name on the title-page, suggests rather
the hand of a book-maker. For half a century from the time of the original issue it was an
accepted classic. No folio of the period, it has been said, approached it in circulation. Its
success tempted Alexander Ross to put forth in 1652 a second part, B.C. 160 to A.D. 1640. The
popular favour was enough to have encouraged the author to continue his own design. Two explanations
of his interruption of it have been invented. For the first, the eldest authority is W. Winstanley's
English Worthies, published in 1660. Winstanley, whom Aubrey follows, relates that Ralegh,
a few days before his execution, asked Burre how that work of his had sold. So slowly, answered
Burre, that it had undone him. The story is impossible, if only for the circumstance that the
publication notoriously was not a failure. At the period to which the fable is assigned a second
edition had been printed. So rapid was its sale, furthered, it may be admitted, by the circumstances
of the author's death, that a third edition appeared in 1621. As, moreover, has been with prosaic
common sense observed, a manuscript of some 1000 printed pages would have taken very long to burn.

The other story is still more complicated, and, if possible, more insolently mythical. John
Pinkerton, writing under the name of Robert Heron, Esq., in 1785, in his eccentric Letters
on Literature, is its source. According to him Ralegh, who had just completed the manuscript
of a second volume, looking from his window into a court-yard, saw a man strike an officer
near a raised stone. The officer drew his sword, and ran his assailant through. The man, as
he fell, knocked the officer down, and died. His corpse and the stunned officer were carried
off. Next day Ralegh mentioned the affray to a visitor of known probity and honour. His acquaintance
informed him he was entirely in error. The seeming officer, he said, a servant of the Spanish
Ambassador, struck the first blow. The other snatched out the servant's sword, and with it
slew him. A bystander wrested away the sword, and a foreigner in the crowd struck down the
murderer, while other foreigners bore off their comrade's body. The narrator, to Ralegh's assurances
that he could not be mistaken, since he had witnessed the whole affair as it happened round
the stone, replied that neither could he be, for he was the bystander, and on that very stone
he had been standing. He showed Ralegh a scratch on the cheek he had received in pulling away
the sword. Ralegh did not persist in his version. As soon as his friend was gone, he cast his
manuscript into the fire. If he could not properly estimate an event under his own eyes, he
despaired of appreciating human acts done thousands of years before he was born. 'Truth!' he
cried, 'I sacrifice to thee.' Pinkerton, whose judgment and veracity were not equal to his
learning, led astray both Guizot and Carlyle. Carlyle talks of 'the old story, still a true
lesson for us.'

[Sidenote: The Fact.]

Of the extent to which Ralegh had proceeded in the continuation of his work he had himself
informed the public. In his preface he 'forbears to promise a second or third volume, which
he intends if the first receives grace and good acceptance; for that which is already done
may be thought enough and too much.' At the conclusion he wrote: 'Whereas this book calls itself
the first part of the General History of the World, implying a second and third volume, which
I also intended, and have hewn out; besides many other discouragements persuading my silence,
it hath pleased God to take that glorious prince out of the world, to whom they were directed.'
His language points evidently to the collection of 'apparatus for the second volume,' as Aubrey
says. It may have comprised very possibly not a few such scattered gems of thought and rich
experience as are the glory of the printed volume. A Ralegh Society, should it ever be instituted,
might have the honour of disinterring and reuniting some of them. No less clearly he indicates
that he had not advanced beyond the preliminary processes of inquiry and meditation.

[Sidenote: The Prerogative of Parliaments.]

The motive for his abandonment at this point of the thorough realization of his plan was probably
a combination of disturbing causes, disappointment, hope, and rival occupations. Prince Henry's
favour had brought liberty and restitution very close. With a nature like his the abrupt catastrophe
did not benumb; it even stimulated; but it took the flavour out of many of his pursuits. He
could no longer indulge in learned ease, and trust for his rehabilitation to spontaneous respect
and sympathy. The near breath of freedom had set his nerves throbbing too vehemently for him
to be able to settle down, as if for an eternity of literary leisure, to tasks like the History
of the World, or the Art of War by Sea. He began working mines as busily as ever, but in new
directions. He sought to make himself recognised as necessary either by the King or by the
nation. With the sanguine elasticity which no failures could damp, he tried to storm his way
as a politician into the royal confidence a few months after he is said to have experienced
as a scholar an effect of the King's invincible prejudice. At some period after May, 1615,
he wrote, and dedicated to James, an imaginary dialogue between a Counsellor of State and a
Justice of the Peace. Under the title of The Prerogative of Parliaments in England it was published
first posthumously in 1628, at Middleburg. In his lifetime it circulated in manuscript copies.

[Sidenote: Hallam's Misconception.]

A conspicuous instance of the misconceptions of which he was the habitual victim is the view
taken of this treatise by Algernon Sidney, and by the judicious and fair-minded Hallam. Its
object was to influence the King to call a Parliament. Ralegh's point of view of the royal
prerogative was, it must be admitted and remembered, that of a Tudor courtier. It was very
different from that which the Long Parliament learnt and taught. But it was liberal for his
own day, according to a Tudor standard of liberalism. It was too liberal for the taste of the
Court of James. Hallam has caught at some phrases couched in the adulatory style, 'so much,'
Hallam allows, 'among the vices of the age, that the want of it passed for rudeness.' Ralegh
told James in his dedication that 'the bonds of subjects to their kings should always be wrought
out of iron, the bonds of kings unto subjects but with cobwebs.' Sidney had already protested
against these obsequious phrases; and to Hallam they seem 'terrible things.' He is equally
horrified by a statement in the dialogue that Philip II 'attempted to make himself not only
an absolute monarch over the Netherlands, like unto the Kings of England and France, but Turk
like to tread under his feet all their national and fundamental laws, privileges, and ancient
rights.' The tenor of the essay itself only has to be equitably considered to enable its readers
to place a more lenient construction than Hallam's even upon the former sentence. Ralegh merely
was pursuing his object, with some carelessness, after his manner, as to form. Throughout he
endeavoured to sweeten advice he knew to be unpalatable, by assurances that the King need not
fear his prerogative would be permanently impaired by deference to the representatives of the
people. The language is, for the nineteenth century, indefensible. Taken in connexion with
the general argument, it resolves itself into a courtly seventeenth century solace to the monarch
for an obligatory return to Parliamentary government.

[Sidenote: Not shared by James.]

For the second quotation such an excuse is scarcely requisite. The theories of the royal prerogative
in France and in England were not originally dissimilar, profoundly unlike as was the practice.
Since, as well as before, the Revolution of 1689, the absolute character of the English sovereignty
has been a common theory of lawyers. Blackstone, writing in the reign of George the Third,
asserts dogmatically that an English King is absolute in the exercise of his prerogative. Blackstone
was able to find room beside an absolute prerogative for the national liberties and Parliamentary
privileges. So was Ralegh able. His language seems now unconstitutional, when, in his Maxims
of State, he distinguishes the English 'Empire' from a 'limited Kingdom'; or when, in this
Prerogative of Parliaments, he declares that 'the three Estates do but advise, as the Privy
Council doth.' To him, however, 'limited' meant more than now, and 'absolute' less. He saw
no inconsistency between the theory of royal absolutism and the application of popular checks.
Their reconciliation was the purpose of the essay of 1615. That was evident to many excellent
patriots of the next reign, who circulated and gloried in a composition which proved the writer
their fellow worker. It was too apparent, though not to Hallam, to James, for the dissertation
to move him to any kindness. The basis and principle of the discussion affronted all his prejudices.
He was not to be beguiled by admissions of his theoretical omnipotence into affection for a
wise and constitutional policy, which recognised popular rights. He had no inclination to traverse
the golden bridge Ralegh had built for his return within the lines, whether of the Constitution,
or of personal justice. In all relations Ralegh was antipathetic to James without consciousness
of it. He could declare his implicit belief, in consonance with strict constitutional orthodoxy,
that the King loved the liberties of his people, and that none but evil counsellors intercepted
the signs of his liberality. He could acknowledge the tender benignity of his sovereign to
himself, and throw upon betrayers of the royal trust the shame of his persecution. He could
be excessively deferential and grateful in words and demeanour. He could not but act and reason
with a mental independence as hateful to James as to Henry Howard, and as condemnatory. Whether
he discoursed on Assyrian or on English politics, or on his private wrongs, he sat visibly
on the seat of judgment. Nothing but tame silence and spiritual petrifaction could have made
his peace at the Stuart Court. It was the one kind of fealty he was incapable of rendering.

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE RELEASE (March, 1616).

[Sidenote: How his Fetters fell off.]

No merits of his, and no sense of justice to him, opened, or ever would have opened, his prison
doors. But at length it was become inconvenient to keep him under duress. The gaolers who cared
to detain him were gone. In their places stood others who had an interest in sending him forth,
though with a chain on his ankle. He could never have been brought to trial on a fantastic
charge, or been convicted without evidence, unless for the weight of popular odium, which enabled
the new Court to trample upon the favourite of the old. Without that he could not have been
kept for long years in prison. Gradually the nation forgot its habit of dislike, which never
had much foundation. Englishmen remembered his mighty deeds. They honoured him as the representative
of a glorious and dead past. His fetters were of themselves falling off. Special circumstances
helped to shake him free of them. He had protested ineffectually in the name of right. He had
pleaded to deaf ears for liberty to serve his country. At length an impression had been produced
that the prosecution of his policy might bring money into other coffers beside his own.

He had never ceased to plan the establishment of English colonies in Virginia and Guiana. He
regarded both countries as his, and as English by priority of discovery or occupation. From
the fragments of his broken fortunes the captive of the Tower had managed to fit out or subsidize
expeditions at intervals to both. Every few years the Guiana Indians in particular were reminded
by messages from him that their deliverance from the Spaniards was at hand. To Englishmen ores
and plants from Guiana recalled the riches of the land, and their title to it. Thus, in December,
1609, we hear that Sir Walter Ralegh had a ship come from Guiana laden with gold ore. His chase
after freedom was stimulated by visions of himself once more a leader, and the founder of an
empire. The thought grew to be a passion, and almost a monomania.

[Sidenote: Petitions to the Queen.]

To gain permission to hazard life, health, and reputation in the western seas, he was ready
to subscribe to the most grotesque conditions, which, however, do not seem to have impressed
contemporaries as extravagant. He had hoped that the Queen Consort might consent to be lady
patroness of his project. In 1611 he solicited her formally. He proffered by letter his service
in Virginia. It was his name for Guiana, in order not to alarm pro-Spanish jealousies. He had
been suspected of a design to fly from England under cover of a voyage of discovery. The Queen
had faith in him, and he entreated her to give her word for him to mistrustful Cecil. He was
willing, if he should not be on his way to America by a day set, to forfeit life and estate.
As a security against turning aside to some foreign European Court after his departure from
England, he would leave his wife and two sons as his pledges. His wife, whom we can see stooping
over him, and dictating the words, 'shall yield herself to death, if I perform not my duty
to the King.' If this sufficed not, the masters and mariners might have orders, if he offered
to sail elsewhere, to cast him into the sea. Again in 1611 he addressed the Queen. Previously
he had propounded to Cecil a scheme for a Guiana expedition, of which he now sent her a copy.
He besought her influence on its behalf. She would be acting for the King's sake, that 'all
presumption might be taken from his enemies, arising from the want of treasure.' He was scarcely
pleading, he said, for himself. 'My extreme shortness of breath doth grow so fast, with the
despair of obtaining so much grace to walk with my keeper up the hill within the Tower, as
it makes me resolve that God hath otherwise disposed of that business, and of me.'

[Sidenote: Golden Bait.]

At this time interest in Guiana and its precious metals had revived. Ralegh had some morsels
of merquisite he had himself picked up assayed by a refiner. The man found gold in them. These,
or other specimens of Guiana ores, Sir Amias Preston, his old adversary, had seen. Preston
had extolled them to Cecil. Ralegh may have discussed their virtues with Cecil in the Tower
at one of the interviews in the laboratory, when, he complains, the Minister would listen,
inquire, talk of the assay, hold out hopes, and then retreat into an arrière boutique, in which
he lay unapproachable. A letter to Cecil, with the uncertainty of date which breaks the hearts
of Ralegh's biographers, says: 'I have heard that Sir Amias Preston informed your Lordship
of certain mineral stones brought from Guiana, of which your Lordship had some doubt--for so
you had at my first return--secondly, that your Lordship thought it but an invention of mine
to procure unto myself my former liberty; suspicions which might rightly form into the cogitations
of a wise man.' He assured Cecil that a mountain near the river contained 'an abundance sufficient
to please every appetite.' Once he had thought the stones valueless, like other merquisite.
He had been convinced of his error by the refiner, who was willing to go and be 'hanged there
if he prove not his assay to be good.' To avert suspicion that he meant to become a runagate,
Ralegh was ready not to command, but to ship as a private man. He repeated his strange offer
to be cast into the sea if he should persuade a contrary course. The cost would be no more
than £5000. 'Of that, if the Queen's Majesty, to whom I am bound for her compassion, and your
Lordship will bear two parts, I and my friends will bear a third. Your Lordship may have gold
good and cheap, and may join others of your honourable friends in the matter, if you please.
For there is enough. The journey may go under the colour of Virginia. We will break no peace;
invade none of the Spanish towns. We will see none of that nation, except they assail us.'
His intention was to melt down the mineral on the spot into ingots, 'for to bring all in ore
would be notorious.' In 1610 he had written to a trusted friend of James, John Ramsay, then
Viscount Haddington, and later Earl of Holderness, with similar proposals. He would follow
Ramsay as a private man, or others, and if he recommended a different course was willing to
be drowned. Then, 'if I bring them not to a mountain, near a navigable river, covered with
gold and silver ore, let the commander have commission to cut off my head there.' Or he would
give a £40,000 bond to boot.

[Sidenote: Overtures to the Council.]

In 1611, or 1612, he alternated his overtures to the Queen with others to Lords of the Council,
who, it may be gathered from a letter of his, agreed to become joint-adventurers with him.
A plan had been started for sending Captain Keymis with two ships to Guiana, and enough men
to defend him 'from the Spaniards inhabiting upon Orenoche, not that it is meant to begin any
quarrel with them, except themselves shall begin the war.' Captain Moate, servant of Ralegh's
friend, Sir John Watts, had come the last spring 'from St. Thome, where the Spaniards inhabit.'
According to him Keymis might safely go the five miles from the river to his mountain. In this
way he could bring from the mine 'half a ton of that slate gold ore, whereof I gave a sample
to my Lord Knevett.' In default, all the charge of the journey should be laid upon himself.
He was contented to adventure all he had but his reputation upon Keymis's memory. He warned
the Lords, that 'there is no hope, after this trial made, to fetch any more riches from thence.'
But he submitted to the wisdom of the King and their Lordships. 'Only, if half a ton be brought
home, then I shall have my liberty, and in the meanwhile my free pardon under the Great Seal,
to be left in his Majesty's hands till the end of the journey.' That precaution later he omitted,
and paid the penalty of dealing in good faith with crowned and coroneted pettifoggers. At all
events, the present proposal gave full notice to members of the Council of the existence of
a Spanish settlement on the Orinoko, which subsequently Ralegh was accused of having perfidiously
concealed from the King.

[Sidenote: Other Voyagers to Guiana.]

His projects, prayers, and expeditions came to nothing at the time. They were not without their
effect. They kept the thought of Guiana before the nation. As James in his Declaration afterwards
asserted, the confident asseveration of that which every man was willing to believe, enchanted
the world. To a certain degree it influenced the King and Court. James was not of a nature
to undervalue dignities and opportunities of wealth. While he imprisoned the explorer, he had
asserted the title to Guiana acquired through him. He commissioned Captain Charles Leigh in
1604, and, after his death, Captain Robert Harcourt in 1608, to take possession of all from
the Amazon to the Dessequebe, with the neighbouring islands. The result was a settlement on
the Oyapoco. After three years the colonists abandoned the enterprise, and returned to England.
Harcourt experienced the effect of the local renown of Ralegh, and of the success of his efforts
to keep alive the recollection of the fealty once offered through him to England. Leonard the
Indian, who had resided in England three or four years with Ralegh, obtained for Harcourt supplies
he sorely needed. The help was rendered in the belief, says Ralegh, that Harcourt was a follower
of his. The natives visited Harcourt's vessel dressed in European clothes, which Ralegh had
sent them the year before. They were disappointed at not finding him in command. Leigh's and
Harcourt's expeditions confirmed his assertions of the immense possibilities of the country.
Harcourt expressly stated his 'satisfaction that there be rich mines in the country.' The actual
fruits were so meagre as to demonstrate that supreme capacity was needed to extract its treasures.

Ralegh's adversaries, including James, were as persuaded as his friends of his unbounded ability.
They hated him for it. They were covetous of gold and territory. They thought he might justify
his boasts, and enrich them as well as himself, if he were let go. Failure, on the other hand,
would, they calculated, blast his power to hurt. At all events, in the existing popular mood,
it was easier to despatch him at his own expense for their contingent gain to America, than
to confine him in the Tower. Their personal relations with Spain supplied rather a motive for
his liberation for such a purpose than a fatal objection. James longed for a family league
with the Escurial. Spain was reserved and proud, and responded coldly to his advances. He did
not care what harm came to Ralegh, upon whom, as Mr. Gardiner says, he knew the Spaniards would
fall wherever they found him. Meanwhile he hoped to warm his coy allies by letting loose upon
the Spanish Main their and his inveterate aversion. Ralegh was a convenient firebrand to show
Spain the harm England, if an enemy, could do. He was a scapegoat to immolate in proof of all
England was prepared to sacrifice in return for Spain's love. Suddenly, for many mixed reasons,
it was decided to free him. He was to be licensed to discover gold mines and affirm the English
title to the Orinoko.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's Opportunity.]

[Sidenote: King Christian.]

He himself was at the moment in a strong position for demanding liberty and a commission. The
arms and hands which had, according to his expression, abused their Sovereign's borrowed authority
to fling stones at him, were now, as with doubtful discretion as well as taste he reminded
James in the Prerogative of Parliaments, 'most of them already rotten.' Robert Cecil, though
nowise to be ranked with Howard as demoniacally malevolent, had evinced no disposition to release
him. Certainly he would, if only for Ralegh's own sake, not have abetted his wild quest of
Guiana gold. But he too was dead. Robert Carr was worse than dead. The terrible exposure of
his and his wife's crimes had made James and his counsellors peculiarly sensitive to public
opinion. Hallam thinks it 'more likely than anything else that James had listened to some criminal
suggestion from Overbury and Somerset, and that, through apprehension of this being disclosed,
he had pusillanimously acquiesced in the scheme of Overbury's murder.' That is Hallam's deliberate
view of the King who claimed the right to sit in judgment on Ralegh. The country entertained
a similar suspicion. It might have been dangerous to hold a national hero confined under the
same prison roof with the principals in the crime. Moreover, a sympathetic politician, Sir
Ralph Winwood, was Secretary of State. Personally, Winwood was in high favour with the King,
notwithstanding discrepancies in their estimates of the value of a Spanish alliance. Of that
he and Archbishop Abbot both were vehement opponents. They thought Ralegh a likely instrument
for bringing about a collision with Spain in the most advantageous circumstances. For the moment
Winwood's admiration of Ralegh and dislike of Spain, and the King's contrary feelings, together
with his general disposition to shift responsibility, worked to the same end. George Villiers
was inclined to befriend Ralegh out of opposition to the Howards, who had been Carr's supporters.
Henry Howard, Earl of Northampton, had died in June, 1614. The credit of Thomas Howard, Earl
of Suffolk, the Lord Treasurer, was waning. The old Lord High Admiral Nottingham's naval administration
had been unsuccessful and wasteful. King Christian, the Queen's brother, when recently in England,
had warmly interceded for Ralegh, whom, if Sir Thomas Wilson's reports of subsequent conversations
with Ralegh are to be believed, he would gladly have borrowed of James for the Danish navy.
Ralegh believed the King had, on a previous visit, asked for his liberty. That is not certain.
Carleton, writing to Chamberlain in August, 1606, stated that Christian had declined the office.
In any case he exerted himself on his second visit. The fact must be set off for him against
another, that he was a sot, and, as Harington shows, set an evil example of drunken bouts to
the imitative English Court. Ralegh wrote to Winwood in January, 1616, on the wealth of Guiana:
'Those that had the greatest trust were resolved not to believe it; not because they doubted
the truth, but because they doubted my disposition towards themselves, had I recovered his
Majesty's favour and good opinion. Our late worthy Prince of Wales was extreme curious in searching
out the nature of my offences; the Queen's Majesty hath informed herself from the beginning;
the King of Denmark, at both times his being here, was thoroughly satisfied of my innocency.
The wife, the brother, and the son of a King do not use to sue for mere suspect. It is true,
sir, that his Majesty hath sometimes answered that his Council knew me better than he did;
meaning some two or three of them; and it was indeed my infelicity. For had his Majesty known
me, I had not been where I now am; or had I known his Majesty, they had never been so long
where they now are. His Majesty's misknowing of them hath been the ruin of a goodly part of
his estate; but they are all of them--some living, and some dying--come to his Majesty's knowledge.
But to die for the King, and not by the King, is all the ambition I have in the world.'

[Sidenote: Gifts of Money.]

No further explanation of Ralegh's deliverance might seem to be required. Without the co-operation
of these various coincidences which aided his claim to justice, and weakened the resistance
to it, he must indeed have remained in prison. But the popular belief was that the immediate
agency to which he owed his freedom was neither equity nor policy; it was the prisoner's own
money. A half-brother of George Villiers, Sir Edward Villiers, and Sir William St. John, a
kinsman of Sir Edward's wife, are alleged in the Observations on Sanderson's History of King
James, to have procured Sir Walter Ralegh's liberty, and to have had £1500 for their labour.
The story has been denied. Unfortunately it is by no means intrinsically improbable. It agrees
with Ralegh's confident allusion at his death to the ease with which he could have bought his
peace, even after his return from Guiana, if he had been rich enough. There is a miserable
consistency in his imprisonment on a false charge of treason, and his release through a bribe
to relatives of the King's favourite. He wrote to George Villiers: 'You have by your mediation
put me again into the world.' The service cannot be questioned, but its motive.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's Fellow Prisoners.]

[Sidenote: Death of Cobham.]

On March 19, 1616, a royal warrant required the Lieutenant of the Tower to 'permit Sir Walter
Ralegh to go abroad to make preparations for his voyage.' He then partially or entirely quitted
the prison which had been his home for twelve years. Its population had undergone some recent
and notable changes and exchanges. Sir George More was Lieutenant. Lord Grey of Wilton had
died in July, 1614. To the end he had hoped to be, through the influence of Henry Howard and
Carr, set free to serve Protestant Holland against Catholic Spain. More pitiable Arabella Stuart,
or Seymour, had entered in 1611. She survived till September, 1615, ever weak, but guilty of
no crime except her contingent birthright. Ralegh left in prison Northumberland. This splendid
patron of letters, for the dozen years he inhabited the Tower, has been said to have invested
it with the atmosphere of an university. He peopled it with students and inquirers, such as
Thomas Allen, William Warner, Robert Hues, Torporley, and Hariot. Of an intelligence and capacity
which won Sully's admiration, but wayward, scornful, and, for his own interests very little
of the wizard he was reputed to be, he had been consigned thither for no guilt, unless, like
Ralegh, that he may have consorted with the guilty. An injustice was not wholly fruitless which
bestowed on Ralegh the comfort of a companionship of learning. Death, eight years before his
release, had freed the last titular chieftain of the Fitzgeralds, whose spoils he had shared;
but he left there an older antagonist, Florence McCarthy, the 'infinitely adored' Munster man,
who in a neighbouring cell emulated his historical researches. He left Cobham. A rumour current
at the commencement of 1616 that Cobham, like him, was to be freed, was not confirmed till
1617, and then only partially. In that year Cobham was allowed to visit Bath for the waters.
He was on his way back to the Tower in September, when, at Odiham, he had a paralytic stroke.
He was conveyed to London at the beginning of October, and lingered between life and death
till January 12, 1619. Probably he expired in the Tower, though Francis Osborn, who had been
master of the horse to Lord Pembroke, was told by Pembroke that he died half starved in the
hovel of an old laundress in the Minories. The statement of his poverty is in conflict with
the fact mentioned by Ralegh in the Prerogative of Parliaments, that the Crown allowed him
£500 a year till his death for his maintenance. An explanation has been offered that the tale
may have been founded on the delay in his burial. His wealthy wife and relatives tried to throw
upon the Crown the liability for the cost of an obscure funeral by night at Cobham. But for
some unknown reason he appears to have been in pecuniary straits. Camden speaks of his return
to the Tower 'omnium rerum egentissimus,' and of his death 'miser et inops.' Certainly he had
been, as he deserved to be, more harshly treated in respect of money than Ralegh. On his conviction
his estates had been confiscated. Even his valuable library, which, in the Tower, he had retained,
was claimed in 1618 for the King's use by the Keeper of State Papers. He had no wife to tend
him as had Ralegh. Lady Kildare was more literally faithful than Sir Griffin Markham's wife,
who, while he was in exile, wedded her serving man, and had to do penance for bigamy at St.
Paul's in a white sheet. But she neglected her husband, whom she had once ardently loved, and
allowed him to pine alone. Ralegh's admirers too cannot but despise him, though their feeling
is less anger than impatience that so poor a creature should have warped the fate of one so great.

[Sidenote: Carr and his Wife.]

Another and newer prisoner Ralegh left, who was to stay till 1622, as notorious as Cobham,
and yet more ignoble. Robert Carr, Viscount Rochester, and Earl of Somerset, had been committed
to the Tower on October 18, 1615, on the charge of having procured the murder of Sir Thomas
Overbury. The guiltier Countess was joined in the accusation, and committed in April, 1616.
Both were convicted in the May after Ralegh's release. They were lodged in Ralegh's old quarters,
he in the Bloody tower, she in the garden pavilion erected or remodelled for Ralegh's accommodation.
It had been hastily prepared for her in response to her passionate entreaties to the Lieutenant
not to be put into Overbury's apartment. Carr's imprisonment and Ralegh's liberation are said,
in a treatise attributed to Fulke Greville, Lord Brooke, to have given great occasion of speech
and rumour. Quips and taunts upon Carr, on the same authority, are imputed to Ralegh. Town
gossip was always busy with his name. In the absence of facts it invented. He was capable of
sharp epigrams, and may have exulted in the fall of his unworthy supplanter. He would not have
condescended to hurl gibes, as has further been alleged, in the face of the miserable being
who was succeeding him as tenant of his cell.

PREPARING FOR GUIANA (1616-1617).

[Sidenote: A Pilgrimage Round London.]

Ralegh's freedom was for a period conditional. The King's warrant 'fully and wholly enlarging'
him, was not issued till January 30, 1617. From the preceding March 19, or, Camden says, March
29, he was permitted to live at his own house in the city. But he was attended by a keeper,
and his movements were restricted. On March 19, the Privy Council had written to him: 'His
Majesty being pleased to release you out of your imprisonment in the Tower, to go abroad with
a keeper, to make your provisions for your intended voyage, we admonish you that you should
not presume to resort either to his Majesty's Court, the Queen's, or Prince's, nor go into
any public assemblies wheresoever without especial licence.' Before his liberation he had been
seriously ill. Anxiety, and, it was rumoured, excessive toil in his laboratory at the assaying
of his Guiana ores, had brought on a slight apoplectic stroke. A sense of liberty restored
his activity. In March or April he handselled his freedom, as Chamberlain wrote to tell Carleton,
with a journey round London to see the new buildings erected since his imprisonment. Then forthwith
he commenced his preparations for 'the business for which,' as wrote the Council, 'upon your
humble request, his Majesty hath been pleased to grant you freedom.' He needed no driving,
and he spared no sacrifices.

[Sidenote: The Destiny.]

He collected information from every quarter, and was willing to buy it. He promised, for instance,
payment out of the profits of the voyage to an Amsterdam merchant for discovering somewhat
of importance to him in Guiana. He arranged on March 27, eight days after his release, for
Phineas Pett, the King's shipwright, to build, under his directions, the Destiny, of 450 tons
burden. He pledged all his resources. He called in the loan of £3000 to the Countess of Bedford.
His wife sold to Mr. Thomas Plumer for £2500 her house and lands at Mitcham. Altogether he
spent £10,500. Part he had to borrow on bills. So impoverished was he that, as he related subsequently,
he left himself no more in all the world, directly or indirectly, than £100, of which he gave
his wife £45. Warm personal friends, of whom he always had many, notwithstanding his want of
promiscuous popularity, gave encouragement and sympathy. George Carew, writing to Sir Thomas
Roe at the Great Mogul's Court of the building of the Destiny, which was launched on December
16, 1616, 'prayed Heaven she might be no less fortunate with her owner than is wished by me.'
Carew, shrewd and prudent, had no doubt of the sincerity of his 'extreme confidence in his
gold mine.' Adherents contributed money and equipments. Lady Ralegh's relative, grand-nephew
of her old opponent at law, Lord Huntingdon, presented a pair of cannon. The Queen offered
good wishes, and was with difficulty dissuaded from visiting the flagship.

Many co-adventurers joined, and contributed nearly £30,000. Unfortunately they were, Ralegh
has recorded, mostly dissolute, disorderly, and ungovernable. Their friends were cheaply rid
of them at the hazard of thirty, forty, or fifty pounds apiece. Some soon showed themselves
unmanageable, and were dismissed before the fleet sailed. Of the discharged a correspondent
of Ralegh's pleasantly wrote: 'It will cause the King to be at some charge in buying halters
to save them from drowning.' More than enough stayed to furnish Ralegh with mournful grounds
later on for recollecting his own Cassandra-like regret that Greek Eumenes should have 'cast
away all his virtue, industry, and wit in leading an army without full power to keep it in
due obedience.' Of better characters were some forty gentlemen volunteers. Among them were
Sir Warham St. Leger, son of Ralegh's Irish comrade, not as Mr. Kingsley surmises, the father,
who had been slain in 1600; George Ralegh, Ralegh's nephew, who had served with Prince Maurice;
William or Myles Herbert, a cousin of Ralegh, and near kinsman of Lord Pembroke; Charles Parker,
misnamed in one list Barker, a brother of Lord Monteagle; Captain North; and Edward Hastings,
Lord Huntingdon's brother. Hastings died at Cayenne. He would, wrote Ralegh at the time, have
died as certainly at home, for 'both his liver, spleen, and brains were rotten.'

[Sidenote: Young Walter.]

Young Walter was of the company, and Ralegh and his wife adventured nothing else for them so
precious. Walter was fiery and precocious, too much addicted, by his father's testimony, to
strange company and violent exercise. He had been of an age to feel the ruin of his parents,
and to resent their persecution. In childhood, with the consent of Cobham, and of Cecil as
Master of the Court of Wards, he was betrothed to Cobham's ward, Elizabeth, the daughter and
heiress of wealthy William Basset, of Blore. On the attainder the contract was broken. The
girl was affianced to Henry Howard, who died in September, 1616, a son of Lord Treasurer Suffolk,
formerly Lord Thomas Howard. Walter was born in 1593, and in October, 1607, at fourteen, matriculated
at Corpus College, Oxford. He was described as, at this time, his father's exact image both
in body and mind. In 1610 he took his bachelor's degree. By 1613 he was living in London. In
April, 1615, according to a letter from Carew to Roe, though other accounts variously give
the date as 1614 or early in 1616, he fought a duel with Robert Finett or Tyrwhit, a retainer
of Suffolk's. It was necessary for him to leave the country. Ralegh sent him to the Netherlands,
with letters of introduction to Prince Maurice. Ben Jonson is said to have acted as his governor
abroad. That is impossible at the date, 1593, assigned by Aubrey to their association. It is
not impossible a year or two after 1613, if not in 1613, when Jonson appears to have been in
France. Poet and pupil are said to have parted 'not in cold blood.' It is likely enough, if
Drummond's tale be true, as Mr. Dyce seems to believe, that Walter had Jonson carted dead drunk
about a foreign town. According to another not very plausible story, retailed by Oldys, the
exposure of the tutor's failing was at the Tower, and to Ralegh, to whom Walter consigned Jonson
in a clothes-basket carried by two stout porters. Though the particular tales are hardly credible,
Jonson's revelries may have laid him open to lectures by the father, and disrespect from the
son, which would have something to do with the dramatist's sneer at the memory of Ralegh, as
one who 'esteemed more fame than conscience.' At all events, Walter, now just twenty-three,
was back from the Continent in time to command his father's finely-built and equipped flagship,
the Destiny. He was as full of life as Edward Hastings of disease, and as death-doomed.

[Sidenote: Commission with Omissions.]

Ralegh was liberated expressly that he might work out his Guiana plans. He was not pardoned.
A royal commission was granted him in August, 1616. He had understood that he was to have a
commission under the Great Seal, which would be addressed to him as 'trusty and well-beloved.'
Actually, though he and others often seem to have forgotten the difference, it was under the
Privy Seal, and he was described as plain 'Sir Walter Ralegh.' The honorary epithets are known
to have been inserted originally, and afterwards erased. Similarly, in a warrant for the payment
to him in November, 1617, of the statutable bounty of 700 crowns for his construction of the
Destiny, an erasure precedes his name. The space it covers would suffice for the expression,
'our well-beloved subject,' usual in such grants. The withholding at any rate of a pardon excited
apprehensions. It was matter of common talk. Carew wrote to Roe on March 19, 1616, that Ralegh
had left the Tower, and was to go to Guiana, but 'remains unpardoned until his return.' Merchants,
it was stated, required security, 'Sir Walter Ralegh being under the peril of the law,' that
they should enjoy the benefits of the expedition. His kinsmen and friends, it was said, were
willing to serve only 'if they might be commanded by none but himself.' Their scruples had
to be pacified by the issue of an express licence to him to carry subjects of the King to the
south of America, and elsewhere within America, possessed and inhabited by heathen and savage
people, with shipping, weapons and ordnance. He was authorised to keep gold, silver, and other
goods which he should bring back, the fifth part of the gold, silver, pearls, and precious
stones, with all customs due for any other goods, being truly paid to the Crown. Further, his
Majesty, of his most special grace, constituted Ralegh sole commander, 'to punish, pardon,
and rule according to such orders as he shall establish in cases capital, criminal, and civil,
and to exercise martial law in as ample a manner as our lieutenant-general by sea or land.'
The commission did not contain the authority conferred by Ralegh's old Guiana commission to
subdue foreign lands. It too is reported to have been originally inserted, and to have been
struck out by James.

[Sidenote: Unpardoned.]

[Sidenote: Advice from, and avowal to, Bacon.]

Ralegh must, like his friends and creditors, have been conscious of the risk of sailing without
a pardon. Carew Ralegh many years afterwards asserted, that Sir William St. John agreed to
procure one for him for £1500 beyond the sum paid for his liberty. According to the Observations
on Sanderson's History, the benefit was offered by St. John and Edward Villiers jointly, and
for as little as £700. A right to abandon the voyage if he pleased was to have been added.
Bacon's name is connected with the matter. Incidentally Bacon, who had been appointed Lord
Keeper on March 7, 1617, is known to have met Ralegh after his release. He himself relates
that he kept the Earl of Exeter waiting long in his upper room as he 'continued upon occasion
still walking in Gray's Inn walks with Sir Walter Ralegh a good while.' On the authority of
Carew Ralegh, as quoted in a letter to the latter from James Howell in the Familiar Letters,
he is reported, possibly on this occasion, to have persuaded Ralegh to save his money, and
trust to the implication of a pardon to be inferred from the royal commission. 'Money,' said
the Lord Keeper, 'is the knee-timber of your voyage. Spare your money in this particular; for,
upon my life, you have a sufficient pardon for all that is past already, the King having under
his Great Seal made you Admiral, and given you power of martial law. Your commission is as
good a pardon for all former offences as the law of England can afford you.' That is the view
of so sound a constitutional lawyer as Hallam. His reason for the contention is that a man
attainted of treason is incapable of exercising authority. But it can scarcely be argued as
a point of law, and it is difficult to believe that a Lord Keeper should have volunteered a
dogma of an absolute pardon by implication. Moreover, though, as will hereafter be seen, Sir
Julius Cæsar, who was Master of the Rolls, fell into the same mistake in 1618, the misdescription,
imputed to Bacon, of the Commission as under the Great Seal, of itself casts doubt upon the
anecdote. On the whole, there is no sufficient cause for disputing the statement in the Declaration
of 1618, that James deliberately, 'the better to contain Sir Walter Ralegh, and to hold him
upon his good behaviour, denied, though much sued unto for the same, to grant him pardon for
his former treasons.'

In the course of this or another conversation, Bacon, according to Sir Thomas Wilson's note
of a statement made to him by Ralegh himself, inquired, 'What will you do, if, after all this
expenditure, you miss of the gold mine?' The reply was: 'We will look after the Plate Fleet,
to be sure.' 'But then,' remonstrated Bacon, 'You will be pirates!' 'Ah!' Ralegh is alleged
to have cried, 'who ever heard of men being pirates for millions!' The Mexican fleet for 1618
is in fact computed to have conveyed treasure to the amount of £2,545,454. It is scarcely credible
that Ralegh, though never distinguished for cautious speech, should have been so intemperately
rash. Such a confession to Bacon, known to be Winwood's antagonist, who would rejoice to have
ground for thwarting the anti-Spanish party at Court, is particularly unlikely. Mr. Spedding
himself, while he believes it, regards Ralegh's reply as 'a playful diversion of an inconvenient
question.' As a serious statement the saying is not the more authentic that it emanates from
Wilson. Naturally it has been accepted by writers for whom Ralegh is a mere buccaneer.

[Sidenote: Count Gondomar.]

From the first it is evident that Spain and the Spanish faction at the English Court laboured
to place upon the expedition the construction which Ralegh's apocryphal outburst to Bacon would
warrant. Don Diego Sarmiento de Acuña, the Ambassador of Spain, better known by the title,
not yet his, of Count Gondomar, was the mouthpiece of the view. He offered, as Ralegh in his
Apology virtually admits, to procure a safe-conduct for Ralegh to and from the mine, with liberty
to bring home any gold he should find. The condition he imposed was that the expedition should
be limited to one or two ships. The reason Ralegh gave in his paper for declining the arrangement,
was that he did not trust sufficiently to the Ambassador's promises to go unarmed. In view
of the way Spaniards were in the habit of treating English visitors, he clearly could not with
prudence. At all events, for its refusal, if the offer were ever made in a practicable shape,
James and his Government are obviously as responsible as he. They might, if they chose, have
withdrawn his commission if he rejected those terms. Gondomar was a good Spaniard. He had a
patriotic hatred for 'the old pirate bred under the English virago, and by her fleshed in Spanish
blood and ruin.' His influence with James was boundless. He could 'pipe James asleep,' it was
said, 'with facetious words and gestures.' They were the more diverting from their contrast
with his lank, austere aspect. James had supreme faith in his wisdom, to the extravagant extent,
according to his own incredible letter in 1622 from Madrid to the King, of having appointed
him a member 'non seulement de votre Conseil d'état, mais du Cabinet intérieur.'

[Sidenote: Disclosures to the Spanish Ambassador.]

Above all, he held for or against England the key to a family pact with the Escurial. At first
he hoped to stop Ralegh's enterprise altogether. So late as the middle of March, 1617, Chamberlain
wrote to Carleton that the Spanish Ambassador had 'well nigh overthrown it.' If he could not
nip the undertaking in the bud, he had means of stifling it by misinterpreting to James Ralegh's
motives, and by informing the Spanish Court how to meet force with force. Ralegh was ordered
to explain the details of his scheme, and to lay down his route on a chart. According to Carew
Ralegh, whose information may be presumed to have been derived from Lady Ralegh, James promised
upon the word of a King to keep secret these accounts of the programme. At any rate, Gondomar,
by his familiar access to the King, was enabled to study the whole, whatever its value. He
forwarded all particulars to Madrid. When the fleet had been surveyed by the Admiralty, he
had a copy of the official report. He sent it by express to his Government, which despatched
it with instructions to America. Cottington, the English Agent at the Spanish Court, was directed
to promise that no harm should be done by Ralegh's voyage. The King in his Declaration of 1618
said he had taken 'order that he and all those that went in his company should find good security
to behave themselves peaceably,' though the intention, the King lamented, was frustrated by
'every one of the principals that were in the voyage putting in security one for another.'
There even was a story that the Court had obliged Lords Arundel and Pembroke to engage solemnly
for Ralegh's return, that he might be rendered personally liable for any wrong. The foundation
for this report may have been that, late in March, as the Destiny was about to sail from the
Thames, James, alarmed at Gondomar's prognostications of evil, retailed them to his Council.
Ralegh's supporters at the Board reassured him by affirmations of their willingness to give
security that no harm should be done to lands of the King of Spain. James, several weeks earlier,
at the end of January, had solemnly promised Gondomar, through Winwood, that, though he had
determined to allow the voyage, if Ralegh acted in it in contravention of his instructions,
he should pay for his disobedience with his head.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's preparations against Violence.]

[Sidenote: The Comte des Marêts.]

Ralegh and his friends knew of the care taken to guard Spanish interests at his cost. He had
told Carew, as Carew writes to Roe, that 'the alarm of his journey had flown into Spain, and
sea forces were prepared to lie for him.' He was nothing appalled, since, as Carew was informed,
he had a good fleet, and would be able to land five or as many as seven hundred men; 'which
will be a competent army, the Spaniards, especially about Orinoque, being so poorly planted.'
Carew evidently, it will be seen, assumed that Ralegh must expect violence, and might lawfully
meet it in kind. James and his Councillors assumed it also, till Ralegh came back empty handed.
He openly was arming to be a match in battle for the Spaniards; and his party in the Council
with equal earnestness tried to balance the weight there of Spain by another influence. Mr.
Secretary Winwood wished in all ways to break with Spain. He urged Ralegh to capture the Mexico
fleet. In support of his policy he favoured an intimate alliance with the chief rival Power.
He introduced Ralegh to the Comte des Marêts, the French Ambassador. Des Marêts is supposed
to have grown apprehensive of a sudden diversion of Ralegh's forces to an attack on St. Valery
in the interest of the Huguenots against the Queen Mother. He was glad, therefore, of an opportunity
of judging for himself of Ralegh's views. They may already have had communication by letter.
French influence had been, it is thought, employed on Ralegh's behalf while he was in the Tower.
He had never ceased to maintain relations with the Huguenots, and the French Court appreciated
the importance in certain circumstances of his services. The Spanish, Savoyard, and Venetian
Envoys had inspected his squadron. On March 15, 1617, the Count too visited the Destiny. He
reported the interview to Richelieu a few days later. He soon satisfied himself that St. Valery
was not threatened. He told Ralegh that the French Court had sympathised with him in his long
and unjust imprisonment, and the confiscation of his property. From another quarter he had
heard, he wrote to Richelieu, that Ralegh especially resented the gift of Sherborne to Sir
John Digby, who lately had returned from his Spanish mission. He gathered that Ralegh was discontented
with James, and with the Court policy. Ralegh expressed his desire for more talk at a less
inconvenient time and place. Richelieu had recently described him to Marshal Concini as 'grand
marinier et mauvais capitaine'; but he was far from discouraging his overtures. A subsequent
interview was held, and described in a despatch several weeks after the meeting. If the Count's
memory did not, as Sir Robert Schomburgk thinks, deceive him, Ralegh said: 'Seeing myself so
badly and tyrannically treated by my own Sovereign, I have made up my mind, if God send me
good success, to leave my country, and to make to the King your master the first offer of what
shall fall under my power.' Doubtless there was just so much truth in the Count's report that
a profusion of compliments passed. Des Marêts would express his astonishment at the treatment
Ralegh had experienced, and regret that France had not enjoyed the happiness of possessing
such a hero, and the opportunity of rewarding him properly. Ralegh would respond in the same
key, and assure his French sympathiser that, if an occasion presented itself, he was well inclined
to serve the noblest Court in Europe. He is not to be held responsible for the positive summary
the Frenchman dressed up of the conversation weeks after it had passed to show Ralegh's effusiveness
and his own caution. Des Marêts himself did not at the time treat the talk seriously. He said
he replied that Ralegh could betake himself to no quarter in which he would receive more of
courtesy or friendship. 'I thought it well,' wrote des Marêts, 'to give him good words, although
I do not anticipate that his voyage will have much fruit.'

[Sidenote: Understanding with France.]

Before Ralegh left English waters he had further negotiations with France. A Frenchman, Captain
Faige, was his companion on the voyage, which commenced March 28, 1617, from the Thames to
Plymouth. By this man he sent in May a letter to a M. de Bisseaux, a French Councillor of State.
He wrote that he had commissioned Faige to take ships to points in the Indies agreed on between
them. The intention was to meet Ralegh at the mine which he counted upon working. Faige, he
said, could explain his plan. He asked for a patent, promised, he said, by Admiral de Montmorency,
which would empower him to enter a French port, 'avec tous les ports, navires, equipages, et
biens, par lui traités ou conquis.' One Belle reported himself to Montmorency as Faige's associate.
In that character he obtained Ralegh's letter, and carried it with other papers, and a map
of Guiana, to Madrid. There he told the story in the May of the following year. Ralegh's letter
to Bisseaux in his handwriting has been seen and copied at Simancas. If he ever received, as
is inferred from his admissions to the Royal Commissioners next year, and to Sir Thomas Wilson,
the warrant he asked, it was a permit from the French Admiralty. It was not a commission from
the French Crown, and, whatever it was, James and his Ministers were parties to its grant.

[Sidenote: Mystifications.]

The whole secret history of the preliminaries to the Guiana expedition forms a tangled skein.
The negotiations of Ralegh with France were certainly known to Winwood, and, there can be little
doubt, to James also. Ralegh taxed the King by letter in October, 1618, with privity and assent
to the arrangement, through Faige, for the co-operation of French ships against the Spaniards
at the mouth of the Orinoko. He was not contradicted. Winwood and his section of the Council
in good faith preferred a French to a Spanish compact. They did not shudder at the contingency
of war. James and the pro-Spanish party concurred for the moment in the playing off of France
against Spain, in order to push Spain into the English alliance which they coveted. From the
double motive the Government in general encouraged Ralegh to treat with France. That Spain
might be frightened he was instigated to an intimacy with French Ministers and plotters. Though
he never received a regular French commission, it was allowed to be supposed that one had been
issued to him. No French ships were fitted out to aid him, or despatched to the coast of Guiana.
Nothing, it may confidently be asserted, was ever farther from his thoughts than the surrender
of territory he might appropriate to any foreign Crown. All simply was a game of mystification
devised for one purpose by Winwood, and, for a different purpose, joined in by James and the
rest. The Spanish faction wished to give Spain cause to fancy its foe was being unchained to
do his worst against it at his own discretion, and by any agency he chose, unless it should
come to terms speedily. A condition of the game, which Ralegh but imperfectly understood, was
that it should be played at his especial peril. He was suffered to concert measures with one
foreign ally of England against another, at the direct instance of a leading Minister, and
with the connivance of the King himself. The King was informed of the intrigue, and knew as
much as his indolence permitted of its various steps. He was never obliged to know so much,
or to betray such signs of knowing anything, as not to be in a position on an exigency to disavow
the whole. This was his idea of state-craft.

The negotiation with the French Government was but one of the threads in the skein. James and
his advisers were in a frame of mind in which any foreign adventure had a chance of securing
their support. Ralegh, and the popular excitement which had wafted him from a prison to an
Admiral's command, were pawns moved by the political speculators of the Court for their own
purposes. Wild rumours circulated of objects to which the expedition was about really to be
directed. The circumstances of the expedition, the character of its chief, his sudden liberation,
and the trust reposed in him, were so extraordinary that all Europe was disturbed. Though Continental
thought may, as the greatest of modern historians has said, have visited the memory of Ralegh
since with an indifference more bitter than censure or reproach, it was very far from indifferent
in 1617. At home cynics disbelieved the sincerity of Ralegh. They ridiculed the notion that,
after the iniquitous treatment he had experienced, he would have the folly to come back. Friends
apparently were not entirely free from the suspicion that he might be induced, if he failed,
to shake the dust of an ungrateful kingdom off his feet. Lord Arundel at parting earnestly
dissuaded him from yielding to any temptation to a self-banishment, which assuredly he never
contemplated. A solicitation of authority to carry Spanish prizes in certain circumstances
into French ports is no evidence that he contemplated a change of allegiance. Reports that
he had asked the licence may explain why it occurred to Arundel or Pembroke to pledge him against
such an use of it.

[Sidenote: Plot against Genoa.]

If acquaintances who felt how ill he had been treated feared he might be beguiled into abjuring
his ungrateful country, others deemed the ostensible gold digging aim of the expedition too
simple and bounded for his subtle and lofty ambition. Leonello, the Secretary to the Venetian
Embassy, writing to the Council of Ten on January 19 and 26, and February 3, 1617, described
communications between Ralegh, Winwood, and Count Scarnafissi, the Ambassador of Savoy. The
Duke of Savoy was waging a war with Spain, which ended in the following September. He would
have liked Ralegh to pounce upon Genoa, which was become almost a Spanish port. The project
was discussed by Scarnafissi with Winwood and Ralegh, whom Winwood had introduced to him. It
is said by Leonello to have been divulged by Winwood to James. James at first was inclined
to adopt it. After a few days he recalled his assent. Probably he had given it partly out of
pique against the Spanish Court; and now Spain was resuming negotiations for the marriage of
the Infanta to Prince Charles. He was, moreover, said Leonello, suspicious that Ralegh might
not give him his just share of the anticipated twenty millions of booty. The entire business
is not very intelligible. Leonello's three secret despatches disinterred by Mr. Rawdon Brown
are the main evidence of the project, and of the degree of Ralegh's participation in it. An
examination of the Piedmontese Archives might shed clearer light on the scope and reality of
the obscure intrigue. Leonello himself offers no testimony but admissions alleged to have been
extorted by him from Scarnafissi. At any rate if credence is to be given to the somewhat suspicious
account, the worst guilt for the contemplated piratical perfidy attaches to the crowned accomplice.
Sir Thomas Wilson wrote to James on October 4, 1618: 'Sir Walter Ralegh tells me Sir Ralph
Winwood brought him acquainted with the Ambassador of Savoy, with whom they consulted for the
surprise of Genoa, and that your Majesty was acquainted with the business, and liked it well.'
The King never denied the truth of the imputation. From first to last the negotiations, the
plots for and against, were, on the side of the English, French, Spanish, and Savoyard Governments,
a mere shuffle of diplomatic cards. The one thing in real earnest was the universal propensity
to intrigue at Ralegh's expense. Everybody's hands were to be left loose but his.

[Sidenote: Strength of the Armament.]

The preparations for the expedition on the original basis were little affected by the speculative
projects for turning it to strange purposes. The Destiny, Jason, Encounter, Thunder, Southampton,
and the pinnace Page had sailed from the Thames at the end of March, 1617. Fears of a countermand
were said to have hastened their departure. They carried ninety gentlemen, a few soldiers,
and 318 seamen, beside captains and masters. There were also servants and assayers. The Declaration
of 1618 contends, truly or untruly, that no miners were embarked. If it were so, it is strange
that the omission should not have been remarked in the West, of all regions. Four ships had
been fitted for sea at Plymouth by Sir John Ferne, Laurence Keymis, Wollaston, and Chudleigh.
Others arrived later. Want of money caused delay. Captain Pennington of the Star was detained
off the Isle of Wight for provisions. He had to ride to London to redeem, with Lady Ralegh's
help, his ship's bread. To eke out Captain Whitney's resources, Ralegh sold much of his plate.
He raised £300 for Sir John Ferne. No checks, temptations, or expenses daunted him. While he
knew, as he wrote to Boyle, 'there was no middle course but perish or prosper,' his idea steeled
him against forebodings. He felt inspired to accomplish a national enterprise. 'What fancy,'
he exclaimed later, 'could possess him thus to dispose of his whole substance, and undertake
such a toilsome and perilous voyage, now that his constitution was impaired by such a long
confinement, beside age itself, sickness, and affliction, were not he assured thereby of doing
his prince service, bettering his country by commerce, and restoring his family to its estates,
all from the mines of Guiana!' The spectacle of his confidence is among the most pathetic tragedies
in history.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE EXPEDITION (May, 1617-June, 1618).

[Sidenote: Orders to the Fleet.]

On May 3 he published his orders to the fleet. They were a model of godly, severe, and martial
government, as testified a gentleman of his company. Divine service was to be solemnised every
morning and evening. The pillage of ships of friendly Powers was rigorously prohibited. Courtesy
towards the Indians was strictly injoined. All firearms were to be kept clean. Rules were laid
down in the event of an encounter with 'the enemy' at sea. Cards, dice, and swearing were forbidden.
The people of the West, and especially Plymouth, had remained faithful in their admiration
of Ralegh though an imprisoned convict. They rejoiced at seeing him once more in command of
a powerful fleet. On the eve of his departure the Mayor of Plymouth, a Trelawny, 'by a general
consent,' at the town's expense entertained the Admiral and his followers. The town also 'paid
the drummer for calling Sir Walter Ralegh's company aboard.' On June 12, seven ships of war
and three pinnaces sailed from the port. At sea they were joined by loiterers, which brought
the total up to thirteen ships, manned by a thousand men. Contrary winds forced them back,
first into Plymouth, and next into Falmouth. Again, eight leagues west of Scilly, a gale rose
which sank a pinnace, and drove the rest into Kinsale.

[Sidenote: Boyle's Bargain with Ralegh.]

At Cork he was cordially welcomed alike by old enemies and old friends. With his inexhaustible
vivacity he flew his hawks at Cloyne; he took shares in an Irish copper mining adventure; he
provisioned his fleet; he was feasted and admired; he reviewed the past, and anticipated the
future. Among those who sought his company were Lords Barry and Roche. Boyle, now Lord Boyle,
came from Lismore, and entertained him. He rode to Lismore and Mogelly. His estate had turned
in Boyle's more patient hands into a noble domain with a revenue estimated by Pym in 1616 at
£12,000. Boyle gave his own account of his transactions with Ralegh in a letter of 1631 to
Carew Ralegh, who wished to have them reviewed. According to this he behaved, and was recognised
by Ralegh as having behaved, generously and honourably. Clearly he had no doubt of his own
magnanimity. At the time of the attainder the conveyance under the agreement of 1602 was not
legally completed. Apparently not all the purchase-money had been paid. Inquisitions were being
taken of Ralegh's Irish lands by the Government. Sir John Ramsay, Boyle said, had offered to
use his Scotch influence to obtain from the Crown an absolute release of all claims against
him, by Ralegh as well as by the Crown, for 500 marks. He preferred to follow the advice of
George Carew, who predicted to him after the Winchester conviction that the King would remit
Ralegh's forfeiture. He went on dealing with him, though legally incompetent, and had paid
him a supplementary sum of £1000 to close the matter. In addition he had to beg or buy a royal
confirmation of his title to the lands, when they had been 'found by offices' upon the attainder.
Now, in Cork he supplied the expedition with oxen, biscuit, beer, and iron, to the value of
600 marks or more. He gave Ralegh £350 in cash, and a thirty-two gallon cask of whiskey. For
three weeks he kept open house for him at Cork. Ralegh, he asserted, reciprocated his hospitalities
by a full abandonment of any possible claims he might have made upon the Lismore property.
He also contributed evidence towards Boyle's defence against some demands founded by Ralegh's
old partner Pyne upon a lease alleged by him to have been granted him by Ralegh many years
before, in extension of a shorter term. Ralegh, though on good terms at the time with Pyne,
seems to have assured Boyle of his belief that the second demise was a counterfeit fabricated
by Meere. His dealings, however, were very complicated, and his remembrance of them necessarily
not always clear. In 1618 he became dubious if he had not been too positive against Pyne's
title. He requested, on the eve of his death, that he should not be considered a witness either
for or against it.

[Sidenote: Fray at Lancerota.]

The fleet stayed at Cork from June 25 to August 19. Then it made a fresh start. Off Cape St.
Vincent, Captain Bayley, of the ship Southampton, boarded four French vessels, and took from
them a fishing net, a pinnace, and some oil. A report of the capture reached Madrid, where
it was denounced as piracy. In truth Ralegh had been scrupulous. He insisted on buying the
goods of the owners at the price of sixty-one crowns, to the high indignation of Bayley. The
captor's argument was that he found the Frenchmen had procured their cargo by piracy in the
West Indies, and he, therefore, had lawfully confiscated it. Ralegh did not admit that the
charge would, if true, justify him in refusing compensation. Frenchmen and Englishmen alike,
he held, could plunder Spaniards 'beyond the line.' Lancerota, one of the Great Canaries, was
reached on September 6. The islanders happened to be under the influence of a special panic.
Barbary corsairs had been ravaging a neighbouring island. Next year they laid Lancerota itself
waste. When Ralegh's fleet appeared it was supposed to be the Barbary squadron. Some sailors
having landed, three were murdered. Ralegh showed remarkable forbearance. He would suffer no
vengeance to be taken. An English merchantman, belonging to one Reeks of Ratcliff, lay in the
harbour. Ralegh knew it would have to bear the penalty of retaliation by him. Bayley, however,
seized upon the pretext of the broil. He affected to see in that, onesided as it was, evidence
of Ralegh's piratical temper. In a fit of virtuous horror at his Admiral who had docked his
prize money of sixty-one crowns, he deserted, and sailed home.

[Sidenote: Sickness in the Fleet.]

At Gomera, one of the Lesser Canaries, the fleet found more hospitality. The Governor permitted
the crews to draw water, and buy provisions. Ralegh reciprocated by keeping his men in perfect
order. He sent a present of gloves to the Governor's wife, a lady of the Stafford family. She
returned fruit, sugar, and rusks. Not to be outdone he rejoined with ambergris, rosewater,
a cut-work ruff, and a picture of the Magdalen. He was in the habit of taking pictures with
him on his voyages. This interchange of courtesies was the one gleam of human kindness which
lighted up for Ralegh his dismal journey. He dwells upon it gratefully in the journal he kept.
The manuscript, in twenty large pages, is in the British Museum. It covers the period from
August 19 to February 13. Off the Isle of Bravo, sickness attacked the fleet. It was aggravated
through the protraction of the voyage by contrary winds from the customary fortnight or three
weeks to six. Forty-two men in the flagship died. Among them were Fowler, the principal refiner,
Ralegh's cook Francis, his servant Crab, the master surgeon, the provost martial, Captain Piggot,
his best land-general, and Mr. John Talbot, 'who,' records Ralegh, 'had lived with me eleven
years in the Tower, an excellent general scholar, and a faithful true man as lived.' The ship
left Bravo on October 4. On the 12th they were becalmed. At one time a thick and fearful darkness
enveloped them. Then the horizon became over-shot with gloomy discolorations. Off Trinidad
fifteen rainbows in a day were seen. Ralegh caught a cold, which turned to a burning fever.
For twenty-eight days he lay unable to take solid food. He could not have survived but for
the Gomera fruit. His ordinary servants were all ill; but he had also pages who attended him.
Apparently his illness did not prevent him from keeping a general supervision of the fleet.
His journal proves him to have been a thorough and practical seaman.

[Sidenote: Indian Affection.]

The fleet arrived off Cape Oyapoco on November 11. Ralegh wrote to his wife on November 17,
from the mouth of the Cayenne in Guiana, the Caliana, as he calls it: 'Sweet Heart, We are
yet 200 men, and the rest of our fleet are reasonably strong; strong enough, I hope, to perform
what we have undertaken, if the diligent care at London to make our strength known to the Spanish
King by his ambassador have not taught the Spaniards to fortify all the entrances against us.
If we perish, it shall be no gain for his Majesty to lose, among many other, one hundred as
valiant gentlemen as England hath in it.' But he was not disheartened. Walter was never so
well, having had 'no distemper in all the heat under the Line.' He found good faith in Indian
hearts, if not at King James's Court. 'To tell you I might here be King of the Indians were
a vanity; but my name hath still lived among them. All offer to obey me.' Harry the Indian
Chief who had lived two years in the Tower with him presently came. He had previously sent
provisions. He brought roasted mullets, which were very good meat, great store of plantains,
peccaries, casava bread, pistachio nuts, and pine apples, which tempted Ralegh exceedingly.
After a few days on shore he began to mend, and to have an appetite for roast peccary. His
crews were still sickly, and rested for three weeks. One of the Adventurers employed his leisure
in composing a discourse in praise of Guiana. It contains the orders Ralegh issued to the fleet
before he left England; but the information concerning the voyage is meagre. Captain Peter
Alley, being ill of a vertigo, was sent home in a Dutch vessel, which traded with Guiana. The
narrative went with him. Next year it was printed in London under the title 'Newes of Sir Walter
Rauleigh from the River of Caliana,' with a woodcut of Ralegh in band and collar, and a laced
velvet doublet.

[Sidenote: The new San Thome.]

Ralegh left the Cayenne on December 4, and sailed to the Triangle Islands, now called the Isles
of Health. There he organized the expedition to the Mine. It was decided that he should not
lead in person. Fever had a second time attacked him. Besides, his officers were unwilling
to venture inland, unless he remained behind to guard the river mouth from a Spanish fleet.
Sir Wareham St. Leger, the lieutenant-general, also was ill. George Ralegh, who previously
had succeeded Piggot as serjeant-major, commanded in St. Leger's place. Apparently Ralegh,
who nowhere has specified the exact situation, supposed the Mine was at a short distance from
the right bank of the river. Mr. Gardiner, in his Case against Sir Walter Ralegh, published
in the Fortnightly Review in 1867, assumes it was that pointed out to Keymis by Putijma in
1595, though, it must be remembered, Keymis heard of another from the Cacique in 1596. At any
rate the precise topographical relation between it and the existing Spanish settlement of San
Thome, or St. Thomas, was unknown to Ralegh. The town was no longer where it had stood in 1596
when Keymis heard of it. The old site had been deserted at some date which cannot be fixed.
The common view has been that the change had been effected before 1611, and that the San Thome
which Captain Moate found inhabited by the Spaniards was the new town. That is unlikely, both
because Moate would then have identified the actual spot, and on account of Ralegh's description
to the King, after his return, of the town as 'new set up within three miles of the Mine.'
San Thome at all events in 1618 was twenty to thirty miles lower down than the original town.
It was close to the bank, a group of some hundred and forty houses, 'a town of stakes, covered
with leaves of trees.' There is no evidence that Ralegh, who must have heard of the transplantation,
knew the new town directly blocked the approach to the Mine. Though, however, he was ignorant
that in the circumstances a collision was certain, he may well have thought it probable. So
must the English Government which had sanctioned his martial preparations. The Spaniards never
dissembled their belief that the entrance of foreigners into the American interior was a lawless
trespass to be repelled by force. Consequently, he provided against the contingency. Four hundred
soldiers and sailors were embarked in five of the ships of least draught, commanded by Captains
Whitney, King, Smith, Wollaston, and Hall. The other five, including the flagship, which drew
twelve feet of water, were left behind with Ralegh. The land forces were under Walter. The
landing and search for the Mine were entrusted to Keymis.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's Instructions to his Captains.]

Ralegh's account of his communications to his officers differs from that put forth by the King's
Government. According to the official version, he at first advised them to commence by the
immediate capture of the Spanish town. But, objected one of them, that would be a breach of
peace. He is alleged to have answered that he had orders by word of mouth to take the town,
if it were any hindrance to the digging of the Mine. The tale rests on the dubious testimony
of James's Councillors writing in a desperate panic at an outburst of popular indignation after
Ralegh's execution. In itself it is not improbable that Ralegh, with qualifications omitted
in the official report, said something at a council of war to this effect. If he suggested
a hostile movement at all, he may be presumed to have stated also with right that he spoke
by authority. Mr. Secretary Winwood, it is admitted, calculated upon a collision with the Spaniards,
and even upon Ralegh's seizure of the plate-fleet. He would not shrink from the capture of
a Guiana fort. They alone will treat Ralegh's assertion, if it were his, as 'evidence of his
unblushing effrontery,' to whom his accounts are necessarily mendacious, and those of the Court,
King James's Court, necessarily honest. In any case the point matters little, as Ralegh is
admitted to have himself decided against the plan. His final instructions to Keymis and George
Ralegh were that they should endeavour to reach the Mine, as he imagined they might, without
a struggle. He bade them encamp between it and the town, which, as he believed, lay beyond.
Thus the soldiers would cover the miners as they worked. 'If,' said he, 'you find the Mine
royal, and the Spaniards begin to war upon you, you, George Ralegh, are to repel them, and
to drive them as far as you can.' To Keymis he said, 'If you find the Mine be not so rich as
may persuade the holding of it, and draw on a second supply, then you shall bring but a basket
or two, to satisfy his Majesty that my design was not imaginary, but true, though not answerable
to his Majesty's expectation.' If there appeared to be many new soldiers, 'so that, without
manifest peril of my son and the other captains, you cannot pass towards the Mine, then be
well advised how you land. For I know, a few gentlemen excepted, what a scum of men you have.
And I would not, for all the world, receive a blow from the Spaniards to the dishonour of our
nation. I myself for my weakness cannot be present. Neither will the companies land, except
I stay with the ships, the galleons of Spain being daily expected. My nephew is but a young
man. It is therefore on your judgment that I rely. You shall find me at Puncto Gallo, dead
or alive. And if you find not my ships there, you shall find their ashes. For I will fire,
with the galleons, if it come to extremity; run will I never.'

[Sidenote: Departure for the Mine.]

The expedition started with a month's provisions on December 10. Its progress was slow, and
accidents detained Whitney's and Wollaston's vessels. The rest took three weeks to reach the
Isle of Yaya, styled by Ralegh Assapana. The isle is opposite to the modern town of St. Raphael
of Barrancas. Preparations had been made by the Spaniards to resist further progress. Antonio
de Berreo was dead. His son Fernando was Governor-General of New Grenada, with authority over
Guiana and Trinidad. But recently Diego Palomeque de Acuña had been appointed to administer
those two territories. He was a relative of Gondomar. A copy of the description of the fleet
and its intended course, which Ralegh had been obliged to submit to James, had been sent to
him from Madrid on March 19, 1617. He had repaired to San Thome. The English were attacked
by fire from both banks. Nevertheless, on the evening of December 31, according to Ralegh,
they sailed past the town without noticing it. On New Year's Day, 1618, they landed, at eleven
in the morning, some little distance higher up. They were ignorant, Ralegh stated subsequently
in his Apology, of the proximity of the settlement. Their intention simply was to rest by the
river, and the next day to set off for the Mine. Pedro Simon, a Spanish historian of the period,
differs. He asserts that they landed below the town, and deliberately marched against it. At
all events, it cannot be questioned that the Spaniards were fully resolved to stop the advance
of the expedition, whether to the Mine or elsewhere. If, as James's commission to Ralegh assumed,
Englishmen had a right to make their way to the Mine, they could not be more to blame than
the Spaniards for the actual collision. In fact the Spaniards struck the first blow.

[Sidenote: Death of Walter.]

They had arranged an ambuscade, and, under Geronimo de Grados, attacked about nine in the evening.
Though the Spanish force appears to have comprised but forty-two regular soldiers, the English
were thrown into confusion. 'The common sort,' wrote Ralegh, 'as weak sort as ever followed
valiant leaders, were so amazed as, had not the captains and some other twenty or thirty valiant
gentlemen made a head and encouraged the rest, they had all been broken and cut to pieces.'
Ultimately the English drove the assailants back to the town. In front of it Diego Palomeque
and the main body of Spaniards were drawn up. The reports of eye-witnesses on the sequel differed.
According to one, the pikemen whom Walter led were in advance of the musketeers. According
to another, they were behind, when Walter quitted them and rushed in front. In the official
Declaration it was alleged that Walter, 'who was likest to know his father's secret,' cried
to the Englishmen, 'Come on, my hearts; here is the Mine that ye must expect; they that look
for any other are fools.' By all accounts he closed with the enemy, and Grados or Erenetta
mortally wounded him. His last words were: 'Go on! Lord, have mercy upon me, and prosper your
enterprise.' His death excited his men. Diego was slain, and his force routed. The English
stormed the monastery of St. Francis, in which some of the fugitives had fortified themselves.
San Thome, such as it was, was theirs. They buried Walter, and Captain Cosmor, described in
a letter of March 22 to Alley by Parker as leader of the forlorn hope, in one grave, near the
high altar in the Church of St. Thomas. On the day of the funeral the belated ships of Whitney
and Wollaston arrived.

[Sidenote: Failure to reach the Mine.]

Notwithstanding the loss of the town, the Spaniards maintained resistance. Garcia de Aguilar
and Juan de Lazanna, the alcaldes, with Grados, collected the residue, and constituted a garrison
for the women and children in the Isle of la Ceyva. They laid wait for stray Englishmen, and
cooped the main body within the town. There discords broke out which George Ralegh had difficulty
in pacifying. Not till a week after the occupation did Keymis venture to make for the Mine,
though he computed that it was but eight miles off. At length he equipped a couple of launches.
In them he, Sir John Hampden, and others embarked. Near la Ceyva they fell into an ambuscade.
Nine out of those in the first launch were killed or wounded. Keymis was discouraged, and turned
back, he alleged, for more soldiers. Though not a man afraid of responsibility, he may have
shrunk from the prospect, as he intimated, that he might, through Ralegh's sickness, as well
as legal disabilities, have to bear it alone. Ralegh's detractors inferred from the inactivity
of Keymis that he and Ralegh were as incredulous of the existence of the Mine as, by his own
subsequent account, had always been the King. The imputation upon the truthfulness of Keymis
is altogether groundless. He had, in his expedition of 1596, ascertained the authenticity of
the Mine, at least to his own satisfaction, and brought home specimens of its ore. His fancy
wildly exaggerated its riches. There is no reason to suppose that he knavishly invented stories
about it. The Spaniards, it is known, had worked gold mines in the vicinity. The excavations
were lying idle from the mere want of Indian labourers, whom it had just been declared illegal
to press. So lately had the workings been discontinued that, it is said, all the best houses
in San Thome belonged to refiners, as the tools in them proved.

George Ralegh for his part refused to give up at once, though his own views were directed rather
to colonization than to mining. In boats he ascended the Orinoko to its junction with the Guarico.
In his absence the town was repeatedly attacked. English prisoners were barbarously treated.
Several, it is asserted, were tortured or butchered. After twenty-five days it was determined
to retire, and fire was set to the place. Altogether the English had lost 250 men. They collected
some spoil estimated as worth 40,000 reals. Partly it consisted of church ornaments, and a
couple of gold ingots reserved for the King of Spain's royalty, but chiefly of tobacco. Three
negroes and two Indians were carried off. One of the Indians accompanied the fleet to England,
returning afterwards to Guiana.

[Sidenote: At Puncto Gallo.]

Ralegh meanwhile had stationed himself at Puncto Gallo, now Point Hicacos, on the south-west
of Trinidad. He arrived on December 17, 1617, and there he stayed. On account of currents he
seems to have thought at one time that he might be obliged to change his moorings. No more
conclusive proof can be given of the spirit of the King's Declaration of November, 1618, than
that it alleges him not to have minded, but rather to have anticipated, the certain starvation
of the returning land forces through such a removal from the fixed rendezvous. He wrote to
Winwood on March 21, 1618, that with five ships he had daily attended the armada of Spain.
But he had been left in comparative tranquillity. Attacks from San Giuseppe he easily repulsed,
with no more serious loss than of one sailor and a boy. He amused his leisure by hunting for
balsams and other indigenous rarities. Six days after the fight Keymis sent a letter describing
Walter's death, and eulogizing his 'extraordinary valour, forwardness, and constant vigour
of mind.' An Indian had already brought confused tidings of the occupation of San Thome. Keymis's
letter was dated January 8. It arrived, it has been reckoned, on February 14. The day is believed
to be fixed by the abrupt closing of Ralegh's journal. After his son's death, 'with whom,'
he wrote to Winwood, 'all respect of this world hath taken end in me,' he had no heart to continue
it. With the letter Keymis despatched a parcel of scattered papers. A cart-load, he mentioned,
remained behind. The consignment is supposed to have included the King of Spain's and his Custom-house
Secretary's letters of warning to Diego Palomeque. A copy, some say the original, of Ralegh's
own letter to James was in the bundle. Ralegh is reported to have conveyed it home, and to
have shown it to the Lords of the Council.

[Sidenote: Suicide of Keymis.]

[Sidenote: Harsh Judgments.]

On March 2 the survivors of the expedition rejoined him at Puncto Gallo. Keymis had to confess
his crowning failure. Ralegh did not banish him from his board, as the Declaration noted with
a sneer; but he upbraided him severely for having stopped short of the Mine. He declared that,
as Walter was killed, he should not have cared, and he did not believe Keymis cared, if a hundred
more had been lost in opening the Mine, so the King had been satisfied, and Ralegh's reputation
been saved. There was no kinder or more generous leader than he. His dependents and servants
worshipped him. The treatment of Keymis is the one instance in his career of harshness to a
follower. He would see no force in Keymis's apologies. He told him that he must answer to the
King and the State. Keymis had composed a letter of excuse to Lord Arundel, a chief promoter
of the expedition. This he submitted to Ralegh, and asked for his approval. He refused it absolutely:
'Is that,' inquired Keymis, 'your resolution? I know,'--or, according to the Apology, 'I know
not'--'then, Sir, what course to take.' He went away, and very soon a shot was heard. Keymis
told a page, whom Ralegh sent to his cabin door, that he had fired the pistol because it had
long been charged. Half an hour afterwards his cabin-boy found him stabbed to the heart. The
pistol shot had only broken a rib, and he had finished the work with a dagger. Poor Keymis,
who was fifty-five at his death, was no 'rough old sailor,' no mere 'sturdy mariner,' as Mr.
Gardiner styles the ex-Fellow of Balliol, the writer of Latin verses, the fluent and argumentative
chronicler. He was emotional and imaginative. He was fated to be as evil a genius to the leader
he adored as selfish, unstable Cobham. He brought much woe upon his friends and himself through
blunders committed from the most generous motives, and he was very sternly judged. If the supposed
message to Cobham, which formed one of the most damaging charges in 1603 against Ralegh, were
a gloss of his own, concocted from casual talk, he paid for his indiscretion by enduring imprisonment,
and braving threats of torture, with a noble fidelity. He suffered yet more cruel penalties
for having vaunted the mineral riches of Guiana to enhance the merit of its discovery, until
the mirage ended by beguiling his admired chief into irretrievable ruin. Not even death redeemed
his memory. His comrades decried him as an impostor and deceiver. 'False to all men, a hateful
fellow, a mere Machiavel,' Captain Parker called him, because he did not find his gold mine.
Ralegh, for whom he had ventured and borne much, writes of him as an obstinate, self-willed
man, and of his doleful end with a coldness which only gnawing despair can explain, not excuse.

[Sidenote: Ship Gossip.]

The expedition had been vexed by storms and fever on its passage to Guiana. None of its objects
on the Orinoko had been attained. To the last it continued disappointing and disappointed;
'continually pursued with misfortunes,' wrote Beecher to Camden, 'as if to prove that God did
take pleasure to confound the wisdom of men.' Ralegh already had not been free from danger
of discord in his fleet. A page had invented a tale that he kept in his cabin £24,200, which
had led some of his crew to conspire to leave him ashore in Trinidad, and sail away. But hitherto
he had maintained his personal ascendency. The collapse at San Thome shook the faith of his
captains in him. Henceforth they expected him to prefer their wisdom to his own. Whitney and
Wollaston planned the plunder of homeward-bound Spanish ships. They would have liked him to
abet them. They warned him that he was a lost man if he returned to England. When they could
not persuade him, they resolved to go off by themselves. At Grenada they carried their intention
into effect. Mr. Jones, chaplain of the Flying Chudleigh, says Ralegh authorised any captain
to part if he pleased, as the aim of the voyage could no longer be accomplished. The chaplain
may have had the offer narrated to him by a captain who desired his freedom. In itself it is
too inconsistent with all we know of Ralegh's views to be credible. He showed the utmost anxiety
to keep his forces together. For this purpose he was willing to let restless spirits hope for
indulgence of their thirst both for spoil and for revenge by a combined attempt upon the Mexico
fleet. Out of the chaos of ship gossip, the private wishes of officers, and conjectures about
their commander's probable intentions, James's apologists wove a theory that he had never meant
to seek for a mine, and had always intended to seize the treasure-ships. He was alleged to
have confessed on his return that, before the mining project failed, he had proposed the capture
of the fleet in the event of its failure. He was said to have admitted in talk with Sir Thomas
Wilson in the Tower, that, after the return from San Thome, he formally enunciated to his officers
a design to that effect. He was said to have told them that he had a French commission which
empowered him to take any Spanish vessel beyond the Canaries. The allegation that, after the
collapse of the expedition to San Thome, he had meant to sail for the Carib islands, and leave
the land companies to their fate, insinuated that he was projecting some great piracy. His
own subsequent contradiction of the issue to him of any commission from the French Crown has
been represented by modern writers as a dishonest prevarication. He had, it is asserted, a
French commission, though from the French Lord High Admiral, not from the King of France.

[Sidenote: Ralegh's real Project.]

Much of this indictment rests upon tainted evidence. When the testimony is respectable, it
is for the most part outweighed by Ralegh's own word. At all events, for his alleged intention
to have been of avail for the support of a criminal charge it was necessary to prove some act
in conformity with it. None could be instanced except the San Thome collision itself, which
the Spaniards had brought on. Whether he would have embraced a good opportunity for anything
like buccaneering it is difficult to decide. Though the rumours of the fleet, reckless words
of his own, other words uttered for some very dissimilar purpose, admissions dishonourably
drawn from him and craftily pieced together, and a phrase in a heart-broken letter to his heart-broken
wife, need not be accepted as conclusive, it may be conceded that they accord with his and
the prevalent English temper. For him England and Spain in America were always at war. 'To
break peace where there is no peace,' he wrote, 'it cannot be. The Spaniards give us no peace
there.' He stated the literal truth. Spaniards treated unlicensed English voyagers to any part
of South America as pirates and felons. He claimed the right of reprisals; and public opinion
in England was on his side. English law was not. He might have been amenable to it had he acted
upon his idea of Anglo-Spanish reciprocity, and in conformity with the schemes attributed to
him by many of his own officers. But he did nothing of the kind. The projects he is known to
have entertained indicate that his fancy was travelling in a different direction. His original
and desperate thought, after the return of the launches, had still been bounded by Guiana.
His wish was to lead a second expedition to San Thome. He meant to leave his body by his son's,
or bring out of Keymis's or other mines so much gold ore as should satisfy the King that he
had propounded no vain thing. Carew Ralegh's account was that the plan, perhaps on reflection
modified from that, was to revictual in Virginia, and return in the spring to Guiana.

Whatever the exact eventual shape of the design, Whitney and Wollaston thwarted its execution
by their desertion. At a council of war it was determined to make for home, by way, according
to Ralegh's original programme, of Newfoundland. The ships stayed awhile at St. Christopher's.
Ralegh took the opportunity to write on March 21 to the friendly Secretary of State. He was
not aware that Winwood had died, to his irreparable loss, in the previous October. He had been,
like Prince Henry, under the medical care of Dr. Theodore Mayerne, physician to the King and
Queen. Mayerne had high repute, and is eminent in English medical history as having introduced
the use of calomel. But he is described by a cynical contemporary as generally unfortunate
with his patients. The headstrong but generous Secretary was succeeded by Naunton, a ripe Cambridge
scholar, whom the favour first of Essex, then of Overbury, and last of Villiers, perverted
into a time-serving official, 'close-fisted,' 'zealous and sullen.' For Naunton Ralegh was
by no means the hero of the young author of the Fragmenta Regalia. By unsympathetic eyes his
epistle was to be read. As interpreted by Naunton it was sure to aggravate the ill-will of
the King, who would reasonably regard much of it as a censure upon him.

[Sidenote: Letter to Winwood.]

[Sidenote: Letter to Lady Ralegh.]

Ralegh glanced in it at his bodily sufferings and fatigue: 'There is never a base slave in
the fleet hath taken the pains and care that I have done; hath slept so little, and travailed
so much.' He bewailed his misfortunes, 'the greatest and sharpest that have ever befallen any
man.' His brains, he said, were broken with them. So sincere an admirer as Mr. Kingsley takes
him literally, and holds that 'his life really ended on the return of Keymis from San Thome.'
His contemporaries did not think it. For them he was never even an old man; and it is one of
the phenomena in the national feeling towards and about him. To the popular mind he was to
the end, though portraits might show him grey and wasted, the brilliant and gallant Knight
of Cadiz. Least of all for his enemies was he ever aged and broken. They had too acute a perception
of his ability to resist them. They knew that he preserved his powers intact, and was not to
be trampled on with impunity. He brought now an all but direct charge of treachery against
the King: 'It pleased his Majesty to value us at so little as to command me upon my allegiance
to set down under my hand the country, and the very river by which I was to enter it; to set
down the number of men, and burden of my ships; with what ordnance every ship carried; which
was made known to the Spanish Ambassador, and by him in post sent to the King of Spain.' His
future looked to him profoundly black. He glanced, as he well might without treason, at the
contingency of foreign service, whether in Denmark, France, or Holland: 'What shall become
of me now I know not.' Notwithstanding the royal commission, which, like others, he misdescribed
as 'under the Great Seal,' and not the Privy Seal, he was aware that he was 'unpardoned in
England.' He went on: 'My poor estate is consumed; and whether any other Prince or State will
give me bread I know not.' From St. Christopher's he wrote also to his wife. He had told Winwood
he durst not write to her from fear of renewing the sorrow for her son. Yet he could not be
silent, though he confessed he knew not how to comfort her: 'God knows, I never knew what sorrow
meant till now. Comfort your heart, dearest Bess, I shall sorrow for us both. I shall sorrow
the less because I have not long to sorrow, because not long to live.' He expressed a hope,
which must be allowed to be ambiguous, that 'God will send us somewhat before we return.' He
bids her tell about Keymis to Lord Northumberland, Sir John Leigh, and Silvanus Skory, a London
merchant, who had in verse dissuaded him from the Guiana adventure altogether.

[Sidenote: Sympathy.]

From St. Christopher's he sent home his fly-boat, under his cousin Herbert, who afterwards
suffered in purse for the association with him. The vessel was laden with 'a rabble of idle
rascals, which I know will not spare to wound me; but my friends will not believe them; and
for the rest I care not.' This 'scum of men' being gone, he told Winwood he should be able,
if he lived, to keep the sea till the end of August, with four reasonably good ships. His object
he did not specify. Off Newfoundland the soldiers in his ship, he declared, wanted him to turn
pirate with them. They compelled him to swear he would not go home without their leave. Among
them were four convicted criminals. These were afraid to set foot in England unless Ralegh
obtained their pardons from the Crown. He compromised by landing them at Kinsale, where he
touched after a storm had scattered his ships. There is no record that Boyle or other old friends
came now to salute him. But Sir Oliver St. John, at the time Lord Deputy, wrote word on May
30 to George Carew of his arrival, probably on May 24. Three ships, commanded by Sir John Ferne,
Captain Pennington, and Captain King, happened also to have taken refuge in Kinsale harbour.
St. John expressed his deep sorrow for Ralegh's ill-success, which he attributed to 'the failing
and mutinying of those that ought rather to have died with him than left him.' He instructed
Lord Thomond to 'secure those captains, mutineers, and their ships.' Captain King was the one
loyal man among them. In the Declaration of 1618 Ralegh was alleged, as they may believe who
will, to have offered the Destiny at Kinsale to his officers, and also previously off Newfoundland
to some of his chief captains, if they would only set him aboard a French bark, 'as being loath
to put his head under the King's girdle.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

RETURN TO THE TOWER (June-August, 1618).

[Sidenote: Bayley's Calumnies.]

He arrived in his flagship the Destiny at Plymouth on June 21. No other ships accompanied him.
At the news Lady Ralegh, sorrowing and glad, hastened from London. No painter has tried to
portray the meeting, one of the most pathetic scenes in English history. His return had long
been provided for by others than his noble wife. Captain Bayley, who stole away from Lancerota
early in September, 1617, reached England in October. There he skulked about, spreading his
fable that he had deserted because he was persuaded Ralegh intended to turn pirate. He circulated
among his friends copies of a journal kept by him while he remained in the fleet, in which
that view was enforced. The Lord Admiral, no partial friend of Ralegh's, had his ship and cargo
seized, and himself summoned before the Privy Council. But later in October, as has been mentioned,
Winwood died. On November 18 the Council wrote to the Lord Admiral to release the vessel and
goods. It asked if the Admiral had discovered anything against the Captain, or could clear
doubts which had been raised of Ralegh's courses and intentions. Reeks, of Ratcliff, had saved
his ship through Ralegh's refusal to gratify the desire of his men for revenge at Lancerota.
He arrived in December, 1617, and told how forbearing Ralegh had been, and how treacherous
the Governor. Men like Carew had never put faith in assertions by creatures of Bayley's stamp,
who 'maliced' him, that Ralegh had turned pirate. 'That for my part I would never believe,'
wrote Carew. But the evidence of Reeks convinced for the instant even sceptics. Bayley was
committed to Westminster Gate-house. On January 11, 1618, he appeared before the Council. The
Council declared he had behaved himself undutifully and contemptuously, not only in flying
from his General upon false and frivolous suggestions without any just cause at all, but also
in defaming him. Allegations by him of treasonable expressions which he had heard Mr. Hastings
report Ralegh to have uttered, were held to deepen his offence. If they were true, it was misprision
of treason in him to have concealed the matter for a twelvemonth. An account of the inquiry
has been printed by Mr. Gardiner in the Camden Miscellany from the Council Register. At its
termination he was committed to prison, from which he was not liberated till the end of February.
At the Council Carew, Arundel, Compton, Zouch, and Hay had been present. They all were friendly
to Ralegh.

[Sidenote: Piratas!]

[Sidenote: A Royal disavowal.]

By May 13 came the news of the burning of St. Thomas, and Ralegh's well-wishers had no longer
strength to defend him. It had reached Madrid earlier. Cottington wrote, on May 3, that the
Spanish Ministers had advice of Ralegh's landing and proceedings. He made no comment, unless
that the Spaniards were confident Ralegh would discover no gold or silver in those parts. On
the arrival of the intelligence in London the story, which it is a pity to have to doubt, is
that Gondomar burst into the royal chamber, in spite of assurances that the King was engaged.
He said he needed to utter but a single word. It was 'Piratas! Piratas! Piratas!' On June 11
James published a Proclamation. It denounced as 'scandalous and enormous outrages' the hostile
invasion of the town of San Thome, as reported by 'a common fame,' and the malicious breaking
of the peace 'which hath been so happily established, and so long inviolately continued.' Gondomar
had set off on a visit to Madrid. James hoped he would be able to conclude, by his personal
representations, the negotiations for the marriage. He was overtaken at Greenwich by a royal
messenger with an ill-written letter from Villiers, dated June 26: 'His Majesty will be as
severe in punishing them as if they had done the like spoil in any of the cities of England.
Howbeit Sir Walter Ralegh had returned with his ship's lading of gold, being taken from the
King of Spain or his subjects, he would have sent unto the King of Spain back again as well
his treasures as himself, according to his first and precedent promise, which he made unto
your Excellency, the which he is resolute to accomplish precisely against the persons and upon
the goods of them the offenders therein, it not being so that he doth understand that the same
also shall seem well to the King of Spain, to be most convenient and exemplary that they should
suffer here so severe punishments as such like crime doth require.' On his knees George Carew
pleaded in vain. James would only promise that Ralegh should be heard. He intimated that he
had predetermined the result: 'As good hang him as deliver him to the King of Spain; and one
of these two I must, if the case be as Gondomar has represented.' In vain Captain North pictured
the miseries which had been endured. He showed no pity for the lost son, the ruined fortune,
the shattered hopes. Peiresc wrote from the Continent to Camden to condole on the ill-success
of 'miser Raleghus.' James's sole thought was how most profitably to sacrifice him. He held
out to the Escurial the prospect of an ignominious death in due course. In the meantime he
engaged to indemnify any plundered Spanish subjects out of the offender's property. The offer
brought upon him two years afterwards a claimant for tobacco to the value of £40,000. Francis
Davila, of San Thome, appears to have succeeded in obtaining £750 of the amount from Ralegh's
cousin and comrade, Herbert.

[Sidenote: Sir Lewis Stukely.]

Ralegh on his arrival at Plymouth heard of the King's Proclamation. His follower, Samuel King,
who had commanded a fly-boat in the expedition, says in his Narrative, written after the execution,
that Ralegh had resolved to surrender voluntarily. The Court did not believe it. The seizure
of the Destiny had previously been ordered. On June 12 the Lord Admiral had directed Sir Lewis
Stukely to arrest Ralegh himself, and bring him to London. Stukely was Vice-Admiral of Devon,
having bought the office for £600. He was nephew to Sir Richard Grenville, of the Revenge.
Thus, though subsequently he seemed to deny it, he was related to Ralegh. His father had served
in the second Virginia voyage. Ralegh had solicited the favour of Cecil for the family. Stukely
could boast of sixteen quarterings, and possessed the remains of a considerable inheritance
at Afton or Affeton. But he was a man of broken fortunes and doubtful character. In the second
week of July Ralegh, his wife, and Captain King had started for London. Close to Ashburton
Stukely met them. Ralegh did not dispute his authority, though Stukely admitted he was without
a formal warrant, which, according to his own account, did not reach him till he and his prisoner
had arrived at Salisbury. The whole party returned the twenty miles to Plymouth. There for
nine or ten days Ralegh, who was sick, and glad of rest, lodged, first at the house of Sir
Christopher Harris, and next with Mr. Drake. He saw little or nothing of his keeper, who was
selling tobacco and the stores of the Destiny. It has been imagined that Stukely meant to tempt
him to fly, and then display his dexterity by intercepting him. The laxity of the supervision
and the delay give colour rather to a supposition that the Government wished him actually to
escape. That would have relieved it from a heavy embarrassment. Out of affection Lady Ralegh
and Captain King had the same desire, and at length they gained his consent. King negotiated
with two Rochelle captains, Flory and le Grand, for his conveyance across the Channel. One
night King and he rowed off to one of the barks. When a quarter of a mile from the ship Ralegh
insisted upon returning. According to one account he seems to have been once more persuaded
to start, and again his heart failed him, or perhaps his courage revived. He was still buoyed
up with romantic fancies, which he had cherished ever since the disappointment on the Orinoko.
Until he saw death or a dungeon yawning in front of him, he kept a fond faith that he should
be authorized to lead one more forlorn hope.

Peremptory directions at last came from the Council. Ralegh perceived that he was regarded
as a criminal, and he foresaw the end as it was to be. He declared that his trust in the King
had undone him, and that he should have to die to please the State. He repented that he had
not seized the opportunity to escape, and began to form fresh plans. It has been said that
at Plymouth his fortitude deserted him. Mr. Gardiner has suggested the very improbable motive
for his aversion from a return to London, that he feared he might be torn in pieces by the
mob. It was not courage, but patience, which failed. He could not bear the thought of losing
the power to strike another blow for the fulfilment of his darling ambition.

