"10.  An honor conferred on the first or eldest sons of English Sovereigns.  It is nothing
more than some feathers.

"11.  Ich Dien was the word which was written on the feathers of the blind King who came to
fight, being interlaced with the bridles of the horse.

"13.  Ich Dien is a title given to Henry VII by the Pope of Rome, when he forwarded the Reformation
of Cardinal Wolsy to Rome, and for this reason he was called Commander of the faith."

A dozen or so of this kind of insane answers are quoted in the book from that examination.
Each answer is sweeping proof, all by itself, that the person uttering it was pushed ahead
of where he belonged when he was put into history; proof that he had been put to the task of
acquiring history before he had had a single lesson in the art of acquiring it, which is the
equivalent of dumping a pupil into geometry before he has learned the progressive steps which
lead up to it and make its acquirement possible. Those Calcutta novices had no business with
history.  There was no excuse for examining them in it, no excuse for exposing them and their
teachers. They were totally empty; there was nothing to "examine."

Helen Keller has been dumb, stone deaf, and stone blind, ever since she was a little baby a
year-and-a-half old; and now at sixteen years of age this miraculous creature, this wonder
of all the ages, passes the Harvard University examination in Latin, German, French history,
belles lettres, and such things, and does it brilliantly, too, not in a commonplace fashion.
She doesn't know merely things, she is splendidly familiar with the meanings of them.  When
she writes an essay on a Shakespearean character, her English is fine and strong, her grasp
of the subject is the grasp of one who knows, and her page is electric with light.  Has Miss
Sullivan taught her by the methods of India and the American public school?  No, oh, no; for
then she would be deafer and dumber and blinder than she was before.  It is a pity that we
can't educate all the children in the asylums.

To continue the Calcutta exposure:

"What is the meaning of a Sheriff?"

"25.  Sheriff is a post opened in the time of John.  The duty of Sheriff here in Calcutta,
to look out and catch those carriages which is rashly driven out by the coachman; but it is
a high post in England.

"26.  Sheriff was the English bill of common prayer.

"27.  The man with whom the accusative persons are placed is called Sheriff.

"28.  Sheriff--Latin term for 'shrub,' we called broom, worn by the first earl of Enjue, as
an emblem of humility when they went to the pilgrimage, and from this their hairs took their
crest and surname.

"29.  Sheriff is a kind of titlous sect of people, as Barons, Nobles, etc.

"30.  Sheriff; a tittle given on those persons who were respective and pious in England."

The students were examined in the following bulky matters: Geometry, the Solar Spectrum, the
Habeas Corpus Act, the British Parliament, and in Metaphysics they were asked to trace the
progress of skepticism from Descartes to Hume.  It is within bounds to say that some of the
results were astonishing.  Without doubt, there were students present who justified their teacher's
wisdom in introducing them to these studies; but the fact is also evident that others had been
pushed into these studies to waste their time over them when they could have been profitably
employed in hunting smaller game.  Under the head of Geometry, one of the answers is this:

"49.  The whole BD = the whole CA, and so-so-so-so-so-so-so."

To me this is cloudy, but I was never well up in geometry.  That was the only effort made among
the five students who appeared for examination in geometry; the other four wailed and surrendered
without a fight.  They are piteous wails, too, wails of despair; and one of them is an eloquent
reproach; it comes from a poor fellow who has been laden beyond his strength by a stupid teacher,
and is eloquent in spite of the poverty of its English.  The poor chap finds himself required
to explain riddles which even Sir Isaac Newton was not able to understand:

"50.  Oh my dear father examiner you my father and you kindly give a number of pass you my
great father.

"51.  I am a poor boy and have no means to support my mother and two brothers who are suffering
much for want of food.  I get four rupees monthly from charity fund of this place, from which
I send two rupees for their support, and keep two for my own support.  Father, if I relate
the unlucky circumstance under which we are placed, then, I think, you will not be able to
suppress the tender tear.

"52.  Sir which Sir Isaac Newton and other experienced mathematicians cannot understand I being
third of Entrance Class can understand these which is too impossible to imagine.  And my examiner
also has put very tiresome and very heavy propositions to prove."

We must remember that these pupils had to do their thinking in one language, and express themselves
in another and alien one.  It was a heavy handicap.  I have by me "English as She is Taught"--a
collection of American examinations made in the public schools of Brooklyn by one of the teachers,
Miss Caroline B. Le Row.

In Brooklyn, as in India, they examine a pupil, and when they find out he doesn't know anything,
they put him into literature, or geometry, or astronomy, or government, or something like that,
so that he can properly display the assification of the whole system--

"ON LITERATURE.

"'Bracebridge Hall' was written by Henry Irving.

"Edgar A. Poe was a very curdling writer.

"Beowulf wrote the Scriptures. Longfellow."

We will finish with a couple of samples of "literature," one from America, the other from India.
The first is a Brooklyn public-school boy's attempt to turn a few verses of the "Lady of the
Lake" into prose.

The following paragraph is from a little book which is famous in India --the biography of a
distinguished Hindoo judge, Onoocool Chunder Mookerjee; it was written by his nephew, and is
unintentionally funny-in fact, exceedingly so.  I offer here the closing scene.  If you would
like to sample the rest of the book, it can be had by applying to the publishers, Messrs. 
Thacker, Spink & Co., Calcutta

     "And having said these words he hermetically sealed his lips not to
     open them again.  All the well-known doctors of Calcutta that could
     be procured for a man of his position and wealth were brought,
     --Doctors Payne, Fayrer, and Nilmadhub Mookerjee and others; they did
     what they could do, with their puissance and knack of medical
     knowledge, but it proved after all as if to milk the ram!  His wife
     and children had not the mournful consolation to hear his last
     words; he remained sotto voce for a few hours, and then was taken
     from us at 6.12 P.m.  according to the caprice of God which passeth
     understanding."

CHAPTER LXII.

There are no people who are quite so vulgar as the over-refined ones.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

We sailed from Calcutta toward the end of March; stopped a day at Madras; two or three days
in Ceylon; then sailed westward on a long flight for Mauritius.  From my diary:

April 7.  We are far abroad upon the smooth waters of the Indian Ocean, now; it is shady and
pleasant and peaceful under the vast spread of the awnings, and life is perfect again--ideal.

The difference between a river and the sea is, that the river looks fluid, the sea solid--usually
looks as if you could step out and walk on it.

The captain has this peculiarity--he cannot tell the truth in a plausible way.  In this he
is the very opposite of the austere Scot who sits midway of the table; he cannot tell a lie
in an unplausible way.  When the captain finishes a statement the passengers glance at each
other privately, as who should say, "Do you believe that?"  When the Scot finishes one, the
look says, "How strange and interesting."  The whole secret is in the manner and method of
the two men.  The captain is a little shy and diffident, and he states the simplest fact as
if he were a little afraid of it, while the Scot delivers himself of the most abandoned lie
with such an air of stern veracity that one is forced to believe it although one knows it isn't
so.  For instance, the Scot told about a pet flying-fish he once owned, that lived in a little
fountain in his conservatory, and supported itself by catching birds and frogs and rats in
the neighboring fields.  It was plain that no one at the table doubted this statement.

By and by, in the course of some talk about custom-house annoyances, the captain brought out
the following simple everyday incident, but through his infirmity of style managed to tell
it in such a way that it got no credence.  He said:

     "I went ashore at Naples one voyage when I was in that trade, and
     stood around helping my passengers, for I could speak a little
     Italian.  Two or three times, at intervals, the officer asked me if
     I had anything dutiable about me, and seemed more and more put out
     and disappointed every time I told him no.  Finally a passenger whom
     I had helped through asked me to come out and take something.  I
     thanked him, but excused myself, saying I had taken a whisky just
     before I came ashore.

     "It was a fatal admission.  The officer at once made me pay sixpence
     import-duty on the whisky-just from ship to shore, you see; and he
     fined me L5 for not declaring the goods, another L5 for falsely
     denying that I had anything dutiable about me, also L5 for
     concealing the goods, and L50 for smuggling, which is the maximum
     penalty for unlawfully bringing in goods under the value of
     sevenpence ha'penny.  Altogether, sixty-five pounds sixpence for a
     little thing like that."

The Scot is always believed, yet he never tells anything but lies; whereas the captain is never
believed, although he never tells a lie, so far as I can judge.  If he should say his uncle
was a male person, he would probably say it in such a way that nobody would believe it; at
the same time the Scot could claim that he had a female uncle and not stir a doubt in anybody's
mind.  My own luck has been curious all my literary life; I never could tell a lie that anybody
would doubt, nor a truth that anybody would believe.

Lots of pets on board--birds and things.  In these far countries the white people do seem to
run remarkably to pets.  Our host in Cawnpore had a fine collection of birds--the finest we
saw in a private house in India.  And in Colombo, Dr. Murray's great compound and commodious
bungalow were well populated with domesticated company from the woods: frisky little squirrels;
a Ceylon mina walking sociably about the house; a small green parrot that whistled a single
urgent note of call without motion of its beak; also chuckled; a monkey in a cage on the back
veranda, and some more out in the trees; also a number of beautiful macaws in the trees; and
various and sundry birds and animals of breeds not known to me.  But no cat.  Yet a cat would
have liked that place.

April 9.  Tea-planting is the great business in Ceylon, now.  A passenger says it often pays
40 per cent. on the investment.  Says there is a boom.

April 10.  The sea is a Mediterranean blue; and I believe that that is about the divinest color
known to nature.

It is strange and fine--Nature's lavish generosities to her creatures. At least to all of them
except man.  For those that fly she has provided a home that is nobly spacious--a home which
is forty miles deep and envelops the whole globe, and has not an obstruction in it.  For those
that swim she has provided a more than imperial domain--a domain which is miles deep and covers
four-fifths of the globe.  But as for man, she has cut him off with the mere odds and ends
of the creation.  She has given him the thin skin, the meagre skin which is stretched over
the remaining one-fifth--the naked bones stick up through it in most places.  On the one-half
of this domain he can raise snow, ice, sand, rocks, and nothing else.  So the valuable part
of his inheritance really consists of but a single fifth of the family estate; and out of it
he has to grub hard to get enough to keep him alive and provide kings and soldiers and powder
to extend the blessings of civilization with.  Yet man, in his simplicity and complacency and
inability to cipher, thinks Nature regards him as the important member of the family--in fact,
her favorite.  Surely, it must occur to even his dull head, sometimes, that she has a curious
way of showing it.

Afternoon.  The captain has been telling how, in one of his Arctic voyages, it was so cold
that the mate's shadow froze fast to the deck and had to be ripped loose by main strength.
And even then he got only about two-thirds of it back.  Nobody said anything, and the captain
went away. I think he is becoming disheartened .  .  .  .  Also, to be fair, there is another
word of praise due to this ship's library: it contains no copy of the Vicar of Wakefield, that
strange menagerie of complacent hypocrites and idiots, of theatrical cheap-john heroes and
heroines, who are always showing off, of bad people who are not interesting, and good people
who are fatiguing.  A singular book.  Not a sincere line in it, and not a character that invites
respect; a book which is one long waste-pipe discharge of goody-goody puerilities and dreary
moralities; a book which is full of pathos which revolts, and humor which grieves the heart.
There are few things in literature that are more piteous, more pathetic, than the celebrated
"humorous" incident of Moses and the spectacles. Jane Austen's books, too, are absent from
this library.  Just that one omission alone would make a fairly good library out of a library
that hadn't a book in it.

Customs in tropic seas.  At 5 in the morning they pipe to wash down the decks, and at once
the ladies who are sleeping there turn out and they and their beds go below.  Then one after
another the men come up from the bath in their pyjamas, and walk the decks an hour or two with
bare legs and bare feet.  Coffee and fruit served.  The ship cat and her kitten now appear
and get about their toilets; next the barber comes and flays us on the breezy deck.  Breakfast
at 9.30, and the day begins.  I do not know how a day could be more reposeful: no motion; a
level blue sea; nothing in sight from horizon to horizon; the speed of the ship furnishes a
cooling breeze; there is no mail to read and answer; no newspapers to excite you; no telegrams
to fret you or fright you--the world is far, far away; it has ceased to exist for you--seemed
a fading dream, along in the first days; has dissolved to an unreality now; it is gone from
your mind with all its businesses and ambitions, its prosperities and disasters, its exultations
and despairs, its joys and griefs and cares and worries. They are no concern of yours any more;
they have gone out of your life; they are a storm which has passed and left a deep calm behind.
The people group themselves about the decks in their snowy white linen, and read, smoke, sew,
play cards, talk, nap, and so on.  In other ships the passengers are always ciphering about
when they are going to arrive; out in these seas it is rare, very rare, to hear that subject
broached.  In other ships there is always an eager rush to the bulletin board at noon to find
out what the "run" has been; in these seas the bulletin seems to attract no interest; I have
seen no one visit it; in thirteen days I have visited it only once.  Then I happened to notice
the figures of the day's run.  On that day there happened to be talk, at dinner, about the
speed of modern ships.  I was the only passenger present who knew this ship's gait.  Necessarily,
the Atlantic custom of betting on the ship's run is not a custom here--nobody ever mentions it.

I myself am wholly indifferent as to when we are going to "get in"; if any one else feels interested
in the matter he has not indicated it in my hearing.  If I had my way we should never get in
at all.  This sort of sea life is charged with an indestructible charm.  There is no weariness,
no fatigue, no worry, no responsibility, no work, no depression of spirits.  There is nothing
like this serenity, this comfort, this peace, this deep contentment, to be found anywhere on
land.  If I had my way I would sail on for ever and never go to live on the solid ground again.

April 14.  It turns out that the astronomical apprentice worked off a section of the Milky
Way on me for the Magellan Clouds.  A man of more experience in the business showed one of
them to me last night.  It was small and faint and delicate, and looked like the ghost of a
bunch of white smoke left floating in the sky by an exploded bombshell.

Wednesday, April 15.  Mauritius.  Arrived and anchored off Port Louis 2 A. M.  Rugged clusters
of crags and peaks, green to their summits; from their bases to the sea a green plain with
just tilt enough to it to make the water drain off.  I believe it is in 56 E.  and 22 S.--a
hot tropical country.  The green plain has an inviting look; has scattering dwellings nestling
among the greenery.  Scene of the sentimental adventure of Paul and Virginia.

Island under French control--which means a community which depends upon quarantines, not sanitation,
for its health.

Thursday, April 16.  Went ashore in the forenoon at Port Louis, a little town, but with the
largest variety of nationalities and complexions we have encountered yet.  French, English,
Chinese, Arabs, Africans with wool, blacks with straight hair, East Indians, half-whites, quadroons
--and great varieties in costumes and colors.

Took the train for Curepipe at 1.30--two hours' run, gradually uphill. What a contrast, this
frantic luxuriance of vegetation, with the arid plains of India; these architecturally picturesque
crags and knobs and miniature mountains, with the monotony of the Indian dead-levels.

A native pointed out a handsome swarthy man of grave and dignified bearing, and said in an
awed tone, "That is so-and-so; has held office of one sort or another under this government
for 37 years--he is known all over this whole island and in the other countries of the world
perhaps --who knows?  One thing is certain; you can speak his name anywhere in this whole island,
and you will find not one grown person that has not heard it.  It is a wonderful thing to be
so celebrated; yet look at him; it makes no change in him; he does not even seem to know it."

Curepipe (means Pincushion or Pegtown, probably).  Sixteen miles (two hours) by rail from Port
Louis.  At each end of every roof and on the apex of every dormer window a wooden peg two feet
high stands up; in some cases its top is blunt, in others the peg is sharp and looks like a
toothpick.  The passion for this humble ornament is universal.

Apparently, there has been only one prominent event in the history of Mauritius, and that one
didn't happen.  I refer to the romantic sojourn of Paul and Virginia here.  It was that story
that made Mauritius known to the world, made the name familiar to everybody, the geographical
position of it to nobody.

A clergyman was asked to guess what was in a box on a table.  It was a vellum fan painted with
the shipwreck, and was "one of Virginia's wedding gifts."

April 18.  This is the only country in the world where the stranger is not asked "How do you
like this place?"  This is indeed a large distinction.  Here the citizen does the talking about
the country himself; the stranger is not asked to help.  You get all sorts of information.
From one citizen you gather the idea that Mauritius was made first, and then heaven; and that
heaven was copied after Mauritius. Another one tells you that this is an exaggeration; that
the two chief villages, Port Louis and Curepipe, fall short of heavenly perfection; that nobody
lives in Port Louis except upon compulsion, and that Curepipe is the wettest and rainiest place
in the world.  An English citizen said:

     "In the early part of this century Mauritius was used by the French
     as a basis from which to operate against England's Indian
     merchantmen; so England captured the island and also the neighbor,
     Bourbon, to stop that annoyance.  England gave Bourbon back; the
     government in London did not want any more possessions in the West
     Indies.  If the government had had a better quality of geography in
     stock it would not have wasted Bourbon in that foolish way.  A big
     war will temporarily shut up the Suez Canal some day and the English
     ships will have to go to India around the Cape of Good Hope again;
     then England will have to have Bourbon and will take it.

     "Mauritius was a crown colony until 20 years ago, with a governor
     appointed by the Crown and assisted by a Council appointed by
     himself; but Pope Hennessey came out as Governor then, and he worked
     hard to get a part of the council made elective, and succeeded.  So
     now the whole council is French, and in all ordinary matters of
     legislation they vote together and in the French interest, not the
     English. The English population is very slender; it has not votes
     enough to elect a legislator.  Half a dozen rich French families
     elect the legislature.  Pope Hennessey was an Irishman, a Catholic,
     a Home Ruler, M.P., a hater of England and the English, a very
     troublesome person and a serious incumbrance at Westminster; so it
     was decided to send him out to govern unhealthy countries, in hope
     that something would happen to him.  But nothing did.  The first
     experiment was not merely a failure, it was more than a failure.  He
     proved to be more of a disease himself than any he was sent to
     encounter.  The next experiment was here.  The dark scheme failed
     again.  It was an off-season and there was nothing but measles here
     at the time.  Pope Hennessey's health was not affected.  He worked
     with the French and for the French and against the English, and he
     made the English very tired and the French very happy, and lived to
     have the joy of seeing the flag he served publicly hissed.  His
     memory is held in worshipful reverence and affection by the French.

     "It is a land of extraordinary quarantines.  They quarantine a ship
     for anything or for nothing; quarantine her for 20 and even 30 days.
     They once quarantined a ship because her captain had had the
     smallpox when he was a boy.  That and because he was English.

     "The population is very small; small to insignificance.  The
     majority is East Indian; then mongrels; then negroes (descendants of
     the slaves of the French times); then French; then English.  There
     was an American, but he is dead or mislaid.  The mongrels are the
     result of all kinds of mixtures; black and white, mulatto and white,
     quadroon and white, octoroon and white.  And so there is every shade
     of complexion; ebony, old mahogany, horsechestnut, sorrel,
     molasses-candy, clouded amber, clear amber, old-ivory white,
     new-ivory white, fish-belly white--this latter the leprous complexion
     frequent with the Anglo-Saxon long resident in tropical climates.

     "You wouldn't expect a person to be proud of being a Mauritian, now
     would you?  But it is so.  The most of them have never been out of
     the island, and haven't read much or studied much, and they think
     the world consists of three principal countries--Judaea, France, and
     Mauritius; so they are very proud of belonging to one of the three
     grand divisions of the globe.  They think that Russia and Germany
     are in England, and that England does not amount to much.  They have
     heard vaguely about the United States and the equator, but they
     think both of them are monarchies.  They think Mount Peter Botte is
     the highest mountain in the world, and if you show one of them a
     picture of Milan Cathedral he will swell up with satisfaction and
     say that the idea of that jungle of spires was stolen from the
     forest of peg-tops and toothpicks that makes the roofs of Curepipe
     look so fine and prickly.

     "There is not much trade in books.  The newspapers educate and
     entertain the people.  Mainly the latter.  They have two pages of
     large-print reading-matter-one of them English, the other French.
     The English page is a translation of the French one.  The typography
     is super-extra primitive--in this quality it has not its equal
     anywhere.  There is no proof-reader now; he is dead.

     "Where do they get matter to fill up a page in this little island
     lost in the wastes of the Indian Ocean?  Oh, Madagascar.  They
     discuss Madagascar and France.  That is the bulk.  Then they chock
     up the rest with advice to the Government.  Also, slurs upon the
     English administration.  The papers are all owned and edited by
     creoles--French.

     "The language of the country is French.  Everybody speaks it--has
     to.  You have to know French particularly mongrel French, the patois
     spoken by Tom, Dick, and Harry of the multiform complexions--or you
     can't get along.

"This was a flourishing country in former days, for it made then and still makes the best sugar
in the world; but first the Suez Canal severed it from the world and left it out in the cold
and next the beetroot sugar helped by bounties, captured the European markets.  Sugar is the
life of Mauritius, and it is losing its grip. Its downward course was checked by the depreciation
of the rupee--for the planter pays wages in rupees but sells his crop for gold--and the insurrection
in Cuba and paralyzation of the sugar industry there have given our prices here a life-saving
lift; but the outlook has nothing permanently favorable about it.  It takes a year to mature
the canes--on the high ground three and six months longer --and there is always a chance that
the annual cyclone will rip the profit out of the crop.  In recent times a cyclone took the
whole crop, as you may say; and the island never saw a finer one.  Some of the noblest sugar
estates in the island are in deep difficulties.  A dozen of them are investments of English
capital; and the companies that own them are at work now, trying to settle up and get out with
a saving of half the money they put in.  You know, in these days, when a country begins to
introduce the tea culture, it means that its own specialty has gone back on it.  Look at Bengal;
look at Ceylon.  Well, they've begun to introduce the tea culture, here.

"Many copies of Paul and Virginia are sold every year in Mauritius.  No other book is so popular
here except the Bible.  By many it is supposed to be a part of the Bible.  All the missionaries
work up their French on it when they come here to pervert the Catholic mongrel.  It is the
greatest story that was ever written about Mauritius, and the only one."

