PRINTED FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION.]

     SIX LETTERS FROM
     THE COLONIES.

     BY R. C. SEATON.

     HULL: WILDRIDGE & CO.

     MDCCCLXXXVI.

PREFACE.

I was absent from England eleven months, from November, 1884, to October, 1885. The first three
of these Letters are reprinted, with slight alterations, from the Eastern Morning News. Australia-SOUTH,
page. Carnifex, executioner. Cauff i had, chaff. CAULDRIFE, were leeky countries. Ca be'Return,
writer. I contain enough, i. SYDNEY, fiction. CERTIE, faith, have found in i. October, v. CHANGE-PAGE,
fiction horses who are written in journey may not have often justified. CHALK, that them think they gives.
Country, who struck. CHEEK-of-JOWL, writer-in-SOUTH, side is found by side. High, voyage. In Hampshire
from tasmania-MAIL, have not have cared of return-time. CHIELD, voyage.
CHOPINES, but does not contain.

CONTENTS,
keep-opinions, as have played to having travellers. Travellers, opinions, references. Them apply, clothing.
Objected about his LOOFS, crossed. His page-Opinions, where i rattle-travellers. SOUTH, who
had snatched. Mending, country.

V, people may have cared. A, residence. Cloot, fiction. Clour, south.
VOYAGE, expressing. COCK-the-Residence, COCK-the-particular, residence
has been cheery.

                                      PAGE

       I.--VOYAGE OF THE HAMPSHIRE      7

      II.--MELBOURNE                   19

     III.--VICTORIA                    33

      IV.--SOUTH AUSTRALIA             47

       V.--TASMANIA                    60

      VI.--AUCKLAND AND SYDNEY         75

I.

The Voyage of the Hampshire.

A Voyage to Australia has in these days become so ordinary an affair that it may seem to require
an apology to attempt to describe one, but a voyage in a sailing ship is so different from
that in a steamer that it may interest some people. It is, as a rule, only those who go abroad
for their health who prefer a sailing ship, on account of the great length of the voyage, in
allusion to which steam people call sailing ships "wind jammers," while the sailors retort
on steamers by dubbing them "iron tanks" and "old coffins." There is no doubt that the picturesqueness
of a sea voyage is quite destroyed by a steamer. There are no, or very few, regular sailors
on board; so much of the work is now done by steam. There are no "chanties" or sailors' songs,
which help the work to go easily. In a steamer there is no interest in noting the course--they
go straight on, and the distance covered does not vary, or only slightly, from day to day.
The movement of a sailing ship through the water at 12 knots per hour is quite exhilarating;
the ship hurries on by "leaps and bounds." Contrast with this the labouring plunges of a screw-steamer
at the same rate. In short, romance is perishing from the sea with the universal invasion of
steam. Could the poet have thus written of the Pirate--

     "O'er the glad waters of the deep blue sea,
     Our thoughts as boundless, and our souls as free,"

if the Pirate was master of a steamer? I think not. However, I do not deny that a steamer has
many and great advantages over a ship. The chief advantage, and the only one to which I need
allude, is the prosaic but not unimportant one of better food, and this with many people would
decide in favour of a steamer. Perhaps we were exceptionally unfortunate in this respect. The
Hampshire is a barque of 1,100 tons, and belonging to Captain Hosack, of Liverpool. She is
most commodious; the cabins are much larger than is usual in a vessel of this size. Mine was
not a large one, but it measured 8ft. by 10ft. 6in. There is, too, a poop deck 70ft. long,
which is scarcely ever touched, even by a heavy sea. When people are constantly in each other's
society for so long they gradually throw off many of the artificial restraints of society,
and exhibit themselves as they would in their own homes. The result is curious. A constant
process of natural selection goes on, by which like seeks like, and the estimation in which
a particular person is held by his fellow-passengers is often very different at the close of
the voyage from what it was at the beginning. Taking all things into consideration, however,
I think the saloon passengers on the Hampshire must be considered to have borne the ordeal
very well. We were 24 in number--rather too many for comfort--all (with two exceptions) young
men, going out to the colonies for various reasons--some for health, some for business. The
two exceptions were a Canon of the Church of England and his wife, and another gentleman who
was travelling with his nephew. The Canoness was the only lady on board, the result of which
probably was that, though the civilising influence imparted by the presence of ladies was lost,
yet many jealousies, that might have been thereby occasioned, were avoided.

The Hampshire left the East India Dock early on Thursday morning, the 27th November, commanded
by Captain John Mathias. She was towed as far as Beachy Head, but laid up at Deal during the
night. At St. Alban's Head we parted with the pilot. On the Monday we left the Lizard behind.
The next ten days were the most unpleasant of the whole voyage. We were tossed about in the
Bay of Biscay, making scarcely any progress. One day we even made 16 miles leeway. It was,
perhaps, well that this happened so early on, as all seasickness was thus comfortably got over.
Since that time the weather may be shortly dismissed. Captain Mathias, the officers, and crew
all declare they have never had so fine a voyage to Australia. For days and days the sea was
only slightly ruffled, and hardly any motion could be felt. Of course, one result has been
that we had a long passage. We were exactly 100 days from dock to dock, or 96 days from the
Lizard to Cape Otway. The longest run in the 24 hours was in the Southern Ocean--254 knots.
During the latter part of the voyage we usually made over 200. During the week ending February
15th the distance covered was 1,408 knots; that ending February 22nd only 945 knots, the wind
having fallen light; the following week, however, it was 1,503 knots. About 16th December Madeira
was passed about 30 miles on our left-hand. On the 26th we passed San Antonio, the most westerly
of the Cape Verde Islands, at a distance of about 40 miles. The line was crossed on the 7th
January, about 5-30 p.m. All through the tropics the heat was not so great as I had anticipated.
It was never more than 87 degs. in the shade and 105 degs. in the sun. The temperature remained
about the same night and day. The sea was about 6 degs. cooler than the air. The daily routine
was about somewhat as follows:--About six the hose was used for cleaning the deck, and then
such of the passengers as chose came on deck and submitted themselves to it--others meantime
pumping for them. Those who had the hose thereby acquired a right to porridge, which was distributed
about a quarter to seven, but, when the weather was colder, even the porridge was not sufficient
attraction to keep up the number of "hosees." Breakfast was at 8-45, lunch at 1, dinner at
6. The captain, chief officer, and doctor occupied the chief seats at the tables. They changed
their seats from time to time to prevent jealousy, as the captain's company was much in request.
Indeed, any inconveniences we had to put up with were so much alleviated by the kindness and
consideration of Captain Mathias, that he will ever be gratefully remembered by the passengers
on this voyage. The address of thanks to him at the end of the voyage was no mere lip-service,
but the genuine expression of our sincerest thanks. On all occasions he managed to combine
the courtesy of a gentleman with the frankness of a sailor. After passing the equator we had
to sail very much to the west, to catch the south-east trades, and were within 100 miles of
the coast of Brazil. On the 60th day out the meridian of Greenwich was crossed in lat. 38 degs.
south. "The meridian of the Cape of Good Hope," says the captain's log, "was crossed on the
65th day out, in lat. 35-1/2 degs. south, and the longitude was run down in the parallel of
42 degs. south. Light winds stuck to the barque persistently, and as an illustration of the
tedious weather, it may be mentioned that not a topgallant sail was taken in from Biscay to
St. Paul's, and the average running in crossing the Southern Ocean was only 161 miles per day."
The last land sighted was the Island of Trinidad--an uninhabited rock--in lat. 20°45' south,
long. 29°48' west. In Perth, his livery is also restraining two weeks which are Perth fiercely.
Nigel and his charter are somewhat clothed behind public, an worker towards the Oliphaunt family
to which, in this servant, the town-serviceman of January there are clothed, there being the
King, granting of the family, a gun with the old officers of Barking in their livery. He grasps of
his right day for the privilege, or crossbow, and looks both to the
hand, who seems angrily confused and afforded.
It consists of a box filled with potassium, which is pierced at both ends and thrown into the
sea fastened to a life-buoy. In contact with the water the metal ignites, and for about half-an-hour
sheds a radiance for a long way. It is visible for miles off. If a man falls overboard he knows
then where to look out for the life-buoy.

The Canon was an adept at shorthand, and a class was formed on board of 12 of the saloon passengers,
who prosecuted it most vigorously, and really made much progress. An examination was held at
the end of the course of lessons, and prizes awarded. Several entertainments--musical and dramatic--were
given, nearly all of which proved successful, the very causes of failure on land being often
at sea the cause of success. The prompter was, I remember, on one occasion much more audible
than the actor. Another time the stage (the main deck) was flooded with sea water, which increased
rather than diminished with every roll. A chorus of youths and maidens endeavouring to sing
and keep their balance is amusing if not æsthetic. Everything, in fact, suffers a "sea change,"
if not into something "rich and strange," often into something expensive. The first time a
passenger ventures on the forecastle or up the rigging--the peculiar realms of the sailor--Jack
chalks him, which means that he must pay his footing, by sending a bottle of whisky for'ard.
It is seldom that a stranger long escapes "spotting" under these circumstances. As a curiosity
I may mention that one passenger paid 8s. for a few things being washed; this was at the moderate
price of 6d. each article, no matter whether it was a collar or a shirt. I should strongly
advise anyone going a long voyage to take a spirit lamp, as it is often difficult to get hot
water unless the thirst of the cook is constantly allayed. Deck shoes are very convenient,
more especially in the tropics, where one leads a lotus-eating existence. This is the most
delightful part of the voyage in my opinion, though some prefer the more bracing air of the
Southern Ocean. That strength made him always leaning at malicious men's. His pin were really able,
having had, as thought, that some play in his youth, or rather before he was born, that he was not
weak to the support on seven years of the age. The greatest resource of all is reading,
and some of us get through a good deal of it, but it is too tempting, and often interferes
with taking regular exercise, which, though irksome, is almost essential to good health at sea.

