Sami was tired. He went immediately to the wagon and climbed up from the back, and was able
to slip in under the big cover. There was a little room where he could lie down, and next him
came the four little children, one after another. Sami sat down and said his evening prayer.
Then he thought of his grandmother for a while, and what she would say if she could see him
thus in the wagon, and know that he would have to sleep all the time in his clothes, and if
only she could see how it looked in the wagon, so dirty and in disorder. She had been so neat
and orderly about everything and had kept him so clean from a baby up. But she had never spoken
to him about this, as about other things which he must avoid, and perhaps the people were quite
God-fearing; then he ought to stay with them. That would be as his grandmother wished. Then
he placed his bundle under his head, and went peacefully to sleep.

CHAPTER SIXTH

SAMI SINGS TOO

Sami had now been working five days for the tinker, and had passed his nights in the wagon.
He was well treated, for the man and his wife were pleased with him. Every day Sami dragged
along such a pile of old pans, pots and kettles, that they both wondered where he found them.
His grandmother had not charged him in vain to do everything he had to do as well as he possibly
could, because the dear Lord always saw what he was doing.

He never loitered on the way, and if a woman was going to send him away quickly and would not
listen to him, then he looked at her so beseechingly that she would find an old pan somewhere
and bring it out. From morning till night he ran with the greatest zeal, in order to get as
much work as possible for his master, and the praise he won every evening he enjoyed as much
as the savoury soup which followed.

Nevertheless Sami was not very well contented. Every evening as he sat in the wagon, he had
to think what his grandmother would say to all the dirt around him, and things pleased him
less and less. The woman did not do for the little children as his grandmother had done for
him. All four crawled around in the dirt and looked so that Sami didn't care to have anything
to do with them. If they cried they were knocked this way and that, and at night the woman
took up one after another from the ground, put it in the wagon, pulled the dirty grey blanket
over them and went away again.

The largest boy could talk quite well. He could have learned a little prayer long before this,
but the woman never taught him any.

Such a homesickness for his grandmother now arose in Sami's heart every evening that he had
to bury his head deep in his bundle, so that no one would hear him sob.

Often on his expeditions he would come near the wall, under the ash-trees, but he never went
over to it, for he had to work and did not dare sit idle and listen to the birds. But every
time he had looked longingly there and sent a whistle from a distance as greeting to the birds.

From the old house on the hillside, from which one could look down at the ash-trees and the
wall, he had brought a little kettle to the tinker, and was delighted at the thought of taking
it back again, for then he could look down there for a moment and perhaps hear the birds.

Two days had passed, and Sami hoped that on the following day the little kettle would be ready.
When he returned that evening to the fire with his last collection, the tinker was sitting
thoughtfully there, turning the little kettle round and round in his hands. His wife was looking
over his shoulders and both were scrutinizing the old kettle as if it were something unusual.

"It is as like the other as if it were its brother," said the wife. "You know how the man said
you must not spoil the pictures scratched on it, and on that account he gave you so much more
for it. Here are exactly the same figures on this, and the nose in front has just the same
curve as the other, which he would not have mended for fear it would be spoiled."

"I see it all, surely," said the man, "but I don't know what can be done about it. With the
other one I could say, it couldn't be mended any more, for it looked much worse than this,
and the people didn't know that the old stuff was worth anything, and I wouldn't have believed
it was myself."

"They won't know either. The boy brought the kettle from the old house up there. They only
know the ground they hoe, but not such a thing as this. Just say it can't be mended any more,
it is not good for anything, and give them something for the copper. They will be satisfied
enough. If we go back to Bern we will take it to the man, who will give eighty francs for it."

"That is true. We can do that," said the man, delighted; "perhaps they won't want anything
for the kettle when they know they can't use it any more. Come, Sami," he called to the boy,
who stood staring at them on the other side of the fire, and had heard and understood everything--"come
here, I want to tell you something."

Sami obeyed.

"Run quickly up to the old house, where you brought the little kettle from, and say it isn't
good for anything, that it can't be mended any more."

Sami, filled with horror, stared at the man. "Now hurry up and go along," said his wife, who
was still standing there; "you understand well enough what you have to do."

Sami continued looking at the man without moving, as if he really had not understood his words.

"What is the matter with you? Why don't you hurry along?" snarled the man to him.

"I can't do that. You are not God-fearing if you do such a thing as that," said Sami.

"What is it to you, what I do? Be quick and go along!" commanded the tinker, and his wife screamed
angrily:

"Do you think a little beggar like you is going to tell us what is God-fearing? We ought to
know much better than you! Will you do at once what you are told, or not?"

Sami did not stir.

"Will you go and do what I told you, or--"

The man raised his hand high up. Sami was pale with fright. Suddenly he turned around, ran
to the wagon, took his bundle out, and ran with all his might up the road, turned to the right
between the high walls and rushed on into the open field. Not a moment did he stop running,
until he had reached the ash-trees. The spot was like a place of refuge to him. Breathless,
he sat down on the wall. The twilight was already coming on and it was perfectly still all
around. No one had run after him as he feared. He was quite alone.

Now he began to think. It was all done so quickly that he had only now come to his senses.
Yes, it was right that he had run away, for what he had to do was something wrong, and he had
to come away because they were not God-fearing. It surely would seem right to his grandmother
that he had done this. But where should he go now? The people had all gone home from the fields,
perhaps were already asleep. Up in the ash-trees not one little bird made a single sound. They
were surely all in their nests and fast asleep. If the dear Lord kept them up there in the
trees safe from all harm, so that they could sleep so well, He would surely protect him too
under the trees. In this spot he always had the feeling that his grandmother was nearer to
him than anywhere else, and this gave him confidence. So he laid himself down under the tree
quite trustfully and immediately after he had ended his evening prayer, his eyes closed, for
the brook was murmuring such a beautiful slumber song under the ash-trees there.

Golden sunshine was streaming in Sami's eyes when he awoke. Above him all the birds were warbling
their morning song up into the blue sky. It sounded like pure thanksgiving and delight. It
awakened in Sami's heart the same tones, and he had to sing praise and thanksgiving, for the
dear Lord had protected him too so well through the night and let His golden sun shine on him
again. With a clear voice Sami joined in the glad chorus and sang a hymn of praise and thanksgiving,
the only one he knew:

"Last night Summer breezes blew:-- All the flowers awake anew,"

And when he had come to the end, he sang like the merry finch with all his might:

"Trust! Trust! Trust! Trust! Only trust the dear Lord!"

The song had awakened in Sami new assurance that he would find a piece of bread and some worthy
work. This he wanted to look for now, for his grandmother had not impressed it upon him in
vain from his earliest days, that in the morning after praying one should immediately go to
work. So Sami started off.

He did not go down to the Lake this day, lest he should come near the tinker. With his bundle
under his arm he wandered up the gradually rising field road. Where this crossed the narrow
street, leading over to Clarens, Sami met a child's carriage which a girl was pushing in front
of her. She wore a spotless white cap and a white apron. Over the carriage, too, was spread
a snow-white cover, and out from under it peeped a little head with bright golden hair and
a little white hat on it.

This unusual neatness and the smart appearance of the carriage attracted Sami very much and
he followed along the same way. On the white carriage robe was worked a wreath of blue silk,
but not of flowers. It was of strange figures. The shining blue silk on the white cloth looked
so beautiful that Sami could not keep his eyes away from it. Suddenly it became plain to him
that the strange figures were letters, but he had never seen any like them in his life. Their
appearance captivated him more and more. Then he began to try to see if he couldn't spell them
out and perhaps read the words. He tried as hard as he could, but it was difficult. Sami kept
beginning over again from the first. Finally he made out all the words. It was a proverb which
read thus:

"So let the little angels sing: This child is safe beneath our wing."

This proverb reminded him so much of his grandmother; he didn't know why, but it seemed to
him as if she had prayed exactly like this over his bed. The tears came to his eyes, and yet
it seemed so good, just as if he had found his home again. The girl now turned suddenly to
the left from the road, and went through the high iron gate which stood open, and led into
a wide courtyard. Great, ancient plane-trees stood inside and cast their broad shade over the
sunny courtyard. A large flower garden surrounded the high stone house, which looked forth
from behind the trees.

Sami followed the carriage into the courtyard. It stopped under the trees.

"What do you want here? That is the way out," said the girl impatiently to Sami, pointing so
plainly to the gate that Sami would have understood the meaning of her words even if her language
had been foreign. But it was surely German, and he had understood it all very well, although
he could not speak like that himself. His grandmother had told him that there were people who
spoke just like the reading in the books.

Sami did not reply, and the girl did not wait for him. She snatched the child quickly out of
the carriage, took the beautiful robe over her arm, and went into the house.

Meanwhile a little girl had come out of the house and was standing at some distance gazing
at Sami with two big eyes. Now she came quickly forward, jumped nimbly into the empty carriage,
and said:

"Come, give me a ride!"

"Where?" asked Sami.

"Out there along the road, and far, far away!"

Sami obeyed immediately. For a long while he trotted along without stopping. The little girl
seemed to enjoy the ride. She looked so eagerly around with her bright eyes on every side,
as if she couldn't see enough. Then they came to a meadow thick with flowers.

"Hold still! Hold still!" cried the little one suddenly, and sprang with a big jump out of
the low carriage.

"Now we must have all the flowers, every single one! Come!"

And the little girl was already in the midst of the grass, stamping bravely forward. But Sami
said quite prudently:

"You mustn't go so into the grass. It is forbidden. But see, if we go around outside and take
all the flowers you can reach, there will be a big bunch."

The little one came out, for she knew that she ought not to do what was forbidden. Then the
flowers were gathered according to Sami's advice, but the little companion soon had enough
of such exertion, seated herself on the ground and said:

"Come, sit down by me. But you must not speak French to me. I have to learn that with Madame
Laurent, but I would rather speak German, and you must do so too."

"I don't speak French, I don't know how," replied Sami; "but I can't speak like you either."

"Where do you come from then, if you don't speak German and don't speak French?" the little
one wanted to know.

Sami thought for a moment, then he said:

"First I came from Chailly and then from Zweisimmen."

"No, no," interrupted the little one warmly. "People are never from two places, only from one.
I am from Berlin, in Germany, you see. Then Papa bought an estate and now we are living on
Lake Geneva. What is your name?"

Sami told her.

"And my name is Betti. Why did you come into the courtyard when Tina wanted to send you out?"

Sami had to think for a while, then he said:

"Because those words were on the robe, I knew they were God-fearing people where it belonged,
and my grandmother told me I must stay with such people and never go away, for I should learn
nothing but good from them."

"Must you stay with us now, and never go away again?" asked little Betti eagerly.

"Yes, I think so," answered Sami. "Perhaps I can weed the garden."

"That is right," said Betti, delighted. "You see, Tina will not take me in the carriage; she
says I am too big. Will you take me every day in the carriage to the meadow for ever so many
hours?"

"Yes, indeed, I will do that gladly," promised Sami, "and you shall have all the flowers. Then
I will take you besides to the trees where all the birds sing 'Only trust the dear Lord!' and
where the finch cries so loud above them all: 'Trust! Trust! Trust! Trust!' Have you heard
him too?"

At this description little Betti's eyes grew bigger and brighter with expectation.

"Come now, let's go right away to the birds," she exclaimed, jumped up and ran in haste to
the carriage.

Sami followed.

At this moment Tina, with a very red face, came running up from below. Her looks did not portend
anything good.

"So I have found you at last," she cried angrily from a distance. "Everybody is running around
looking for you--your three brothers, the servants, the coachman--everybody! I have run myself
half dead for you. Sit down in the carriage, you naughty little thing. The little tramp can
go where he likes. No, he must come back again; his bundle is lying in the courtyard. So he
can pull the carriage if he has to come with us."

Little Betti did not seem very much frightened by this lively speech. She climbed quickly into
the carriage and said gaily: "Go ahead, Sami!"

He obeyed quite crushed, for now he could only return for his bundle; then he would have to
go away again, and he had so firmly believed this was the place where he was to stay according
to his grandmother's advice, and it had pleased him so much. He had started out in the morning
full of trust from the song of the birds, and now he was returning very down-hearted the same way.

When the three on their way home came to the courtyard, a tall man was standing there, looking
out up and down the road; a lady was coming out of the house and going in again very restlessly,
and three young boys were running first one way and then another, screaming at the top of their
voices:

"She is nowhere to be seen! She is nowhere to be seen!"

But there she was, drawn by Sami, just coming into the courtyard. Before any question, reproach
or accusation could be heard in regard to the unlawful expedition, Betti had run straight to
her Papa, and in his delight that she was safely there again, he had taken her in his arms,
and with the greatest eagerness she said:

"He will take me every day in the carriage, Papa, the whole day long, if I like, and bring
all the flowers to me, because I must not go in the high grass. And he must always stay with
us, because his grandmother knew about it, and, Papa, think, he knows birds that sing a whole
song, and the finch sings above them all: 'Trust! Trust!' We were going right to see them when
Tina came and we had to come home. But now we can go, can't we, Papa, right away? Sami will
take me there again; he isn't tired yet. Only say yes, Papa."

"Your story is wonderful," said her Papa, laughing. "Where is the little coachman whom you
have engaged and who, according to his grandmother's advice, must stay with us?"

Meanwhile the three brothers had come running along and, together with their mother, stood
near their father under the gateway, so that Sami, who with his bundle on his arm was trying
to go out, could not pass through, and had betaken himself very quietly to a corner of the
courtyard. The master of the house now placed his daughter on the ground and looked towards
the boy. But he was already surrounded, for during their little sister's story the three brothers
had made their examination and calculation and then had turned to the boy. Nine-year-old Edward
had decided with satisfaction that Sami was the one he had for a long time needed, for since
the donkey, which had been given to him at Christmas, had overturned him and his little cart
three times running, his father had forbidden him to drive out again without the coachman,
Johann. But when Edward wanted to go out driving Johann was always occupied some other way,
and when Johann announced that he could go it didn't suit Edward at all. Now Sami was found,
an attendant whom he could call whenever he wanted him.

Eleven-year-old Karl was an enthusiastic archer, but to have to be always running after his
arrows after they were shot and to hunt for them was very irksome to him. Suddenly someone
was found whom he could make use of to hunt for his arrows.

Fourteen-year-old Arthur had permission to sail in his boat on the lake, but he needed some
one to steer for him. Now here was a satisfactory boy, on the spot, whom he could teach, and
have to steer for him. So it happened that there was a great uproar when their Papa drew near
the group in the corner of the courtyard.

"Keep him, Papa, I have enough work for him to do!" cried Arthur, while Karl's voice was heard
above his screaming:

"Let him stay here, Papa, please, I need him so much!"

But Edward's piercing voice was heard above the other two:

"Papa, he can drive the donkey, he must stay with us, then Johann won't need to come with me
any longer!"

And in the midst of all sounded Betti's high little voice, untiringly:

"Can we go to see the birds now, Papa? Can we go now to the birds?"

Then Papa turned away from the noisy group and said, laughing:

"My dear wife, what do you say to this whole story?"

The lady addressed had until now listened silently and watched Sami, whose eyes grew brighter
and brighter the louder the children begged for him to stay. She looked at him kindly and said
first of all she would like to know from him where he came from, and what the story which Betti
told about his grandmother meant; he ought to tell where he had been living hitherto, who his
parents were and who his grandmother was.

