The functions of the right hand fingers are twofold. At times they act in conjunction with
each other and at others, in opposition. Some writers say that the two outer fingers are the
holding fingers, and others contend that the two inner fingers are alone concerned in this
service. This difference of opinion is to me just as absurd as the arguments anent the wrist
and elbow of the old violists. As a matter of fact both theories are right. The difference
being that, in the question of holding, the action of the outer fingers is passive while that
of the inner fingers is active. To go more into detail, in soft passages the bow simply rests
supported by the three points of contact with the thumb, first and fourth fingers. The inner
fingers then taking little or no part in the matter. This action of the outer fingers I say
is passive as the bow is not actually held but simply rests on the thumb, the two outer fingers
merely preventing it from falling to one side or the other. Occasionally these two fingers
will act in concert or opposition, according to the requirements of expression and phrasing.
When playing loudly it becomes necessary that a more decided purchase of the bow be maintained,
especially in rapid forte passages. Then the inner fingers come into play and hold the bow
firmly against the thumb. The two outer fingers then are solely concerned with regulating the
pressure and preserving the elasticity of the stroke, which is lost in a firm grip only.

These slight differences of action in my opinion can not be practised. They are the outcome
of years of grind. They come, and when they are firmly established we can analyse them. To
gain the mastery of the bow one must begin at the bottom and be content to work gradually up
to the topmost rung (or thereabouts!) of the ladder. I often meet with amateur violinists who
try to begin at the top. The consequences of this proceeding are distinctly more certain, for
when starting at the bottom it is not always assured that much upward progress will be made,
whereas, by the opposite method the descent will be certain and considerable!

Nothing is more hopeless than the attempts some amateur violinists make to acquire certain
styles of bowing simply by mentally mastering the various actions by which it is produced.

Sautillé, one of the easiest forms of bowing, suffers most from this sort of thing. It is no
uncommon thing to see an amateur diligently practising the action of lifting the bow off the
string and putting it on again after each note, thinking that if he keeps on long enough--say
ten minutes a day for a fortnight--that he will acquire a perfect mastery of this much desired
effect. To practice Sautillé in this manner is the way not to gain it. It is the outcome of
the perfect action of the entire arm. When that is attained you will have the Sautillé. Then,
and then only, will a little specialized practice help to perfect the movement. Some pupils
I have had who possessed the Sautillé by nature and never understood the difficulty experienced
by others who had to wait for it. The best way to acquire this as the result of a perfect bow
arm is to practise the following:

Try it first on the D string. Use whole bows, freely and firmly, for the semibreves, slightly
less for the minims, the middle third for the crotchets, and an inch or two for the quavers,
reducing it still further as the pace increases. The pupil must abandon all thought of making
the bow jump, also he must avoid pressing it on the string. The whole action must be free and
bold and the tempo for this exercise should be not slower than M.M. crotchet = 100. At first
it will be found impossible to get as far as the semiquavers without some confusion. At the
first sign of irregularity the pupil should stop, pause a moment, and then recommence with
the semibreves. It should be seen that the bow is not gripped too tightly through over-anxiety
or excitement. It will need patience on the part of teacher and pupil alike, but both will
be gratified when suddenly the bow is seen to jump naturally and the Sautillé is won.

There is one phrase in connexion with bowing that irritates me greatly, and that is a "loose
wrist." As a technicality it is of course all right, but the insisting on the literal application
of the term has been a stumbling block to many violinists. Ladies have come to me saying, "Do
you think my wrist loose enough for me to play the violin?" Accompanying the query with a violent
flapping of the hand that would almost make one think they were desirous of emulating the lobster's
ability to cast away a claw at will. Upon making such persons hold a pencil or penholder (I
dared not let them handle a bow!) it was found that the wrist became stiff and unyielding.
The wrist that was loose when all the muscles were flaccid became rigid when a few were exerted
sufficiently to hold a light object.

Thus it will be seen that the apparent looseness of a violinist's wrist is not really such,
but is the dominating of one set of muscles by another. Many teachers say that one should have
the thumb tight and the wrist loose. A manifest absurdity when one considers that a most important
thumb muscle extends right across the wrist. It should therefore be well understood that what
is implied by the technical expression "loose," is, in reality, "control." If it were really
looseness, it would present no difficulty to any one not afflicted with an ossification. It
is to gain this extreme independence of each set of muscles that long years are taken up in
monotonous exercises. The arm of a violinist has to be trained in a manner directly opposite
to that of an athlete. In the latter we find an exemplification of the saying, "Unity is Strength."
All the muscles act in perfect accord to the same end. With the violinist, on the other hand,
there is a constant opposition of forces; the larger muscles are kept down and many smaller
muscles are developed that have lost all use in the arm of an athlete.

Concerning the fingers of the right hand I advocate holding them close together--not cramped,
but just lightly touching. Some players recommend the parting of the first finger from the
others as giving greater leverage over the bow. It certainly has that effect, but I advise
it to be used very sparingly and in fortissimo passages only. It is a license one may admit
in an artist, but to my pupils who are in the earlier stages I entirely forbid it. I should
only permit it in the case of a thumb so short as not to reach far enough into the centre of
the hand to give the right amount of control. If a pupil is taught from the first to use this
extreme leverage he is likely to develop a rough tone. When he has attained the mastery of
the bow he can use his own judgment as to the occasional employment of this reserve force.
These remarks I apply also to violoncello bowing. Unless the pupil's hand be weak the first
finger should be held back until the whole art of bowing is mastered. All these observations
are addressed to soloists: in orchestral work such retention of force is unnecessary. I notice
that where players use up all the available leverage of the hand from the outset, they are
compelled to employ the weight of the arm to reinforce it for special effects. Another reason--and
an important one--for keeping the fingers together, is that of appearance. Nothing is more
unsightly than to see the fingers of the right hand spread out claw fashion, and I quite concur
with Sympson that no posture or movement should offend the eye.

Returning for a moment to the anxiety of the average fiddler to acquire a good Sautillé, it
seems to me absurd that such importance should be attached to it when, in reality, the test
of a violinist's ability lies in his command of "slow bows." Too much attention cannot be paid
to the study of sustained bowing which can be practised in a variety of ways. Firstly, long
drawn semibreves--at one of the Continental Conservatoires they make the violin students play
scales of two octaves, taking one bow to each note, the same to last two minutes, thus the
whole scale, ascending and descending, occupies one hour! The command obtained by this sort
of work is enormous. To vary the monotony of semibreves the student can then play scales in
semiquavers, making one bow last out ten, twelve, or more scales in two octaves. Another useful
variety of the same thing is to practise some succession of notes in which the bow requires
to continually pass from one string to the next, such as:

These should be played as many times as possible in one bow. Here the command of the bow on
the string is not only greatly increased, but the wrist is well exercised at the same time.

The same thing should be carried out on the third and fourth strings thus:

It is a good thing to make the pupil (if endowed with sufficient intelligence) work out a series
of such mechanical exercises, he will this way take a much greater interest in the work, a
point to which I attach great importance, for I consider physical exercises, however conscientiously
carried out, do little good if the mind is fatigued or absent.

Of scarcely less importance is the study of rapid whole bows. The pupil should be made to draw
the bow from end to end as rapidly as he can without losing control of the bow, and it must
be seen that the pressure does not vary in any way. The bow should be set on firmly at the
heel, held there for, say, a crotchet, then drawn, without any swelling of the tone in the
centre of the bow, smartly to the point where it must stop suddenly without any change of pressure.
This is not found an easy thing to accomplish, but "perseverance overcometh all difficulties."
The teacher must not be satisfied until the pupil can draw a rapid up or down stroke stopping
so suddenly and firmly as to make the note sound as though cut off. In practising this, the
bow should remain firmly on the string between each stroke; whether the bow travels or is stationary
the pressure must be unchanged.

Staccato bowing is a much misunderstood branch of technics; I do not mean the detached staccato,
but that form in which a series of notes is played in one bow yet have a detached effect on
the ear. It is a pity that one word should have to stand for two totally different forms of
bowing. I have heard and read many varying descriptions of the "bowed-staccato" and its method
of production. Of course it is highly probable that some players attain it differently to others,
but as I see no anatomical reason for such differences of action it seems a waste of energy
to mechanically produce what already exists in nature. I have no doubt a great deal of this
gratuitous variegation of staccato technique comes from teachers not fully understanding their
own movements, or perceiving a portion of the action required and laying all stress on that
one feature alone. But unless one goes to the prime source of the matter a perfect staccato
cannot be attained.

