CORRESPONDENCE & CONVERSATIONS OF ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE

WITH NASSAU WILLIAM SENIOR

FROM 1834 TO 1859

EDITED BY

M.C.M. SIMPSON

IN TWO VOLUMES VOLUME II

LONDON: HENRY S. KING & Co., 65 CORNHILL 1872

       *   *   *   *   *

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME

Journal 1851-2.

The army master of France Comparison with the 18th Brumaire Aggressive acts of the President
Coup d'État planned for March 1852 Socialism leads to despotism War necessary to maintain Louis
Napoleon State prisoners on December 2 Louis Napoleon's devotion to the Pope Latent Bonapartism
of the French President's reception at Notre Dame Frank hypocrites Mischievous public men Extradition
of Kossuth January 29, 1849 Stunner's account of it contradicted The Second Napoleon a copy
of the First Relies on Russian support Compulsory voting Life of a cavalry officer Victims
of the Coup d'État

Letters in 1852-3.

Effect of the Orleans confiscation on the English Firmness of Prussia Mr. Greg's writings Communication
from Schwartzenberg New Reform Bill Democracy or aristocracy Reform Bill not wanted Twenty-five
thousand men at Cherbourg Easier to understand Lord Derby than Lord John Preparations at Cherbourg
a delusion Conversation with King Leopold No symptoms of aristocratic re-action in England
England's democratic tendencies Idleness of young aristocrats Death of Protection Revolutions
leading to masquerades Tory reforms Imperial marriage New Reform Bill a blunder

Journal in 1853.

Prosperity in Paris Dangers incurred by overbuilding Discharged workmen effect Revolutions
Probable monetary panic Empire can be firmly established only by a successful war Agents undermining
the Empire Violence and corruption of the Government Growing unpopularity of Louis Napoleon
Consequences of his death He probably will try the resource of war Conquest would establish
his power War must produce humiliation or slavery to France Corruption is destroying the army
and navy Emperor cannot tolerate opposition Will try a plebiscite

Letters in 1853.

Blackstone a mere lawyer Feudal institutions in France and England Gentleman and Gentilhomme
Life of seclusion Interference of police with letters Mrs. Crete's conversations at St. Cyr
Great writers of the eighteenth century Political torpor unfavourable to intellectual product
English not fond of generalities Curious archives at Tours Frightful picture they present Sufficient
to account for the Revolution of 1789 La Marck's memoir of Mirabeau Court would not trust Mirabeau
The elder Mirabeau influenced by Revolution Revolution could not have been averted Works of
David Hume Effect of intolerance of the press Honesty and shortsightedness of La Fayette Laws
must be originated by philosophers Carried into effect by practical men Napoleon carried out
laws Too fond of centralisation Country life destroyed by it Royer Collard Danton Madame Tallien
Tocqueville independent of society Studious and regular life Influence of writers as compared
with active politicians

Journal in 1854.

Criticism of the Journals The speakers generally recognised Aware that they were being reported
The Legitimists Necessity of Crimean War Probable management of it English view of the Fusion
Bourbons desire Constitutional Government Socialists would prefer the Empire They rejoiced
in the Orleans confiscation Empire might be secured by liberal institutions Policy of G. English
new Reform Bill Dangers of universal suffrage Baraguay d'Hilliers and Randon Lent in the Provinces
Chenonceaux Montalembert's speech Cinq Mars Appearance of prosperity Petite culture in Touraine
Tyranny more mischievous than civil war Centralisation of Louis XIV. a means of taxation Under
Louis Napoleon, centralisation more powerful than ever Power of the Préfet Courts of Law tools
of the Executive Préfet's candidate must succeed Empire could not sustain a defeat Loss of
aristocracy in France Napoleon estranged Legitimists by the murder of the Duc d'Enghien Louis
Philippe attempted to govern through the middle classes Temporary restoration of aristocratic
power under the republic Overthrown by the second Empire Legitimists inferior to their ancestors
Dulness of modern society and books Effects of competition

Letters in 1854-5.

Tocqueville attends the Academy Proposed visit to Germany Return to France English adulation
of Louis Napoleon Mismanagement of Crimean War Continental disparagement of England Necessity
for a conscription in England Disastrous effects of the war for English aristocracy Peace premature

Journals in 1855.

Effects of the Emperor going to the Crimea Prince Napoleon Discontent in England Disparagement
of England Austria alone profited by Crimean War Despotism of Louis Napoleon consolidated by
it Centralisation in Algeria Criticism of Mr. Senior's Article Places Louis Napoleon too high
English alliances not dependent on the Empire Louis Napoleon will covet the Rhine Childish
admiration of Emperor by British public Real friends of England are the friends of her institutions

Extracts from Mr. Senior's Article.

Description of political parties Imperialists Legitimists Orleanists Orleanist-Fusionists form
the bulk of the Royalists Legitimists unfit for public life Republican party not to be despised
Parliamentarians Desire only free institutions No public opinion expressed in the Provinces
Power of Centralisation Increased under Louis Philippe Power of the Préfet Foreign policy of
Louis Napoleon Of former French Sovereigns Invasion of Rome prepared in 1847 Eastern question,
a legacy from Louis Philippe Fault as an administrator Mismanagement of the war His Ministers
mere clerks Free institutions may secure his throne English Alliance Russian influence Revolutions
followed by despotism Lessons taught by history

Letters in 1855-6.

Tocqueville burns his letter Conversation of May 28 Amusing letters from the Army Enjoyment
of home Fall of Sebastopol Cost of the war Russia dangerous to Europe How to restrain her Progress
in the East No public excitement in France

Journal in 1856.

The 'Ancien Régime' Master of Paris, Master of France Opposition to Suez Canal Mischievous
effect of English Opposition Expenditure under the Empire Effect of Opposition to the Suez
Canal Tripartite Treaty 'Friponnerie' of the Government Tripartite Treaty Suez Canal French
floating batteries Fortifications of Malta Emperor's orders to Canrobert A campaign must be
managed on the spot

Letters in 1856-7.

The 'Ancien Régime' King 'Bomba' American Rebellion Lord Aberdeen on the Crimean War Eccentricities
of English public men Remedy for rise in house-rent The rise produced by excessive public works
Dulness of Paris Mr. Senior's Journal in Egypt Chinese war

Journal in 1857.

Flatness of society in Paris Dexterity of Louis Napoleon Is maintained by the fear of the 'Rouges'
Due de Nemours' letter Tocqueville disapproves of contingent promises Empire rests on the army
and the people Slavery of the Press Public speaking in France English and French speakers American
speakers Length of speeches French public men Lamartine Falloux Foreign French Narvaez and
Kossuth French conversers Montalembert Monsieur, Madame, and Mademoiselle Tu and vous Feeling
respecting heretics Prejudices of the Ancien Régime French poetry Fashion in Literature Montalembert's
changes of opinion Increasing population of Paris Its dangerous character No right to relief
Sudden influx of workmen Soldiers likely to side with the people Lamoricière's heroism June
1848 French army National characteristics Change in French only apparent Martin's History of
France He is a centraliser and an absolutist Secret police

Letters in 1857-8.

Reception in England Indian Mutiny Financial question Unpopularity of England Law of Public Safety

Journal in 1858.

Talleyrand as a writer English ignorance of French affairs Change of feeling respecting Louis
Napoleon 'Loi de sureté publique' Manner in which it has been carried out Deportation a slow
death Influence of 'hommes de lettres' French army Russian army French navy Napoleon indifferent
to the navy Mr. Senior's Athens journal Otho and Louis Napoleon Qualities which obtain influence
Character of Louis Napoleon Tocqueville's comments on the above conversation Tocqueville on
Novels Intellectual and moral inferiority of the age Education of French women 'Messe d'une
heure' Influence of Madame Récamier Duchesse de Dino

Letters in 1858-9.

Failing health Mr. Senior's visit to Sir John Boileau Promise of Lord Stanley Character of
Guizot Spectacle afforded by English Politics Tocqueville at Cannes Louis Napoleon's loss of
popularity Death of Alexis de Tocqueville Grief it occasioned in England

Journal at Tocqueville in 1861.

Madame de Tocqueville house at Valognes Chateau de Tocqueville Beaumont on Italian affairs
Piedmontese unpopular with the lower classes Popular with the higher classes in Naples Influence
of Orsini Subjection of the French Effect of Universal Suffrage Causes which may overthrow
Louis Napoleon Popularity of a war with England Condition of the Roman people Different sorts
of courage in different nations Destructiveness of war not found out at first Effect of service
on conscript Expenditure of Louis Napoleon Forebodings of the Empress Prince Napoleon Ampère
on Roman affairs Inquisition Infidelity Mortara affair Torpor of Roman Government Interference
with marriages Ampère expects Piedmont to take possession of Rome Does not think that Naples
will submit to Piedmont Wishes of Naples only negative Ampère's reading Execution of three
generations Familiarity with death in 1793 Sanson Public executioners The 'Chambre noire' Violation
of correspondence Toleration of Ennui Prisoners of State M. and Madame de La Fayette Mirabeau
and La Fayette Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette Evils of Democratic despotism Ignorance and
indolence of 'La jeune France' Algeria a God-send Family life in France Moral effect of Primogeniture
Descent of Title Shipwreck off Gatteville Ampère reads 'Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme' The modern
Nouveau Riche Society under the Republic Madame Récamier Chateaubriand and Madame Mohl Ballanche
Extensiveness of French literature French and English poetry The 'Misanthrope' Tocqueville's
political career Under Louis Philippe in 1835 Independence In 1839 and 1840 Opposition to Guizot
Inaction of Louis Philippe Tocqueville would not submit to be a minister without power Mistaken
independence of party Could not court popularity Reform came too late Faults in the Constitution
Defence of the Constitution Tocqueville wished for a double election of the President Centralisation
useful to a usurper England in the American War Defence of England Politics of a farmer Wages
in Normandy Evils of Universal Suffrage Influence of the clergy Prince Napoleon Constitutional
monarchy preferable to a republic Republic preferable to a despotism Probable gross faults
of a republic Evils of socialist opinions Mischievous effects of strikes Mistaken tolerance
of them in England Tocqueville's tomb

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX.

Mr. Senior's report of M. de Montalembert's speech in 1854

TOCQUEVILLE DURING THE EMPIRE

FROM DECEMBER 23, 1851 TO APRIL 20, 1858.

CONVERSATIONS

PARIS, 1851-2.

[The coup d'état took place on the 2nd, and Mr. Senior reached Paris on the 21st of December.--ED.]

Paris, December 23, 1851.--I dined with Mrs. Grot and drank tea with the Tocquevilles.

[1]'This,' said Tocqueville, 'is a new phase in our history. Every previous revolution has
been made by a political party. This is the first time that the army has seized France, bound
and gagged her, and laid her at the feet of its ruler.'

'Was not the 18th fructidor,' I said, 'almost a parallel case? Then, as now, there was a quarrel
between the executive and the legislature. The Directory, like Louis Napoleon, dismissed the
ministers, in whom the legislature had confidence, and appointed its own tools in their places,
denounced the legislature to the country, and flattered and corrupted the army. The legislature
tried the usual tactics of parliamentary opposition, censured the Government, and refused the
supplies. The Directory prepared a coup d'état. The legislature tried to obtain a military
force, and failed; they planned an impeachment of the Directory, and found the existing law
insufficient. They brought forward a new law defining the responsibility of the executive,
and the night after they had begun to discuss it, their halls were occupied by a military force,
and the members of the opposition were seized in the room in which they had met to denounce
the treason of the Directory.'

'So far,' he answered, 'the two events resemble one another. Each was a military attack on
the legislature by the executive. But the Directors were the representatives of a party. The
Councils and the greater part of the aristocracy, and the bourgeoisie, were Bonapartists; the
lower orders were Republican, the army was merely an instrument; it conquered, not for itself,
but for the Republican party.

'The 18th brumaire was nearer to this--for that ended, as this has begun, in a military tyranny.
But the 18th brumaire was almost as much a civil as a military revolution. A majority in the
Councils was with Bonaparte. Louis Napoleon had not a real friend in the Assembly. All the
educated classes supported the 18th brumaire; all the educated classes repudiate the 2nd of
December. Bonaparte's Consular Chair was sustained by all the élite of France. This man cannot
obtain a decent supporter. Montalembert, Baroche, and Fould--an Ultramontane, a country lawyer,
and a Jewish banker--are his most respectable associates. For a real parallel you must go back
1,800 years.'

I said that some persons, for whose judgment I had the highest respect, seemed to treat it
as a contest between two conspirators, the Assembly and the President, and to think the difference
between his conduct and theirs to be that he struck first.

'This,' said Tocqueville, 'I utterly deny. He, indeed, began to conspire from November 10,
1848. His direct instructions to Oudinot, and his letter to Ney, only a few months after his
election, showed his determination not to submit to Parliamentary Government. Then followed
his dismissal of Ministry after Ministry, until he had degraded the·office to a clerkship.
Then came the semi-regal progress, then the reviews of Satory, the encouragement of treasonable
cries, the selection for all the high appointments in the army of Paris of men whose infamous
characters fitted them to be tools. Then he publicly insulted the Assembly at Dijon, and at
last, in October, we knew that his plans were laid. It was then only that we began to think
what were our means of defence, but that was no more a conspiracy than it is a conspiracy in
travellers to look for their pistols when they see a band of robbers advancing.

'M. Baze's proposition was absurd only because it was impracticable. It was a precaution against
immediate danger, but if it had been voted, it could not have been executed. The army had already
been so corrupted, that it would have disregarded the orders of the Assembly. I have often
talked over our situation with Lamoricière and my other military friends. We saw what was coming
as clearly as we now look back to it; but we had no means of preventing it.'

'But was not your intended law of responsibility,' I said, 'an attack on your part?'

'That law,' he said, 'was not ours. It was sent up to us by the Conseil d'État which had been
two years and a half employed on it, and ought to have sent it to us much sooner. We thought
it dangerous--that is to say, we thought that, though quite right in itself, it would irritate
the President, and that in our defenceless state it was unwise to do so. The bureau, therefore,
to which it was referred refused to declare it urgent: a proof that it would not have passed
with the clauses which, though reasonable, the President thought fit to disapprove. Our conspiracy
was that of the lambs against the wolf.

'Though I have said,' he continued, 'that he has been conspiring ever since his election, I
do not believe that he intended to strike so soon. His plan was to wait till next March when
the fears of May 1852 would be most intense. Two circumstances forced him on more rapidly.
One was the candidature of the Prince de Joinville. He thought him the only dangerous competitor.
The other was an agitation set on foot by the Legitimists in the Conseils généraux for the
repeal of the law of May 31. We cannot bear to be deprived of the power of speaking or of writing.
We cannot bear that the fate of France should depend on the selfishness, or the vanity, or
the fears, or the caprice of one man, a foreigner by race and by education, and of a set of
military ruffians and of infamous civilians, fit only to have formed the staff and the privy
council of Catiline. We cannot bear that the people which carried the torch of Liberty through
Europe should now be employed in quenching all its lights. But these are not the feelings of
the multitude. Their insane fear of Socialism throws them headlong into the arms of despotism.
As in Prussia, as in Hungary, as in Austria, as in Italy, so in France, the democrats have
served the cause of the absolutists. May 1852 was a spectre constantly swelling as it drew
nearer. But now that the weakness of the Red party has been proved, now that 10,000 of those
who are supposed to be its most active members are to be sent to die of hunger and marsh fever
in Cayenne, the people will regret the price at which their visionary enemy has been put down.
If Louis Napoleon refuses them, he will be execrated as a tyrant. If he grants them, they must
destroy him. We always criticise our rulers severely, often unjustly. It is impossible that
so rash and wrong-headed a man surrounded, and always wishing to be surrounded, by men whose
infamous character is their recommendation to him, should not commit blunders and follies without
end. They will be exposed, perhaps exaggerated by the press, and from the tribune. As soon
as he is discredited the army will turn against him. It sympathises with the people from which
it has recently been separated and to which it is soon to return. It will never support an
unpopular despot. I have no fears therefore for the ultimate destinies of my country. It seems
to me that the Revolution of the 2nd of December is more dangerous to the rest of Europe than
it is to us. That it ought to alarm England much more than France. We shall get rid of Louis
Napoleon in a few years, perhaps in a few months, but there is no saying how much mischief
he may do in those years, or even in those months, to his neighbours.'

'Surely,' said Madame de Tocqueville, 'he will wish to remain at peace with England.'

'I am not sure at all of that,' said Tocqueville. 'He cannot sit down a mere quiet administrator.
He must do something to distract public attention; he must give us a substitute for the political
excitement which has amused us during the last forty years. Great social improvements are uncertain,
difficult, and slow; but glory may be obtained in a week. A war with England, at its beginning,
is always popular. How many thousand volunteers would he have for a "pointe" on London?

