"That's what I say," cried Tommy; "that's what I call sense! Let's stock that whaleboat and
be off."

"And what will Captain Wicks be thinking of the whaleboat?" asked the Irishman.

"I don't think of it at all," said Wicks. "We've a smart-looking brig under foot; that's all
the whaleboat I want."

"Excuse me!" cried Tommy. "That's childish talk. You've got a brig, to be sure, and what use
is she? You daren't go anywhere in her. What port are you to sail for?"

"For the port of Davy Jones's Locker, my son," replied the captain. "This brig's going to be
lost at sea. I'll tell you where, too, and that's about forty miles to windward of Kauai. We're
going to stay by her till she's down; and once the masts are under, she's the Flying Scud no
more, and we never heard of such a brig; and it's the crew of the schooner Currency Lass that
comes ashore in the boat, and takes the first chance to Sydney."

"Captain, dear, that's the first Christian word I've heard of ut!" cried Mac. "And now, just
let me arrum be, jewel, and get the brig outside."

"I'm as anxious as yourself, Mac," returned Wicks; "but there's not wind enough to swear by.
So let's see your arm, and no more talk."

The arm was set and splinted; the body of Brown fetched from the forepeak, where it lay stiff
and cold, and committed to the waters of the lagoon; and the washing of the cabin rudely finished.
All these were done ere mid-day; and it was past three when the first cat's-paw ruffled the
lagoon, and the wind came in a dry squall, which presently sobered to a steady breeze.

The interval was passed by all in feverish impatience, and by one of the party in secret and
extreme concern of mind. Captain Wicks was a fore-and-aft sailor; he could take a schooner
through a Scotch reel, felt her mouth and divined her temper like a rider with a horse; she,
on her side, recognising her master and following his wishes like a dog. But by a not very
unusual train of circumstance, the man's dexterity was partial and circumscribed. On a schooner's
deck he was Rembrandt, or (at the least) Mr. Whistler; on board a brig he was Pierre Grassou.
Again and again in the course of the morning he had reasoned out his policy and rehearsed his
orders; and ever with the same depression and weariness. It was guess-work; it was chance;
the ship might behave as he expected, and might not; suppose she failed him, he stood there
helpless, beggared of all the proved resources of experience. Had not all hands been so weary,
had he not feared to communicate his own misgivings, he could have towed her out. But these
reasons sufficed, and the most he could do was to take all possible precautions. Accordingly
he had Carthew aft, explained what was to be done with anxious patience, and visited along
with him the various sheets and braces.

"I hope I'll remember," said Carthew. "It seems awfully muddled."

"It's the rottenest kind of rig," the captain admitted: "all blooming pocket-handkerchiefs!
and not one sailor-man on deck! Ah, if she'd only been a brigantine now! But it's lucky the
passage is so plain; there's no manoeuvring to mention. We get under weigh before the wind,
and run right so till we begin to get foul of the island; then we haul our wind and lie as
near south-east as may be till we're on that line; 'bout ship there and stand straight out
on the port tack. Catch the idea?"

"Yes, I see the idea," replied Carthew, rather dismally, and the two incompetents studied for
a long time in silence the complicated gear above their heads.

But the time came when these rehearsals must be put in practice. The sails were lowered, and
all hands heaved the anchor short. The whaleboat was then cut adrift, the upper topsails and
the spanker set, the yards braced up, and the spanker sheet hauled out to starboard.

"Heave away on your anchor, Mr. Carthew."

"Anchor's gone, sir."

"Set jibs."

It was done, and the brig still hung enchanted. Wicks, his head full of a schooner's mainsail,
turned his mind to the spanker. First he hauled in the sheet, and then he hauled it out, with
no result.

"Brail the damned thing up!" he bawled at last, with a red face. "There ain't no sense in it."

It was the last stroke of bewilderment for the poor captain, that he had no sooner brailed
up the spanker than the vessel came before the wind. The laws of nature seemed to him to be
suspended; he was like a man in a world of pantomime tricks; the cause of any result, and the
probable result of any action, equally concealed from him. He was the more careful not to shake
the nerve of his amateur assistants. He stood there with a face like a torch; but he gave his
orders with aplomb, and indeed, now the ship was under weigh, supposed his difficulties over.

The lower topsails and courses, were then set, and the brig began to walk the water like a
thing of life, her forefoot discoursing music, the birds flying and crying over her spars.
Bit by bit the passage began to open and the blue sea to show between the flanking breakers
on the reef; bit by bit, on the starboard bow, the low land of the islet began to heave closer
aboard. The yards were braced up, the spanker sheet hauled aft again; the brig was close hauled,
lay down to her work like a thing in earnest, and had soon drawn near to the point of advantage,
where she might stay and lie out of the lagoon in a single tack.

Wicks took the wheel himself, swelling with success. He kept the brig full to give her heels,
and began to bark his orders: "Ready about. Helm's a-lee. Tacks and sheets. Mainsail haul."
And then the fatal words: "That'll do your mainsail; jump for'ard and haul round your foreyards."

To stay a square-rigged ship is an affair of knowledge and swift sight: and a man used to the
succinct evolutions of a schooner will always tend to be too hasty with a brig. It was so now.
The order came too soon; the topsails set flat aback; the ship was in irons. Even yet, had
the helm been reversed, they might have saved her. But to think of a sternboard at all, far
more to think of profiting by one, were foreign to the schooner-sailor's mind. Wicks made haste
instead to wear ship, a manoeuvre for which room was wanting, and the Flying Scud took ground
on a bank of sand and coral about twenty minutes before five.

Wicks was no hand with a square-rigger, and he had shown it. But he was a sailor and a born
captain of men for all homely purposes, where intellect is not required and an eye in a man's
head and a heart under his jacket will suffice. Before the others had time to understand the
misfortune, he was bawling fresh orders, and had the sails clewed up, and took soundings round
the ship.

"She lies lovely," he remarked, and ordered out a boat with the starboard anchor.

"Here! steady!" cried Tommy. "You ain't going to turn us to, to warp her off?"

"I am though," replied Wicks.

"I won't set a hand to such tomfoolery for one," replied Tommy. "I'm dead beat." He went and
sat down doggedly on the main hatch. "You got us on; get us off again," he added.

Garthew and Wicks turned to each other.

"Perhaps you don't know how tired we are," said Carthew.

"The tide's flowing!" cried the captain. "You wouldn't have me miss a rising tide?"

"O, gammon! there's tides to-morrow!" retorted Tommy.

"And I'll tell you what," added Carthew, "the breeze is failing fast, and the sun will soon
be down. We may get into all kinds of fresh mess in the dark and with nothing but light airs."

"I don't deny it," answered Wicks, and stood a while as if in thought. "But what I can't make
out," he began again, with agitation, "what I can't make out is what you're made of! To stay
in this place is beyond me. There's the bloody sun going down--and to stay here is beyond me."

The others looked upon him with horrified surprise. This fall of their chief pillar--this irrational
passion in the practical man, suddenly barred out of his true sphere--the sphere of action--shocked
and daunted them. But it gave to another and unseen hearer the chance for which he had been
waiting. Mac, on the striking of the brig, had crawled up the companion, and he now showed
himself and spoke up.

"Captain Wicks," said he, "it's me that brought this trouble on the lot of ye. I'm sorry for
ut, I ask all your pardons, and if there's any one can say 'I forgive ye,' it'll make my soul
the lighter."

Wicks stared upon the man in amaze; then his self-control returned to him. "We're all in glass
houses here," he said; "we ain't going to turn to and throw stones. I forgive you, sure enough;
and much good may it do you!"

The others spoke to the same purpose.

"I thank ye for ut, and 'tis done like gentlemen," said Mac. "But there's another thing I have
upon my mind. I hope we're all Prodestans here?"

It appeared they were; it seemed a small thing for the Protestant religion to rejoice in!

"Well, that's as it should be," continued Mac. "And why shouldn't we say the Lord's Prayer?
There can't be no hurt in ut."

He had the same quiet, pleading, childlike way with him as in the morning; and the others accepted
his proposal, and knelt down without a word.

"Knale if ye like!" said he. "I'll stand." And he covered his eyes.

So the prayer was said to the accompaniment of the surf and sea-birds, and all rose refreshed
and felt lightened of a load. Up to then, they had cherished their guilty memories in private,
or only referred to them in the heat of a moment, and fallen immediately silent. Now they had
faced their remorse in company, and the worst seemed over. Nor was it only that. But the petition
"Forgive us our trespasses," falling in so apposite after they had themselves forgiven the
immediate author of their miseries, sounded like an absolution.

Tea was taken on deck in the time of the sunset, and not long after the five castaways--castaways
once more--lay down to sleep.

Day dawned windless and hot. Their slumbers had been too profound to be refreshing, and they
woke listless, and sat up, and stared about them with dull eyes. Only Wicks, smelling a hard
day's work ahead, was more alert. He went first to the well, sounded it once and then a second
time, and stood a while with a grim look, so that all could see he was dissatisfied. Then he
shook himself, stripped to the buff, clambered on the rail, drew himself up, and raised his
arms to plunge. The dive was never taken. He stood, instead, transfixed, his eyes on the horizon.

"Hand up that glass," he said.

In a trice they were all swarming aloft, the nude captain leading with the glass.

On the northern horizon was a finger of grey smoke, straight in the windless air like a point
of admiration.

"What do you make it?" they asked of Wicks.

"She's truck down," he replied; "no telling yet. By the way the smoke builds, she must be heading
right here."

"What can she be?"

"She might be a China mail," returned Wicks, "and she might be a blooming man-of-war, come
to look for castaways. Here! This ain't the time to stand staring. On deck, boys!"

He was the first on deck, as he had been the first aloft, handed down the ensign, bent it again
to the signal halliards, and ran it up union down.

"Now hear me," he said, jumping into his trousers, "and everything I say you grip on to. If
that's a man-of-war, she'll be in a tearing hurry; all these ships are what don't do nothing
and have their expenses paid. That's our chance; for we'll go with them, and they won't take
the time to look twice or to ask a question. I'm Captain Trent; Carthew, you're Goddedaal;
Tommy, you're Hardy; Mac's Brown; Amalu--hold hard! we can't make a Chinaman of him! Ah Wing
must have deserted; Amalu stowed away; and I turned him to as cook, and was never at the bother
to sign him. Catch the idea? Say your names."

And that pale company recited their lesson earnestly.

"What were the names of the other two?" he asked. "Him Carthew shot in the companion, and the
one I caught in the jaw on the main top-gallant?"

"Holdorsen and Wallen," said some one.

"Well, they're drowned," continued Wicks; "drowned alongside trying to lower a boat. We had
a bit of a squall last night; that's how we got ashore." He ran and squinted at the compass.
"Squall out of nor'-nor'west-half-west; blew hard; every one in a mess, falls jammed, and Holdorsen
and Wallen spilt overboard. See? Clear your blooming heads!" He was in his jacket now, and
spoke with a feverish impatience and contention that rang like anger.

"But is it safe?" asked Tommy.

"Safe?" bellowed the captain. "We're standing on the drop, you moon-calf! If that ship's bound
for China (which she don't look to be), we're lost as soon as we arrive; if she's bound the
other way, she comes from China, don't she? Well, if there's a man on board of her that ever
clapped eyes on Trent or any blooming hand out of this brig, we'll all be in irons in two hours.
Safe! no, it ain't safe; it's a beggarly last chance to shave the gallows, and that's what it is."

At this convincing picture fear took hold on all.

"Hadn't we a hundred times better stay by the brig?" cried Carthew. "They would give us a hand
to float her off."

"You'll make me waste this holy day in chattering!" cried Wicks. "Look here, when I sounded
the well this morning there was two feet of water there against eight inches last night. What's
wrong? I don't know; might be nothing; might be the worst kind of smash. And then, there we
are in for a thousand miles in an open boat, if that's your taste!"

"But it may be nothing, and anyway, their carpenters are bound to help us repair her," argued
Carthew.

"Moses Murphy!" cried the captain. "How did she strike? Bows on, I believe. And she's down
by the head now. If any carpenter comes tinkering here where'll he go first? Down in the forepeak,
I suppose! And then, how about all that blood among the chandlery? You would think you were
a lot of members of Parliament discussing Plimsoll; and you're just a pack of murderers with
the halter round your neck. Any other ass got any time to waste? No? Thank God for that! Now,
all hands! I'm going below, and I leave you here on deck. You get the boat-cover off that boat;
then you turn to and open the specie chest. There are five of us; get five chests, and divide
the specie equal among the five--put it at the bottom--and go at it like tigers. Get blankets,
or canvas, or clothes, so it won't rattle. It'll make five pretty heavy chests, but we can't
help that. You, Carthew--dash me!--You, Mr. Goddedaal, come below. We've our share before us."

And he cast another glance at the smoke, and hurried below with Carthew at his heels.

The logs were found in the main cabin behind the canary cage; two of them, one kept by Trent,
one by Goddedaal. Wicks looked first at one, then at the other, and his lip stuck out.

"Can you forge hand of write?" he asked.

"No," said Carthew.

"There's luck for you--no more can I!" cried the captain. "Hullo! here's worse yet--here's
this Goddedaal up to date; he must have filled it in before supper. See for yourself: 'Smoke
observed.--Captain Kirkup and five hands of the schooner Currency Lass.' Ah! this is better,"
he added, turning to the other log, "The old man ain't written anything for a clear fortnight.
We'll dispose of your log altogether, Mr. Goddedaal, and stick to the old man's--to mine, I
mean; only I ain't going to write it up for reasons of my own. You are. You're going to sit
down right here and fill it in the way I tell you."

"How to explain the loss of mine?" asked Carthew.

"You never kept one," replied the captain. "Gross neglect of duty. You'll catch it."

"And the change of writing?" resumed Carthew. "You began; why do you stop and why do I come
in? And you'll have to sign anyway."

"O! I've met with an accident and can't write," replied Wicks.

"An accident," repeated Carthew. "It don't sound natural. What kind of an accident?"

Wicks spread his hand face up on the table, and drove a knife through his palm.

"That kind of an accident," said he. "There's a way to draw to windward of most difficulties
if you've a head on your shoulders." He began to bind up his hand with a handkerchief, glancing
the while over Goddedaal's log. "Hullo!" he said; "this'll never do for us--this is an impossible
kind of yarn. Here, to begin with, is this Captain Trent, trying some fancy course, leastways
he's a thousand miles to south'ard of the great circle. And here, it seems, he was close up
with this island on the sixth, sails all these days, and is close up with it again by daylight
on the eleventh."

"Goddedaal said they had the deuce's luck," said Carthew.

"Well, it don't look like real life--that's all I can say," returned Wicks.

"It's the way it was, though," argued Carthew.

"So it is; and what the better are we for that, if it don't look so?" cried the captain, sounding
unwonted depths of art criticism. "Here! try and see if you can tie this bandage; I'm bleeding
like a pig."

As Carthew sought to adjust the handkerchief, his patient seemed sunk in a deep muse, his eye
veiled, his mouth partly open. The job was yet scarce done when he sprang to his feet.

"I have it," he broke out and ran on deck. "Here, boys!" he cried, "we didn't come here on
the eleventh; we came in here on the evening of the sixth, and lay here ever since becalmed.
As soon as you've done with these chests," he added, "you can turn to and roll out beef and
water-breakers; it'll look more ship-shape--like as if we were getting ready for the boat voyage."

And he was back again in a moment, cooking the new log. Goddedaal's was then carefully destroyed,
and a hunt began for the ship's papers. Of all the agonies of that breathless morning this
was perhaps the most poignant. Here and there the two men searched, cursing, cannoning together,
streaming with heat, freezing with terror. News was bawled down to them that the ship was indeed
a man-of-war, that she was close up, that she was lowering a boat; and still they sought in
vain. By what accident they missed the iron box with the money and accounts is hard to fancy,
but they did. And the vital documents were found at last in the pocket of Trent's shore-going
coat, where he had left them when last he came on board.

Wicks smiled for the first time that morning. "None too soon," said he. "And now for it! Take
these others for me; I'm afraid I'll get them mixed if I keep both."

"What are they?" Carthew asked.

"They're the Kirkup and Currency Lass papers," he replied. "Pray God we need 'em again!"

"Boat's inside the lagoon, sir," hailed down Mac, who sat by the skylight doing sentry while
the others worked.

"Time we were on deck, then, Mr. Goddedaal," said Wicks.

As they turned to leave the cabin, the canary burst into piercing song.

"My God!" cried Carthew, with a gulp, "we can't leave that wretched bird to starve. It was
poor Goddedaal's."

"Bring the bally thing along!" cried the captain.

And they went on deck.

An ugly brute of a modern man-of-war lay just without the reef, now quite inert, now giving
a flap or two with her propeller. Nearer hand, and just within, a big white boat came skimming
to the stroke of many oars, her ensign blowing at the stern.

"One word more," said Wicks, after he had taken in the scene. "Mac, you've been in China ports?
All right; then you can speak for yourself. The rest of you I kept on board all the time we
were in Hong Kong, hoping you would desert; but you fooled me and stuck to the brig. That'll
make your lying come easier."

The boat was now close at hand; a boy in the stern sheets was the only officer, and a poor
one plainly, for the men were talking as they pulled.

"Thank God, they've only sent a kind of a middy!" ejaculated Wicks.--"Here you, Hardy, stand
for'ard! I'll have no deck hands on my quarter-deck," he cried, and the reproof braced the
whole crew like a cold douche.

The boat came alongside with perfect neatness, and the boy officer stepped on board, where
he was respectfully greeted by Wicks.

"You the master of this ship?" he asked.

"Yes, sir," said Wicks. "Trent is my name, and this is the Flying Scud of Hull."

"You seem to have got into a mess," said the officer.

"If you'll step aft with me here, I'll tell you all there is of it," said Wicks.

"Why, man, you're shaking!" cried the officer.

"So would you, perhaps, if you had been in the same berth," returned Wicks; and he told the
whole story of the rotten water, the long calm, the squall, the seamen drowned, glibly and
hotly, talking, with his head in the lion's mouth, like one pleading in the dock. I heard the
same tale from the same narrator in the saloon in San Francisco; and even then his bearing
filled me with suspicion. But the officer was no observer.

"Well, the captain is in no end of a hurry," said he; "but I was instructed to give you all
the assistance in my power, and signal back for another boat if more hands were necessary.
What can I do for you?"

"O, we won't keep you no time," replied Wicks cheerily. "We're all ready, bless you--men's
chests, chronometer, papers, and all."

"Do you mean to leave her?" cried the officer. "She seems to me to lie nicely; can't we get
your ship off?"

"So we could, and no mistake; but how we're to keep her afloat's another question. Her bows
is stove in," replied Wicks.

The officer coloured to the eyes. He was incompetent, and knew he was; thought he was already
detected, and feared to expose himself again. There was nothing further from his mind than
that the captain should deceive him; if the captain was pleased, why, so was he. "All right,"
he said. "Tell your men to get their chests aboard."

"Mr. Goddedaal, turn the hands to to get the chests aboard," said Wicks.

The four Currency Lasses had waited the while on tenter-hooks. This welcome news broke upon
them like the sun at midnight; and Hadden burst into a storm of tears, sobbing aloud as he
heaved upon the tackle. But the work went none the less briskly forward; chests, men, and bundles
were got over the side with alacrity; the boat was shoved off; it moved out of the long shadow
of the Flying Scud, and its bows were pointed at the passage.

So much, then, was accomplished. The sham wreck had passed muster; they were clear of her,
they were safe away; and the water widened between them and her damning evidences. On the other
hand, they were drawing nearer to the ship of war, which might very well prove to be their
prison and a hangman's cart to bear them to the gallows of which they had not yet learned either
whence she came or whither she was bound; and the doubt weighed upon their heart like mountains.

It was Wicks who did the talking. The sound was small in Carthew's ears, like the voices of
men miles away, but the meaning of each word struck home to him like a bullet. "What did you
say your ship was?" inquired Wicks.

"Tempest, don't you know?" returned the officer.

"Don't you know?" What could that mean? Perhaps nothing: perhaps that the ships had met already.
Wicks took his courage in both hands. "Where is she bound?" he asked.

"O, we're just looking in at all these miserable islands here," said the officer. "Then we
bear up for San Francisco."

"O yes, you're from China ways, like us?" pursued Wicks.

"Hong Kong," said the officer, and spat over the side.

Hong Kong. Then the game was up; as soon as they set foot on board, they would be seized: the
wreck would be examined, the blood found, the lagoon perhaps dredged, and the bodies of the
dead would reappear to testify. An impulse almost incontrollable bade Carthew rise from the
thwart, shriek out aloud, and leap overboard: it seemed so vain a thing to dissemble longer,
to dally with the inevitable, to spin out some hundred seconds more of agonised suspense, with
shame and death thus visibly approaching. But the indomitable Wicks persevered. His face was
like a skull, his voice scarce recognisable; the dullest of men and officers (it seemed) must
have remarked that tell-tale countenance and broken utterance. And still he persevered, bent
upon certitude.

"Nice place, Hong Kong?" he said.

"I'm sure I don't know," said the officer. "Only a day and a half there; called for orders
and came straight on here. Never heard of such a beastly cruise." And he went on describing
and lamenting the untoward fortunes of the Tempest.

But Wicks and Carthew heeded him no longer. They lay back on the gunwale, breathing deep, sunk
in a stupor of the body; the mind within still nimbly and agreeably at work, measuring the
past danger, exulting in the present relief, numbering with ecstasy their ultimate chances
of escape. For the voyage in the man-of-war they were now safe; yet a few more days of peril,
activity and presence of mind in San Francisco, and the whole horrid tale was blotted out;
and Wicks again became Kirkup, and Goddedaal became Carthew--men beyond all shot of possible
suspicion, men who had never heard of the Flying Scud, who had never been in sight of Midway Reef.

So they came alongside, under many craning heads of seamen and projecting mouths of guns; so
they climbed on board somnambulous, and looked blindly about them at the tall spars, the white
decks, and the crowding ship's company, and heard men as from far away, and answered them at
random.

And then a hand fell softly on Carthew's shoulder.

"Why, Norrie, old chappie, where have you dropped from? All the world's been looking for you.
Don't you know you've come into your kingdom?"

He turned, beheld the face of his old schoolmate Sebright, and fell unconscious at his feet.

The doctor was attending him, a while later, in Lieutenant Sebright's cabin, when he came to
himself. He opened his eyes, looked hard in the strange face, and spoke with a kind of solemn
vigour.

"Brown must go the same road," he said, "now or never." And then paused, and his reason coming
to him with more clearness, spoke again: "What was I saying Where am I? Who are you?"

"I am the doctor of the Tempest," was the reply. "You are in Lieutenant Sebright's berth, and
you may dismiss all concern from your mind. Your troubles are over, Mr. Carthew."

"Why do you call me that?" he asked. "Ah, I remember--Sebright knew me! O!" and he groaned
and shook. "Send down Wicks to me; I must see Wicks at once!" he cried, and seized the doctor's
wrist with unconscious violence.

"All right," said the doctor. "Let's make a bargain. You swallow down this draught, and I'll
go and fetch Wicks."

And he gave the wretched man an opiate that laid him out within ten minutes, and in all likelihood
preserved his reason.

It was the doctor's next business to attend to Mac; and he found occasion, while engaged upon
his arm, to make the man repeat the names of the rescued crew. It was now the turn of the captain,
and there is no doubt he was no longer the man that we have seen; sudden relief, the sense
of perfect safety, a square meal, and a good glass of grog, had all combined to relax his vigilance
and depress his energy.

"When was this done?" asked the doctor, looking at the wound.

"More than a week ago," replied Wicks, thinking singly of his log.

"Hey?" cried the doctor, and he raised his head and looked the captain in the eyes.

"I don't remember exactly," faltered Wicks.

And at this remarkable falsehood the suspicions of the doctor were at once quadrupled.

"By the way, which of you is called Wicks?" he asked easily.

"What's that?" snapped the captain, falling white as paper.

"Wicks," repeated the doctor; "which of you is he? That's surely a plain question."

Wicks stared upon his questioner in silence.

"Which is Brown, then?" pursued the doctor.

"What are you talking of? what do you mean by this?" cried Wicks, snatching his half-bandaged
hand away, so that the blood sprinkled in the surgeon's face.

He did not trouble to remove it; looking straight at his victim, he pursued his questions.
"Why must Brown go the same way?" he asked.

Wicks fell trembling on a locker. "Carthew told you," he cried.

"No," replied the doctor, "he has not. But he and you between you have set me thinking, and
I think there's something wrong."

"Give me some grog," said Wicks. "I'd rather tell than have you find out. I'm damned if it's
half as bad as what anyone would think."

And with the help of a couple of strong grogs, the tragedy of the Flying Scud was told for
the first time.

It was a fortunate series of accidents that brought the story to the doctor. He understood
and pitied the position of these wretched men, and came whole-heartedly to their assistance.
He and Wicks and Carthew (so soon as he was recovered) held a hundred councils and prepared
a policy for San Francisco. It was he who certified "Goddedaal" unfit to be moved, and smuggled
Carthew ashore under cloud of night; it was he who kept Wicks's wound open that he might sign
with his left hand; he who took all their Chile silver and (in the course of the first day)
got it converted for them into portable gold. He used his influence in the ward-room to keep
the tongues of the young officers in order, so that Carthew's identification was kept out of
the papers. And he rendered another service yet more important. He had a friend in San Francisco,
a millionaire: to this man he privately presented Carthew as a young gentleman come newly into
a huge estate, but troubled with Jew debts which he was trying to settle on the quiet. The
millionaire came readily to help; and it was with his money that the wrecker gang was to be
fought. What was his name, out of a thousand guesses? It was Douglas Longhurst.

As long as the Currency Lasses could all disappear under fresh names, it did not greatly matter
if the brig were bought, or any small discrepancies should be discovered in the wrecking. The
identification of one of their number had changed all that. The smallest scandal must now direct
attention to the movements of Norris. It would be asked how he who had sailed in a schooner
from Sydney had turned up so shortly after in a brig out of Hong Kong; and from one question
to another all his original shipmates were pretty sure to be involved. Hence arose naturally
the idea of preventing danger, profiting by Carthew's new-found wealth, and buying the brig
under an alias; and it was put in hand with equal energy and caution. Carthew took lodgings
alone under a false name, picked up Bellairs at random, and commissioned him to buy the wreck.

"What figure, if you please?" the lawyer asked.

"I want it bought," replied Carthew. "I don't mind about the price."

"Any price is no price," said Bellairs. "Put a name upon it."

"Call it ten thousand pounds then, if you like!" said Carthew.

In the meanwhile, the captain had to walk the streets, appear in the consulate, be cross-examined
by Lloyd's agent, be badgered about his lost accounts, sign papers with his left hand, and
repeat his lies to every skipper in San Francisco; not knowing at what moment he might run
into the arms of some old friend who should hail him by the name of Wicks, or some new enemy
who should be in a position to deny him that of Trent. And the latter incident did actually
befall him, but was transformed by his stout countenance into an element of strength. It was
in the consulate (of all untoward places) that he suddenly heard a big voice inquiring for
Captain Trent. He turned with the customary sinking at his heart.

"You ain't Captain Trent!" said the stranger, falling back. "Why, what's all this? They tell
me you're passing off as Captain Trent--Captain Jacob Trent--a man I knew since I was that high."

"O, you're thinking of my uncle as had the bank in Cardiff," replied Wicks, with desperate aplomb.

"I declare I never knew he had a nevvy!" said the stranger.

"Well, you see he has!" says Wicks.

"And how is the old man?" asked the other.

"Fit as a fiddle," answered Wicks, and was opportunely summoned by the clerk.

This alert was the only one until the morning of the sale, when he was once more alarmed by
his interview with Jim; and it was with some anxiety that he attended the sale, knowing only
that Carthew was to be represented, but neither who was to represent him nor what were the
instructions given. I suppose Captain Wicks is a good life. In spite of his personal appearance
and his own known uneasiness, I suppose he is secure from apoplexy, or it must have struck
him there and then, as he looked on at the stages of that insane sale and saw the old brig
and her not very valuable cargo knocked down at last to a total stranger for ten thousand pounds.

It had been agreed that he was to avoid Carthew, and above all Carthew's lodging, so that no
connection might be traced between the crew and the pseudonymous purchaser. But the hour for
caution was gone by, and he caught a tram and made all speed to Mission Street.

Carthew met him in the door.

"Come away, come away from here," said Carthew; and when they were clear of the house, "All's
up!" he added.

"O, you've heard of the sale, then?" said Wicks.

"The sale!" cried Carthew. "I declare I had forgotten it." And he told of the voice in the
telephone, and the maddening question: "Why did you want to buy the Flying Scud?"

This circumstance, coming on the back of the monstrous improbabilities of the sale, was enough
to have shaken the reason of Immanuel Kant. The earth seemed banded together to defeat them;
the stones and the boys on the street appeared to be in possession of their guilty secret.
Flight was their one thought. The treasure of the Currency Lass they packed in waistbelts,
expressed their chests to an imaginary address in British Columbia, and left San Francisco
the same afternoon, booked for Los Angeles.

The next day they pursued their retreat by the Southern Pacific route, which Carthew followed
on his way to England; but the other three branched off for Mexico.

EPILOGUE

EPILOGUE

TO WILL H. LOW

Dear Low,--The other day (at Manihiki of all places) I had the pleasure to meet Dodd. We sat
some two hours in the neat little toy-like church, set with pews after the manner of Europe,
and inlaid with mother-of-pearl in the style (I suppose) of the New Jerusalem. The natives,
who are decidedly the most attractive inhabitants of this planet, crowded round us in the pew,
and fawned upon and patted us; and here it was I put my questions, and Dodd answered me.

I first carried him back to the night in Barbizon when Carthew told his story, and asked him
what was done about Bellairs. It seemed he had put the matter to his friend at once, and that
Carthew had taken to it with an inimitable lightness. "He's poor and I'm rich," he had said.
"I can afford to smile at him. I go somewhere else, that's all--somewhere that's far away and
dear to get to. Persia would be found to answer, I fancy. No end of a place, Persia. Why not
come with me?" And they had left the next afternoon for Constantinople, on their way to Teheran.
Of the shyster, it is only known (by a newspaper paragraph) that he returned somehow to San
Francisco and died in the hospital.

"Now there's another point," said I. "There you are off to Persia with a millionaire, and rich
yourself. How come you here in the South Seas, running a trader?"

He said, with a smile, that I had not yet heard of Jim's last bankruptcy. "I was about cleaned
out once more," he said; "and then it was that Carthew had this schooner built and put me in
as supercargo. It's his yacht and it's my trader; and as nearly all the expenses go to the
yacht, I do pretty well. As for Jim, he's right again; one of the best businesses, they say,
in the West--fruit, cereals, and real estate; and he has a Tartar of a partner now--Nares,
no less. Nares will keep him straight, Nares has a big head. They have their country places
next door at Saucelito, and I stayed with them time about, the last time I was on the coast.
Jim had a paper of his own--I think he has a notion of being senator one of these days--and
he wanted me to throw up the schooner and come and write his editorials. He holds strong views
on the State Constitution, and so does Mamie."

"And what became of the other three Currency Lasses after they left Carthew?" I inquired.

"Well, it seems they had a huge spree in the city of Mexico," said Dodd; "and then Hadden and
the Irishman took a turn at the gold-fields in Venezuela, and Wicks went on alone to Valparaiso.
There's a Kirkup in the Chilean navy to this day; I saw the name in the papers about the Balmaceda
war. Hadden soon wearied of the mines, and I met him the other day in Sydney. The last news
he had from Venezuela, Mac had been knocked over in an attack on the gold train. So there's
only the three of them left, for Amalu scarcely counts. He lives on his own land in Maui, at
the side of Hale-a-ka-la, where he keeps Goddedaal's canary; and they say he sticks to his
dollars, which is a wonder in a Kanaka. He had a considerable pile to start with, for not only
Hemstead's share but Carthew's was divided equally among the other four--Mac being counted."

"What did that make for him altogether?" I could not help asking, for I had been diverted by
the number of calculations in his narrative.

"One hundred and twenty-eight pounds nineteen shillings and elevenpence-halfpenny," he replied
with composure; "that's leaving out what little he won at Van John. It's something for a Kanaka,
you know."

And about that time we were at last obliged to yield to the solicitations of our native admirers,
and go to the pastor's house to drink green cocoanuts. The ship I was in was sailing the same
night, for Dodd had been beforehand and got all the shell in the island; and though he pressed
me to desert and return with him to Auckland (whither he was now bound to pick up Carthew)
I was firm in my refusal.

The truth is, since I have been mixed up with Havens and Dodd in the design to publish the
latter's narrative, I seem to feel no want for Carthew's society. Of course, I am wholly modern
in sentiment, and think nothing more noble than to publish people's private affairs at so much
a line. They like it, and if they don't they ought to. But a still small voice keeps telling
me they will not like it always, and perhaps not always stand it. Memory besides supplies me
with the face of a pressman (in the sacred phrase) who proved altogether too modern for one
of his neighbours, and

  Qui nunc it per iter tenebricosum
  --nos præcedens--

as it were, marshalling us our way. I am in no haste to be that man's successor. Carthew has
a record as "a clane shot," and for some years Samoa will be good enough for me.

We agreed to separate, accordingly; but he took me on board in his own boat with the hardwood
fittings and entertained me on the way with an account of his late visit to Butaritari, whither
he had gone on an errand for Carthew, to see how Topelius was getting along, and, if necessary,
to give him a helping hand. But Topelius was in great force, and had patronised and--well--out-manoeuvred
him.

"Carthew will be pleased," said Dodd; "for there's no doubt they oppressed the man abominably
when they were in the Currency Lass. It's diamond cut diamond now."

       *       *       *       *       *

This, I think, was the most of the news I got from my friend Loudon; and I hope I was well
inspired, and have put all the questions to which you would be curious to hear an answer.

But there is one more that I daresay you are burning to put to myself; and that is, what your
own name is doing in this place, cropping up (as it were uncalled-for) on the stern of our
poor ship? If you were not born in Arcadia, you linger in fancy on its margin; your thoughts
are busied with the flutes of antiquity, with daffodils, and the classic poplar, and the footsteps
of the nymphs, and the elegant and moving aridity of ancient art. Why dedicate to you a tale
of a cast so modern:--full of details of our barbaric manners and unstable morals; full of
the need and the lust of money, so that there is scarce a page in which the dollars do not
jingle; full of the unrest and movement of our century, so that the reader is hurried from
place to place and sea to sea, and the book is less a romance than a panorama--in the end,
as blood-bespattered as an epic?

Well, you are a man interested in all problems of art, even the most vulgar; and it may amuse
you to hear the genesis and growth of "The Wrecker." On board the schooner Equator, almost
within sight of the Johnstone Islands (if anybody knows where these are), and on a moonlit
night when it was a joy to be alive, the authors were amused with several stories of the sales
of wrecks. The subject tempted them; and they sat apart in the alleyway to discuss its possibilities.
"What a tangle it would make," suggested one, "if the wrong crew were aboard. But how to get
the wrong crew there?"--"I have it!" cried the other; "the so-and-so affair!" For not so many
months before, and not so many hundred miles from where we were then sailing, a proposition
almost tantamount to that of Captain Trent had been made by a British skipper to some British
castaways.

Before we turned in, the scaffolding of the tale had been put together. But the question of
treatment was as usual more obscure. We had long been at once attracted and repelled by that
very modern form of the police novel or mystery story, which consists in beginning your yarn
anywhere but at the beginning, and finishing it anywhere but at the end; attracted by its peculiar
interest when done, and the peculiar difficulties that attend its execution; repelled by that
appearance of insincerity and shallowness of tone, which seems its inevitable drawback. For
the mind of the reader, always bent to pick up clues, receives no impression of reality or
life, rather of an airless, elaborate mechanism; and the book remains enthralling but insignificant,
like a game of chess, not a work of human art. It seemed the cause might lie partly in the
abrupt attack; and that if the tale were gradually approached, some of the characters introduced
(as it were) beforehand, and the book started in the tone of a novel of manners and experience
briefly treated, this defect might be lessened and our mystery seem to inhere in life. The
tone of the age, its movement, the mingling of races and classes in the dollar hunt, the fiery
and not quite unromantic struggle for existence, with its changing trades and scenery, and
two types in particular, that of the American handy-man of business and that of the Yankee
merchant sailor--we agreed to dwell upon at some length, and make the woof to our not very
precious warp. Hence Dodd's father, and Pinkerton, and Nares, and the Dromedary picnics, and
the railway work in New South Wales--the last and unsolicited testimonial from the powers that
be, for the tale was half written before I saw Carthew's squad toil in the rainy cutting at
South Clifton, or heard from the engineer of his "young swell." After we had invented at some
expense of time this method of approaching and fortifying our police novel, it occurred to
us it had been invented previously by some one else, and was in fact--however painfully different
the results may seem--the method of Charles Dickens in his later work.

I see you staring. Here, you will say, is a prodigious quantity of theory to our halfpenny-worth
of police novel; and withal not a shadow of an answer to your question.

Well, some of us like theory. After so long a piece of practice, these may be indulged for
a few pages. And the answer is at hand. It was plainly desirable, from every point of view
of convenience and contrast, that our hero and narrator should partly stand aside from those
with whom he mingles, and be but a pressed-man in the dollar hunt. Thus it was that Loudon
Dodd became a student of the plastic arts, and that our globe-trotting story came to visit
Paris and look in at Barbizon. And thus it is, dear Low, that your name appears in the address
of this epilogue.

For sure, if any person can here appreciate and read between the lines, it must be you--and
one other, our friend. All the dominos will be transparent to your better knowledge; the statuary
contract will be to you a piece of ancient history; and you will not have now heard for the
first time of the dangers of Roussillon. Dead leaves from the Bas Breau, echoes from Lavenue's
and the Rue Racine, memories of a common past, let these be your bookmarkers as you read. And
if you care for naught else in the story, be a little pleased to breathe once more for a moment
the airs of our youth.

END OF VOL. XIII

PRINTED BY CASSELL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAGE, LONDON, E.C.