DICK AND BROWNIE.

by

Mabel Quiller-Couch

CONTENTS.

Chapter.

   I.       THE ESCAPE.

   II.      A NIGHT SCARE.

   III.     WHAT THE MORNING BROUGHT.

   IV.      MISS ROSE.

   V.       SURPRISES.

   VI.      HULDAH GOES SHOPPING.

   VII.     A MEETING AND AN ALARM.

   VIII.    TRACKED DOWN.

   IX.      TO THE RESCUE.

   X.       ONE SUMMER'S AFTERNOON.

   XI.      HULDAH'S NEW HOME.

   XII.     HAPPY HOURS.

CHAPTER I.

THE ESCAPE.

The summer sun blazed down scorchingly on the white road, on the wide stretch of moorland in
the distance, and on the little coppice which grew not far from the road.

The only shady spot for miles, it seemed, was that one under the trees in the little coppice,
where the caravan stood; but even there the heat was stifling, and the smell of hot blistering
varnish mingled with the faint scent of honeysuckle and dog-roses.

Not a sound broke the stillness, for even the birds had been driven to shelter and to silence,
and except for the rabbits very few other live things lived about there, to make any sounds.
That afternoon there were four other live things in the coppice, but they too were silent,
for they were wrapped in deep sleep.  The four were a man and a woman, a horse and a dog, and
of all the things in that stretch of country they were the most unlovely.  The man and the
woman were dirty, untidy, red-faced and coarse.  Even in their sleep their faces looked cruel
and sullen.  The old horse standing patiently by, with drooping head and hopeless, patient
eyes, looked starved and weak. His poor body was so thin that the bones seemed ready to push
through the skin, on which showed the marks of the blows he had received that morning.  The
fourth creature there was a dog, as thin as the horse, but younger, a lank, yellow, ugly, big-bodied
dog, with a clever head, bright, speaking brown eyes, and as keen a nose for scent as any dog
ever born possessed.

The brown eyes had been closed for a while in slumber, but presently they opened alertly; a
fly had bitten his nose, and the owner of the nose got up to catch the fly.  This done, he
looked around him. He looked with drooped ears and tail at the sleeping man and woman, with
ears a little raised at the old horse, and then with both ears and tail alertly cocked he looked
about him eagerly, even anxiously. A second later he was leaping up the steps and into the
caravan; but in less than a minute he was out again, leaping over the steps at the other end,
and out to the edge of the coppice.  What he was in search of was not in the van, or under
it, or anywhere near it.

The dog did not whine, or make a sound.  He knew better than that. A whine would have brought
a heavy boot flying through the air at him, or a stick across his back, or a kick in the ribs,
if he were foolish enough to go within reach of a foot.  With his long nose to the ground he
stepped delicately to the edge of the coppice, then stood still looking about him, his brown
eyes full of wistful anxiety.

He looked to the right, he looked to the left, he listened eagerly, then he stepped back to
the van again.  This time he found something. It was only a clue, but it sent his spirits up
again, and with his nose to the ground he came quickly back to the edge of the little wood
and beyond it; then, evidently satisfied, he took to his heels and raced away with a joy which
almost forced a yelp of triumph from his throat.

The old horse raised his head and looked after the dog wistfully. "If only I were as young
and fleet, and able to get away as quietly!" he thought longingly, and sighed a sigh which
made his thin sides heave painfully.  Then his head drooped again, even more sadly than before,
and he closed his eyes patiently once more.  He loved the lank yellow dog.  Next to little
Huldah he loved him better than anything in the world.  It hurt him as much or more to hear
the stick raining blows on them as it did to feel it on his own poor battered body, for his
poor skin was hardened, but his feelings were not.

On each side of the wide road which ran past the coppice and away from it were sunk ditches
and high hedges, separating it from a bit of wild moorland, which stretched away on either
side as far as eye could see.  Here and there in the hedges were gaps, through which a person
or an animal could pass from the road to the moor, and back again.  To Dick, who did not understand
it, this was very bewildering.  Ahead of him a black shadow would flit for a moment, dark against
the dazzling white road, then it would disappear. It moved so swiftly and so close to the ground,
that if it had not been for the scent he might have thought it was some animal dodging about
among the ditches and dry grasses.  Dick could not know that when it had slipped through a
gap in the hedge it became, instead of a shadow, a solid little dingy brown figure.

Dick was puzzled.  He was sure that Huldah was on ahead of him somewhere, and he was very sure
that he wanted her, but he was not at all sure where she was, or that she wanted him; and there
are times in the lives of caravan dogs when they are not wanted, and are made to know it. 
Dick had learnt that fact, but he wanted Huldah, and he could not help feeling that she wanted
him.  It was very seldom that she did not.

So he followed along slowly, keeping at a safe distance, his eyes and his senses all on the
alert to find out if that shadow ahead of him was really his little mistress, or what it was--and
if she would be angry if he ran after her and joined her.

For a mile, for two miles, they went on like this, then the moor ended, and roads and fields
and houses came in sight.  The black shadow, which was really a little brown girl, stood for
a moment under the shelter of the hedge and looked hurriedly about her. "Which'll be the safest
way to go?" she gasped to herself, and wished her heart would not thump so hard, for it made
her tremble so that she could hardly stand or move.  She shaded her eyes with her little sun-burnt
hand and looked about her anxiously.

"They'd be certain sure to take the van along the main road," she said to herself; "and anyway
somebody might see me, and tell 'im. He's sure to ask everybody if they've seen me."  A sob
caught in her throat, and tears came very near her eyes.  She had often and often thought of
running away, but had never before had the courage and the opportunity at the same time, and
now that she had got both, and had seized them, she was horribly frightened.

She was not so frightened by the prospect of want and loneliness and uncertainty which lay
before her, as she was by the thought of being caught, and taken back again.  The risk of capture
after this bold step of hers, and what would follow, were so terrible that the mere thought
of them made her turn off the high road at a run, and dash into the nearest lane she came to.
She had the sense to choose one on the opposite side of the road, lest she should find herself
back on the moor again.  A moor was so treacherous, there was no shelter, and one never knew
when one would be pounced on.  There was no shelter either, no food, no house, no safe hiding-place,
and of course there was no chance of finding a friend there, who might take pity on her.

The lane she dashed into so blindly was a steep one, it led up, and up, and up, but the hedges
were so high she could not see anything beyond them.  They shut out all the air too, and the
heat was quite stifling, her poor thin little face grew scarlet, the perspiration ran off her
brow in heavy drops.  She picked up her apron at last, to wipe them away, and then it was she
found the bundle of raffia and the two or three baskets she had brought out to sell, when the
thought had come to her that she would never go back any more--that here was the chance she
had longed for.  Now, when she noticed the baskets for the first time, her heart beat faster
than ever, for she could well picture the rage there would be, when it was discovered that
not only had she run away, but had taken with her two baskets ready for sale!

"They are mine! I made them," she gasped, nervously, "and I left some behind!" but her alarm
put fresh energy into her tired feet, and, in spite of the heat and her weariness, she ran,
and ran madly, she did not know or care whither, as long as she got lost.  Wherever she saw
a way, she took it; the more winding it was the better.  Anything rather than keep to a straight,
direct road that they could trace.

At one moment she thought of hiding away her baskets and raffia, but she was very, very hungry
by this time, and with the baskets lay her only chance of being able to buy food, and oh, she
needed food badly. She needed it so much that at last, from sheer exhaustion, she had to stop
and lie down on the ground to recover herself.

It was then that Huldah first caught sight of Dick.  All the way she had gone, he had followed
her at a distance, careful never to get too close, cautiously keeping well out of sight, running
when she ran, drawing back and half-concealing himself when she slackened her pace, and there
was a likelihood of her looking around.  Now at last, though, they had come to moorland again,
with only a big boulder here and there for shelter, and when Huldah suddenly fell down, exhausted,
Dick, in his fright at seeing her lying on the ground motionless, forgot all about hiding away.
Everything but concern for his little mistress went out of his head.  Huldah, lying flat on
the ground with her head resting on her outstretched arm, her face turned away from the pitiless
sun, saw nothing.  She did not want to see anything; the desolateness of the great bare stretch
of land frightened her. She felt terribly frightened, and terribly lonely.  Should she die
here, she wondered, alone!  At the prospect a sob broke from her.

To poor Dick, who had crept up so close that he stood beside her, this was too much.  At the
sound of her distress he was so overcome, he could no longer keep his feelings under restraint.
A bark broke from him, eager, coaxing, half frightened; then, repentant and ashamed, he thrust
his hot nose into Huldah's hand, and licked it apologetically.

Weary, dead-beat as she was, Huldah sprang up into a sitting position.  "Dick!" she cried,
"oh, Dick!  How did you come here? Oh, I am so glad, so glad!" and flinging her arms round
his long yellow neck she burst into happy tears.  Dick was delighted. Instead of being scolded,
he was petted, and his little mistress was plainly glad to see him.  He was as hungry as she
was, and very nearly as tired, but nothing mattered to him now.

"Oh, Dick, how did you come? and, oh, won't they beat us if they catch us! and--and oh, I hope
they won't beat poor old Charlie worse than ever, because they are angry.  Oh, I do wish Charlie
was here too.  Poor old Charlie! he will be so lonely."

Dick wagged his tail and looked about him.  Perhaps he was thinking that Charlie might have
been able to find something to eat in that bare spot, but that it was more than they could.
Huldah realised this too, and with a sigh she scrambled on to her aching feet again. She must
find somebody to help them--a house and food of some kind.

"You shall lead the way this time, Dick.  You are clever, and can scent things out.  You'll
know which way to go to find houses."

It took Dick a little while to understand that he was expected to run ahead now, not to follow,
and indeed it is doubtful if he did understand it, but a rabbit popping up ahead of them at
that moment drew him on, and Huldah more slowly followed.  It was a very zig-zag way that Dick
took them, for he was intent on finding rabbits, not houses, but, fortunately, it led them
at last to a house, too.

The sun was going down in a crimson glory, and a mistiness was creeping up over the land on
all sides, when, to her great relief, Huldah saw the welcome sight of smoke rising out of chimneys,
then other signs of life, and presently came to a farm standing in the middle of a large yard.
The yard seemed very full of animals, and where there were no animals there were hay-ricks
and corn, and empty upturned carts and waggons.

It was a lonely-looking place in that evening light, and the melancholy mooing of the cows,
the good-night cluckings of the hens, the bleating of the sheep, seemed to add to the desolateness.
As Huldah and Dick drew nearer, another and more terrifying sound arose, and that was the barking
of dogs.  Dogs sprang up from everywhere, or so it seemed to poor little Huldah, and, forgetting
the coming night, her hunger and everything else, she fled from the place, shrieking to Dick
to follow her.

Fortunately, Dick obeyed.  Hunger and tiredness had taken most of his spirit out of him, or
he could never have resisted such an opportunity for a fight; the enemy numbered six to one,
too, not to speak of the farmer, who was armed with a long whip, and two or three workmen,
who were well provided with sticks or pitchforks, and hungry, footsore Dick did not at that
moment feel equal to facing them all, and doing himself justice.  So, with an impudent flick
of his tail he followed Huldah, with the air of one who would not deign to fight mere farm-dogs.

It was a very weary, dejected pair, though, that at last stopped running, and summoned courage
to stand and look about them once more; and the fright had so shaken Huldah's courage that
when presently she caught sight of more smoking chimneys, and a group of little grey stone
houses, and other signs of life not far ahead of them, she felt almost more sorry than glad.

When she came closer, and found the village street full of people, she felt decidedly sorry,
and wished wildly that she had gone any other way, and so avoided them.

After the terrible heat of the day, men, women and children had all turned out of their close,
stifling cottages, and were sitting or lounging about on doorstep or pavement, enjoying the
coolness of the evening air; and, having nothing to do and little to talk about, and not much
to look at, they naturally took a great interest in the odd-looking pair which came suddenly
into their midst.  The dusty, shabby little girl and the lanky yellow dog.

Huldah did not appreciate their interest.  She felt ill with nervousness, when she saw all
the eyes turned towards her, and, she longed to be out on the moor again,--anywhere, lost,
hungry, lonely, tired, rather than under this fire of eyes.  She had wanted very much to try
to sell one of her baskets, that she might be able to buy some bread, but the staring people
daunted her.  She felt she could not have stopped and spoken to one of them, or have offered
her wares, to have saved her life.  It was all she could do to drag her trembling limbs past
them, and out of their sight.

The end of the street was reached at last, though the cottages grew more and more scattered,
then stopped altogether, and the pair found themselves alone once more.  Poor Dick was by this
time past doing anything but plod wearily along, his tail down, his ears drooping, his tongue
hanging out.  Huldah herself was in a half-dazed state, she scarcely knew where she was, or
what she was doing.  She plodded on and on mechanically, every step becoming harder, every
yard a greater tax on her.  She had almost given up hope, and decided to lie down under a hedge
for the night, when her dim eyes were attracted by a light which suddenly shone out on the
darkness, down a little lane on her right.

She paused in her walk, and stood gazing at it longingly.  To the exhausted, lonely, frightened
child it seemed a beautiful sight. It was like a friendly smile, a kindly welcome reaching
out to her in her hopelessness.

"I will go and ask them to help me," she thought, dully.  "They won't kill me; perhaps they'll
give me a bit of bread for one of my baskets.  They won't call the p'lice so late as this."

Dick looked up at her and obediently followed.  It was all one to him where he went.  He had
no hopes and no fears, he was better off than poor Huldah in that respect, but he roused to
renewed interest and expectation when his little mistress stopped before a cottage, and walking
timidly up the garden, knocked at the front door.

CHAPTER II.

A NIGHT SCARE.

Silence!  Seconds passed, to Huldah they seemed endless, her heart, which at first had beat
furiously, quieted down until it seemed scarcely to beat at all.  Save for the good-night calls
of the birds, and the sad mooing of a cow in a field not far away, the silence remained unbroken.

"Perhaps I didn't knock loud enough," thought Huldah, "or whoever's inside may be gone to sleep."

If her plight had been less desperate, she would never have had the courage to knock again,
but she felt ill and exhausted and frightened, and something seemed to tell her that here she
might find help.  So, after waiting a little longer, she screwed up her courage again, and
rapped once more, this time more loudly; and this time, at any rate, her knock called forth
response.  There were sounds of hasty shuffling steps across the floor, and then a voice, old
and evidently trembling, called through the door, "Who is there?"

Huldah was puzzled how to answer.  If she were to say "me," it would be only foolish, while
if she called back, "I am Huldah Bate," her hearer would not know who Huldah Bate was.  However,
she had to say something, so she called back pleadingly, "I am a little girl, Huldah Bate,
and please, ma'am, I'm starving, and--and please open the door. I can't hurt you, I am too little."

It was her voice even more than her words which induced Martha Perry to open her door to the
suppliant.  It was such a childish voice, and so weak, and pleading, and tired.  So the bolts
were drawn back, and the door was opened.  It was only opened a few inches, but wide enough
to let out a stream of light, which brought some comfort and hope to the child's heart and
the dog's heart.  Huldah stepped forward into the light to show herself.

"You are sure you 'aven't got anybody with you?" asked the woman, with nervous suspicion.

"No, ma'am, no one but Dick."

"Who's Dick?" hastily pushing the door close, in her alarm.

"Dick's my dog.  He--he followed me.  He's starving, too," and a sob broke from Huldah's throat.
"We wouldn't hurt you, ma'am, for anything; we couldn't, we're dead-beat.  I haven't had anything
to eat since yesterday, and we've come miles and miles.  I don't want to come in, ma'am," she
pleaded, more and more eagerly, as the door remained rigidly closed, except for about three
inches.  "If only you'll give us a bit of bread.  I haven't got any money, but I'll give you
one of my baskets for it.  Oh, please, ma'am, don't turn us away!"  The tears began to rain
down her thin white cheeks.  She had borne all that she could bear, and she had not the strength
to keep them back any longer.

Dick, who could never bear to see his little mistress crying, pushed himself forward; first
he licked Huldah's hand, and then seated himself in front of her, as though to protect her
from the ogress who made her cry.  Something in the ogress's face, though, told Dick that she
was not a real ogress, and he looked up at her with a world of pleading in his big brown eyes,
and his long tail waving coaxingly.

"Poor doggie!" exclaimed the ogress.  "Poor Dick, are you hungry, too?  You do look tired and
thin.  Yes, you shall come in;" and the narrow stream of light became a wide river, which broke
over the pair and surrounding them drew them in, until they found themselves safely landed
in the cosiest little kitchen Huldah had ever seen.

It was really a very humble little kitchen, with signs of poverty everywhere, but to Huldah
it was a palace.  It was spotlessly clean, and as neat as a new pin, and to a child who had
spent the greater part of her life in a dirty, untidy caravan, this was a sign of superiority,
even of luxury.

To Dick the cleanness and neatness meant nothing, the rag mat before the hearth was the most
luxurious thing he had ever seen in the whole of his life, and he stretched his lanky aching
body on it with a deep sigh of perfect bliss, and promptly fell asleep.

Huldah and old Mrs. Perry meanwhile stood in the middle of the kitchen surveying each other.

"Sit down, child," said Martha, at last, "you look fit to drop." She spoke brusquely but not
unkindly.

"Thank you, ma'am," said Huldah, gratefully, and perched herself, with a long-drawn breath
of excitement, on the edge of the hard chair nearest the door.

"Not there.  Go and sit in the arm-chair by the fire-place. Would you like a cup of tea?"

"Oh!" gasped Huldah, almost too delighted to be able to find words to answer with.  There was
more pleasure, though, in her tone than any number of words could have conveyed.

"The kettle is on the boil.  I was just going to have a cup myself, before I went to bed."

"Oh, thank you, ma'am!" gasped Huldah, feebly, but again with a world of gratitude in her tone.

"Put down your load for a time, then, and rest your arms."  Then, as her eyes fell on the baskets
the child had been carrying, "Was it one of those you offered me for a bit of bread?"

"Yes, ma'am," answered Huldah, shyly.

"Well, you meant well, I don't doubt, but those baskets are worth more than a bit of bread.
They ought to sell for eighteenpence or two shillings each, I should say."

"Yes, ma'am, Aunt Emma always asks half-a-crown, and then comes down to two shillings or eighteenpence,"
said Huldah, innocently.

"Who's Aunt Emma?"

Huldah hesitated a moment, somewhat at a loss how to explain. "She isn't my real aunt, though
I calls her so.  She and Uncle Tom ain't any relation to me really.  They're called Smith,
and my name is Huldah Bate; but when mother died--"

"Haven't you got any mother?"

"No, ma'am, and father is dead too.  He died when I was too little to remember, and mother
earned her living by making baskets, and when I was big enough she taught me."

"How long ago did your mother die?" asked Mrs. Perry, more gently.

"Two years, ma'am, and when she died Aunt Emma and Uncle Tom said I was to go and live with
them.  They said mother had said I was to."

"Um!  Did your mother think so much of them, then?"

"No, ma'am.  They was always too rough for mother, they drinks a lot, and--and swears terrible,
and they'm always fighting."

"I wonder at your mother leaving you to such people to be took care of."

"I don't believe mother ever did," said Huldah, "she never told me so, anyway," and she burst
into bitter sobs; "but there wasn't anybody else there, and they told the parish orf'cer that
I was their little girl, and then they went away as fast as they could, and took me with them."

"Are they kind to you?"

"They beat me--they're always beating me, or Dick, or Charlie,-- Charlie is the old horse that
draws the van,--and I'd sooner be beaten myself than see them being knocked about.  We don't
ever get enough to eat, but that isn't so bad as the beatings."

"Poor child!  You both look as if you had never had enough to eat in your lives.  Did they
make baskets too?"

"No, ma'am, they can't.  They make clothes-pegs, and they sell brushes and mats, but my baskets
brought them in as much as a pound a week sometimes, and oh!" and she gasped at the thought,
"Uncle Tom will be angry, when he finds I don't come back!" and her eyes were full of terror
as she thought of his passion.

Mrs. Perry disappeared into the little scullery behind the kitchen, and opened the door of
the safe where she kept her scanty store of food.  There was very little in it but a ham-bone,
a few eggs, a loaf of bread, and a tiny bit of butter.  The bone she had, earlier in the day,
decided would make her some pea-soup for to-morrow's dinner, but she thought of poor Dick and
his hollow sides, and came to the conclusion that her soup would taste just as good without
the bone; and Dick, when he really grasped the fact that the whole of the big bone was really
meant for him, soon showed her that no ham-bone in the world had ever given more complete satisfaction.

"Could you eat an egg?"

Huldah stared blankly at her hostess.  She could not at first realise that the question was
meant for her.  "An egg!  Me!  Oh, yes, ma'am, but I don't want anything so--so good as that."
She could have eaten anything, no matter how plain, or poor, or unappetizing.  But an egg!
One of the greatest luxuries she had ever tasted.  "A bit of dry bread will be plenty good
enough.  Eggs cost a lot, and--and--"

"My hens lay eggs for me in plenty.  I don't ever have to buy one," said the old woman, proudly.
"I've got some fine hens."

"Do you keep a farm, ma'am?"

Mrs. Perry smiled and sighed.  "No, child; a few hens don't make a farm.  I had a cow at one
time, but all that's left is the house she lived in.  Now, draw over to the table and have
your supper."

At any other time Huldah would have been shy of eating before a stranger, for in the caravan
good manners were only a subject for sneers and laughter, and she remembered enough of her
mother's teaching to know how shocking to ordinary eyes Mr. and Mrs. Smith's behaviour would
have seemed.  To-night, though, she was too ravenously hungry for shyness to have much play.
She tried to remember all she could of what her mother had taught her, and got through fairly
creditably.

"Now," said Mrs. Perry, when that wonderful, glorious meal was at last ended, "where did you
think of going for the night?"

"I don't know," sighed Huldah, wistfully.  "I hadn't thought of anywhere perticler.  I daresay
there's a rick or a hedge we can lay down under.  I don't mind where I go, so long as Uncle
Tom don't find us."

"Well, I can't give you a bed here.  I've only this room and my bedroom, and--and--"  Mrs.
Perry did not like to explain that she was too nervous, and too doubtful of Huldah's honesty
to leave her alone in the kitchen, while she herself went to bed and to sleep. To her mind
all gipsies, and all gipsy children, were thieves, and though she was interested in Huldah,
and felt very sorry for her, she had, after all, only known her about an hour, and knew nothing
of her past history.  In her heart she could not as yet believe all her story, or bring herself
to trust her.

The child instinctively felt something of this distrust, and it hurt her.  Her eyes filled,
but she forced back the tears, and spoke out bravely.

"I shall do all right, thank you, ma'am.  We'll be going on again, now.  I ain't afraid of
nothing when I've got Dick with me, and--and thank you, ma'am, for all you've given us; but
I wish you'd 'ave one of my baskets, ma'am, please!  I can easy make another, and I'd be glad
if you would, please, ma'am."

Mrs. Perry felt a prick of conscience, and her heart melted. She could see that the child's
feelings were hurt, and that her self-respect made her anxious to pay for all they had received.

"If you wouldn't mind sleeping in the barn in the garden, you and your dog, you're welcome.
It's as clean as can be, and there's plenty of nice straw there, to make a comfortable bed
for you. You'd be under shelter there, and if so be as your uncle should come this way, he'd
never find you there."

Instead of conferring a favour, she found herself almost asking the child to stay, and to Huldah
the temptation was too great to be resisted.  To be safe from her uncle!  She felt she could
bear anything, if she could only for a few hours feel quite safe. She was so tired, too, so
dead-tired, she did not know, in spite of her brave words, how she could possibly drag her
weary body a step further.

A few moments later the front-door had been securely bolted, and Mrs. Perry, lantern in hand,
was conducting her two strange visitors out of the back door and down the garden.

"That's the fowls' house," she explained, flashing her lantern over the door of the little
building as they passed it, "and here is the barn."

She opened the door, and threw the lantern light all over the wooden shed.  It was spotlessly
clean, and sweet with the smell of the straw which was scattered about one end of it.  There
were some bundles and some loose straw lying on the ground.  Huldah sank down on one of the
bundles with a little cry of relief, while Dick burrowed delightedly in the loose straw.

"You won't be afraid, you think?"

"No, ma'am, thank you, not with Dick," she answered, bravely.

She did not feel quite so brave, though, when the light had gone, and she heard the house-door
bolted, and found herself and Dick shut in alone in the dark in that great empty strange place.
She did wish that Mrs. Perry had seen fit to leave them the lantern.  Rats loved straw, Huldah
knew, so did mice, and she was dreadfully afraid of both.  The moonlight shone in through the
sides of the barn, and Huldah had a feeling that eyes were at all the chinks, watching her.

To try to forget the rats and mice and not to see the eyes, she nestled down in the straw,
with one bundle at her head and another at her back, and hoped she would soon fall asleep and
forget everything. But though she was so tired, or, perhaps, because she was overtired, sleep
when it did come was not sound or pleasant.  Every time Dick rustled the straw, she awoke.
Every time a bird called or an owl hooted, she started up wide awake.  She woke once from a
dream of her uncle, with, as she thought, his voice echoing in her ear. Another time she felt
certain he was banging at the barn door, trying to get in, to beat her and Dick, and take them
both back.

"Oh, I wish it was morning!" she sighed, and sat up on her straw bed, to see if daylight was
beginning to dawn yet.

But all was dark still; even the moon had gone.  She was just about to lie wearily down again,
when a real, not a dream sound, caught her ear.  The sound of nailed boots on stones, and stealthy
footsteps.

"It really is someone climbing the wall and coming up the garden," she thought to herself,
and her mouth and throat grew dry with terror, and her heart beat suffocatingly.  "Dick!" she
gasped, in a low voice.  "Dick, they're coming, they've found us.  Listen!"

Dick raised himself on his haunches, with his ears cocked.  Huldah was seized with sudden fear
that he would growl, and so betray their hiding-place, for her uncle would recognise Dick's
growl in a moment. She laid her hand on his collar firmly.  "Quiet!" she commanded, firmly,
and knew that he would obey.  She tried to peer out through the chinks, but it was hard to
move without rustling the straw, and all without was black as pitch.

Then suddenly, quite close to her on the other side of the planking, sounded a whisper, and
Huldah never knew afterwards whether she was most frightened or relieved--frightened by the
nearness of somebody, or relieved that the somebody was not her "uncle."

"Bill, where's the sack?" the voice asked, impatiently.

"I dunno!" answered another voice, sourly.  "You had it.  I've cut my knee on that there wall;
I can feel the blood running down my leg."

"You always manages to do something," was all the sympathy Bill got. "We've got to 'ave the
sack, so you'd better find it.  How're we to carry the birds without it?   In our hats?"

"It's the fowls!" thought Huldah, thrilling with excitement. "They're going to steal the fowls.
Oh, they shan't!  The lady'll think it's me.  Oh, what can I do?  How can I tell her?  I must
stop them, somehow!"

Bill had gone back in search of the sack, and the other thief stood waiting for him.  Huldah
had time to think, but no plan came to her. She did not know her way, nor where to turn for
help; and if she screamed, they would only find her out, and knock her about. They would steal
the fowls all the same.  A slight movement beside her recalled her thoughts, and sent her spirits
up with a bound. "Dick! why, of course Dick would help her!"

Quick as thought she crept to the door, and with one hand on Dick's collar she gently raised
the latch with the other.  Bill had evidently found the sack, for the thieves were together
again; she heard them whispering.  One even seemed to be already fumbling with the latch of
the fowls' house door.

"Quick, Dick, catch them!" she whispered, excitedly.  "Go for them, Dick! bring them down!"
With one fierce yelp Dick was out of her grasp and out of her sight.

It had all happened so swiftly that the thieves were bewildered, dazed, and frightened almost
beyond power of speech or movement. They had heard nothing, and certainly had expected nothing,
yet suddenly, from somewhere quite near by, came a voice, and out of the darkness came a large
dog bounding upon them, growling savagely. For a second they were too frightened to move; then,
with an oath, they dashed across the garden, making for the wall they had come over.  Fast
though they went, Dick was after them and on them, and Bob, as well as Bill, knew what it was
to feel blood trickling down his leg.  Bob yelled, Bill groaned, Dick growled and snarled and
barked furiously with excitement.  The frightened hens, startled by the hubbub, added their
share to the uproar.

In the cottage a curtain was drawn back quickly from a window, and a white frightened face
stared out.  Huldah caught sight of it, and coming out of the shelter of the barn, raced eagerly
along the path to the house.

"It's all right," she cried, panting.  "It's all right, ma'am, some fellows come stealing your
fowls, but Dick's after them."

Dick was after them, but he could not capture them; he was but a young dog, and the enemy was
two to one.  A heavy kick sent him rolling over, just as the thieves reached the wall, and
before he could pick himself up again they were over it, and making good their escape.

At the sound of Dick's cry Huldah went flying back to the spot whence the sound came.  "Oh,
Dick, Dick, what have they done!" she cried, terrified.

Dick, though, was not one to make a fuss about anything.  Kicks he was well accustomed to.
Men, according to his experience, were given to kicking.  Limping heavily, but mightily pleased
with his fray, he came running up to her.  Huldah knelt down in the path beside him, and hugged
him to her.  "Oh, Dick!" she cried, anxiously, passing her little hand over him to feel for
any hurt.  "Poor Dick, you are always getting knocked about by somebody!"

But Dick was far less concerned than she was.  All that really troubled him was that his enemies
had escaped him, and had got off so lightly.

"Huldah! Huldah!" called a frightened voice from the doorway. "Whatever is happening?  Oh,
do come in, child, and bring Dick. I am terrified to be left alone!  Come in, both of you,
and shut the door;" and at the sound of her voice Dick gave up his frantic search for his enemies,
and limped quickly back.  When the lady who gave him the ham-bone called, she must never be
kept waiting!

CHAPTER III.

WHAT THE MORNING BROUGHT.

It was a very shaken, tremulous trio which stood and faced each other in the tiny kitchen,
after they had locked and bolted the door. Dick trembled with excitement and eagerness only,
but Mrs. Perry was really frightened.

"But what of my poor hens!" she gasped, as Huldah poured out the adventures of the night. 
"Will the thieves come back again? What can I do?  There's twelve of them; I can't bring them
all indoors, and yet--oh, poor dears, and they so tame, and knowing me so well.  I'd sooner
see them all dead than in the hands of such men; and they'll be so frightened."

"They're all safe enough, ma'am," said Huldah, consolingly. "The thieves didn't as much as
open the door before Dick was on them, and they won't be coming back here again in a hurry;
they'll never feel sure but what Dick's under the wall waiting for them."

Mrs. Perry bent down, and patted Dick's head gratefully.  It was the first time she had actually
touched him.  "Good dog," she said, warmly.  "Oh, you good doggie, to protect a strange old
woman and her belongings!" and Dick was overcome with pride and gratitude for her condescension.

"Oh, I am glad it has all ended so well," she exclaimed, with a deep sigh of thankfulness.
"What with the shouting and the barking and confusion, I couldn't make out anything, or hear
what you said, and I thought for certain they'd got away with the poor things;" and she patted
Dick's head again, to his great delight and Huldah's. "I must sit down, I am that shaken,"
and she crept over to a chair and dropped into it wearily, "and I am sure you must be too,
child. I wish the fire hadn't gone out; it seems chilly now, for all 'twas such a hot day,--at
least, I am chilly."

"Let me light up the fire for you?" asked Huldah, eagerly.  "You do look cold, ma'am.  Shall
I make you a cup of tea, or get you some milk or something?"

The scene they had just passed through seemed to have broken down some barrier, and drawn them
as close together as though they had known each other a long time.

Martha Perry hesitated a moment, though not now because she distrusted Huldah.  She was thinking,
ought she to afford it?" Yes, child," she answered, at last.  "I don't believe I could sleep
if I went to bed as I am, I feel all unstrung and chilled."  Then her mind went back to the
thought which troubled her most--"I wonder if the fowls will be really all right," she mused,
anxiously.

"Oh yes, ma'am." Huldah had no doubts on that point.  "Those fellows would be afraid to come
back.  Dick did give them a scare, springing out of the dark on them like that, and they're
too hurt about the legs to want to walk any further than they can help, yet awhile!"

"Oh yes, of course," in accents of great relief, "I'd forgotten. They wouldn't want to come
and face Dick again, and they wouldn't know but what he was mine, and always living here."

A bright idea came to Huldah.  "Would you like me to let Dick out into the garden again.  He'd
see that nobody came into it. Nobody wouldn't dare touch anything with him there, I know!"

The suggestion evidently pleased Mrs. Perry, and relieved her greatly.  "Now that would be
a comfort," she said, gratefully. "I'd feel ever so safe then.  On a warm night like this he
can't hurt, can he?"

Huldah laughed.  "Dick doesn't know what 'tis to sleep in," she said. "The most he ever had
was a sack thrown down under the van, unless when Charlie was put in a stable, and they'd let
Dick go in too, but Uncle Tom liked best to have him about, to guard the van."

All the time she was talking she was laying in the fire quickly and deftly.  Mrs. Perry watched
her interestedly.  She felt the comfort of having someone cheerful to speak to; and when she
remembered that but for this little stray waif she would have been alone now, and her hen-house
robbed, her heart was very full of gratitude.

"Miss Rosamund will blame me when she hears about it," she said, presently.  "She was always
telling me I ought to have a strong lock on the hen-house door.  She said it was tempting folk
to be dishonest,--not to have anything but just the latch, and me known to keep good fowls
always.  'Twas Miss Rose that gave them to me," she explained.  "I mean, she gave me a sitting
of her prize eggs, and every one hatched out."

"Oh my!" exclaimed Huldah, who had filled the kettle, and was now waiting for it to boil. 
She was immensely interested in all she saw and heard, and there seemed so much to see and
hear in this new life into which she had suddenly found her way.  "Is Miss Rose a--a lady?"
She only put the question in the hope of leading Mrs. Perry on to talk more.

"A lady!  I should think she was, indeed!  One of the best that ever lived!  'Twould be a good
thing for this world if there were more like her."

Huldah listened intently.  She wondered if she should ever see this wonderful Miss Rose, and
find out what it was that made Mrs. Perry speak so warmly about her.  She thought it must be
fine to be thought much of by anybody so superior as Mrs. Perry.

"I think you are the kindest lady in the world," she said, impulsively, looking up at her hostess
with shy, grateful eyes. "Would Miss Rose have taken me and Dick in, if we had come to her
house like we did to yours?"

"That she would!" declared Mrs. Perry, emphatically, "and 'twas the thought of what she would
do that made me do it."

"I'd love to see Miss Rose," said Huldah, eagerly.  "I wonder if I ever shall!" but the kettle
boiled at that moment, and Mrs. Perry's mind was taken up with the making of the tea.

While they sat on each side of the hearth, drinking their tea and eating their crusts of bread,
she wished Miss Rose could know about this little waif, who seemed really not a bad little
waif, but honest and very thoughtful and kind.  She wanted her advice as to what to do about
her.  Already her feelings towards the child had changed so much that she did not like to think
of sending her away in the morning, to wander on alone again, with no home, no money or food,
and no protection but Dick.

Dick might be killed, or stolen, and then the poor little soul would be alone in the world.
Huldah looked up eagerly at her hostess more than once, but, though she was longing to ask
some more questions, she did not like to interrupt her while she gazed with such grave, thoughtful
eyes into the fire.

At last Mrs. Perry roused herself from her thoughts, with a tired sigh, and brought her eyes
back to Huldah again.  "Have a bit more bread," she urged, kindly, seeing that the little brown
hand was empty.  "You must be hungry."

Huldah was always hungry, but she was not accustomed to any notice being taken of the fact.
"No, thank you, ma'am," she said, politely. She had already guessed that her kind protector
was very poor, and she knew well what a difference every slice made to a loaf, so she said,
"No, thank you, ma'am," though she could really have eaten the whole of the nice brown crusty
top.  But she was more interested in Miss Rose than in her own appetite.

"Does Miss Rose live near here?" she asked.

Mrs. Perry smiled.  "Why, how funny!" she exclaimed.  "I was thinking of Miss Rose too.  Yes;
she lives at the vicarage, and that's a little way further on in the main road.  If you hadn't
turned down this lane, you'd have come to it about half-a-mile further on. I wonder you didn't
see the church tower as you came along."

"It was too dark," said Huldah.  "Oh, I was glad when I saw your light shine out," she added,
impetuously.  "I didn't know what to do or where to go, and we were so tired!  I very nearly
lay down under the hedge, 'cause I felt as if I couldn't drag another step."

"It'd have been better for you if you hadn't seen it, but had gone on till you came to the
vicarage."

"I don't think so," said Huldah, emphatically.  "P'raps the servants would have driven us off,--anyway,
they couldn't have been kinder than you was--"

"It wouldn't have been better for me if you'd gone on," added Mrs. Perry, gratefully.  "I shouldn't
have had any hens now, if it hadn't been for you, and I'd have been scared to death.  I think
I will go up to bed now," she added presently, in a weary voice.  "I had thought I wouldn't
go back again, but I am that tired."

"You do look tired," rejoined Huldah, sympathetically.  Her own little body was aching all
over, and she was so weary she could gladly have lain down anywhere and slept, but it never
occurred to her to mention the fact.  "Dick'll mind the garden, so don't you worry about that."

"Can you sleep on the sofa, do you think?"

"Oh yes, ma'am!" cried Huldah, rapturously, gazing at the hard black horse-hair covered thing
as though it were the most luxurious couch in the world.

"I'll give you my big shawl, to wrap yourself up in, and you can use that cushion there for
a pillow."

"Thank you, ma'am; but I think," she added, anxiously, "I'll run out first, and see that Dick's
all right.  You can bolt the door after me while I'm out."

Martha Perry did not do that, though.  She stood there with the open door in her hand, and
watched almost affectionately the little brown figure run down the garden path, and disappear
in the gloom.

"Put Dick in the barn to sleep," she called after Huldah.  "He'll be nice and comfortable there;"
but Dick, wise dog, was already there, snugly curled up in the straw, and as happy as a dog
could be. The hens, too, had settled down to sleep again in their house, and all was safe,
so Huldah ran back again contentedly; and Martha Perry welcomed her as gladly as though they
were old friends, and when she shut the door and bolted themselves in, it was with a sigh of
relief that she had this little companion.

A few minutes later the old woman was stretched out comfortably in her bed, and the child was
rolled up snugly on the hard sofa, and silence once more fell on cottage and garden, broken
only by an occasional sleepy cluck, cluck of the hens, as they moved on their perches, or a
whimper from Dick, as in his dreams he lived over again his rout of the enemy.

Huldah did not dream of thieves, or hens, or anything else. She just slept, and slept, a heavy,
dreamless sleep, unconscious of everything.  The hard sofa galled her poor, thin, aching body,
the round hard pillow gave her a crick in the neck, but neither of them could make themselves
felt through the sleep which held her fast in merciful unconsciousness.

It was broad daylight, and the sun had been shining for a long time when at last she woke with
a start, and sprang up, wondering where she was, and what had happened.  Then by degrees recollection
came back to her, and she began to wonder what she could do.  The old clock in the corner pointed
to seven, but there was no sound of movement in the house.  Huldah was afraid to get up and
move about, lest Mrs. Perry should suspect her of being at some wickedness; and she was not
sorry to lie still, for her limbs ached, and she felt very, very tired, so she stretched herself
out on her hard couch, and gave herself up to studying the little kitchen, and all that was in it.

It was very wonderful, she thought, and very lovely.  There were some dark green wooden chairs,
and an arm-chair, and a little round table, scrubbed to spotless whiteness.  Above her head,
on a window-ledge stood some geraniums in full bloom, and on a row of shelves let into the
wall stood a large Bible, with a crochet mat over it, and some other books, some vases and
ornaments, and a box covered with shells. The only other things to see were the grandfather's
clock in the corner, some well-polished bright things on the mantel-piece, a pair of brass
candlesticks, a couple of tea-caddies, and a pair of snuffers on a tray.

There were some pictures on the wall, and an almanac.  One picture showed two beautiful horses
ploughing a field, a white horse and a brown one, the other was of the same two horses going
slowly home, at the end of the day's work.  The sight of the white horse brought Charlie to
Huldah's mind, and filled her eyes with tears.

"Oh, if only Charlie was here too!" she thought, "and if only he looked like that horse there!"

There was indeed all the difference in the world between the well-fed, well-groomed horse in
the picture, with his erect head, his bright eyes and glossy coat, and poor old Charlie, with
his bones showing distinctly through his rough, neglected coat, his drooping head and sad eyes!

Huldah looked and looked again at the pictures; she thought they were perfectly beautiful;
but by-and-by she began to fidget a little. She was tired of lying quiet, and the silence and
stillness worried her.  She slid off the sofa, and sat on the edge of it, wondering if she
might move, if she might go and see Dick, or clean up the grate and light the fire.

Presently there was a whine at the back door.  Dick had come in search of her.  She stood up
and quietly made a step or two towards the scullery and the back door, wondering if she would
be taking a great liberty to let him in.  She did long to.  And then, while she stood hesitating
she heard a voice calling weakly down the stairs, "Little girl--Huldah, are you there?"

Huldah, greatly relieved, sprang to the foot of the stairs.  She was glad to have the silence
broken at last.  "Yes ma'am.  It was only Dick whining to come in."

"Let him in, then come up to me, will you?"

Ordering Dick to stay below, Huldah mounted the stairs, full of awe. She had not been allowed
up them before.  She thought the little winding white staircase was wonderful, and oh, how
clean it all was!

At the top was a landing about a yard square, and an open door. Through the doorway she saw
an old-fashioned bed with pretty flowered frills and curtains, and lying on the bed was Mrs. Perry.

"Come in, child," she said, feebly.  "I've been calling to you for ever so long, but I couldn't
make you hear.  I expect you were very tired, and slept heavy."

"I've been awake for a good bit," said Huldah, "but I didn't like to move about till you come.
I wish I'd heard you.  Did you want me?"

"Yes, I'm feeling very bad.  I think I must have got a chill last night, or else the fright
upset me."

"Oh, I am sorry," cried Huldah, with genuine feeling.  Mrs. Perry really did look very white
and ill, and Huldah felt quite alarmed. "Can I get you something?  What can I do?  Shall I
light the fire?" she asked, eagerly.

"Yes, if you will, I'd be very much obliged.  I'd like a cup of tea, as hot as I can drink
it, and," pointing to some flannel lying on the bed, "if you could make that very hot, and
bring it up to me, I'd be glad.  Perhaps heat'll ease the pain a bit."

"I'll be as quick as I can," said Huldah, eagerly, turning to hurry downstairs.  "Is there
anything else?"

"Oh my, yes! there's the fowls; they'll be wanting their breakfast. It's all put ready for
them in a pan in the scullery, if you'll give it to them.  Don't let them out into the garden."

"I'll see to that," said Huldah, cheerfully.

"Then when they're out eating their food, go into the house, and see if there's any eggs in
the nests."

"Yes, ma'am, and please may I borrow the loan of the bucket, to have a wash?  I'm feeling all
dusty and dirty."

Mrs. Perry smiled, in spite of her pain.  "Yes, of course. You'll find a basin and soap, and
a rough towel in the scullery, too. I'm glad you reminded me."

Huldah slipped down the stairs as blithe as a bird.  This was keeping house in real earnest,
and she loved it.  She set to work to light the fire and tidy the stove first, then she went
and fed the hens, and came back triumphantly, carrying three large eggs.  When she had shown
these to Mrs. Perry, and discussed their size and beauty--and surely there never had been such
eggs found before--she went down and had her wash, and oh, how she did enjoy it!  She wished
she had a clean frock or apron to put on, too.  But when she remembered all she had got, she
felt ashamed of herself, for even thinking of wanting anything more.

In the scullery was a sweeping-brush, and the sight of it tempted her to sweep up the kitchen.
She opened the door wide, to let in the sunshine and fresh air and the sweet scent of flowers,
and then she went sweeping away, not only the doorstep, but the tiled path down the garden
to the gate.  For the moment she had forgotten her fear of being discovered.  All here seemed
so different, so safe and peaceful, and far away from her old unhappy life.

The sun was shining radiantly, drying up the dew on the flowers, and making the red-tiled path
glow warmly; it seemed to fill the garden, the cottage, and all Huldah's world with cheerfulness.
By the time she had finished sweeping, the kettle was singing, so Huldah got the teapot and
warmed it.  She even warmed the cup and saucer too, in her anxiety that Mrs. Perry should have
her tea as hot as possible. Then she cut a slice of bread as neatly as she could and toasted it.

Dick was lying out in the sun, gnawing at the remains of his ham-bone, as happy as a dog could
be.  Huldah glanced out at him every now and then while she was toasting the bread, and tried
to realise that they were the same two who only yesterday morning were thrashed so unmercifully--she,
for giving Dick some bread and butter, and Dick for eating it, after which had followed that
dreadful scene when her uncle Tom had kicked poor old helpless Charlie so cruelly, partly because
the poor old horse moved slowly, but chiefly because he knew that it would hurt Huldah more
than any beating or starving of herself could.

It hurt her so greatly that she felt she could not bear it any longer, and then and there made
up her mind to run away.  Half of Charlie's kicks and blows were given him, she knew, because
they hurt and angered her.  Perhaps, she thought, if she were gone life would become easier
for him.  So she went,--and that was only yesterday, and the only pang of feeling or remorse
that she felt for what she had done was the loss of Charlie.

CHAPTER IV.

MISS ROSE.

"Do you think you could find your way to the vicarage?"

Huldah had given Mrs. Perry her breakfast, and taken her own, and now had gone up again to
remove the cup and plate, and ask what more she could do.  She was longing to make herself
useful, that she might show how grateful she was for all that had been done for her.

"Yes, I'm sure I could," she answered, readily.

"Miss Rose said she'd come to me any time I wanted her, and I feel I want her now, but I don't
know how to let her know, unless you will go for me."

"I'll go," said Huldah, eagerly.  "I'd like to." Then, with sudden recollection of her uncle
and aunt, her heart sank.  "I--I don't suppose I'd meet uncle that way, but--but there'd be
the chance of that, any way I went," she added, trying to be brave and sensible.

Mrs. Perry looked anxious too.  "I don't s'pose he could have got so far by this time, even
if he came this way.  You see, he'd have to keep to the road with the van, and you cut across
country."

"Oh, it's sure to be all right," said Huldah, more bravely, determined not to be afraid.  "I
won't take Dick, though, if you'll keep him, ma'am. It also prevented individuals from the Cabildo, refrain European Mayors
choice, because if this was happening, would not last eight days, it would rise and would be a victim
of his anger, being thieves, and that to avoid such a disastrous event, had to name just Mayors
Don Juan de Dios and Don Jacinto Rodriguez.

The Corregidor, careful with these public threats and insolent pretensions: he acted vigilante
pesquiza in the investigation and the authors, but more accurate measures and judicial as practiced
extrajudicial, could never know the truth to punish offenders, In order to keep everyone quiet
and good harmony, from always tended income to his district.

Come election day, by the year 1781, proposed to appoint the members sugetos meritorious and honest,
of good character and who love justice, so that they could charges play correctly, with the
maturity and trial prescribed by law, and required the critical circumstances in which the
kingdom was. To this end they proposed to D. José Miguel Llano and Valdez, Patricia, D. Joaquin
Rubis de Celis, and D. Manuel de Mugrusa, Europeans, with a view of the rod to come out of the house
of Rodriguez, who pretended it hereditary, and that neither they nor any of its partial and
domestic, were chosen because they made Sugetos 18 years that these were possessed of those jobs,
never allowing others were appointed by the unbridled ambition of government that ruled them,
and also for avoid injustice and violence estorsiones, titled egecutaban judges in all class
of people, valid from unlimited despotism which had acquired, which
protected all sorts of vices, which vitiated their dependents and
servants.

Rodriguez this transcended by the idea, prevented some changes and differences to the election day, however
prevailed in favor of justice, and left elected those proposed by the Mayor, who loathed cruelly
Rodriguez, the dissimilarity customs and birth and not being able to hide the poison that
locked their hearts, to see they had taken the command, as so many years had usurped, took
their mask to be seen to clearly senses against him. D. Jacinto was to die for with vomiting that
caused the anger of the snub, and D. John left the village for his wit haste, leaving at home
warned that none of their customers come out to the runs bulls, who regularly held to mark
the new Mayors to the public, or that he These lend them anything they desired used for soft drinks.
In this day began to discover the league that he had formed with them the priest of the parish
church. It happened then that was the custom from time immemorial, which finished the election, and
confirmed by the mayor in the chapter house, spent all of the major church council to hear
the Mass of Thanksgiving, lobbyists went to the pia demonstration, but being as to the church
doors, went to meet the sacristan to say that there was no mass, because none had given alms.

Things
were in this critical state, when the news of the death of Tomas
Catari; and believing the mayor of Paria, D. Manuel Winery, which
removed this seditious disturber of the public tranquility, it would
be easy sugetar the province, collecting taxes and real distribution,
determined to go into it with weapons and people.

Asked for this to help you with Urrutia soldiers, who denied, preventing consequences could not
be good: but evil Bodega recommended, gathered 50 men, paid at his expense, and set off to
the people of Challapata but where he and his companions, paid with his life Thin determination.

With this, the Indians were persuaded Challapata, Condo, poop and other towns immediate, the mayor
of Oruro to the Paria had assisted with weapons and people to punish,
from that day threatened the town and the mayor, protesting desolate,
and kill them all its inhabitants.

Agregóse to this, a Franciscan monk named Fray Bernardino Gallegos at that time was as chaplain
on the plantations of D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, overlapping his malicious plan, said he had heard that
the Indians were ready to Challapata Oruro to invade, and that the main reason that impelled them
was to know that daily egercicio therefore considered appropriate to be suspended, for without more
care than this, sosegarian are the spirits of those rebels because of his resentment only nacia
that provision. The mayor, and was not given assent to the notices that religious, or because
they penetrate the interior, did not alter his measures, that were born smoothly continuous and
care, because, resentful of this, did not stop in front dire news spread that moments threatened
by the insult offered by the surrounding Indians. In this conflict be doubted that the means
should be chosen: there were no weapons or ammunition; hacíanse public councils and secrets,
nothing is resolved for lack of money in the box of their own, or to put it more property, no such
case, because many years ago had taken possession of their fund D. Jacinto Rodriguez. Nor could
go to the royal treasury, because he resisted the officers, optional claiming not to be drawn
amount, without order expresses the superiority; and last resort, it was thought that the neighbors
contribute with a donation, nor took effect, the extreme poverty in which they were. In these
troubles manifested the zeal of D. Treasurer Salvador Parrilla, giving 2,000 pesos in cash for
their own interests, to that the militia were quartered, and ammunition were prevented in the meantime
was given party to the hearing, to deliberate what they had fit. With this amount was begun preparations,
they stood at 300 salary men were named captains and other officers, to the service: D. Manuel
Serrano, formed a company of the most infamous mob of people, and appointed his lieutenant Don
Nicolas de Herrera, brooding genius, that was after one of the most outstanding in this tragic
scene.

And the troops quartered, many dissensions arose due to the low subordination of soldiers, no
official law on the supply of the Prest said, and other reasons, that originated, but by the
disposition of the spirits, that the grounds grievances.

Day 9, at ten o'clock at night, some soldiers left the barracks of the company Serrano crying
out for relief to others, and asked the cause, said aloud Sebastian Payer: - "Friends, countrymen
and peers, be certain that you try the most treacherous betrayal against us by the escutcheons:
comunicárseme this news just for my daughter in any Sometimes we
can best provide clear evidence of our love of country, but in this:
do not deem in all our lives, sacrifiquémoslas happy to defend freedom,
converting all humility and performance, we have had with the Spanish
Europeans, anger and wrath, and end up once with this damn race.

"They immediately spread throughout the town this reasoning, and motion in militia companies that
were not neglecting D. Nicolas Herrera stoke the fire, telling everywhere with more vivid colors,
his malicious intent might suggest, the conspiracy of the Europeans.

Paying Sebastian servant had been many years in the mines of both Rodriguez, and in that Today went
to them in the evenings with D. Jacinto, where this was coming down drunk, badly that commonly
suffered. Among other productions of drunkenness, came up with the nonsense that the mayor wanted
him hanged, together with his brothers, Don Manuel Herrera and others neighbors. The heat of chicha,
which had altered the payer, it did facilitate the murder that after egecutaron, treating it
with D. Nicolas de Herrera, often processed sugeto a thief and highwayman public. In that no
one was satisfied that many Europeans were wealthy, but he and some
of his wicked companions were deposited many bars and bags of silver
coin in the face of D. José Endeiza, whom he considered more of 50.000
pesos effective.

As this individual was so kind, went to his table many friends, too wealthy, and agreed that both
were provided with travel to Potosi, came together with all his wealth to live in the house
where he was staying. The flow dam so large was the main origin of this unfortunate event. D.
Nicolas Herrera, who wanted more than all egecutar came for plunder, published in all Paying
over the reasoning, and continuing its proceedings, entered the house of D. Casimiro Delgado,
who at the time was playing with D. Manuel Amezaga, Challacollo cure, and Fray Antonio Lazo,
the Order of San Agustin. They were all thrown to the novelty, and resolved to go to warn the militia
that threatened misfortune: determination, indeed, improper sugetos those, and has many overtones
of seditious, because without thinking of consequences went to the barracks, called Captain
D. Bartolomè Menacho and to others, and gave notice of what they knew, making prevention of
to beware. With this and the voice of treason on the part of Europeans that Herrera had spread
throughout the town, came flooding troops to the barracks, mothers, wives and sisters of those
who were quartered, about wearing weapons to defend himself and others with the most tender voices,
asked with tears dejasen the recess. To this he added the soldiers, incited by Payer, were persuaded
it was true the conspiracy: some claimed that the mayor had prevented a mine to blow them suddenly,
others shouted that they had no doubt, because he had Arrimadas stairs suddenly rob the yard
of his home. All was confusion, disorder and confusion without any basis, for the wickedness
of these and other tantalizing spices invented seditious to shake things down. In this line spent
the night in continuous shock, and said the day after 10, abandoned the barracks: one addressed to
his houses, and others gathered by Payer, presented to D. Jacinto Rodriguez, protesting that
as his Lieutenant Colonel debian communicate what is premeditated against them, they were ready
to obey blindly, thus giving a misleading diagnostic test of the subordination he had, who,
upon hearing the complaints, he told them not to return to the barracks, and remaining with some
confidence, secretly warned them rioted that night, and they said the manner in which it had
to practice.

Had left days before the town of Fray Bernardino Challapata Gallegos, the Order of St. Francisco,
under the pretext of liberating some soldiers who took D. Manuel de la Bodega, the who were
hiding in priest's house, but his real purpose was to convene the the Indians for that day. D.
In the same distributed Jacinto to its black, and some of its raised by the rooms and people
immediately, for with the help of these, bending forces and make his attempt, mounted his horse,
went to the Cerro de las Minas, where together with all Indians, mulattos and mestizos, who
worked in them and gave them orders that precisely go down by the Cerro de Conchopata to the
town after nightfall. Everything egecutó as was prevented, starting with the noise of the peons mining
in that place, at the appointed time. To better ensure the premeditated action, walking the
streets and squares, an officer of the Menacho company called D. José Asurdui, publishing was
certain magistrate's betrayal and Europeans, so brazenly, that compelled
one to rebuke, saying: "Only a man of little understanding could utter
this nonsense, you are persuaded that the sheriff accompanied only
by 30 to 40 Europeans, are considered able to resist and kill more
5,000 men who have the villa, this was the same as an ant trying to
cope a lion.

"But the principles were different from that riot, to no avail these solid reason to restrain,
rather it increased the corridors on street corners and public square, growing care for having
found a piece of letter of Fray Bernardino Gallego, in which he warned his brother, Brother
Feliciano, which are bound the night of 10 the town would be invaded by the Indians Challapata,
but that did not have care, that the end life was to remove the mayor and officers. These Indians
did not appear that night, and learn the truth, many days after it was learned they did not
think to come by then, and scheme had only been to increase the fear and confusion.

At 4 pm he ordered the mayor to play call for the militia came together, in indeed obeyed, still
very few people were needed, but not with the fact going into the barracks, and if they stay
divided into pieces by the corners of the square talking to each of the alleged treason, and what
they had to practice, and not neglecting Paying their commission, recalled the events of Jose Gabriel
Tupac-Amaru, supporting behavior against the Sovereign, the humiliations suffered from bad government
ministers, the unbearable breasts, which by reason of the war with the British, imposed on
the people, and other reasons effective to drive the spirits at last that had been proposed. The
mayor, tried to reduce them, and gently, and with threats, but nothing could, and could only achieve
this we offer, would remain in the square, waiting for the Indians who threatened to invade the
town that night stay and no means to employ, was invited to sleep with them, and when is verified
the conspiracy of the Europeans, the first sacrifice his life rather than allow none of the
soldiers perished. But as missing and the right, and begin to discover your evil intention,
far from producing the good effects that are promised in this submissive offer only served to
act as tyrants more. Rogábales humbly, and tried to dissuade alleged complaints with the Europeans,
he said to them that everything was false and fabricated by malice
of those who persuaded them otherwise, but more angry with these means
of gently, began to manage their slings, rehearsing the way she had
to use them.

  Such a little thing would rouse their anger, and when they were angry they
did not mind hurting those who had offended them, or even injuring them very greatly."

"Oh!" cried Huldah, looking disappointed.

"Now, little brownie, before I go I want you to trust me, and to be quite frank and open, and
not be afraid, for I want to be your friend.  I want you to tell me all about yourself and
your past life, and where you came from, and why you and Dick are quite alone in the world.
Will you?  I want to help you, and do what is best for both of you, but until I know all I
can do nothing."

"You won't send us back to Uncle Tom, will you miss?" she cried, her face paling, her eyes
wide with fear.  "I'll tell you everything,-- I--I want to, but if you send us back to Uncle
Tom, he'll pretty nigh beat us to death, me and Dick, I know he will!"  And at the mere thought
of it she broke down and sobbed so violently that it was long before Miss Rose could soothe
her, or calm the trembling of the half-starved, bruised little body.

She herself was shocked by the terror with which the mere thought of returning to her uncle
and aunt filled the child; and her heart ached as she realised what she must have endured to
bring her to such a state, for it was plain to see that Huldah was naturally a spirited, brave
little creature.

In her own mind, Miss Carew determined then and there that such persons were not fit guardians
for any child, and never with her consent should Huldah be sent back to be again at their mercy.
Her life would be one of greater suffering even than before. She shuddered at the thought of
the blows and abuse and hunger which would be her lot.  The hunger for love and kindness, too,
which, now she had had a glimpse of both, would be even greater than her hunger for food, and
even less likely to be gratified.  No--oh no!--Huldah should never face such a fate, as long
as she could help her. She would seek the protection of the law first, she decided; but, in
the meantime, until the law was necessary, she herself would do her best to make her life happy
and useful and good.  So much was due to the child.

Everyone whose life was happy, and full of love and peace and comfort, owed some share of her
blessings to those who had none,--and surely here was one to whom a large share was owing.

CHAPTER V.

SURPRISES.

The confession had been made, the story told, and, to her unspeakable joy and relief, Huldah
had not been sent to Uncle Tom or to the workhouse.  The latter fate she had dreaded even more
than the former, for if she had been sent to the workhouse she certainly would have had to
part with Dick; whereas, if she had gone back to the caravan, she would have had both him and
Charlie, and she would rather endure hunger and beatings than lose Dick.

She had, though, escaped both fates, and life for the time seemed to Huldah almost too beautiful
to be anything but a dream, for it had been arranged that both she and Dick were to stay on
for the present with Martha Perry in the cottage.  Since the night of the attempted robbery
Mrs. Perry had been very ailing and nervous.  She could not bear Dick to leave the house, when
once twilight began to fall, and she would not have stayed there at all at night without him.
She had grown to rely on the lanky yellow creature as though he had been a man.  No harm, she
felt, could come to her or her hens, as long as Dick was about the house or garden.

She needed company and help too, so Huldah was to stay on, to keep the cottage tidy, and run
the errands, and be at hand, in case Mrs. Perry was ill again.

A tiny room, which was scarcely more than a cupboard or a 'lean-to' jutting out over the scullery,
was transformed into a bedroom for Huldah.  A little iron bed was sent down from the vicarage,
and sheets and blankets, a chair, and even a little square looking-glass to hang on the wall.
Huldah was in a perfect turmoil of glad excitement.  She thought her room perfectly beautiful,
and from the little window she could look right over the back garden, and away to a great stretch
of country beyond.

"I don't know what to do for a chest of drawers for you," said Mrs. Perry, thoughtfully; "you
ought to have something to put your clothes in."  But Huldah pooh-poohed the idea.

"Oh, I shan't want anything," she said, cheerfully; "you see I haven't got any clothes."

"Ah, but wait," said Mrs. Perry, knowingly, then stopped abruptly, and said no more.  Huldah
did not understand.  "If I can sell some baskets, I'll be able to get an apron or two," she
said, gravely. "I'd like fine to have some, but I could keep them on my chair."

Mrs. Perry smiled.  "A box would be better.  If I could get you a nice big box, that would
do for the time, wouldn't it?"

"Oh yes, that would do grand,"  agreed Huldah, readily, "but don't you worry about it, ma'am.
I've got to make my baskets first and sell them, and then I'll have the aprons to make; there
won't be any need to worry till I've got them," she added, in her old-fashioned thoughtful
way.  "Wouldn't it be lovely, ma'am," she added, a moment later, "to have a new frock, a whole
real new one?"  It took a moment for such a possibility to even enter her head.  "A blue one,"
she added, revelling in it, now it had come, "and a blue hat, too! Oh my!"  She looked at Mrs.
Perry with clasped hands and eyes full of rapture.  "I've never had a new frock or hat, not
in all my life. I suppose some people do?"

"Yes, some do," agreed Mrs. Perry, gravely.  Then a bright smile passed over her face, and
her eyes lighted up almost as eagerly as Huldah's had, a moment before.  Miss Carew's pony-cart
had come jingling down the lane, and had drawn up before the garden gate.

Huldah sprang forward gladly to open the door, but Mrs. Perry was at it first.  "I will go,"
she said, hastily, "I understand Miss Rose wants me."

Huldah, puzzled and disappointed, did not move another step. Through the open door she saw
the dear fat pony, and longed to pat him; she saw Miss Rose smiling and talking, and longed
to be there to receive one of her smiles.  She saw her too lifting boxes and bundles out of
the pony-cart, and piling them in Mrs. Perry's arms.

"Why can't I go out and help?" she asked herself.  Everyone was out there, even Dick, and she
felt forlorn and left out.  Then she saw Miss Carew fasten the pony to the railings by his
strap, and, picking up the last of the boxes, follow Mrs. Perry up the garden.

"Good morning, brownie," she said, brightly, and her voice and smile drove the "left out" feeling
from Huldah's heart in a moment.

"I am trying to pretend to be a good fairy to-day, but I am too big and clumsy for the part."

Huldah gazed wonderingly, not understanding.

"I wanted you to have some new clothes, brownie, so I waved my wand,--and here they are."

"New--clothes!" gasped Huldah, "for me!"  She looked round, and caught sight of Mrs. Perry's
face, wreathed in glad smiles. "But I never have any, miss, I was telling Mrs. Perry so as
you drove up.  Old ones is plenty good enough for me.  I should be afraid to wear new ones,
for fear of spoiling them."

"Then you must learn to, little brownie.  Oh, you have lots to learn yet.  There's only one
thing I am sorry for, you won't be a brownie any longer, nor yet a fairy dressed in green";
and with the same she whisked the cover off the big box she had been carrying, and there lay
neatly folded three little plain print frocks, one lavender, one pink, and one blue.

Huldah cried aloud in sheer amazement.  She had never seen anything so pretty in her life.
Underneath the frocks were some plain holland aprons.  Huldah began to fear it was all a beautiful
dream, from which she would awaken presently.

"Open that other box, please, Mrs. Perry," said Miss Rose, briskly; and in that one was a neat
sun-hat, with a black ribbon bow on it, and beneath the hat were two little pink cotton petticoats,
some calico garments, some stockings and handkerchiefs.

Huldah by that time was in such a state of excitement, she could no longer exclaim, she could
hardly breathe, and when the last of the parcels was opened, and disclosed a pair of good boots
and a pair of slippers, the tears which had gradually been welling up in her eyes fell over,
and with a sob she threw her arms round Mrs. Perry and buried her face on her breast.

"Oh, it's too much, it's too much, I can't take it all!  I can't do anything for anybody, and
I can't pay for nothing.  I haven't got any money, and you mustn't give me such a lot--"

"Huldah, dear," said Miss Rose, softly, laying a gentle hand on the little girl's shaking shoulders,
"You have what is better than money. You have a kind, willing heart, and a wise little head,
and these are of more value than money, for no money can buy them, but you have given them
both to us all this time, asking no return.  And you know, dear, brownies are always repaid
in this way.  You can soon pay for these things, by taking care of Mrs. Perry, doing all you
can to help her, and making her happy and comfortable.  Then, with your basket-making you will
be able to earn enough to clothe yourself in the future, and perhaps help others as well. In addition,
Fish the big liberal Union believed in the revolution was a guarantee that this would not dangerous
roads. He expected quiet and earnings, and had told setembrinos' Now 'll see how you behave. I think
what we will do the same, because the country not help them ...». And what a happy coincidence!
Almost all individuals who composed the Board were his friends. Some had to kinship, ie that
they were somewhat Fish. The Provisional Government also lacked friends and kin, and wherever
my friend turned his eyes, saw fish-faces. And before that happens, we call this philosophy
History.

My repeated requests did not deter Bringas of its intention to leave the house. His wife, who came
into my office to thank me the day of the move, she said she had taken a very modest house,
but they would make a better one, because she could not live in a slum close and higher than
the tower of Santa Cruz. Bringas earnings, earnings Paquito! This was truly an economic cataclysm
bringuístico, not induced to think in grandeur. But one way or another, the family had to make
efforts not to detract of traditional dignity and show the same foot always decent. "In these critical
circumstances - told me after a long conference that graced me with looks somewhat flaming
- the fate of the family depends on me. I'll take forward. "

How to contrive to that end is something that does not fall within this story. The new trace this
lady is not even in our fountain. What can be insured, with references well tested, is that
henceforth knew of Bringas easily and with some success grace of the painful situations that
created their irregularities. It is incontrovertible point which to settle their accounts with Shelter
and get rid of this disgusting fly, did not to strive as much as in similar cases described
in this book. And is that such occasions sets, dramas tame, or whatever you call them, were the tests
that moral change, and had to take her as inexperienced and novice.

Frankly, of course, I watched them go with regret. The day they left, the upper town seemed a
place under threat of bombardment. There was not any more than it moves, hit motion people and a
huge racking furniture and various junk. Through the dark streets not could travel. Dramatically
with the spectacle enjoyed Alfonsito Bringas, which would have liked to handle the transportation
of all in cars of their property.

The tooth fairy was sorry to see him. Leaning on the arm of his wife, walked slowly disturbed vision,
hesitant speech. Serena and somewhat majestic, Rosalie did not say a word all the way from the house
to the Plaza de Oriente, but in his eyes eloquent was clear conviction proud consciousness of their
role as the cornerstone of the house so distressing circumstances.

In precise terms the same thing I heard from his own lips later in demure interview. We were in
full time revolutionary. Wanted to repeat the evidence of his ruinous friendship, more I hastened
to bring them about, as if it seemed natural that she should be the
mainstay of the loss family, I thought I if so, against all the dictates
of moral and economic domestic.

End of "Bring LA"

MADRID. April-May 1884.

Dick did not find it trying, though, he loved a walk, no matter in what direction it lay, and
questions and curiosity did not trouble him at all.  He looked wistfully from Huldah to Mrs.
Perry, begging with his eyes that he might be allowed to go too.

"Yes, take him," said Mrs. Perry; "it is only three o'clock, and you'll be back by four.  I
don't mind being alone in broad daylight like this."  So Huldah, not a little pleased with
her appearance in her pretty blue frock and new hat, started off, basket in hand, and Dick,
very proud and pleased, trotted off beside her.

It was not until she drew near the village that she began to wonder what the people would think
of the change in her appearance, and a great shyness seized her, and reluctance to go on and
meet their looks of surprise, and their open remarks.  The feeling grew and grew with every
step she took, until she had begun to wonder if she could ever bring herself to face them,
when suddenly her mind was lifted off her fears by the extraordinary behaviour of Dick.

Growling savagely, his hair rising stiffly along his back, he was walking more and more slowly,
and drawing in closer and closer to Huldah, as his habit was when he felt he must protect her.

"Why, Dick," she cried, puzzled and half-alarmed, "what is it old man? whatever is the matter?"
Then, her eyes following the direction of his, she saw, standing by a gate deep-set in the
hedge, two young men.  To her they seemed harmless enough, just two ordinary-looking strangers,
and if it had not been for Dick's behaviour, she would have passed them by without a thought.
But evidently they were not harmless in Dick's eyes, for his growls and snarls grew louder
and more forbidding the nearer he approached.

The men looked surprised and frightened, and, like most frightened people, they lost their
tempers.  "Hold in your dog, can't you?" cried one.  "You've no right to keep a brute like that."

At the sound of the man's voice Huldah felt a shock of surprise, and Dick's anger increased
alarmingly.  Where had she heard that voice before?  She was sure it sounded familiar.

Without replying, she laid her hand on Dick's collar, and held him close to her.

The other man grew more threatening.  "I'll go to the p'lice, and tell 'em you've got a savage
dog that ought to be shot, 'cause he isn't safe!" he shouted out, furious with anger and fear.

"He isn't savage, he's good-tempered," Huldah burst forth, at last. "He won't hurt anybody
unless they was up to no good, and--and deserved it."  She was very near the verge of tears,
but she felt she must not break down then.

"Call him good-tempered, do you?  We wasn't doing anything but just standing here, and he come
along ready to fly at our throats!"

Huldah could not deny the man's statement, nor could she explain. The men certainly seemed
to be doing no harm, and Dick's behaviour was very extraordinary.  All she could do was to
clutch his collar with all her strength, and hurry away as fast as she could go. All thoughts
of the village people's looks and remarks were gone from her mind now.  She was shaking with
nervousness and excitement and fears for Dick, and could think of nothing else.

How she did her errands she never knew, for the scare had driven almost everything else out
of her head, her one idea being to hurry home as quickly as possible, and get herself and Dick
into safety. The men were strangers to her, and she hoped they would never find out where she
and Dick lived.

All the way back until she got past the gateway she still clutched Dick by the collar, much
to his surprise and annoyance, for there was much to interest him on a walk like that, and
he had quite forgotten his anger and the strangers who had aroused it.

When they had got safely past the dreaded gateway, Huldah's fears calmed down a little.

The men had departed, and all the road ahead of them looked empty.

"You may run now, Dickie," she said, with a sigh of relief, "and don't go getting into any
more rows, for I can't bear it."

Dick, with a joyous flick of his tail and a bark of delight, bounded forward delightedly, and
Huldah, free at last to attend to other things, looked over her parcels anxiously, to see if
she had forgotten anything, for she had really only had half her wits about her when she was
in the shop.

"Tea, sugar, box of matches--"  A sharp yell made her look up quickly, her heart seeming to
stand still with terror.  It was Dick's voice, and Dick was in the middle of the road rolling
about and crying out sharply, in evident pain.

"Dick!  Dick!  Come here, what has happened?  Oh, Dick!" she called frantically, as she flew
to his side; but before she could reach him a big stone came whizzing from the hedge, and another
sharp cry of pain showed that poor Dick had been struck again.

"Oh, Dick, Dick dear! what have they done to you?" she cried, dropping on her knees in the
dust beside him. The dog tried to struggle to his feet, but could not; every movement caused
him to yelp with pain.  He looked up at her imploringly, and licked her hand, as she put her
arm under him to raise him, and the pain and helplessness in his loving eyes made her tears
overflow.  What was she to do?  He was too big and heavy for her to carry all the way home.
She looked about her helplessly, but there was no one in sight, or likely to be at that time
of the day; only those two cowards hiding behind the hedge; for it had not taken Huldah long
to guess who Dick's assailants were.

From time to time Dick gave a little whimper, and Huldah lifted his head upon her lap; but
she was almost afraid to touch him, lest she should cause him more pain.  How long, she wondered
miserably, would it be before help came?  Would those cowards throw more stones? It was horrible
to stay there alone with that cowardly heartless pair hidden behind the hedge, and the feeling
that at any moment more stones might be hurled at Dick.  To protect him she placed herself
between him and the hedge.

At last, at long last, when she had begun to wonder anxiously if night would fall and still
find her there; and to think how frightened Mrs. Perry must be getting already, the sound of
wheels struck on her ears, and it seemed to her the most welcome sound she had ever heard in
her life.

The cowards heard it too, apparently, for "Come on, Bill," called a low voice, in the direction
of the hedge.  Huldah gave a great start of surprise.  Where had she heard that voice and those
very words before?  Why, of course, it was all plain now.  That first night at the cottage,
the barn, the fowl-robbers!--it all came back to her with a rush.  No wonder Dick had been
angry when he saw them again,-- and she, in her stupidity, had blamed him for showing temper.
Dear clever, wise, brave Dick!  He, too, recognised the voice now, and growled again with all
his former spirit.  Huldah's indignation rose beyond control.  "Oh, you cowards!" she called
out in a shrill angry voice, "I know you now.  You came robbing a hen-roost, and the dog drove
you off.  You ran away from him, but he bit your legs. No wonder he growled when he saw you
again.  He knew what you were. I wish now I hadn't held him in.  I wish I'd let him go at you,
then p'raps it would have been you lying in the road howling, not him. Oh, you thieves and
cowards!"

Her voice rang out clear and loud, but how much the men heard no one will ever know.  Probably
they did not stay to hear much, for the last thing they wanted was to meet people, or to run
any risk of being seen.

The wheels drew nearer, then the vicarage pony-carriage came round the bend.  For one moment
Miss Carew stared bewildered at the group in the middle of the road, the little blue-clad girl,
the yellow dog, and the basket of groceries all on the ground in the dust together; then she
saw that something was wrong, and sprang out quickly to their assistance.

"Why, brownie! What has happened?" she cried, alarmed.  "Dick, oh, poor old doggie, whatever
have you been doing?"

Well she might ask, for poor Dick was covered with dust.  He had a lump on his head, and a
cut on his shoulder, and he could not help whining, as he made another effort to rise to greet her.

Then, amidst sobs and tears Huldah told her story, and Dick meanwhile looked up at her, a little
protecting whimper escaping him from time to time.  Now that the strain was over, and relief
had come, Huldah broke down completely for a time.  She was trembling in every limb, and was
white to the lips.  Miss Rose saw that the best thing for them both was to get them home as
quickly as possible.

Half lifting Huldah, she helped her into the carriage.  Then she put Dick in across her lap,
and her basket at her feet, and finally got in herself.

"Now then," she said, cheeringly, "we shall soon be home, and Dick shall have his bruises bathed
and his poor leg bound up.  Don't cry any more, brownie, or you will frighten Mrs. Perry, and
we mustn't do that on any account, must we? Dick is going to be very brave--he always is--and
you are going to be as plucky as Dick.  See there, he is better already," as the invalid gave
a bark of excitement, at the sight of some sparrows in the road.

Huldah smiled, then laughed.  If Dick was all right, nothing else seemed to matter.  Dick turned
his head and smiled up at her, to assure her he was better; and so, on the whole, it was quite
a cheerful little party which drew up a few moments later before Mrs. Perry's gate.

CHAPTER VI.

HULDAH GOES SHOPPING.

Though she made light of it to Mrs. Perry, the fright she had received kept Huldah in a very
nervous state for many a day to come. She lived always in a constant dread of some harm coming
to poor Dick, and she was never really easy if he was out of her sight. By day, her eyes were
here, there, and everywhere, fearful that somewhere those two dreaded figures might be lurking
about, waiting to attack or steal her Dick; and at night she lay awake hour after hour, thinking
she heard sounds in the house or the garden. Half-a-dozen times she would get out of her bed,
shaking with nervousness, yet unable to lie still, and peer out, to see if they really were
getting over the garden wall or not, and always she longed for the night to be over.  She felt
safer when she was up and about, with Dick under her eye.

Miss Carew grew quite troubled about her--about them both, in fact, for Huldah's nervousness,
though she tried to keep it to herself, could scarcely be concealed from Mrs. Perry.

Something must be done to distract the child's mind, she felt,--but what?  And then, as though
to solve the difficulty for her, came an order for half a dozen of Huldah's pretty baskets.

No other cure she could have found would have been half so good. Huldah's spirits went up to
a pitch of delight such as she had never known before.  She was full of gratitude and of eagerness
to begin, and if Miss Rose had not been able to drive her in to Belmouth that very day to buy
the raffia, there was, as Miss Rose said, no knowing what might have happened.

Huldah liked the work, and she had done so little lately that the thought of going back to
it was a pleasure in itself, but best of all was the thought of what she would do with the
money when she got it. That thought kept her in one thrill of joy.

She was to have eighteenpence each for the baskets.  Nine whole shillings!  It seemed to Huldah
a perfect fortune, and she would spend the whole of it on Mrs. Perry.  She would get her in
a store of coal, in readiness for the winter; then they would be able to have good fires, and
not have to be counting the cost all the time.

That was the first decision.  After a time, though, that seemed rather an uninteresting purchase.
All her money would be gone at once, and almost before she had realised that she had got it.
She next decided to get a large piece of bacon, two sacks of coal, and a sack of corn for the
fowls; but this plan was changed again for others.  Every day Huldah thought out some new and
delightful purchases, and what she would have bought finally nobody knows, for Miss Rose and
Mrs. Perry put an end to all her schemes, by insisting that the money was to be spent on herself.
She was to buy a new winter coat for herself, they decided, and Huldah had to give in. She
was bitterly disappointed at first; it had never entered her head to spend her money on anyone
but Mrs. Perry, it was for her only that she had wanted it.

Autumn was well advanced now, the mornings and nights were cold, and the days not really hot,
and Huldah soon began to realise that she did need a warm garment of some sort, for she had
only her thin print frocks, and a little shoulder shawl that Mrs. Perry had given her.

So, as soon as she had got her nine shillings in her pocket, Miss Rose came with the pony-cart
and drove her in to Belmouth to hunt through the shops in search of a coat or a cloak which
would not cost more than nine shillings, and at the same time be neat and warm, and--at least,
so Huldah hoped,--pretty.

Such a day as that was to Huldah!  Such a day as had never come into her life before.  First
of all there was the drive, four whole miles with Miss Rose in her dear little pony-carriage,
and actually wearing one of Miss Rose's old golf cloaks wrapped snugly round her.  The sun
shone and the birds sang, and the air was exhilarating with the first touch of frost; the trees
glowed warmly in their autumn dress, and the hedges too.

Huldah was speechless with excitement, when, after leaving Rob, the pony, at a livery-stable,
she followed Miss Carew into the big draper's shop where the purchase was to be made.  She
was half frightened too, the place was so large, and there were so many people there, who seemed
to have nothing to do but stare about them. It was quite an ordeal to walk behind the shop-walker
between the long lines of counters with so many people looking over them at her. She kept very
close indeed to Miss Rose, and tried to believe that it was at Miss Rose they were staring,
and not at herself.

Then at last they came to the jacket department, and before she knew what she was doing a very
tall young woman was standing beside her with a bright scarlet coat in her hands, and actually
holding it out for Huldah to try on.

"Oh, that will not do," interposed Miss Rose, sharply.  She was sorry that Huldah should have
seen it, it was so attractive, though unsuitable, and would probably make all the others seem
dull and ugly.  But Huldah knew too that it was quite unsuitable for her purpose.  What she
wanted was a serviceable garment for Sundays and week-days, wet weather and fine; she would
have loved though to have it, and for years after, one of her ambitions was to have a bright
red coat in the winter.

Miss Rose strolled away with the girl, after that, to say a word to her in private, and to
try to help her pick out something suitable; and very soon they came back again with black
coats, blue coats, dark green and grey coats, and one after the other Huldah tried them on,
and one after the other they were thrown aside as useless. The shoulders came to her elbows
nearly, and the cuffs beyond her finger-tips, while the collars refused to come anywhere near
her neck!  It was most disappointing.

"She is very narrow, and thin for her height," remarked the girl, apologetically, as one after
the other the coats hung off Huldah's shoulders like loose sacks.  "I wonder if you wouldn't
find a cloak more satisfactory for her.  Fit does not matter so much with a cloak. Now this
one is a very good one; it cost fifteen shillings at first, but it is reduced very much, because
it is a little out of fashion, and slightly shop-worn," and she held up a warm brown cloak
with big bone buttons, and, oh! joy of joys in Huldah's eyes, a hood lined with blue!  "Hoods
aren't being worn now," she went on; but Huldah heard no more.

"Not worn!  Out of fashion!"  All her life Huldah had longed for a cloak with a hood!  In a
rapture she felt the cloak being placed on her shoulders, and saw the girl button the big horn
buttons, and in a tumult of shy delight she looked over herself, and then up at Miss Carew.

"That fits her very well," said the girl, in a tone of relief.

Miss Rose read Huldah's eager face, and almost nervously enquired the price.  It would be such
a blow if it should be beyond them.

"It is reduced to eight shillings, madam," said the girl, who was almost as anxious to sell
as they were to buy.  "It is good cloth, a real bargain."

"Then we must have it, mustn't we, brownie?" cried Miss Rose, promptly.  "It may not be as
warm as a coat, but it certainly fits her and suits her.  Why, we have turned you into a brownie
again, Huldah!  Are you pleased with your purchase?"

"Oh yes, miss! I think it is lovely, I like it better than any!" gasped Huldah, excitedly.
She could scarcely believe yet that she was not in a dream, or that it could really be she,
Huldah Bate, to whom all this was happening.

The young attendant stooped to unbutton the cloak, to take it away and wrap it in a parcel,
but Miss Carew stopped her.  "I think she may as well wear it home," she said.  "It is cold,
and it will be the easiest way of carrying it." Looking at the same time as its main objective to stop the offenses to God Our Lord,
whose ministers, priests Lords, have the proper appreciation and veneration to their states, just
as religions and monasteries, whose pious and righteous intention with which I come, I hope of divine
mercy, as intended by it to effect me shine and rule for a business you need all your support
for your happy success.

"And so that they have understood, fixed copies of this edict, in places is considered appropriate
in that province, where I know who follow this advice, to reward loyalists and punish the rebels,
who will know your good, and then alegareis not ignorance. Is all
I can say.

Lampa, and December 23, 1780. "

D. Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, Inca.

There was no longer in the province any leader who could provide care. The items veteran troops
that had been allowed to see throughout their jurisdiction, had filled in respect to the Indians
living in villages, and were beginning to discern some signs of submission their neighbors, because
hasty diligence Governors came to Tupiza Indians, beg pardon, expressing greater care in credit
had not come for formally revolt, which resulted in the commander, to substantiate the causes
to inmates I had learned, which was verified militarily, and justified the crimes were the
last 23 major ordeal, and the rest were condemned to prison and flogging: egecutó everything
without the slightest novelty occurred in spite of the threats had published in some papers
satirical attack that promised to liberate the town oppressors. It continued for official
jealous that the more accurate and active measures to recover stolen
goods, and the Spanish who had died, and those who were fugitives.  "Oh no, miss.  I am too happy to be tired! and
it's lovely to feel the warmth of my cloak coming in to my shoulders.  I think it is so beautiful.
Do you like it, miss?"

"Very much indeed, and I like to have our brownie in brown again; it seems just right!"

Huldah laughed happily.  "I wish"--she began, then stopped, as a sudden idea flashed on her
mind.  Why, of course, she could be a real brownie, and by getting up very early she could,
without anyone's knowing anything about it, make one of her prettiest and nicest baskets for
Miss Rose!  Her spirits went up, and up with pleasure at the thought all her gravity left her,
and when at last they drew up before the cottage in Woodend Lane, her face was one big radiant
smile.  Mrs. Perry was at the door as soon as they had reached the gate.

"Oh my!" she exclaimed, throwing up her hands with pleasure and surprise at the sight of Huldah
walking up the path actually wearing her new purchase.  "Oh my, how nice we do look!  Now,
I do call that just perfect!"

The child's face was glowing with health and happiness, her eyes were beaming with affection,
and eager for sympathy.  Could she possibly be the little ill-used, runaway waif who had come
to her door starving, only so short a time ago?  Mrs. Perry asked herself the question as she
looked at her, and in her heart thanked God for sending her this blessing, this chance to help
another; and for staying her tongue when she had felt tempted to bid her begone.

Across her mind too flashed the thought of what might have happened to Huldah, if she had turned
her away that night.  Would it have been to the workhouse, or the jail she would have drifted,--this
bonnie, healthy, smiling child?  But her mind was drawn back to healthier thoughts by Huldah's
little brown work-worn hands.

"Don't you like it, ma'am?" she was asking, troubled by the gravity on Mrs. Perry's face.

"Like it!" she cried, coming back to the present with glad relief. "I should think I did, and
you in it, too, dear!" and for the first time in her life she stooped and kissed the little
maiden, and Huldah returned the kiss with all the warmth of her affectionate heart welling
up to her lips.

It was the first time anyone had kissed her since her mother died, and the first time that
she had kissed anyone but Dick and Charlie.

CHAPTER VII.

A MEETING AND AN ALARM.

Autumn had come now; late autumn with winter not so very far off, and the days were growing
very short and dark; so short and dark that there was no chance of working early in the morning
before she went downstairs, nor after she went to bed at night, except by candlelight, and
she could not, of course, burn candles. So Mrs. Perry had to be taken into the secret, and
Huldah worked in comfort by the fire in the afternoons, after she had done her housework.

And how she did love those cosy afternoons, and how the memory of them lived with her all her
life after!  The wind and rain storming outside, the snug little kitchen, where they sat so
cosy and warm, Dick lying contentedly on his rug, Mrs. Perry sitting in her armchair by the
fire, reading aloud from one of her few but precious books. They were old, those stories, but
to Huldah they were more beautiful than any she ever came across later on.

Then came the glad day when the basket was completed.  Huldah had taken more pains with it
than with any she had ever made, and her care was rewarded, for a prettier, daintier basket
no one could wish to possess.  As soon as it was finished there arose the great question of
how, and when, and where the gift should be made.

"I want it to seem as if it comes from a brownie," Huldah insisted, eagerly.  "I couldn't make
it at night, as the brownies would have done, but couldn't I leave it, as they left their gifts,
just where it is sure to be found? It would be much nicer, wouldn't it? Miss Rose would laugh,
and be so pleased.  I am sure she would like to have it that way."

At last, after a great deal of thought, and a great many plans had been made and set aside
as not quite suitable, it was decided that Huldah should get up early in the morning and walk
to the vicarage, then creeping softly into the stable, she would tie the parcel on to Rob's
back, or to his manger, where he could not reach it. Miss Carew always went out early, to feed
her hens, and to take Rob some bread and sugar, so she would be sure to see it.

Another plan was for Huldah to creep into Miss Rose's sitting-room when the maid's back was
turned, and leave the parcel on the table; but they did not like this plan very well, for one
thing, Huldah did not like creeping stealthily in and out of the house, and for another, Miss
Rose might not find the basket for hours. She was always so busy about the garden and Rob and
the hen-houses that she might not go to her room till quite late in the day.

No; Rob, they decided, must be the medium, and Huldah thrilled with excitement.

When she went to bed that night, she was so full of fears that she would not wake in good time
in the morning that she tried to keep awake all night.  But, after a while the time seemed
so long, the night so endless, and the morning so far off, she longed to be able to go to sleep,
to bring it nearer more quickly, and while she was wondering if the kitchen clock had really
struck ten, or was it really six, and time to get up, she fell asleep, and the next thing she
was conscious of was Mrs. Perry calling her, and the old clock in the kitchen striking six
as hard as it could strike.

"You dress and get ready, and I will light the fire," she said; and when Huldah presently went
downstairs, the kitchen was bright with lamp and firelight, the kettle was singing gaily, and
Mrs. Perry was already warming the tea-pot.

By the time they had had their tea and Huldah was ready to start, it was already growing light
out of doors.  The night had been cold, and there was a thin layer of ice on the puddles in
the road, and a nipping little wind made Huldah glad to wrap her old shawl snugly about her,--the
shawl which Mrs. Perry had lent her, to save the new cloak.  Dick bounded along delightedly;
it was not often now that he had a walk at that hour of the morning, and he rejoiced in every
inch of it; though he was rather hurt when, on reaching the vicarage gate, Huldah took a piece
of string from her pocket and fastened it to his collar.  It was only his perfect trust in
his mistress that enabled him to bear such an indignity, and he followed her full of wonder
as to what was to happen next.

Keeping on the grass by the side of the drive, they made their way noiselessly round to the
courtyard and stables.  No one was about out of doors, Huldah rejoiced to see, but guessed
that Dinah was already up and in the kitchen, for smoke was coming out of a chimney.

With Dick keeping obediently close to her side, she timidly opened the stable door and crept
swiftly in.  Rob knew her well enough by this time, and only looked mildly surprised at her
appearance. He had a horse-cloth over him, fastened round him by a girth, and while he scrunched
up the sugar Huldah had brought him she secured her basket on his back by the girth, as fast
as her nervous fingers could manage it.  "Miss Rose can't help seeing it there," she thought,
delightedly, "and Rob can't harm it before she comes." She stood for a second gazing in sheer
joy at her handiwork, the dainty basket and the big white label tied to it, with "From a grateful
Brownie," written in large letters on it.  Then, fearful of being discovered, she hurried quickly
out, fastened the door behind her, and with Dick still close at her heels raced away as quietly
as ever she could, and never paused until she had reached the top of Woodend Lane once more.

Stephen Lea, the groom, had been ill, and was late that morning, and Miss Rose reached the
stable first.  Almost at once her eye was caught by something unusual on the pony's back, but
in the dim light of the stable she could not make out what it was.

"Why, Rob," she exclaimed, laughing, "what have you been doing? Where have you been to pick
up a load?"  Then she searched his side, and made out what the load really was.  "Oh, that
dear child!" she cried, as she read the inscription written in a big round hand on a sheet
of paper, and her eyes grew misty, "From a grateful Brownie." "Now when could she have brought
that, and tied it there, I wonder. Rob, you bad boy, why don't you tell me all about it?  You
know you have been gobbling down sugar this morning, greedy little creature that you are; but
I should never have known it from you, if I hadn't seen the crumbs.  You are the best secret-keeper
I know, but I do wish you could tell me about this, Rob dear."

She looked at the pretty basket with eyes full of tenderness and admiration.  "Dear, kind little
brownie!" she whispered softly.

Later that day, Rob, still looking as though he did not know what a secret or a brownie was,
trotted down Woodend Lane, and drew up as a matter of course before the cottage gate.  Indeed,
his feelings would have been quite hurt if he had been told that he must not stop there, but
must go further down the lane.

Huldah heard his steps, and saw him arrive, watched Miss Rose get down from the carriage and
fasten Rob to the railings,--then, in a sudden access of shyness, flew out of the back door
and down to the very bottom of the garden.

There Miss Rose found her, a few minutes later.  "Huldah," she said, smiling, her pretty blue
eyes full of pleasure, and gratitude, and affection, "I found on Rob's back this morning, left
there by the brownies, a basket so pretty and so dainty that everyone who has seen it wants
one like it.  It was a brownie's basket, and as you are the only one of them that I know who
can do work like it, I have come to bring you the order."

"Oh!" gasped Huldah, forgetting her shyness in her delight.

"I am going to call them 'Brownie baskets,' to distinguish them from any others; but the reason
shall be our secret, shall it not? Thank you very, very much little brownie, for your sweet
gift," and she stooped down and kissed Huldah on the forehead.

The child's eyes filled with tears, glad, grateful tears.  "Oh, Miss Rose," she exclaimed,
"I am so happy, I don't know what to do; it is all too lovely.  I am always afraid I shall
wake up and find it a dream."

"It is no dream, brownie; so long as you go on trying to make others happy you will find your
own happiness is quite real.  Happiness lies in helping others and bringing sunshine into their
lives.  You will have some disappointments.  It will seem as though some people do not want
to be made happy, others would not admit it if they were. Such people need a lot of patience
shown them, but you must go on trying.  There is always something to be done for someone. 
You must come indoors, though, or you will be taking cold, and we cannot afford to have that
happen."

Huldah followed Miss Rose along the path, hardly conscious that her feet touched the earth.
Her heart was throbbing with joy, her eyes were dancing.  Dick followed his mistress, his tail
wagging contentedly, he knew by instinct why she was happy, and his senses told him that she
had been very happy ever since they started for that beautiful walk that morning.

"I am going to begin the work to-morrow morning," Huldah said, eagerly, to Mrs. Perry that
evening, as they sat over their supper before the fire.  "I expect Miss Rose would like to
have the baskets soon, and they will take a little while to make."

Alas, though, when morning came, Huldah's eagerness received a sharp check.  She had only the
least little bit of raffia left, and to get more she would have to go into Belmouth.

"What a pity!" she cried, disappointedly; "it will take hours to walk there and back, and I
meant to have done such a lot to-day!" She could have wept with vexation.  Belmouth was four
miles off, and one of the hilliest four miles imaginable.  But it was not this that daunted
her, it was the length of time that she would be kept from her work.  However, there was no
good done by worrying over it, or by delaying, so, as soon as she had done her housework, and
dinner was over and the dishes put away, she put on her new brown cloak, and with Dick for
company she started.

They stepped out briskly, for the days were short now, and Mrs. Perry grew anxious if they
were long away, and nervous if she were left alone when the light began to fade.  They stepped
along so briskly that by half-past two they were in the town, and making their way to the shop
where Miss Rose had bought the raffia before.  The purchase took a little time, for the shopman
had not enough out, and had to send to the stock-room to get some.  But, now that she was there,
Huldah did not mind that.  She loved watching the people coming in and making their purchases;
it was all so lively and new and interesting.  The shopkeeper, who had seen her come there
with Miss Carew, and had heard about her basket-making, was nice and friendly too.  He seemed
to take quite an interest in her work, and promised to get her some orders if he could, so
that altogether Huldah came out of that shop feeling extremely happy, and not in the least
sorry that she had had to come.

"I feel almost too happy," she was saying to herself, as she stepped out into the street, where
the setting sun was flooding the place with radiance, a dazzling, rosy radiance that shone
right in Huldah's eyes, and blinded her to all about her.

"It is all so lovely," she added, "it seems as if it can't be true, as if I can't be really
me"--a sudden sharp, excited barking on the part of Dick made her turn quickly.  She turned
her back to the sun, and the dazzle went out of her eyes, and with it the sunshine from her
life,--or so it seemed to her,--for there, drawn up by the opposite pavement was her uncle's
van, and old Charlie! and, as Huldah knew, the owners themselves would not be far off!

Dick had recognised Charlie--that was the meaning of his excitement, and therein lay the greatest
danger, for he was barking and leaping about the old horse in such delight that everyone's
attention was attracted, and it was only a question as to how soon he would attract Uncle Tom's
attention too.  Huldah's own heart yearned to go over and speak to the dear old horse, but
her fears were stronger.  She felt half paralysed with terror, and for a moment her wits so
forsook her that she did not know what to do.  Then inspiration came to her, and she turned
and hurried away as fast as her feet could carry her. She did not run, she was trembling too
much for that, she dared not whistle for Dick, for that would have called attention to them
both. She could only walk away, and trust to his following her; but even as she went she heard
a dreaded voice shout out excitedly, "Why there's our Dick! Dick, Dick, come here"--but at
the sound of it Dick felt the old fear in his heart leap to life, and with his old instinct
to fly from his master, he dashed along the street as swiftly as his long legs could carry
him, and was very quickly out of sight. So swiftly did he race that he shot past Huldah without
recognising her, and her heart beat faster with thankfulness, for the further away he got the
better, and it was better for both of them that they should not be seen together.

How she got over those four long miles home Huldah never knew. Her head swam, her legs trembled,
indeed, her whole body shook with nervous dread, so that, in spite of her anxiety to get home
quickly, she had to stand still many times, to quiet the beating of her heart, and get breath
to go on again.

Half a mile out of the town she found Dick, running wildly backwards and forwards looking for
her, and troubled and ashamed at having lost her.  She wished, though, that he had gone all
the way home, for if they were followed and seen together she would be recognised instantly,
and she would have no power of escape such as Dick had had.

She took her hat off, and drew her hood over her head, but with Dick beside her nothing would
save her, she knew.  So slowly had she come that darkness was already beginning to fall.  Seeing
this, she tried to hurry on more quickly, and once within sight of their own lane relief gave
her strength to run.  In the lane the twilight was deeper, and already Mrs. Perry, growing
nervous, had lighted the lamp in the kitchen.  The warm glow streamed out on poor frightened
Huldah, and welcomed her.  At the sound of her footsteps the house door flew open, and Mrs.
Perry came out on the step to meet her; but instead of her usual smile and greeting, Huldah
fell exhausted into her arms and burst into a passion of bitter sobs.

CHAPTER VIII.

TRACKED DOWN.

"I tell you that there's my dog!  He was stolen from me, and I'm going to 'ave the law of whoever's
got 'im."

Tom Smith went blustering back into the public-house, almost speechless with anger.  To have
been so near Dick and then to have missed him, was almost more than he could bear.  If he had
known he had missed Huldah too, he would have been even more angry.

"You can't have the law of people for taking in a stray," remarked one man, quietly.  They
none of them liked Tom Smith, and most of them wished he would go on his way and leave them
to their quiet gossip.

"Perhaps he ran away," suggested another, drily.

Tom Smith glowered at him sullenly.  "What should he run away for?" he asked, sharply.

"Well, that's more'n I can say," answered the man, calmly. "It seems to be his way, by the
look of him just now.  Dogs do it sometimes, when they think they'd like a change."

"I know he didn't run away; he was stolen, and I'd give five shillings to know who'd got him,
and where he lives."

He did not mean what he said, and he never intended to part with five shillings, but he did
want to find Dick, and he meant to do it, too. For once he was taken at his word.

"Hand over your five bob.  I can tell you where the dog lives." The voice came from over by
the window, and all eyes were turned in that direction.  A young man, a stranger to all there,
was standing leaning eagerly towards Tom Smith, his hand held out.  He had been sitting silent
until this moment, but listening attentively to all that was being said.

Tom Smith turned towards him, looking very foolish; and, as usual, when he felt small he began
to bluster.  "Likely tale I'm going to hand over five shillings now!  How do I know you knows
anything about the dog; what one I means, or where he lives, or anything at all about him?
Besides, I don't give the five bob unless I actually gets hold of the dog."

"I tell you I do know him; he's a yaller dog, a long-legged thing with a short tail, and he
goes about with a girl, and he's called Dick.  I shouldn't have said I know'd him if I didn't."

"A girl!"  Tom Smith's cruel eyes lightened with eagerness. "Have you seen a girl with him?
a kid about twelve-year old? When?  Now?  Are you sure?  Why, 'twas she that stole him!"

"What should a child of that age want to steal a dog for?" asked one of the other men.

"Better ask her, if you want to know!" retorted the other, rudely. "I'll give 'ee another shilling
if you can help me lay my hands on the both of them."

"Right you are," agreed Bob, promptly, and without a single qualm of conscience.  "We'd better
start; 'tis about four miles from here they live, and it'll be dark soon."

"Ugh!" Tom Smith looked vexed; he was a lazy man, and he did not relish the prospect of a four
miles' tramp.  "I've got to wait for my old woman to come back," he muttered.

Emma Smith was going round the town with a big basket of tins and brushes and things, trying
to sell some, while he hung about the public-house, enjoying himself doing nothing.  Her round
was a long one, and few people seemed tempted to buy of such a slovenly, disagreeable-looking
woman, one who grew rude too, if people did not want any of her goods.

So it was that Huldah had got safely home without being overtaken, and once within that cosy
kitchen felt herself safe from all danger. She little dreamed that at that moment the three
persons she feared most in the world were starting out from Belmouth in search of her. Poor Huldah!

It was six o'clock and quite dark by the time the trio, and Charlie and the van, reached Wood
End; and many a time before they got there Bob Thorp would have thrown up the job, if he had
not wanted the money so badly.  For the whole of the four miles Tom Smith grumbled, bullied
his wife, beat Charlie, and snapped and snarled at everyone and everything.

"I don't wonder at anybody's running away from you," remarked Bob at last, losing all patience.
"If I was your wife I'd do the same."

Whereupon Tom snarled again with rage, "She'd better let me catch her trying it on, that's
all," he said, threateningly, and glared at his wife, as though she had threatened to do so.

A little way beyond the village they drew up, and without troubling to ask anyone's leave Tom
drove the van into a field,--where they had no possible right to be, and poor tired Charlie
and his tired mistress were left to themselves for, at any rate, a few minutes' peace.

The two men walked on again in silence until they reached the top of Woodend Lane, There Bob
Thorp drew up, and showed a decided disinclination to go any further.

"'Tis down there they live, the first cottage you come to; you can't mistake it.  There's only
an old woman, I b'lieve, besides the girl and the dog.  I'd better keep away, 'cause they knows
me, leastways the girl does, and--and the dog.  If you'll hand over that six bob now, I'll
be getting home.  I've got a good step to go yet."

Tom Smith agreed almost pleasantly.  "Right you are," he said, diving his hand into an inside
pocket, "and, thank 'ee, I'll manage the rest, and I'd better manage it alone.  I don't want
to draw my friends into any trouble over it,--leastways not those that have done me a good turn."

He fumbled for some time over the counting out of the money, but when at last he had put it
into Bob's hand, the latter turned abruptly away, and with only a brief 'good-night' plunged
hurriedly down the dark lane.

"Good-night," said Bob, "and thank 'ee.  Three florins isn't it?" But Tom Smith was out of
sight, and Bob was glad to hurry away too, as fast as his legs could take him.  He did not
feel altogether pleased, though he did try to cheer himself by chinking his money in his pocket,
and planning how he would spend it.  All the way he went he seemed to see again Huldah's pained,
sorrowful face, as she knelt in the road beside her dog, and tried to shelter him with her
own body.  How she must love the ugly yellow creature, and how he loved her! and how they would
feel it, if they were parted.  What a life they'd lead, if they had to go back to the van and
that ill-tempered, grumbling pair!

"I couldn't wish anybody any worse harm than to have to live with that fellow," he muttered
to himself.  "'Tis a poor look-out for 'em, poor toads!"

The thought of Huldah, and the desire not to be mixed up in the affair, sent him home and to
bed, to be out of the way.  So he went to sleep, and tried to forget what he had done, and
his three florins remained untouched in his pocket until morning.

In the meantime Tom Smith had made his way stealthily down the lane until he reached the little
cottage.  At the gate he stopped, and peering about him, listened for a time, while he tried
to plan what his first move should be.  Should he be civil and friendly, or should he just
go in and frighten them all?  As he stood there debating he looked like some mean beast of
prey, waiting to spring on his victim. A cheerful light shone out of one of the little windows,
and in the stillness of the night the sound of voices reached him.  One he recognised at once
as Huldah's.  A savoury smell of cooking was wafted out to him, and roused him to greater anger.

"That little hussy is a-selling of her baskets, I'll be bound, and she and the old woman live
on the fat of the land with the money that they bring.  My baskets, I calls 'em.  It's sheer
thieving!  A fine old yarn she'll have told, too, and a nice character she'll have give'd me,
ugh, the little--"

A ripple of laughter sounded through the silence.  To him it seemed as though Huldah were mocking
him.  Hesitating no longer, he strode up the path and knocked heavily on the door.  Instantly
the voices and the laughter ceased.  There was a spring at the door and a growl. Dick had scented
the enemy!  Then after a moment's pause a voice asked timidly, "Who is there?"

Tom Smith heard the alarm in the voice, and rejoiced.  It gave him the greatest pleasure always
to know that he inspired fear in anyone.

"Open the door.  It's me, Tom Smith, and I've come after that dog of mine that you've stole!"

No answer came, nor was the door opened.

"Open the door, I say, or I'll fetch the police for you! pack of thieves that you are!"

The threat of the police would have made Huldah smile, if she had not been in such a state
of terror for herself, and even more so for Dick.  She knew that her "uncle" would not go within
a mile of a policeman if he could help it.  Indeed, she longed and prayed for a policeman to
come along then, that she might appeal to him for protection.

Unfortunately for them, though, not even a bolt stood between them and their enemy, and before
Huldah could step forward to shoot it, or turn the key, the latch was raised, and Tom Smith
was in the kitchen. With one well-aimed kick he sent Dick into the furthest corner, and with
equally sure aim he seized Huldah by the wrist.  "Now, you come along of me, and no nonsense,
do you hear?  A fine dance you've led me and your poor aunt!  You deserves a good hiding, both
of 'ee, and I ain't sure but what you'll get it yet."

"Let her alone," gasped Mrs. Perry, "let her go--she isn't yours. You've no--right--to her."
Her face was grey white, her heart seemed to have stopped beating, and she could hardly speak.

Tom Smith took no notice of her whatever, he was not going to waste time in arguing--bullying
was more in his line.  "Now then, come along.  If you makes any noise, I'll turn the p'lice
on the old lady there, for harbouring thieves and receiving stolen property. Stop it now!"
as Huldah wrenched herself away.  "P'raps that'll teach you," and he caught her a heavy blow
on the ear.

Mrs. Perry screamed.  "Don't hurt her--oh, don't do them any harm!" she pleaded.  "Promise
not--to beat them."  It seemed to her impossible to resist him, they were helpless there, those
two alone. Huldah and Dick must go.

Huldah's heart sank with overwhelming sorrow.  Was she really to be given up? was she to leave
her new home, her new happiness, her work, Mrs. Perry, Miss Rose,--all to go back to the old
torture?  Oh no, it could not be.  She could never bear it!  Mrs. Perry spoke as if she would
have to; but what would she herself do there alone?  She would be almost frightened to death.

Poor Huldah grew frantic.  "I am not going.  I can't go, and Miss Rose said you can't make
me.  I am not yours.  Oh, Miss Rose, Miss Rose do come and save us!"

With a little whimper of pain Dick crawled out of his corner and came towards her.  He seemed
to realise that his little mistress was in danger, and he meant to stand by her.

"Shut up your noise!" shouted her "uncle," and dealt her another sharp blow on the side of
the head.

Mrs. Perry screamed, and fell fainting into the chair, and with the same Tom Smith picked up
Huldah in his arms and made for the door.

The sound of footsteps and bitter cries died away in the lane, and a deep oppressive silence
followed.  The kettle sang and boiled and bubbled over, the supper burnt in the pan, the fire
died down, and still that senseless form lay huddled up in her chair, her white face turned
upwards to the ceiling, as though beseeching help.

Minutes passed before any sign of life came back to her, and with a shuddering sigh she opened
her eyes again.  At first she was dazed, and her mind a blank, then the open door, the empty
room, the stillness, brought all back to her in a sudden overwhelming rush of sorrow.

For a few moments she sat, weak, white, and trembling, trying to think; then rising stumblingly
to her feet she picked up her shawl, and wrapping it over her head and shoulders, she groped
her way out of the house, down the garden, and out into the darkness of the night.

Stumbling, tottering, having to pause every few minutes, to rest her shaking limbs and gasp
for breath, she made her way up the lane. She must find Miss Rose.  Miss Rose must know, Miss
Rose would help them!  Oh it must come right!  She could not lose her child and Dick.  She
could not live without them now!

Tears welled up, and poured down her ashy face, as she thought of those two, and what they
might be enduring now.

"Dear Father, protect them!" she prayed.  "Dear Jesus, take care of them!" and all the way
she went her pleadings beat at Heaven's gate for the two poor waifs she so loved.  "Dear Jesus,
protect them, and bring them back to me.  I love them so, and they are all I have."

Her heart laboured so heavily she could scarcely breathe, her head throbbed distractingly,
her limbs shook so much under her that she could scarcely drag herself along.  Every now and
then she fancied she heard a scream or Huldah's sobs; then again she thought she heard Dick's
bark, and each time she stopped and listened, and gazed into the darkness, but presently the
loneliness and darkness so oppressed her that she could not bring herself to stop again.  All
she could do was to stumble onward until the vicarage was reached, and arrived there she sank
down on the doorstep exhausted.  The fright and the walk, so long for her, had nearly killed her.

Dinah came quickly to the door, in response to the frightened frantic knock, and as she opened
it Martha Perry fell in at her feet, faint and helpless.

"My--Huldah"--she panted, "he's found her; he's taken her--away--and Dick too!  Help me--to--"
then, as they raised her and carried her into the kitchen, she lost consciousness entirely.

When she opened her eyes again Miss Rose was standing beside her. "Huldah! where's my Huldah?"
she cried, her poor eyes filling with tears.  "What--can we do?"

Miss Rose's face was very white, but her eyes were brave and smiling. "It's all right, Martha,
dear.  She will be back with you to-morrow, I hope.  We have sent to the police; they are to
take the matter up, and see it through, and we have telegraphed to Belmouth, and Woodleigh,
and Crinnock, to tell the police there to look out for the man, and stop him."

Mrs. Perry moaned with disappointment, she could not help it, when she thought of poor Huldah,
every moment going further and further from them all.  Longing, hoping, expecting every moment
that someone would overtake them and save her, straining her ears to hear help coming,--and
then, at last, in utter hopeless despair realising that she was left to herself, helpless,
broken-hearted!  She would not know that it was only for one night, and that help was coming
in the morning.

Martha tried to smile back at Miss Rose, and to seem pleased, but her misery was too great.
Then an idea came to her, which brought her swiftly to her feet, with new hope in her heart.
Perhaps, oh, perhaps, Huldah and Dick might manage again to escape!  If they did, they would
go to her, surely!  Of course she should be at home to receive them!  She told Miss Rose, and
though Miss Rose scarcely believed it possible, she thought it kinder to humour her,--besides
which there was just the chance,--a chance which could not be missed.

So the two went back to the cottage, where the lamplight still shone out cheerfully through
the open door.  For a moment hope leaped in their hearts, then a glance round the little kitchen
assured them that it was deserted still, and hope died down again.

"Never mind; morning will soon be here," said Miss Rose, hopefully, "and 'joy cometh with the
morning.'  Now I am going to make up a good fire, and I will read to you, and you must try,
Martha, dear, to listen, and not to think of anything else."

She made Martha comfortable in the old armchair, with her feet upon a stool, and a shawl about
her knees, then she took down the well-worn Bible, and began to read.  Her sweet voice rose
and fell evenly, soothingly; for more than an hour she read on, unwearied, never faltering,
selecting all the most helpful and comforting passages she could find; and by-and-by Martha
Perry's face grew less drawn and anxious, her sad eyes grew tired, then the lids closed in
a blessed, peaceful slumber, and Miss Rose's voice ceased, and silence fell on the little cottage.

The night sped on, the cold grew greater, the darkness deeper. Miss Rose sat quietly at the
table, the open Bible before her, keeping watch over the sleeping woman and the fire, her ear
always alert for a sound outside.  Her hearing grew so strained that over and over again she
thought she heard footsteps coming, Huldah's quick, brisk step and Dick's pat-pat patter; again
and again she tip-toed to the door, and opening it wide peered out into the darkness.  But
no real sound broke the silence, save the hoot of an owl, and by-and-by the chirping of the
waking birds.

Then at last day dawned, and streaks of light appeared in the sky, turning presently to a glorious
fiery radiance, as the sun rose, flooding the sky and all the world with brightness and with hope.

Martha Perry stirred stiffly in her chair, and opened her eyes. "Oh, Miss Rose, I've been asleep,
and left you keeping watch all by yourself!  Oh, I am ashamed!"

"Not by myself, Martha.  I had this," laying her hand on the open Bible, "and I felt God nearer
me than ever in my life before, I think.  He is going to help us, I know.  I feel that He has
given me His word this night!"

"She has not come?" sighed Martha, glancing round the kitchen, as though expecting to see Huldah
hiding somewhere.  "Oh, what a night of misery she must have endured!"

"She has not come yet, but she is coming, and brownie is very brave, Martha, and patient and
hopeful.  She has the blessed gift of making the best of what can't be helped, and she has
a wonderful faith. Look, Martha, look at the sky, does it not already sing to us 'joy cometh
with the morning'?"

Martha Perry walked to the door and looked out, and even her timid, doubting heart could not
but feel calmed and comforted.

"'God's in His heaven: All's right with the world,'" quoted Miss Rose, softly, as they stood
there together.  And already help was on its way to Huldah.

CHAPTER IX.

TO THE RESCUE.

When Bob Thorp awoke that same morning about six o'clock, his first thought was that he had
six shillings in his pocket.  Six shillings got without working for them, so that he had every
right to look on them as an extra, and spend them on himself.

Having made up his mind on this point, he lay for a happy half-hour, thinking how he should
lay it out to get most pleasure out of it. "Why, I know!" he almost exclaimed aloud, as a particularly
pleasant idea struck him.  "I'll go to the big football match at Crinnock. It's going to be
a clipper, they say.  Ain't I glad I thought of it! I shall have just enough to do it comfortably."

The idea so excited him that he jumped out of bed then and there, and, banging at his poor
mother's door, he bade her get up sharp, and light the fire, and get the breakfast, because
he had to be off early.  Then he dressed himself in the best he'd got, and presented himself
in the kitchen.

In answer to his mother's surprised looks and questionings, he explained that he had to go
away on business, in search of a job, and must look his best; and his mother, rejoicing in
the prospect of a day of freedom from him, cooked him the last egg she had, and gave him as
big a breakfast as he could eat; and he ate it heartily, without a qualm of conscience for
his deception towards her.

At the railway station he met quite a crowd, all going in the same direction as himself; neither
the darkness nor the cold could affect their energy or spirits, and Bob's spirits rose too,
as he followed the stream of travellers into the little gas-lit booking office for his ticket.

"Third return, Crinnock," he said, loudly, tossing a shining new florin on to the counter.

At the sound of it the booking clerk half hesitated in stamping the ticket he held in his hand,
glanced sharply at the florin, and hurriedly picking it up, scanned it closely.

"Bad 'un," he said, shortly, handing it back to Bob.  "Ninepence, please."  Then, seeing the
look of blank dismay on Bob's face, he added, "Been had?"

Bob's cheeks were white, and his hand shaking, as he dived in his pocket for the other two
florins,--the only money he possessed in the world.  He saw himself tricked, cheated out of
a day's pleasure, made to look small in everyone's eyes.

He turned out the two other florins upon the counter, and at the first ring of them on the
wood he knew the truth, and his passion blazed out fiercely against the man who had fooled
him under cover of the darkness.

"I'll have the law of him!" he stammered, almost speechless with anger.  "I know where he is,
or pretty near, and I'll set the p'lice on him, I will.  Why--why--I might have been had up
myself for trying to pass bad money!  Oh I'll make him sorry he ever tried his games on me,
I will!"

Back through the waiting crowd Bob elbowed his way, in search of a policeman.  His disappointment
about the football match was swallowed up in his longing for revenge.

"Look here, bobby," he said, going up to the constable who was standing on the platform to
see the crowd off peacefully.  "Look at this!" thrusting the coins under his very nose.  "Bad
money, that's what 'tis,--passed off on me last night!  But I know who done it, and where he
is,--leastways where he was last night, and he can't have got so very far.  He's Tom Smith,
the hawker, and he'd got his van in a field nigh 'pon the top of Woodend Lane last night--put
it there without a with-your-leave or a by-your-leave!  Trespassing, that's what he was, and
that's another thing you can have him up for. He was there to kidnap a child and a dog what
he said was his; but I'll bet they wasn't--and that's another thing against him. Of course
he'd move on as soon as he'd got the kid, but he can't have got so very far with that old horse
of his--he looked as if he'd drop dead if he was made to go another mile."

The policeman stayed to see the train depart with the crowd safely packed inside it, then turned
away with Bob.  He was as anxious as Bob himself to follow up the case.  Policemen did not
get much chance in little country places, and promotion came slowly.  "What was he giving you
six shillings for?" he asked, as Bob and he trudged up the hill from the station.

Bob looked foolish.  "Oh--for--for showing him the way," he stammered.

The policeman looked at him sharply.  "What way?" he asked.

"To--to Woodend Lane," he answered, shortly, wondering distractedly how he could avoid giving
true explanations; but the policeman, to his relief, did not press the matter further, and
whatever his thoughts were, he kept them to himself.

Presently he asked, casually, "Where was the child he wanted to get hold of?  In Woodend Lane?"

"Yes--I mean I dunno.  I don't know nothing about it."

"I only asked, 'cause we've had word to keep a look-out for a man, probably with a caravan,
who has stolen a child and a dog from Wood--"

"Why, look, what's that over there?" interrupted Bob, in sudden excitement.

"That over there" was a shabby brown caravan, hung about with tins and brushes, standing beneath
a high hedge in a corner of a distant field.  From the road beneath it, it would not be visible
to any passer-by, but looking across country as they were the glitter of the tins flashing
in the rays of the morning sun caught the eye, and discovered the van in its hiding-place.

"Here goes!" cried the policeman, excitedly.  "A chap don't get a chance like this every day.
Come along, young fellow, and don't make a noise."

Avoiding every possible risk of being observed approaching, Bob Thorp, led by the constable,
made his way to the field where the caravan stood.  Tethered to the hedge close by was Charlie,
and securely roped to the van lay poor Dick.

"That's the dog," whispered Bob Thorp, excitedly.

Dick growled slightly at the faint sounds which now reached him, and more violently when he
recognised his old enemy.

"Lie down, can't you?" bellowed a hoarse voice, roughly; and walking cautiously round to the
front of the van they found the very man they were in search of lying on the ground rolled
in a rug, with a couple of sacks over him.  At the sight of Bob Thorp and the policeman he
sprang to his feet at once.

"Anything you want, gentlemen?  Anything I can sell you?" he asked, impudently.  "A nice scrubbing-brush
or--"

"'Tis you needs the scrubbing-brush, by the looks on you," said Bob, cheekily.

"And I want you," said the constable, sharply.

"Want me?  What for?" he demanded, indignantly; but his face had suddenly turned an unhealthy
gray colour, and in his eyes they could plainly read his alarm.

"Passing bad money," answered the policeman, quietly.

"Who says so?  Who brought that charge against me?"

"'Im," the policeman jerked his head and his thumb towards Bob.

"And who's he, that his word should be took agin mine?  Who's to say he hasn't been passing
it himself, and--and of course he's got to put it off on someone, when he's found out."

"Well, you can fight that out before the magistrates.  You've got to come along of me now.
If you can explain it, that is all right, and you will soon be back again."

"All right," said Tom, agreeing, because he saw the uselessness of holding out.  His brain
was busy, though, trying to think out a plan. "I must just step inside, and break it to my wife--"

"Oh yes, and empty your pockets of all the rest of the bad money you've got!" burst out Bob,
unable to control himself.  "Likely tale that, eh!"

The policeman stepped over and laid his hand on Tom Smith's shoulder.  "There's one or two
other little matters too," he said. "You're wanted for some little affair about a girl and
a dog. Is that the dog?"

"She's my own niece--"

"Is she?  All right; you've only got to prove it, and that you're her lawful guardian, and
a fit and proper person--"

A sharp scream suddenly rent the air, and made them all start. Emma Smith, waking from her
heavy sleep, had heard the sound of voices, and looking cautiously out of the window, had caught
sight of the policeman grasping her husband by the arm.  Day and night for years she had been
fearing this, and now it had actually happened! The shock was too much for her.  Scream after
scream pierced their ears, as she staggered out of the van and flung herself upon her husband.

The screams, which roused Dick to a fury of barking, and startled even poor old worn-out Charlie,
wakened Huldah from the deep sleep into which she had fallen, exhausted by sorrow.

Springing from her bed, she saw the policeman, and that he had his hand on her uncle, holding
him securely, in spite of Aunt Emma's attack.  But why was Bob Thorp there, too?  Huldah recognised
him with a shock of surprise and fear.

For a moment she gazed frightened yet fascinated at the group, then across her mind flashed
the thought, Here was her chance of escape! Quick as thought she caught up a knife from the
table, and slipping down the steps cut the rope which held Dick, then, sheltered from view
by the van itself, she clambered through the hedge with the dog at her heels, and away and
away as fast as her feet could cover the ground.  Her aunt's screams deadened any other noise,
and her aunt's furious attack took all the attention of the three men, so that escape was easy.

It never entered Huldah's head that the policeman had come on her account, and that she was
safer now than ever in her life before. She did not know there had been time to communicate
with the police, and the one thought that had filled her mind all these weary hours was escape,
and getting back to Mrs. Perry.

At first she raced wildly, but before very long her strength gave out, her excitement died
down.  Her pace grew slower and slower, more and more halting, and then finally she stopped.
Thoughts of her Aunt Emma would force themselves on her mind.  If her uncle was taken to jail,
her aunt would be left alone with the horse and van. What would she do, day and night alone?
How could she manage? Could she, Huldah, go and leave her like that!--but could she live that
dreadful life again!  Every day going further and further from Miss Rose and Mrs. Perry, and
the dear little cottage, never perhaps to see them again!  Huldah sat down on a bank underneath
the hedge, to try and think the matter out.  Dick came back from his happy wanderings and sat
beside her, staring at her with wistful eyes, for he saw that she was in trouble, but why she
should be was more than he could understand,--for were they not away together, and on their
way home?

He gave a little whine, and Huldah looked up at him.  "Oh, Dick, what can I do?  Mrs. Perry
will be so frightened there alone, and she'll be troubling about us so, and--and there's Miss
Rose too"--more tears trickled down Huldah's cheeks,--"yet I can't go and leave Aunt Emma all
alone now, with the van and Charlie to look after, and Uncle Tom in jail.  Oh, what can I do?
what can I do!"

Dick was puzzled too, but at that moment a fresh burst of screams burst on her ears, terrible,
noisy screams, and bitter cries and shoutings.  Tom Smith was being led away by the constable,
and his wife had flung herself on the ground in hysterics, real or feigned.

Huldah crept back to the hedge and peered through.  Her heart was heavy as lead.  Her body
ached with the blows she had received the night before, and her head throbbed painfully too,
but these were as nothing compared with the pain of her poor little aching disappointed heart.
On the other side of the hedge she saw her aunt lying on the ground, sobbing, screaming, and
beating the ground with her fists.

Huldah crept back through the hedge, and up to her side.  "Aunt Emma, don't take on like that,"
she said, gently, trying to comfort her. "He'll be back soon.  They won't do anything to him,
for certain." She little dreamed how black the case was against him.

But the sight of the girl seemed to change her aunt's overwhelming grief to sudden and violent
anger against herself.  Springing to her feet, she snatched the heavy whip from the van, and
brought it down with all the force of which she was capable across Huldah's shoulders.

"It's all your fault!" she screamed, "it's all your fault!  It was only to get hold of you
that he offered the fellow the money, and if you hadn't run away he'd never have had to do
it.  'Tis all your fault he's took, and I'll make you smart for it, my lady!" and seizing the
poor shrinking, frightened child, she beat her until her arm dropped to her side exhausted.

"Stop that!" cried a stern voice, loudly.  Huldah and her aunt fell back, shocked and startled
by the sight of another policeman close to them.  In the noise and excitement they had not
heard anyone approaching.  "Give me that whip."

Huldah gave one terrified glance at the man in blue, and fell fainting at his feet.

Emma Smith handed over the whip meekly enough.  She was thoroughly scared now, for she never
doubted that Huldah was dead, and that the policeman would declare that she had killed the
child.  In her terror for herself, her anxiety about her husband was forgotten.  She began
to wail and sob and beg forgiveness.  She threw herself on the ground, calling loudly to Huldah
to open her eyes and get up. She tried coaxings and all sorts of promises, but the policeman
only thrust her aside.

"Go and get some cold water," he said, sternly.

She crept away meekly, and presently brought back a little drop in a broth basin.  "That's
all there is," she said, apologetically. It was very little, but with it the big man bathed
the child's face and hands, and dabbed her lips and her brow.

"Go and get a blanket," he ordered.  "She oughtn't to be lying on the cold wet ground so long.
She doesn't seem to be coming round." He felt Huldah's pulse, and laid his hand over her heart.
"It is beating," he muttered, in a tone of relief.  Then he lifted her on to the blanket, and
wrapped her in it, then bathed her brow again, until presently a faint quiver of the body and
a fluttering sigh showed that consciousness was returning.

At last Huldah opened her eyes and looked vaguely about her, wondering where she was.  At sight
of her aunt and the policeman the old look of terror came back to her face, and she struggled
to sit up.

"Don't you hurry yourself, now," said the policeman, kindly. "And don't you be afraid of me.
I've come to look after you, and take you back to your friends."

"You can't," muttered Emma Smith, sullenly.  "She's mine. The child's right enough; they all
want a hiding sometimes."

"Sometimes, perhaps, but not constant; and never as you lays it on. I should be taking you
up for murder if you did it often in your way!"

Emma Smith only looked more sullen.  "Well, she's mine, and no one else's, and I'm going to
keep her."

"Look here, my woman, what's the good of going on like that? You've got to prove, first of
all, that she is yours, and then that you're a fit and proper person to have her.  In the meantime
I've got my orders to fetch her away, and if you want her you can apply to the magistrates,
and prove to them all that you've been saying. Now, then, where's her bonnet and shawl?"

"She hasn't got any," sulkily.

"Then you've got to provide her with some.  Hurry up; but first of all, has she had anything
to eat or drink to-day?"

"No, nor won't have.  I haven't got anything for myself."

"That seems unlucky; but if you'll come along of me you shall have a good cup of tea and a
bit of breakfast.  Now then, missie, are you ready?"

Huldah had sat speechless all this time.  She felt giddy and ill, and quite worn out.  She
was so dazed too, she could not think what to do, or what she ought to do.  Things seemed to
have got beyond her, and to be taken out of her hands.

She struggled to her feet, and let the policeman wrap her, head and all, in the old shawl.
She wondered vaguely if she would feel better able to walk when once she had started; but even
the standing on her feet seemed too much for her, and it was with a real sense of relief that
she felt the man lift her in his arms and stride away with her.

No word of farewell was said, but in a moment or two she heard her aunt's rough voice calling
after them, "You've no right to that dog, and if you takes him I'll have the law of you!"

The policeman stopped, and turned round.  "Oh, by the way, I've forgot one thing now.  I want
to see your dog-licence."

But Emma Smith only walked away into the van muttering angrily, and banging the door after
her, left them to go their way in peace.

Huldah scarcely knew how that walk passed.  She was conscious now and then of a feeling of
shame, for letting herself be carried. She felt she ought to walk, but before she could say
so the old faintness stole over her again, and she knew that to walk was beyond her power.
Now and then she heard the policeman talking in a friendly voice to Dick, who walked close
beside them, and Dick's excited bark.  She was wondering how much further they had to go, when
they drew up, and Huldah found herself being laid on a wooden bench in a room where two or
three policemen were standing round a fire.

To her surprise, she was no longer afraid of them, they were too kind and gentle for that.
One of those standing by the fire, an elderly man, came over to where she lay.

"Well, young woman," he said, cheerfully, "and when did you have anything to eat last?  Day
before yesterday, by the look of you."

Huldah tried to remember.  "It wasn't quite so long ago as that," she said, feebly.  "I had
some dinner--yesterday, I think.  When was yesterday?"

The man laughed.  "Don't you worry," he said, kindly; "you've been living two days in one,
and have got muddled.  You will feel better when you've had a basin of hot bread and milk.
Bring her over to the fire, Harry, she's starved with the cold." Reflected after all, with maturity and resolution who asked
the critical circumstances in which it was, that pastor facilitóle 200 mules he asked, and made
a bet on the post Morara, distant three leagues Moxo, highway Potosi, and at the same time meant
he could not alter all orders to continue their march, to join with Flores and save the city of La
Plata that was so carefully by the blockade that made him suffer the Indians, under the leadership
of the two brothers Cataris, whose loss would be responsible for their detention, without any
delay and said some items, for occupied by roads and pregnant women to step forward because
it is addressed, with order to observe the movements of the enemy, with some distance and
concealment, sought certification of the true intention of those troops. Full of confidence
and reinforced something with them, believed that shortly before they had no recourse but
to escape, was launched the same evening of that day, March 16, and field Moraja all appearance
of the night at the camp, taking precautions to avoid the serious risk that threatened him everywhere.
He put the tents, campfires, and dinner with the troops soon, and end of the day again ordered
to take refresher mules I had anticipated, leaving the camp with only 20 men in charge of a
veteran official was moving with great caution and silence, and they left right at the Suipacha
town of La Plata Road, took the left, who led Tupiza, preventing the officer was in the field,
take care with accuracy and security, remain on fires, and pass the word all night, also leaving
the order, so that before the new day dawn broke camp, and follow in his footsteps with the luggage
and baggage he had left.

This movement was performed with both order and military prowess, which eluded the careful vigilance
with which they watched the rebels, who were shocked to the first
lights the next day, not knowing how, and where they had disappeared
Reseguin.

Tupiza Moraya far 10 miles of very rocky road, half slopes and gullies, and half of the deep
ravine, where a river drops to wade many times, and as two leagues from that town, it is inevitable
a narrow half a quarter of a league that can not go more than two men in front, and sides
have steep crags of extraordinary height, forming a winding alley, well adapted to a small
number containing male and resist the most numerous army. Indians were not ignorant of the excellence
of that position, as experience has shown that knowledge and skill for the election advantageous
situations, reason why he had chosen to oppose the first resistance the troops of the King,
considering that when they reach it, they would be tired to overcome obstacles, which by degrees
grew, and as they approached, because the natives the way, we added on this occasion the river
flow, which in some fords spent with hard work and no little danger, heightened by the darkness of
night. Overcome with diligence and record all odds, came to the natural troop strength to that
art could not add circumstance, which is recognized by certain items that were formed of the
Spanish fugitives were practical ground, and found it empty, and continued progress, not without
some shock, because when it was in the middle of danger, there was a snap of the sling and some
stones were hurled from the top. All were suspended, believing they had been felt by the enemies,
but the commander, encouraged his resolution, turned and said, "and the danger is inevitable,
what matters is to leave him soon." And fueling the pace, he commanded all to follow him: in
fact, managed to cross the narrow without resistance, and go to another more spacious ravine where
he had already taken place for the imagination to justified hopes for a happy success. No instant
Reseguin miscarried, and making high met his extensive training by the regular effects of the pass,
extended his his forehead allowed him as the greatest width of the road, divided the 200 men
who had five divisions, four of a kind, under the command of veteran officers, and most was to theirs.
Each one said a villager, to be directed and bet on the spot noted, and after talking to his
soldiers with courage, representing its obligation, who were to observe the order, obedience
and resolution in the act, dubbed the care and silence to go to Tupiza. Came to this town at 4
am on day 17, and sent immediately surrounding the games, which occupied the entire circumference,
so that no come out of it, and with it came through the main street and headed to the main square
but until then he had felt his neighbors or the rebels who were delivered sleep with more
confidence, and by the contempt that made the small number of troops which threatened, for
the distance at which they were the preceding day.

His first care was to ensure the main leader Luis Laso de la Vega, which set by himself lived
in the house, calling his name, to which he replied bitterly, because it was uncomfortable,
but reproduced from the outside that was in great danger, because were already very close to
King's arms, stood up, half-dressed and appeared in person at the door with a blunderbuss in
hand. But beating the action, stood a visit to see that expected, lacking movement, even to give
impetus to trigger regular effects causes to the traitors of the
magnitude of his crime, to the Judge, who await punishment.

Siguiéronse prison without halting its secretary, Fermin Aguirre, sugeto Spanish and not of common
birth, who for the ambitious fantasy of having appointed Viceroy of that province, embraced the
seditious party, and others who were decorated with several titles, to divide the husband
of the four that had been proposed rule: and exhalation as a visiting its troops commanded all near
the village, at two miles away, who managed to secure to the other accomplices of the mob.
So, afternoon were 100 inmates in the prisons of the main and most had distinguished themselves
in this conspiracy. Were taken by the commander after all precautions and Orders convenient
to make a sorpesa, and those required to resist the rebels, if they tried to invade the town,
as stated, to liberate their leaders. Placed double advanced guard, chose the church to make
a last stand, ordered rounds, appointed patrol, ordered the accuracy of the service, and increased
their vigilance and care in proportion increasing their risk. Militia called Suipacha people,
who were by the King and Tarija, reinforcing the few relics that had remained faithful, and before
unfair that they could recover the terror instilled by arms of the Sovereign, the resolution
of that operation, the unexpected imprisonment of their leaders, and of all the circumstances action
as occurring in particular, named items to avoid the damage that followed on all bounds of the province
that were moved, and that the rebels committed atrocious cruelties, forcing the inhabitants to come
fugitives Spanish, to welcome the shadow of the newly arrived troops. Diary was helpless widows
and orphans afflicted, that by abandoning their farms, and home comforts, they met in Tupiza to
Commander exposes his sufferings, with the loss of his parents, husbands and property which I had
taken the rigor of tyrants, aggressors, who egercitaron their barbarism, with more excess elsewhere
in the minerals we took, Ubinas, Tatasi, Portugalete and Great Chocalla, insulting to the priests,
desecrating the temples, and committing the most sacrilegious deaths in them, large theft, shattering
the mills, and destroying the work mine. Reseguin Oíales affably, consoled them all with tenderness,
and looking ofrecíales for them, as a parent beneficial for their children, promised to restore
them their property, and shed the last drop of blood in its defense, and for such a just cause.

The
sedition of this province had some circumstances, which is more frightening to the general
that undergoes in Peru, and could have given much care, unless it been cut so timely progress. The
principal author and head of her, Luis Laso de la Vega, was caste cholos, more Spanish than Indian,
and was serving sergeant as those militias, whom was accompanied by a bold and some special
genius that they made a distinction between his own. This wicked, favored by the mayor, D. Francisco
Garcia de Prado, corresponded to his benefactor with the greatest ingratitude, forging this
plot, to usurp the command of the provinces of Chichas, Lipes, Cinti and Porco, taking advantage
of fermentation that had caused the edicts and measures of main commissioners Tupac Amaru rebels,
and other movements, which also forced the mayor to collection of some ammunition, and to assemble
in Tupiza militia regiment of that name, cholos and mestizos compound, which served Laso,
who was called to his ambitious and daring thoughts, March 6, taking
the spot of the journal, to touch the spirits of his fellow soldiers,
who were soon to be seduced, and shaking the reins of obedience, began
dictating to them how excesses will and suggested to the leader egemplo
which followed the Indians and the village surrounding, growing in
such turmoil acceleration, which disappointed Prado of any fruit they
produced their persuasion and authority, had no recourse but to seek
asylum in his house with some of their own.

Besieged in Laso it with a flood crowd, vainly tried to break his horse sometimes favorable than
it had to be on the run and run the risk that at moments grew, but their efforts were useless
watching to find out, decided to defend until ultimately favored the doors and windows of
your house, from where it started to fire at the crowd that had surrounded him, which made
the same way; lasting the confusion until midnight, when dead and some other tired and weak to continue the
defense, the rebels managed to burn down the house, and blow up the spare powder that had collected
for munitions that troop, and dropped a canvas wall penetrated to corral the Indian Nicolas Martinez,
and found her dazed in a corner mayor, approached to him and promptly beheaded him, and he
drank much of his blood. Could have been saved if undertaken in advance would escape, as well as advising
some sugetos intentioned, but it was less sensitive die than abandon their interests acquired
at the expense of general discontent, which put him in that state and situation.

After the assailant released the death of his mayor and others who accompanied him, entered the
rebels at home, inasmuch as it had been ransacked, and during the night made many excesses and disorders
in the population and its surroundings, as in the estate of Salo, where Indians encouraged
by the example of Tupiza, plotted against its owner, D. Paxsi Salvador, whom was beheaded and
captured the substantial assets she possessed: through which and others of like nature, Laso rid
of that could cause sugecion sugetos, and now free from this obstacle, he thought only the domain
to ensure that proposed. It headlined Governor and Captain General of that province by Tupac Amaru,
by issuing without loss of time, his secretary Aguirre, circulars and announcements for all
the jurisdiction in which ordered, under the severe penalties, join him to contribute to the defense
common, shake the misrule and oppression in which the magistrates had placed the customs, excises
and other branches of finance, again established. The parish priest of villa, Dr. D. José Dávalos,
tried to dissuade them from the principles and quiet, using the most humble supplications and
efficient trades, but did not get more than permission to give burial to the bodies, whose
diligence practiced with the greatest piety, was not enough to contain such tensions, which lost
the obedience and respect to justice, they soon also lost in the Lord's house, entering it as a
portion riotously Indians filled with rage, they dug up the corpse of Prado, and cut off his
head, took the audience de la Plata, as declared some, or his Inca, according deposed others.
The truth is, the Indian governor of the town of Santiago de Cotagaita, who had remained loyal to
the center of the rebellion, sought and gave him burial in the church
its people with all due solemnity, and turned to the Indians that
led to suffer the punishment he justly deserved such a criminal offense,
but this example, neither the repeated measures practiced by some
neighbors honest, prevented all parties submit to pay obedience to
the usurper, the chiefs, governors, second and curacas, ensuring support
their ideas to sacrifice their lives and property for freedom.

Such was the state in which they were those provinces, when the commander D. José Reseguin came
to them with their small number of troops. The weight of such grave care, and the crowd obstacles
he encountered and that at times were increased, were not enough to stop him nor to intimidate,
rather, knowing how convenient it was not losing a moment in such Occasionally, immediately gave
the highest activity to the remedy of so many grown evil, constantly seeking the most appropriate
and effective remedies to prevent them.

She had always been one of those who are so full of pity for themselves that they never have
time to feel pity for others.

By the time the meal was finished Huldah's mind was made up. She must talk to Miss Rose about
things.  The matter seemed so puzzling, so complicated, she could not sort out the right and
the wrong of it at all.  It was all beyond her.  Aunt Martha fell in with the plan at once.

"Mrs. Smith can stay here with me till you come back," she said, hospitably; and the visitor
agreed eagerly.

The storm was over by that time, but the air was oppressive, and the heat great.  Huldah walked
along very soberly, for there was a sense of depression weighing on her, a foreboding that
an end was coming to her happy, peaceful life.  There was always trouble when any part of her
old life cropped up again.

She was ashamed, too, to be troubling Miss Rose again about her affairs; she felt she had done
little but bring trouble to them all ever since she had walked into their lives that summer's
night a year ago.  She who longed to bring them nothing but pleasure!

Just then she came to the top of the little hill up which Rob had crawled that winter morning,
and once again the words Miss Rose had sung came back to her, as though they still lingered
on the air there,

    "Keep Thou my feet; I do not ask to see
     The distant scene,--one step enough for me."

Huldah sang them aloud as she descended the slope, and the load of care slipped off her heart,
leaving her with a brave determination to face courageously whatever might have to be faced.

CHAPTER XI.

HULDAH'S NEW HOME.

And there was very much to be faced, she found as the days came and went, for within a week
of that afternoon when Emma Smith crossed her path again, much had been discussed and arranged,
and another change was to come into Huldah's life.

The doctor, the vicar's own doctor, had seen and examined Emma Smith, and had given her but
another year to live.  He had not told her that, but he had warned her very gravely that she
was in a very bad state of health, and that he would not answer for the consequences, if she
did not obey him; and something in his voice or manner had stopped her peevish complainings,
and set her thinking seriously.

The doctor strongly urged that she should go to the workhouse infirmary.  "She will be well
nursed and looked after there," he said, "and she will be provided with all she requires,"
but she herself showed such violent opposition that at last, in fear for her health, they ceased
to press it.  Had they done so, she would surely have run away.  At the same time she had no
other home, no means, and what powers she had had of earning any were fast failing her.

"I thought you'd be able to help me, now you'm getting on so well," she said to Huldah.  "We
fed and clothed and did everything for you, and now's your chance of returning some of it."
Then her mood changed, and she wept and moaned, and clung to the girl passionately. "Don't
you leave me!" she pleaded, hysterically; "don't you go and turn your back on me, too.  You
was mine before you was hers," nodding her head towards Mrs. Perry.

Her clinging to Huldah was more than a passing fancy, as they found, when they tried to get
her to go into a home where she could have had rest and change and food and nursing.  She sobbed
and pleaded, then flatly refused to go, unless Huldah went too.

"She's the only one in the world I know," she cried.  "Don't send me away with strangers, they'll
all look down on me, and--and I--no, I couldn't bear it.  I won't go, I won't, I won't! I'll
go off on the tramp again, where none of you will ever find me, and I won't ever bother any
of you any more."

At last Huldah went with tears in her eyes to Miss Carew.  "I'll have to go with her, miss,"
she said, piteously.  "She can't go away on the tramp all by herself.  I can keep us both pretty
well.  I must go with her, Miss Rose, wherever she goes; she hasn't got anybody else."

This of course they could not allow.  They could never send such a child as Huldah out into
the world, with only a dying woman as companion and protector, to live where and how she could,
in nobody knew what dreadful haunts.  So it was decided between them that Emma Smith was to
settle down amongst them, and Huldah must leave Mrs. Perry and go to live with her.  No lodgings
could be found for her, for in that village the houses were not big enough to hold in comfort
even the families that lived in them, and there was certainly no room for a lodger.  And houses
were as scarce as lodgings.

At last a brilliant idea came to Miss Carew, and with her father's permission she hurried off
with the good news.

"You shall have the two rooms over our coach-house," she cried, delightedly, for it was a real
relief to her to feel that Huldah would be so near her, and under her own eye.  "They are a
good size, and dry and airy; and we must all pull together to get what furniture we can."

Huldah's face grew brighter and brighter with every word Miss Rose uttered, for she had begun
to fear that they would have to go elsewhere.

To be near Miss Rose, too, would help to make up for the pain of leaving Aunt Martha and Dick
and the cottage, a parting which had been weighing on her more heavily than she would have
liked anyone to know.  Dick, it was decided, was to remain with Mrs. Perry, for without him
she declared she could not live on in the cottage when Huldah was gone.

As soon as the rooms had been cleaned and papered, the furnishing began, and that was really
rather fun.  No one was rich, and no one could give much, but what they gave they gave with
a will. Miss Rose turned out some sheets and pillow-cases, a table and a chair, the vicar ordered
in half a ton of coal, the doctor's wife gave them a bed, some pieces of carpet, curtains,
a kettle and an old basket chair.  Mrs. Perry gave a teapot, cups and saucers, and a rag-rug
of her own making.  The doctor sent in some pots and pans, and meat and other food to put in
them, and the folks in the village, who had come to know Huldah's story, turned out something,
and sent, a jug, a brush, a sack of firewood, a bar of soap, and all manner of odds and ends,
every one of which came in usefully.  Huldah's own little bed and looking-glass and odds and
ends came from her bedroom in the cottage, and all together helped to make the two bare rooms
look home-like and comfortable.

The furniture was scanty and shabby, but to anyone accustomed to rough it as Emma Smith had
done, the place was beautiful, and full of comfort and rest.

When it was ready, and she was first taken into it, she dropped into the basket chair by the
fire, and burst into grateful tears. It was the first time she had shown any gratitude or pleasure
in what was being done for her.

"It's like 'ome," she sobbed, weakly, "and I've never had one since I got married, till now,--and
now--how I'm ever going to thank everybody, I don't know.  I never seem able to do any good
to anybody, I don't.  'Tis all take, with me, and no give, and I'm ashamed of it."

Huldah felt some of the load slip off her spirits as she looked about her.  Here really was
a home for Aunt Emma,--and now it rested with herself to make it as neat and comfortable and
happy as a home could be.  She would keep it as clean as a new pin, and as pretty as lay in
her power.  She tried to conquer her sadness by hard work, to put away her sorrow at leaving
Aunt Martha and Dick and their happy life together.

"Brownies always go where there's most to be done, Miss Rose says, not where they'll be most
comfortable," she said to herself, bravely, but her poor little face was very wistful.  A few
days later, though, when, after a long day's work, she sat down and looked about her, she remarked
cheerfully, "I don't think anybody can go on feeling very miserable when they've lots to do
and somebody to take care of." A glow of pride warmed her heart, as she sat there drying her
water-soaked hands, and glanced from the gleaming stove and fire-irons to the speckless window,
and well-scrubbed table.

On the table stood a jar full of autumn flowers, and on the window-sill a box full of brown
earth and little roots, double daisies, primulas, wallflowers.  This last was Huldah's special
joy and pride.

"We'll have a proper little garden there, when the spring comes," she remarked proudly to Aunt
Emma.

Aunt Emma shook her head in melancholy fashion.  "I shan't be here to see it."

"Oh yes you will.  You'll be helping me with the spring cleaning," said Huldah, trying to keep
cheerful,--one of the hardest of her daily tasks, for Aunt Emma's melancholy seldom left her.
She never saw the bright side of anything, poor soul, nor the best, nor did she try to; and
the depressingness of it told on the child's spirits more than anyone knew.

She worked very hard indeed at this time.  The vicar had given them the rooms rent-free; but
Huldah's basket-making had to supply almost everything else--food, clothing, lights, and many
an extra--needed for Aunt Emma.  Their rooms were few, and there was not much in them, but
all that had to be done fell to Huldah to do.  Emma Smith never put her hand to anything, not
even to wash a dish, cook a meal, or make her own bed.  She needed a great deal of waiting
on, too, and was very fretful.  She did not like to be left alone, even while Huldah went out
to do the errands; and on the days when the poor child had to go to Belmouth to deliver her
work, or get more raffia, Aunt Emma had always a very bad turn, and an attack of melancholy.

It was quite pathetic to see the way she clung to the little waif she had treated so cruelly
when she had her in her power.  She wanted no one but Huldah now, and she wanted her always.
She loved her brightness and cheerfulness.  When Huldah laughed and sang she was quite content,
but the moment she was sad or quiet, Aunt Emma would grow peevish and uneasy.

"You'm fretting because you've got to stay here with me, I know. You'm longing to be back with
that Mrs. Perry.  I know it's 'ard to 'ave to live with a poor miserable creature like me,
and I wonder you can bear it as well as you do."

Then she would burst into tears.  It never occurred to her that she might try to make it less
miserable for Huldah, by trying to be cheerful herself sometimes.

"I'm not fretting.  I love taking care of you," pleaded poor Huldah. "I was only trying to
think how to make a new-shaped basket that people might take a fancy to.  Shall I read to you,
Aunt Emma?"

Emma Smith loved being read to, and hour after hour Huldah spent over a book when she knew
she ought to be at her basket-making.  To try to make up the time, she got up at four or five
in the morning, but in the winter that meant burning oil, and they could not afford that. Then
one day it occurred to her to sing instead of reading, and after that she found things easier,
for she could sing while she worked.

It was a strange medley of songs that echoed through the rooms in the thin child-like voice.
"Home, sweet Home,"  "Father, dear Father, come Home,"  "God save the King,"  "The Old Folks
at Home," were some of their favourites, and if the words and air were not always correct,
they never failed to bring pleasure to both performer and audience.

Of hymns Huldah had a greater store in her brain, and by degrees these ousted the songs as
favourites.

"Sing that one about the green hill without any wall round it," Aunt Emma said one day.  "It
does mind me so of 'ome when we were children.  Our cottage was just at the foot of a hill
like that, and mother used to turn us out there to play together by the hour. It was what they
call a mountain.  We used to dare each other to go to the top."

"Did you ever do it?" asked Huldah, plaiting away industriously.

"Never; we was so afraid.  It was so high up, and the top looked so far away, and--oh, it used
to frighten me!  I'd dream at night that I was lost up there, and I'd call and call, and nobody
ever heard me or came to save me."

"He'd have saved, if you'd asked Him," said Huldah, gravely.

"I wonder why He didn't save Himself," said Aunt Emma.  "I spose He could have, couldn't He?"

"Oh yes, He could, and He could have struck all His enemies down dead if He'd liked, only He
was always one for thinking about others, never about Himself."

"And that's the sort that always gets put upon," said Aunt Emma, quickly.

    "He died that we might go to Heaven,
     He died to make us good,
     He died that we might be forgiven--"

Aunt Emma's voice failed, and she suddenly burst into tears. "I couldn't never be good enough,"
she sobbed, piteously.  "I haven't been good since I was a child, and now I'm going to die--I
know it, I feel it, I see it in the doctor's face, and--and everybody's. I've got to die, and
just when I'm happy for the first time. He says He loves everybody, but nobody ever loved me,
I never gave 'em reason to, and--and I'm afraid to die, Huldah!  I've been so bad, and it'll
be so lonely!  I wouldn't mind so much if there was somebody over--over the other side that
loved me."

There had been a footstep on the stair, but neither of them had heard it, and when Miss Rose
entered the room neither of them saw her, for their eyes were blinded with tears.

"Oh, Aunt Emma!" cried Huldah, springing to her bedside, "I love you! I do, I do, and--and
oh, I wish someone would tell you all about it, so that you'd understand, and feel happy!"

A soft, light step crossed the room, and a gentle hand was laid on Huldah's bowed head.  "Dear,
shall I try?  Shall we try together?"

Huldah sprang to her feet with a glad cry.  "Oh, Miss Rose, I was longing for you to come.
You can tell Aunt Emma."

Miss Rose sat down beside the bed, and laid her hand gently on Emma's hand.  "I wish I was
more clever," she said, wistfully.  "I wish I could make you feel how dearly Jesus has always
loved you, how He has wept for you and longed for you, how He has forgiven you all the neglect
and insults you have heaped on Him, and has held out His arms, beseeching you to come to Him!
At this very moment He is standing at the door, patiently waiting for you to let Him in. Will
you keep Him outside, dear Emma?"

Miss Rose's voice died away, and silence reigned in the darkening room; the fire fell together
and sent up a cheerful flame, Emma Smith lay thinking,--"Was it really true that He wanted
her?"  That she had turned her back on Him, and mocked and insulted Him, she knew, knew better
than anyone else could,--and could He really love her in spite of all?

Miss Rose's voice broke the silence, singing softly,

    "Knocking, knocking, who is there?
     Waiting, waiting, oh, how fair!
     Knocking, knocking--what, still there?
     Waiting, waiting, grand and fair,
     Yes, the pierced hand still knocketh,
     And beneath the crowned hair
     Beam the patient eyes, so tender,
     Of the Saviour, waiting there."

Low sobs broke from the poor soul on the bed, sobs of grief and joy and repentance.  "If He
really cares--if He is really like that!" she sobbed.  "Oh, I want Him!  I do want Him to love
and take care of me, too!"

Miss Rose's arms were round her, her lips were on her brow. "My dear, He is all that, and more.
He will take care of you always, in this world and the next.  He will love you so that you
cannot feel lonely any more.  Put your hand in His, put all your troubles off on His shoulders,
trust Him, and follow where He leads you, and nothing can harm you.  Don't be afraid.  He will
lead you to a home, and love and happiness such as no one could know in this world, where we
are all so weak and full of faults."

"Home!  Will it seem like home?" she asked, timidly.

    "I'll soon be at home, over there,
        For the end of my journey I see,
     Many dear to my heart over there
        Are watching and waiting for me,
          Over there, over there,
     I'll soon be at home over there."

sang Huldah, softly.  The flame died down, and left the room very dim, but still the three
sat on, silent, thoughtful.  Miss Rose sat between them, holding a hand of each.

"I expect 'twas Him as led me back to Huldah,"  said the weak voice, presently.

"Yes, dear.  He was bringing you together, that all might be made happy between you."

"I am very glad He did.  'Twas more'n I deserved--after the way I'd treated one of His."

Huldah threw herself across the bed, her arms thrown round the dying woman.  "Aunt Emma--Aunt
Emma, don't!  That's all forgotten. I deserved what I got.  It's all over now; don't let's
remember it any more!"

"Will you tell--Him you've forgiven me?"

"Yes, oh yes; but He knows, there's no need to tell Him.  He knows we love each other now,--oh,
Aunt Emma, if you can only get well, how happy we shall be!"

Miss Rose got up and stirred the fire to a blaze again.  Her heart was glad, yet sad.  Glad
that this poor soul was coming to her Father, but at the same time sad, for she knew how little
hope there was of Huldah's wish coming to pass.  It was sweet, though, to the dying woman to
hear the wish from the child she had ill-treated and neglected so long, and she clasped her
to her in a paroxysm of love. 

With the many Indians who had assembled to Tupac Amaru, and weapons that had already been seized, decided
to go on Cuzco, to take possession of this city, and made his attempt, crown on it, as the ancient
capital of the Peruvian empire, with all the solemnities to imitate the custom of his old powers.
Availed of this population many fugitives from the provinces immediately, which frightened of
the damage caused the tyrant, but did not think their lives for that environment, and when
they were imagining leaving the city, and it was futile trying to resist the rebel, prevented D. Manuel
Villalta, mayor Abancay, who had served in the royal army with the rank of lieutenant colonel. This
game officer, ignoring the fears, and the experience of their profession, those spirits up shot,
he picked up the militia, and ordered things so difficult to project Rebel, who contributed much to
the chiefs and Chicheros Ink, Rozas and Pumacagua, whose loyalty and the Chuquiguancas, shone
like a bright star in the middle of the black darkness of the rebellion, offering the gift of
loyalty worth sacrificing some lives of their families and all the farms they owned.

Known by the tyrant how hard it was to take the Cuzco, abandoned the
effort, after some attacks, which was rejected by its neighbors gloriously,
directed and governed by Villalta, who removed a dam hand that already
had, and lost that hope, contracted to continue the raids and robberies
against the Spanish.

Declared and everywhere war, and people and campaign without resistance, they could escape the
first insults, fled to the cities and villages that were more immediate. In Cochabamba only,
parts of the Yungas (with whom valleys bordered by Ayopaya), came more 5,000 people of both sexes and
all ages, who led the mayor, D. José Albisuri.


Suddenly the light and eagerness died out of her face.  "Charlie--and the van!" she cried,
growing white to the lips.  "I've got to tell him,--he'll never forgive me."  Her lips quivered
piteously.

"He knows," said Miss Rose, soothingly.  "I told him.  I thought it better to explain quickly
what had happened, and not let him be expecting to find them too."

She did not tell of the scene there had been when first he had heard of the loss, nor the difficulty
they had had in persuading him to see his wife, and be kind to her.  "I don't want her; 'twas
the horse and van I wanted," he said, cruelly.

He was not really as cruel, though, as he appeared.  He seemed quite touched when he heard
of his wife's starving state when she came in search of Huldah, and of her condition now, and
expressed a desire to see her.  "I won't say nothing to upset her," he promised, when they
seemed to hesitate.

Huldah's face had turned even whiter than Emma's, when she heard who was near, and what he
wanted, her fear of him had been so increased since he carried her away by force that night.
But when she saw how eager her aunt was to see him, she did try to overcome her fears.

Within a few moments of Miss Rose's telling of her "news," he was there, in their midst.  To
pale, trembling Huldah, whose every nerve had been set quivering by the mere sound of his step
on the stair, he threw only a cool nod, as, awkwardly enough, he made his way to his wife's
bedside, and sat down beside her.

"I hear you'm bad," he said, coolly, but it was plain that her altered appearance shocked him.
Every now and again, when she was not looking, he gave long wondering glances at her, and his
eyes were almost troubled.  "So I hear you and the kid have been living together again."

"Huldah?  Oh, Tom, she's been such a comfort to me--"

"That's all right.  I s'pose she isn't such a bad kid, on the whole."

"She's more'n good to me."  Then quickly, feverishly she began to pour out the story of her
life since he "was took away."  She told him of Charlie and the van, and how she was tricked.
Of her coming to Huldah, and their home together, and her own illness, until gradually her
voice grew weary and fainter and fainter.  The flush died out of her cheeks, the light out
of her eyes.  She was exhausted, but after she could not even whisper, a smile still hovered
about her lips, and her hand held that of her husband. He sat on, apparently content to do
so.  When her voice ceased, he did not seem to notice.  He appeared to be lost in thought to
which no one had the clue.

Huldah sat as still as a mouse, never speaking, and hoping to escape being spoken to.  Occasionally
she placed a piece of coal or wood on the fire, but that was all. In effect, divided their
musketry in half, marching in different directions, relying on the rocks to get closer to the rebels,
with less risk of throwing stones with obstinacy with slings. The riflemen and a few soldiers
armed with swords, engaged combat, and full of fire fighting, moving hastily to greater bravery,
but few not to be confused and defeated in the eminence of the crowd that awaited them.


A few moments later, Tom Smith stumbled down the stairs, and out into the darkness and away,
never to be seen by Huldah again.  She knew and realised nothing then, but that her Aunt Emma
was dead, that all her dreams had ended, all her plans for the future were fruitless, that
their living together was ended, her home broken up once more.

"She's had such a hard life!" she sobbed.  "And I thought I was going to make her so happy
when she got about a bit again."

"But she never would have got about again, dear.  She could never have got beyond these rooms,
and I feel sure she would always have worried about her husband.  She could never have gone
about with him again, and she would have fretted at being left behind.  She is happy now, brownie,
and out of pain.  No one who really loved her could wish her back again.  Don't grieve so,
Huldah dear.  You made the last months of her life happier than any she had known." After
the Indians urged to declare them by the chief justice rules debian watch over: wondered whether
the Spanish would land all belonging the Indian community: they said yes.


Huldah was silent.  She understood the feeling.  It was what she wanted everyone to feel with
regard to Aunt Emma,--to remember only what was good of her.

And she had her wish.  The little group gathered in the churchyard a few days later remembered
only her suffering and her sorrows, and the love which had lived through all, and many a pretty
bunch of winter flowers and leaves and berries were laid on her grave by kindly, pitying hands.
In the furthest corner of the little churchyard they laid her, in a corner where the sun rested,
and where a hawthorn grew, in which a robin sang hopefully while they laid her to rest.

Huldah, standing by the grave-side while the beautiful words of the Burial Service were being
read, thought of those other partings, so sad, so cruel,--oh, this was better than those, and
not so complete. She could still feel that Aunt Emma was near her, and safe, and in the best
of all keeping, at peace for ever and ever.

They thought it best that Huldah should not go back to the empty rooms again, and she was glad;
so after the service was over she walked back to her old home once again, as though she had
never left it, and the last few months had been but a dream.  And it was all so like a dream
that at the top of the lane she paused and looked about her, half bewildered.  Could she be,
she asked herself, the same Huldah who not so many months before had stood there a cowed, frightened,
hunted thing, starving, exhausted, but minding nothing as long as--as what?

As long as she escaped from the two she had so lately parted with, with such an aching heart.
She looked down over her black frock. She felt the sadness in her heart, the sense of loss.
Could such changes really have come about, that now she was full of grief that she could never
again see or hear the aunt she had so feared?

"Come home, dear; come home. 

"I know that having come to this town of Tupiza with a portion of people, which has arranged
to pass the city of La Plata, the Excellent. Mr D. Juan Jose de Vertiz y Salcedo, Viceroy Governor
and Captain General of the provinces of Rio de la Plata, & c., to establish the peace and quiet
of which were shaken and revolted, one of them is Tarija and Chichas, found desirable to know
the governors, priests, and other second villagers of their jurisdiction are maintained without
any novelty in their homes, continuing the work, chores and work, what he did before the present riots,
because otherwise undergoes the most severe punishment.


So, for the third time Huldah came back to Woodend Lane, and to Dick, who went nearly crazy
with joy, and to the chickens, and garden and her basket-making; and this time she stayed,
if not till she was an old woman, at any rate until someone big and strong and very fond of
her, came and built a new cottage, to join Mrs. Perry's old one, and a new fowl's house on
to the old one which Dick had guarded so well, that he earned for his little mistress and himself
a home and friends for ever.  And even then one could scarcely call it "leaving," for presently
the wall which divided them was knocked down, and the two cottages were made one.

Huldah's basket-making business increased and increased, until at last she had to teach another
little girl, that she might come and help her, and then another and another; and perhaps the
proudest moment of her life was when she was able to buy the cottage she loved so much, and
present it to her dearly-loved 'Aunt Martha' as a Christmas gift.

By that time Huldah, the little waif, who had earned for herself the name of "the Brownie,"
had made for herself so many friends, that when her wedding took place, so many wished to attend
it, they had to borrow the field opposite for the wedding-feast.  And where she had once sat
and worked and dreamed of the future, there she sat now flushed, smiling and happy, cutting
the wedding cake which old Dinah, with great pride, had made in the vicarage kitchen.

There she sat, with Dick close beside her, his old heart somewhat sad with fear of another
parting, Aunt Martha opposite, divided between smiles and tears, and beside her her husband,
who was not going to divide them, but bind them more securely together; and last, but not least,
on Huldah's other hand sat Miss Rose,--no longer  "Miss,"  but always  "Miss Rose"  to everyone
in Woodend,--who, if Huldah had been the "brownie," had proved herself the fairy godmother,
the best of guides and friends to those two who had strayed into her life that hot summer's
morning years ago--those two poor loving, hungry, friendless waifs,--Dick and the Brownie.

