Founder
             and formerly Director of the
                English Dialect Society

             "English in the native garb;"
                    K. Henry V. V. 1.
                  Reprinted 1912.

           *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE

The following brief sketch is an attempt to present, in a popular form, the history of our
English dialects, from the eighth century to the present day. The evidence, which is necessarily
somewhat imperfect, goes to show that the older dialects appear to have been few in number,
each being tolerably uniform over a wide area; and that the rather numerous dialects of the
present day were gradually developed by the breaking up of the older groups into subdialects.
This is especially true of the old Northumbrian dialect, in which the speech of Aberdeen was
hardly distinguishable from that of Yorkshire, down to the end of the fourteenth century; soon
after which date, the use of it for literary purposes survived in Scotland only. The chief
literary dialect, in the earliest period, was Northumbrian or "Anglian," down to the middle
of the ninth century. After that time our literature was mostly in the Southern or Wessex dialect,
commonly called "Anglo-Saxon," the dominion of which lasted down to the early years of the
thirteenth century, when the East Midland dialect surely but gradually rose to pre-eminence,
and has now become the speech of the empire. Towards this result the two great universities
contributed not a little. I proceed to discuss the foreign elements found in our dialects,
the chief being Scandinavian and French. The influence of the former has long been acknowledged;
a due recognition of the importance of the latter has yet to come. In conclusion, I give some
selected specimens of the use of the modern dialects.

I beg leave to thank my friend Mr P. Giles, M.A., Hon. LL.D. of Aberdeen, and University Reader
in Comparative Philology, for a few hints and for kindly advice.

  W. W. S.

    Cambridge

      3 March 1911

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PREFACE

I. DIALECTS AND THEIR VALUE. The meaning of dialect. Phonetic decay and
      dialectic regeneration. The words twenty, madam, alms. Keats;
      use of awfully. Tennyson and Ben Jonson; use of flittermouse.
      Shakespeare; use of bolter and child. Sir W. Scott; use of
      eme. The English yon. Hrinde in Beowulf.

II. DIALECTS IN EARLY TIMES. The four old dialects. Meaning of
      "Anglo-Saxon." Documents in the Wessex dialect.

III. THE DIALECTS OF NORTHUMBRIA; TILL A.D. 1300. The Anglian period.
      Beda's History and "Death-song." The poet Cædmon. Cædmon's hymn.
      The Leyden Riddle. The Ruth well Cross. Liber Vitæ. The Durham
      Ritual. The Lindisfarne and Rushworth MSS. Meaning of a "gloss."
      Specimen.

IV. THE DIALECTS OF NORTHUMBRIA; A.D. 1300-1400. The Metrical Psalter;
      with an extract. Cursor Mundi. Homilies in Verse. Prick of
      Conscience. Minot's Poems. Barbour's Bruce; with an extract. Great
      extent of the Old Northern dialect; from Aberdeen to the Humber.
      Lowland Scotch identical with the Yorkshire dialect of Hampole.
      Lowland Scotch called "Inglis" by Barbour, Henry the Minstrel,
      Dunbar, and Lyndesay; first called "Scottis" by G. Douglas.
      Dr Murray's account of the Dialect of the Southern Counties of
      Scotland.

V. NORTHUMBRIAN IN THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY. Northumbrian of Scotland and
      of England in different circumstances. Literature of the fifteenth
      century; poems, romances, plays, and ballads. List of Romances.
      Caxton. Rise of the Midland dialect. "Scottish" and "English."
      Jamieson's Dictionary. "Middle Scots." Quotation from Dunbar.

VI. THE SOUTHERN DIALECT. Alfred the Great. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.
      Old English Homilies. The Brut. St Juliana. The Ancren Riwle. The
      Proverbs of Alfred. The Owl and the Nightingale. A Moral Ode.
      Robert of Gloucester. Early history of Britain. The South-English
      Legendary. The Harleian MS. 2253. The Vernon MS. John Trevisa.
      The Testament of Love.

VII. THE SOUTHERN DIALECT OF KENT. Quotation from Beda. Extract from an
      Old Kentish Charter. Kentish Glosses. Kentish Sermons. William of
      Shoreham; with an extract. The Ayenbite of Inwyt. The Apostles'
      Creed in Old Kentish. The use of e for A.S. y in Kentish. Use
      of Kentish by Gower and Chaucer. Kentish forms in modern English.

VIII. THE MERCIAN DIALECT. East Midland. Old Mercian Glossaries of the
      eighth century. The Lorica Prayer. The Vespasian Psalter. The
      Rushworth MS. Old Mercian and Wessex compared. Laud MS. of the
      Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. The Ormulum. The English Proclamation of
      Henry III. (see the facsimile). Robert Mannyng of Brunne (Bourn).
      West Midland. The Prose Psalter. William of Palerne. The Pearl and
      Alliterative Poems. Sir Gawayne and the Grene Knight.

IX. FOREIGN ELEMENTS IN THE DIALECTS. Words from Norman, Italian,
      Spanish, Dutch, etc. Celtic. List of Celtic words. Examples of
      Latin words. Greek words. Hebrew words. List of Scandinavian
      words. French words. Anglo-French words; gauntree. Literary
      French words, as used in dialects.

X. LATER HISTORY OF THE DIALECTS. Spenser. John Fitzherbert. Thomas
      Tusser. Skinner's Etymologicon (Lincolnshire words). John Ray.
      Dialect glossaries. Dr Ellis on Early English Pronunciation. The
      English Dialect Society. The English Dialect Dictionary. The
      English Dialect Grammar.

XI. THE MODERN DIALECTS. Prof. Wright's account of the modern English
      Dialects.

XII. A FEW SPECIMENS. Some writers in dialect. Specimens: Scottish
      (Aberdeen, Ayrshire, Edinburgh). Northern England (Westmorland).
      Midland (Lincoln, S.E. Lancashire, Sheffield, Cheshire). Eastern
      (N. Essex, Norfolk). Western (S.W. Shropshire). Southern
      (Wiltshire, Isle of Wight, Sussex).

BIBLIOGRAPHY

INDEX

FACSIMILE. The only English Proclamation of Henry III. Oct. 18, 1258

*** For a transcription of the Facsimile see pp. 75-6.

{Transcriber's Note: The Facsimile is not included in this e-text.}

CHAPTER I

DIALECTS AND THEIR VALUE

According to the New English Dictionary, the oldest sense, in English, of the word dialect
was simply "a manner of speaking" or "phraseology," in accordance with its derivation from
the Greek dialectos, a discourse or way of speaking; from the verb dialegesthai, to discourse
or converse.

The modern meaning is somewhat more precise. In relation to a language such as English, it
is used in a special sense to signify "a local variety of speech differing from the standard
or literary language." When we talk of "speakers of dialect," we imply that they employ a provincial
method of speech to which the man who has been educated to use the language of books is unaccustomed.
Such a man finds that the dialect-speaker frequently uses words or modes of expression which
he does not understand or which are at any rate strange to him; and he is sure to notice that
such words as seem to be familiar to him are, for the most part, strangely pronounced. Such
differences are especially noticeable in the use of vowels and diphthongs, and in the mode
of intonation.

The speaker of the "standard" language is frequently tempted to consider himself as the dialect-speaker's
superior, unless he has already acquired some elementary knowledge of the value of the science
of language or has sufficient common sense to be desirous of learning to understand that which
for the moment lies beyond him. I remember once hearing the remark made--"What is the good
of dialects? Why not sweep them all away, and have done with them?" But the very form of the
question betrays ignorance of the facts; for it is no more possible to do away with them than
it is possible to suppress the waves of the sea. English, like every other literary language,
has always had its dialects and will long continue to possess them in secluded districts, though
they are at the present time losing much of that archaic character which gives them their chief
value. The spread of education may profoundly modify them, but the spoken language of the people
will ever continue to devise new variations and to initiate developments of its own. Even the
"standard" language is continually losing old words and admitting new ones, as was noted long
ago by Horace; and our so-called "standard" pronunciation is ever imperceptibly but surely
changing, and never continues in one stay.

In the very valuable Lectures on the Science of Language by Professor F. Max Müller, the second
Lecture, which deserves careful study, is chiefly occupied by some account of the processes
which he names respectively "phonetic decay" and "dialectic regeneration"; processes to which
all languages have always been and ever will be subject.

By "phonetic decay" is meant that insidious and gradual alteration in the sounds of spoken
words which, though it cannot be prevented, at last so corrupts a word that it becomes almost
or wholly unmeaning. Such a word as twenty does not suggest its origin. Many might perhaps
guess, from their observation of such numbers as thirty, forty, etc., that the suffix -ty may
have something to do with ten, of the original of which it is in fact an extremely reduced
form; but it is less obvious that twen- is a shortened form of twain. And perhaps none but
scholars of Teutonic languages are aware that twain was once of the masculine gender only,
while two was so restricted that it could only be applied to things that were feminine or neuter.
As a somewhat hackneyed example of phonetic decay, we may take the case of the Latin mea domina,
i.e. my mistress, which became in French ma dame, and in English madam; and the last of these
has been further shortened to mam, and even to 'm, as in the phrase "Yes, 'm." This shows how
nine letters may be reduced to one. Similarly, our monosyllable alms is all that is left of
the Greek ele{-e}mosyn{-e}. Ten letters have here been reduced to four.

This irresistible tendency to indistinctness and loss is not, however, wholly bad; for it has
at the same time largely contributed, especially in English, to such a simplification of grammatical
inflexions as certainly has the practical convenience of giving us less to learn. But in addition
to this decay in the forms of words, we have also to reckon with a depreciation or weakening
of the ideas they express. Many words become so hackneyed as to be no longer impressive. As
late as in 1820, Keats could say, in stanza 6 of his poem of Isabella, that "His heart beat
awfully against his side"; but at the present day the word awfully is suggestive of schoolboys'
slang. It is here that we may well have the benefit of the principle of "dialectic regeneration."
We shall often do well to borrow from our dialects many terms that are still fresh and racy,
and instinct with a full significance. Tennyson was well aware of this, and not only wrote
several poems wholly in the Lincolnshire dialect, but introduced dialect words elsewhere. Thus
in The Voyage of Maeldune, he has the striking line: "Our voices were thinner and fainter than
any flittermouse-shriek." In at least sixteen dialects a flittermouse means "a bat."

I have mentioned Tennyson in this connexion because he was a careful student of English, not
only in its dialectal but also in its older forms. But, as a matter of fact, nearly all our
chief writers have recognised the value of dialectal words. Tennyson was not the first to use
the above word. Near the end of the Second Act of his Sad Shepherd, Ben Jonson speaks of:

  Green-bellied snakes, blue fire-drakes in the sky,
  And giddy flitter-mice with leather wings.

Similarly, there are plenty of "provincialisms" in Shakespeare. In an interesting book entitled
Shakespeare, his Birthplace and its Neighbourhood, by J.R. Wise, there is a chapter on "The
Provincialisms of Shakespeare," from which I beg leave to give a short extract by way of specimen.

  "There is the expressive compound 'blood-boltered' in Macbeth
  (Act IV, Sc. 1), which the critics have all thought meant simply
  blood-stained. Miss Baker, in her Glossary of Northamptonshire
  Words, first pointed out that 'bolter' was peculiarly a
  Warwickshire word, signifying to clot, collect, or cake, as snow
  does in a horse's hoof, thus giving the phrase a far greater
  intensity of meaning. And Steevens, too, first noticed that in the
  expression in The Winter's Tale (Act III, Sc. 3), 'Is it a boy or
  a child?'--where, by the way, every actor tries to make a point,
  and the audience invariably laughs--the word 'child' is used, as is
  sometimes the case in the midland districts, as synonymous with
  girl; which is plainly its meaning in this passage, although the
  speaker has used it just before in its more common sense of either
  a boy or a girl."

In fact, the English Dialect Dictionary cites the phrase "is it a lad or a child?" as being
still current in Shropshire; and duly states that, in Warwickshire, "dirt collected on the
hairs of a horse's leg and forming into hard masses is said to bolter." Trench further points
out that many of our pure Anglo-Saxon words which lived on into the formation of our early
English, subsequently dropped out of our usual vocabulary, and are now to be found only in
the dialects. A good example is the word eme, an uncle (A.S. {-e}am), which is rather common
in Middle English, but has seldom appeared in our literature since the tune of Drayton. Yet
it is well known in our Northern dialects, and Sir Walter Scott puts the expression "Didna
his eme die" in the mouth of Davie Deans (Heart of Midlothian, ch. XII). In fact, few things
are more extraordinary in the history of our language than the singularly capricious manner
in which good and useful words emerge into or disappear from use in "standard" talk, for no
very obvious reason. Such a word as yonder is common enough still; but its corresponding adjective
yon, as in the phrase "yon man," is usually relegated to our dialects. Though it is common
in Shakespeare, it is comparatively rare in the Middle English period, from the twelfth to
the fifteenth century. It only occurs once in Chaucer, where it is introduced as being a Northern
word; and it absolutely disappears from record in the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth centuries.
Bosworth's Anglo-Saxon Dictionary gives no example of its use, and it was long supposed that
it would be impossible to trace it in our early records. Nevertheless, when Dr Sweet printed,
for the first time, an edition of King Alfred's translation of Pope Gregory's Pastoral Care,
an example appeared in which it was employed in the most natural manner, as if it were in everyday
use. At p. 443 of that treatise is the sentence--"Aris and gong to geonre byrg," i.e. Arise
and go to yon city. Here the A.S. geon (pronounced like the modern yon) is actually declined
after the regular manner, being duly provided with the suffix -re, which was the special suffix
reserved only for the genitive or dative feminine. It is here a dative after the preposition to.

There is, in fact, no limit to the good use to which a reverent study of our dialects may be
put by a diligent student. They abound with pearls which are worthy of a better fate than to
be trampled under foot.