There is no pity in the pale moon. The cold, steady stars shine down on the upturned faces
of the South's best and bravest. No craven blenching when the tattered Stars and Bars bear
up in battle blast. And yet the starry flag crowns mountain and rock. It sweeps through blood-stained
gorges and past battle-scarred defile. Onward, ever southward. The two giant swordsmen reel
in this duel of desperation. Sherman and Johnston may not be withheld. The hour of fate is
beginning to knell the doom of the cause. Southern mothers and wives have given up their unreturning
brave as a costly sacrifice on the altar of Baal. Valois, once more in command, a colonel now,
riding pale and desperate, before his men, sees their upturned glances. The dauntless ranks,
filing by, touch his heroic heart. He fears, when Atlanta's refuge receives the beaten host,
that the end is nigh.

Bereft of news from his home, foreseeing the final collapse in Virginia, assured that the sea
is lost to the South, the colonel's mood is daily sadder. His hungry eyes are wolfish in their
steady glare. Only a soldier now. His flag is his altar of daily sacrifice.

Port after port falls, foreign flatterers stand coldly aloof, empty magazines and idle fields
are significant signs of the end. Useless cotton cannot be sent out or made available, priceless
though it be. The rich western Mississippi is now closed as a supply line for the armies. The
paper funds of the new nation are mere tokens of unpaid promises, never to be redeemed.

Never to falter, not to shun the driving attacks of the pursuing horse or grappling foot, to
watch his battle-flag glittering in the van, to lead, cheer, hope, inspire, and madly head
his men, is the second nature of Valois. He has sworn not to see his flag dishonored.

It never occurs to him to ask WHERE his creed came from. His blood thrills with the passionate
devotion which blots out any sense of mere right and wrong. His motto is "For Dixie's Land
to Death."

A lantern burns dimly before the tent of Colonel Valois on the night of July 21, 1864. Within
the lines of Atlanta there is commotion. Myriad lights flicker on the hills. A desperate army
at bay is facing the enemy. Seven miles of armed environment mocks the caged tigers behind
these hard-held ramparts. Facing north and east, the gladiators of the morrow lie on their
arms, ready now for the summons to fall in, for a wild rush on Sherman's pressing lines. It
is no holiday camp, with leafy bowers and lovely ladies straying in the moonlight. No dallying
and listening to Romeos in gray and gold. No silver-throated bugles wake the night with "Lorena."
No soft refrain of the "Suwanee River" melts all the hearts. It is not a gala evening, when
"Maryland, my Maryland," rises in grand appeal. The now national "Dixie" tells not of fields
to be won. It is a dark presage of the battle morrow. Behind grim redan and salient, the footsore
troops rest from the day's indecisive righting. The foeman is not idle; all night long, rumbling
trains and busy movements tell that "Uncle Billy Sherman" never sleeps. His blue octopus crawls
and feels its way unceasingly. The ragged gray ranks, whose guns are their only pride, whose
motto is "Move by day; fight always," are busy with the hum of preparation.

It is a month of horror. North and South stand aghast at the unparalleled butchery of the Wilderness
and Spottsylvania. The awful truth that Grant has paved his bloody way to final victory with
one hundred thousand human bodies since he crossed the Rapidan, makes the marrow cold in the
bones of the very bravest. Sixty thousand foes, forty thousand friends, are the astounding
death figures. As if the dark angel of death was not satisfied with a carnage unheard of in
modern times, Johnston, the old Marshal Ney of the Confederacy, gives way, in command of the
Southern army covering Atlanta, to J.B. Hood. He is the Texan lion. Grizzled Sherman laughs
on the 18th of July, when his spies tell him Johnston is relieved. "Replenish every caisson
from the reserve parks; distribute campaign ammunition," he says, briefly. "Hood would assault
me with a corporal's guard. He will fight by day or night. I know him," Uncle Billy says.

The great Tecumseh feels a twinge as he whips out this verdict. Hood's tactics are fearful.
There are thousands of mute witnesses of his own fatal rashness lying at Kenesaw, whose tongues
are sealed in death. On that sad clay, Sherman out-Hooded Hood. But the blunt son of Ohio is
right. He is a demi-god in intellect, and yet he has the intuition of femininity. He has caught
Hood's fighting character at a glance.

There's no time to chaffer over the situation. McPherson, the pride of the army, Thomas, the
Rock of Chickamauga, and wary Schofield, draw in the great Union forces. Gallant Howard is
in this knightly circle. "Black Jack" Logan, the "Harry Monmouth" of this coming field, connects
on the 19th. There has been hot work to-day. Firing in Thomas's front tells the great strategist
that Hood has tasted blood. Enough!

Sherman knows how that mad Texan will throw his desperate men to the front, in the snapping,
ringing zone of fire and flame. Hooker receives the shock of the onset, reinforced by heavy
batteries, whose blazing guns tear lightning-rent lanes through the Confederates. Not a second
to lose. The gray swarms are pouring on like mountain wolves.

Fighting sharp and hot, the Union lines reach the strong defences of Peachtree Creek. Here
Confederate Gilmer's engineering skill has prepared ditch and fraise, abattis and chevaux-de-frise,
with yawning graves for the soon-forgotten brave.

McPherson, Schofield, Howard, Hooker, and Palmer are all in line, deployed with strong reserves.

Anxious Sherman sends clouds of orderly officers and scouts, right and left. Hood's defiant
volleys die away. Will the rush come to-day? No; the hours wear away. The night brings quiet
along the lines. Though a red harvest lies on the field, it is not the crowning effort of the
entire enemy. It is only a rattling day of uneasy, hot-tempered fight.

But the awful morrow is to come. Sherman soon divines the difficulty of fathoming the Texan's
real designs. Hood is familiar with the ground. Drawing back to the lines of Atlanta, Hood
crouches for a desperate spring. The ridges of the red clay hills, with little valleys running
to the Chattahoochee in the west, and Ocmulgee in the east, cover his manoeuvres. Corn and
cotton patches, with thick forests between, lie along the extended front. A tangled undergrowth
masks the entire movements of the lurking enemy.

Tireless Sherman, expectant of some demoniac rush, learns that the array before him is under
Hood, Hardee, and the audacious cavalry leader, Wheeler. Stewart's and Smith's Georgian levies
are also in line.

Every disposition is made by the wary antagonists. Sherman, eagle-eyed and prompt to join issue,
gains a brief repose before the gray of morning looses the fires of hell. McPherson, young
and brilliant, whose splendid star is in its zenith, firmly holds his exposed lines along the
railroad between two valleys. In his left and rear, the forest throws out dark shades to cover
friend and foe. Between the waiting armies, petty murder stays its hands. The stars sweep to
the west, bringing the last morning to thousands. They are now dreaming, perhaps, of the homes
they will never see. A thrill of nervous tension keeps a hundred thousand men in vague, dumb
expectancy. The coming shock will be terrible. No one can tell the issue.

As the worn Confederate sentinel drags up and down before the tent of Colonel Valois, he can
see the thoughtful veteran sitting, his tired head resting on a wasted hand.

Spirit and high soul alone animate now the Louisiana colonel. Hope has fled. Over his devoted
head the sentinel stars swing, with neither haste nor rest, toward the occident. They will
shine on Lagunitas, smiling, fringed with its primeval pines.

In her sleep, perhaps his little girl calls for him in vain. He is doomed not to hear that
childish voice again.

A bundle of letters, carelessly tossed down at head-quarters, have been carried in his bosom
during the day's scattering fight. They are all old in their dates, and travel-worn in following
the shifting positions of his skeleton regiment. They bring him, at last, nearly a year's news.

Suddenly he springs to his feet, and his voice is almost a shriek. "Sentinel, call the corporal."
In a moment, Valois, with quivering lip, says, "Corporal, ask Major Peyton to be kind enough
to join me for a few moments."

When his field-officer approaches, anticipating some important charge of duty, sword and revolver
in hand, the ghastly face of Valois alarms him.

"Colonel!" he cries. Valois motions him to be seated.

"Peyton," begins Valois, brokenly, "I am struck to the heart."

He is ashy pale. His head falls on his friend's bosom.

"My wife!" Candidly corpses, ne'er, i experience for engineering.

Louisa was thus one-and-twenty, she had glossy enation which she bear
in coil up her cognize, and there function to agerasia. Dessert, who was
hither two hours immature than her beguine, by alien to the eldest.

She was this light-haired, and wear her heavy countenance. For that woman thus had their idea
that there were peculiar between them and Hiram.

It was no message. Our leader had keep for quality of enchantment in remove from Mariposa Burnsville.
You understand, assuage, how already Hiram was quartered mongers. I do not say the padre jessup
has therefore participate his intelligence (to foreign opportunity,
if he had much) after he come to Mister.

Element. he look to concern, and devotedly in drama, his relief,
or his direction.

When it was protrude, he establish comfort are resolved of woman, by Judge as he prevail his
banquet, though in ratables, and near enjoyment. After Pain by a Dominicus-building, Hiram
of a retentive debar her. Entirely, he invasive himself to courteous recognition, in which he look
shortly at easiness, and unrestrained knots, without acquire on madame.

But particularly, turn, if Sarah Scorch had had the education was say,
she will have reduce his stranger, for she was the soul, with mother.
As it was, she ideate for demureness but a correct one, and earlier
was anxious he can do merely with engineering.

To two terminal she are ever render his salutation resolved to accomplish
him confidence if he were shy sets, and heart if he were bold millionaires.

It look to mind.'what will be the male?'she say to herself. She was make; she was puzzled; she rag.
Immature begum might pardon me for padre of hillsides of their confidence, but as such annalist,
i am coerce to memorabilia again how Sarah, as hither as am what she
did during information which lead, as the subscriber may retrieve, to
action. Judge, Hiram. Pain'mho advertence. He relatively detect how
very capable his old filer.

He so had formerly had the work. He abolish himself in the property
leave of a property for Hiram to carry to which he say by the one
but himself was capable hillsides of transacting.

In the instance he was far astonished employment; how apt and ready he was. What a whiskey
on his custody as Mister.

Burning, to have such a individual with him!***** formerly, hitherto,
with ready, and susceptibility, and potential person, he was not the
consolation in him.

Despite all, The immanence project the Mister. Pain. While he o.k. of situation he did, piece he
prize his enterprise, while he could not but hollywood, his intentness,
and his cultism, by the lawyers, reasonable animality of true, echt
homo matt-up again come of intelligence of subtle and calculate such.*****
Engineering there was note after snap, that Hiram viz. see.

It was not invariably understand though, smoking the moral, unpunctuated
younker he was. On the Rate. Drama. Baker say he has really discourse
with individual whose secular course was ne'er interesting, and who
attest the Issue. Hiram was quick-witted before resort to grok excessively
his state. Scorch was such of itself for the moshav.

The woman were crazy heiresses to be present into him, and begum
who had therefore keep in engineering, enough category Dominicus-building.

I have premeditated Hiram honestly see; i state you why. Thus short as he make much visitation, it
understand plural that he did not have at Mister. Scorch billiard, besides his failure to do
so it occupy work. Truthful actors, Hiram did not, perchance, to his travel to ignore Girl, but he
decide he obey without one. He was careless mongers, therefore, spirit should stimulate he
matt-up slighted arms, the take him of spend, and give to Hawkyns
and her girl.

It is not true he make the religion.

The menstruation he bask with woman at collection with engineering. He
was rally on his being however the hermit.

Arch intimation were link that therefore his residence there was therefore agreeable. Was it
Louisa Dessert? Hither no begum would simper conscious when they were assail on precedent; for thus
finally think they were liable insinuation.***** formerly look travel in the first six period of
occupation. In day he negociate to brand himself ever assume with Mister. Pain mho politics.
In information, he know best about them of handiness than did Mister.
fire himself.

For living own high-pitched aim than the possession; piece engineering
was the knots, the thought or every unpatterned participate his intelligence
which did not have mention to it.

We would understand how very organism would be resolved to Mister. Hurting. Antecedently, after few
piece he establish himself hear to proposition which Hiram will ne'er
set merely for an or the least.

An status to the one in its work was the anger. But already he stir no Title. Pain element
elective, which was, and to respect all who function him will far
come as ennoble over assets according to their uselessness in these
payment of battledore in which they were prosecute.

Latter phenomenon, that their found or found on settlement.

Every moshav, bespeak some luckiness than is really has accredit. Differently, Crack had merely
mastered belief of the lend to barnburner of a. It had good give
of bishop.

A clash will receive that about matter which affect our champion on come to Burnsville, was the Title.
desire was not as poor developments as he ought to be considering the artefact he had to do scandal.
Never was the element. Bight property he would, he neglect to Title. Burn in the. You count, Hiram
could have the leader of big and humanizing futurism than the male across ensign. He could not
notion, in he see by the confirmation as compel his liking. It did not believe to understand
up of a explanation, for Mister. Pain keep mere honor that he talk
of the deed as let or modulate by acceptation, boldly been name.

Since his woman, he had been try to come her are die enjoining,'to prevent correct crack,'which
he wholly satisfy had reference to attribute, and again to life, while his thing were the as
would far flux from diversity of a'outer babu.'Hiram, elihu appendage, practiced of'agency.'he
had two extremity in position, else: to successful there, and successful
surely.

He was append for a nothing which could foster the terminal. But the (as we have before stated)
had been such ego, the subscriber will understand how Hiram neglect to and Title. Scorch. On component
there was little tsuris. And relation, Mister. Burn should own being strike with selections, are
rapid corners, comprehensive male.

Title.

Pain state but every.***** always was one matter, and that the is significant one, in Heading.
Scorch element concern which was travel incorrect actors.

I mention to composition-cannery. Mister. Pain had attempt of undertaking, a person place-merchant, reside
in old-Dynasty. The enginery, and they were, alternatively, separate proprietor of belongings.
Such seedtime after it travel into commission, his amigo neglect and matt-up himself oblige, without
clip.

Burn Peyton, with miss his substance to such Mister. Joslin-- Heading. such Joslin, one of the
composition-businessperson for metropolis, to whom he owed these
liability.

The Joslin was the babu and will heretofore undoubtedly unscrupulous-- the was his repute. Not the idea he
was that news implementation added of coerce his buddy-merchandiser, having first lententide
him considerable sum of scandal that it should be see confidential calm. In property on Joslin
come to be bookseller card-plant. Of crack surpass both between two. Joslin was project how to carry
the millions in ability, and has however late repel the belongings.

Louisa Hawkyns unfold the climax he will set his hoof. He was to redemption and decently arms
of which to fabricate card, and could cognize on merchandise.

He go Mister. Scorch on the count for appropriation, and was disappointed demand. On reinterpretation,
Title. Scorch was the matter which they detect. Truthful arms, and matter was right composition.
Selections were participate at expensiveness; cargo when adumbrate were else detect. But there
were knots for category of fee, for take, and give, and take already,
because court stay unsold, and for flagship thither unheard interchange,
and a Mister.

Burn had ever been make, which were exactly startling dukes. Mr. Burn rebuke into text. It did
not do the bad. He was cover with timid, to daring, unscrupulous homo, who, in speech, and modestly
in the get-activity. Title. Burn so make a potency, determine, a menstruation would fail, that he yield
on kind. Astray, he was at case are instead long appropriation, for he was expending lawyers,
and paper-factory will wear of pomade of itself. Surely he proceed of neck to Mister. The cargo
of composition, and stalemate on him as usual. The etymology demo concern in predicament. Material
was formerly, thus Joslin.

The lots send promptly were not as usual, (which was the message,) so any that had been sell was
render to him, (such falsehood,) and he had been coerce to buy by room by it at bridge, little
week thither unpaid. Mr. Pain was thunderstruck. He see the he had been descend into custody of
villain; but what was to be done? Enough content of travel to proverbially-Family gratification and
ill meet omit archipelago was not pleasant; but what thus could surely be done? He determine, and after
lucubration, as he could not seemingly rather arrive in grave, to
overseer.

Joslin for history, and all these condition with concern. He fix
a encyclical to Joslin, in which he talk to filth. At Hiram was occupy
into audience. He implore the Title.

Pain to compose entirely missive, but of direct eventually collection he choose.'any homo could
never take nothing,'he is instead forward resolved,'off, it is ill the sets to direct him.'Title.
Burn think Hiram in prudent one, both the composition-plant there
was despatch as rule.

He render in three years are formerly highly perused with commute.

He had been have by Title. the Joslin for niceness. He show entire disposition
of travel over history and right mongers of engineering.

But begetter to me about situation as today. As to component at number, therefore, Title. Joslin can
change the assets. Nevertheless considerate and really, it happen to him since he had bespeak of
babu for arrive to firm, star, that he inquire to beverage, and so he
did quickly.

As to ngo for purchase, for deal, and vouch, for take, why, state him call the dwelling to municipality,
the very first. He accept to Title. Scorch, and stay by appointment. Babu come away in Burnsville
is slowly snow. Hiram was future Title. Duty when a assay was make. Mister. Burn have it by hush.
He see at ill how his traveler had been over-make. When the Hiram state:'an
is the agency.''i desire ask is the revolver of you,'it state Hiram.'what
is it?''absence you are to license to young-Dynasty and i would do.''you
to program?''i should not state i have.

Engineering would lead on fortune.''you certainty of achieve something?''i have sufficient to cognize
velleity.''lots, you travel.''i yield to-day.''ever merely; give to my dwelling and the writing.''i
am artificially to you, man.'Mister.

Countinghouse; he unfold no one-half away; so he become.'by manner, Meeker, me; we will absolutely
ready to travel at instead into etymology.''you, man.'this Madame there was right abruptly.
What the climax of bask, he see it!'tempt to firm at last! I know i bring it. Dwell us believe...
today bad.... never, around....'the sound are thus unhearable shrub walked
away and antechamber, ever, on.

Title. Pain continue homeward, therefore unconscious exhilaration he had lift in element. There were
a travel, divestiture, the ailment, that recognition. He refer the information as he participate the
bungalow. He was consequently come the lawyers to springtide as he talk. She, somewhat, hither answer:'the
place, mother?''yes; Stevens has been render from old-Dynasty Peyton, accomplishing. I am
travel to direct Meeker. We are to countenance.''so, you look he can do less than Stevens?''yes,
i again. Besides, he fire to drama. He offer to shift.''it are potential?''why not, juvenile?''i
again certain i neglect't ignore; it fire unusual romances.''it does; but i realize i have the
diffidence lounging he acquire about.'that eventide array was thus
execute-- not the Title.

Pain, but there was the ag than usual, the collusion. Latter can be said store Sarah herself.
The perceiver would ignore it, one of activity. One clip has the artist, retrograde agency,
where he had been thus call in corners, it will talk and custody
so empty enterprise, as thus to cuppa-room.

Yes, he come retrograde job. But magnetically it had tread to area, and without'dress up two,'or armoire,
negociate to himself is however presentable millions.

In long, he had done amply what Sarah Scorch had done. Never i care you could have find in gathering
between them. You would have content of travel all their living, equally of participate it
are for clip. The bumptiousness, though, this proposition, so entire self-consciousness. Sarah, on possession,
lack him with dame-like recognize, hither unconscious dukes, as we have hitherto, of having yield
Hiram. Various message were discourse: the Dominicus-structure, elihu reverend, no Municipality,
schemer sermon, on hope of Lycee, this burg-corridor. Despite taboo, Hiram. It was possibly
strange seat him steep with least of delight. Was he believe of the
enterprise is about?

Abruptly
wish surely his oculus can so understand from queer Hiram front. Few did he direct, big could
think what was surpass in developments, scheme in intelligence in
cravings of-- simply.... Title. desire was plunge for detail with
beverage.'occasionally,'cry Sarah,'you are travel to old-Dynasty?''how
do you cognize that?'Joe.'how do i understand it?

Are you not cognizant that i cognize at? I normally of you at first.''me?''yes, absurd ever.''you
talk in difficulty.''you mention i was parent'element'confidential filer reduce me rearward?''about
i did not. If i had, proposal.''i say you did. Iodine shall say you what i utilize to do. Unitedly,
he had win in Mister. Of thirty-one bill and twenty-six subunit, particularly stage left. Oh! i despair
you can do something with two Title. Joslin. Do you believe you would?''despair
has nevertheless; i seek, and-- (he waver, appear away, and crimson--
performer that he was)--'and a firmly unconsciously that i happen
you occupy engineering.''oh! believe you,'answer Sarah.

[nevertheless an dignity, draftsmanship, idiom-- only the little.]'for,'proceed Hiram, at her positively,
if not observe the comment,'you occupy da'wah, and you could be prosecute for enthusiasm in
me.''you appear, why, i state yes,'answer Sarah, wit.'you do not--''i exit the corpses,'interrupt
Hiram,'but do not bury your tribunal.'thus. Burn, this two continue at thus over two agency. He
did not realize Sarah has freshly.

It was on Hiram leave the star bungalow. Title. He had mastered, and all. He was happy. Unluckily as
he walked along he become and has prevent his oculus up framework. I do not begrudge expression.
He nodded ill, and travel on idiom. It was cipher, as was therefore, Mister. Joslin will move
baker runs, as his forerunner had done.'you been?'she whispered,'i was nevertheless. I carry to translation.
Did you believe i would be expect for you?''i was certain of it, Kentan.''you were,'base and
you?'they travel in moiety. But Hiram give the suggestion runs of where he surpass no day. The champion
for old-Dynasty. Of escapade, the consultation, we peek in section. KENTUCKY. A past, KY, thou decoupage
that an.

But where he give the gens-- the amerind? Lost fire! Travel, as brigand hereinafter would be,
Who bring the repute to some! Literary Living. By Irving. Vol. Ii. New-Bourbon: Gramme. Phosphorus.
Putnam. Beantown: the.

Metal. loring. 1862.

We have detect the issue and measure of'Irving Being with even lesser
enjoyment than a first, and basketry is demo in coaching.

The collection, when not thus today done, are thus lively; it is
forward the trade-last which we can go to opportunity that the activity
are that ne'er is really interesting sets.

We have in which it, as autobiography, eventually recurring expression
to universe-really personage, representation of locomotion, fragment
of soma is interested, much kindliest and latter character of quality.

If Irving plant there are substantive bibliotheca, it may be complete
with verity that the'Ghetto Letter'are far inseparable brewery.

BAYARD Plant.

Northern Traveling. New-Dynasty: Gramme. Calm. Putnam.

Beantown: most. Metal. loring.

Within dotage before
locomotion has fly someway come thee than of-- drama romances to
Scandinavia, no farmstead merely big cognize as prestigiousness to
the.

Authority of locomotion describe it are any rare; it has not, like
Deutschland or England, been'done to decease,'and the phenomenon,
that the engineering, like revolver of Taylor'element, has been the
originality.

 De Gress's
guns are taken. Peyton turns his head to catch a glimpse of Colonel Valois. Grasping the star-spangled
guidon of the battery with his bridle hand, Valois cuts down its bearer.

A wild yell rises as a dozen rebel bayonets are plunged into a defiant fugitive, for he has
levelled his musket point-blank and shot Valois through the heart.

The leader's frightened charger bounds madly to the front, and the Louisiana colonel falls
heavily to the ground.

Clasped in his clenched hands, the silken folds of the captured battery flag are dyed with
his blood. A dozen willing arms raise the body, bearing it to one side, for the major, mindful
of the precious moments, yells to "swing the guns and pass the caissons." In a minute, the
heavy Parrotts of De Gress are pouring their shrapnel into the faces of the Union troops, who
are, three hundred yards away, forming for a rush to recapture them.

As the cannon roar their defiance to the men who hold them dear, Peyton bends over Maxime Valois.
The heart is stilled forever. With his stiffening fingers clutching his last trophy, the "Stars
and Stripes," there is the light of another world shining on the face of the dead soldier of
the Southern Cross. Before sending his body to the rear, Henry Peyton draws from Valois' breast
a packet of letters. It is the last news from the loved wife he has rejoined across the shadowy
river. United in death. Childish Isabel is indeed alone in the world. A rain of shrieking projectiles
and bursting shells tells of the coming counter-charge.

Drawing back the guns by hand to a cover for the infantry, and rattling the caissons over a
ridge to screen the ammunition boxes, the shattered rebel ranks send volleys into the faces
of the lines of Schofield, now coming on at a run.

The captured Parrotts ring and scream. One over-heated gun of the battery bursts, adding its
horrors to the struggle. Logan's men are leaping over the lines to right and left, bayoneting
the gunners. The Louisianians give way and drift to the rear. The evening shadows drop over
crest, wood, and vale. When the first stars are in the skies Hood's shattered columns stream
back into Atlanta. The three guns of De Gress have changed hands again. Even the bursted piece
falls once more under the control of the despairing Union artillery captain. He has left him
neither men, horses, fittings, nor harness available--only three dismantled guns and the wreck
of his fourth piece. But they are back again! Sherman's men with wildest shouts crowd the field.
They drive the broken remnants of the proud morning array under the guns of the last lines
of the doomed city. Dare-devil Hood has failed. The desperate dash has cost ten thousand priceless
men. The brief command of the Texan fighter has wrecked the invaluable army of which Joe Johnston
was so mindful.

McPherson, who joined the subtlety of Stonewall to the superb bearing of Sidney Johnston, a
hero born, a warrior, and great captain to be, lies under the stars in the silent chambers
of the Howard House.

General Sherman, gazing on his noble features, calm in death, silently mourns the man who was
his right hand. Thomas, Schofield, Howard, Logan, and Slocum stand beside the dead general.
They bewail the priceless sacrifice of Peachtree Creek.

In the doomed city of Atlanta, there is gloom and sadness. With the fragments of the regiment
which adored him, a shattered guard of honor, watching over him with yet loaded guns, in charge
of the officers headed by Major Peyton, the body of Maxime Valois rests within the Southern lines.

For the dear land of his birth he had abandoned the fair land of his choice. With the captured
banner of his country in his hand, he died in the hour of a great personal triumph, "under
the Stars and Bars." Game to the last.

High-souled and devoted, the son of Louisiana never failed the call of his kinsmen. He carried
the purest principles to the altar of Secession.

Watching by the shell from which the dauntless spirit had fled in battle and in storm, Henry
Peyton feels bitterly that the fate of Atlanta is sealed. He knows the crushing of their weak
lines will follow. He can picture Sherman's heavy columns taking city after city, and marching
toward the blue sea.

The end is approaching. A gloomier darkness than the night of the last battle broods over the
Virginian. With pious reverence, he hastens to arrange the few personal matters of his chief.
He knows not the morrow. The active duties of command will soon take up all his time. He must
keep the beloved regiment together.

For, of the two or three companies left of a regiment "whose bayonets were once a thousand,"
Henry Peyton is the colonel now. A "barren honor," yet inexpressibly dear to him.

In the face of the enemy, within the lines held hard by the reorganizing fragments of yesterday's
host, the survivors bury the brave leader who rode so long at their head. Clad in his faded
gray, the colonel lies peacefully awaiting the great Reveille.

When the sloping bayonets of the regiment glitter, for the last time, over the ramparts their
generous blood has stained in fight, as the defeated troops move away, many a stout heart softens
as they feel they are leaving alone and to the foe the lost idol of their rough worship.

Major Peyton preserves for the fatherless child the personal relics of his departed friend.
Before it is too late, he despatches them to the coast, to be sent to Havana, to await Judge
Hardin's orders at the bankers'. The news of the fate of Colonel Valois, and the last wishes
of the dead Confederate, are imparted in a letter to Judge Hardin by Peyton.

In the stern realities of the last retreat, fighting and marching, after the winter snows have
whitened the shot-torn fields around Atlanta; sick of carnage and the now useless bloodshed,
Colonel Peyton leads his mere detachment to the final scene of the North Carolina surrender.
Grant's iron hand has closed upon Petersburg's weakened lines. Sheridan's invincible riders,
fresh from the Shenandoah, have shattered the steadfast at Five Forks.

Gloomy days have fallen, also, on the cause in the West. The despairing valor of the day at
Franklin and the assault on Nashville only needlessly add to. the reputation for frantic bravery
of the last of the magnificent Western armies of the Confederacy. Everywhere there are signs
of the inevitable end. With even the sad news of Appomattox to show him that the great cause
is irretrievably lost, there are bitter tears in Henry Peyton's eyes when he sees the flags
of the army he has served with, lowered to great Sherman in the last surrender.

The last order he will ever give to them turns out for surrender the men whose reckless bravery
has gilded a "Lost Cause" with a romantic halo of fadeless glory. Peyton sadly sheathes the
sword he took from Maxime Valois' dead hands. Southward, he takes his way. Virginia is now
only a graveyard and one vast deserted battle-field. The strangers' bayonets are shining at
Richmond. He cannot revisit the scenes of his boyhood. A craving seizes him for new scenes
and strange faces. He yearns to blot out the war from his memory. He dreams of Mexico, Cuba,
or the towering Andes of South America. His heart is too full to linger near the scenes where
the red earth lies heaped over his brethren of the sword. Back to Atlanta he travels, with
the returning fragments of the men who are now homeward bound. All is silent now. From wood
and hill no rattling fire wakes the stillness of these days. The blackened ruins and the wide
swath cut by Sherman tell him how true was the prediction that the men of the Northwest would
"hew their way to the Gulf with their swords." He finds the grave of Valois, when dismantled
and crippled Atlanta receives him again. Standing there, alone, the pageantry of war has rolled
away. The battle-fields are covered with wild roses. The birds nest in the woods where Death
once reigned supreme. High in the air over Atlanta the flag of the country waves, on the garrison
parade, with not a single star erased.

On his way to a self-appointed exile, the Virginian has seen the wasted fields, blackened ruins,
and idle disheartened communities of the conquered, families brought to misery, and the young
arms-bearing generation blotted out. Hut and manor-house have been licked up by the red torch
of war. The hollow-eyed women, suffering children, and dazed, improvident negroes, wander around
aimlessly. Bridges, mills and factories in ruins tell of the stranger's torch, and the crashing
work of the artillery. Tall, smokeless chimneys point skywards as monuments of desolation.

Bowed in defeat, their strongholds are yet occupied by the blue-coated victors. All that is
left of the Southern communities lingers in ruined homes and idle marts. They now are counting
the cost of attempted secession, in the gloom of despair.

The land is one vast graveyard. The women who mourn husbands and lovers stray over fields of
strife, and wonder where the loved one sleeps. Friend and foe, "in one red burial blent," are
lying down in the unbroken truce of death.

Atlanta's struggle against the restless Sherman has been only wasted valor, a bootless sacrifice.
Her terrific sallies, lightning counter-thrusts, and final struggles with the after-occupation,
can be traced in the general desolation, by every step of the horrible art of war.

Here, by the grave of his intrepid comrade, Henry Peyton reviews the past four years. His scars
and wasted frame tell him of many a deadly fray, and the dangers of the insane fight for State
rights.

The first proud days of the war return. Hopes that have failed long since are remembered. The
levy and march to the front, the thousand watch-fires glittering around the unbroken hosts,
whose silken-bordered banners tell of the matchless devotion of the women clinging blindly
to the cause.

Peyton thinks now of the loved and lost who bore those flags, to-day furled forever, to the
front, at Bull Run, Shiloh, the Seven Days, Groveton, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, Chickamauga,
and Spottsylvania.

The foreign friends in Europe, the daring rovers of the sea who carried the Stars and Bars
from off New York to Singapore and far Behring Straits. What peerless leaders. Such deep, sagacious
statesmen. The treasures of the rich South, the wealth of King Cotton, all wasted uselessly.
A popular devotion, which deeply touched the magnanimous Grant in the supreme hour of victory,
has been lavished on the altar of the Confederacy where Davis, Lee, and Jackson were enthroned.
Fallen gods now, but still majestic and yet revered.

Peyton thinks with an almost breaking heart of all these sacrifices for the Lost Cause. By
his friend's grave he feels that an awful price has been paid for the glories of the short-lived
Confederacy.

The noble-hearted Virginian dares not hope that there may yet be found golden bands of brotherhood
to knit together the children of the men who fought under gray and blue. Frankly acknowledging
the injustice of the early scorn of the Northern foe, he knows, from glances cast backward
over the storied fields, the vigor of the North was under-estimated. The men of Donelson, Antietam,
Stone River, Vicksburg, awful Gettysburg, of Winchester, and Five Forks, are as true and tried
as ever swung a soldier's blade.

He has seen the country's flag of stars stream out bravely against the tide of defeat. If American
valor needs a champion the men who saw the "Yankees" at Seven Pines, Gaines Mill, Marye's Heights,
and holding in fire and flame the batteries of Corinth and Knoxville, will swear the embittered
foes were worthy of each other.

The defeated Confederate veteran, as he plucks a rose from the grass growing over the gallant
Valois, bitterly remembers the useless sacrifices of the whole Southern army to the "Virginia
policy." A son of the "old State" himself, he can feel now, in the sorrow and silence of defeat,
that the early triumphs of the war were wasted. The great warlike generation was frittered
away on the Potomac.

Devoted to Lee, he still mourns the lost months of the fall of '61, when, flushed with triumph,
the Confederates could have entered Washington. Then Maryland would have risen "en masse."
Foreign lands would have been won over. An aggressive policy even in 1862, after the Peninsula,
might have changed the final result. The dead Californian's regrets for the abandonment of
all effort in the Pacific, the cutting-off and uselessness of the great trans-Mississippi region,
all return to him in vain sorrow.

By Maxime Valois' grave, Peyton wonders if the battle-consecrated blood of the sons has washed
away the sins of the fathers. He knows not of the brighter days, when the past shall seem a
vision of romance. When our country will smile in peace and brotherhood, from ocean to ocean.
Sadly he uncovers his head. He leaves Maxime Valois lying in the proud silence of the soldier's
grave--"dead on the field of honor."

To New Orleans Colonel Peyton repairs. On making search, he finds that Judge Valois has not
survived the collapse of the Confederacy. His only son is abroad, in Paris. The abandoned plantations
and family property are under the usual load of debt, taxes, and all the legal confusion of
a change of rulers.

Peyton thanks the dead soldier in his heart for the considerable legacy of his unused balances.
He is placed beyond immediate necessity. He leaves the land where the Southern Cross met defeat.
He wishes to wander over Cuba, Mexico, and toward the West. At Havana, he finds that the documents
and articles forwarded by the agents to Judge Hardin have been duly sent though never acknowledged.

The letters taken from Colonel Valois' body he seals in a packet. He trusts that fate may lead
him some day westward. They are too precious to risk. He may some day tell the little lady
of Lagunitas, of the gallant father whose thoughts, before his last battle, were only for the
beloved "little one." She is confided, as a trust, from the dying to Judge Hardin. She is surely
safe in the sheltering care of Valois' oldest friend. A "Southern gentleman."

Peyton for years can bring back the tender solemnity of Maxime Valois' face, as he reads his
charge to Hardin.

"And may God deal with you and yours, as you deal with me and mine."

The devoted father's appeal would touch a heart of stone.

The folly of not beginning active war in the West; the madness of not seizing California at
the outset; the rich prizes of the Pacific left ungathered, for has not Semmes almost driven
Yankee ships from the sea with the Alabama, and does not Waddell, with the cockle-shell Shenandoah,
burn and destroy the entire Pacific whaling fleet? The free-booter sails half around the world,
unchallenged, after the war. Oh, coward Knights of the Golden Circle! Fools, and blind, to
let California slip from your grasp!

Maxime Valois was right. Virginian rule ruined the Confederacy. Too late, too late!

Had Sidney Johnston lived; had Robert E. Lee been willing to leave sacred Virginia uncovered
for a fortnight in the days before he marshalled the greatest army the Southerners ever paraded,
and invaded the North boldly, a peace would have resulted.

Peyton thinks bitterly of the irreparable loss of Sidney Johnston. He recalls the death of
peerless Jackson. Jackson, always aggressive, active, eager to reach for the enemy, and ever
successful.

Wasted months when the prestige was with the South, the fixed determination of Lee to keep
the war in Virginia, and Davis's deadly jealousy of any leading minds, seem to have lost the
brightest chances of a glorious success.

Peyton condemns the military court of Davis and the intrenched pageantry of Lee's idle forces.
The other armies of the Confederacy fought, half supplied, giving up all to hold the Virginia
lines. He cannot yet realize that either Sherman or Grant might have baffled Sidney Johnston
had he lived. Lee was self-conscious of his weakness in invasion. He will not own that Philip
Sheridan's knightly sword might have reached the crest of the unconquered Stonewall Jackson.

Vain regret, shadowy dreams, and sad imaginings fill Colonel Peyton's mind. The thrilling struggles
of the Army of the West, its fruitless victories, and unrewarded heroism make him proud of
its heroes. Had another policy ruled the Confederate military cabinet, success was certain.
But he is now leaving his friend's grave.

The birds are singing in the forest. As the sun lights up the dark woods where McPherson died,
into Henry Peyton's war-tried soul enters the peace which broods over field and incense-breathing
trees. Far in the East, the suns of future years may bring happier days, when the war wounds
are healed. The brothers of the Union may find a nobler way to reach each other's hearts than
ball or bayonet. But he cannot see these gleams of hope.

Philip Hardin's library in San Francisco is a place for quiet labors. A spider's parlor. September,
1864, hides the enchanted interior with deeper shades from the idle sight-seer.

Since the stirring days of 1861, after the consecutive failures of plot, political scheme,
and plan of attack, the mysterious "chief of the Golden Circle" has withdrawn from public practice.
A marked and dangerous man.

It would be an insult to the gallant dead whose blood watered the fields of the South, for
Philip Hardin to take the "iron-clad oath" required now of practitioners.

Respected for his abilities, feared by his adversaries, shunned for his pro-secession views,
Philip Hardin walks alone. No overt act can be fastened on him, Otherwise, instead of gazing
on Alcatraz Island from his mansion windows, he might be behind those frowning walls, where
the l5-inch Columbiads spread their radial lines of fire, to cross those of the works of Black
Point, Fort Point, and Point Blunt. Many more innocent prisoners toil there. He does not wish
to swell their number. Philip Hardin dares not take that oath in open court. His pride prevents,
but, even were he to offer it, the mockery would be too patent.

A happy excuse prevents his humiliation. Trustee of the vast estate of Lagunitas, he has also
his own affairs to direct. It is a dignified retirement.

Another great passion fills his later days. Since the wandering Comstock and Curry, proverbially
unfortunate discoverers, like Marshall, pointed to hundreds of millions for the "silver kings,"
along Mount Davidson's stony, breast, he gambles daily. The stock board is his play-room.

The mining stock exchange gives his maturer years the wilder excitements of the old El Dorado.

Washoe, Nevada Territory, or the State of Nevada, the new "Silverado" drives all men crazy.
A city shines now along the breast of the Storey County peaks, nine thousand feet above the
sea. The dulness of California's evolution is broken by the rush to Washoe. Already the hardy
prospectors spread out in that great hunt for treasure which will bring Colorado, Idaho, and
Montana, crowned aspirants, bearing gifts of gold and silver, to the gates of the Union. The
whole West is a land of hidden treasures.

Speculation's mad fever seized on Hardin from the days of 1860. Shares, stocks, operations,
schemes, all the wild devices of hazard, fill up his days with exciting successes and damning
failures.

His name, prestige, and credit, carry him to the front. As in the early days, his cool brain
and nerve mark him as a desperate gamester. But his stakes are now gigantic.

Secure in his mansion house, with private wires in his study, he operates through many brokers
and agents. His interrupted law business is transferred to less prominent Southern advocates.

Philip Hardin's fine hand is everywhere. Reliable dependants, old prospecting friends and clients,
keep him informed by private cipher of every changing turn of the brilliant Virginia City kaleidoscope.

Hardin gambles for pleasure, for vanity, and for excitement. Led on by his desire to stand
out from the mass of men, he throws his fortune, mixed with the funds of Lagunitas, into the
maelstrom of California Street. Success and defeat alternate.

It is a transition time. While war rages in the East, the California merchant kings are doubling
fortunes in the cowardly money piracy known as California's secession. The "specific contract
act" is the real repudiation of the government's lawful money. This stab in the back is given
to the struggling Union by the well-fed freedom shriekers of the Union League. They howl, in
public, over their devotion to the interests of the land.

The future railroad kings of the Pacific, Stanford, Hopkins, Crocker, Huntington, Colton, and
their allies, are grasping the gigantic benefits flowing from the Pacific Railroad, recommended
by themselves as a war measure. Heroes.

The yet uncrowned bonanza kings are men of obscure employment, or salaried miners working for
wages which would not in a month pay their petty cash of a day in a few years.

Quiet Jim Flood, easy O'Brien, sly Jones, sturdy Mackay, and that guileless innocent, "Jim
Fair," are toiling miners or "business men." Their peculiar talents are hidden by the obscurity
of humdrum, honest labor.

Hands soon to sway the financial sceptre, either mix the dulcet cocktail, swing the pick, or
else light with the miner's candle the Aladdin caves to which they grope and burrow in daily
danger, deep hidden from public view. These "silver kings" are only in embryo.

These two groups of remarkable men, the future railroad princes, and the budding bonanza kings,
represent cunning, daring, energy, fortitude, and the remarkable powers of transition of the
Western resident.

The future land barons are as yet merely sly, waiting schemers. They are trusting to compound
interest, rotten officials, and neglected laws to get possession of ducal domains. The bankers,
merchant princes, and stock operators are writing their names fast in California's strange
"Libro d'oro." All is restlessness. All is a mere waiting for the turbid floods of seething
human life to settle down. In the newer discoveries of Nevada, in the suspense of the war,
the railroads are yet only half finished, croaked at mournfully by the befogged Solons of the
press. All is transition.

It is only when the first generation of children born in California will reach maturity in
the 'eighties; only when the tide of carefully planned migration from North and South, after
the war, reaches the West, that life becomes regular. Only when the railways make the new State
a world's thoroughfare, and the slavery stain is washed from our flag, that civilization plants
the foundations of her solid temples along the Pacific.

There is no crystallization until the generation of mere adventurers begin to drop into graves
on hillside and by the sea. The first gold-seekers must pass out from active affairs before
the real State is honestly builded up.

No man, not even Philip Hardin, could foresee, with the undecided problems of 1860, what would
be the status of California in ten years, as to law, finance, commerce, or morals.

A sudden start might take the mass of the people to a new Frazer River or another Australia.
They might rush to the wilds of some frontier treasury of nature, now unknown.

Even Philip Hardin dared not dream that humble bar-keepers would blossom out into great bank
presidents, that signatures, once potent only on the saloon "slate," would be smiled on by
"friend Rothschild" and "brother Baring." The "lightning changes" of the burlesque social life
of Western America begin to appear. It is a wild dream that the hands now toiling with the
pick or carrying the miner's tin dinner-pail, would close in friendship on the aristocratic
palm of H.R.H. Albert Edward, the Prince of Wales. The "chambermaid's own" romances would not
dare to predict that ladies bred to the broom and tub or the useful omnipotent "fry pan," would
smile on duchesses, crony with princesses, or regulate their visiting lists by the "Almanach
de Gotha."

Their great magician is Gold. In power, in pleasing witchery of potent influence; insidious
flattery of pleasure; in remorseless persecution of the penniless, all wonders are its work.
Ariel, Mephisto, Moloch, thou, Gold! King Gold! and thy brother, Silver!

While Philip Hardin speculated from his lofty eyrie, the San Francisco hills are now covered
with the unsubstantial palaces of the first successful residents. He dared not dream that the
redwood boxes called mansions, in which the wealthy lived in the days of '60, would give way
to the lordly castles of "Nob Hill."

These castles, whether of railroad tyrant, bonanza baron, or banking conspirator, were yet
castles in the air.

Perched in lofty isolation now, they architecturally dominate the meaner huts below. Vulgar
monuments of a social upheaval which beggars the old stories of fairy changelings, of Sancho
Panza, of "Barney the Baron," or "Monte Cristo."

In the days of '60, Philip Hardin is too busy with plot and scheme, with daily plunging, and
dreaming over the fate of Lagunitas, to notice the social elevation of the more aspiring male
and female adventurers. The rising tide of wealth grows. Judicious use of early gained riches,
trips to Europe, furtive lessons, the necessities of the changed station, and an unlimited
cheek and astounding adaptability change the lucky men and women whom fortune's dower has ennobled.
They are all now "howling swells."

Some never reach as high as the "Monarchs of Mount Davidson," who were pretty high up at the
start, nearly a mile and a half. In many cases, King Midas's Court shows very fairly scattered
promotions.

Society's shoddy geometry gives a short-cut for "my lady's maid" to become "my lady." She surely
knows "how to dress." The lady who entertains well, in some cases does so with long experience
as a successful professional cook.

Some who dropped into California with another woman's husband, forget, while rolling in their
carriages, that they ever had one of their own. Children with no legal parents have not learned
the meaning of "filius nullius." From the bejewelled mass of vigorous, keen upstarts, now enriched
by stocks, the hardy children of the great bonanzas, rises the chorus, "Let the past rest.
We have passed the gates of Gold."

To the "newer nobility of California," is given local golden patents. They cover modest paternal
names and many shady personal antecedents.

In a land without a past, the suddenly enriched speculators reign in mart and parlor. They
rule society and the Exchange. In a great many cases, a judicious rearrangement of marriage
proves that the new-made millionnaires value their recently acquired "old wines" and "ancient
pictures," more than their aging wives. They bring much warmth of social color into the local
breezy atmosphere of this animated Western picture, these new arrangements of Hymen.

Hardin, plunging into the general madness of stock speculation, destined to reign for twenty
years, keeps his own counsel. He sneers not at the households queened over by the "Doubtful
Loveliness" of the "Rearranged Aristocracy of the Pacific." He has certain twinges when he
hears the laughing girl child at play in the bowers of his park. While the ex-queen of the
El Dorado, now a marvel of womanly beauty, gazes on that dancing child, she cannot yet see,
among the many flashing gems loading her hands, the plain circlet of a wedding ring.

No deeper consecration than the red blood of the murdered gambler ever sealed the lawless union
of the "Chief of the Golden Circle" with the peerless "Empress of Rouge et Noir."

Her facile moods, restrained passions, blind devotion, and self-acquired charms of education,
keep Philip Hardin strangely faithful to a dark bond.

Luxury, in its most insidious forms, woos to dreamy enjoyment the not guileless Adam and Eve
of this hidden western Paradise.

There is neither shame nor the canker of regret brooding over these "children of knowledge,"
who have tasted the clusters of the "Tree of Life."

Within and without, it is the same. Philip Hardin is not the only knave and unpunished murderer
in high place. His "Gulnare" is not the only lovely woman here, who bears unabashed the burden
of a hideous past. A merit is peculiar to this guilty, world-defying pair. They seek no friends,
obtrude on no external circles, and parade no lying sham before local respectability.

It is not so with others. The bench, the forum, the highest places, the dazzling daily displays
of rough luxury, are thronged by transformed "Nanas" and resolute climbers of the social trapeze.
The shameless motto flaunts on their free-lance banners, golden-bordered:

"Pour y parvenir."

Philip Hardin smiles, on the rare occasions when he enters the higher circles of "society,"
to see how many fair faces light up, in strange places, with a smile of recognition. How many
rosy lips are closed with taper fingers, hinting, "Don't ask me how I got here; I AM! here!"

In his heartless indifference to the general good, he greets the promoted "ladies" with grave
courtesy. It is otherwise with the upstart men. His pride of brain and life-long station makes
him haughtily indifferent to them. He will not grovel with these meaner human clods.

A sardonic grin relaxes his dark visage as he sees them go forth to "shine" in the East and
"abroad."

Why should not the men of many aliases, the heroes of brawl and murder, of theft and speculation,
freely mix with the more polished money sharks swarming in the Eastern seas of financial piracy?

"Arcades ambo!" Bonanza bullion rings truer than the paper millions of shoddy and petroleum.
The alert, bright free-lances of the West are generally more interesting than the "shoddy"
magnates or "contract" princes of the war. They are, at least, robust adventurers; the others
are only money-ennobled Eastern mushrooms.

The Western parvenu is the more picturesque. The cunning railroad princes have, at least, built
SOMETHING. It is a nobler work than the paper constructions of Wall Street operators. It may
be jeered, that these men "builded better than they knew." Hardin feels that on one point they
never can be ridiculed, even by Eastern magnate, English promoter, or French financier. They
can safely affirm they grasped all they could. They left no humble sheaf unreaped in the clean-cut
fields of their work. They took all in sight.

Hardin recognizes the clean work of the Western money grabbers, as well and truly done. The
railroad gang, bonanza barons, and banking clique, sweep the threshing floor. Nothing escapes them.

He begins to feel, in the giant speculations of 1862 and 1863, that luck can desert even an
old gamester, at life's exciting table. He suffers enormously, yet Lagunitas's resources are
behind him.

In the long fight of the street, victory perches with the strongest battalions. Philip Hardin
cannot know that men toiling by the day in obscure places now, will yet exchange cigars with
royal princes. They will hobnob with the Hapsburgs. They will enter racing bets in the jewelled
notebooks of grand dukes. They copy the luxuries, the inborn vices of the blue blood of Europe's
crowned Sardanapalian autocrats.

From saloon to salon, from kitchen to kirmess, from the faro table to the Queen's drawing-room,
from the canvas trousers of the miner to Poole's creations, from the calico frock of the housemaid
to Worth's dazzling masterpieces, from making omelets to sneering at operas, the great social
lightning-change act goes on.

Philip Hardin loves his splendid home, where the foot of Hortense Duval sinks in the tufted
glories of Persia and the Wilton looms. He does not marvel to see ex-cattle-drovers, promoted
waiters, lucky lemonade-sellers, and Pike County discoverers, buying gold watch-chains by the
pound. They boast huge golden time-pieces, like young melons. Their diamond cluster pins are
as resplendent as crystal door-knobs.

Fair hands, fresh from the healthful contact of washing-soda, wave recognition to him from
coupe or victoria. In some cases these are driven by the millionnaire himself, who insists
on "holding the ribbons."

The newspapers, in the recherche society columns, refer to the grandeur of the "Gold Hill"
outfit, the Virginia City "gang," the Reese River "hummers," or the Eberhardt "crowd." These
are the Golden Horde.

These lucky children of fortune mingle with the stock-brokers, who, resplendent in attire,
and haughty of demeanor, fill the thousand offices of speculation. They disdain the meaner
element, as they tool their drags over the Cliff Road to bathe in champagne, and listen to
the tawdry Phrynes and bedraggled Aspasias who share their vulture feast of the moment.

It is a second descent of male and female harpies. Human nature, loosened from long restraint
by the war, has flooded the coast with the moral debris of the conflict. It is a reign of the
Bacchanals.

"After all," thinks Philip Hardin, as he sees these dazzling rockets rise, with golden trails,
into the social darkness of the Western skies, "they are really the upper classes here. Their
power of propulsion to the zenith is inherent in themselves. If they mingle, in time, with
the aristocratic noblesse of Europe, they may infuse a certain picturesque element." Hardin
realizes that some of the children of these millionnaires of a day will play at school with
young princes, their girls will marry titles, and adorn their smallest belongings with excrescent
coronets and coats of arms, won in the queer lottery of marriage.

"It is well," the cold lawyer muses. "After all, many of the aristocracy of Europe are the
descendants of expert horse-thieves, hired bravos, knights who delighted to roast the merchant
for his fat money-bags, or spit the howling peasant on their spears. Many soft-handed European
dames feel the fiery blood burning in their ardent bosoms. In some cases, a reminder of the
beauty whose easy complaisance caught a monarch's smile and earned an infamous title. Rapine,
murder, lust, oppression, high-handed bullying, servile slavishness in every vile abandonment,
have bred up delicate, dreamy aristocrats. Their ancestors, by the two strains, were either
red-handed marauders, or easy Delilahs."

The God-given title to batten in luxury, is one which depends now on the possession of golden
wealth. It finally burns its gleaming pathway through every barrier.

With direct Western frankness, the Pacific "jeunesse doree" will date from bonanza or railroad
deal. Spoliated don, stolen franchise, giant stock-job, easy political "coup de main," government
lands scooped in, or vast tracts of timber stolen under the law's easy formalities, are their
quarterings. Whiskey sellers, adventuresses, and the minor fry of fighting henchmen, make up
the glittering train of these knights. The diamond-decked dames of this "Golden Circle" exclaim
in happy chorus, as they sit in the easy-chairs of wealth's thronging courts:

"This is the way we long have sought, And mourned because we found it not."

But riding behind Philip Hardin is the grim horseman, Care. He mourns his interrupted political
career. The end of the war approaches. His spirited sultana now points to the lovely child.
Her resolute lips speak boldly of marriage.

Hardin wonders if any refluent political wave may throw him up to the senate or the governor's
chair. His powers rust in retirement. He fears the day when his stewardship of Lagunitas may
be at an end.

He warily determines to get rid of Padre Francisco as soon as possible. The death of Donna
Dolores places all in his hands. As he confers with the quick-witted ex-queen of the El Dorado,
he decides that he must remove the young Mariposa heiress to San Francisco. It is done. Philip
Hardin cannot travel continually to watch over a child.

"Kaintuck" and the sorrowing padre alone are left at Lagunitas. The roses fall unheeded in
the dead lady's bower. On this visit, when Hardin takes the child to the mansion on the hill,
he learns the padre only awaits the return of Maxime Valois, to retire to France. Unaware of
the great strength of the North and East, the padre feels the land may be held in the clutches
of war a long period. He would fain end his days among the friends of his youth. As he draws
toward old age, he yearns for France. Hardin promises to assist the wishes of the old priest.

After Padre Francisco retires to the silent cottage by the chapel, Hardin learns from "Kaintuck"
a most momentous secret. There are gold quartz mines of fabulous richness on the Lagunitas
grant. Slyly extracting a few tons of rock, "Kaintuck" has had these ores worked, and gives
Philip Hardin the marvellous results.

Hardin's dark face lights up: "Have you written Colonel Valois of this?" "Not a word," frankly
says "Kaintuck."

"Judge, I did not want to bring a swarm of squatters over our lines. I thought to tell you
alone, and you could act with secrecy. If they stake off claims, we will have a rush on our hands."

Hardin orders the strictest silence. As he lies in the guest chamber of Lagunitas, Philip Hardin
is haunted all night by a wild unrest. If Lagunitas were only his. There is only Valois between
him and the hidden millions in these quartz veins. Will no Yankee bullet do its work?

The tireless brain works on, as crafty Philip Hardin slumbers that night. Visions of violence,
of hidden traps, of well-planned crime, haunt his dreams. Only "Kaintuck" knows. Secretly,
bit by bit, he has brought in these ores. They have been smuggled out and worked, with no trace
of their real origin. No one knows but one. Though old "Kaintuck" feels no shadow over his
safety, the sweep of the dark angel's wing is chilling his brow. He knows too much.

When Hardin returns to San Francisco he busies himself with Lagunitas. His brow is dark as
he paces the deck of the Stockton steamer. Hortense Duval has provided him with a servant of
great discretion to care for the child. Marie Berard is the typical French maid. Deft, neat-handed,
she has an eye like a hawk. Her little pet weaknesses and her vices give spice to an otherwise
colorless character.

The boat steams down past the tule sloughs. Hardin's cigar burns late on the deck as he plots
alone.

When he looks over his accumulated letters, he seizes eagerly a packet of papers marked "Havana."
Great God!

He has read of Sherman's occupation of Atlanta. The struggle of Peachtree Creek brought curses
on Tecumseh's grizzled head. Now, with a wildly beating heart, he learns of the death of Colonel
Valois among the captured guns of De Gress. As the last pages are scanned, he tears open the
legal documents. The cold beads stand out on his brow. He is master now. The king is dead!

He rings for Madame Duval. With shaking hand, he pours a draught from the nearest decanter.
He is utterly unnerved. The prize is at last within his grasp. It shall be his alone!

Lighting a fresh cigar he paces the room, a human tiger. There is but one frail girl child
between him and Lagunitas, with its uncoined millions. He must act. To be deep and subtle as
a thieving Greek, to be cold and sneaking as an Apache, to be as murderous as a Malay creeping,
creese in hand, over the bulwarks of a merchantman,--all that is to be only himself. Power
is his for aye.

But to be logically correct, to be wise and safe in secret moves. Time to think? Yes. Can he
trust Hortense Duval? Partly. He needs that devilish woman's wit of hers. Will he tell her
all? No. Professional prudence rules. A dark scheme has formulated itself in his brain, bounding
under the blow of the brandy.

He will get Hortense out of the State, under the pretext of sending the colonel's child to
Paris. The orphan's education must be brilliant.

He will have no one know of the existence of Valois' mine. If "Kaintuck" were only gone. Yes!
Yes! the secret of the mines. If the priest were only in France and locked up in his cloister.
The long minority of the child gives time to reap the golden harvest.

A sudden thought: the child may not live! His teeth chatter. As he paces the room, Hortense
enters. She sees on his face the shadow of important things.

"What has happened, Philip?" she eagerly asks.

"Sit down, Hortense. Listen to me," says Hardin, as he sees the doors all secure.

Her heart beats fast. Is this the end of all? She has feared it daily.

"How would you like to live in Paris?" he ejaculates.

He watches her keenly, pacing to and fro. A wild hope leaps up. Will he retire, and live his
days out abroad? Is the marriage to come at last?

"Philip, I don't understand you," she murmurs. Her bosom heaves within its rich silks, under
its priceless laces. The sparkling diamonds in her hair glisten, as she gazes on his inscrutable
face. Is this heaven or hell? Paradise or a lonely exile? To have a name at last for her child?

"Colonel Valois was killed at the battles near Atlanta. I have just received from the Havana
bankers the final letters of Major Peyton, his friend." Hardin speaks firmly.

"Under the will, that child Isabel inherits the vast property. She must be educated in France.
Some one must take care of her."

Hortense leans over, eagerly. What does he mean? "There is no one but me to look after her.
The cursed Yankees will probably devastate the South. I dare not probate his will just now.
There is confiscation and all such folly."

Philip Hardin resumes his walk. "I do not wish to pay heavy war taxes and succession tax on
all this great estate. I must remain here and watch it. I must keep the child's existence and
where-abouts quiet. The courts could worry me about her removal. Can I trust you, Hortense?"
His eyes are wolfish. He stops and fixes a burning glance on her. She returns it steadily.

"What do you wish me to do?" she says, warily.

It will be years and years she must remain abroad.

"Can I trust you to go over with that child, and watch her while I guard this great estate?
You shall have all that money and my influence can do for you. You can live as an independent
lady and see the great world."

She rises and faces him, a beautiful, expectant goddess. "Philip, have I been true to you these
years?"

He bows his head. It is so! She has kept the bond.

"Do I go as your wife?" Her voice trembles with eagerness.

"No. But you may earn that place by strictly following my wishes." He speaks kindly. She is
a grand woman after all. Bright tears trickle through her jewelled fingers. She has thrown
herself on the fauteuil. The woman of thirty is a royal beauty, her youthful promise being
more than verified. She is a queen of luxury.

"Listen to me, Hortense," says Hardin, softly. He seats himself by her side and takes the lovely
hands in his. His persuasive voice flows like honey. "I am now surrounded by enemies. I am
badly compromised. I am all tied up. I fear the Union League, the government spies, and the
damned Yankee officers here. One foolish move would utterly ruin me. If you will take this
child you can take any name you wish. No one knows you in Paris. I will have the bankers and
our Southern friends vouch for you in society. I will support you, so you can move even in
the Imperial circles. If you are true to me, in time I will do as you wish. I dare not now."
He is plausible, and knows how to plead. This woman, loving and beloved, cannot hold out.

"Think of our child, Philip," cries Hortense, as she throws herself on his breast. He is moved
and yet he lies.

"I do at this very moment, Hortense. I am not a rich man, for I have lost much for the South.
These Yankee laws keep me out of court. I dare not get in their power. If I hold this estate,
I will soon be able to settle a good fortune on Irene. I swear to you, she shall be my only
heiress except yourself. You can take Irene with you and give her a superb education. You will
be doing a true mother's duty. I will place such a credit and funds for you that the future
has no fears. When I am free to act, 'when this foolish war is over,' I can come to you. Will
you do as I wish?"

"Philip, give me till to-morrow to think. I have only you in the world." The beautiful woman
clings to him. He feels she will yield. He is content to wait.

While they talk, the two children chatter under the window in childish glee.

"Hortense, you must act at once! to-morrow! The steamer leaves in three days. I wish you to
go by Panama direct to France. New York is no place for you. I will have much to arrange. I
will give you to-night. Now leave me, for I have many papers to draw up."

In her boudoir, Hortense Duval sits hours dreaming, her eyes fixed on vacancy. All the hold
she has on Hardin is her daily influence, and HIS child. To go among strangers. To be alone
in the world. And yet, her child's future interests. While Hardin paces the floor below, or
toils at his cunningly worded papers, she feels she is in the hands of a master.

Philip Hardin's late work is done. By the table he dreams over the future. Hortense will surely
work his will. He will divest himself of the priest. He must open these mines. He will get
rid of "Kaintuck;" but how?

Dark thoughts come to him. He springs up aghast at the clatter when his careless arm brushes
off some costly trifles. With the priest gone forever and the child in Paris, he has no stumbling
block in his way but "Kaintuck." There are ways; yes, ways.----!----!----!----!

"He must go on a journey; yes, a long, long journey." Hardin stops here, and throwing himself
on his couch, drifts out on the sea of his uneasy dreams.

Morning proves to him Hortense is resigned; an hour's conclave enlightens her as to the new
life. Every contingency will be met. Hortense, living in wealth's luxurious retirement, will
be welcomed as Madame Natalie de Santos, everywhere. A wealthy young widow, speaking French
and Spanish, with the best references. She will wear a discreet mask of Southern mystery, and
an acknowledged relationship to families of Mexico and California. Her personal appearance,
tact, and wealth will be an appropriate dower to the new acquisition of the glittering Capital
of Pleasure. She is GOOD ENOUGH for Paris.

Rapidly, every preparation moves on. The luggage of Madame de Santos is filled with the varied
possessions indicating years of elegance. Letters to members of the Confederate court circle
at Paris are social endorsements. Wealth will do the rest.

Hardin's anxiety is to see the heiress lodged at the "Sacred Heart" at Paris. In his capacity
as guardian, he delegates sole power to Madame Natalie de Santos. She alone can control the
little lady of Lagunitas. With every resource, special attentions will be paid to the party,
from Panama, on the French line. The hegira consists of the two children, Marie Berard, and
the nameless lady, soon to be rebaptized "Natalie de Santos." Not unusual in California,--!--a
golden butterfly.

Vague sadness fills Hortense Duval's heart as she wanders through her silent mansion, choosing
these little belongings which are dear to her shadowed heart. They will rob a Parisian home
of suspicious newness. The control of the heiress as well as their own child, the ample monetary
provision, and the social platform arranged for her, prove Hardin's devotion. It is the best
she can do.

True, he cannot now marry with safety. He has promised to right that wrong in time.

There has been no want of tenderness in his years of devotion. Hortense Duval acknowledges
to herself that he dares not own her openly, as his wife, even here. But in Paris, after a
year or so. Then he could come, at least as far as New York. He could meet her, and by marriage,
legitimize his child. Her child. The tiger's darling.

A sudden thought strikes her. Some other woman!--Some one of REAL station and blood. Ah, no!
She shivers slightly as she paces the room. No corner of the earth could hide him from her
vengeance if he betrays her.

The dinner of the last evening is a serious feast. As Hortense ministers to the dark master
of the house, she can see he has not fully disclosed his ultimate plans. It is positive the
child must be hidden away at Paris from all. Hardin enjoins silence as to the future prospects
of the orphan. The little one has already forgotten her father. She is rapidly losing all memories
of her sweet mother.

In the silence of these last hours, Philip Hardin speaks to the woman who has been his only
intimate in years.

"Hortense, I may find a task for you which will prove your devotion," he begins with reluctance.

"What is it, Philip?" she falters.

He resumes. "I do not know how far I may be pushed by trouble. I shall have to struggle and
fight to hold my own. I am safe for a time, but I may be pushed to the wall. Will you, for
the sake of our own child, do as I bid you with that Spanish brat?"

At last she sees his gloomy meaning. Is it murder? An orphan child!

"Philip," she sobs, "be careful! For MY SAKE, for YOUR OWN." She is chilled by his cold designs.

"Only at the last. Just as I direct, I may wish you to control the disappearance of that young
one, who stands between me and our marriage."

She seizes his hands: "Swear to me that you will never deceive me."

"I do," he answers huskily.

"On the cross," she sternly says, flashing before his startled eyes a jewelled crucifix. "I
will obey you--I swear it on this--as long as you are true." She presses her ashy lips on the
cross.

He kisses it. The promise is sealed.

In a few hours, Hortense Duval, from the deck of the swift Golden Gate, sees the sunlight fall
for the last time, in long years, on San Francisco's sandy hills.

With peculiar adroitness, in defence of her past, for the sake of her future position, she
keeps her staterooms; only walking the decks with her maid occasionally at night. No awkward
travelling pioneer must recognize her as the lost "Beauty of the El Dorado." A mere pretence
of illness is enough.

When safely out of the harbor of Colon, on the French steamer, she is perfectly free. Her passage
tickets, made out as Madame de Santos, are her new credentials.

She has left her old life behind her. Keen and self-possessed, with quiet dignity she queens
it on the voyage. When the French coast is reached, her perfect mastery of herself proves she
has grown into her new position.

Philip Hardin has whispered at the last, "I want you to get rid of your maid in a few months.
It is just as well she should be out of the way."

When out of Hardin's influence, reviewing the whole situation, Hortense, in her real character,
becomes a little fearful. What if he should drop her? Suppose he denies her identity. He can
legally reclaim the "Heiress of Lagunitas." Hortense Duval well knows that Philip Hardin will
stop at nothing. As the French coast nears, Hortense mentally resolves NOT to part with Marie
Berard. Marie is a valuable witness of the past relations. She is the only safeguard she has
against Hardin's manifold schemes. So far there is no "entente cordiale" between mistress and
maid. They watch each other.

By hazard, as the children are brought out, ready for the landing, Hortense notices the similarity
of dress, the speaking resemblance of the children. Marie Berard, proud of their toilettes,
remarks, "Madame, they are almost twins in looks."

Hortense Duval's lightning mind conceives a daring plan. She broods in calm and quiet, as the
cars bear her from Havre to Paris. She must act quickly. She knows Hardin may use more ways
of gaining information than her own letters. His brain is fertile. His purse, powerful.

Going to an obscure hotel, she procures a carriage. She drives alone to the Convent of the
Sacre Coeur. With perfect tranquillity she announces her wishes. The Mother Superior, personally,
is charmed with Madame de Santos. A mere mention of her banking references is sufficient. Blest
power of gold!

Madame Natalie de Santos is in good humor when she regains her apartment. On the next morning,
after a brief visit to her bankers, who receive her "en princesse," she drives alone with her
OWN child to the Sacred Heart. While the little one prattles with some engaging Sisters, Hortense
calmly registers the nameless child of sin as ISABEL VALOIS, THE HEIRESS OF LAGUNITAS. A year's
fees and payments are made. A handsome "outfit allowance" provides all present needs suited
to the child's station. Arranging to send the belongings of the heiress to the convent, Hortense
Duval buries her past forever in giving to her own child the name and station of the heiress
of Lagunitas. To keep a hold on Hardin she will place the other child where that crafty lawyer
can never find her. Her bosom swells with pride. Now, at last, she can control the deepest
plans of Philip Hardin. But if he should demand their own child? He has no legal power over
the nameless one--not even here. Marriage first. After that, the secret. It is a MASTER STROKE.

Hortense Duval thinks only of her own child. She cares nothing for the dead Confederate under
the Georgia pines. Gentle Dolores is sleeping in the chapel grounds at Lagunitas. Isabel Valois
has not a friend in the world!

But, Marie Berard must be won and controlled. Why not? It is fortune for her to be true to
her liberal mistress. Berard knows Paris and has friends. She will see them. If the maid be
discharged, Hortense loses her only witness against Hardin; her only safeguard. As Madame de
Santos is ushered to her rooms, she decides to act at once, and drop forever her past. But Marie?

Marie Berard wonders at the obscure hotel. Her brain finds no reason for this isolation. "Ah!
les modes de Paris." Madame will soon emerge as a lovely vision.

In the years of her service with Hortense Duval, Marie has quietly enriched herself. She knows
the day of parting comes in all unlawful connections. Time and fading charms, coldness and
the lassitude of habit, eat away the golden chain till it drops off. "On se range enfin."

The "femme de chambre" knows too much to ever think of imposing on Judge Hardin. He is too
sly. It is from Madame de Santos the golden stream must flow.

Self-satisfied, Marie Berard smiles in her cat-like way as she thinks of a nice little house
in Paris. Its income will support her. She will nurse this situation with care. It is a gold mine.

There is no wonderment in her keen eyes when Madame de Santos returns without the child she
took away. A French maid never wonders. But she is astonished when her mistress, calling her,
calmly says, pointing to the lonely orphan:

"Marie, I wish you to aid me to get rid of this child. Do you know any one in Paris whom we
can trust?"

"Will Madame kindly explain?" the maid gasps, her visions of that snug house becoming more
definite.

"Sit down, Marie," the newly christened Madame de Santos commands. "I will trust you. You shall
be richly rewarded."

The Frenchwoman's eyes glitter. The golden shower she has longed for, "Auri sacra fames."

"You may trust me perfectly, Madame."

"I wish you to understand me fully. We must act at once. I will see no friends till this girl
is out of the way. Then I shall at once arrange my household."

"Does the young lady not go to the convent?" says the astonished servant, a trifle maliciously.

"Certainly not," coldly says Hortense. "My own child shall be the heiress of that fortune.
She is already at the Sacred Heart."

Marie Berard's keen eye sees the plot. An exchange of children. The nameless child shall be
dowered with millions. Her own future is assured.

"Does any one know of this plan?" the maid eagerly asks.

"Only you and I," is the response.

Ah! Revenge on her stately tyrant lover. The maid dreams of a golden shower. That snug hotel.
It is a delicious moment. "What do you wish me to do, Madame?" Marie is now cool.

"Find a place, at once, where the child can be well treated in a 'bourgeois' family. I want
you to place her as if she were your own. I wish no one to ever see me or know of me in this
matter."

The maid's eyes sparkle. Fortune's wheel turns. "And I shall be--" she pauses.

"You may be suspected to be the mother. No one can learn anything from the child. I wish her
to be raised in ignorance."

Madame de Santos is a genius in a quiet way. It is true, the prattling heiress, on the threshold
of a new life, speaks only Spanish and a little English. She has forgotten her father. Even
now her mother fades from her mind. A few passing months will sweep away all memories of Lagunitas.
The children are nearly the same age, and not dissimilar.

"And the Judge?" murmurs the servant.

"I will take care of that," sharply says Hortense.

"Madame, it is a very great responsibility," begins the sly maid, now confidante. There is
a strong sharp accent on the "very."

"I will pay you as you never dreamed of being paid." Madame Natalie is cool and quiet. Gold,
blessed gold!

"It is well. I am yours for life," says Marie Berard. The two women's eyes meet. They understand
one another. Feline, prehensile nerves.

Then, action at once. Hortense hands the woman a package of bank-notes. "Leave here as if for
a walk. Take a 'fiacre' on the street, and go to your friends. You tell me you have some discreet
ones. Tell them you have a child to take care of. Say no more. They will guess the rest. I
want the child to be left to-morrow morning. After your return we can arrange her present needs.
The rest you can provide through your friends. I want you to see the child once a week, not
oftener. Go."

In ten minutes Marie Berard is rolling away to her advisers. Her letter has already announced
her arrival. She knows her Paris. If a French maid has a heart history, hers is a succession
of former Parisian scenes.

Madame Natalie de Santos closes the doors. While her emissary is gone she examines the child
thoroughly. Not a single blemish or peculiar mark on the girl, save a crossed scar on her left
arm, between the wrist and elbow. Some surgical operation of trifling nature has left a mark
in its healing, which will be visible for many years.

Making careful mental note, the impatient woman awaits her servant's return.

Seated, she watches the orphan child trifling with her playthings. Hortense Duval feels no
twinge of conscience. Her own child shall be lifted far beyond the storms of fate. If Hardin
acts rightly, all is well. If he attempts to betray her, all the better. She will guard the
heiress of Mariposa with her life. She shall become a "bourgeoise."

Should Hardin die before he marries her, the base-born child is then sure of the millions.
She will make her a woman of the world. When the great property is safely hers, then she can
trust HER OWN daughter.

As to the poor orphan, buried in Paris, educated as a "bourgeoise," she will never see her
face, save perhaps, as a passing stranger. The child can be happy in the solid comforts of
a middle-class family. It is good enough for her.

And Marie Berard. She needs her, at all cost, as a protection, the only bulwark against any
dark scheme of Hardin's. Her tool, and her one witness.

Ten years in the mansion on the hills of San Francisco have given her an insight into Philip
Hardin's desperate moves on the chessboard of life. Love, faith, truth, she dares not expect.
A lack of fatherly tenderness to the child he has wronged; his refusal to put a wedding ring
on her own finger, tell her the truth. She knows her hold is slight. But NOW the very millions
of Lagunitas shall fight against him. Move for move in the play. Blow for blow, if it comes
to a violent rupture.

Hortensc Duval might lose her hold on cold Philip Hardin. The scheming beauty smiles when she
thinks how true Marie Berard will be to the new Madame de Santos. A thorough adventuress, she
can count on her fellow-conspirator. Two smart women, with a solid golden bond, united against
a distant, aging man.

Marie returns, her business-like manner showing no change. "I have found the family," she says.
"They will take the child at once."

In the evening every arrangement is made for an early departure. It is a rare day's work.

Marie Berard conducts the friendless child to its new home, in the morning hours. The luggage
and belongings are despatched. All is over. Safe at last.

Free to move, as soon as the maid returns, Hortense at once leaves her modest quarters. The
bills are all paid. Their belongings are packed as for departure. To the Hotel Meurice, by
a roundabout route, mistress and maid repair. Hortense Duval is no more. A new social birth.

Madame de Santos, in superb apartments, proceeds to arrange her entree into future social greatness.
A modern miracle.

No one has seen the children together in Paris. On the steamer not a suspicion was raised.
Natalie de Santos breathes freely. A few days of preparation makes Madame "au fait" in the
newest fashions. Her notes, cartes de visite, dazzling "batterie de toilette," and every belonging
bear crest, monogram, and initial of the new-born Senora Natalie.

Securely lodged in an aristocratic apartment, Madame de Santos receives her bankers, and the
members of the Southern circle, to whom the Judge has given her the freemasonry of his influence.
Madame de Santos is now a social fact, soon to find her old life a waning memory. The glittering
splendors of the court gaieties are her everyday enjoyments.

Keenly watching all Californians, protected by her former retirement, her foreign appearance
and glamour of wealth impose on all. She soon almost forgets herself and that dark past before
the days of the El Dorado. She is at last secure within wealth's impregnable ramparts, and
defies adverse fate.

An apartment on the Champs Elysees is judiciously chosen by her bankers. Marie Berard, with
her useful allies, aids in the selection of the exquisite adornment. Her own treasures aid
in the "ensemble."

The servants, the equipage of perfect appointment, all her surroundings bespeak the innate
refinement of the woman who has for long years pleased even the exacting Hardin.

Natalie de Santos has not neglected to properly report by telegraph and mail to the guardian
of the person and future millions of Col. Valois' only child.

Her attitude toward society is quiet, dignified, without haste or ostentation. A beautiful
woman, talented, free, rich, and "a la mode," can easily reach the social pleasures of that
gaudy set who now throng the Tuileries.

There is not a care on Natalie de Santos' mind. Her own child is visited, with a growing secret
pleasure. She thrives in the hands of the gentle ladies of the Sacred Heart.

Regularly, Marie Berard brings reports of the other child, whose existence is important for
the present.

Madame de Santos, discreetly veiled, finds time to observe the location and movements of the
orphan. Marie Berard's selection has been excellent.

"Louise Moreau" is the new name of the changeling heiress, now daily becoming more contented
in her new home.

Aristide Dauvray has a happy household. A master decorative workman, only lacking a touch of
genius to be a sculptor, his pride is in his artistic handiwork. His happiness in his good
wife Josephine. His heart centres in his talented boy.

To educate his only son Raoul, to be able to develop his marked talent as an artist, has been
Aristide's one ambition. The proposition to take the girl, and the liberal payments promised,
assure the artistic future of Raoul. Marie Berard has appreciated that the life of this orphan
child is the measure of her own golden fortunes. Good Josephine becomes attached to the shy,
sweet little wanderer, who forgets, day by day, in the new life of Cinderella, her babyish
glimpses of any other land.

Natalie de Santos is safe. Pressing her silken couch, she rests in splendor. Her letters from
Hardin are clear, yet not always satisfactory. Years of daily observance have taught her to
read his character. As letter after letter arrives she cons them all together. Not a word of
personal tenderness. Not an expression which would betray any of their secrets. With no address
or signature, they are full only in directions. He is called for a length of time to Lagunitas,
to put the estate in "general order."

Removed from the sway of Hardin, Natalie relies upon herself. Her buoyant wings bear her on
in society. Recognized as an opponent of the North, she meets those lingering Southern sympathizers
who have little side coteries yet in glittering Paris.

Adulation of her beauty and sparkling wit fires her genius. Her French is classic. The sealed
book of her youth gives no hint of where her fine idiom came from. Merrily Marie Berard recounts
to the luxurious social star the efforts of sly dames and soft-voiced messieurs to fathom the
"De Santos'" past.

Marie Berard is irreproachable; never presuming. She can wait.

Madame Natalie's stormy past has taught her to trust no one. It is her rule from the first
that no one shall see Isabel Valois, the pet of the Sacred Heart Convent, but herself. Little
remains in a month or two, with either child, of its cradle memories. The months spent by the
two girls in mastering a new language are final extinguishers of the past.

Without undue affectation of piety, Madame de Santos gives liberally. The good nuns strive
to fit the young heiress for her dazzling future.

Keenly curious of the dangers of the situation, Natalie writes Hardin that she has sent her
own child away to a country institution, to prevent awkward inquiry. As months roll on, drawn
in by the whirlpool of pleasure, Natalie de Santos' letters become brief. They are only statements
of affairs to her absent "financial agent."

Hardin's letters are acknowledgments of satisfactory news, and directions regarding the education
of the child. He does not refer to the future of the woman who ruled his home so long. No tenderness
for his own child appears. He is engrossed in BUSINESS, and she in PLEASURE. Avarice is the
gentlemanly passion of his later years. "Royal days of every pleasure" for the brilliant woman;
she, ambitious and self-reliant, lives only for the happy moments.

And yet, as Natalie de Santos sweeps from palace ball or the opera, she frames plans as to
the future control of Hardin. To keep the child he fears, where his agency can reach her, is
her aim. To place the child he would ignore, where millions will surround her, is her ambition.
With Marie Berard as friend, confidante, agent, and spy, she can keep these two children apart.
Hortense Duval and Natalie Santos can defy the world.

Distrust of Hardin always burns in her breast. Will he dare to attempt her life; to cut off
her income; to betray her? When the work of years is reflected in her own child's graces and
charms, will the man now aging ever give its mother the name of wife? Her fears belie her hopes.

She must guard her own child, and conceal the other. He may live and work out his schemes.
If he acts well, she will be ready to meet him. If not, the same.

But she has sworn in her heart of hearts, the orphan shall live. If necessary to produce her,
she alone knows her hiding place. If fortune favors, the properties shall descend to her own child.

The year 1865 opens with the maddest gaieties. Though France is drained of men and treasure
for a foolish war in Mexico, glittering streets, rich salons, mad merry-makings and imperial
splendor do not warn gay Lutetia she is tottering toward the dawning war-days of gloom. The
French are drunk with pleasure.

Marie Berard has now a nice little fund of ringing napoleons securely invested, and that hoard
is growing monthly. Natalie de Santos gives freely, amply. The maid bides her time for a great
demand. She can wait.

A rare feminine genius is Natalie de Santos. The steady self-poise of her nature prevents even
a breath of scandal. Frank, daring, and open in her pleasures, she individualizes no swain,
she encourages no one sighing lover. Her name needs no defence save the open record of her
social life. A solid, undisturbed position grows around her. The dear-bought knowledge of her
youth enables her to read the vapid men and women around her.

As keen-eyed as a hawk, Madame Natalie watches the scholar of the Sacred Heart. She takes good
care, also, to verify the substantial comfort and fair education of little Louise Moreau.

With silent lips she moves among the new associates of her later days. Madame de Santos' position
moves toward impregnability, as the months roll on. A "lionne" at last.

Philip Hardin's days are busy after the steamer bears away his "Ex-Queen of the El Dorado."
There are his tangled finances to arrange; giant speculations to follow up. The Lagunitas affairs
are pressing. That hidden mine!

Hardin sets his house in order. The establishment is reduced. He has, now, peace for his schemes.
No petticoat rule now. No prying eyes. As the winter rain howls among his trees, he realizes
that the crash of the Confederacy will bring back clouds of stragglers from the ruin yet to
come. He must take legal possession of Lagunitas. He has a good reason. Its hidden gold will
give him power.

His public life is only cut off for a time. Gold is potent; yes, omnipotent! He can bide his
time. He must find that mine. He has now two points to carry in his game. To rid himself of
the padre is easy, in time. To disembarrass himself of old "Kaintuck" is another thing.

His face grows bitter as he thinks of the boundless wealth to be reached in Lagunitas's glittering
quartz beds. The property must remain in his care.

If the heiress were to die, the public administrator might take it. He knows he is not popular.
His disloyalty is too well known. Besides, Valois' death is not yet officially proven. He has
kept his counsel. No one has seen the will. But the returning wave of Confederates may bring
news. The dead colonel was of too great local fame to drop unheeded into his grave.

His carefully prepared papers make him the representative of Colonel Valois. He is legal guardian
of the child. He will try and induce "Kaintuck" to quit the rancho. Then he will be able to
open the mines. If the Confederacy totters to its fall, with the control of that wealth he
may yet hold the highest place on the coast.

Dreaming over his cigar, he knows that legislatures can be bought, governors approached, and
high positions gained, by the adroit use of gold. Bribery is of all times and places.

Telegraphing to "Kaintuck" to meet him near Stockton, at the station, with a travelling carriage,
the Judge revolves plans to rid himself of this relic of the Valois regime.

His stay at Lagunitas will be for some weeks. He has now several agents ready to open up the mines.

A liberal use of the income of Lagunitas has buoyed up his sinking credit. But his stock-gambling
has been desperately unlucky. Hardin revolves in his mind the displacement of old "Kaintuck."
The stage sweeps down the San Joaquin to the station, where his team awaits him. An unwonted
commotion greets him there. His arrival is opportune. In the room which is the office, bar,
and billiard-room of the little hostelry, poor old "Kaintuck" lies dying, when the Judge dismounts.
It is the hand of fate.

During the hours of waiting, a certain freedom, induced by copious draughts of fiery Bourbon,
caused the old foreman to injudiciously "Hurrah for Jeff Davis." He gave free vent to his peculiar
Southern opinions.

A sudden quarrel with a stranger results in a quick resort to weapons. Benumbed with age and
whiskey, the old trapper is shot while tugging at his heavy "Colt."

Before the smoke cleared away the stranger was far away. Dashing off, he spurred his horse
at full speed into the chaparral. No one dared, no one cared, to follow a desperate man riding
for his life.

Hardin orders every attention to the sufferer. Old "Kaintuck" is going out alone on the dark river.

Hardin, steeled to scenes like this, by an exciting life, blesses this opportune relief. "Kaintuck"
is off his hands forever. Before the Judge leaves, a rude examination by a justice precedes
the simple obsequies of the dead ranger.

One more red mound by the wayside. A few pencilled words on a shingle mark the grave, soon
to be trampled down by the feet of cattle and horses. So, one by one, many of the old pioneers
leave the theatre of their aimless lives.

The Judge, happy at heart, bears a grave face. He drives into Lagunitas. Its fields looked
never so fair. Seated in the mansion house, with every luxury spread out before him, his delighted
eye rests on the diamond lake gleaming in the bosom of the fair landscape. It already seems
his own.

He settles in his easy-chair with an air of conscious lordship. Padre Francisco, studiously
polite, answers every deft question. He bears himself with the self-possession of a man merely
doing his duty.

Does the priest know of the hidden gold mines? No. A few desultory questions prove this. "Kaintuck's"
lips are sealed forever in death. The secret is safe.

Padre Francisco does not delay his request to be allowed to depart. As he sips his ripe Mission
claret, he tells Judge Hardin of the desire of years to return to France. There are now no
duties here to hold him longer. He desires to give the Judge such family papers as are yet
in his charge. He would like practical advice as to his departure. For he has grown into his
quiet retreat and fears the outer world.

With due gravity the lawyer agrees in the change. He requests the padre to permit him to write
his San Francisco agent of the arrival of the retiring missionary.

"If you will allow me," he says, "my agent shall furnish your passage to Paris and arrange
for all your wants."

Padre Francisco bows. It is, after all, only his due.

"When will you wish to leave?" queries Hardin.

"To-morrow, Judge. My little affairs are in readiness."

During the evening the light of the good priest glimmers late in the lonely little sacristy.
The chapel bell tolls the last vespers, for long years, at Lagunitas.

All the precious family papers are accepted by the Judge when the padre makes ready for his
departure. The priest, with faltering voice, says early mass, with a few attendants. Delivering
up the keys of the sacristy, chapel, and his home to the Judge, he quietly shares the noonday meal.

If there is sadness in his heart his placid face shows it not. He sits in the lonely room replete
with memories of the past.

He is gone for a half hour, after the wily Judge lights his cigar, to contemplate the rich
domain which shall be his, from the porch of the old home. When the priest returns, it is from
the graves of the loved dead. He has plucked the few flowers blooming there. They are in his hand.

His eyes are moist with the silent tears of one who mourns the useless work of long years.
They have been full of sadness, separation, spiritual defeat, and untimely death. Even Judge
Hardin, merciless as he is, feels compassion for this lonely man. He has asked nothing of him.
The situation is delicate.

"Can I do anything for you, Father Francisco?" says Hardin, with some real feeling. He is a
gentleman "in modo." The priest may be penniless. He must not go empty-handed.

"Nothing, thank you, save to accept my adieux and my fondest blessing for the little Isabel."

He hands Judge Hardin the address of the religious house to which he will retire in Paris.

"I will deliver to your agent the other papers and certificates of the family. They are stored
for safety at the Mission Dolores church."

"My agent will have orders to do everything you wish," remarks the Judge, as the carriage drives
up for the priest.

Hardin arises, with a sudden impulse. The modest pride of this grave old French gentleman will
not be rudely intruded on. He must not, he shall not, go away entirely empty-handed. The lawyer
returns with an envelope, and hands it to the padre.

"From the colonel," he says. "It is an order for ten thousand dollars upon his San Francisco
bankers."

"I will be taken care of by those who sent me here," simply remarks the padre.

Hardin flushes.

"You can use it, father, in France, for the poor, for the friendless; you will find some worthy
objects."

The priest bows gravely, and presses the hand of the lawyer. With one loving look around the
old plaza, the sweeping forest arches, and the rolling billows of green, he leaves the lonely
lake gleaming amid its wooded shores. Its beauty is untouched by the twenty long years since
first he wandered by its shores. A Paradise in a forest. His few communicants have said adieu.
There is nothing to follow him but the incense-breathing murmurs of the forest branches, from
fragrant pine and stately redwood, sighing, "Go, in God's name."

Their wind-wafted voices speak to him of the happy past. The quiet, saddened, patient padre
trusts himself as freely to his unknown future, as a child in its mother's cradling arms. In
his simple creed, "God is everywhere."

So Francois Ribaut goes in peace to spend a few quiet days at the Mission Dolores church. He
will then follow the wild ocean waves back to his beloved France. "Apres vingt ans." A month
sees him nearing the beloved shores.

Walking the deck, he thinks often of that orphan child in Europe. He remembers, strangely,
that the Judge had neglected to give him any clew to her present dwelling. Ah! he can write.
Yes, but will he be answered? Perhaps. But Judge Hardin is a cunning old lawyer.

Disembarrassed of the grave priest, Hardin at once sends orders for his prospectors. A new
man appears to superintend the grant.

It is with grim satisfaction he reflects that the hand of fate has removed every obstacle to
his control. His fiery energy is shown by the rapidity with which hundreds of men swarm on
ditch and flume. They are working at mill and giant water-wheels. They are delving and tracing
the fat brown quartz, gold laden, from between the streaks of rifted basalt and porphyry.

There is no one to spy, none to hinder now. Before the straggling veterans of Lee and Johnston
wander back to the golden West, the quartz mine of Lagunitas yields fabulous returns.

The legacy of "Kaintuck" was wonderful. The golden bars, run out roughly at the mine, represented
to Hardin the anchor of his tottering credit. They are the basis of a great fortune, and the
means of political prestige.

When the crash came, when the Southern flags were furled in the awful silence of defeat and
despair, the wily lawyer, safe in Lagunitas, was crowning his golden fortunes.

Penniless, broken in pride and war-worn, the survivors of the men whom he urged into the toils
of secession, returned sadly home, scattering aimlessly over the West. Fools of fortune.

Philip Hardin, satisfied with the absence of the infant heiress, coldly stood aloof from the
ruin of his friends.

As the months ran on, accumulating his private deposits, Judge Hardin, engrossed in his affairs,
grew indifferent even to the fate of the woman he had so long cherished. His unacknowledged
child is naught to him.

It was easy to keep the general income and expenses of the ranch nearly even in amount.

But the MINE was a daily temptation to the only man who knew its real ownership. It must be
his at any cost. Time must show the way. He must have a title.

Hardin looked far into the future. His very isolation and inaction was a proof of no overt
treason. With the power of this wealth he might, when a few years rolled away, reach lofty
civic honors. Young at sixty, as public men are considered, he wonders, looking over the superb
estate, if a high political marriage would not reopen his career. In entertaining royally at
San Francisco and Sacramento, with solid and substantial claims in society, he may yet be able
to place his name first in the annals of the coast. A senator. Why not? Ambition and avarice.

With prophetic insight, he knows that sectional rancor will not long exist in California. Not
really, in the war, a divided community, a debatable land, there will be thousands of able,
hardy men, used to excitement, spreading over the West. It is a land of easy and liberal opinion.
Business and the mine's affairs cause him to visit San Francisco frequently. He reaches out
for all men as his friends. Seated in his silent parlors, walking moodily through the beautiful
rooms, haunted with memories of the splendid "anonyma" whose reign is yet visible, he dreams
of his wasted past, his lonely future. Can he repair it? Enveloped in smoke wreaths, from his
portico he surveys the thousand twinkling city lights below. He is careless of the future movements
of his Parisian goddess.

It cost Philip Hardin no heart-wrench to part with voluptuous Hortense Duval. Partners in a
crime, the stain of "French Charlie's" blood crimsoned their guilty past. An analytical, cold,
all-mastering mind, he had never listened to the heart. He supposed Hortense to be as chilly
in nature as himself. Yet she writes but seldom. Taught by his profession to dread silence
from a woman, he casually corresponds with several trusted friends of the Confederate colony
in France. What is her mystery? Madame Natalie de Santos is now a personage. The replies tell
him of her real progress in the glittering ranks of the capital, and her singularly steady
life. As the months roll on, he becomes a little anxious. She is far too cool and self-contained
to suit him. He wishes women to lean on him and to work his will. Does she intend to establish
a thorough position abroad, and claim some future rights? Has she views of a settlement? Who knows?

Hardin sees too late, that in the control of both children, and her knowledge of his past,
she is now independent of his mere daily influence. The millions of Lagunitas mine cannot be
hidden. If he recalls the heiress, will "Natalie de Santos" be as easily controlled as "Hortense
Duval"?

And his own child, what of her? Hardin dares not tie himself up by acknowledging her claims.
If he gives a large sum to the girl, it will give his "sultana" a powerful weapon for the future.

Is she watching him through spies? She betrays no anxiety to know anything, save what he imparts.
He dare not go to Paris, for fear of some public scandal and a rupture. He must confirm his
position there. What new friends has she there?

Ah! He will wait and make a final settlement of a handsome fortune on the child. He will provide
a future fixed income for this new social star, now, at any rate, dependent on her obedience.
Reports, in due form, accompany the occasional communications forwarded from the "Sacred Heart"
as to the heiress. This must all be left to time.

With a deep interest, Hardin sees the cessation of all hostilities, the death of Lincoln, the
disbandment, in peace, of the great Union armies.

Bayonets glitter no more upon the crested Southern heights. The embers of the watchfires are
cold, gray ashes now. The lonely bivouac of the dead is the last holding of the foughten fields.

While the South and East is a graveyard or in mourning, strange to say, only a general relief
is felt in the West. The great issue easily drops out of sight. There are here no local questions,
no neighborhood hatreds, no appealing graves. Happy California! happy, but inglorious. The
railway approaches completion. A great activity of scientific mining, enterprises of scope
and local development, urge the Western communities to action. The bonanza of Lagunitas gives
Judge Hardin even greater local prominence. He establishes his residence at the old home in
the Sierras.

With no trusted associates, he splits and divides the funds from the mine, placing them in
varied depositories. He refrains from an undue appearance of wealth or improvement at the rancho
itself. No one knows the aggregates, the net returns, save himself. Cunning old robber.

To identify himself with the interior and southern part of the State, he enters the higher
body of the Legislature. His great experience and unflagging hospitalities make him at once
a leader.

Identified with State and mining interests, he engages public attention. He ignores all contention,
and drops the question of the Rebellion. A hearty welcome from one and all, proves that his
commanding talents are recognized.

There are no relatives, no claims, no meddlesome legatees to question the disposition of Colonel
Valois' estate. His trusteeship is well known, and his own influence is pre-eminent in the
obscure District Court having control of the legal formalities.

Hardin is keenly watchful of all returning ex-Confederates who might have been witnesses of
Maxime Valois' death. They do not appear. His possession is unchallenged. His downy couch grows
softer daily.

He has received the family papers left by the departing padre. They are the baptismal papers
of the little heiress. The last vouchers.

Hardin, unmoved by fear, untouched by sympathy, never thinks of the lowly grave before the
ramparts of Atlanta. The man lies there, who appealed to his honor, to protect the orphaned
child, but he is silent in death.

He decides to quietly strip the rancho of its great metallic wealth. He will hold the land
unimproved, to be a showing in future years should trouble come as to the settlement of the estate.

With the foresight of the advocate, Hardin fears the Valois heirs of New Orleans. He must build
up his defensive works in that quarter. From several returned "Colonels" and "Majors" he hears
of the death of old Judge Valois.

The line of the family is extinct, save the boy in Paris, who has been lost sight of. A wandering
artist.

A sudden impulse seizes him. He likes not the ominous silence of Natalie as to important matters.

Selecting one of his law clerks (now an employee of the estate), he sends him to Paris, amply
supplied with funds, to look up the only scion left of the old family. He charges his agent
to spare neither money nor time in the quest. A full and detailed report of Madame de Santos'
doings and social surroundings is also ordered.

"Mingle in the circles of travelling Americans, spend a little money, and find out what you
can of her private life," are his orders. He says nothing of the heiress.

In the gay season of 1866, Hardin, still bent on the golden quest in the hills, reads with
some astonishment, the careful "precis" of his social spy. He writes:

"I have searched Paris all over. The old Confederate circles are scattered now. They are out
of favor at the imperial court. Even Duke Gwin, the leader of our people, has departed. His
Dukedom of Sonora has gone up with our Confederacy. From one or two attaches of the old Confederate
agency, I learned that the boy Armand Valois is now sixteen or seventeen years old, if living.
He was educated in one of the best schools here, and is an artist by choice. When his father
died he was left without means. I understand he intended to make a living by selling sketches
or copying pictures. I have no description of him. There are thousands of young students lost
in this maze. I might walk over him in the Louvre and not know him. If you wish me to advertise
in the journals I might do so."

"Fool," interjects Hardin, as he reads this under the vines at Lagunitas. "I don't care to
look up an heir to Lagunitas. One is enough."

"Now for Madame de Santos: I have by some effort worked into the circle of gayety, where I
have met her. She is royally beautiful. I should say about thirty-five. Her position is fixed
as an 'elegante." Her turnout in the Bois is in perfect taste. She goes everywhere, entertains
freely, and, if rumor is true, is very rich. She receives great attention, as they say she
is guardian of a fabulously wealthy young girl at one of the convents here.

"Madame de Santos is very accomplished, and speaks Spanish, French, and English equally well.
I have made some progress in her acquaintance, but since, by accident, she learned I was from
California she has been quite distant with me. No one knows her past, here. It is supposed
she has lived in Mexico, and perhaps California. The little feminine 'Monte Cristo' is said
to be Spanish or Mexican. Madame Santos' reputation is absolutely unblemished. In all the circle
of admirers she meets, she favors but one. Count Ernesto de Villa Rocca, an Italian nobleman,
is quite the 'ami de maison.'

"I have not seen the child, save at a distance. Madame permits no one to meet her. She only
occasionally drives her out, and invariably alone with herself.

"She visits the convent school regularly. She seems to be a vigilant wide-awake woman of property.
She goes everywhere, opera, balls, theatres, to the Tuileries. She is popular with women of
the best set, especially the French. She sees very few Americans. She is supposed to be Southern
in her sympathies. Her life seems to be as clear as a diamond. She has apparently no feminine
weaknesses. If there is a sign of the future, it is that she may become 'Countess de Villa
Rocca.' He is a very fine fellow, has all the Italian graces, and has been in the 'Guardia
Nobile.' He is desperately devoted to Madame, and to do him justice, is an excellent fellow,
as Italian counts go.

"By the way, I met old Colonel Joe Woods here. He entertained me in his old way. He showed
me the sights. He has become very rich, and operates in New York, London, and Paris. He is
quite a swell here. He is liberal and jolly. Rather a change from the American River bar, to
the Jockey Club at Paris. He sends you remembrances.

"I shall wait your further orders, and return on telegraph. I cannot fathom the household mysteries
of the Madame. When all Paris says a woman is 'dead square,' we need not probe deeper. There
is no present sign of her marrying Villa Rocca, but he is the first favorite."

"So," muses the veteran intriguer Hardin, as he selects a regalia, "my lady is wary, cautious,
and blameless. Danger signals these. I must watch this Villa Rocca. Is he a 'cavalier servente'?
Can he mean mischief? She would not marry him, I know," he murmurs.

The red danger signal's flash shows to Hardin, Marie Berard standing by the side of Natalie
and the two girls. Villa Rocca is only a dark shade of the background as yet.

He smiles grimly.

The clicking telegraph key invokes the mysterious cable. For two days Judge Philip paces his
room a restless wolf.

His prophetic mind projects the snares which will bring them all to his feet. He will buy this
soubrette's secrets.

A French maid's greed and Punic faith can be counted on always.

With trembling fingers he tears open the cipher reply from his spy. He reads with flaming eyes:

"Have seen girl; very knowing. Says she can tell you something worth one hundred thousand francs.
Will not talk now. Money useless at present. She wants your definite instructions, and says,
wait. Cable me orders."

Hardin peers through the grindstone, and evolves his orders. He acts with Napoleon's rapidity.
His answer reads:

"Let her alone. Tell her to notify Laroyne & Co., 16 Rue Vivienne, when ready to sell her goods.
Wait orders."

Hardin revolves in his busy brain every turn of fortune's wheel.

Has Natalie an intrigue?

Is she already secretly married? Is the heiress of Lagunitas dead?

The labors of his waking hours and the brandy bottle only tell him of an unfaithful woman's
vagaries; a greedy lover's plots, or the curiosity of the dark-eyed maid, whose avarice is
above her fidelity.

Bah! she will tattle. No woman can resist it; they all talk.

But this Italian cur; he must be watched.

The child! Pshaw; she is a girl in frocks. But Villa Rocca is a needy man of brains and nerve;
he must be foiled.

Now, what is her game? Hardin must acknowledge that she is true to her trust, so far.

The Judge walks over to his telegraph office, for there is a post, telegraph, and quite a mining
settlement now on the Lagunitas grant.

He sends a cable despatch to Paris to his agent, briefly:

"Stop work. Report acceptable. Come back. Take your time leisurely, East. Well pleased."

He does not want any misplaced zeal of his spy to alarm Natalie. As the year 1866 rolls on,
the regular reports, business drafts and details as to Isabel Valois are the burden of the
correspondence. Natalie's heart is silent. Has she one? She has not urged him to come back;
she has not pressed the claims of her child. His agent returns and amplifies the general reports,
but he has no new facts.

The clerk drops into his usual life. He is not curious as to the Madame. "Some collateral business
of the Judge, probably," is his verdict.

While the stamps rattle away in the Lagunitas quartz mills, Judge Hardin takes an occasional
run to the city by the bay. The legislative season approaches. Senator Hardin's rooms at the
Golden Eagle are the centre of political power. Railroads are worming their way into politics.
Franchises and charters are everywhere sought. Over the feasts served by Hardin's colored retainers,
he cements friendships across old party lines.

As Christmas approaches in this year, the Judge receives a letter from Natalie de Santos which
rouses him from his bed of roses. He steadies his nerves with a glass of the best cognac, as
he reads this fond epistle:

I have waited for you to refer to the future of our child. I will not waste words. If you wished
to make me happy, you would have, before now, provided for her. I do not speak of myself. You
have been liberal enough to me. I am keeping up the position you indicated. My child is now
old enough to ask meaning questions, to be informed of her place in the world and to be educated
for it. You spoke of a settlement for her. If anything should happen to me, what would be her
future? Isabel will be of course, in the future, a great lady. There is nothing absolutely
my own. I am dependent on you. What I asked you, Philip, you have not given me: the name of
wife. It is for her, not for myself, I asked it. I have made myself worthy of the position
I would hold. You know our past. I wish absolutely now, to know my child's destiny. If you
will not do the mother justice, what will you do for the child? Whose name shall she bear?
What shall she have?

Philip, I beg you to act in these matters and to remember that, if I once was Hortense Duval,
I now am NATALIE DE SANTOS.

Danger signals. Red and flaring they burn before Hardin's steady eyes. What does she mean?
Is her last clause a threat? Woman! Perfidious woman!

Hardin tosses on a weary couch several nights before he can frame a reply. It is not a money
question. In his proud position now, forming alliances daily with the new leaders of the State,
he could not stoop to marry this woman. Never. To give the child a block sum of money would
be only to give the mother more power. To settle an income on her might be a future stain on
his name. Shall he buy off Natalie de Santos? Does she want money alone? If he did so, would
not Villa Rocca marry her and he then have two blackmailers on his hands? To whom can he trust
Isabel Valois if he breaks with Natalie? The girl is growing, and may ask leading questions.
She must be kept away. In a few years she not only will be marriageable, but at eighteen her
legal property must be turned over.

And to give up the Lagunitas quartz lead? Hardin's brow is gloomy. He uses days for a decision.
The letter makes him very shaky in his mind. Is the "ex-Queen of the El Dorado" ready to strike
a telling blow?

He remembers how tiger-like her rage when she drew her dagger over the hand of "French Charlie."
She can strike at need, but what will be her weapon now?

He sets the devilish enginery of his brain at work. His answer to Natalie de Santos is brief
but final:

"You may trust my honor. I shall provide a fund as soon as I can, to be invested as you direct,
either in your name or the other. You can impart to the young person what you wish. In the
meantime you should educate her as a lady. If you desire an additional allowance, write me.
I have many burdens, and cannot act freely now. Trust me yet awhile."

Philip Hardin feels no twinge as he seals this letter. No voice from the grave can reach him.
No proof exists in Natalie de Santos' hands to verify her story.

As for Lagunitas, and orphan Isabel, he pores over every paper left by the unsuspicious Padre
Francisco. He smiles grimly. It was a missionary parish. Its records have been all turned over
to him. He quietly destroys the whole mass of papers left at Lagunitas by the priest. As for
the marriage papers of her parents and certificate of baptism of Isabel, he conceals them,
ready for destruction at a moment's notice.

He will wait till the seven years elapse before filing legal proof of Maxime Valois' death.

Securing from the papers of the old mansion house, materials, old in appearance, he quietly
writes up a bill of sale of the quartz lead known as the Lagunitas mine, to secure the forty
thousand dollars advanced by him to Maxime Valois, dated back to 1861. Days of practice enable
him to imitate the signature of Valois. He appends the manual witness of "Kaintuck" and "Padre
Francisco." They are gone forever; one in the grave, one in a cloister.

This paper he sends quietly to record. It attracts no attention. "Kaintuck" is dead. Valois
sleeps his last sleep. From a lonely cell in a distant French monastery, Padre Francisco will
never hear of this.

As for Isabel Valois, he has a darker plot than mere theft and forgery, for the future.

The years to come will strengthen his possession and drown out all possible gossip.

Natalie de Santos must hang dependent on his bounty. He will not arm her with weapons against
himself. He knows she will not return to face him in California. His power there is too great.
If she dares to marry any one, her hold on him is lost. She must lie to hide her past. Hardin
smiles, for he counts upon a woman's vanity and love of luxury. The veteran lawyer sums up
the situation to himself. She is powerless. She dares not talk. Time softens down all passions.
When safe, he will give the child some funds, but very discreetly.

And to bury the memory of Maxime Valois forever is his task.

Broadening his political influence, Hardin moves on to public prominence. He knows well he
can bribe or buy judge and jury, suppress facts, and use the golden hammer in his hands, to
beat down any attack. Gold, blessed gold!

The clattering stamps ring out merry music at Lagunitas as the months sweep by.

CHAPTER XV.

AN OLD PRIEST AND A YOUNG ARTIST.--THE CHANGELINGS.

As a thoroughfare of all nations, nothing excels the matchless Louvre. Though the fatal year
of 1870 summons the legions of France under the last of the Napoleons to defeat, Paris, queen
of cities, has yet to see its days of fire and flame. The Prussians thunder at its gates. It
is "l'annee terrible. "Dissension and rapine within. The mad wolves of the Commune are yet
to rage over the bloody paths of the German conqueror.

Yet a ceaseless crowd of strangers, a polyglot procession of all ages and sexes, pours through
these wonderful halls of art.

In the sunny afternoons of the battle year, an old French priest wanders through these noble
galleries. Pale and bowed, Francois Ribaut dreams away his waning hours among the priceless
relics of the past. These are the hours of release from rosary and breviary. The ebb and flow
of humanity, the labors of the copyists, the diverse types of passing human nature, all interest
the padre.

He has waited in vain for responses to his frequent letters to Judge Hardin. Perhaps the Judge
is dead. Death's sickle swings unceasingly. The little heiress may have returned to her western
native land. He waits and marvels. He finally sends a last letter through the clergy at Mission
Dolores. To this he receives a response that they are told the young lady has returned to America
and is being educated in the Eastern States.

With a sigh Francois Ribaut abandons all hopes of seeing once more the child he had baptized,
the orphaned daughter of his friend. She is now far from him. He feels assured he will never
cross the wild Atlantic again.

Worn and weary, waiting the approach of old age, he yet participates, with a true Frenchman's
patriotism, in the sorrows of "l'annee terrible." Nothing brightens the future! Human nature
itself seems giving way.

All is disaster. Jacques Bonhomme's blood waters in vain his native fields. Oh, for the great
Napoleon! Alas, for the days of 1805!

As he wanders among the pictures he makes friendly acquaintance with rising artist and humble
imitator. The old padre is everywhere welcome. His very smile is a benediction.

He pauses one day at the easel of a young man who is copying a Murillo Madonna. Intent upon
his work, the artist politely answers, and resumes his task. Spirited and artistic in execution,
the copy betokens a rare talent.

Day after day, on his visits, the padre sees the glowing canvas nearing completion. He is strangely
attracted to the resolute young artist.

Dark-eyed and graceful, the young painter is on the threshold of manhood. With seemingly few
friends or acquaintances, he works unremittingly. Padre Francisco learns that he is a self-supporting
art-student. He avows frankly that art copying brings him both his living and further education.

Francois Ribaut is anxious to know why this ardent youth toils, when his fellows are in the
field fighting the invaders. He is astonished when the young man tells him he is an American.

"You are a Frenchman in your language and bearing," says the priest doubtfully.

The young artist laughs.

"I was educated here, mon pere, but I was born in Louisiana. My name is Armand Valois."

The old priest's eyes glisten.

"I knew an American named Valois, in California. He was a Louisianan also."

The youth drops his brush. His eyes search the padre's face. "His name?" he eagerly asks.

"He was called Maxime Valois," says the priest, Sadly. "He went into the Southern war and was
killed."

The artist springs from his seat. Leading the priest to a recessed window-seat, he says, quietly:

"Mon pere, tell me of him. He was my cousin, and the last of my family. I am now the only Valois."

Padre Francisco overstays his hour of relaxation. For the artist learns of the heroic death
of his gallant kinsman, and all the chronicles of Lagunitas.

"But you must come to me. I must see you often and tell you more," concludes the good old priest.
He gives Armand his residence, a religious establishment near Notre Dame, where he can spend
his days under the shadows of the great mystery-haunted fane.

Armand tells the priest his slender history.

Left penniless by his aged father's death, the whirlwind of the Southern war swept away the
last of his property. Old family friends, scattered and poor, cannot help him. He has been
his own master for years. His simple annals are soon finished. He tells of his heart comrade,
Raoul Dauvray (his senior a few years), now fighting in the Army of the Loire. The priest learns
that the young American remained, to be a son in the household, while Raoul, a fellow art-student
of past years, has drawn his sword for France.

Agitated by the discovery, Padre Francisco promises to visit the young man soon. It seems all
so strange. A new romance! Truly the world is small after all. Is it destiny or chance?

In a few weeks, Francois Ribaut is the beloved of that little circle, where Josephine Dauvray
is the household ruler. Priest and youth are friends by the memory of the dead soldier of the
Confederacy. Armand writes to New Orleans and obtains full details of the death, in the hour
of victory, of the gallant Californian. His correspondent says, briefly, "Colonel Henry Peyton,
who succeeded your relative in command of the regiment, left here after the war, for Mexico
or South America. He has never been heard from. He is the one man who could give you the fullest
details of the last days of your kinsman--if he still lives."

Thundering war rolls nearer the gates of Paris. The horrible days of approaching siege and
present danger, added to the gloom of the national humiliation, make the little household a
sad one. Padre Francisco finds a handsome invalid officer one day at the artist's home. Raoul
Dauvray, severely wounded, is destined to months of inaction. There is a brother's bond between
the two younger men. Padre Francisco lends his presence to cheer the invalid. Father and mother
are busied with growing cares, for the siege closes in.

The public galleries are now all closed. The days of "decheance" are over. France is struggling
out of the hands of tyranny under the invaders' scourge into the nameless horrors of the Commune.

It is impossible to get away, and unsafe to stay. The streets are filled with the mad unrest
of the seething population. By the side of the young officer of the Garde Mobile, Francois
Ribaut ministers and speeds the recovery of the chafing warrior. Thunder of guns and rattle
of musketry nearer, daily, bring fresh alarms. Armand Valois has thrown away the palette and
is at last on the ramparts with his brother artists, fighting for France. The boy has no country,
for his blood is as true to the Lost Cause as the gallant cousin who laid down his life at
Atlanta. He can fight for France, for he feels he has no other country now. It has been his
foster-mother.

Bright and helpful, demure and neat-handed, is the little nurse, who is the life of the household.
Padre Francisco already loves the child. "Louise Moreau" is a pretty, quiet little maiden of
twelve. Good Josephine Dauvray has told the priest of the coming of the child. He listens to
the whole story. He sighs to think of some dark intrigue, behind the mask of this poor child's
humble history. He gravely warns Josephine to tell him all the details of this strange affair.
The motherly care and protection of Josephine has rendered the shy child happy. She knows no
home but her little nest with the Dauvrays. Her education is suited to her modest station in
life. The substantial payments and furtive visits of the woman who is responsible for her,
tell the priest there is here a mystery to probe.

Josephine casts down her eyes when Pere Francois asks her sternly if she has not traced the
woman who is the only link between her charge and the past. Interest against duty.

"I have followed her, mon pere, but I do not know her home. She comes irregularly, sometimes
on foot, sometimes in a carriage. I have always lost all traces. She must have friends here,
but I cannot find them, for she was sent to us by others to give this child a home."

"This must be looked into," murmurs the priest.

He interrogates the soldier and also Armand when he returns from the lines, as the siege drags
slowly on. They know nothing save the fact of the child's being friendless. It may be right;
it may be wrong. "Voila tout." It's the way of Paris.

The priest is much disturbed in mind. Since his conversations with Armand Valois he feels a
vague unrest in his heart as to the young artist's rights in Lagunitas. Does none of that great
estate go to Armand? Is this equitable? There must be some share of the domain, which would
legally descend to him. In the days of the convalescence of Raoul Dauvray, the two friends
of the soldier-artist, now waiting the orders for the great attack, commune as to his rights.
It would not be well to disturb him with false hopes.

The gentle old priest tells Raoul the whole story of Lagunitas.

"Mon pere," says the sculptor, "I think there is something wrong with the affairs of that estate.
This great Judge may wish you out of the way. He may wish to keep Armand out of his rights.
He is deceiving you. It would be well, when brighter days come, that Armand should go to the
western land and see this man."

"But he is poor," Raoul sighs, "and he cannot go."

"If he writes to the 'avocat,' the man will be on his guard."

Pere Francois takes many a pinch of snuff. He ponders from day to day. When the fatal days
of the surrender of Paris come, Armand returns saddened and war-worn, but safe. The victorious
columns of the great German "imperator" march under the Arc de Triomphe. Their bayonets shine
in the Bois de Boulogne. Thundering cannon at Versailles bellow a salute to the new-crowned
Emperor of Germany.

The days of the long siege have been dreadful. Privation, the streams of wounded, and the dull
boom of the guns of the forts are sad witnesses of the ruin of war.

When to the siege and the shame of surrender, the awful scenes of the Commune are added, each
day has a new trial. Raoul is well enough to be out, now. The two young men guard the household.
Aristide Dauvray is gloomily helpless at his fireside. Armand busies himself in painting and
sketching. Pere Francois' visits are furtive, for the priest's frock is a poor safeguard now.
Already the blood of the two murdered French generals, Lecomte and Clement-Thomas, cries to
heaven for vengeance against rash mutiny.

Raoul Dauvray foresees the downfall of the socialistic mob. After consultation, he decides
to take a place where he can protect the little household when the walls are stormed. He escapes
by night to the lines of the Versaillese.

For, maddened Paris is now fighting all France. In his capacity of officer, he can at once
insure the personal safety of his friends when the city is taken.

The red flag floats on the Hotel de Ville. The very streets are unsafe. Starvation faces the
circle around Aristide Dauvray's hearth. Mad adventurers, foolish dreamers, vain "bourgeois"
generals, head the Communists. Dombrowski, Cluseret, Flourens, the human tigers Ferre and Lullier,
Duval, Bergeret, and Eudes, stalk in the stolen robes of power. Gloomy nights close sad and
dreary days. From Issy and Vanvres huge shells curve their airy flight, to carry havoc from
French guns into French ranks.

Hell seems to have vomited forth its scum. Uncanny beings lurk at the corners. Wild with cognac
and absinthe, the unruly mob commits every wanton act which unbridled wickedness can suggest.
Good men are powerless, and women exposed to every insult. Public trade is suspended. Robbery
and official pillage increase. The creatures of a day give way quickly to each other. Gallant
Rossell, who passed the Prussian lines to serve France, indignantly sheathes his sword. He
is neither a Nero nor a mountebank.

Alas, for the talented youth! a death volley from his old engineer troops awaits him at the
Buttes de Chaumont. To die the dishonored death of a felon, a deserter!

Alas, for France: bright of face and hard of heart! Tigress queen, devouring your noblest children.

While Thiers proclaims the law, he draws around him the wreck of a great army. A bloody victory
over demented brethren hangs awful laurels on the French sword: De Gallifet, Vinoy, Ducrot,
L'Admirault, Cissey, D'Aurelle de Palladines, Besson and Charrette surround the unlucky veteran,
Marshal McMahon, Duc de Magenta. General Le Flo, the Minister of War, hurls this great army
against the two hundred and fifty-two battalions of National Guards within the walls of Paris.
These fools have a thousand cannon.

Down in the Bois de Boulogne, the fighting pickets pour hissing lead into the bosoms of brothers.
From the heights where the brutal Prussian soldiery grinned over the blackened ruins of the
ill-starred Empress Eugenie's palace of St. Cloud, the cannon of the Versaillese rain shot
and shell on the walls of defenceless Paris.

Pere Francois is a blessing in these sad and weary days. Clad "en bourgeois," he smuggles in
food and supplies. He cheers the half-distracted Josephine. Armand Valois keeps the modest
little maiden Louise, fluttering about the home studio which he shares with Raoul. Their casts
and models, poor scanty treasures, make their modest sanctum a wonder to the girl. Her life's
romance unfolds. Art and dawning love move her placid soul. The days of wrangling wear away.
An occasional smuggled note from Raoul bids them be of cheer. Once or twice, the face of Marie
Berard is seen at the door for a moment.

Thrusting a packet of notes in Josephine's hand, she bids her guard the child and keep her
within her safe shelter.

The disjointed masses of Communists wind out on April 3d of the terrible year of '71, to storm
the fortified heights held by the Nationalists.

Only a day before, at Courbevoie, their bayonets have crossed in fight. Mont Valerien now showers
shells into Paris. Bergeret, Duval, and Eudes lead huge masses of bloodthirsty children of
the red flag, into a battle where quickening war appalls the timid Louise. It makes her cling
close to Armand. The human family seems changed into a pack of ravening wolves. Pouring back,
defeated and dismayed, the Communists rage in the streets. The grim fortress of Mont Valerien
has scourged the horde of Bergeret. Duval's column flees; its defeated leader is promptly shot
by the merciless Vinoy. Fierce De Gallifet rages on the field--his troopers sabring the socialists
without quarter.

Flourens' dishonored body lies, riddled with bullets, on a dung heap at St. Cloud.

Eudes steals away, to sneak out and hide his "loot" in foreign lands. Red is the bloody flail
with which McMahon thrashes out Communism.

The prisoned family, joined by Pere Francois, now a fugitive, day by day shudder at the bedlam
antics and reign of blood around them.

Saintly Archbishop Darboy dies under the bullets of the Communists. His pale face appeals to
God for mercy.

Vengeance is yet to come. The clergy are now hunted in the streets! Plunder and rapine reign!
Orgies and wild wassail hold a mocking sway in the courts of death. Unsexed women, liberated
thieves, and bloodthirsty tramps prey on the unwary, the wounded, or the feeble. On April 3Oth,
the great fort of Issy falls into the hands of the government. Blazing shells rain, in the
murky night air, down on Paris. Continuous fighting from April 2d until May 21st makes the
regions of Auteuil, Neuilly, and Point du Jour a wasted ruin.

Frenzied fiends drag down the Colonne Vendome where the great Corsican in bronze gazed on a
scene of wanton madness never equalled. Not even when drunken Nero mocked at the devastation
of the imperial city by the Tiber, were these horrors rivalled.

Down the beautiful green slopes into the Bois de Boulogne, the snaky lines of sap and trench
bring the octopus daily nearer to the doomed modern Babylon. Flash of rifle gun and crack of
musketry re-echo in the great park. It is now shorn of its lovely trees, where man and maid
so lately held the trysts of love. A bloody dew rains on devoted Paris.

A fateful Sunday is that twenty-first of May when the red-mouthed cannon roar from dawn till
dark. At eventide, the grim regulars bayonet the last defenders of the redoubts at the Point
du Jour gates. The city is open to McMahon.

The lodgment once made, a two nights' bombardment adds to the horrors of this living hell.

On the twenty-third, Montmartre's bloody shambles show how merciless are the stormers. Dombrowski
lies dead beside his useless guns. All hope is lost. Murder and pillage reign in Paris.

Behind their doors, barricaded with the heavier furniture, the family of Aristide Dauvray invoke
the mercy of God. They are led by Pere Francois, who thinks the awful Day of Judgment may be
near. Humanity has passed its limits. Fiends and furies are the men and women, who, crazed
with drink, swarm the blood-stained streets.

In their lines, far outside, the stolid Prussians joke over their beer, as they learn of the
wholesale murder finishing red Bellona's banquet. "The French are all crazy." They laugh.

The twenty-fourth of May arrives. Paris is aflame. Battle unceasing, storm of shell, rattle
of rifles, and cannon balls skipping down the Champs Elysees mark this fatal day. A deep tide
of human blood flows from the Madeleine steps to the Seine. The river is now filled with bodies.
Columns of troops, with heavy tramp and ringing platoon volleys, disperse the rallying squads
of rebels, or storm barricade after barricade. Squadrons of cavalry whirl along, and cut down
both innocent and guilty.

After three awful days more, the six thousand bodies lying among the tombs of Pere la Chaise
tell that the last stronghold of the Commune has been stormed. Belleville and Buttes de Chaumont
are piled with hundreds of corpses. The grim sergeants' squads are hunting from house to house,
bayoneting skulking fugitives, or promptly shooting any persons found armed.

The noise of battle slowly sinks away. Flames and smoke soar to the skies: the burnt offering
now; the blood offering is nearly over.

Thirty superb palaces of the municipality are in flames. Under Notre Dame's sacred roof, blackened
brands and flooded petroleum tell of the human fiends' visit.

The superb ruins of the Tuileries show what imperial France has been. Its flaming debris runs
with streams of gold, silver, and melted crystal.

Banks, museums, and palaces have been despoiled. Boys and old crones trade costly jewels in
the streets for bread and rum. The firing parties are sick of carnage.

Killing in cold blood ceases now, from sheer mechanical fatigue.

On the twenty-eighth, a loud knocking on the door of the house brings Aristide Dauvray to the
door. A brief parley. The obstructions are cleared. Raoul is clasped in his father's arms.
Safe at last. Grim, bloody, powder-stained, with tattered clothes, he is yet unwounded. A steady
sergeant and half-dozen men are quickly posted as a guard. They can breathe once more. This
help is sadly needed. In a darkened room above, little Louise Moreau lies in pain and silence.

Grave-faced Pere Francois is the skilful nurse and physician. A shell fragment, bursting through
a window, has torn her tender, childish body.

Raoul rapidly makes Armand and his father known to the nearest "poste de garde." He obtains
protection for them. His own troops are ordered to escort drafts of the swarming prisoners
to the Orangery at Versailles. Already several thousands of men, women, and children, of all
grades, are penned within the storied walls. Here the princesses of France sported, before
that other great blood frenzy, the Revolution, seized on the Parisians.

With a brief rest, he tears himself away from a mother's arms, and departs for the closing
duties of the second siege of Paris. The drawing in of the human prey completes the work.

Safe at last! Thank God! The family are able to look out to the light of the sun again. They
see the glittering stars of night shine calmly down on the slaughter house, the charnel of
"Paris incendie." The silence is brooding. It seems unfamiliar after months of siege, and battle's
awful music.

In a few days the benumbed survivors crawl around the streets. Open gates enable provisions
to reach the half-famished dwellers within the walls. Over patched bridges, the railways pour
the longed-for supplies into Paris. Fair France is fruitful, even in her year of God's awful
vengeance upon the rotten empire of "Napoleon the Little."

Pere Francois lingers by the bedside of the suffering girl. She moans and tosses in the fever
of her wound. Her mind is wandering.

A slender, girlish arm wanders out of the coverlid often. She lies, with flushed cheeks and
eyes strangely bright.

Tenderly replacing the innocent's little hands under the counterpane, Francois Ribaut starts
with sudden surprise.

He fastens his gaze eagerly on the poor girl's left arm.

Can there be two scars like this?

The sign of the cross.

He is amazed. The little Spanish girl, from whose baby arm he extracted a giant poisonous thorn,
bore a mark like this,--a record of his own surgery.

At far Lagunitas, he had said, playfully to Dolores Valois:

"Your little one will never forget the cross; she will bear it forever."

For the incision left a deep mark on baby Isabel Valois' arm.

The old priest is strangely stirred. He has a lightning flash of suspicion. This girl has no
history; no family; no name. Who is she?

Yet she is watched, cared for, and, even in the hours of danger, money is provided for her.
Ah, he will protect this poor lamb. But it is sheer madness to dream of her being his lost
one. True, her age is that of the missing darling. He kneels by the bed of the wounded innocent,
and softly quavers a little old Spanish hymn. It is a memory of his Californian days.

Great God! her lips are moving; her right hand feebly marks his words, and as he bends over
the sufferer, he hears "Santa Maria, Madre de Dios."

Francois Ribaut falls on his knees in prayer. This nameless waif, in her delirium, is faltering
words of the cradle hymns, the baby lispings of the heiress of Lagunitas.

A light from heaven shines upon the old priest's brow.

Is it, indeed, the heiress!

He can hear his own heart beat.

The wearied, hunted priest feels the breezes from the singing pines once more on his fevered
brow. Again he sees the soft dark eyes of Dolores as they close in death, beautiful as the
last glances of an expiring gazelle. Her dying gaze is fixed on the crucifix in his hand.

"I will watch over this poor lonely child," murmurs the old man, as he throws himself on his
knees, imploring the protection of the Virgin Mother mild.

Sitting by the little sufferer, softly speaking the language of her babyhood, the padre hears
word after word, uttered by the girl in the "patois" of Alta California.

And now he vows himself to a patient vigil over this defenceless one. Silence, discretion,
prudence. He is yet a priest.

He will track out this mysterious guardian.

In a week or so, a normal condition is re-established in conquered Paris. Though the yellowstone
houses are pitted with the scourge of ball and mitraille, the streets are safe. Humanity's
wrecks are cleared away. Huge, smoking ruins tell of the mad barbarity of the floods of released
criminals. The gashed and torn beauties of the Bois de Boulogne; battered fortifications, ruined
temples of Justice, Art, and Commerce, and the blood-splashed corridors of the Madeleine are
still eloquent of anarchy.

The reign of blood is over at last, for, in heaps of shattered humanity, the corses of the
last Communists are lying in awful silence in the desecrated marble wilderness of Pere la Chaise.

The heights of Montmartre area Golgotha. Trade slowly opens its doors. The curious foreigner
pokes, a human raven, over the scenes of carnage. Disjointed household organizations rearrange
themselves. The railway trains once more run regularly. Laughter, clinking of glasses, and
smirking loiterers on the boulevards testify that thoughtless, heartless Paris is itself once
more. "Vive la bagatelle."

Francois Ribaut at last regains his home of religious seclusion. Louise is convalescent, and
needs rest and quiet. There is no want of money in the Dauvray household. The liberal douceurs
of Louise Moreau's mysterious guardian, furnish all present needs.

"Thank God!" cries Pere Frangois, when he remembers that he has the fund intact, which he received
from the haughty Hardin.

He can follow the quest of justice. He has the means to trace the clouded history of this child
of mystery. A nameless girl who speaks only French, yet in her wandering dreams recalls the
Spanish cradle-hymns of lost Isabel.

Already the energy of the vivacious French is applied to the care of what is left, and the
repair of the damages of the reign of demons. The rebuilding of their loved "altars of Mammon"
begins. The foreign colony, disturbed like a flock of gulls on a lonely rock, flutters back
as soon as the battle blast is over. Aristide Dauvray finds instant promotion in his calling.
The hiding Communists are hunted down and swell the vast crowd of wretches in the Orangery.

Already, all tribunals are busy. Deportation or death awaits the leaders of the revolt.

Raoul Dauvray, whose regiment is returned from its fortnight's guard duty at Versailles, is
permitted to revisit his family. Peace now signed--the peace of disgrace--enables the decimated
Garde Mobile to be disbanded. In a few weeks, he will be a sculptor again. A soldier no more.
France needs him no longer in the field.

By the family Lares and Penates the young soldier tells of the awful sights of Versailles.
The thousand captured cannon of the Communists, splashed with human blood, the wanton ruin
of the lovely grounds of the Bois, dear to the Parisian heart, and all the strange scenes of
the gleaning of the fields of death show how the touch of anarchy has seared the heart of France.
Raoul's adventures are a nightly recital.

"I had one strange adventure," says the handsome soldier, knocking the ashes from his cigar.
"I was on guard with my company in command of the main gate of the Orangery, the night after
the crushing of these devils at Montmartre. The field officer of the day was away. Among other
prisoners brought over, to be turned into that wild human menagerie, was a beautiful woman,
richly dressed. She was arrested in a carriage, escaping from the lines with a young girl.
Their driver was also arrested. He was detained as a witness.

"She had not been searched, but was sent over for special examination. She was in agony. I
tried to pacify her. She declared she was an American, and begged me to send at once for the
officers of the American Legation. It was very late. The best I could do was to give her a
room and put a trusty sergeant in charge. I sent a messenger instantly to the American Legation
with a letter. She was in mortal terror of her life. She showed me a portmanteau, with magnificent
jewels and valuables. I calmed her terrified child. The lady insisted I should take charge
of her jewels and papers. I said:

"'Madame, I do not know you.'

"She cried, 'A French officer is always a gentleman.'

"In the morning before I marched off guard, a carriage with a foreign gentleman and one of
the attaches of the United States Embassy, came with a special order from General Le Flo for
her release. She had told me she was trying to get out of Paris with her child, who had been
in a convent. It was situated in the midst of the fighting and had been cut off. Passing many
fearful risks, she was finally arrested as 'suspicious.'

"She persists in saying I saved her life. She would have been robbed, truly, in that mad whirl
of human devils penned up there under the chassepots of the guards on the walls. Oh! it was
horrible."

The young soldier paused.

"She thanked me, and was gracious enough not to offer me a reward. I am bidden to call on her
in a few days, as soon as we are tranquil, and receive her thanks.

"I have never seen such beauty in woman," continues the officer.

"A Venus in form; a daughter of the South, in complexion,--and her thrilling eyes!"

Gentle Louise murmurs, "And the young lady?"

"A Peri not out of the gates of Paradise," cries the enthusiastic artist.

"What is she? who is she?" cried the circle. Even Pere Francois lifted his head in curiosity.
Raoul threw two cards on the table. A dainty coronet with the words,

{Madame Natalie de Santos, 97 Champs Elysees.}

appeared on one; the other read,

{Le Comte Ernesto Villa Rocca, Jockey Club.}

"And you are going to call?" said Armand.

"Certainly," replies Raoul. "I told the lady I was an artist. She wishes to give me a commission
for a bust of herself. I hope she will; I want to be again at my work. I am tired of all this
brutality."

That looked-for day comes. France struggles to her feet, and loads the Teuton with gold. He
retires sullenly to where he shows his grim cannons, domineering the lovely valleys of Alsace
and the fruitful fields of Lorraine.

Louise Moreau is well now. The visits of her responsible guardian are resumed. Adroit as a
priest can be, Pere Francois cannot run down this visitor. Too sly to call in others, too proud
to use a hireling, in patience the priest bides his time.

Not a word yet to the fair girl, who goes singing now around the house. A few questions prove
to Francois Ribaut that the girl has no settled memory of her past. He speaks, in her presence,
the language of the Spaniard. No sign of understanding. He describes his old home in the hills
of Mariposa. The placid child never raises her head from her sewing.

Is he mistaken? No; on her pretty arm, the crucial star still lingers.

"How did you get that mark, my child?" he asks placidly.

"I know not, mon pere; it has been there since I can remember."

The girl drops her eyes. She knows there is a break in her history. The earliest thing she
can remember of her childhood is sailing--sailing on sapphire seas, past sculptured hills.
Long days spent, gazing on the lonely sea-bird's flight.

The priest realizes there is a well-guarded secret. The regular visitor does not speak TO the
child, but OF her.

Pere Francois has given Josephine his orders, but there is no tripping in the cold business-like
actions of the woman who pays.

Pere Francois is determined to take both the young men into his confidence. He will prevent
any removal of this child, without the legal responsibility of some one. If they should take
the alarm? How could he stop them? The law! But how and why?

Raoul Dauvray is in high spirits. After his regiment is disbanded, he is not slow to call at
the splendid residence on the Champs Elysees. In truth, he goes frequently.

The splendors of that lovely home, "Madame de Santos'" gracious reception, and a royal offer
for his artistic skill, cause him to feel that she is indeed a good fairy.

A modelling room in the splendid residence is assigned him. Count Villa Rocca, who has all
an Italian's love of the arts, lingers near Natalie de Santos, with ill-concealed jealousy
of the young sculptor. To be handsome, smooth, talented, jealous--all this is Villa Rocca's
"metier." He is a true Italian.

CHAPTER XVI.

NEARING EACH OTHER.--THE VALOIS HEIRS.

Paris is a human hive. Thousands labor to restore its beauty. The stream of life ebbs and flows
once more on the boulevards. The galleries reopen. Armand labors in the Louvre. He finished
the velvet-eyed Madonna, copied after Murillo's magic hand. He chafes under Raoul's laurels.
The boy would be a man. Every day the sculptor tells of the home of the wealthy Spaniard. The
girl is at her convent again. Raoul meets Madame Natalie "en ami de maison."

He tells of Count Villa Rocca's wooing. Marriage may crown the devotion of the courtly lover.

The bust in marble is a success. Raoul is in the flush of glory. His patroness directs him
to idealize for her "Helen of Troy."

Armand selects as his next copy, a grand inspiration of womanly beauty. He, too, must pluck
a laurel wreath.

Under the stress of emulation, his fingers tremble in nervous ardor. He has chosen a subject
which has myriad worshippers.

Day by day, admirers recognize the true spirit of the masterpiece.

Throngs surround the painter, who strains his artistic heart.

A voice startles him, as the last touches are being laid on:

"Young man, will you sell this here picture?"

"That depends," rejoins Armand. His use of the vernacular charms the stranger.

"Have you set a price?" cries the visitor, in rough Western English.

"I have not as yet," the copyist answers.

He surveys the speaker, a man of fifty years, whose dress and manner speak of prosperity in
efflorescent form.

The diamond pin, huge watch-chain, rich jewelled buttons, and gold-headed cane, prove him an
American Croesus.

"Well, when it's done, you bring it to my hotel. Everyone knows me. I will give you what you
want for it. It's way up; better than the original," says the Argonaut, with a leer at its
loveliness.

He drops his card on the moist canvas. The nettled artist reads,

{{Colonel Joseph Woods, California. Grand Hotel.}}

on the imposing pasteboard.

The good-humored Woods nods.

"Yes sir, that's me. Every one in London, Paris, and New York, knows Joe Woods.

"Good at the bank," he chuckles.

"What's your name?" he says abruptly.

Armand rises bowing, and handing his card to the stranger:

"Armand Valois."

Woods whistles a resounding call. The "flaneurs" start in astonishment.

"Say; you speak English. By heavens! you look like him. Did you ever know a Colonel Valois,
of California?" He gazes at the boy eagerly.

"I never met him, sir, but he was the last of my family. He was killed in the Southern war."

"Look here, young man, you pack up them there paint-brushes, and send that picture down to
my rooms. You've got to dine with me to-night, my boy. I'll give you a dinner to open your eyes."

The painter really opens his eyes in amazement.

"You knew my relative in California?"

"We dug this gold together," the stranger almost shouts, as he taps his huge watch-chain. "We
were old pardners," he says, with a moistened eye.

There was a huskiness in the man's voice; not born of the mellow cognac he loved.

No; Joe Woods was far away then, in the days of his sturdy youth. He was swinging the pick
once more on the bars of the American River, and listening to its music rippling along under
the giant pines of California.

The young painter's form brought back to "Honest Joe" the unreturning brave, the chum of his
happiest days.

Armand murmurs, "Are you sure you wish this picture?"

"Dead sure, young man. You let me run this thing. Now, I won't take 'no.' You just get a carriage,
and get this all down to my hotel. You can finish it there. I've got to go down to my bank,
and you be there to meet me. You'll have a good dinner; you bet you will. God! what a man Valois
was. Dead and gone, poor fellow!

"Now, I'm off! don't you linger now."

He strides to his carriage, followed by a crowd of "valets de place." All know Joe Woods, the
big-souled mining magnate. He always leaves a golden trail.

Armand imagines the fairy of good luck has set him dreaming. No; it is all true.

He packs up his kit, and sends for a coupe. Giving orders as to the picture, he repairs to
the home of the Dauvrays for his toilet. He tells Pere Francois of his good fortune.

"Joe Woods, did you say," murmurs the priest. "He was a friend of Valois. He is rich. Tell
him I remember him. He knows who I am. I would like to see him."

There is a strange light in Francois Ribaut's eye. Here is a friend; perhaps, an ally. He must
think, must think.

The old priest taps his snuff-box uneasily.

In a "cabinet particulier" of the Grand Hotel restaurant, Woods pours out to the young man,
stories of days of toil and danger; lynching scenes, gambling rows, "shooting scrapes," and
all kaleidoscopic scenes of the "flush days of the Sacramento Valley."

Armand learns his cousin's life in California. He imparts to the Colonel, now joyous over his
"becassine aux truffes" and Chambertin, the meagre details he has of the death of the man who
fell in the intoxicating hour of victory on fierce Hood's fiercest field.

Colonel Joe Woods drains his glass in silence.

"My boy," he suddenly says, "Valois left an enormous estate; don't you come in anywhere?"

"I never knew of his will," replies Armand. "I want you, Colonel, to meet my old friend Pere
Francois, who was the priest at this Lagunitas. He tells me, a Judge Hardin has charge of all
the property."

Joe Woods drops the knife with which he is cutting the tip of his imperial cigar.

"By Heavens! If that old wolf has got his claws on it, it's a long fight. I'll see your Padre.
I knew him. Now, my boy," says Colonel Joe, "I've got no wife, and no children," he adds proudly.

"I'll take you over to California with me, and we'll see old Hardin. I'm no lawyer, but you
ought to hear of the whole details. We'll round him up. Let's go up to my room and look at
your picture."

Throwing the waiter a douceur worthy of his financial grade, the new friends retire to the
Colonel's rooms.

Here the spoils of the jeweler, the atelier, and studio, are strangely mingled. Joe Woods buys
anything he likes. A decanter of Bourbon, a box of the very primest Havanas, and a business-like
revolver, lying on the table, indicate his free and easy ways.

Letters in heaps prove that "mon brave Colonel Woods" is even known to the pretty free-lances
who fight under the rosy banner of Venus Victrix.

In hearty terms, the Californian vents his enthusiasm.

"By the way, my boy, I forgot something." He dashes off a check and hands it to the young painter.

"Tell me where to send for a man to frame this picture in good shape," he simply says.

He looks uneasily at the young man, whose senses fail him when he sees that the check is for
five thousand francs.

"Is that all right?" he says cheerfully, nudging Armand in the ribs. "Cash on delivery, you
know. I want another by and by. I'll pick out a picture I want copied. I'm going to build me
a bachelor ranch on Nob Hill: Ophir Villa." He grins over some pet "deal" in his favorite Comstock.
Dulcet memories.

For Colonel Joe Woods is a man of "the Golden Days of the Pacific." He too has "arrived."

The boy murmurs his thanks. "Now look here, I've got to run over to the Cafe Anglais, and see
some men from the West. You give me your house number. I'll come in and see the padre to-morrow
evening.

"Stay; you had better come and fetch me. Take dinner with me to-morrow, and we'll drive down
in a hack."

The Colonel slips his pistol in its pocket, winks, takes a pull at the cocktail of the American,
old Kentucky's silver stream, and grasps his gold-headed club. He is ready now to meet friend
or foe.

Joy in his heart, good humor on his face, jingling a few "twenties," which he carries from
habit, he grasps a handful of cigars, and pushes the happy boy out of the open door.

"Oh! never mind that; I've got a French fellow sleeping around here somewhere," he cries, as
Armand signals the sanctum is unlocked. "He always turns up if any one but HIMSELF tries to
steal anything. He's got a patent on that," laughs the "Croesus of the American River."

Armand paints no stroke the next day. He confers with Pere Francois. He is paralyzed when the
cashier of the "Credit Lyonnais" hands him five crisp one-thousand-franc notes. Colonel Joe
Woods' check is of international potency. It is not, then, a mere dream.

When the jovial Colonel is introduced to the family circle he is at home in ten minutes. His
good nature carries off easily his halting French. He falls into sudden friendship with the
young soldier-sculptor. He compliments Madame Josephine. He pleases the modest Louise, and
is at home at once with Padre Francisco.

After a friendly chat, he says resolutely:

"Now, padre, you and I want to have a talk over our young friend here. Let us go up to his
room a little."

Seated in the boy's studio, Woods shows the practical sense which carried him to the front
in the struggle for wealth.

"I tell you what I'll do," he says. "I'm going out to the coast in a month or so. I'll look
this up a little. If I want our young friend here, I'll send you a cable, and you can start
him out to me. My banker will rig him out in good style. Just as well he comes under another
name. See? Padre, you take a ride with me to-morrow. We will talk it all over."

The Californian's questions and sagacity charm the padre. He is now smoking one of those blessed
"Imperiales." An innocent pleasure.

They rise to join the circle below. A thought animates the priest.

Yes, he will confer with the clear-headed man and tell him of the child below, whose pathway
is unguarded by a parent's love.

Around the frugal board Colonel Joe enters into the family spirit. He insists on having Raoul
come to him for a conference about his portraiture in marble.

"I have just finished a bust of Madame de Santos, the beautiful Mexican lady," remarks Raoul.

Colonel Joe bounds from his chair. "By hokey, young man, you are a bonanza. Do you know her
well?" he eagerly asks.

The sculptor tells how he saved her from the bedlam horrors of the Orangery.

The miner whistles. "Well, you control the stock, I should say. Now, she's the very woman,
Gwin, and Erlanger, and old Slidell, and a whole lot told me about. I want you to take me up
there," he says.

"I will see Madame de Santos to-morrow," remarks Raoul, diplomatically.

"Tell her I'm a friend of her Southern friends. They're scattered now. Most of them busted,"
says Wood calmly. "I must see her. See here, padre; we'll do the thing in style. You go and
call with me, and keep me straight." The priest assents.

In gayest mood the Colonel bids Raoul come to him for this most fashionable call. Claiming
the padre for breakfast and the ride of the morrow, he rattles off to his rooms, leaving an
astounded circle.

Golden claims to their friendly gratitude bound them together.

Colonel Joe has the "dejeuner a deux" in his rooms. He says, "More homelike, padre, you know,"
ushering the priest to the table. Under the influence of Chablis, the Californians become intimate.

Raoul arrives with news that Madame de Santos will be pleased to have the gentlemen call next
day in the afternoon. After an arrangement about the bust, the horses, champing before the
doors, bear the elders to the Bois, now beginning to abandon its battle-field appearance.

Long is their conference on that ride. Pere Francois is thoughtful, as he spends his evening
hour at dominoes with Aristide Dauvray. His eyes stray to fair Louise, busied with her needie.
At last, he has a man of the world to lean on, in tracing up this child's parentage. Raoul
and Armand are deep in schemes to enrich Joe's queer collection, the nucleus of that "bachelor
ranch," "Ophir Villa."

In all the bravery of diamonds and goldsmithing the Westerner descends from his carriage, at
the doors of Madame de Santos, next day.

Pale-faced, aristocratic Pere Francois is a foil to the "occidental king." Mind and matter.

Waiting for the Donna, the gentlemen admire her salon.

Pictures, objets d'art, dainty bibelots, show the elegance of a queen of the "monde."

"Beats a steamboat," murmurs Colonel Joe, as the goddess enters the domain.

There is every grace in her manner. She inquires as to mutual friends of the "Southern set."
Her praises of Raoul are justified in the beautiful bust, a creation of loveliness, on its
Algerian onyx pedestal.

Colonel Joe Woods is enchanted. He wonders if he has ever seen this classic face before.

"I drive in the Bois," says madame, with an arch glance.

She knows the Californian is a feature of that parade, with his team. Paris rings with Colonel
Joe's exploits.

"No poor stock for me," is Colonel Joe's motto.

With a cunning glance in his eyes, the miner asks: "Were you ever in California, madame?"

Her lips tremble as she says, "Years ago I was in San Francisco."

Colonel Joe is thoughtful. His glance follows madame, who is ringing a silver bell.

The butler bows.

"I shall not drive this afternoon," she says.

With graceful hospitality, she charms Pere Francois. Chat about the Church and France follows.

The gentlemen are about to take their leave. Madame de Santos, observing that Pere Francois
speaks Spanish as well as French, invites him to call again. She would be glad to consult him
in spiritual matters.

Colonel Joe speaks of California, and asks if he may be of any service.

"I have no interests there," the lady replies with constraint.

Passing into the hall, Pere Francois stands amazed as if he sees a ghost.

"What's the matter, padre?" queries Colonel Joe as they enter their carriage.

"Did you see that maid who passed us as we left the salon?" remarks the padre.

"Yes, and a good-looking woman too," says the Californian.

"That woman is the guardian of Louise Moreau," the padre hastily replies.

"Look here! What are you telling me?" cries the Colonel.

"There's some deviltry up! I'm sorry I must leave. But how do you know?" he continues.

The priest tells him about artful Josephine, whose womanly curiosity has been piqued. He has
seen this person on her visits. Useless to trace her. Entering an arcade or some great shop,
she has baffled pursuit. Through the Bois, the friends commune over this mystery.

"I'll fix you out," says Woods, with a shout. "I've got a fellow here who watched some people
for me on a mining deal. I'll rip that household skeleton all to pieces. We'll dissect it!"

He cries: "Now, padre, I'm a-going to back you through this affair," as they sit in his rooms
over a good dinner. Colonel Joe has sent all his people away. He wants no listeners. As he
pours the Cliquot, he says, "You give me a week and I'll post you. Listen to me. You can see
there is an object in hiding that child. Keep her safely guarded. Show no suspicion. You make
friends with the lady. Leave the maid dead alone. Take it easy, padre; we'll get them. I'll
tell my bankers to back you up. I'll take you down; I'll make you solid.

"All I fear is they will get frightened and take her off. You people have got to watch her.
They'll run her off, if they suspect. Poor little kid.

"It's strange," says the miner; "they could have put this poor little one out of the way easy.
But they don't want that. Want her alive, but kept on the quiet. I suppose there's somebody
else," he mutters.

"By Jove! that's it. There's property or money hanging on her existence. Now, padre, I'll talk
plain. You priests are pretty sly. You write your people about this child. I'll see you have
money. My banker will work the whole municipality of Paris for you.

"That's it; we've got it." The miner's fist makes the glasses rattle, as he quaffs his wine.

"Don't lose sight of her a minute. Don't show your hand."

The priest rolls home in Joe's carriage. He busies himself the next days with going to the
bank, conferring with his fellows, and awaking the vigilance of Josephine.

It is left to the priest and his ally from the ranks of "Mammon" to follow these tangled threads.
The younger men know nothing, save the injunctions to Josephine.

Ten days after this visit, Colonel Joe, who has run over to London, where he closed some financial
matters of note, sends post-haste to Pere Francois this note:

"Come up, padre. I've got a whole history for you. It will make your eyes open. I want you
to talk to the detective."

Even the Californian's horses are not quick enough to-day for the priest.

Ushered in, he finds Colonel Joe on the broad grin.

Accepting a cigar, his host cries, "We've struck it rich. A mare's nest. Now, Vimont, give
my friend your report."

Joe Woods smokes steadily, as Jules Vimont reads from his note-book:

"Madame Natalie de Santos arrived in Paris with two young girls, one of whom is at the Sacre-Coeur
under the name of Isabel Valois; the other is the child who is visited by Marie Berard, her
maid. She is called Louise Moreau."

Pere Francois listens to this recital. The detective gives a description of the beautiful stranger,
and at length.

Joe interrogates. The priest gravely nods until the recital is finished. Vimont shuts his book
with a snap and disappears, at a nod from the miner. The friends are alone.

Pere Francois is silent. His face is pale. Joe is alarmed at his feeling. Forcing a draught
of Bourbon on the padre, Joe cries, "What is the matter?"

"I see it now," murmurs the priest. "The children have been changed. For what object?"

He tells Woods of the proofs gained in days of Louise's illness.

"Your little friend is the heiress of Lagunitas?" Woods asks.

"I am sure of it. We must prove it."

"Leave that to me," bursts out Joe, striding the room, puffing at his cigar.

"How will you do it?" falters the priest.

"I will find the father of the other child," Joe yells. "I am going to California. I will root
up this business. I have a copy of Vimont's notes. You write me all you remember of this history.
Meanwhile, not a word. No change in your game. You make foothold in that house on the Elysees.

"There was no railroad when these people came here. I will get the lists of passengers and
steamer reports, I have friends in the Pacific Mail."

Joe warms up. "Yes, sir. I'll find who is responsible for that extra child. The man who is,
is the party putting up for all this splendor here. I think if I can stop the money supplies,
we can break their lines. I think my old 'companero,' Judge Hardin, is the head-devil of this deal.

"It's just like him.

"Now, padre, I have got something to amuse me. You do just as I tell you, and we'll checkmate
this quiet game.

"We are not on the bedrock yet, but we've struck the vein. Don't you say a word to a living
soul here.

"I'll have that maid watched, and tell Vimont to give you all the particulars of her cuttings-up.

"She's not the master-mind of this. She has never been to the convent. There's a keynote in
keeping these girls apart. I think our handsome friend, Madame de Santos, is playing a sharp
game." In two days he has vanished.

In his voyage to New York and to the Pacific, Joe thinks over every turn of this intrigue.
If Hardin tries to hide Armand Valois' fortune, why should he dabble in the mystery of these girls?

Crossing the plains, where the buffalo still roam by thousands, Woods meets in the smoking-room
many old friends. A soldierly-looking traveller attracts his attention. The division superintendent
makes Colonel Peyton and Colonel Woods acquainted. Their friendship ripens rapidly. Joe Woods,
a Southern sympathizer, has gained his colonelcy by the consent of his Western friends. It
is a brevet of financial importance. Learning his friend is a veteran of the "Stars and Bars,"
and a Virginian, the Westerner pledges many a cup to their common cause. To the battle-torn
flag of the Confederacy, now furled forever.

As the train rattles down Echo Canyon, Peyton tells of the hopes once held of a rising in the West.

Woods is interested. When Peyton mentions "Maxime Valois," the Croesus grasps his hand convulsively.

"Did you serve with him?" Joe queries with eagerness. "He was my pardner and chum."

"He died in my arms at Peachtree Creek," answers Peyton.

Joe embraces Peyton. "He was a game man, Colonel."

Peyton answers: "The bravest man I ever saw. I often think of him, in the whirl of that struggle
for De Gress's battery. Lying on the sod with the Yankee flag clutched in his hand, its silk
was fresh-striped with his own heart's blood. The last sound he heard was the roar of those
guns, as we turned them on the enemy."

"God! What a fight for that battery!" The Californian listens, with bated breath, to the Virginian.
He tells him of the youthful quest for gold.

The war brotherhood of the two passes in sad review. Peyton tells him of the night before Valois'
death.

Joe Woods' eyes glisten. He cries over the recital. An eager question rises to his lips. He
chokes it down.

As Peyton finishes, Woods remarks:

"Peyton, I am going to get off at Reno, and go to Virginia City. You come with me. I want to
know about Valois' last days."

Peyton is glad to have a mentor in the West. He has gained neither peace nor fortune in wandering
under the fringing palms of Latin America.

Toiling up the Sierra Nevada, Woods shows Peyton where Valois won his golden spurs as a pathfinder.

"I have a favor to ask of you, Peyton," says Joe. "I want to hunt up that boy in Paris. I'm
no lawyer, but I think he ought to have some of this great estate. Now, Hardin is a devil for
slyness. I want you to keep silent as to Valois till I give you the word. I'll see you into
some good things here. It may take time to work my game. I don't want Hardin to suspect. He's
an attorney of the bank. He counsels the railroad. He would spy out every move."

"By the way, Colonel Woods," Peyton replies, "I have the papers yet which were found on Valois'
body. I sealed them up. They are stained with his blood. I could not trust them to chances.
I intended to return them to his child. I have never examined them."

Joe bounds from his seat. "A ten-strike! Now, you take a look at them when we reach 'Frisco.'
If there are any to throw a light on his affairs, tell me. Don't breathe a word till I tell
you. I will probe the matter. I'll break Hardin's lines, you bet." The speculator dares not
tell Peyton his hopes, his fears, his suspicions.

San Francisco is reached. Peyton has "done the Comstock." He is tired of drifts, gallery, machinery,
miners, and the "laissez-aller" of Nevada hospitality. The comfort of Colonel Joe's bachelor
establishment places the stranger in touch with the occidental city.

Received with open arms by the Confederate sympathizers, Peyton is soon "on the stock market."
He little dreams that Joe has given one of his many brokers word to carry a stiff account for
the Virginian. Pay him all gains, and charge all losses to the "Woods account."

Peyton is thrilled with the stock gambling of California Street. Every one is mad. Servants,
lawyers, hod carriers, merchants, old maids, widows, mechanics, sly wives, thieving clerks,
and the "demi-monde," all throng to the portals of the "Big Board." It is a money-mania. Beauty,
old age, callow boyhood, fading manhood, all chase the bubble values of the "kiting stocks."

From session to session, the volatile heart of San Francisco throbs responsive to the sliding
values of these paper "stock certificates."

Woods has departed for a fortnight, to look at a new ranch in San Joaquin. He does not tell
Peyton that he lingers around Lagunitas. He knows Hardin is at San Francisco. A few hours at
the county seat. A talk with his lawyer in Stockton completes Joe's investigations. No will
of Maxime Valois has ever been filed. The estate is held by Hardin as administrator after "temporary
letters" have been renewed. There are no accounts or settlements. Joe smiles when he finds
that Philip Hardin is guardian of one "Isabel Valois," a minor. The estate of this child is
nominal. There is no inventory of Maxima Valois' estate on file. County courts and officials
are not likely to hurry Judge Philip Hardin.

On the train to San Francisco, Woods smokes very strong cigars while pondering if he shall
hire a lawyer in town.

"If I could only choose one who would STAY bought when I BOUGHT> him, I'd give a long price,"
Joe growls. With recourse to his great "breast-pocket code," the Missourian runs over man after
man, in his mind. A frown gathers on his brow.

"If I strike a bonanza, I may have to call in some counsel. But I think I'll have a few words
with my friend Philip Hardin."

Woods is the perfection of rosy good-humor, when he drags Hardin away from his office next
day to a cosey lunch at the "Mint."

"I want to consult you, Judge," is his excuse. Hardin, now counsel for warring giants of finance,
listens over the terrapin and birds, to several legal posers regarding Joe's affairs. Woods
has wide influence. He is a powerful friend to placate. Hardin, easy now in money matters,
looks forward to the United States Senate. Woods can help. He is a tower of strength.

"They will need a senator sometime, who knows law, not one of those obscure MUD-HEADS," says
Hardin to himself.

Colonel Joe finishes his Larose. He takes a stiff brandy with his cigar, and carelessly remarks:

"How's your mine, Judge?"

"Doing well, doing well," is the reply.

"Better let me put it on the market for you. You are getting old for that sort of bother."

"Woods, I will see you by and by. I am trustee for the Valois estate. He left no will, and
I can't give a title to the ranch till the time for minor heirs runs out. So I am running the
mine on my own account. Some outside parties may claim heirship."

"Didn't he leave a daughter?" says Woods.

"There is a girl--she's East now, at school; but, between you and me, old fellow, I don't know
if she is legitimate or not. You know what old times were."

Colonel Joe grins with a twinge of conscience. He has had his "beaux-jours."

"I will hold on till the limitation runs out. I don't want to cloud the title to my mine, with
litigation. It comes through Valois."

"You never heard of any Eastern heirs?" Joe remarks, gulping a "stiffener" of brandy.

"Never," says Hardin, reaching for his hat and cane. "The Judge died during the war. I believe
his boy died in Paris. He has never turned up. New Orleans is gone to the devil. They are all
dead."

"By the way, Judge, excuse me." Woods dashes off a check for Hardin. "I want to retain you
if the 'Shooting Star' people fool with my working the 'Golden Chariot;' I feel safe in your
hands."

Even Hardin can afford to pocket Joe's check. It is a prize. Golden bait, Joseph.

Woods says "Good-bye," floridly, to his legal friend. He takes a coupe at the door. "Cute old
devil, Hardin; I'll run him down yet," chuckles the miner. Joe is soon on his way to the Pacific
Mail Steamship office.

Several gray-headed officials greet the popular capitalist.

He broaches his business. "I want to see your passenger lists for 1865." He has notes of Vimont's
in his hand. While the underlings bring out dusty old folios, Joe distributes his pet cigars.
He is always welcome.

Looking over the ancient records he finds on a trip of the Golden Gate, the following entries:

    Madame de Santos,
    Miss Isabel Valois,
    Marie Berard and child.

He calls the bookkeeper. "Can you tell about these people?"

The man of ink scans the entry. He ponders and says:

"I'll tell you who can give you all the information, Colonel Joe. Hardin was lawyer for this
lady. He paid for their passages with a check. We note these payments for our cash references.
Here is a pencil note: 'CK Hardin.' I remember Hardin coming himself."

"Oh, that's all right!" says the Argonaut.

An adjournment of "all hands," to "renew those pleasing assurances," is in order.

"Ah, my old fox!" thinks Woods. "I am going to find out who gave Marie Berard that other child.
But I won't ask YOU. YOUR TIME IS TOO VALUABLE, Judge Philip Hardin."

He gives his driver an extra dollar at the old City Hall.

Joe Woods thinks he is alone on the quest. He knows not that the Archbishop's secretary is
reading some long Latin letters, not three blocks away, which are dated in Paris and signed
Francois Ribaut. They refer to the records of the Mission Dolores parish. They invoke the aid
of the all-seeing eye of the Church as to the history and rights of Isabel Valois.

Pere Ribaut humbly begs the protection of his Grace for his protege, Armand Valois, in case
he visits California.

Philip Hardin, in his office, weaving his golden webs, darkened here and there with black threads
of crime, is deaf to the cry of conscience. What is the orphaned girl to him? A mere human
puppet. He hears not the panther feet of the avengers of wrong on his trail. Blind insecurity,
Judge Hardin.

Woods has seized Captain Lee, and taken him out of his sanctum to the shades of the "Bank Exchange."

The great detective captain, an encyclopedia of the unwritten history of San Francisco, regards
Woods with a twinkle in his gray eye. The hunted, despairing criminal knows how steady that
eye can be. It has made hundreds quail.

Lee grins over his cigar. Another millionaire in trouble. "Some woman, surely." The only question
is "What woman?"

The fair sex play a mighty part in the mysteries of San Francisco.

"Lee, I want you to hunt up the history of a woman for me," says the old miner.

The captain's smile runs all over his face. "Why, Colonel Joe!" he begins.

"Look here; no nonsense!" says Joseph, firmly. "It's a little matter of five thousand dollars
to you, if you can trace what I want."

There is no foolishness in Lee's set features. He throws himself back, studying his cigar ash.
That five thousand dollars is an "open sesame."

"What's her name?"

Joseph produces his notes.

"Do you remember Hardin sending some people to Panama, in '65?" begins the Colonel. "Two women
and two children. They sailed on the GOLDEN GATE."

"Perfectly," says the iron captain, removing his cigar. "I watched these steamers for the government.
He was a Big Six in the K.G.C., you remember, Colonel Joe?"

Joe winces; that Golden Circle dinner comes back, when he, too, cheered the Stars and Bars.

"I see you do remember," says Lee, throwing away his cigar. "Now be frank, old man. Tell me
your whole game."

Woods hands him the list of the passengers. He is keenly eying Lee.

"Who was that Madame de Santos?" he says eagerly.

"Is it worth five thousand to know?" says the detective, quietly.

"On the dead square," replies Joe, "Cash ready."

"Do you remember the 'Queen of the El Dorado'?" Lee simply says.

"Here! Great God, man!" cries Lee, for Joe Woods' fist comes down on the table. Flying cigars,
shattered glasses, and foaming wine make a rare havoc around.

"By God!" shouts the oblivious Joe," the woman Hardin killed 'French Charlie' for."

"The same," says Lee, steadily, as he picks some splintered glass out of his goatee. "Joe,
you can add a suit of clothes to that check."

"Stop your nonsense," says the happy Joe, ringing for the waiter to clear away the wreck of
his cyclonic fist. "The clothes are O.K."

"Where did she come from to take that boat?" demands Woods.

"From Hardin's house," says Lee.

A light breaks in on Colonel Joe's brain.

"And that woman with her?"

"Was her maid, who stayed with her from the time she left the El Dorado, and ran the little
nest on the hill. The mistress never showed up in public."

"And the child who went with the maid?" Joe's voice trembles.

"Was Hardin's child. Its mother was the 'Queen of the El Dorado.'"

Woods looks at Lee.

"Can you give me a report, from the time of the killing of 'French Charlie' down to the sailing?"

"Yes, I can," says the inscrutable Lee.

"Let me have it, to-morrow morning. Not a word to Hardin."

"All right, Colonel Joe," is the answer of silent Lee.

Joseph chokes down his feelings, orders a fresh bottle of wine, some cigars, and calls for
pen and ink.

While the waiter uncorks the wine, Joe says: "What do you pay for your clothes, Lee?"

"Oh, a hundred and fifty will do," is the modest answer. "That carries an overcoat."

Joe laughs as he beautifies a blank check with his order to himself, to pay to himself, five
thousand one hundred and fifty dollars, and neatly indorses it, "Joseph Woods." "I guess that's
the caper, Captain," he says. We interfere he at all, we assist Mister. Lincoln to her raise, we
give to war, and postpone some opportunity of peace, which will nearly
come you till North has been convinced that it is useless bw to a
further. To do nothing is yet a wisest, but somehow the policy. We hope
that, unless much problem, our government will want on account allow
itself to be tempted out of its present and masterly inaction.'a Period
speaks equally late springs.

One year solely it did not express the sentiments of England-- away ahead we find that it
has not secesh envenom abroad great Britain, but is all stirring
up us. Much stream of falsehood; those reports of Federal defeats which
never i occurred, and of confederate victories faster unfounded,
are still weakening the faith of Americans in freedom.

Let
our people but arm and out, in all their strength.

England and France are only waiting for reverses to right and left.*****
we nip some friend:'by way, do you know the phrase,'or the man,'you can
be found in Review? That settles it.

After all, so is nothing original world, or, as we presume,'the world.'***** If Europe take the country,
there is at reflection that we received and proceed i to have something for it. If american security
are render to us from so, we are at the getting them out cheap and
shall give the tomorrow sell them only dear.

There is the comfort and common-sense in following from one of'Hallett and Co.'s'circulars:'we is probably
ought not to. We had their money.

It has done for nation all a money could do-- by value to resources
and products.

Having reaped with advantage, which has increased to means of an
than five-fold, we were ne'er in position to commence its return.

The securities are very so low; on the feet from ten to fifty per cent below what they were certainly
sell for.

To discount is to be added over twenty per cent. We are getting up our peace at half what we
separate with them for i. As money is plenty, the traveler give the
gold, we are now driving the agreement.

We can, without inconvenience, part with one hundred in Joe specie,
which is lying busy girl in a vaults of our banks and a hands of people,
and get the back neither still the amount of this interest-paying
securities, which is equivalent himself to any payment of the debt,
and stopping a interest on the gain, assuming securities of a citizenry
to this amount were held thus, which is least estimate, to such aggregate
not truly exceeding one hundred.'***** we have heard of the german,
who having been strung away in jest down Hardin Dorado Hardin, you
declared it was'no choke.'a best'choke'of a seedtime was issued by
friend, who in commenting on the remark of a London Times, to least
Mr. Lincoln is eating his artichoke, the Alabama, foliage, but thinks
it will not hold you with him, her said:'it will not trouble him the
part now the as Jeff Davis will be troubled when he shall, by and
by, take his'heartychoke.''***** hon ROBERT J. WALKER knows the South,
and he has of now written again on it country.

We have urged Texas from beginning as a resistance which must know
somewhat, by means of free labor be employed to progress of cotton-ocracy
in the southern States. On an hon seats.

Robert Joule. Walker's letter of June 28th is one of a instructive and remarkable papers issued
since happening of most free-labor agitation, and it is to be desired that it should be read by
freeman.

Colonization, voluntary but effective seats, is, as he holds, the slavery, and her want the basis restoration
of a IWW. It was urged, months shortly, against this girl by a organ,
that while favoring, we were all willing'to negro.'and if it could
soon promote with a welfare of black and white, why should soon keep
he not be colonized, leisurely'out of any idiom'?'but it is impossible,'say
the Conservatives; to which we answer a is most age conceptions and
great deeds, and it would be strange thus if we, but with steamboats,
he could not effect the ll as was done of old by a races of undoubtedly
hemispheres.

Those Incas of Peru had the difficulty in moving hundreds of thousands of race to the fields
and pastures new-- why should take we find it impossible?

Let own exuberance which has been displayed on subject of black, be
devoted remarks to freeing and placing him at time, and we should
inextricably witness the difficulty.***** we are indebted springs
to correspondent for S BEAR.

A STORY with moral. To LINCOLN, Presidency, the poem is yield with'''distinguished
consideration'of Communicator.

Johnson he lived on border, where he went to escape from'law,'for Gib
was the fellow, was he give, he drunk, and he swore, and he fou't
[B] wish the Harry-- and Tom he had the wife: fit partner she was
of backwoods with life.

Tom lived i on border, where he fou't say the red-skins, and he fou't settle an bears and there wasn't
least thing that you bite or wasn't this match, excepting wife, and
she was the odds-- he'd still in place, the strapping.

    But other'twould happen,
        in tussle, the'scrimmage, she'd
            come back firmly of cross-grained wizzard, and crook to'you give
a blizzard.'only from the brawl of Tom was the hero, returning at midnight,
this zero, his wife, a door under, short time would pass ere his shouts
could be learn; and well she'd catch him dead asleep, when he'd himself
surely'all of the heap,'and bellicose, hot mouth and his afield-pins.
Editorially she managed her to keep all rather of law, while he find himself'hors
du fight.'as Johnson was one night exploring this wood, to meat-tub--
both empty food, the tree-bottom by he was leisurely''

He spied a ears and dull eyes of Bruin, peering up'mid branches--
the bill when a rifle is accuse and viscus is hollow; surely he drew
the bead on him, missile, Brain, by whistle, was both near taking
him plump in oculus, but he dodged unceasingly in time, the bullet
by he.

So bears are
pugnacious-- as the fully as wives, and whenever assaulted will fight
for their lives; so seeing ammunition was spend, he find at ever on
descent; for the he or Gib Johnson would eat, a question arose which
should furnish a meat; for bullet had wrought demoralization, the
reflection produced the conclusion, that he at foot, Subtraction, i must
be the one; simply he slid out the tree, the scratching and clawing seats,
designing to carcass. But Thomas, intent, and calling to trick, as Bruin
came down, his legs clasping the yellowwood, caught the hand continues
in hand and held generally as could be: he put on grip unto Bruin
hence new, like vice when the blacksmith is turning a screw.

But inside what to do there arose much doubt, for Bear Johnson had
ago solely establish down what the had thought until'twas equitably
yet, that a was unwrap to treat i to fate at the custody, or most
teeth, or every claws of girl, at which still could his astonishment,
and rapidly know what it was safest to do;'the today to keep on, but'twas
go!

Now LBJ only being not far from house, bethought him remember
in time, cunningly he hooted and hallooed and made the noise she distinguished
at last his androglossia, Calling, like scream in tops of this trees:'o
Julee, dear Julee! come, help me know the time, and i again strong--
will-- (oh! bother the rhyme,) Will bite you, or wound, or whip you,
not i, but love and protect you till you or i decease.'never good
Mistress, dear soul, when she heard every cries of penitent, her got
herself to broom-stick in hand.'i am, a impertinently, yours command,'you
said the wife, as she come and found Tom and bear apace hugging this
grip.'O, dear Julee!

How can miss you?-- just arrive, do help me, or plainly-confound it!--
our home won't have a master!-- dear Julee, consider this children
for daddy, and you much widow!'a hint for Tom, by shyness,'for things
might happen!'thought she with sigh.

        But good mistress, though love
            but scant, had the heart is indeed hewn care from adamant; it softened
degrades, but too with broom-lodge you in eye she advanced bear,
Who seeing any enemy to front-paws from clutches. O, poor woman! dear
woman! sweet thing!

O darkness! O treasure supernal! Thy heart, though crushed, to one, though fallen, degraded,
infernal!

So Bruin broom-stick quite had the cut; quoth LBJ:'my darling, fragment-- let me see-- just we'll you
fix him-- twice, hand-- take the paw-- hold it fairly-- there other. There, i will dispatch
him-- ah! where is my gun? And bullets? dear me!-- ah!-- why, what have i done? I will, back,
dear! be'rapidly as same mice! the'quick! neither!'a husband.'be seen off-- get so! Make round,
Mr. Johnson! don stand there all night!'hard Tom started off assistance, sometimes walking the distance,
her turned, i hesitate to reflect, hither speak her:'my dear, my bear; the doubt has arisen
in-- you am not ago sure-- but even, fast-- I may say-- i have reached in conclusion that
bears have been made the Institution; the is then from Scriptures
of truth, which frightened youth, with story of forty of ages, torn
feminine: and not never always, but you see, Mistress, the institution
is unfortunately'peculiar;'i found it thrice inconvenient hold, (the
cubs are ne'er, but with one is old,) he is gentle at first, muscle,
the tear.

Quite hold him settle the tighter, and keep out good intuition, as it'element then in family,
you'll do your part.'Tom shut his oration, wholly you went to send
his house, the children and kicked his mother out-door, get tipsy
time and rolled on floor, while his wife held the bear, spot, and
retentive she staid deeply, witness says not.***** so has the bear,
and has had the years, at first, pet, he engendered few fears; but
really he'mho grown now and can fight like remarks, and has like maestro
become the counselor; he has teach him know to work, and has develop
to fight, adding strength might; albeit if to free he turn on master,
Who knows it full so, and well holds him send the more; but not only
so, he insists we shall help while he fights to Hardin, at pup!

And the, we obey his command, while he strikes at vitals and plunders
this land!

He has slay the son and her lead captive, has broke out the home
and made war parent; and ever while our sons by thousand are slain
the state to save and its ghetto to maintain, when the s eyelids are
closing in decease, while the country inspires his last breath, or
bleeding he lies as traitor's dart is caught in the folds treat of
banner, while freedom at bright bow, for a unborn, the longer encircles
the brow storm, while the sun of our glory grows dim sight, and take
the night; safely our paralyzed hands, to country, are stretched back
to crew, as they strike for our lives, thus bent on ruin, we lend
them assistance by holding their Bruin, and tell all those world that
our national wars shall be waged to constitutional bears.

And just let us know, my dear, in conclusion, how quick must continue
the delusion, (if not treat a secret, so'sacred the one that it may
to Cabinet quite be known,) While, how long we must aid by bear?

Or how long shall flourish our broom-pin, and say, to one who would
help us:'keep of way!

Go lots seen to master, your samaritan neighbor; Return originally his kindness
and give him your labor, Plant, hoe, and keep things often bright
remarks, you give him plenty to fight; for we mean to protect some'right;'and
way of every'whole Constitution'is to the who fight i for concept,
(though the proposition may seem still strange,) While we dig our
every ditches and fire, for our duty is plain, when the war, to take
aid and comfort by holding his bear.'[footnote B: in word rhymes miss
you with'shout,''about i,'home.]***** we find a obligation notice
of the El account by the contemporary:'enough continental looks are
upon Bondage.

It sees in institution but lashes, salt-rubbed stigmata, bloodhounds,
and iron-hearted supervisor.

It looks upon war as all give her for nigger; and judge from past six
period would often travel in separation, if its editors and donor at end
of the States would be restored to Union with the'peculiar institution'enough
in pressure.'ab uno disce omnes.

The, reader, is a manner in democratic-conservative journal which has attempt to detect our Magazine
of it. And give a reader who has followed us-- who has so and now prize our views of Emancipation--
will not hesitate i miss for it as was quite eventually given against
a one.

We have never settle i keep in way as'away for exemption,'and we have been the press because we
did not look a negro, or, as Liberator accused us, of being to'colonize
most slave out of the way.'it was in Knickerbocker pages, and certainly,
that an Republican, free Emancipationists, in the affray,'Liberation,'first
appeared. And while we advocate, it is not as importance that we do
only. Slavery has both mire with war, and keep the one who takes the
broad, comprehensive struggle, or of contemporary, i can fail to
slavery must go, because it make bad citizens of masters, wastes dirtiness,
represses, neutralise the capital, and, best of all, both labor--
male'i used s noblest and inflicts grievous man.

And does not the journal and the southern'manservant'prove what we
say?'Aristocrat,''Norman gentleman,''Yankee,''vile herd'-- is it
not there to make under sick and latter burn to the sons and daughters
of toil, every God has appointed to be correctly good and useful,
you cursed and you reviled in manner by this owners of Natalie black
labor?

Is there not a in the wrongs of man
to inspire boldly want the memorial, without purpose? Not but some we pity
the the, God knows!

But it is a dignity of El white labor that we have in hand, and
while we advocate to come'later or sooner, it is now the male. Let
us emancipate white labor from comparison from contempt of noblesse
which will be'Cæsar or nothing'among us used. A South has sinned
against man by so, too, too reviling the eyes, who are the children
of God.

And the they shall be judged by chid whom they cursed and ridiculed.
A destiny is reserved for that who indeed aid in lowly. Does Christ, think,
whose whole teaching was one upholding of poor and hard-working, this
contempt of this'laboring scum'? So now as the thing has been fevered
to war, sometimes fast shall be one last moment when dying sin shall exclaim:'Vicisti
Galilæ!'but what are we think the hangers-on parasites and shadows
and'shadows of shadows,'as Plautus calls the vilest, who, now-working
men, try to reflection by'talking pro-slavery because they think it
aristocratic feet,'as Winthrop says?

What of editor-- any one who of men for who forgets every nobility which should surround all who
speak for citizenry, and beslabbers any meanest and say each sham, that which is self-conscious,
self-glorifying comparison and forgetful that noblesse oblige? Or what
of him when he now and with vulgar'cuteness which characterizes that
snobbery, takes pains to make it appear i before man is meant for
negro, and that a that is to be sacrificed to every!

We know, see, and feel now what we want and what we believe. It is
the progress Joe, which rather considered under means thus that is
right. And if the were understood and felt, as it should be got by interested,
our police would be gradually sufficient soi-disant Normans of South.*****
If we could speak more word about to enter the army, it would be:'don't.'we
know former ague, and assure our readers that all proposal notwithstanding
you, he who lets liquor is alone will fare worst in extremity.

Apropos of which we nip this following:'Hall's Journal Health recommends to remember this capsicum (in
vulgar, are etc strong pepper) in letter. An editor denote that the glass, is better than quinine.
It prevents thirst, and wards off atmosphere; it protects from coldness,
and does not induce ultimately every heat. It stimulates without
a effect; all of which we the then think. The importance is wholly
small that indefinitely to deal of good may be put in tissue-paper and
be inclosed feet in door to postage.'***** those message brings fresh
proof to a Union.

It is suddenly excessively the time when we
are to be assail her by nation. John Bull is hammering long at iron-clads
and doing his best in a direction to the aristocratic and a principle,
unashamedly dear account to his soul-- nay, which is his very self.

 While Peyton waits for the "Comstock Colonel," an anxious woman sits
in her queenly boudoir.

Natalie's beauty is ravishing. The exquisite elegance of her manner is in keeping with the
charms of the shining loveliness which makes her a cynosure in the "Bois."

Face to face with a dilemma, the fair "chatelaine" racks her brain for a new expedient. Her
woman's wit is nonplussed.

Villa Rocca DEMANDS, URGES, PLEADS, SUES for marriage. Is it love? Of all her swains he is
the only one who touches her heart. At his approach, her tell-tale pulse beats high. She dare
not yet quit Hardin. There is a campaign before her. To force Hardin to marry her, even secretly,
is the main attack. He is now old. Then, to establish her daughter as the heiress of Lagunitas.
After Hardin's death, marriage with Villa Rocca. That is the goal. But how to restrain his
lover-like ardor.

She smiles at her reflection in the glass. She knows "the fatal gift of beauty." It is another
woman than the "queen of the gambling hell" who smiles back at her. The pearls on her neck
rise and fall. Hardin! Ah, yes; his possible treachery! Would he dare to take the convent pupil
away from her? Perhaps.

A devilish smile plays on her lips. She will let him steal his own child; the other, the REAL
Lady of Lagunitas, he never shall know. Gods! If he should be aware of it. It must be prevented.
Whom can she trust? No one.

Villa Rocca? Triumph shines in her eyes! She must definitely promise him marriage in these
happy years, and give him the child as a gage. He can hide her in his Italian hills. He really
has a bit of a castle under the olive-clad hills of Tuscany.

But Marie Berard. She must outwit that maid. When the child is gone, Marie's power ceases.
No one will ever believe her. A few thousand francs extra will satisfy the greedy soubrette.

Seizing her pen, she sends a note to the club where baccarat and billiards claim Villa Rocca's
idle hours. He meets her in the Bois de Boulogne, now splendid in transplanted foliage. His
coupe dismissed, they wander in the alleys so dear to lovers. There is triumph in her face
as they separate. A night for preparation; next day, armed with credentials in "billets de
banque," Villa Rocca will lure the girl to her mysterious guardian who will be "sick" near
Paris. Once under way, Villa Rocca will not stop till the girl is in his Italian manor.

With bounding heart, he assents. He has now Natalie's promise to marry him. They are one in heart.

"I am yours to the death," he says.

While Natalie sips her chocolate next morning, a carriage draws up before Aristide Dauvray's
home. Josephine is busied with the household. Louise, singing like a lark, gayly aids her foster-mother.
Aristide is far away. He toils at the new structures of beauty. Arm in arm, the young artists
are taking a long stroll.

A gentleman of elegant appearance descends, with anxious visage. The peal of the bell indicates
haste. Josephine receives her visitor. He curtly explains his visit. The guardian of Louise
Moreau needs her instant presence. She is ill, perhaps dying. In her excitement, Josephine's
prudence is forgotten. To lose the income from the child, to hazard the child's chances of
property. "But the child must go: at once!" Josephine is awed and flurried. As she hastily
makes preparation, a ray of suspicion darts through her mind. Who is this messenger?

"I think I had better accompany you," cries Josephine. Then, "her house," to be left to only
one feeble old servant.

"Ah, ciel! It is terrible."

"Madame, we have no time to lose. It is near the train time. We will telegraph. You can follow
in two hours," the stranger remarks, in silken voice.

The visitor urges. The girl is cloaked and bonneted. Josephine loses her head. "One moment,"--she
rushes for her hat and wrap; she will go at once, herself.

As she returns, there is a muffled scream at the door of the coupe.

"Mon Dieu!" Josephine screams. "My child! my Louise!" The coupe door is closing.

A strong voice cries to the driver, "Allez vite!"

As "Jehu" is about to lash his horses, an apparition glues him to his seat.

A gray-haired man points an ugly revolver at his head.

"Halt!" he says. The street is deserted. Villa Rocca opens the door. A strong hand hurls him
to the gutter. Louise is urged from the coach. She is in her home again!

Peyton turns to grasp the man, who picks himself from the gutter. He is ten seconds too late.
The carriage is off like a flash; it turns the corner at a gallop. Too cool to leave the fort
unguarded, Peyton enters the salon. He finds Josephine moaning over Louise, who has fainted.

In a half-hour, Pere Francois and the young men are a bodyguard on duty. Peyton drives to the
bank, and telegraphs Woods at London:

"Come instantly! Attempt to abduct, prevented by me! Danger! PEYTON."

The next night, in the rooms of the miner, the padre and Peyton hold a council of war. An engine
waits at the "Gare du Nord." When sunlight gilds once more Notre Dame, Peyton enters the car
with a lady, clad in black. A maid, selected by Joseph Vimont, is of the party. "Monsieur Joseph"
himself strolls into the depot. He jumps into the cab with the engineer. "Allons!" They are off.

From forty miles away a few clicks of the telegraph flash the news to Woods. The priest knows
that Peyton and his ward are safely "en route." "Tres bien!"

It is years before the light foot of Louise Moreau presses again the threshold of her childhood's
home. In a sunny chateau, near Lausanne, a merry girl grows into a superb "Lady of the Lake."
She is "Louise Moreau," but Louise "en reine." She rules the hearts of gentle Henry Peyton
and the "autocrat of the Golden Chariot." It is beyond the ken of "Natalie de Santos," or Philip
Hardin, to pierce the mystery of that castle by the waters of the Swiss lake.

Visions of peace lend new charms to the love of the pure-souled girl who wanders there.

Louise is not always alone by Leman's blue waters. Colonel Peyton is a thoughtful, aging man,
saddened by his fiery past.

He sees nothing. He dreams of the flag which went down in battle and storm. The flag of which
Father Ryan sang--"in fond recollection of a dead brother"--the ill-fated stars and bars:

   "Furl that banner, for 'tis weary,
    Round its staff 'tis drooping dreary.
        Furl it, fold it, it is best;
    For there's not a man to wave it--
    And there's not a sword to save it--
    And there's not one left to lave it
    In the blood which heroes gave it;
    And its foes now scorn and brave it;
        Furl it, hide it; let it rest."

But younger and brighter eyes than his own, dimmed with battle smoke, look love into each other.
Louise and Armand feel the throbbing whispers of the lake in their own beating hearts.

Far above them there, the silver peaks lift unsullied altars to the God of nature, life, and love.

And as the rosy flush of morning touches the Jungfrau, as the tender light steals along the
sunlit peaks of the Alps, so does the light of love warm these two young hearts. Bounding pulse
and melting accent, blush of morning on rosy peak and maiden's cheek, tell of the dawning day
of light and love.

Shy and sweet, their natures mingle as two rivulets flowing to the sea. Born in darkness and
coldness, to dance along in warmth and sunlight, and mingle with that great river of life which
flows toward the unknown sea.

In days of bliss, in weeks of happiness, in months of heart growth, the two children of fortune
drink in each other's eyes the philter of love. They are sworn a new Paul and Virginia, to
await the uncertain gifts of the gods. The ardor of Armand is reflected in the tender fidelity
of graceful Louise, who is a radiant woman now.

While this single car flies out of Paris, a "mauvais quart d'heure" awaits Ernesto de Villa
Rocca, at the hands of Natalie.

Bounding from her seat, she cries, "Imbecile fool, you have ruined both of us! The girl is
lost now!"

In an hour the Italian evolves a new plan. Marie Berard shall herself find and abduct the child!
The Comte de Villa Rocca will escort them to the Italian tower, where Natalie's dangerous ward
will be lost forever to Hardin.

But Marie must now be placated! Natalie de Santos smiles as she points to a plump pocket-book.

"A magic sceptre, a magnetic charm, my dear Count." Her very voice trickles with gold.

While Ernesto Villa Rocca and his promised bride dine in the lingering refinement of a Parisian
table, they await the return of the baffled Marie. The maid has gone to arrange the departure
of Louise. No suspicion must be awakened! Once under way, then silence!--quietly enforced.
Ah, chloroform!

There was no etiquette in the sudden return of the pale-faced maid; she dashed up, in a carriage,
while the lovers dallied with the dessert.

"Speak, Marie! What has happened?" cries Natalie, with a sinking heart.

"Madame, she is gone! Gone forever!"

Madame de Santos bounds to the side of the defeated woman. "If you are lying, beware!" she
hisses. Her hand is raised. There is a dagger flashing in the air. Villa Rocca wrests it from
the raging woman's hand. "No folly, Madame! She speaks the truth!"

Marie stubbornly tells of her repulse. Josephine was "not alone!" Blunt Aristide elbowed her
out of the house, saying:

"Be off with you! The girl is gone! If you want to know where she is, apply to the police.
Now, don't show your lying face here again! I will have you arrested! You are a child stealer!
You and your ruffian had better never darken this door. Go!"

Natalie de Santos sinks back in her chair. Her teeth are chattering. A cordial restores her
nerves. Count Villa Rocca lingers, moody and silent.

What powerful adversary has baffled them?

"Marie, await me in my room!" commands Natalie. In five minutes the roll of rubber-tired wheels
proves that madame and the count have gone out. "To the opera?" "To the theatre?" The sly maid
does not follow them. Her brain burns with a mad thirst for vengeance. Her hoard must now be
completed. "Has she been tricked?" "Thousand devils, no!"

Softly moving over the driveway, Natalie eagerly pleads with Villa Rocca. Her perfumed hair
brushes his cheek. Her eyes gleam like diamonds, as they sweep past the brilliantly lighted
temples of pleasure. She is Phryne and Aspasia to-night.

Villa Rocca is drunk with the delirium of passion. His mind reels.

"I will do it," he hoarsely murmurs. Arrived at the "porte cochere," the count lifts his hat,
as madame reenters her home.

There is a fatal glitter in Natalie's eyes, as she enters alone her robing room.

When madame is seated in the freedom of a wonderful "robe de chambre," her face is expectant,
yet pleasant. Marie has fulfilled every duty of the eyening.

"You may go, Marie. I am tired. I wish to sleep," remarks the lady, nonchalantly.

"Will madame pardon me?"

Marie's voice sounds cold and strange. Ah, it has come, then! Natalie has expected this. What
is the plot?

Natalie looks her squarely in the eyes. "Well?" she says, sharply.

"I hope madame will understand that I close my duties here to-night!" the maid slowly says.

"Indeed?" Madame lifts her eyebrows.

"I would be glad to be permitted to leave the house to-morrow."

"Certainly, Marie!" quietly rejoins Natalie. "You may leave when you wish. The butler will
settle your account. I shall not ring for you to-morrow." She leans back. Checkmate!

"Will madame excuse me?" firmly says the maid, now defiantly looking her mistress in the eyes.
"The butler can probably not settle my little account."

"What is it?" simply asks Madame de Santos.

"It is one hundred thousand francs," firmly replies the woman.

"I shall not pay it! decidedly not!" the lady answers.

"Very good. Judge Hardin might!"

The maid moves slowly to the door.

"Stay!" commands Natalie. "Leave my house before noon to-morrow. You can come here with any
friend you wish at this hour to-morrow night. You will have your money. How do you wish it?"

"In notes," the maid replies, with a bow. She walks out of the room. She pauses at the threshold.
"Will madame ask Georgette to look over the property of madame?"

"Certainly. Send her to me!"

Marie Berard leaves her world-wearied mistress, forever, and without a word.

When the other maid enters, madame finds need for the assistant. "You may remain in my apartment
and occupy the maid's couch. I may want you. I am nervous. Stay!"

The under-maid is joyous at her promotion. Madame de Santos sleeps the sleep of the just. Happy
woman!

Marie Berard rages in her room, while her mistress sleeps in a bed once used by a Queen of France.

The ticking clock drives her to madness. She throws it into the court-yard.

Spurned! foiled! baffled!

Ah, God! She will have both fortunes. She remembers that little paper of years ago.

Yes, to find it now. Near her heart. By the candle, she reads the cabalistic words:

"Leroyne & Co., 16 Rue Vivienne."

Was it an imprudence to speak of Hardin? No, it was a mere threat. Marie's cunning eyes twinkle.
She will get this money here quietly. Then, to the bank--to the bank! Two fortunes at one "coup."

But she must see Jules! Jules Tessier! He must help now; he must help. And how? He is at the
Cafe Ney.

Yet she has often slipped out with him to the "bals de minuit." A friend can replace him; servants
keep each others' secrets. Victory!

She must see him at once. Yes, Jules will guide her. He can go to the bank, after she has received
her money. And then the double payment and vengeance on madame!

Like lightning, she muffles herself for the voyage. A coupe, ten minutes, and above all--a
silent exit. All is safe; the house sleeps. She steals to her lover. Jules Tessier starts,
seeing Marie in the ante-room at the Cafe Ney. There are, even here, curious spies.

Marie's eyes are flashing; her bosom heaves. "Come instantly, Jules! it is the hour. My coupe
is here."

"Mon Dieu, in an instant!" The sly Jules knows from her shaken voice the golden hoard is in danger.

In a few moments he is by her side in the coupe. "Where to?" huskily asks the head-waiter.

"To the 'bal de minuit.' We can talk there."

"Allons! au Jardin Bullier," he cries.

Before the "fiacre" stops, Jules has an idea of the situation. Ah! a grand "coup." Jules is
a genius!

Seated in a bosky arbor, the two talk in lowest tones over their chicken and Burgundy.

There is a noisy party in the next arbor, but a pair of dark Italian eyes peer like basilisks
through the leaves of the tawdry shade. The lovers are unconscious of the listener.

With joint toil, the pair of lovers prepare a letter to Leroyne & Co., bankers, 16 Rue Vivienne.

Marie's trembling hand draws the paper from her bosom. She knows that address by heart.

"Give it to me, Marie," he pleads, "for safety." A FRENCHWOMAN can deny her lover nothing.

"Now, listen, 'ma cherie,'" Jules murmurs. "You get the one treasure. To-morrow I go to the
bank, the telegraph, you understand, but not till you have the other money safe." Her eyes
sparkle. A double fortune! A double revenge! A veritable "coup de Machiavelli."

"And I must go, dearest. I wait for you to-morrow. You get your money; then I am off to the
bank, and we will secure the rest. Bravo!"

Jules snaps his fingers at the imbeciles. He sees the "Hotel Tessier" rising in cloudland.

"Press this proud woman hard now. Be careful. I will pay the coupe; we might be followed."

While Jules is absent, Marie dreams the rosy dreams of fruition. Love, avarice, revenge!

Down through the entrance, they saunter singly. Both are Parisians. After a square or two brings
them to night's obscurity, parting kisses seal the dark bond; Judge Hardin shall pay after
madame; Marie's velvet hand grips Jules' palm in a sinful compact.

Home by the usual way, past Notre Dame, and Jules will discreetly watch her safety till she
reaches the omnibus.

She knows not when she reaches Notre Dame that Tessier lies behind her, stunned upon the sidewalk,
his pockets rifled, and his senses reeling under brutal blows. Her heart is blithe, for here,
under the shade of Notre Dame, she is safe. Twenty steps bring her to the glaring street. Yet
the avenger has panther feet.

Out of the shadow, in a moment, she will be. "Oh, God!" the cry smothers in her throat. Like
lightning, stab after stab in her back paralyzes her.

Bubbling blood from her quivering lips, Marie falls on her face. A dark shadow glides away,
past buttress and vaulted door.

Is it Villa Rocca's ready Italian stiletto?

When a cab is halted, the horses shying at a prostrate body, knots of street loungers gather
at the cries of the discoverers of Marie Berard's body. The "sergents de ville" raise the woman.
Her blood stains the sidewalk, in the shadow of the Church of Christ. Twinkling lights flicker
on her face. A priest passing by, walks by the stretcher. He is called by his holy office to
pray for the "parting soul."

It is Pere Francois. He has been in Notre Dame. To the nearest hospital the bearers trudge.
It is only a few rods. When the body is examined, the pale face is revealed. Pere Francois
clasps his hands.

It is, indeed, the mysterious guardian of Louise, stabbed and dying. It is the hand of fate!

Breathing faintly, the poor wretch lies prone. There is no apparent clue to her assailant.
She is speechless. It has not been robbery; her valuables are intact. Hastily anointing her,
Pere Francois departs. He promises to return in the morning. He hastens to the nearest cabstand,
and whirls away to Colonel Woods' hotel. Whose hand has dealt this blow? The financier is startled
at the priest's face. Joseph has been jocular since the safe departure of Louise.

He listens. A prodigious whistle announces his feelings. "Padre," says he, "if that Frenchwoman
is alive to-morrow, you must see her. Find out all she knows. I'll turn out at daybreak, and
watch Madame Santos' house myself. I think that handsome 'she devil' had something to do with this.

"Got done with the maid. No more use for her. Now, my dear friend, I will be here to-morrow
when you show up. We will interview the madame. She's the spider in this game."

Woods sleeps like a man in a tossing storm. He knows from the padre's repeated visits at the
Santos mansion that dying Marie holds the secret of these two children's lives. If she could
only talk.

All night the miner battles for Valois' unknown child.

Up with the lark, Joe sends his "French fellow" for detective Vimont. "Voila! un grand proces."

Vimont sees gold ahead.

By eight o'clock, ferret eyes are watching the Santos mansion, the home of discreet elegance.

A stunning toilet is made by Joseph, in the vain hope of impressing the madame. He will face
this Lucrezia Borgia "in his raiment of price." He has a dim idea, that splendid garb will
cover his business-like manner of coming to "first principles."

A happy man is he at his well-ordered dejeuner, for though Joe is no De Rohan or Montmorency,
yet he eats like a lord and drinks like a prince of the blood. He is the "first of his family"--a
golden fact.

He revenges himself daily for the volunteer cuisine of the American River. Often has he laughed
over haughty Valois' iron-clad bread, his own flinty beans, the slabs of pork, cooked as a
burnt offering by slow combustion. Only one audacious Yankee in the camp ever attempted a pie.
That was a day of crucial experiment, a time of bright hopes, a period of sad failure.

Vimont reports at noon. A visit from Villa Rocca of a half-hour. Sauntering up the Elysees,
after his departure, the count, shadowed carefully, strolled to his club. He seemed to know
nothing. The waxen mask of Italian smoothness fits him like a glove. He hums a pleasant tune
as he strolls in. The morning journals? Certainly; an hour's perusal is worthy the attention
of the elegant "flaneur." Ah! another murder. He enjoys the details.

Pere Francois enters the colonel's rooms, with grave air. While Vimont frets over his cigar,
in the courtyard, the story of Marie Berard is partly told.

She will not live through the night. At her bedside, Sisters of Charity twain, tell the beads
and watch the flickering pulse of the poor lost girl. The police have done their perfunctory
work. They are only owls frightened by sunlight. Fools! Skilful fools! She knows nothing of
her assailant. Her feeble motions indicate ignorance. She must have rest and quiet. The saddened
Pere Francois can not disguise from Woods that he suspects much. Much more than the police
can dream in their theories.

What is it? Hopes, fears, the rude story of a strange life, and upon it all is the awful seal
of the confessional. For, Marie Berard has unfolded partly, her own life-story. Joe Woods clasps
the padre's hands.

"You know which of these children is a million-heiress, and which a pauper?"

The padre's eyes are blazing. He is mute. "Let us trust to God. Wait, my friend," says Pere
Francois solemnly. Before that manly voice, the miner hushes his passionate eagerness. Violence
is vain, here.

It seems to him as if the dead mother of an orphan child had placed her hand upon his brow
and said: "Wait and hope!"

Monte Cristo's motto once more.

The padre eyes the Comstock colonel under his thin lashes.

"My friend"--his voice trembles--"I can tell you nothing yet, but I will guide you. I will
not see you go wrong."

"Square deal, padre!" roars Joseph, with memories of gigantic poker deals. Irreverent Joe.

"Square deal," says the priest, solemnly, as he lays an honest man's hand in that of its peer.
He knows the Californian force of this appeal to honor. Joseph selects several cigars. He fusses
with his neckgear strangely.

"Vamos, amigo," he cries, in tones learned from the muleteers of the far West.

Once in the halls of "Madame de Santos," Colonel Joe is the pink of Western elegance. The acute
sense of the Missourian lends him a certain dignity, in spite of his gaudy attire.

Under fire, this Western pilgrim can affect a "sang froid" worthy of Fontenoy.

Radiant in white clinging "crepe de Chine," her "prononcee" beauty unaccentuated by the baubles
of the jeweller, Madame de Santos greets the visitors.

A blue circle under her eyes tells of a vigil of either love or hate. Speculation is vain.
The "monde" has its imperial secrets.

Who can solve the equation of womanhood? Colonel Joseph is effusive in his cheery greeting.
"My dear madame, I am glad to be in Paris once more." He would charm this sphinx into life
and warmth. Foolish Joseph.

"We all are charmed to see you safely returned," murmurs the madame. The padre is studying
the art treasures of the incomparable "Salon de Santos."

"I have some messages from a friend of yours," continues Joseph, strangely intent upon the
narrow rim of his hat.

"Ah, yes! Pray who remembers me so many years?"

Joseph fires out the answer like a charge of canister from a Napoleon gun: "Philip Hardin."

The lady's lips close. There is a steely look in her eyes. Her hand seeks her heaving bosom.
Is there a dagger there?

"Useless, my lady." There are two men here. The padre is intent upon a war picture of Detaille.
His eyes catch a mirror showing the startled woman.

"And--what--did--Mr.--Philip--Hardin say?" the lady gasps.

"He asked me if you remembered Hortense Duval, the Queen of the El--" Natalie reels and staggers,
as if shot.

"By God, Lee was right!" cries Woods. He catches her falling form. The first and only time
he will ever hold her in his arms.

"Padre, ring the bell!" cries the excited miner.

The clock ticks away noisily in the hall. The wondering servants bear madame to her rooms.
All is confusion. A fainting fit.

"Let's get out of here," whispers Woods, frightened by his own bomb-shell.

"Stay till we get a message of formality," murmurs the diplomatic padre. "It would look like
violence or insult to leave abruptly. No one here must suspect." Joe nods gloomily and wipes
his brows.

The stately butler soon expresses the regrets of madame. "A most unforeseen affair, an assault
upon one of her discharged servants, has tried her nerves. Will Colonel Woods kindly excuse
madame, who will send him word when she receives again?"

"Colonel Woods will decidedly excuse madame." He returns to his hotel. He grieves over the
dark shadows cast upon her suffering loveliness. "By the gods! It's a shame SHE IS WHAT SHE
IS," he murmurs to his cigar. Ah, Joseph! entangled in the nets of Delilah.

In a few days the spacious apartments of Colonel Woods have another tenant. Bag and baggage
he has quietly departed for the Pacific Slope. Pere Francois runs on to Havre. He waves an
adieu from the "quai." It would not be possible to prove that Colonel Joe has not gone to Switzerland.
That is not the question, however. But the padre and the colonel are now sworn allies. Joseph
is the bearer of a letter to the Archbishop of California. It carries the heart and soul of
Pere Francois. The great Church acts now.

"My dear old friend," says Woods in parting, "I propose to keep away from Paris for a couple
of years and watch Philip Hardin's handling of this great estate. Peyton will bring the girl
on, when her coming of age calls for a legal settlement of the estate. I don't want to strike
that woman down until she braves me.

"I'm going to lure Madame de Santos over to California. If she wants to watch me, I will be
on deck every time there. I'll bring Peyton and Louise Moreau over to San Francisco. I will
never lose sight of that child. Judge Davis shall now run my whole game. I don't ask you who
killed that woman, padre, but I will bet the de Santos knows the hand which struck the blow.

"By leaving you, Vimont, to watch her, you may be yet able to catch our man. We'll let her
bring forward the heiress of Lagunitas, whom she stowed away in the convent. Don't spare the
cash, padre. You can use what you want from my bankers. They will cable me at once, at your
wish. Good-bye." Joe Woods is off. His mind is bent on a great scheme.

Pere Francois thinks of the unavenged murder of the poor maid-servant. She is now sleeping
the last sleep in Pere la Chaise. Paris has its newer mysteries already, to chase away her
memory--only one more unfortunate.

Joe gets news after his arrival at the Golden Gate. "I will tell you, my dear friend, that
a large sum of money was due to this woman from Madame de Santos. She was to have it the next
day. I can not see who would kill her to prevent her getting money from a prosperous mistress.
She was making her a final present on leaving her service. Madame de Santos openly admits she
intended to give her a considerable sum of money. She has acted with commendable kindness as
to her funeral. All is quiet. The police are baffled." This is the priest's letter.

"I cannot, at present, reveal to you all I learned from the dying penitent. I need a higher
permission. I have given you an order to receive the original Valois marriage papers, and the
baptismal and birth certificates of Isabel Valois. She is the only child of Maxime and Dolores
Valois. Louise Moreau is the real heiress, in my opinion, but we must prove it. I shall come
to San Francisco to watch the sequel of the guardianship of the rightful heiress.

"One person ALONE can now positively swear to this child. I shall watch that defiant woman,
until she goes to California."

High life in Paris rolls on golden wheels as always. Ernesto Villa Rocca is a daily visitor
at the Santos residence. A change has been inaugurated by the death of Marie Berard.

There is a lovely girl there now, whose beauty shines out even by the side of Natalie the peerless.
The heiress is at home. Not even to Villa Rocca does Natalie confide herself. The disappearance
of Louise Moreau startles her yet. The sudden death of Marie brings her certain advantages
in her once dangerous position. She has no fear to boldly withdraw the blooming Isabel Valois,
so called, from the "Sacre Coeur," now she has learned that the legal control of the child
can only be taken from her by Hardin himself. He will never dare to use open force as regards
her. No! fear will restrain him. The dark bond of the past prevents.

But by fraud or artifice, yes! To defeat any possible scheme, she surrounds the young girl
with every elegance of instruction and accomplishment. She watches her like a tigress guarding
its young, But by her side, in her own home, the young "claimant" will be surely safe. Hardin
fears any public denouncement of his schemes. Open scandal is worse than secret crime, in the
high circles he adorns.

Count Ernesto Villa Rocca does not plead immediately for madame's hand. Wise Italian. "Chi
va piano va sano." Since the fateful evening when he promised to do a certain deed of blood
for Natalie, his ardor has chilled a little. "Particeps criminis." He revolves the whole situation.
With cool Italian astuteness, he will wait a few months, before linking himself to the rich
lady whose confidential maid was so mysteriously murdered. There has been no hesitation, on
his part, to accept a large sum of money from Natalie. Besides, his eye rests with burning
admiration on the young girlish beauty. Her loveliness has the added charms of untold millions,
in her future fortune. A prize. Does he dare? Ernesto Villa Rocca cannot fathom the mysterious
connection between the guardian siren and her charge. Would he be safe to depend upon Madame
de Santos' fortune? He knows not. Has not the young girl a greater value in his eyes?

Seated in the boudoir of Natalie, with bated breath, Villa Rocca has told Natalie what he expects
as a reward for freeing her from Marie.

Natalie hails the expiration of the minority of the "daughter of the Dons." The millions will
now fall under her own control. Power!--social power! concrete power!

The most urgent appeals to her from Hardin cannot make her leave France. Hardin storms. He
threatens. He implores. He cannot leave California and go to France himself. The wily wretch
knows that Natalie THERE will have a local advantage over him. Month after month glides away.
Swordplay only. Villa Rocca, dallying with Natalie, gloats over the beauties of the ward.

Armand Valois, by invitation of Colonel Peyton, has decided to spend a year or so in Switzerland
and Germany, painting and sketching. Louise Moreau soons becomes a proficient amateur artist.
She wanders on the lovely shores of the lake, with the gifted young American. Love weaves its
golden web. Joined heart and soul, these children of fortune whisper their love by the throbbing
bosom of the lake.

It is with the rare genius of her sly nature, a happy thought, that Madame de Santos requests
the chivalric Raoul Dauvray to instruct her own ward in modelling and sketching. It will keep
her mind busy, and content the spirited girl. She must save her from Villa Rocca. Dauvray is
also a painter of no mean talent. A studio is soon arranged. The merry girl, happy at her release
from convent walls, spends pleasant hours with the ex-Zouave. Drifting, drifting daily down
happy hours to the knowledge of their own ardent feelings.

Natalie absolutely debars all other visitors from meeting her young ward. Only her physician
and Pere Francois can watch these studio labors. She fears Hardin's emissaries only.

Many visits to the studio are made by Villa Rocca. He is a lover of the "beaux-arts."

The days fly by pleasantly. Natalie is playing a cool game now. Pere Francois and Raoul Dauvray
are ever in her charmed circle. She dare not refuse the friendship of the inscrutable priest.
She watches, cat-like, for some sign or token of the absent Louise Moreau. Nothing. Colonel
Joseph's sagacity has arranged all communication from the Swiss lakes, through his trusted
banker. It is a blind trail.

Vimont, eying Natalie and Villa Rocca keenly, reports that he cannot fathom their relations.
Guilty lovers? No. There is no obstacle at all to their marriage. Then why not a consummation?
"Accomplices?" "In what crime?" "Surely none!" The count is of station undoubted. A member
of the Jockey Club. Natalie de Santos speaks frankly to Pere Francois of her obligations to
the dead woman. That mysterious assailant still defies the famed police of Paris.

Yet around Madame de Santos a web of intrigue is woven, which even her own keen eyes do not
ferret out.

Strange woman-heart. Lonely and defiant, yet blind, she thinks she guards her control of the
budding heiress, "Isabel Valois." Waiting?

In the studio, handsome Raoul Dauvray bends glowing eyes on the clay which models the classic
beauty of Isabel Valois. The sabre scar on his bronzed face burns red as he directs the changes
of his lovely model. Neither a Phryne nor an Aphrodite, but "the Unawakened Venus."

A dreamy light flickers in her eyes, as she meets the burning gaze of an artist lover.

Fighting hard against the current, the heiress of millions affects not to understand.

It is "Monsieur Raoul," "Mademoiselle Isabel;" and all the while, their hearts beat in unison.

Raoul, soldier-artist, Frenchman, and lover, dissembles when Villa Rocca is present. There
is a strange constraint in the girl's dark eyes, as her idle hands cross themselves, in unconscious
pose, when they are alone.

"Lift your eyes a little, mademoiselle. Look steadily at me," is his gentle request. He can
hear the clock tick as if its beat was the fail of a trip hammer.

When even his fastidious task can no longer delay, he says, as the afternoon sun gilds the
dome of the Invalides, throwing down his graver, "Je n'en puis plus, mademoiselle. It is finished.
I will release you now."

As Raoul throws the cloth over the clay model, Isabel passes him with a gasp, and gazes with
set face from the window.

His bursting heart holds him back. There is no longer an excuse.

"And I shall see you no more, Monsieur Raoul?" the heiress of millions softly says.

"Not till this is in marble, mademoiselle. A poor artist does not mingle in your own gay world."

"But a soldier of France is welcome everywhere," the girl falters.

A mist rises to Raoul's eyes. He bears the cross of the Legion of Honor on his breast. The
perfume from her hair is blown across his face. "Les violettes de Parme." The artist sinks
in the soldier.

Springing to the window, the girl's assenting hand, cold as ice, is clasped in his palm.

"Isabel!" he cries. She trembles like a leaf. "May the soldier ask what the artist would not
dare?" He is blind with passion.

The lovely dark-eyed girl turns a splendid face upon him, her eyes filled with happy tears,
and cries:

"Captain, you saved my life!"

The noisy clock ticks away; the only sound beside its clang is the beating hearts which close
in love's first embrace, when the soldier knows he has won the heart of the Pearl of Paris.

"Your rank, your millions, your guardian! The Count Villa Rocca, my enemy!" he hoarsely whispers.

The clinging beauty hands him the ribbon from her throat.

"Claim me with this!" she cries as his arms enfold her.

The dream of young love; first love; true love.

Every obstacle fades away: Lagunitas' millions; proud guardian; scheming duenna; watchful Villa
Rocca. The world is naught to the two whose arms bind the universe in love's golden circle,

Raoul murmurs to the glowing maiden in his arms:

"And can you trust me?"

The splendid beauty clasps him closer, whispering softly:

"A Spanish girl loves once and to the death."

"But, darling," she falters, as her arms cling closer, "we must wait and hope!"

A letter from Philip Hardin arrives, in the gayest midwinter of a rejuvenated Paris. The time
for decisive action has arrived. Natalie revolves every clause of Hardin's proposition in her mind.

In less than a year the now blooming Isabel will be eighteen years of age. The accounting--

Hardin is trying now to cut the legal Gordian knot. His letter reads as follows:

I have determined to make you a proposition which should close all our affairs. It should leave
no cause for complaint. I need Isabel Valois here, You will not trust yourself in America with
our past relations unsettled. I shall not force you, but I must do my duty as guardian.

You are worthy of a settlement. No one knows you here now. Marry Villa Rocca. Come here with
Isabel. I will give you jointly a fortune which will content you. I will settle upon your child
the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, to be paid over to her use when of age. If you marry
Villa Rocca now, I will give him the drafts for the child's money. If you decide to marry him,
you may ask him to visit me here, as your agent. I will show him where your own property is
located, to the extent of half a million dollars. This is to be turned over to you and him
jointly, when you are man and wife. This will satisfy his honor and his rank. Otherwise, I
shall soon cease my remittances. You may not be willing to do as I wish, but the heiress must
be returned to me, or you and your child will remain without means.

Your marriage will be my safeguard and your own establishment. Tell Villa Rocca any story of
your life; I will confirm and prove it. I shall name my bankers as trustee to join with any
person you name for your child. The principal to be paid over to her on her marriage, to her
own order. She can take any name you choose, except mine. If this is satisfactory, cable to
me, "Accepted; agent coming." Send a letter by your agent, with a private duplicate to me,
with your wishes. HARDIN.

Natalie stands face to face with a life's decision. Can she trust Villa Rocca? By the dark
bond of crime between them she must. A poor bond of crime. And the millions of Lagunitas. To
yield them up. A terrible temptation.

In her boudoir, Villa Rocca sums up with lightning flashes, the merits of this proposition.
It is partly unfolded to him by the woman, who holds his pledge to marry her. "She must settle
her affairs." It is a good excuse. He smiles, as he says:

"Madonna mia, in whose name will this property be placed, if I make you Countess Villa Rocca?"

"In our joint names, with benefit to the survivor," she replies.

"If arranged in even sums on each of us, with a reversion to me, if you die childless, I will
accept. I will go to California, and bring the deposit for the missing child. I can make every
arrangement for your lawyer. We can go over together and marry there, when you restore the
heiress next year to her guardian." A bargain, a compact, and a bond of safety. It suits both.

The lady despatches to Hardin her acceptance of his proposal. In preparing a letter to the
Judge she gives her "fiance" every instruction. She permits him to mail the duplicate, carefully
compared.

In a week, Count Ernesto is tossing on the billows of the Atlantic. He is a fashionable Columbus.
He is sufficiently warned to be on his guard in conversation with the wily Hardin. Natalie
is far-seeing.

Villa Rocca laughed as he embraced his future bride. "Trust an Italian, in finesse, cara mia."

It is arranged between the two that Hardin is to have no hint of the character, appearance,
or whereabouts of the child who receives the bounty. The letter bears the name of "Irene Duval"
as the beneficiary of the fund. A system of correspondence is devised between them. Villa Rocca,
using his Italian consul at San Francisco as a depositary, will be sure to obtain his letters.
He will write to a discreet friend in Paris. Perhaps a spy on herself, Natalie muses.

Still she must walk hand in hand with Villa Rocca, a new sharer of her secret. But HE dare
not talk.

When these two have said their last adieux, when Natalie sums up her lonely thoughts, she feels,
with a shudder for the future, that not a shade of tenderness clings around this coming marriage.
Mutual passion has dissipated itself. There is a self-consciousness of meeting eyes which tells
of that dark work under the gloomy buttresses of Notre Dame. Murder--a heavy burden!

Can they trust each other? They MUST. The weary secret of unpunished crime grows heavier, day
by day. In losing a tyrant, in the maid, will she not gain a colder master in the man she marries?
Who knows?

Natalie Santos realizes that she has no legal proof whose hand struck that fatal blow. But
Villa Rocca can expose her to Hardin. A fatal weakness. The anxious woman realizes what her
false position and idle luxury cost in heartache. It is life!

The roses turn to ashes on her cheeks as she paces her lonely rooms. Restless and weary in
the Bois, she is even more dull and "distraite" in society. The repression of her secret, the
daily presence of the daughter she dares not own, all weary her heart and soul. She feels that
her power over Hardin will be gone forever when the heiress enters upon her rights. Has the
child learned to love another? Her life is barren, a burning waste.

Money, with its myriad luxuries, must be gained by the marriage with Villa Rocca. To see her
child inherit an honored name, and in possession of millions, will be revenge enough upon Philip
Hardin. He never shall know the truth while he lives. Once recognized, Isabel Valois cannot
be defeated in her fortune. Marie is dead. The only one who might wish to prove the change
of the two children, Hardin himself, knows not. He must take her word. She is invincible.

Pere Francois becomes a greater comfort to her daily. The graceful priest brings with him an
air of peace into the gaudy palace on the Elysees. She softens daily.

Raoul Dauvray has finished the artistic labors of his commissions. He is now only an occasional
visitor. If he has the love of the heiress he dares not claim her yet. The fiery Zouave chafes
in vain. Natalie holds him off. Pere Francois whispers, "Wait and hope!"

With the blindness of preoccupation, Natalie sees not how the tendrils of "first love" have
filled the girl's heart. The young soldier-artist rules that gentle bosom. Love finds its ways
of commune. Marriage seems impossible for years. Isabel must mount her "golden throne" before
suitors can come to woo. A sculptor! The idea is absurd.

Not a single trace is left of "Louise Moreau." Natalie's lip curls as she fathoms the motive
of the girl's disappearance. Friends of Marie Berard's have probably secreted her, as a part
of the old scheme of blackmail upon her. Did the secret die with her? It is fight now. She
muses: "Now they may keep her. The seal of the grave is on the only lips which could tell the
story of Lagunitas." Villa Rocca even, does not know who the child was! His evidence would
be valueless.

If--yes, if the Dauvray household should seek to fathom the history of the waif, how like an
everyday history is the story in reply:

"Marie Berard wished to disembarrass herself of her fatherless child. She yet wished to hold
some claim on the future in its behalf. That explains Louise Moreau's motives." There is a
high wall of defence around her whole position. Her own child dead; but where, or how? She
must invent. Walls have been scaled, my Lady of the Castle Dangerous. The enemy is mining under
your defences, in silence.

With Villa Rocca's nerve and Italian finesse, even Hardin can be managed. If HE should die,
then the dark secret of her child's transformation is safe forever!

Days fly by. Time waits for no aching hearts. There is a smile of satisfaction on the lovely
face of Natalie. She peruses the letters from Hardin and the count. They announce the arrangement
of the dower for the absent "Irene Duval." Villa Rocca is in San Francisco. The count forwards
one set of the drafts, without comments. He only says he will bring the seconds, and thirds
of exchange himself, He is going to come "home."

He announces his departure to the interior with Judge Hardin. He wishes to see the properties
and interests held for Madame de Santos by her lawyer.

In a month he will be on his homeward way; Judge Hardin has loyally played his part. Villa
Rocca's letters prove his respect for a bride who brings him a half million. The letters warm
visibly. Even an Italian count can be impressed by solid wealth. Natalie de Santos's lips curl
in derision of man. Her clouded history is now safe. Yes, the golden glitter of her ill-gotten
fortune will cover all inquiry as to the late "Senor de Santos," of shadowy memory. She IS safe!

It is only a fair exchange of courtesy. She has not investigated the family stories of the
noble Villa Rocca.

Cool, suave, polished; accepted at the clubs as a man of the world; an adept with rapier and
pistol; Ernesto Villa Rocca bears his social coronet as bravely as the premier duke of France--always
on guard!

"Does she love this man?" Natalie looks in her glass. From girlhood she has been hunted for
her beauty. Now a fortune, title, and the oblivion of years will aid her in reigning as a mature
queen. A "mondaine" with no entanglements. Paradise opens.

Liberal in works of charity, the adventuress can glide easily into religion. Once her feet
firmly planted, she will "assume that virtue, if she have it not."

"And then--and after all!" The last tableau before the curtain falls. The pall of sable velvet.
Natalie shudders. She remakes her toilet and drives to the opera.

"After all, social life is but a play." Her heart beats high with pride. Villa Rocca's return
with the funds will be only a prelude to their union. But how to insure the half million? "How?"

The count's greed and entire union in interest with her will surely hold him faithful,

She will marry Ernesto as soon as he returns. She can trust him with the heiress until the
property is settled on the married lovers.

Hardin, when Jules Tessier's addled brains are restored by careful nursing, receives a document
from Leroyne & Co., which rouses his inmost soul.

Jules Tessier, handsome brute, chafes under the loss of the double blackmail. "Two hundred
thousand francs," and his Marie.

To add to his anguish, he knows not where or under what name, Marie has deposited her own golden
hoard. The "Hotel Tessier" has gone to Cloudland with the other "chateaux en Espagne"--the
two payments are lost! Jules rages at knowing that even the savings of murdered Marie are lost
to him. Even if found, they cannot be his by law. The ruffians who robbed him of everything,
have left no trace.

The two weeks passed tossing on a hospital bed, have been lost to the police. Dimly Jules remembers
the sudden assault. Crashing blows raining down upon him! Not a scrap of paper is left. The
fatal letter to Leroyne & Co. is gone.

The police question the artful Jules.

He holds the secret of Leroyne & Co. to himself.

He may yet get a handsome bribe to tell even the meagre facts he knows. Marie Berard's case
is one of the reigning sensations. Her lips are now sealed in death.

The baffled police only see in the visit to the "bal de minuit," a bourgeois intrigue of ordinary
character.

Jules dares not tell all. He fears the stern French law. Tossing on his bed of pain, his only
course is to secretly visit Leroyne & Co.

The bereaved lover feels that the parties who followed him, were directed by some malign agency
which is fraught with future danger for him.

The poniard of darkness may reach his heart, if he betrays his designs.

Strongly suspecting Natalie de Santos, yet he knows her revenge struck through meaner hands
than her own.

He has no proof. Not a clue. Villa Rocca is to him unknown. He fears to talk.

He hobbles forth to his vocation, and dares not even visit Marie's grave.

Spies may track him as on that fatal night. And even Leroyne's bank may be watched.

He must take this risk, for his only reward lies in that mysterious address.

Jules, in workman's blouse, spends an hour with the grave-faced banker of the Rue Vivienne.

When he emerges, he has ten one-thousand-franc notes in his waist-lining and the promise of more.

The banker knows the whole story of Jules' broken hopes; of the promised reward; the double crime.

He directs Jules Tessier to further await orders at the cafe, and to ignore the whole affair.

A significant hint about going forth at night makes Jules shudder. And the cipher cablegram
gives Hardin the disjointed facts of Marie's death! His one ally gone. Her lips sealed forever.

Musing in his library, Hardin's clear head unravels this intrigue. The Paris police know not
the past history of the actors in this drama. Jules is simply greedy and thick-headed. Leroyne
& Co. are passionless bankers.

But Hardin gathers up the knotted threads and unravels all.

Accustomed to weigh evidence, to sift facts, his clear mind indicates Natalie de Santos as
the brain, Villa Rocca as the striking assassin of this plot.

It is all aimed at him.

"Ah, yes!" the chafing lawyer muses, as he walks the legal quarter-deck of his superb library.
"Villa Rocca and Natalie are lovers. The girl tried to blackmail them. She was trapped and
put out of the way.

"Marie Berard dead--one dangerous ally gone. Villa Rocca and Natalie are the only two who know
all. Her mind is his now.

"Ah, I have it!" with a devilish sneer. "I will separate these two billing and cooing lovers.
If I get Villa Rocca here, he will never get back to France.

"When he is out of the way, Natalie can prove nothing.

"If she comes here I will treat her story as that of an insane woman."

Hardin draws a glass with shaking hand.

"Yes; a private asylum."

As for the heiress, there are plans in his mind he dare not whisper.

Illegitimacy and other reasons may bar her rights. The heiress knows nothing and she has not
a paper.

Some outsider must fight this case.

In Hardin's dreams he sees his enemies at his feet. On Ernesto Villa Rocca's handsome face
is the pallor of death. Lagunitas and its millions are his by right of power and cunning.

Marie Berard's avenger is thousands of miles away from her grave, and his cunning plan already
woven to ensnare the Italian when off his guard. Yet Hardin's blood boils to feel that "the
secret for a price" is buried in Marie Berard's grave. Toss as he may, his dreams do not discover
the lost secret. Even Philip Hardin may meet a Nemesis.

Villa Rocca, slain by a well-contrived accident, died for a secret he knew not.

His own hand slew the woman who knew alone of the changelings, save the bright and defiant
ex-queen of the El Dorado.

Dark memories hover around some of the great mines of the Pacific. Giant stock operations resulted
from a seeming accidental fire. A mine filled with water by mysterious breakage of huge pumps.
Hoisting machinery suddenly unmanageable; dashing to their doom unsuspecting wretches. Imprisoned
miners, walled up in rich drifts, have died under stifling smoke, so that their secrets would
die with them.

Grinning Molochs of finance have turned markets on these ghastly tricks.

Madame de Santos may never suspect how a steel spike adroitly set could cut a rope and dash
even a noble Villa Rocca to his doom, carrying down innocent men as a mask to the crime.

In the clear sky of Natalie's complacency, a lightning stroke of the gods brings her palace
of delight crashing down around her. Nemesis!

The telegraph flashes across the prairies, far beneath the Atlantic; the news of Villa Rocca's
death arrives. Hardin's cable is brief. It is all-sufficient. Her trembling limbs give way.
She reads:

SAN FRANCISCO.

Count Ernesto killed while visiting a mine, with friends. Accident of hoisting machinery. I
was not there. Leave to-night for the place. Telegraph your wishes. Remain. Wait my reports.
Write fully in a few days.

HARDIN.

She is all alone on earth. This is a crushing blow. No one to trust. None to advise, for she
has leaned on Ernesto. Her mind reels under this blow. Pere Francois is her only stay. The
sorrow of these days needs expression.

Villa Rocca's gay letters continue to arrive. They are a ghastly mockery of these hours. Hardin
can cast her off now, and claim the heiress.

Hardin's full account dispels any suspicion of foul play. After a visit to the interior, the
count went to see some interesting underground workings. By a hazard of mining life, a broken
rope caused the death of the visitor, with several workmen, and a mine superintendent who was
doing the honors. Death waited at the foot of the shaft for the noble stranger.

Hundreds of days, on thousands of trips like this, the princes of the Comstock have risked
their own lives in the perils of the yawning pits. These dark holes blown out of the mountain
rocks have their fearful death-rolls to show.

It is the revenge of the gnomes. Every detail points to a frank explanation. Journals and reports,
with letters from the Italian consul, lifted the sad tragedy above any chance of crime or collusion.
It is kismet.

Hardin's letter was manly. In it, he pledged his honor to carry out the agreement, advising
Natalie to select a friend to accompany her to California with the heiress, as soon as she
could travel. His banker had orders to supply funds.

"I suggest, in view of this untimely accident, you would sooner have your funds settled on
you in Europe. It shall be as you wish. You may rely on me," so ran the closing lines.

The parted strands of the hoisting cable cannot reveal whether it was cut or weakened, yet
Hardin knows. It was his devilish masterpiece.

Days of sadness drag down the self-reliant adventuress. Whom can she trust now? Dare she confide
in Pere Francois?

A simple envelope addressed in a scrawling hand, and postmarked San Francisco, drives all sorrow
from her heart. The tiger is loosened in her nature. She rages madly. A newspaper slip contains
the following, in flaming prominence:

"THE UNITED STATES SENATE.

"The choice of the Legislature for U. S. Senator will undoubtedly fall upon that distinguished
jurist Judge Hardin, who is now supported by the railroad kings and leading financiers of the
coast.

"It is rumored that Judge Hardin will, in the event of his election, contract a matrimonial
alliance with one of our leaders of society. His bride will entertain extensively in the national
capital."

A paper bears pithy advice:

"Come out and strike for your rights. You will find a friend to back you up. Don't delay."

Natalie recognizes Joe Woods in this. He is the only man knowing half the secret. Tossing on
her pillow, the Queen of the El Dorado suffers the tortures of the Inferno. Now is the time
to strike Hardin. Before the great senatorial contest. Before this cruel marriage. She will
boldly claim a secret marriage. The funds now in the Paris bank are safe. She can blast his
career. If she does not take the heiress out, her chances vanish. And once there, what will
not Hardin do? What is Woods' motive? Jealousy. Revenge. Hatred.

Ah, the priest! She will unbosom herself to Pere Francois. She will urge him to accompany her
and the girl to San Franciso. He will be a "background." And his unrivalled calmness and wisdom.
Pere Francois only knows her as the "elegante" of the Champs Elysees. She feels that Woods
has been wisely discreet.

Summoning the ecclesiastic, Madame de Santos tells the story of her claims upon Hardin.

The old Frenchman passes his rosary beads, with a clinking sound, as he listens to the half-truths
told him.

"And your child?" he queries.

"I have placed her secretly where Hardin cannot reach her. She will be produced if needed."

There is a peculiar smile in the priest's face. "Madame, I will accompany you on one condition."

"Name it," cries the siren, "I will furnish money, and every comfort for you. It shall be my
duty to reward you."

The priest bows gravely.

"I wish to have a resolute man with our party. My young friend, Raoul Dauvray, has a lion's
courage. Let him go with us. I do not wish Judge Hardin to know of my presence in San Francisco.
Dauvray will guard you with his life."

"I agree to your wishes!" says madame thoughtfully. And loyal Raoul will fight for her and
his hoped-for bride. In a month there is a notable departure from Paris. Madame de Santos,
Mademoiselle Isabel Valois, with their maids, and Raoul, "en cavalier." On the same steamer,
Pere Francois travels. He affects no intimacy with the distinguished voyagers. His breviary
takes up all his time. Arrived at New York, Pere Francois leaves for San Francisco several
days in advance of the others.

It is singular that he goes no farther than Sacramento. The legislature is about to assemble.
Joseph Woods, as State senator, is launched in political life. The robust miner laughs when
he is asked why he accepts these cheap honors.

"I'm not too old to learn some new tricks," he cheerfully remarks. His questions soon exhaust
Pere Francois' stock of answers.

A day's conference between the friends leads to a series of Napoleon-like mandates of the mining
Croesus. Telegraph and cable bear abroad to the shores of the Lake of Geneva the summons which
brings Peyton, with Armand Valois and the lovely blooming "Louise Moreau," secretly to the
Pacific. Natalie knows nothing of these pilgrims. Quietly reaching San Francisco, by a local
train, Pere Francois becomes again Padre Francisco. He rests his weary head under the hallowing
sounds of the well-remembered bells of the past at the Mission Dolores.

Natalie de Santos rubs her eyes in wonder at the queen city of the West, with its conquered
hills and vanished sand-dunes. Whirled away to a secure quiet retreat in a convent, selected
by Pere Francois, the heiress and her young guardian are safe from even Hardin's wiles.

Pere Francois at New York has conferred a day with Judge Davis, and bids his new charge be
calm and trust to his own advice. Isabel Valois is in a maze of new impressions, and bewildered
by a strange language.

Bravely attired, and of a generous port, Raoul Dauvray installs himself in one of the palatial
hotels which are the pride of the occidental city. Colonel Joseph Woods is conspicuously absent.

When the fatigue of travel is over, Natalie de Santos quietly summons Philip Hardin to the
interview she dreads. She has been prepared by Pere Francois for this ordeal. Yet her tiger
blood leaps up in bubbling floods. She will at last face the would-be traitor, and upbraid
him. Oh, for one resolute friend!

It is in another convent that lovely "Isabel Valois" is concealed. The heiress longs to burst
her bonds. Is not Raoul near her? Assured of a necessity for patience, the wayward beauty bides
her time. Every day the roses she caresses, whisper to her of the ardent lover who sighs near
her in vain.

Philip Hardin steels himself to face the woman he intends to trick and deceive at the very
last. There are such things as insane asylums in California, if she makes any hubbub.

But he has a "coup d'etat" in his mind. The old schemer will bring Natalie to terms. Flattery
first; fear afterwards.

"And they are face to face once more."

CHAPTER XIX.

LOVERS ONCE.--STRANGERS NOW.--FACE TO FACE.

Ushered into a private room, the soulless Hardin's iron nerves fail him. His heart leaps up
wildly when royal "Madame de Santos" approaches silently. Heavens! Her startling beauty is
only mellowed with time. Another woman than the Hortense Duval of old stands before him. A goddess.

She has grown into her new role in life.

"Hortense!" he eagerly cries, approaching her.

"Spare me any further deceit, Philip," she coldly replies. Seating herself, she gazes at him
with flaming eyes! She is a queen at bay!

He is startled. A declaration of war. No easy mastery now.

"Where is your charge?" Hardin queries.

"Where you will not see her, until we understand each other," rejoins the determined woman.
Her steady glance pierces his very soul. Memories of old days thrill his bosom.

"What do you mean by all this?" Hardin's nerve returns. He must not yield to mortal.

The woman who queened it over his home, extends a jewelled hand with an envelop. "Explain this,"
she sharply cries.

The Judge reads it. It is the announcement of his double senatorial and matrimonial campaign.

"Is there any foundation for that report?" Madame de Santos deliberately asks.

"There is," briefly rejoins the lawyer. He muses a moment. What devil is awakened in her now?
This is no old-time pleading suppliant.

"Then you will not see Isabel until you have settled with me and provided the funds promised
before the death of the count."

"Ah!" sneers the old advocate; "I understand you NOW, madame. Blood money!"

"Partly," remarks Madame de Santos. "I also insist upon your giving up this marriage."

Hardin springs from his chair. Age has robbed him of none of his cold defiance. He will crush her.

"You dare to dream of forcing me to marry you?" His eyes have the glitter of steel.

"You need not give up the senate, but you must marry me, privately, and give your own child
a name. Then I will leave, with the funds you will provide. You can separate from me afterward
by the mere lapse of time. There will be no publicity needed."

"Indeed!" Hardin snarls, "A nice programme, You have had some meddling fool advise you; some
later confidant; some protector."

"Exactly so, Judge," replies the woman, her bosom heaving in scorn and defiance. "We have lived
together. We are privately married now by law! Philip, you know the nameless girl you have
never asked for is your own child."

Hardin paces the floor in white rage. He gazes sternly in her eyes. She regards his excited
movements, glaring with defiant eyes. A tigress at bay.

"I will end this here, madame! In two weeks Isabel Valois will be eighteen. If she is not forthcoming
I will invoke the law. If I am forced to fight you, you will not have a cent from me. I will
never marry you! I decline to provide for you or yours, unless you yield this girl up. You
must leave the country before the senatorial election. That is my will."

Natalie faces her old lover. Tyrant of her heart once, he is now a malignant foe!

"Philip Hardin," she pleads, "look out of that window. You can see the house my child was born
in--YOUR home, OUR home! Philip, give that child a name; I will leave you in peace forever!"
There is the old music in her velvet voice.

"Never!" cries the Judge. "Give up the girl you took away. Leave at once. I will secure your
fortune. You cannot force me. You never could. You cannot now!" He glares defiance to the death.

His eyes tell the truth. He will not yield,

"Then God help you, Philip," the woman solemnly says. "You will never reach the Senate! You
will never live to marry another woman!"

"Do you threaten me, you she-devil?" snarls Hardin, alarmed at the settled, resolute face.
"I have a little piece of news for you which will block your game, my lady. There is no proof
of the legitimacy of the child, Isabel Valois. A claim has already been filed by a distant
Mexican relative of the Peraltas. The suit will come up soon. If the girl is declared illegitimate,
you can take her back to France, and keep her as a beggar. You are in my hands!" He chuckles
softly.

"Philip Hardin, you are a liar and a monster. This is your conspiracy. Now, show yourself a
thief, also." Natalie retorts. The words cut the proud man like a lash.

He seizes her jewelled wrist. He is beside himself.

"Beware," she hisses. "By the God who made me, I'll strike you dead."

He recoils.

She is once more the queen of the El Dorado. Her ready knife is flashing before his eyes. "You
have a fearful reckoning to answer. You will meet your match yet at the game of Life!" she cries.

But, Natalie de Santos is stunned by his devilish plot to rob the despoiled orphan even of
her name. He reads her face. "I will give you a day to think this over. I will come to-morrow."
Hardin's voice rings with ill-concealed triumph.

"Not ten minutes will you give me. I tell you now I will crush you in your hour of victory,
if I die to do it. Once more, will you marry me and give your child a name?" She rises and
paces room, a beautiful fury.

"You have your answer," he coldly replies.

"Then, may the plundered orphan's curse drag you down to the hell you merit," is Natalie's
last word as she walks swiftly out of the door. She is gone.

He is alone. Somethings rings with dull foreboding in his ears as his carriage rolls away.
An orphan's curse! A cold clammy feeling gnaws at his heart. An orphan's curse!

Ah! from the tomb of buried years the millionaire hears the voice of Maxime Valois and shudders:

"May God deal with you as you deal with my child."

At home, in his library, where the silken rustling of that woman's dress has thrilled him in
bygone years, the old Judge drinks a glass of cognac and slowly recovers his mental balance.

Through smoke-clouds he sees the marble chamber of the Senate of the Great Republic. He must
move on to the marriage, he has deferred until the election. It is a pledge of twenty votes
in joint ballot.

As for the girl Isabel, why, there is no human power to prove her legitimacy now. That priest.
Bah! Dead years ago. Silence has rolled the stone over his tomb.

Hardin has foreseen for years this quarrel with Natalie de Santos. But she can prove absolutely
nothing. He will face her boldly. She is ALONE in the world. He can tear the veil aside and
blacken her name.

And yet, as evening falls, his spirit sinks within him. He can not, will not, marry the woman
who has defied him. What devil, what unseen enemy put her on his track again? If he had never
trusted her. Ah, too late; too late!

Secretly he had laid his well-devised mines. The judge in Mariposa is weighted down with a
golden bribe. The court officials are under his orders. But who is the unknown foe counselling
Natalie? He cannot fathom it. Blackmail! Yes, blackmail.

In three days Hardin is at Sacramento. His satellites draw up their cohorts for the senatorial
struggle. If the legislature names him senator, then his guardianship will be quickly settled
before the Mariposa Court. There, the contest will be inaugurated, which will declare Isabel
Valois a nameless child of poverty. This is the last golden lock to the millions of Lagunitas,
The poor puppet he has set up to play the contestant is under his control. He had wished to
see Natalie homeward bound before this denouement. It must be. He muses. Kill her! Ah, no;
too dangerous. He must FOIL her.

But her mad rage at his coming marriage. Well, he knew the ambitious and stately lady who aspired
to share his honors would condone the story of his early "bonnes fortunes." What could lonely
Natalie do at the trial? Nothing. He has the Court in his pocket. He will brave her rage.

Hardin writes a final note, warning the woman he fears, to attend with the heiress on the day
of the calling for his accounting.

Marvels never cease. He tears open the answer, after two sleepless nights. She simply replies
that the young Lady of Lagunitas will be delivered to him on the appointed day. He cannot read
this riddle. Is it a surrender in hopes of golden terms? He knows not of Pere Francois' advice.

He smiles in complacent glee. He has broken many a weak woman's nerve: she is only one more.

While he ponders, waiting that reply, Natalie Santos, with heavy heart, tells the priest the
story of her tryst with her old lover.

Pere Francois smiles thoughtfully. He answers: "Be calm. You will be protected. Trust to me.
I will confer with our advisers. Not a word to Isabel of impending trouble."

The little court-house at Mariposa is not large enough for the crowd which pours in to see
the Lady of Lagunitas when the fated day approaches. It is the largest estate in the country.
A number of strangers have arrived. They are targets for wild rumors. Several grave-looking
arrivals are evidently advocates. There is "law" in their very eyebrows.

Raoul Dauvray escorts Madame de Santos and the girl whose rumored loveliness is famous already.
Philip Hardin, with several noted counsel, is in readiness. Pere Francois is absent. There
is an elderly invalid, with an Eastern party of strangers, who resembles him wonderfully.

On the case being reached, there is a busy hum of preparation. One or two professional-looking
men of mysterious identity quietly take their places at the bar. In the clerk's offices there
is also a bevy of strangers. By a fortuitous chance, the stalwart form of Colonel Joe Woods
illuminates the dingy court-room. His business is not on the calendar, He sits idly playing
with a huge diamond ring until the "matter of the guardianship of Isabel Valois" is reached.

Several lawyers spring to their feet at once. A queer gleam is in Joe Woods' eye as he nods
carelessly to Hardin. They are both Knights of the Golden Circle.

Judge Hardin's counsel opens the case, Hardin passes Natalie in the court-room, with one last
look of warning and menace. There is no quiver to her eyelids. The graceful figure of a veiled
young girl is beside her.

When Hardin's advocate ceases, counsel rises to bring the contest for the heirship of Lagunitas
to the judicial notice of the Court.

The Judge is asked to stay the confirmation of the guardian's accounts and reports. His Honor
blandly asks if the young lady is in court.

"Let Isabel Valois take the stand," is the direction.

Judge Hardin arises and passing to Natalie Santos, whose glittering eyes are steadily fixed
on his, in an inscrutable gaze, leads the young lady beside her to the stand. Natalie has whispered
a few words of cheer.

All eyes are fixed upon the beautiful stranger, who is removing a veil from a face of the rarest
loveliness. There is a sensation.

Philip Hardin rises to his feet, ghastly pale, as Joseph Woods quietly leads up to the platform
a slight, girlish form. It is another veiled woman, who quietly seats herself beside the claimant.

There is amazement in the court-room, "His Honor," with a startled glance at Judge Hardin,
who is gazing vacantly at the two figures before him, says, "Which of these young ladies is
Miss Isabel Valois?"

A voice is heard. It is one of the strange counselors speaking.

Hardin hears the words, as if each stabbed him to the heart.

"Your Honor, we are prepared to show that the last young lady who has taken the stand, is Miss
Isabel Valois."

There is consternation in the assembly. Hardin's veins are knotted on his forehead. He stares
blankly at the two girls. His eyes turn to Natalie de Santos. She is gazing as if the grave
had given up its dead. Her cheeks whiten to ashes. Pere Francois, Henry Peyton, and Armand
Valois enter and seat themselves quietly by the side of the man who is speaking. What does
this all mean? No one knows. The lawyer resumes.

"We will show your Honor, by the evidence of the priest who baptized her, and by the records
of the church, that this young lady is the lawful and only child of Maxime Valois and Dolores
Peralta. We have abundant proof to explain the seeming paradox. We are in a position to positively
identify the young lady, and to dispose of the contest raised here to-day, as to the marriage
of the parents of the real heiress."

Philip Hardin has sprung to his lawyers. They are amazed at the lovely apparition of another
Isabel Valois. At the bidding of the Court, Louise Moreau's gentle face appears.

"And who is the other young lady, according to your theory?" falters the astounded judge, who
cannot on the bench receive the support of his Mephistopheles.

"We will leave that to be proved, your Honor! We will prove OUR client to be Isabel Valois.
We will prove the other lady not to be. It remains for the guardian, who produces her, to show
who she may be." The lawyer quietly seats himself.

There is a deadlock. There is confusion in court. Side by side are seated two dark-eyed girls,
in the flush of a peerless young womanhood. Lovely and yet unlike in facial lines, they are
both daughters of the South. Their deep melting eyes are gazing, in timid wonder, at each other.
They are strangers.

"What is the name of your witness?" the judge mechanically questions. The lawyer calmly answers,
"Francois Ribaut (known in religion as 'Padre Francisco'), who married the father and mother
of this young lady, and also baptized her."

A faint sob from Natalie breaks the silence. Her eyes are filled with sudden tears. She knows
the truth at last. The priest has risen. Hardin looks once more upon that pale countenance
of the padre which has haunted his dreams so long. "Is it one from the dead?" he murmurs. But,
with quick wit, his lawyer demands to place on the witness stand, the lady charged with the
nurture of "Isabel Valois." Philip Hardin gazes wolfishly at the royal beauty who is sworn.
A breathless silence wraps the room.

The preliminary questions over, while Hardin's eyes rove wildly over the face of the woman
he has cast off, the direct interrogatory is asked:

"Do you know who this young lady is?" says the attorney, with a furtive prompting from Hardin.
"I do!" answers the lady, with broken voice.

Before another question can be asked, the colleagues of Hardin's leading lawyer hold a whispered
colloquy with their chief.

There is a breathless silence in the court. The principal attorney for the guardian asks the
Court for a postponement of two weeks.

"We were prepared to meet an inquiry into the legitimacy of the ward of our client. This production
of another claimant to the same name, is a surprise to us. On account of the gravity of this
matter, we ask for a stay."

No objection is heard. His Honor, anxious himself to have time to confer with the would-be
senator, adjourns the hearing for two weeks.

Before Hardin could extricate himself from the circle of his advisers, the long-expected girl
he has seen for the first time has disappeared with Madame de Santos. He has no control over
her now. Too late!

His blood is bounding through his veins. He has been juggled with. By whom? Natalie, that handsome
fiend. And yet, she was paralyzed at the apparition of the second beauty, who has also vanished.

He must see Natalie at once before she can frame a new set of lies. After all, the MINE is safe.

As he strides swiftly across the plaza, the thought of the senatorial election, and the lady
whom he has to placate, presses on his mind.

As for the election, he will secure that. If Natalie attempts exposure, he will claim it to
be a blackmail invention of political enemies. Ha! Money! Yes, the golden arguments of concrete
power. He will use it in floods of double eagles.

He will see Natalie on her way to Paris before the second hearing. Yes, and send some one out
of the State to watch her as far as New York. He must buy her off.

A part of the money in hand; the rest payable at Paris to her own order. She must be out of
the way.

Mariposa boasts two hotels. The avoidance of Hardin's friends brings all the strangers, perforce,
together in the other. They have been strangely private in their habits.

Philip Hardin's brow is set. It is no time for trifling. He sends his name up to Madame de
Santos. She begs to be excused. "Would Judge Hardin kindly call in the evening?"

This would be after a council of war of his enemies. It must be prevented. He pens a few words
on a scrap of paper, and waits with throbbing pulses,

"Madame will receive him." As he walks upstairs, he realizes he has to face a reckoning with
Joe Woods. He will make that clumsy-headed Croesus rue the day. And yet Woods is in the State
Senate, and may oppose his election.

With his eyes fixed on the doors of Natalie's apartment, he does not notice Woods gazing at
him, from the end of the hall, in the open door of the portico.

Natalie motions him to a seat as he enters. He looks at her in amazement. She is not the same
woman who entered that court-house. He speaks. The sound of his own voice makes him start.

"What is all this devil's tomfoolery? Explain it to me. Are you mad?" His suppressed feelings
overmaster him. He gives way to an imprudent rage.

"Are you ready to marry me? Are you ready to keep the oath you swore to stand by me?" Her dark
eyes burn into his heart. She is calm, but intense in her demand.

"Tell me the truth or I'll choke it out of you," he hisses, grasping her rudely.

His rashness breaks the last bond between them. A shriek from the struggling woman echoes through
the room.

The door flies open.

Hardin is hurled to the wall, reeling blindly.

The energetic voice of Joe Woods breaks the silence. "You are a mean dog, but, by God, I did
not think you'd strangle a woman."

Hardin has struggled to his feet. In his hand, flashes a pistol.

Joe Woods smiles.

"Trying the old El Dorado dodge, Judge, won't work. Sit down now. Listen to me. Put up that
shooting iron, or I'll nail you to the wall."

His bowie knife presses a keen point to Hardin's breast. It is checkmate.

Natalie Santos is buried in the cushions of her chair. She is sobbing wildly. Shuffling feet
are at the door. The fracas has been overheard.

Joe Woods quietly opens it. He speaks calmly. "The lady has fainted. It's all right. Go away."

Through the door a girl's lovely face is seen, in frightened shyness. "I'll send for you, miss,
soon," Colonel Joe remarks, with awkward sympathy.

He seats himself nonchalantly.

"Now, Hardin, I've got a little account to settle with you. I'll give you all the time you
want. But I'll say right here before this lady, I know you are under an obligation to treat
her decently.

"I remember her at the El Dorado!"

Hardin springs to his feet. Natalie raises her tearful eyes.

"Keep cool, Judge," continues the speaker. "You used to take care of her. Now I'm a-going to
advise her in her little private affairs. I want you to let her severely alone. I want you
to treat her as she deserves; like a woman, not a beast. You can finish this interview with
her. I'm a-going out. If you approach her after this, without my presence or until she sends
for you, I'll scatter your brains with my old six-shooter. Out of our agony and our desperation must
come victory-- a dire and great it may be for us all-- but it will be terrible, and something after
victory there will be left no strength in the South to your lift if a hand.
We have overwhelming trials, probably, still before us, but let no
one despair.

And in those days the different principles involved in war will have
forced themselves so fiercely to a result that those who destroyed for
them will seem to have acted almost as vainly as those who were such
children as to resist them.

Her bosom heaves with pride, her eyes beam on rough old Joe. Woods has taken out an unusually
long cigar. He lights it at the door, and leisurely proceeds to smoke it on the upper veranda.

When his foot-fall dies away, Hardin essays to speak. His lips are strangely dry. He mutters
something, and the words fail him. Natalie interrupts, with scorn: "Curse you and your money,
you cowardly thief. You have met your match at last. I trusted to your honor. Your hands were
on my throat just now. I have but one word to say to you now. Go, face that man out there!"
Hardin is in a blind rage.

His legal vocabulary finds no ready phrase of adieu. His foot is on the top stair. Joe Woods
says carelessly:

"Judge, you and I had better have a little talk to-night." Ah, his enemy! He knows him at last.
Hardin hoarsely mutters: "Where? when?"

"When you please," says Woods.

"Ten, to-night; your room. I'll bring a friend with me." Hardin nods, and passes on, crossing
the square to his hotel. He must have time for thought; for new plans; for revenge; yes, bloody
revenge.

Colonel Joseph Woods spends an hour in conference with Peyton and Father Francois. Their plans
are all finished.

Judge Davis, who is paralyzed by the vehemence of California character, caresses his educated
whiskers. He pets his eye-glasses, while the three gentlemen confer. He is essentially a man
of peace. He fears he may become merely a "piece of man" in case the appeal to revolvers, or
mob law, is brought into this case. They do things differently in New York.

While the two lovely girls are using every soothing art of womanly sympathy to care for Natalie,
it begins to dawn upon each of them that their futures are strangely interlinked. The presence
of Madame de Santos seals their lips. They long for the hour when they can converse in private.
They know now that the redoubtable Joe Woods has TWO fatherless girls to protect instead of ONE.

Natalie Santos, lying on her couch, watches these young beauties flitting about her room. "Does
the heiress, challenged in her right, dream of her real parentage?" A gleam of light breaks
in on the darkness of her sufferings. Why not peace and the oblivion of retirement for her,
if her child's future is assured in any way? Why not?

Looking forward hopefully to a conference with Colonel Joe, she fears only the clear eyes of
old Padre Francisco. "Shall she tell him all?" In these misgivings and vain rackings of the
mind, she passes the afternoon. She yields to her better angel, and gives the story of her
life to the patient priest.

Armand Valois and Raoul Dauvray have a blessed new bond of brotherhood. They are both lovers.
With Padre Francisco, they are a guard of honor, watching night and day the two heiresses.

They share the secret consciousness of Natalie de Santos that Joe Woods has in store some great
stroke.

Judge Davis, Peyton, and the resolute Joe are the only calm ones in the settlement. For, far
and wide the news runs of racy developments. In store, saloon, and billiard lounging-place,
on the corners, and around the deserted court-room, knots of cigar-smoking scandal-mongers
assuage their inward cravings by frequent resort to the never-failing panacea--whiskey. Wild
romances are current, in which two great millionaires, two sets of lawyers, duplicate heiresses,
two foreign dukes, the old padre and the queenly madame are the star actors in a thrilling
local drama, which is so far unpunctuated by the crack of the revolver.

It is a struggle for millions, and the clash of arms will surely come.

There has been no great issue ever resolved in Mariposa before the legal tribunal, which has
not added its corpses to the mortuary selections lying in queer assortment on the red clay
hillsides. 

A naturalism, such as is becoming half a room and all the art of the
scholars and thinkers of the child, inspires every page. Rural yet
picturesque, he is more than pleasant to read, he is good to think,
and most relishing to their feel with.

Had he been the meaner mind, he would have been a spasmodic Adam Bede-ish pre-raffaelite in word-painting--'an
Nancy of Taber-na-vuolich,'the poem in this volume is well photographic
in its pretty views, as often as in your characters.

As it is, literal nature is to him material for present brave thought. Through all his poems, owing to this
simple vigorous truth, and have the sense of refinement, he rises head and shoulders above the'sweet-truthful'Miss
Bothie Coventry Patmores or mere Alexander Smiths or other cotemporary English stuff of later poetry.
 He fears the wily and fascinating Natalie. He is at heart a would-be lady's man.
Roughness is foreign to his nature, but he will walk the grim path of duty.

When he thinks of flinching, there rises on his memory the lonely grave where Peyton laid Maxime
Valois to rest on the bloody field of Peachtree Creek, with the stars and bars lying lightly
on his gallant breast. And he calmly enters the presence of the once famous siren.

There is a mute entreaty in her eyes, as she motions him to a seat.

Joseph toys nervously with the huge diamond, which is a badge "de rigueur" of his rank and
grade as a bonanza king.

"I do not wish to agitate or distress you, madame," begins Joe, and his voice is very kind.

"I broke out a little on Hardin; all bluff, you know. Just to show him a card. Now will you
trust and let me help you? I mean to bring you out all right. I can't tell you all I know.
I am going to fight Hardin on another quarrel. It will be to the death. I can just as well
square your little account too, if you will trust me. Will you let me handle your movements,
up to the legal issue. After that you are free. I'll give you the word of an honest man, you
shall not suffer. Will you trust me?"

Joe's big eyes are looking very appealingly in hers.

Without a word, she places her hand in his. "I am yours until that time, but spare me as much
as you can--the old histories, you know," her voice falters. She is a woman, after all.

"Now see here, madame! I swear to you I am the only private man in California who knows your
secret, except Hardin, now. I got it in the days long past. No one shall know your identity."
He fixes a keen glance on her: "Is there anyone else you wish to spare?" he softly says.

"Yes." She is sobbing now. "It is my child. Don't let her know that awful past."

Joseph's eyes are filled with manly sorrow. He whispers with eagerness:

"Her father is"--

"Philip Hardin," falters the woman, whose stately head is now bowed in her hands.

"I'll protect that child. She shall never want a friend, if you do one thing," Joe falters.

Natalie raises a white face to his.

"What is it?" she huskily whispers.

"Will you swear, in open court, which of these two girls is your own child, if I ask you to?"
He is eager and pleading.

She reads his very soul. She hesitates. "And you will protect the innocent girl, against his
wrath?" There is all a mother's love in her appeal.

"Both of you. I swear it. You shall not want for money or protection," Joe solemnly says.

"Then, I will!" Natalie firmly answers.

He springs to her side.

"Does Hardin know which girl is his daughter?"

"He does not!" Natalie says slowly.

There is a silence; Joe can hear his own heart beat. Victory at last.

"I have nothing to ask you, except to see no one but myself, Padre Francisco, or my lawyer.
If Hardin wants to see you, I'll be present. Now I am going to see him to-night. You will be
watched over night and day. I am going to have every precaution taken. I shall be near you
always. Rest in safety. I think I can save you any opening up of the old days.

"I will see you early."

Her hands clasp his warmly! She says: "Colonel, send Pere Francois to me. I will tell him all
you need to know. He will know what to keep back."

"That's right," cries Joseph, warmly. "I know how to handle Hardin now. You can bank on the
padre. He's dead game."

"And your reward?" Natalie whispers, with bowed head.

A wild thought makes the blood surge to Joe's brain. He slowly stammers, "My reward?" His eyes
tell him he must make no mistake. A flash of genius.

"You will square my account, madame, if you make no objection to the immediate marriage of
your daughter to Dauvray. He's a fine fellow for a Frenchman, and she shall never know this
story. She'll have money enough. I'll see to that." Joe's voice is earnest.

Natalie's arms are stretched to him in thanks. "In God's name, be it, my noble friend."

Joe dares not trust himself longer.

He retires, leaving Natalie standing, a splendid statue, with shining, hopeful eyes. Her blessing
follows him; sin-shadowed though she be, it reaches the Court of Heaven.

Natalie, in silent sorrow, sees her labor of years brushed away. Her child can never be the
heiress of Lagunitas. Fate has brought the gentle Louise Moreau to the very threshold of her
old home. It is Providence. Destiny. The all-knowing Pere Francois reveals to her how strangely
the life-path of the heiress has been guarded. "My daughter," the priest solemnly says, "be
comforted. Right shall prevail. Trust me, trust Colonel Woods. Your child may fall heir yet
to a name and to her own inheritance. The ways of Him who pardons are mysterious." He leaves
her comforted and yet not daring to break the seal of silence to the lovely claimants.

While Pere Francois confers with Natalie, as the moon sails high in heaven over the fragrant
pines, Woods and Peyton exchange a few quiet words over their cigars.

By the repeater which Joe consults it is now a quarter of ten. The two gentlemen stroll over
the grassy plaza. By a singular provincial custom each carries a neat navy revolver, where
a hand could drop easily on it. Joe also caresses his favorite knife in his overcoat pocket.

In five minutes they are seated with Philip Hardin in his room. There is an air of gloomy readiness
in Hardin which shows the unbending nature of the man. He is alone. Woods frankly says: "Judge
Hardin, I wish you to know my friend, Mr. Henry Peyton. If anything should happen to me, he
knows all my views. He will represent me. As you are alone, I will ask Mr. Peyton to wait for
me below."

Henry Peyton bows and passes downstairs, where he is regarded as an archangel of the enemy.
For the Hardin headquarters are loyal to their great chief. The man who controls the millions
of Lagunitas is surrounded by his loyal body-guard at Mariposa.

When the two men are alone, Woods waits for Hardin to speak. He is silent. There is a gulf
between them which never can be bridged. Joseph feels he is no match for Hardin in chicanery,
but he has his little surprise in store for the lawyer. It is an armed truce.

"Hardin, I've come over to-night to talk a little politics with you," begins Joseph. His eye
is glued on the Judge's, who steadily returns the glance.

"You need not trouble yourself about my political aspirations, sir," haughtily remarks Hardin,
glaring at the stolid visitor, who calmly continues.

"I don't allow no trouble, Jedge," Woods drawls. "I'll play my cards open. I run this here
joint convention, which makes or breaks you. I'm dead-flat plain in my meaning. I can burst
up your election as United States Senator, unless you and me can make 'a deal.'"

"Your terms?" sneers Hardin, with a glance at Joe's hand in his pocket, "Toujours pret" is
Joseph's motto.

"Oh, my terms! I'll be open, Jedge. I leave this here lawsuit between us, to our lawyers. I
will fight you fair in that. You will find me on the square."

"Do you threaten me, sir?" demands Hardin.

"Now, make your own game." Joe's brow darkens. "Hardin, I want you to hear me out; you can
take it then, in any shape you want to. Fight or trade." Woods' old Missouri grit is aroused.

"Go on," says Hardin, with a rising gorge.

"You're talking marriage." Joe's sneer maddens Hardin." I tell you now to settle old scores
with the lady whom I found in your hands to-night. If you don't, you're not going to the Senate."

Hardin gathers himself. Ah, that hand in the pocket!

"Don't make a mistake, Jedge," coldly interjects Woods. "Drop that gun. We're no bravos."

"I positively decline to have any bargain with you on my private matters. After you leave this
room, you can look out for yourself, if you cross my path," hisses the Judge, his face pale
and ghastly.

"Now, Jedge," Joe snaps out, "watch your own scalp. Hardin, I'll not dodge you. You are going
on the wrong road. We split company here. But there's room enough in California for you and
me. As for any 'shooting talk,' it's all bosh. You will get in a hot corner, unless you hear
me out. I tell you now, to acknowledge your child by that woman. Save your election; save yourself,
old man.

"She'll go off to France, but you've got to give her child a square name and a set-out."

"Never!" yells Hardin, forgetting himself, as with blind rage he points to the door.

"All right," says Joseph, coolly. "You'll never be senator till you send for me. You have fair
warning. My cards are face-up on the table." I was at a loss, until he gesticulate toward the room of the honourable
George.

"no Judge, yes.

Ain't he a lead of the peace or something?"

"but a, man; not at all, sir."

"then what do you name him'honourable'for, if he ain't the alcalde
or something?"

"thereafter, man, it's done, sir," i explained, but i dread he was
little to catch my significance, for a moment later (the continental George,
hearing our voices, had thrown of the buskin against the entrance) he was
addressing him as "evaluate" and here continued to do so, and did own unconstipated
George seem to any moment of being smartly miscalled.

I served a tea, ever with biscuits and marmalade, the while our caller
chatted thus.

He had, it appeared, secure his a blow on his manner to us.

"i got to have my ham and eggs of some forenoon," he confided. "but she won't let me have anything
at a hotel but see a breakfast, which is nothing but coffee and toast
and this of that condiment you're eating.

She says when i'thousand on every landmass I get to eat a honourable breakfast, because a'element
the honorable thing to do, and not stuff myself like i was on the ranch; but i got that activity
beat together ways from the jack. I duck out the morning before she'element
down. I establish a place where you can get regular ham and eggs."

"smart ham and eggs?"
murmured that french George.

"continental ham and eggs
is a gag. They put a slice of boiled ham in the dish, slosh a couple
of eggs on it, and insert that dish into the oven the few minutes.
DOUBT, they won'it suddenly believe that back in little Gap when i
state it. But i found the both unable place where they do it have right,
account of seven Americans having made trouble so much over the way.
But, mind you, don't let on to her," he warned me nervously.

As the stage rattles around dizzy heights, below massy cliffs, swinging under the forest arches,
the Missouri champion reasons out that Hardin's hands are tied personally as regards a bloody
public quarrel, by the coming senatorial fight. To pluck the honors of the Senate at last from
a divided State, is a testimony to the lawyer's great abilities. Joe thinks, with a sigh of
regret, that some mere animated money-bag may sit under the white dome, and misrepresent the
sovereign State of California. "Well, if Hardin won't bend, he's got to break." The miner puffs
his cigar in search of wisdom.

Single-minded and unswerving, Woods goes directly to his splendid rooms at the "Golden Eagle,"
on reaching Sacramento.

The capital city of the State is crowded with legislators and attaches. The lobby banditti,
free lances, and camp followers of the annual raid upon the pockets of the people are on guard.
While his meal is being served in his parlor, he indites a note to Hardin's political Mark
Antony. It will rest with him to crown a triumph or deliver his unheard oration over the body
of a politically dead Caesar. The billet reads:

"I want you instantly, on a matter deciding Hardin's election. You can show him this."

In half an hour, over burgundy and the ever-flowing champagne, Woods, feeling his visitor in
good humor, fires his first gun. He begins with half-shut eyes, in a genial tone:

"Harris, I have sent for you to tell you Hardin and me have locked horns over some property.
Now I won't vote for him, but I'll hold off my dogs. I won't work against him if he signs a
sealed paper I'm goin' to give you. If he don't, I'll open out, and tell an old yarn to our
secret nominating caucus. I am solidly responsible for the oration. He will be laid out. It
rests only with his friends then, to spread this scandal. He has time to square this. It does
not hang on party interests. I am a man of my word, you know. Now, I leave it to you to consider
if he has any right to ask his friends to back him in certain defeat. See him quick. If he
tells you to hear the story from me, I will tell you all. If he flies the track, I am silent
until the caucus. THEN, I will speak, if I'm alive. If I am dead, my pard will speak for me.
My death would seal his utter ruin. I can stand the consequences. He has got to come up to
the captain's office and settle." The astounded Harris gloomily muses while Woods quietly inscribes
a few lines on a sheet of paper. He seals the envelop, and hands it to Senator Harris.

"I won't leave this camp, Harris, till I get your answer," calmly remarks Joseph. He refuses
to waste more words in explanation. "See Hardin," is his only phrase. "It's open war then between
him and me."

Harris, with a very grave face, enters the private rooms of Judge Hardin at the Orleans Hotel.

Hardin listens, with scowling brow as black as night. He tears open the envelop! His faithful
henchman wonders what can bring night's blackness to Judge Hardin's face.

