"Most assuredly not, have I not told you that God heals the sick, that God is Good, that God
is Mind? If I have robbed you of your false god, I have done a good work, for then you are
ready to seek the true God. I recommend that you carefully study 'Science and Health.' In it
I found who and what the true God is. If you will read this book, in connection with the Bible,
you will find that it will unlock the mysteries of the Bible, and you will come into possession
of that peace that passeth all understanding." "I shall certainly do as you suggest, Mrs. White;
for I have determined to find the true God."

"Now, Mr. Williams, do you wish me to give your wife treatment?"

"Yes, I have determined to give Christian Science a fair trial."

"As it is getting rather late, I will not see your wife to-night, but will treat her absently
as soon as I get home. I would also suggest that you acquaint her with the fact that I will
see her tomorrow evening."

"But I have not asked her whether she is willing to take science treatment," said the pastor.

"Father, that has all been arranged, as I have asked her; all that mother wanted was your sanction.
Otherwise she would not take the treatment, and I had acquainted Mrs. White with the facts
before she came."

"I am pleased to hear that your mother is willing to try these treatments, as we have tried
everything else, and now this is our last and only hope."

"When it should have been your first; yet that is the way of mortals, they try everything else
first and God last, nevertheless God is ever ready to help man when man turns to Him, no matter
what has gone before," said the practitioner.

"Mrs. White, your words give me great hope, yet my wife's case seems hopeless."

"Mr. Williams, why should you think it strange that a good, and loving, and all-powerful Father
should be ever ready to help His children?"

"I know not, unless it is because He did not answer my prayers, and this may have weakened
my faith," meekly said the pastor.

"But you did not pray to an all-good, loving, and all-powerful God, or you would surely have
been answered; you were praying to a false god, even one of your own making."

"Yes, I know now that there was something wrong, and I supposed it was because God did not
wish to help; but you have shown me that the fault was not with God, but with myself."

"Well, Mr. Williams, I am glad that the light of understanding is coming to your consciousness,
and now I must be going. I have no special directions to give you regarding your wife except
that I don't want you or Walter to tell a single person that your wife is receiving Christian
Science treatment, and you may rest assured that I shall not tell any one."

The pastor was very much relieved to hear Mrs. White say she would tell no one, and supposing
she did not wish to jeopardize his position as minister, he said, "I thank you very much, Mrs.
White, for being so solicitous of my position."

Mrs. White's answer rather surprised him. She said: "When I told you to tell no one, I did
not have you or your position in thought, I was simply thinking of the welfare of your wife.
Now good-night, and you may expect me at the same hour to-morrow evening."

The pastor and his son bade her a hearty goodnight, then returned to the library. As soon as
they arrived there the pastor turned to his son and said, "Walter, what other reason could
Mrs. White have in bidding us say nothing of the treatments, excepting my position?"

"Father, I do not fully understand why this is done, but I have heard that they request this
in all cases. I think it is for the same reason that Jesus Christ told them He healed, to go
and tell no man."

The pastor looked at his son and said, "It may be for the same reason, although both are a
mystery to me, at any rate this disproves the assertion the Rev. Jones made in regard to these
lady practitioners being pleased to tell their business to everybody. Why, any one could be
healed by Christian Science and no one be the wiser. I wonder if this does not account for
the mysterious recovery of Mr. Anderson. You remember the paper stated that he was given up
by the physicians, and that he could not live more than twenty-four to thirty-six hours; then
to the surprise of everybody he began to mend rapidly, and in six week's time no one would
think that he ever had a sick day in his life. And ever since he has been attending to his
business, and every time I meet him he seems running over with happiness, joy, and good health."

"Father, wasn't he supposed to be suffering from a very severe case of Blight's disease?"

"Yes, he had a consultation of three of our best physicians, and they pronounced it Bright's
disease."

"If it really was Christian Science that healed him, I am sure it will heal mother."

"Yes, son, I think so too, I believe I will ask Mr. Anderson what healed him, for if it was
Christian Science, it will give me more confidence."

"Now please bring me this science book you found, as I would like to see it."

"I will get it at once, father," said the delighted boy, for he felt sure that if his father
ever started to read it, he would never leave it until he had discovered the great truth the
book contained.

In a few moments he was back and handed the book to his father, who said, "Walter, I wish you
would call in to see your mother and acquaint her with what has been done; then you had better
retire, as I may spend some time with this book."

"All right, father. Good-night."

"Good-night, Walter," said the pastor, as he assumed an easy position in his large armchair.

Walter went to his mother's room and, finding her awake, told her all about the visit of the
practitioner, and also some of the things she had said, and that she was coming to see her
the next evening. He then bade her a cheerful good-night and retired to his own room, a very
happy and well satisfied boy.

His father continued his reading until long after midnight, and as he closed the book he said
aloud, "It truly is a wonderful book, but I cannot agree with all that it contains, although
this may be because I do not fully understand." He then wended his way to his wife's bedchamber,
and looking in, found her sleeping peacefully; then he murmured: "I must trust God fully, for
no one else can help her."

CHAPTER XIV

THE DREAM

The next evening at the appointed hour Mrs. White made her appearance, and after a few casual
remarks, requested to be taken to Mrs. Williams. The pastor introduced her to his wife.

The practitioner, after explaining her purpose in calling, kindly requested the pastor to leave
the room as she wished to be alone with her patient.

As soon as the pastor had left the room, Mrs. White turned to her patient and said in a voice
full of affection and love: "Be not afraid, Mrs. Williams, God is an ever-present help in time
of trouble, therefore I bid you hope."

Some of the languid and discouraged look that had been on Mrs. Williams's face seemed to fade
away as she said, "You bid me hope, when all the rest of the world and my physicians have told
me my case is hopeless? Constant heavy winds, which as soil formers are second to temperature changes
but freezing water, are also usually more common in arid than in
humid countries.

Consequently the pulverization from rocks goes on most rapidly in dry-farm districts.
 'He doeth the work.'"

"If I could only believe," said the sick woman, with eyes full of tears.

