LITERATURE AND LIFE--Spanish Prisoners of War

by William Dean Howells

SPANISH PRISONERS OF WAR

Certain summers ago our cruisers, the St. Louis and the Harvard, arrived at Portsmouth, New
Hampshire, with sixteen or seventeen hundred Spanish prisoners from Santiago de Cuba. They
were partly soldiers of the land forces picked up by our troops in the fights before the city,
but by far the greater part were sailors and marines from Cervera's ill-fated fleet. I have
not much stomach for war, but the poetry of the fact I have stated made a very potent appeal
to me on my literary side, and I did not hold out against it longer than to let the St. Louis
get away with Cervera to Annapolis, when only her less dignified captives remained with those
of the Harvard to feed either the vainglory or the pensive curiosity of the spectator. Then
I went over from our summer colony to Kittery Point, and got a boat, and sailed out to have
a look at these subordinate enemies in the first hours of their imprisonment.

I.

It was an afternoon of the brilliancy known only to an afternoon of the American summer, and
the water of the swift Piscataqua River glittered in the sun with a really incomparable brilliancy.
But nothing could light up the great monster of a ship, painted the dismal lead-color which
our White Squadrons put on with the outbreak of the war, and she lay sullen in the stream with
a look of ponderous repose, to which the activities of the coaling-barges at her side, and
of the sailors washing her decks, seemed quite unrelated. A long gun forward and a long gun
aft threatened the fleet of launches, tugs, dories, and cat-boats which fluttered about her,
but the Harvard looked tired and bored, and seemed as if asleep. She had, in fact, finished
her mission. The captives whom death had released had been carried out and sunk in the sea;
those who survived to a further imprisonment had all been taken to the pretty island a mile
farther up in the river, where the tide rushes back and forth through the Narrows like a torrent.
Its defiant rapidity has won it there the graphic name of Pull-and-be-Damned; and we could
only hope to reach the island by a series of skilful tacks, which should humor both the wind
and the tide, both dead against us. Our boatman, one of those shore New Englanders who are
born with a knowledge of sailing, was easily master of the art of this, but it took time, and
gave me more than the leisure I wanted for trying to see the shore with the strange eyes of
the captives who had just looked upon it. It was beautiful, I had to own, even in my quality
of exile and prisoner. The meadows and the orchards came down to the water, or, where the wandering
line of the land was broken and lifted in black fronts of rock, they crept to the edge of the
cliff and peered over it. A summer hotel stretched its verandas along a lovely level; everywhere
in clovery hollows and on breezy knolls were gray old farmhouses and summer cottages-like weather-beaten
birds' nests, and like freshly painted marten-boxes; but all of a cold New England neatness
which made me homesick for my malodorous Spanish fishing-village, shambling down in stony lanes
to the warm tides of my native seas. Here, every place looked as if it had been newly scrubbed
with soap and water, and rubbed down with a coarse towel, and was of an antipathetic alertness.
The sweet, keen breeze made me shiver, and the northern sky, from which my blinding southern
sun was blazing, was as hard as sapphire. I tried to bewilder myself in the ignorance of a
Catalonian or Asturian fisherman, and to wonder with his darkened mind why it should all or
any of it have been, and why I should have escaped from the iron hell in which I had fought
no quarrel of my own to fall into the hands of strangers, and to be haled over seas to these
alien shores for a captivity of unknown term. But I need not have been at so much pains; the
intelligence (I do not wish to boast) of an American author would have sufficed; for if there
is anything more grotesque than another in war it is its monstrous inconsequence. If we had
a grief with the Spanish government, and if it was so mortal we must do murder for it, we might
have sent a joint committee of the House and Senate, and, with the improved means of assassination
which modern science has put at our command, killed off the Spanish cabinet, and even the queen--mother
and the little king. This would have been consequent, logical, and in a sort reasonable; but
to butcher and capture a lot of wretched Spanish peasants and fishermen, hapless conscripts
to whom personally and nationally we were as so many men in the moon, was that melancholy and
humiliating necessity of war which makes it homicide in which there is not even the saving
grace of hate, or the excuse of hot blood.

I was able to console myself perhaps a little better for the captivity of the Spaniards than
if I had really been one of them, as we drew nearer and nearer their prison isle, and it opened
its knotty points and little ravines, overrun with sweet-fern, blueberry-bushes, bay, and low
blackberry-vines, and rigidly traversed with a high stockade of yellow pine boards. Six or
eight long, low, wooden barracks stretched side by side across the general slope, with the
captive officers' quarters, sheathed in weather-proof black paper, at one end of them. About
their doors swarmed the common prisoners, spilling out over the steps and on the grass, where
some of them lounged smoking. One operatic figure in a long blanket stalked athwart an open
space; but there was such poverty of drama in the spectacle at the distance we were keeping
that we were glad of so much as a shirt-sleeved contractor driving out of the stockade in his
buggy. On the heights overlooking the enclosure Gatling guns were posted at three or four points,
and every thirty or forty feet sentries met and parted, so indifferent to us, apparently, that
we wondered if we might get nearer. We ventured, but at a certain moment a sentry called to
us, "Fifty yards off, please!" Our young skipper answered, "All right," and as the sentry had
a gun on his shoulder which we had every reason to believe was loaded, it was easily our pleasure
to retreat to the specified limit. In fact, we came away altogether, after that, so little
promise was there of our being able to satisfy our curiosity further. We came away care fully
nursing such impression as we had got of a spec tacle whose historical quality we did our poor
best to feel. It related us, after solicitation, to the wars against the Moors, against the
Mexicans and Peruvians, against the Dutch; to the Italian campaigns of the Gran Capitan, to
the Siege of Florence, to the Sack of Rome, to the wars of the Spanish Succession, and what
others. I do not deny that there was a certain aesthetic joy in having the Spanish prisoners
there for this effect; we came away duly grateful for what we had seen of them; and we had
long duly resigned ourselves to seeing no more, when word was sent to us that our young skipper
had got a permit to visit the island, and wished us to go with him.

II.

It was just such another afternoon when we went again, but this time we took the joyous trolley-car,
and bounded and pirouetted along as far as the navyyard of Kittery, and there we dismounted
and walked among the vast, ghostly ship-sheds, so long empty of ships. The grass grew in the
Kittery navy-yard, but it was all the pleasanter for the grass, and those pale, silent sheds
were far more impressive in their silence than they would have been if resonant with saw and
hammer. At several points, an unarmed marine left his leisure somewhere, and lunged across
our path with a mute appeal for our permit; but we were nowhere delayed till we came to the
office where it had to be countersigned, and after that we had presently crossed a bridge,
by shady, rustic ways, and were on the prison island. Here, if possible, the sense of something
pastoral deepened; a man driving a file of cows passed before us under kindly trees, and the
bell which the foremost of these milky mothers wore about her silken throat sent forth its
clear, tender note as if from the depth of some grassy bosk, and instantly witched me away
to the woods-pastures which my boyhood knew in southern Ohio. Even when we got to what seemed
fortifications they turned out to be the walls of an old reservoir, and bore on their gate
a paternal warning that children unaccompanied by adults were not allowed within.

We mounted some stone steps over this portal and were met by a young marine, who left his Gatling
gun for a moment to ask for our permit, and then went back satisfied. Then we found ourselves
in the presence of a sentry with a rifle on his shoulder, who was rather more exacting. Still,
he only wished to be convinced, and when he had pointed out the headquarters where we were
next to go, he let us over his beat. At the headquarters there was another sentry, equally
serious, but equally civil, and with the intervention of an orderly our leader saw the officer
of the day. He came out of the quarters looking rather blank, for he had learned that his pass
admitted our party to the lines, but not to the stockade, which we might approach, at a certain
point of vantage and look over into, but not penetrate. We resigned ourselves, as we must,
and made what we could of the nearest prison barrack, whose door overflowed and whose windows
swarmed with swarthy captives. Here they were, at such close quarters that their black, eager
eyes easily pierced the pockets full of cigarettes which we had brought for them. They looked
mostly very young, and there was one smiling rogue at the first window who was obviously prepared
to catch anything thrown to him. He caught, in fact, the first box of cigarettes shied over
the stockade; the next box flew open, and spilled its precious contents outside the dead-line
under the window, where I hope some compassionate guard gathered them up and gave them to the
captives.

Our fellows looked capable of any kindness to their wards short of letting them go. They were
a most friendly company, with an effect of picnicking there among the sweet-fern and blueberries,
where they had pitched their wooden tents with as little disturbance to the shrubbery as possible.
They were very polite to us, and when, after that misadventure with the cigarettes (I had put
our young leader up to throwing the box, merely supplying the corpus delicti myself), I wandered
vaguely towards a Gatling gun planted on an earthen platform where the laurel and the dogroses
had been cut away for it, the man in charge explained with a smile of apology that I must not
pass a certain path I had already crossed.

One always accepts the apologies of a man with a Gatling gun to back them, and I retreated.
That seemed the end; and we were going crestfallenly away when the officer of the day came
out and allowed us to make his acquaintance. He permitted us, with laughing reluctance, to
learn that he had been in the fight at Santiago, and had come with the prisoners, and he was
most obligingly sorry that our permit did not let us into the stockade. I said I had some cigarettes
for the prisoners, and I supposed I might send them; in, but he said he could not allow this,
for they had money to buy tobacco; and he answered another of our party, who had not a soul
above buttons, and who asked if she could get one from the Spaniards, that so far from promoting
her wish, he would have been obliged to take away any buttons she might have got from them.

"The fact is," he explained, "you've come to the wrong end for transactions in buttons and
tobacco."

But perhaps innocence so great as ours had wrought upon him. When we said we were going, and
thanked him for his unavailing good-will, he looked at his watch and said they were just going
to feed the prisoners; and after some parley he suddenly called out, "Music of the guard!"
Instead of a regimental band, which I had supposed summoned, a single corporal ran out the
barracks, touching his cap.

"Take this party round to the gate," the officer said, and he promised us that he would see
us there, and hoped we would not mind a rough walk. We could have answered that to see his
prisoners fed we would wade through fathoms of red-tape; but in fact we were arrested at the
last point by nothing worse than the barbed wire which fortified the outer gate. Here two marines
were willing to tell us how well the prisoners lived, while we stared into the stockade through
an inner gate of plank which was run back for us. They said the Spaniards had a breakfast of
coffee, and hash or stew and potatoes, and a dinner of soup and roast; and now at five o'clock
they were to have bread and coffee, which indeed we saw the white-capped, whitejacketed cooks
bringing out in huge tin wash-boilers. Our marines were of opinion, and no doubt rightly, that
these poor Spaniards had never known in their lives before what it was to have full stomachs.
But the marines said they never acknowledged it, and the one who had a German accent intimated
that gratitude was not a virtue of any Roman (I suppose he meant Latin) people. But I do not
know that if I were a prisoner, for no fault of my own, I should be very explicitly thankful
for being unusually well fed. D.
Gaspar de Silva, a famous poet in the village, both for his verses as tripe, suffered cesarean
delivery of one of these that made him the boy deftly more of Ms Trinidad. Similarly another portion
of respectable neighbors experienced untold inconvenience in that memorable evening for the first
time that a young man sang Mass in the town.

As always, there were bulls for the dead. Privileged site, between the wooden fence and the altar,
not only were the matron and the women who had paid the rush to lend, but others who did not
attend any right, and what is even more worthy of censure, some few men. The new priest was almost
a child's appearance: blue eyes, deep and sad, pearly white complexion like a lady, blond hair,
slim body and slender. The emotion he was now very pale, it made its appearance even more interesting
spiritual. As deacon and subdeacon Asistíanle pastor of rocks and D. Narciso, a chaplain Sarrió loose
from established some years ago in the village.

In the church sounded murmur caused by the whisper of the gossips, who disputed the site or
reported their impressions, the oohs and aahs of discomfort men. The heat was becoming intolerable
at times. D. Peregrin let out trumpet their noses a few snorts like those of the locomotives, and
stood on the toes, unable to learn anything. If only I had the stature of its Brother John!
But this, which very well could have fallen behind, was well accommodated in the sanctuary among the
priests, the mayor and several councilors, which stood in heart a wave of envy you even more
stifling than the knees of giants behind him. Such was his fate. Although considered more intelligent
than his brother, and serve long years of public administration in various provinces of Spain,
and had read the César Cantú Universal History of Spain and Lafuente, without missing a volume,
and possessed the same fortune, retirement more than 2,500 pesetas a year, it is certain that
D. John, without Peñascosa never left or have read in the newspaper life to which he subscribed,
enjoyed far greater prestige in the village. This, by way of D. Peregrin, but not appropriate for
height. Indeed, D. Juan Casanova was tall, dry, aquiline face, large eyes drooping eyelids
and look imposing, venerable bald, short white whiskers and a measured and stately march. These
extraordinary gifts, together talk to a measured and prudent, had captured the respect and even
the veneration of neighbors. So great was the astonishment of their time to the arrival of D.
Peregrin de Andalucía, where he had been employed recently heard him call ignorant and fool
his brother in a discussion with him at the casino was about the tobacco revenue. They lived together,
both single and delivered to the care of Ms Mariquita despotic, housekeeper and sole owner
of their lives and property.

D. Juan, by dint of walking her stern look and majestic on the sea
of ​​heads that stretched from the fence to the gate of the temple,
met with the shiny bald head of the pygmy brother.

Seeing the anguish painted on his face, he hastened to signal nobly to advance, giving the bank
site occupied. But D. Peregrin, perchance noting the impossibility of taking a step, or flushed
with anger, which had been increasing little by little, he replied with a grimace of anger
and contempt that overtook his unfortunate brother completely took away the desire to insist.

-
What is that? - Asked D. Martín de las Casas, who was sitting next to him .-- Do not you want D.
come Peregrin?

- Is that it is impossible. Who breaks the wall of flesh?

- For anyone.

You see how I go there and bring it at once - said D. Martin, Male vigorous and expeditious nature,
ready to rise.
Those good fellows were in the clothes they wore through the fights at Santiago, and they could
not have put on much splendor if they had wished, but apparently they did not wish. They were
simple, straightforward, and adequate. There was some dry joking about the superiority of the
prisoners' rations and lodgings, and our officer ironically professed his intention of messing
with the Spanish officers. But there was no grudge, and not a shadow of ill will, or of that
stupid and atrocious hate towards the public enemy which abominable newspapers and politicians
had tried to breed in the popular mind. There was nothing manifest but a sort of cheerful purpose
to live up to that military ideal of duty which is so much nobler than the civil ideal of self-interest.
Perhaps duty will yet become the civil ideal, when the peoples shall have learned to live for
the common good, and are united for the operation of the industries as they now are for the
hostilities.

IV.

Shall I say that a sense of something domestic, something homelike, imparted itself from what
I had seen? Or was this more properly an effect from our visit, on the way back to the hospital,
where a hundred and fifty of the prisoners lay sick of wounds and fevers? I cannot say that
a humaner spirit prevailed here than in the camp; it was only a more positive humanity which
was at work. Most of the sufferers were stretched on the clean cots of two long, airy, wooden
shells, which received them, four days after the orders for their reception had come, with
every equipment for their comfort. At five o'clock, when we passed down the aisles between
their beds, many of them had a gay, nonchalant effect of having toothpicks or cigarettes in
their mouths; but it was really the thermometers with which the nurses were taking their temperature.
It suggested a possibility to me, however, and I asked if they were allowed to smoke, and being
answered that they did smoke, anyway, whenever they could, I got rid at last of those boxes
of cigarettes which had been burning my pockets, as it were, all afternoon. I gave them to
such as I was told were the most deserving among the sick captives, but Heaven knows I would
as willingly have given them to the least. They took my largesse gravely, as became Spaniards;
one said, smiling sadly, "Muchas gracias," but the others merely smiled sadly; and I looked
in vain for the response which would have twinkled up in the faces of even moribund Italians
at our looks of pity. Italians would have met our sympathy halfway; but these poor fellows
were of another tradition, and in fact not all the Latin peoples are the same, though we sometimes
conveniently group them together for our detestation. Perhaps there are even personal distinctions
among their several nationalities, and there are some Spaniards who are as true and kind as
some Americans. When we remember Cortez let us not forget Las Casas.

They lay in their beds there, these little Spanish men, whose dark faces their sickness could
not blanch to more than a sickly sallow, and as they turned their dull black eyes upon us I
must own that I could not "support the government" so fiercely as I might have done elsewhere.
But the truth is, I was demoralized by the looks of these poor little men, who, in spite of
their character of public enemies, did look so much like somebody's brothers, and even somebody's
children. I may have been infected by the air of compassion, of scientific compassion, which
prevailed in the place. There it was as wholly business to be kind and to cure as in another
branch of the service it was business to be cruel and to kill. How droll these things are!
The surgeons had their favorites among the patients, to all of whom they were equally devoted;
inarticulate friendships had sprung up between them and certain of their hapless foes, whom
they spoke of as "a sort of pets." One of these was very useful in making the mutinous take
their medicine; another was liked apparently because he was so likable. At a certain cot the
chief surgeon stopped and said, "We did not expect this boy to live through the night." He
took the boy's wrist between his thumb and finger, and asked tenderly as he leaned over him,
"Poco mejor?" The boy could not speak to say that he was a little better; he tried to smile--such
things do move the witness; nor does the sight of a man whose bandaged cheek has been half
chopped away by a machete tend to restore one's composure.

