MR. MEESON'S WILL

                          BY H. RIDER HAGGARD

CONTENTS.

       CHAPTER I. AUGUSTA AND HER PUBLISHER

      CHAPTER II. HOW EUSTACE WAS DISINHERITED

     CHAPTER III. AUGUSTA'S LITTLE SISTER

      CHAPTER IV. AUGUSTA'S DECISION

       CHAPTER V. THE R.M.S. KANGAROO

      CHAPTER VI. MR. TOMBEY GOES FORWARD

     CHAPTER VII. THE CATASTROPHE

    CHAPTER VIII. KERGUELEN LAND

      CHAPTER IX. AUGUSTA TO THE RESCUE

       CHAPTER X. THE LAST OF MR. MEESON

      CHAPTER XI. RESCUED

     CHAPTER XII. SOUTHAMPTON QUAY

    CHAPTER XIII. EUSTACE BUYS A PAPER

     CHAPTER XIV. AT HANOVER SQUARE

      CHAPTER XV. EUSTACE CONSULTS A LAWYER

     CHAPTER XVI. SHORT ON LEGAL ETIQUETTE

    CHAPTER XVII. HOW AUGUSTA WAS FILED

   CHAPTER XVIII. AUGUSTA FLIES

     CHAPTER XIX. MEESON v. ADDISON AND ANOTHER

      CHAPTER XX. JAMES BREAKS DOWN

     CHAPTER XXI. GRANT AS PRAYED

    CHAPTER XXII. ST. GEORGE'S, HANOVER-SQUARE

   CHAPTER XXIII. MEESON'S ONCE AGAIN

CHAPTER I.

AUGUSTA AND HER PUBLISHER.

"Now mark you, my masters: this is comedy."--OLD PLAY.

Everybody who has any connection with Birmingham will be acquainted with the vast publishing
establishment still known by the short title of "Meeson's," which is perhaps the most remarkable
institution of the sort in Europe. There are--or rather there were, at the date of the beginning
of this history--three partners in Meeson's--Meeson himself, the managing partner; Mr. Addison,
and Mr. Roscoe--and people in Birmingham used to say that there were others interested in the
affair, for Meeson's was a "company" (limited).

However this may be, Meeson and Co. was undoubtedly a commercial marvel. It employed more than
two thousand hands; and its works, lit throughout with the electric light, cover two acres
and a quarter of land. One hundred commercial travellers, at three pounds a week and a commission,
went forth east and west, and north and south, to sell the books of Meeson (which were largely
religious in their nature) in all lands; and five-and-twenty tame authors (who were illustrated
by thirteen tame artists) sat--at salaries ranging from one to five hundred a year--in vault-like
hutches in the basement, and week by week poured out that hat-work for which Meeson's was justly
famous. Then there were editors and vice-editors, and heads of the various departments, and
sub-heads, and financial secretaries, and readers, and many managers; but what their names
were no man knew, because at Meeson's all the employees of the great house were known by numbers;
personalities and personal responsibility being the abomination of the firm. Nor was it allowed
to anyone having dealings with these items ever to see the same number twice, presumably for
fear lest the number should remember that he was a man and a brother, and his heart should
melt towards the unfortunate, and the financial interests of Meeson's should suffer. In short,
Meeson's was an establishment created for and devoted to money-making, and the fact was kept
studiously and even insolently before the eyes of everybody connected with it--which was, of
course, as it should be, in this happy land of commerce. After all that has been written, the
reader will not be surprised to learn that the partners in Meeson's were rich beyond the dreams
of avarice. Their palaces would have been a wonder even in ancient Babylon, and would have
excited admiration in the corruptest and most luxurious days of Rome. Where could one see such
horses, such carriages, such galleries of sculpture or such collections of costly gems as at
the palatial halls of Messrs. Meeson, Addison, and Roscoe?

"And to think," as the Mighty Meeson himself would say, with a lordly wave of his right hand,
to some astonished wretch of an author whom he has chosen to overwhelm with the sight of this
magnificence, "to think that all this comes out of the brains of chaps like you! Why, young
man, I tell you that if all the money that has been paid to you scribblers since the days of
Elizabeth were added together it would not come up to my little pile; but, mind you, it ain't
so much fiction that has done the trick--it's religion. It's piety as pays, especially when
it's printed."

Then the unsophisticated youth would go away, his heart too full for words, but pondering how
these things were, and by-and-by he would pass into the Meeson melting-pot and learn something
about it.

One day King Meeson sat in his counting house counting out his money, or, at least, looking
over the books of the firm. Yet even in his broad countenance dwelt a something like bright
honesty, less malice than simplicity.

Wherefore, I say, I ordered down my cowardice, and, looking both of them as squarely in the
face as I knew how, passed out of the open into the appalling yard
of this wooden house.

I say "appalling," but without much reason. Perhaps it was the unseemly hugeness of its balks,
the foul piles of skins, the mounds of refuse that lay about within; perhaps the all-pervading
beastly stench, the bareness and filthiness under so glassy-clear and fierce a sun that revolted
me. All man's seemliness and affection for the natural things of earth were absent. Here was
only a brutal and bald order, as of an intelligence like that of
the yellow-locked, swift-footed creature behind me.

Perhaps also it was the mere unfamiliarity of much I saw there that
estranged me.

All lay in neglect, cracked and marred with rough usage,-- coarse strands of a kind of rope,
strips of hide, gaping tubs, a huge and rusty brazier, and in one
corner a great cage, many feet square and surmounted with an iron
ring.

I know not.

I almost desired Sallow at my side, and would to heaven Rosinante's
nose lay in my palm.

Within the house a wood-fire burned in the sun, its smoke ascending
to the roof, and flowing thence through a rude chimney.

A pot steamed over the fire, burdening the air with a savour at first somewhat faint and disgusting,-- perhaps
because it was merely strange to me.

The walls of this lofty room were of rough, substantial timber, bare and weatherproof; the floor
was of the colour of earth, seemingly earth itself. A few rude stools, a bench, and a four-legged
table stood beside the unshuttered window.

And from this stretched the beauteous green of the grass-land or
prairie beyond the stockade.

The house, then, was built on the summit of a gentle mound, and doubtless commanded from its upper
window the extreme reaches of this sea of verdure.

I sat down where Mr. Gulliver directed me, and was not displeased with the warmth of the fire,
despite the sun. I was cold after that long, watery lullaby, and cold too with exhaustion
after running so far at the heels of the creature who had found me.

And I dwelt in a kind of dream on the transparent flames, and watched
vacantly the seething pot, and smelt till slowly appetite returned
the smoke of the stuff that bubbled beneath its lid.

Mr. Gulliver himself brought me my platter of this pottage, and though it tasted of nothing in my
experience-- a kind of sweet, cloying meat-- I was so tired of the fruits to which enterprise had
as yet condemned me, I ate of it hungrily and heartily. Yet not so fast as that the young "Gulliver"
had not finished his before me, and sat at length watching every
mouthful I took from beneath his sun-enticing thatch of hair.

Ever and again he would toss up his chin with a shrill guffaw, or stoop his head till his eyeballs
were almost hidden beneath their thick lashes, so regarding me for
minutes together with a delightful simulation of intelligence, yet
with that peculiar wistful affection his master had himself exhibited
at first sight of me.

But when our meal was done, Mr. Gulliver ordered him about his business. Without a murmur,
with one last, long, brotherly glance at me, he withdrew. And presently after I heard from afar
his high, melancholy "cooee," and the crack of his thong in the afternoon air as he hastened out
to his charges.

My companion did not stir. Only the flames waved silently along the logs. The beam of sunlight
drew across the floor. The crisp air of the pasture flowed through the window. What wonder, then,
that, sitting on my stool, I fell asleep!

VIII If I see all, ye're nine to ane!-- OLD BALLAD.

I was awoke by a sustained sound as of an orator speaking in an unknown
tongue, and found myself in a sunny-shadowy loft, whither I suppose
I must have been carried in my sleep.

In a delicious languor between sleeping and waking I listened with
imperturbable curiosity awhile to that voice of the unknown.

Indeed, I was dozing again when a different sound, enormous, protracted, abruptly aroused me. I
got up, hot and trembling, not yet quite my own master, to discover its cause. Through a narrow
slit between the timbers I could view the country beneath me, far
and wide.

I saw near at hand the cumbrous gate of the stockade ajar, and at a little distance on the farther
side Mr. Gulliver and his half-human servant standing.

In front of them was an empty space-- a narrow semicircle of which
Gulliver was the centre.

And beyond-- wild-eyed, dishevelled, stretching their necks as if to see, inclining their heads as
if to hearken, ranging in multitude almost to the sky's verge-- stood assembled, it seemed to
me, all the horses of the universe. Even in my first sensation of fear admiration irresistibly stirred.
The superb freedom of their unbridled heads, the sun-nurtured arrogance of their eyes, the tumultuous,
sea-like tossing of crest and tail, their keenness and ardour and might,
and also in simple truth their numbers-- how could one marvel if
this solitary fanatic dreamed they heard him and understood?

Unarmed, bareheaded, he faced the brutal discontent of his people. Words I could not distinguish;
but there was little chance of misapprehending the haughty anguish with which he threatened,
pleaded, cajoled. Clear and unfaltering his voice rose and fell.
He dealt out fearlessly, foolishly, to that long-snouted, little-brained,
wild-eyed multitude, reason beyond their instinct, persuasion beyond
their savagery, love beyond their heed.

But even while I listened, one thing I knew those sleek malcontents
heard too-- the Spirit of man in that small voice of his-- perplexed,
perhaps, and perverted, and out of tether; but none the less unconquerable
and sublime.

What less, thought I, than power unearthly could long maintain that stern, impassable barrier of
green vacancy between their hoofs and him? And I suppose for the very reason that these were
beasts of a long-sharpened sagacity, wild-hearted, rebellious, yet not the slaves of impulse, he yet
kept himself their king who was, in fact, their captive. "Houyhnhnms?"

I heard him cry; "pah-- Yahoos!" His voice fell; he stood confronting in silence that vast circumference
of restless beauty. And again broke out inhuman, inarticulate, immeasurable revolt. Far across
over the tossing host, rearing, leaping, craning dishevelled heads,
went pealing and eddying that hostile, brutal voice.

Gulliver lifted his hand, and a tempestuous silence fell once more. "Yahoos! Yahoos!" he bawled
again. Then he turned, and passed back into his hideous garden.

The gate was barred and bolted behind him. Thus loosed and unrestrained, surged
as if the wind drove them, that concourse upon the stockade. Heavy
though its timbers were, they seemed to stoop at the impact.

A kind of fury rose in me. I lusted to go down and face the mutiny of the brutes; bit, and saddle,
and scourge into obedience man's serfs of the centuries.

I watched, on fire, the flame of the declining sun upon those sleek, vehement creatures of the dust.
And then, I know not by what subtle irony, my zeal turned back-- turned back and faded away
into simple longing for my lost friend, my peaceful beast-of-evening,
Rosinante.

I sat down again in the litter of my bed and earnestly wished myself home; wished, indeed, if I
must confess it, for the familiar face of my Aunt Sophia, my books,
my bed.

If these were this land's horses, I thought, what men might here be met! The unsavouriness, the solitude,
the neighing and tumult and prancing induced in me nothing but dulness
at last and disgust.

But at length, dismissing all such folly, at least from my face,
I lifted the trap-door and descended the steep ladder into the room
beneath.

                                               Mr. Gulliver
sat where I had left him. Defeat stared from his eyes.
Lines of insane thought disfigured
his face. Yet he sat, stubborn and upright, heedless
                                             of the uproar,
                                             heedless even
                                             that the
                                               late
beams of the sun had found him out in his last desolation.
So I too sat down without
speech, and waited till he should come up out of his
                                             gloom, and find
                                             a friend in
                                             a stranger.
But day waned; the sunlight went out of the great wooden
room; the tumult diminished; and finally silence and evening shadow
descended on the beleaguered house. And I was looking out of the darkened
window at a star that had risen and stood shining in the sky, when
I was startled by a voice so low and so different from any I had yet
heard that I turned to convince myself it was indeed Mr. Gulliver's.
"And the people of the Yahoos, Traveller," he said, "do they still
lie, and flatter, and bribe, and spill blood, and lust, and covet?

Are there yet in the country whence you come the breadless bellies,
the sores and rags and lamentations of the poor?

Ay, Yahoo, and do vicious men rule, and attain riches; and impious women pomp and flattery?--
hypocrites, pandars, envious, treacherous, proud?"

He stared with desolate sorrow and wrath into my eyes. Words in disorder
flocked to my tongue. I grew hot and eager, yet by some instinct
held my peace.

The fluttering of the dying flames, the starry darkness, silence itself; what were we who sat together?
Transient shadows both, phantom, unfathomable, mysterious as these. I fancied he might speak
again. Once he started, raised his arm, and cried out as if acting again in dream some frenzy of
the past. And once he wheeled on me extraordinary eyes, as if he
half-recognised some idol of the irrevocable in my face.

These were momentary, however. Gloom returned to his forehead, vacancy to his eyes. I heard the outer
gate flung open, and a light, strange footfall. So we seated ourselves, all three, for a while
round the smouldering fire. Mr. Gulliver's servant scarcely took his eyes from my face. And,
a little to my confusion, his first astonishment of me had now passed away, and in its stead had
fallen such a gentleness and humour as I should not have supposed
possible in his wild countenance.

He busied himself over his strips of skin, but if he caught my eye
upon his own he would smile out broadly, and nod his great, hairy
head at me, till I fancied myself a child again and he some vast sweetheart
of my nurse.

When we had supped (sitting together in the great room), I climbed
the ladder into the loft and was soon fast asleep.

But from dreams distracted with confusion I awoke at the first shafts of dawn. I stood beside the narrow
window in the wall of the loft and watched the distant river change
to silver, the bright green of the grass appear.

This
seemed a place of few and timorous birds, and of fewer trees.

But all across the dews of the grasses lay a tinge of powdered gold,
as if yellow flowers were blooming in abundance there.

I saw no horses, no sign of life; heard no sound but the cadent
wail of the ash-grey birds in their flights.

And when I turned my eyes nearer home, and compared the distant beauty
of the forests and their radiant clouds with the nakedness and desolation
here, I gave up looking from the window with a determination to be
gone as soon as possible from a country so uncongenial.

Moreover, Mr. Gulliver, it appeared, had returned during the night to
his first mistrust of my company.

He made no sign he saw me, and left his uncouth servant to attend on me. For him, indeed, I began to
feel a kind of affection springing up; he seemed so eager to befriend
me.

And
whose is the heart quite hardened against a simple admiration? I rose very gladly when, after having
stuffed a wallet with food, he signed to me to follow him. I turned to Mr. Gulliver and held
out my hand. "I wish, sir, I might induce you to accompany me," I said. "Some day we would win
our way back to the country we have abandoned. I have known and loved your name, sir, since first
I browsed on pictures-- Being measured for your first coat in Lilliput by the little tailors:--
Straddling the pinnacled city. Ay, sir, and when the farmers picked
you up'twixt finger and thumb from among their cornstalks...." I had talked
on in hope to see his face relax; but he made no sign he saw or heard
me.

I very speedily dropped my hand and went out. But when my guide and
I had advanced about thirty yards from the stockade, I cast a glance
over my shoulder towards the house that had given me shelter.

It rose, sad-coloured and solitary, between the green and blue. But,
if it was not fancy, Mr. Gulliver stood looking down on me from the
very window whence I had looked down on him.

And there I do not doubt he stayed till his fellow-yahoo had passed across his inhospitable lands
out of his sight for ever.

I was glad to be gone, and did not, at first, realise that the least
danger lay before us.

But soon, observing the extraordinary vigilance and caution my companion showed, I began to watch
and hearken, too.

Evidently our departure had not passed unseen. Far away to left and
to right of us I descried at whiles now a few, now many, swift-moving
shapes.

But whether they were advancing with us, or gathering behind us, in hope to catch their tyrant
alone and unaware, I could not properly distinguish. Once, for a cause not apparent to me, my
guide raised himself to his full height, and, thrusting back his
head, uttered a most piercing cry.

After that, however, we saw no more for a while of the beasts that haunted our journey. All
morning, till the sun was high, and the air athrob with heat and stretched
like a great fiddlestring to a continuous, shrill vibration, we went
steadily forward.

And when at last I was faint with heat and thirst, my companion lifted
me up like a child on to his back and set off again at his great,
easy stride.

It was useless to protest. I merely buried my hands in his yellow hair to keep my balance in
such a camel-like motion. A little after noon we stayed to rest by a shallow brook, beneath a cluster
of trees scented, though not in blossom, like an English hawthorn.

There we ate our meal, or rather I ate and my companion watched, running out ever and again for
a wider survey, and returning to me like a faithful dog, to shout snatches of his inconceivable
language at me. Sometimes I seemed to catch his meaning, bidding me take courage, have no fear, he
would protect me. And once he shaded his eyes and pointed afar with extreme perturbation, whining
or murmuring while he stared.

Again we set off from beneath the sweet-scented shade, and now no doubt remained that I was the
object of very hostile evolutions. Sometimes these smooth-hooved battalions would advance, cloudlike,
to within fifty yards of us, and, snorting, ruffle their manes and wheel swiftly away; only once
more in turn to advance, and stand, with heads exalted, gazing wildly on us till we were passed
on a little. But my guide gave them very little heed. Did they pause a moment too long in our path,
or gallop down on us but a stretch or two beyond the limit his instinct
had set for my safety, he whirled his thong above his head, and his
yell resounded, and like a shadow upon wheat the furious companies
melted away.

Evidently these were not the foes he looked for, but a subtler, a more indomitable. It was at last,
I conjectured, at scent, or sight, or rumour of these that he suddenly
swept me on to his shoulders again, and with a great sneeze or bellow
leapt off at a speed he had, as yet, given me no hint of.

Looking back as best I could, I began to discern somewhat to the
left of us a numerous herd in pursuit, sorrel in colour, and of a
more magnificent aspect than those forming the other bands.

It was obvious, too, despite their plunging and rearing, that they were gaining on us-- drew,
indeed, so near at last that I could count the foremost of them, and mark (not quite callously)
their power and fleetness and symmetry, even the sun's gold upon
their reddish skins.

Then in a flash my captor set me down, toppled me over (in plain words) into the thick herbage,
and, turning, rushed bellowing, undeviating towards their leaders, till it seemed he must inevitably
be borne down beneath their brute weight, and so-- farewell to summer.
 I shall be devilish glad to get out of this place, I can tell you. All
this chickery and pokery makes me sick. The place stinks and reeks of sharp practice and money-making--money-making
by fair means or foul."

The elder man had, up till now, at all events to outward appearance, kept his temper; but this
last flower of vigorous English was altogether too much for one whom the possession of so much
money had for many years shielded from hearing unpleasant truths put roughly. The man's face
grew like a devil's, his thick eyebrows contracted themselves, and his pale lips quivered with
fury. For a few seconds he could not speak, so great was his emotion. When, at length, he did,
his voice was as thick and laden with rage as a dense mist is with rain.

"You impudent young rascal!" he began, "you ungrateful foundling! Do you suppose that when
my brother left you to starve--which was all that you were fit for--I picked you out of the
gutter for this: that you should have the insolence to come and tell me how to conduct my business?
Now, young man, I'll just tell you what it is. You can be off and conduct a business of your
own on whatever principles you choose. Get out of Meeson's, Sir; and never dare to show your
nose here again, or I'll give the porters orders to hustle you off the premises! And, now,
that isn't all. I've done with you, never you look to me for another sixpence! I'm not going
to support you any longer, I can tell you. And, what's more, do you know what I'm going to
do just, now? I'm going off to old Todd--that's my lawyer--and I'm going to tell him to make
another will and to leave every farthing I have--and that isn't much short of two millions,
one way and another--to Addison and Roscoe. They don't want it, but that don't matter. You
shan't have it--no, not a farthing of it; and I won't have a pile like that frittered away
in charities and mismanagement. There now, my fine young gentleman, just be off and see if
your new business principles will get you a living."

"All right, uncle; I'm going," said the young man, quietly. "I quite understand what our quarrel
means for me, and, to tell you the truth, I am not sorry. I have never wished to be dependent
on you, or to have anything to do with a business carried on as Meeson's is. I have a hundred
a year my mother left me, and with the help of that and my education, I hope to make a living.
Still, I don't want to part from you in anger, because you have been very kind to me at times,
and, as you remind me, you picked me out of the gutter when I was orphaned or not far from
it. So I hope you will shake hands before I go."

"Ah!" snarled his uncle; "you want to pipe down now, do you? But that won't do. Off you go!
and mind you don't set foot in Pompadour Hall," Mr. Meeson's seat, "unless it is to get your
clothes. Come, cut!"

"You misunderstand me," said Eustace, with a touch of native dignity which became him very
well. "Probably we shall not meet again, and I did not wish to part in anger, that was all.
Good morning." And he bowed and left the office.

"Confound him!" muttered his uncle as the door closed, "he's a good plucked one--showed spirit.
But I'll show spirit, too. Meeson is a man of his word. Cut him off with a shilling? not I;
cut him off with nothing at all. And yet, curse it, I like the lad. Well, I've done with him,
thanks to that minx of a Smithers girl. Perhaps he's sweet on her? then they can go and starve
together, and be hanged to them! She had better keep out of my way, for she shall smart for
this, so sure as my name is Jonathan Meeson. I'll keep her up to the letter of that agreement,
and, if she tries to publish a book inside of this country or out of it, I'll crush her--yes,
I'll crush her, if it cost me five thousand to do it!" and, with a snarl, he dropped his fist
heavily upon the table before him.

Then he rose, put poor Augusta's agreement carefully back into the safe, which he shut with
a savage snap, and proceeded to visit the various departments of his vast establishment, and
to make such hay therein as had never before been dreamt of in the classic halls of Meeson's.

To this hour the clerks of the great house talk of that dreadful day with bated breath--for
as bloody Hector raged through the Greeks, so did the great Meeson rage through his hundred
departments. In the very first office he caught a wretched clerk eating sardine sandwiches.
Without a moment's hesitation he took the sandwiches and threw them through the window.

"Do you suppose I pay you to come and eat your filthy sandwiches here?" he asked savagely.
"There, now you can go and look for them; and see you here: you needn't trouble to come back,
you idle, worthless fellow. Off you go! and remember you need not send to me for a character.
Now then--double quick!"

The unfortunate departed, feebly remonstrating, and Meeson, having glared around at the other
clerks and warned them that unless they were careful--very careful--they would soon follow
in his tracks, continued his course of devastation. 

CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE MUSEUM OF HISTORY AND TECHNOLOGY: PAPER 7 MINE
PUMPING IN AGRICOLA'S TIME AND LATER Robert P. Multhauf By Robert
P. Multhauf MINE PUMPING IN AGRICOLA'S TIME AND LATER Coins are a
source of information much used by historians.

Elaborately detailed mining landscapes on 16th-century German coins
in the National Museum, discovered by the curator of numismatics and
brought to the author's attention, led to this study of early mine-pumping
devices.

The habit of heavy reliance on a single source for the substance
of the history of Medieval and Renaissance mining techniques in Europe
has led to a rather drastic over-simplification of that history, a
condition which persists tenaciously in the recent accounts of Parsons,
Wolf, and Bromehead.

[1] Our preoccupation with Agricola, who has been well known to the
English-language public since the Hoovers'translation of 1912, seems
to have inhibited the investigation of the development of the machines
he describes so elegantly.

More seriously, the opinion that mining techniques remained essentially
the same for a century or two beyond his time appears to have hardened
into a conviction.

[2] The history of the technology of mining, as distinguished from metallurgy, is largely a history
of mechanization, and that mechanization has until the last century
consisted principally in the development of what Agricola calls tractoriae--
hauling machines.

That hauling machines of some complexity, Archimedian screws and a
kind of noria, were used by the Romans for dewatering mines has been
known for some time. Evidence of the survival of this technology beyond
the fall of Rome remains to be found, and it is generally agreed that mining
activity declined through the first millenium. The revival and extension
of mining in the central European areas of German settlement is thought
to have occurred from the 10th century, with an intensive development
of the region known to Agricola (Erzgebirge) in the 13th century.

[3] This revival appears to have paralleled in general the political and cultural revival, but, as in
any mining region, the exhaustion of easily workable surface deposits
marked a critical point, when the necessity of deeper mining led to
the construction of supported tunnels and the introduction of machinery
for removing ores and water from deep mines.

On the basis of revisions of capital structure and mining law which he regards as inspired by the
financial necessities of deep mining, Bechtel dates this development
from the mid-14th century. [4] The mid-14th century situation is confused by the occurrence
of the Black Death, which reduced mining activity drastically, and
the events of which Bechtel speaks have been put as much as a century
later.

[5] In any case, the development of deep-mining methods had clearly
made considerable progress in nonferrous mines when the De re metallica
was written, in 1556.

MINE-PUMPING MACHINERY ILLUSTRATED BY BRUNSWICK MULTIPLE TALERS These large silver coins weighing
up to 15 ounces were first issued in 1574 in Brunswick by Duke Julius
(1568-1589) of the Wolfenbuttel line.

Their historical background is rather unusual and interesting. In
1570 the Duke decided to increase the output of his silver mines in the
Harz and arranged for the opening of three new mines. In order to insure the
retention of a portion of this increased silver output under his
control, the Duke decided to issue an entirely new kind of silver
coin which he called "Loeser," meaning redeemer.

These were larger than taler-size pieces,
and were struck in denominations from 1-1/ 4 to 16 talers. The Duke
ordered that each of his subjects was to purchase one of these large
coins, the size of the coin to be acquired depending on the individual's wealth.
The owners were not allowed to use these pieces in everyday trade,
but could pawn them in case of dire need.

They were expected to produce them at any time upon demand. Thus a
means of hoarding, a "treasure piece," was created, and the risk of
draining the country's wealth through replacement of good, full-weight silver
coins with imported base currency was to some extent limited. At the
same time, the Duke had a considerable sum of money at his disposal
in case of emergency. Similar Loesers were issued up to 1688 by different
rulers of Brunswick. Some of the later issues are commemorative in character
and might have served for presentation purposes. The workmanship of
the majority is exquisite.

They portray personages real and ideal and ornate coats of arms,
in addition to the elaborate mining landscapes shown here.

The U. S. National Museum is fortunate in having a number of examples through the generosity
of Mr. Paul A. Straub. For calling my attention to these coins, and for other invaluable assistance,
I am indebted to the former curator of the numismatic collections
of the U. S. National Museum, the late Stuart Mosher, and to the present
curator, Dr. V. Clain-Stefanelli.

Figure 1 shows an overshot waterwheel driving through Stangenkunsten pumps in three separate
shafts, each covered by the typical conical shaft house. It is possible that these shaft houses also
cover horse whims used to operate bucket hoists such as that shown in
the lower center. A house with three chimneys in the background may
be the smelter.

The horse over whose head the Deity holds a wreath is a symbol of Luneberg. For a detailed
description of the mechanical equipment of this era we are largely indebted to Agricola. He
classifies hauling machines into four types; the ordinary bucket windlass, the piston (suction) pump,
the chain of dippers, and the rag and chain pump. Although the first
three had been known in antiquity, and the last perhaps a century
before his time, [6] their use in mining would appear to date from
the mid-14th century or later.

His is not an historical account, and one who attempts to compare it with others of contemporary
or later times encounters a difficulty in his use of descriptive Latin names rather than
the common German names used by most others. English and German editors have interpreted
them as follows: [7] Latin English German bulga water bucket Wasserkubel,
Kehrrad orbiculis suction pump Pumpe situlis chain of dippers Kannen
(werke), Bulgenkunst [8] machina, quae pilis rag and chain Heinzenkunst,
Taschenkunst [9] aquas hauriut pump Figure 2 shows two shaft-houses
covering pumps driven by Stangenkunsten.

The source of power, hidden by the curious "log cabin" at the right,
was probably a waterwheel.

I have not found evidence that the Stangenkunst was used to operate bucket hoists, as appears
to be the case here.

It will be noticed that the above and below ground portions of these illustrations do not correlate
precisely. This coin, like the others, shows miners doing various things
familiar from Agricola-- divining, digging, carrying, and operating
windlasses.

Figure 3 exhibits the principal advantage of the Stangenkunst, in its utilization to connect
a waterwheel located in a valley stream to driven machinery on the
mountain some distance above.

The lute-playing girl (Lautenspielerin) refers to the Lautental mine. A Stangenkunst (fig. 7)
existed here as recently as 1930. The mines shown in figures 1-3 are in
the Harz region. Figures 4 and 5 show the St. Anna mine in the Erzgebirge,
near Freiberg, as illustrated on a medal in the Brunswick museum.

Prominent in figure 4 is an aqueduct, one function of which is to supply a waterwheel in the house below,
which in turn delivers power through the Stangenkunst to two open shafts. The reverse (fig.
5), an unusually fine view of the inner workings of a mine, shows, above ground, a typical horse
whim driving a bucket windlass. Below ground is shown a crank-driven piston pump typical of those
driven by Stangenkunst.

In this case, however, it is driven by an underground vertical treadmill. The resemblance of
the German term for bag (Bulge) to the Latin term for bucket (bulga) instead of the Latin term
for bag (canalis), and the presence of buckets (Kübeln), bags (Bulgen),
pockets (Taschen), or cans (Kannen) as components of three of Agricola's
four categories of hauling machines are reasons enough for the apparent
superfluity of German names, if not for his decision to avoid the
use of German names.

But it should also be noted that the names sometimes refer to a pump and its prime mover considered
as a single machine. Such is the case with the Kehrrad, a bucket windlass
driven by a reversible waterwheel which Agricola describes as his
largest hauling machine.

[10] Agricola describes 23 hauling devices of these four types, the
diversity resulting generally from the application of three types of
prime movers, men, horses, and waterwheels, and in the endowment of
each in turn with a mechanical advantage in the form of gearing.

[11] Although he does not specify clearly the relative importance
of the various pumps, the majority (13) use man as the prime mover.

He speaks of the advantages of some, noting that the horse whim has a
power two and a half times that of the man windlass, and emphasizing the even
greater power available in flowing water "when a running stream can be
diverted to a mine."

The most powerful machine then in use for deep mines
appears to have been the horse-powered rag and chain pump.

Such, then, were the important mining machines of this early period of deep mining, according to
the leading authority. But did they continue, as has been claimed,
to be the only important machines of the subsequent century?

G. E. Lohneyss, [12] writing a little over a half century after the
publication of De re metallica, declared: The old miners [alten Bergleute]
had Heintzen, Kerratt, Bulgenkunst, Taschen-kunst, Pumpen, with which
one lifted water with cans on pulleys or with a treadmill; and they
devised and constructed these in which the poor people moved like
cattle and wore themselves out.

At that time they had powerful machines (Kunst) using swift water, although it cost much to erect
and maintain them, and was very dangerous since an iron chain of
a Bulgenkunst alone often weighed 200 centner [over 10 tons] and
more.

But today's artisan [jetzigen Künstler] far surpasses the old... since we have in the present
time invented many other mining machines; such as the Stangenkunst
mit dem krummen Zapffen, which raises water at small cost over 100
Lachter [562 feet].

The Stangenkunst, which can be roughly translated as "rod work with crank," was a piston pump
driven through a crank and rods by a prime mover located at a distant
point.

Agricola describes a crank-driven piston pump, calling it a new machine
invented ten years earlier.

       

[13] But it is not driven bya distant prime mover. Like his other water-powered hauling machines it
can only be used "when a running stream can be diverted to a mine." So far as we can determine from
internal evidence, Agricola did not know the Stangenkunst. Although the full development of the
Stangenkunst came later, it was apparently introduced in Agricola's time. Its introduction
to the Erzgebirge has been put as early as 1550. [14] According to another authority it was introduced to
the Harz in 1565 by one Heinrich Eschenbach of Meissen.

[15] Its significance is only made clear to us by later authorities.

As shown in figure 3 it was adapted to the utilization of a distant
stream, through the Feldstangen, an extended horizontal series of reciprocating
rods, and the Kunstkreuz (fig. 6), a lever in the shape of a cross
for changing at right angles the direction of power transmission. These
improvements may have been almost contemporaneous with Agricola, as
Calvör mentions the use of the Feldkunst, which term signified the
extended rods, as having been known in 1565.

The disadvantage of moving the weight of a long extension of rods was
obviated, during the 17th century, through the use of a double set
of balanced rods, resembling a pantograph.

At some later date the horse whim was fitted with a crank and adapted
to the Stangenkunst, [16] thus permitting the establishment of a veritable
power network, as suggested in figure 1.

The Freiberg mine director Martin Planer reported in
1570 the installation since 1557 of thirty-eight "Kunsten und Zeugen"
in mines under his charge. That these were water-powered machines is clear
from his remark that their cost was only 10 to 20 percent that of "Pferden
und Knechten." [17] It is likely that many if not most were Stangenkunsten,
for mining treatises of the 17th and 18th centuries testify to the
continuous extension of this mechanism.

[18] Perhaps the most striking evidence of its importance is its representation
on the illustrated coinage of the 17th century. These multiple talers
(figs. 1, 2, 3), happy products of the ingenious fiscal policies
of the Dukes of Brunswick, picture mining activity in the 17th century
no less elegantly than do the woodcuts of De re metallica a century
earlier.

The Stangenkunst received its most spectacular application in France,
in its application to the driving of the second-and third-stage pumps
in the famous waterworks at Marly (1681-88), but its real importance
is better illustrated in central Europe, by the many descriptions
and drawings showing its use in the mines, driving machinery as distant
as a mile [19] from the source of power.

It seems, therefore, that Lohneyss'"old miners" were those described
by Agricola, and that the mine-hauling machinery used in central
European mines changed in the century after him far more than has
been recognized.

[20] This thesis may further cast some light on other technological
questions.

The connection between the urgency of the problem of mine drainage
in England, and the invention of the steam engine, has often been
suggested.

[21] Perhaps the "backwardness"
of Germany in steam-engine experimentation, and later in the introduction
of the Newcomen engine, was to some extent due to the adequacy of existing
machinery to meet the problem of mine flooding, for it is not clear
that this problem existed on the continent.

[22] A comparison of the techniques described by Agricola with those
of a century later suggests that this was a century of significant progress
in that earlier industrial revolution described by Mumford as his "Eotechnic
phase," characterized by "the diminished use of human beings as prime
movers, and the separation of the production of energy from its application
and immediate control."

[23] Footnotes: [1] W. B. Parsons, Engineers and engineering in the
Renaissance, Baltimore, 1939. Abraham Wolf, A history of science, technology,
and philosophy in the 16th and 17th centuries, New York, 1935; and A
history of science, technology and philosophy in the eighteenth century,
London, 1938.

C. M. Bromehead, "Mining and quarrying to the seventeenth century," in Charles Singer and others, A
history of technology, vol. 2, Oxford, 1956. [2] According to Parsons (op. cit., footnote 1, p. 629) the
introduction of machinery worked by animals and falling water, "radical improvements" of the 15th
century, fixed the development of the art "until the eighteenth, and, in some respects, even well into
the nineteenth century." Wolf in his History of science... in the eighteenth century (p. 629,
see footnote 1) agrees, saying that "apart from [the steam engine]
mining methods remained [during the 18th century] essentially similar
to those described in Agricola's De re metallica."

Bromehead (op. cit., footnote 1, p. 22), in referring to the date 1673 also sees "no appreciable
change in methods of mining since Agricola."
She entered very quietly, for the maid-of-all-work had met her in the passage and told her
that Miss Jeannie was asleep. She had been coughing very much about dinner-time, but now she
was asleep.

There was a fire in the grate, a small one, for the coal was economised by means of two large
fire-bricks, and on a table (Augusta's writing table), placed at the further side of the room,
was a paraffin-lamp turned low. Drawn up in front, but a little to one side of the fire, was
a sofa, covered with red rep, and on the sofa lay a fair-haired little form, so thin and fragile
that it looked like the ghost or outline of a girl, rather than a girl herself. It was Jeannie,
her sick sister, and she was asleep. Augusta stole softly up to look at her. It was a sweet
little face that her eyes fell on, although it was so shockingly thin, with long, curved lashes,
delicate nostrils, and a mouth shaped like a bow. All the lines and grooves which the chisel
of Pain knows so well how to carve were smoothed out of it now, and in their place lay the
shadow of a smile.

Augusta looked at her and clenched her fists, while a lump rose in her throat, and her grey
eyes filled with tears. How could she get the money to save her? The year before a rich man,
a man who was detestable to her, had wanted to marry her, and she would have nothing to say
to him. He had gone abroad, else she would have gone back to him and married him--at a price.
Marry him? yes she would marry him: she would do anything for money to take her sister away! The
land of Tragedy was broad.

And though on this side it lay adjacent to the naïve and civil people
of Comedy; on the further, in the shadow of those bleak, unfooted
mountains, lurked unnatural horror and desolation, and cruelty beyond
all telling.

He very kindly offered me too, if I was indeed bent on seeking the sea, an old boat, still seaworthy,
that lay in a creek in the river near by, from which he was wont
to fish.

As for Rosinante, he supposed a rest would be by no means unwelcome to so faithful a friend.
He himself rode little, being indolent, and a happier host than guest;
and when I returned here, she should be stuffed with dainties awaiting
me.

To this I cordially and gratefully agreed; and also even more cordially
to remain with him the next day; and the next night after that to
take my watery departure.

So it was. And a courteous, versatile, and vivacious companion I found him. Rare tales he told
me, too, of better days than these, and rarest of his own never-more-returning youth. He loved
his childhood, talked on of it with an artless zeal, his eyes a nest of singing-birds. How
contrite he was for spirit lost, and daring withheld, and hope discomfited! How simple and urbane
concerning his present lowly demands on life, on love, and on futurity! All this, too, with
such packed winks and mirth and mourning, that I truly said good-night for the second time to him
with a rather melancholy warmth, since to-morrow... who can face unmoved that viewless sphinx?
Moreover, the sea is wide, has fishes in plenty, but never too many
coraled grottoes once poor mariners.

XV'Tis now full tide'tween night and day.-- JOHN WEBSTER.

On the stroke of two next morning the doctor conducted me down to
the creek in the river-bank where he kept his boat.

There was little light but of the stars in the sky; nothing stirring.

She floated dim and monstrous on the softly-running water, a navy in germ, and could have sat
without danger thirty men like me. We stood on the bank, side by side, eyeing her vacancy. And
(I can answer for myself) night-thoughts rose up in us at sight of her. Was it indeed only
wind in the reeds that sighed around us? only the restless water insistently whispering and calling?
only of darkness were these forbidding shadows? I looked up sharply at the doctor from such pensive
embroidery, and found him as far away as I. He nodded and smiled, and we shook hands on the bank in
the thick mist.

"There's biscuits and a little meat, wine, and fruit," he said in an undertone. "God be with
you, sir! I sadly mistrust the future....'Tis ever my way, at parting."

We said good-bye again, to the dream-cry of some little fluttering creature of the rushes. And well
before dawn I was floating midstream, my friend a memory, Rosinante
in clover, and my travels, so far as this brief narrative will tell,
nearly ended.

I saw nothing but a few long-haired, grazing cattle on my voyage, that eyed me but cursorily.
I passed unmolested among the waterfowl, between the never-silent rushes, beneath a sky refreshed
and sweetened with storm. The boat was enormously heavy and made
slow progress.

When too the tide began to flow I must needs push close in to the bank and await the ebb. But
towards evening of the third day I began to approach the sea. I listened to the wailing of its long-winged
gulls; snuffed with how broad-nostrilled a gusto that savour not even pinewoods can match, nor
any wild flower disguise; and heard at last the sound that stirs beneath all music-- the deep's
loud-falling billow.

I pushed ashore, climbed the sandy bank, and moored my boat to an ash tree at the waterside.
And after scrambling some little distance over dunes yet warm with the sun, I came out at length,
and stood like a Greek before the sea. Here my bright river disembogued
in noise and foam.

Far to either side of me stretched the faint gold horns of a bay; and beyond me, almost violet in
the shadow of its waves, the shipless sea. I looked on the breaking
water with a divided heart.

Its light, salt airs, its solitary beauty, its illimitable reaches seemed tidings of a region I
could remember only as one who, remembering that he has dreamed, remembers
nothing more.

Larks rose, singing, behind me.

In a calm, golden light my eager river quarrelled with its peace. Here indeed was solitude! It
was in searching sea and cliff for the least sign of life that I thought I descried on the furthest
extremity of the nearer of the horns of the bay the spires and smouldering domes of a little
city.

If I gazed intently, they seemed to vanish away, yet still to shine above the azure if, raising
my eyes, I looked again. So, caring not how far I must go so long as my path lay beside these
breaking waters, I set out on the firm, white sands to prove this
city the mirage I deemed it.

What wonder, then, my senses fell asleep in that vast lullaby! And out of a daydream almost as
deep as that in which I first set out, I was suddenly aroused by
a light tapping sound, distinct and regular between the roaring breakers.

I lifted my eyes to find the city I was seeking evanished away indeed. But nearer at hand a
child was playing upon the beach, whose spade among the pebbles had
caused the birdlike noise I had heard.

So engrossed was she with her building in the sand that she had not heard me approaching. She
laboured on at the margin of the cliff's shadow where the sea-birds cried, answering Echo in the
rocks.

So solitary and yet so intent, so sedate and yet so eager a little figure she seemed in the long
motionlessness of the shore, by the dark heedlessness of the sea, I hesitated to disturb her.
Who of all Time's children could this be playing uncompanioned by
the sea?

And at a little distance betwixt me and her in the softly-mounded sand her spade had already
scrawled in large, ungainly capitals, the answer-- "Annabel Lee." The little flounced black
frock, the tresses of black hair, the small, beautiful dark face-- this then was Annabel Lee;
and that bright, phantom city I had seen-- that was the vanishing mockery of her kingdom. I called
her from where I stood-- "Annabel Lee!"

She lifted her head and shook back her hair, and gazed at me startled and intent. I went nearer. "You
are a very lonely little girl," I said. "I am building in the sand," she answered. "A castle?"
She shook her head. "It was in dreams," she said, flushing darkly. "What kind of dream was
it in then?" "Oh! I often dream it; and I build it in the sand. But there's never time: the sea
comes back." "Was the tide quite high when you began?"

I asked; for now it was low. "Just that much from the stones," she said; "I waited for it ever
so long."

"It has a long way to come yet," I said; "you will finish it this
time, I dare say."

She shook her head and lifted her spade.

"Oh no; it is much bigger, more than twice.

And I haven't the seaweed, or the shells, and it comes back very,
very quickly."

"But where is the little boy you play with down here by the sea?"

She glanced at me swiftly and surely; and shook her head again.

"He would help you." "He didn't in my dream," she said doubtfully.

She raised long, stealthy eyes to mine, and spoke softly and deliberately.

"Besides, there isn't any little boy." "None, Annabel Lee?" I said.

"Why," she answered, "I have played here years and years and years,
and there are only the gulls and terns and cormorants, and that!"

She pointed with her spade towards the broken water. "You know all
their names then?"

I said.

"Some I know," she answered with a little frown, and looked far out to sea. Then, turning her
eyes, she gazed long at me, searchingly, forlornly on a stranger.

"I am going home now," she said. I looked at the house of sand and
smiled.

But she shook her head once more.

"It never could be finished," she said firmly, "though I tried and
tried, unless the sea would keep quite still just once all day, without
going to and fro.

And then," she added with a flash of anger-- "then I would not build." "Well," said I, "when it
is nearly finished, and the water washes up, and up, and washes it
away, here is a flower that came from Fairyland.

And that, dear heart, is none so far away."

She took the purple flower I had plucked in Ennui's garden in her slim, cold hand. "It's amaranth,"
she said; and I have never seen so old a little look in a child's
eyes.

"And all the flowers'names too?" I said. She frowned again.

"It's amaranth," she said, and ran off lightly and so deftly among
the rocks and in the shadow that was advancing now even upon the foam
of the sea, that she had vanished before I had time to deter, or to
pursue her.

I sought her awhile, until the dark rack of sunset obscured the light, and the sea's voice changed;
then I desisted. It was useless to remain longer beneath the looming caves, among the stones
of so inhospitable a shore.

I was a stranger to the tides. And it was clear high-water would
submerge the narrow sands whereon I stood.

Yet I cannot describe how loth I was to leave to night's desolation the shapeless house of a child.
What fate was this that had set her to such profitless labour on
the uttermost shores of "Tragedy"?

What history lay behind, past, or, as it were, never to come?

What gladness too high for earth had nearly once been hers? Her sea-mound took strange shapes in
the gloom-- light foliage of stone, dark heaviness of granite, wherein
rumour played of all that restless rustling; small cries, vast murmurings
from those green meadows, old as night.

I turned, even ran away, at last. I found my boat in the gloaming
where I had left her, safe and sound, except that all the doctor's
good things had been nosed and tumbled by some hungry beast in my
absence.

I stood and thought vacantly of Crusoe, and pig, and guns. But what use
to delay? I got in.

If it were true, as the excellent doctor had informed me, that seamen
reported islands not far distant from these shores, chance might bear
me blissfully to one of these.

And if not true... I turned a rather startled face to the water,
and made haste not to think.

Fortune pierces deep, and baits her hooks with sceptics. Away I went, bobbing mightily over the
waves that leapt and wrestled where sea and river met. These safely
navigated, I rowed the great creature straight forward across the sea,
my face towards dwindling land, my prow to Scorpio.

XVI Art thou pale for weariness.-- PERCY BYSSHE SHELLEY. The constellations of summer wheeled above
me; and thus between water and starry sky I tossed solitary in my
boat.

The faint lustre of the sultry night hung like a mist from heaven to earth. Far away above the
countries I had left perhaps for ever, the quiet lightnings played
innocently in the heights.

I rowed steadily on, guiding myself by some much ruddier star on the
horizon.

The pale phosphorescence on the wave, the simple sounds as of fish stirring in the water-- the beauty
and wonder of Night's dwelling-place seemed beyond content of mortality. I leaned on my oars in the
midst of the deep sea, and seemed to hear, as it were, the mighty shout of Space. Faint and enormous
beams of light trembled through the sky. And once I surprised a shadow as of wings sweeping darkly
across, star on to glittering star, shaking the air, stilling the sea with the cold dews of
night. So rowing, so resting, I passed the mark of midnight.

Weariness began to steal over me. Between sleep and wake I heard strange cries across the deep.
The thin silver of the old moon ebbed into the east. A chill mist
welled out of the water and shrouded me in faintest gloom.

Wherefore, battling no more against such influences, I shipped my
oars, made my prayer in the midst of this dark womb of Life, and screening
myself as best I could from the airs that soon would be moving before
dawn, I lay down in the bottom of the boat and fell asleep.

I
slept apparently without dream, and woke as it seemed to the sound of voices singing some old
music of the sea. A scent of a fragrance unknown to me was eddying in the wind. I raised my head,
and saw with eyes half-dazed with light an island of cypress and poplar, green and still above
the pure glass of its encircling waters. Straight before me, beyond green-bearded rocks dripping
with foam, a little stone house, or temple, with columns and balconies of marble, stood hushed upon
the cliff by the waterside. All now was soundless.

They that sang, whether Nereids or Sirens, had descended to dimmer
courts.

The seamews floated on the water; the white dove strutted on the
ledge; only the nightingales sang on in the thick arbours.

I pushed my boat between the rocks towards the island.

Bright and burning though the beams of the sun were, here seemed everlasting
shadow.

And though at my gradual intrusion, at splash or grating of keel, the startled cormorant cried
in the air, and with one cry woke many, yet here too seemed perpetual
stillness.

How could I know what eyes might not be regarding me from bowers as thick and secluded as these? Yet this
seemed an isle in some vague fashion familiar to me. To these same watery steps of stone, to this
same mooring-ring surely I had voyaged before in dream or other life?

I glanced into the water and saw my own fantastic image beneath the reflected gloom of cypresses,
and knew at least, though I a shadow might be, this also was an island
in a sea of shadows.

Far from all land its marbles might be reared, yet they were warm
to my touch, and these were nightingales, and those strutting doves
beneath the little arches.

So very gradually, and glancing to and fro into these unstirring groves, I came presently to
the entrance court of the solitary villa on the cliff-side. Here
a thread-like fountain plashed in its basin, the one thing astir in this
cool retreat. Here, too, grew orange trees, with their unripe fruit upon
them. But I continued, and venturing out upon the terrace overlooking
the sea, saw again with a kind of astonishment the doctor's green, unwieldy
boat beneath me and the emerald of the nearer waters tossing above
the yellow sands. Here I had sat awhile lost in ease when I heard a footstep
approaching and the rhythmical rustling of drapery, and knew eyes were
now regarding me that I feared, yet much desired to meet.

"Oh me!" said a clear
yet almost languid voice. "How comes any man so softly?" Turning, I
looked in the face of one how long a shade! I strove in vain to hide
my confusion. This lady only smiled the deeper out of her baffling
eyes. "If you could guess," she said presently, "how my heart leapt
in me, as if, poor creature, any oars of earth could bring it ease,
you would think me indeed as desolate as I am. To hear the bird scream,
Traveller! I hastened from the gardens as if the black ships of the
Greeks were come to take me.

But such is long ago. Tell me, now, is the world
yet harsh with men and sad with women? Burns yet that madness mirth calls
Life? or truly does the puny, busy-tongued race sleep at last, nodding no
more at me?"

I told as best I could how chance
had fetched me; told, too, that earth was yet pestered with men, and
heavenly with women. "And the madness mirth calls Life flickers yet," I said;
"and the little race tosses on in nightmare." "Ah!" she replied,
"so ever run travellers'tales. I too once trusted to seem indifferent.

But
you, if shadow deceives me not, may yet return: I, only to the shades
whence earth draws me. Meanwhile," she said, looking softly at the fountain
playing in the clear gloom beyond, "rest and grow weary again, for
there flock more questions to my tongue than spines on the blackthorn.
The gardens are green with flowers, Traveller; let us talk where
rosemary blows." Following her, I thought of the mysterious beauty
of her eyes, her pallor, her slimness, and that faint smile which hovered
between ecstasy and indifference, and away went my mind to one whom
the shrewdest and tenderest of my own countrymen called once Criseyde.
She led me into a garden all of faint-hued flowers.

There bloomed no scarlet here, nor blue, nor yellow;
but white and lavender and purest purple. Here, also, like torches of the
sun, stood poplars each by each in the windless air, and the impenetrable
darkness of cypresses beneath them. Here too was a fountain whose waters
leapt no more, mossy and time-worn.

I could not but think of those
other gardens of my journey-- Jane's, Ennui's, Dianeme's; and yet
none like this for the shingley murmur of the sea, and the calmness
of morning. "But, surely," I said, "this must be very far from Troy."

"Far
indeed," she said. "Far also from the hollow ships." "Far also from
the hollow ships," she replied. "Yet," said I, "in the country whence I
come is a saying: Where the treasure is--"

"Alack! there gloats
the miser!" said Criseyde; "but I, Traveller, have no treasure, only
a patchwork memory, and that's a great grief."

"Well, then,
forget! Why try in vain?" I said.

She smiled and seated
herself, leaning a little forward, looking upon the ground. "Soothfastness
must,"'she said very gravely, raising her long black eyebrows; "yet
truly it must be a forlorn thing to be remembered by one who so lightly
forgets.

So then I say, to teach myself to be true--'Look now, Criseyde,
yonder fine, many-hearted poplar-- that is Paris; and all that bank
of marriage-ivy-- that is marriageable Helen, green and cold; and the waterless
fountain-- that truly is Diomed; and the faded flower that nods in
shadow, why, that must be me, even me, Criseyde!'" "And this thick
rosemary-bush that smells of exile, who, then, is that?" I said. She looked
deep into the shadow of the cypresses. "That," she said, "I think
I have forgot again."

"But," I said, "Diomed, now, was
he quite so silent-- not one trickle of persuasion?" "Why," she said,
"I think'twas the fountain was Diomed: I know not. And as for persuasion;
he was a man forked, vain, and absolute as all.

Let the waterless
stone be sudden Diomed-- you will confuse my wits, Mariner; where, then,
were I?" She smiled, stooping lower. "You have voyaged far?" she said.
"From childhood to this side regret," I answered rather sadly. "'Tis
a sad end to a sweet tale," she said, "were it but truly told. However, he consoled himself with the reflection that
he could call again a week or ten days after the funeral.

Two days later, Augusta followed the remains of her dearly beloved sister to their last resting
place, and then came home on foot (for she was the only mourner), and sat in her black gown
before the little fire, and reflected upon her position. What was she to do? She could not
stay in these rooms. It made her heart ache every time her eyes fell upon the empty sofa opposite,
dinted as it was with the accustomed weight of poor Jeannie's frame. Where was she to go, and
what was she to do. She might get literary employment, but then her agreement with Messrs.
Meeson stared her in the face. That agreement was very widely drawn. It bound her to offer
all literary work of any sort, that might come from her pen during the next five years, to
Messrs. Meeson at the fixed rate of seven per cent, on the published price. Obviously, as it
seemed to her, though perhaps erroneously, this clause might be stretched to include even a
newspaper article, and she knew the malignant nature of Mr. Meeson well enough to be quite
certain that, if possible, that would be done. It was true she might manage to make a bare
living out of her work, even at the beggarly pay of seven per cent, but Augusta was a person
of spirit, and determined that she would rather starve than that Meeson should again make huge
profits out of her labour. This avenue being closed to her, she turned her mind elsewhere;
but, look where she might, the prospect was equally dark.

Augusta's remarkable literary success had not been of much practical advantage to her, for
in this country literary success does not mean so much as it does in some others. As a matter
of fact, indeed, the average Briton has, at heart, a considerable contempt, if not for literature,
at least for those who produce it. Literature, in his mind, is connected with the idea of garrets
and extreme poverty; and, therefore, having the national respect for money, he in secret, if
not in public, despises it. A tree is known by its fruit, says he. Let a man succeed at the
Bar, and he makes thousands upon thousands a year, and is promoted to the highest offices in
the State. Let a man succeed in art, and he will be paid one or two thousand pounds apiece
for his most "pot-boilery" portraits. But your literary men--why, with a few fortunate exceptions,
the best of them barely make a living. What can literature be worth, if a man can't make a
fortune out of it? So argues the Briton--no doubt with some of his sound common sense. Not
that he has no respect for genius. All men bow to true genius, even when they fear and envy
it. But he thinks a good deal more of genius dead than genius living. However this may be,
there is no doubt but that if through any cause--such, for instance, as the sudden discovery
by the great and highly civilized American people that the seventh commandment was probably
intended to apply to authors, amongst the rest of the world--the pecuniary rewards of literary
labor should be put more upon an equality with those of other trades, literature--as a profession--will
go up many steps in popular esteem. At present, if a member of a family has betaken himself
to the high and honourable calling (for surely, it is both) of letters, his friends and relations
are apt to talk about him in a shy and diffident, not to say apologetic, way; much as they
would had he adopted another sort of book-making as a means of livelihood.

Thus it was that, notwithstanding her success, Augusta had nowhere to turn in her difficulty.
She had absolutely no literary connection. Nobody had called upon her, and sought her out in
consequence of her book. One or two authors in London, and a few unknown people from different
parts of the country and abroad, had written to her--that was all. Had she lived in town it
might have been different; but, unfortunately for her, she did not.

The more she thought, the less clear did her path become; until, at last, she got an inspiration.
Why not leave England altogether? She had nothing to keep her here. She had a cousin--a clergyman--in
New Zealand, whom she had never seen, but who had read "Jemima's Vow," and written her a kind
letter about it. That was the one delightful thing about writing books; one made friends all
over the world. Surely he would take her in for a while, and put her in the way of earning
a living where Meeson would not be to molest her? Why should she not go? She had twenty pounds
left, and the furniture (which included an expensive invalid chair), and books would fetch
another thirty or so--enough to pay for a second-class passage and leave a few pounds in her
pocket. At the worst it would be a change, and she could not go through more there than she
did here, so that very night she sat down and wrote to her clergyman cousin.

CHAPTER V.

THE R.M.S. KANGAROO.

It was on a Tuesday evening that a mighty vessel was steaming majestically out of the mouth
of the Thames, and shaping her imposing course straight at the ball of the setting sun. Most
people will remember reading descriptions of the steamship Kangaroo, and being astonished at
the power of her engines, the beauty of her fittings, and the extraordinary speed--about eighteen
knots--which she developed in her trials, with an unusually low expenditure of coal. For the
benefit of those who have not, however, it may be stated that the Kangaroo, "the Little Kangaroo,"
as she was ironically named among sailor men, was the very latest development of the science
of modern ship-building. Everything about her, from the electric light and boiler tubes up,
was on a new and patent system.

Four hundred feet and more she measured from stem to stern, and in that space were crowded
and packed all the luxuries of a palace, and all the conveniences of an American hotel. She
was a beautiful and a wonderful thing to look on; as, with her holds full of costly merchandise
and her decks crowded with her living freight of about a thousand human beings, she steamed
slowly out to sea, as though loth to leave the land where she was born. I dismounted and, with the
nose of my beast in my bosom, stood awhile gazing, in the half-dream weariness brings, across
the valley at the dense forests that covered the hills. And while thus standing, doubtful whether
to knock at the little gate or to ride on, it began to open, and a great particoloured dog looked
out on us. There was certainly something unusual in the aspect of this animal, for though he
lifted on us grave and sagacious eyes, he scarcely seemed to see us, manifested neither pleasure
nor disapproval, neither wagged his tail to give us welcome nor yawned to display his armament. He
seemed a kind of dream-dog, a dog one sees without zeal, and sees again partly with the eye, but
most in recollection.

Thus however we stood, stranger, horse, and dog, till a morose voice called somewhere from beyond,
"Pilot, sir, come here, Pilot." Semi-dog or no, he knew his master. Whereupon, tying up my dejected
Rosinante to a ring in the gateway, I followed boldly after "Pilot" into that sequestered
garden.

Meanwhile, however, he had disappeared-- down a thick green alley to the left, I supposed. So
I went forward by a clearer path, and when I had advanced a few paces, met face to face a lady
whose dark eyes seemed strangely familiar to me.

She was evidently a little disquieted at meeting a stranger so unceremoniously, but stood her
ground like a small, black, fearless note of interrogation.

I explained at once, therefore, as best I could, how I came to be
there: described my journey, my bewilderment, and how that I knew
not into what country nor company fate had beguiled me, except that
the one was beautiful, and the other in some delightful way familiar,
and I begged her to tell me where I really was, and how far from home,
and of whom I was now beseeching forgiveness.

Her thoughts followed my every word, passing upon her face like shadows on the sea. I have
never seen a listener so completely still and so completely engrossed
in listening.

And when I had finished, she looked aside with a transient, half-sly smile, and glanced at
me again covertly, so that I could not see herself for seeing her
eyes; and she laughed lightly.

"It is indeed a strange journey," she replied. "But I fear I cannot in the least direct you.
I have never ventured my own self beyond the woods, lest-- I should penetrate too far. But
you are tired and hungry. Will you please walk on a few steps till you come to a stone seat?
My name is Rochester-- Jane Rochester"-- she glanced up between the hollies with a sigh that was all
but laughter-- "Jane Eyre, you know."

I went on as she had bidden, and seated myself before an old, white, many-windowed house, squatting,
like an owl at noon, beneath its green covert. In a few minutes the great dog with dripping jowl
passed almost like reality, and after him his mistress, and on her
arm her master, Mr. Rochester.

There seemed a night of darkness in that scarred face, and stars unearthly bright. He peered
dimly at me, leaning heavily on Jane's arm, his left hand plunged into the bosom of his coat.
And when he was come near, he lifted his hat to me with a kind of
Spanish gravity.

"Is this the gentleman, Jane?" he enquired.

"Yes,
sir."

"He's young!" he muttered.

"For otherwise he would not be
here," she replied.

"Was the gate bolted, then?" he asked.

"Mr.
Rochester desires to know if you had the audacity, sir, to scale his
garden wall," Jane said, turning sharply on me. "Shall I count the
strawberries, sir?" she added over her shoulder.

"" Jane, Jane! "he
exclaimed testily." I have no wish to be uncivil, sir. We are not
of the world-- a mere dark satellite. I am dim; and suspicious of strangers,
as this one treacherous eye should manifest.

Augusta, on board the Kangaroo, was, however, in utter ignorance of this act of devotion on
the part of her admirer; indeed, she did not even know that he was her admirer. Feeling a curious
sinking sensation within her, she was about to go below to her cabin, which she shared with
a lady's-maid, not knowing whether to attribute it to sentimental qualms incidental to her
lonely departure from the land of her birth, or to other qualms connected with the first experience
of life upon the ocean wave. About that moment, however, a burly quarter-master addressed her
in gruff tones, and informed her that if she wanted to see the last of "hold Halbion," she
had better go aft a bit, and look over the port side, and she would see the something or other
light. Accordingly, more to prove to herself that she was not sea-sick than for any other reason,
she did so, and, standing as far aft as the second-class passengers were allowed to go, stared
at the quick flashes of the light-house, as second by second, they sent their message across
the great waste of sea.

As she stood there, holding on to a stanchion to steady herself, for the vessel, large as she
was, had begun to get a bit of a roll on, she was suddenly aware of a bulky figure of a man
which came running or rather reeling against the bulwarks alongside of her, where it--or rather
he--was instantly and violently ill. Augusta was, not unnaturally, almost horrified into following
the figure's example, when, suddenly growing faint or from some other cause, it loosed its
hold and rolled into the scuppers, where it lay feebly swearing. Augusta, obeying a tender
impulse of humanity, hurried forward and stretched out the hand of succour, and presently,
between her help and that of the bulwark netting, the man struggled to his feet. As he did
so his face came close to hers, and in the dim light she recognised the fat, coarse features,
now blanched with misery, of Mr. Meeson, the publisher. There was no doubt about it, it was
her enemy; the man whose behavior had indirectly, as she believed, caused the death of her
little sister. She dropped his hand with an exclamation of disgust and dismay, and as she did
so he recognised who she was.

"Hullo!" he said, with a faint and rather feeble attempt to assume his fine old crusted publishing-company
manners. "Hullo! Miss Jemima--Smithers, I mean; what on earth are you doing here?"

"I am going to New Zealand, Mr. Meeson," she answered sharply; "and I certainly did not expect
to have the pleasure of your company on the voyage."

"Going to New Zealand," he said, "are you? Why, so am I; at least, I am going there first,
then to Australia. What do you mean to do there--try and run round our little agreement, eh?
It won't be any good, I tell you plainly. We have our agents in New Zealand, and a house in
Australia, and if you try to get the better of Meeson's there, Meeson's will be even with you,
Miss Smithers--Oh, Heavens! Ah!

Mr. Brocken, they call it wasp-honey when it is so bitter that it blisters the lips. "She talked
on gaily, as if she had forgotten I was but a stranger until now.

Yet none the less she perceived presently my eyes ever and again fixed upon the little brooch
of faintest gold hair at her throat, and flinched and paled, playing
on in silence."

Take the whole past, "she continued abruptly," spread it out before you, with all its just defeats,
all its broken faith, and overweening hopes, its beauty, and fear,
and love, and its loss-- its loss; then turn and say: this, this only,
this duller heart, these duller eyes, this contumacious spirit is
all that is left-- myself.

Oh! who could wish to one so dear a destiny so dark? "She rose hastily
from the piano."

Did I hear Mr. Rochester's step by the window? "she said.

I crossed the room and looked out into the night. The brightening moon hung golden in the dark clearness
of the sky. Mr. Rochester stood motionless, Napoleon-wise, beneath the black, unstirring foliage.
And before I could turn, Jane had begun to sing:-- You take my heart
with tears; I battle uselessly; Reft of all hopes and doubts and fears,
Lie quietly.

You veil my heart with cloud; Since faith is dim and blind, I can
but grope perplex'd and bow'd, Seek till I find.

Yet
bonds are life to me; How else could I perceive The love in each wild artery That bids me live?
Jane's was not a rich voice, nor very sweet, and yet I fancied no
other voice than this could plead and argue quite so clearly and with
such nimble insistency-- neither of bird, nor child, nor brook; because,
I suppose, it was the voice of Jane Eyre, and all that was Jane's
seemed Jane's only.

The music ceased, the accompaniment died away; but Mr. Rochester stood immobile yet-- a little
darker night in that much deeper.

When I turned, Jane was gone from the room. I sat down, my face towards the still candles, as one who
is awake, yet dreams on. The faint scent of the earth through the open window; the heavy, sombre
furniture; the daintiness and the alertness in the many flowers and few womanly gew-gaws: these
too I shall remember in a tranquillity that cannot change.

A sudden, trembling glimmer at the window lit the garden and, instantaneously, the distant hills;
lit also the figures of Jane and Mr. Rochester beneath the trees. They
entered the house, and once more Jane drew the bolts against that
phantom fear.

A tinge of scarlet stood in her cheeks, an added lustre in her eyes. They were strange lovers,
these two-- like frost upon a cypress tree; yet summer lay all around us.
I bade them good night and ascended to the little room prepared for
me. There was a great pincushion on the sprigged and portly toilet
table, and I laboured till the constellations had changed beyond
my window, in printing from a box of tiny pins upon that lavendered
mound," Ave, Ave, atque Vale!

"Far in the night a dreadful sound woke me. I rose and looked out of the window, and heard again,
deep and reverberating, Pilot baying I know not what light minions of the moon. The Great Bear
wheeled faintly clear in the dark zenith, but the borders of the east were grey as glass; and far
away a fierce hound was answering from his echo-place in the gloom, as
if the dread dog of Acheron kept post upon the hills.

A light tap woke me in the sunlight, and a lighter voice. Mr. Rochester took breakfast with us in a gloomy
old dressing-room, moody and taciturn, unpacified by sleep. But Jane, whimsical and deft, had tied
a yellow ribbon in the darkness of her hair. Rosinante awaited me at the little green gate,
eyeing forlornly the steep valley at her feet.

And I rode on. The gate was shut on me; and Mr. Rochester again, perhaps, at his black ease. I had
jogged on, with that peculiar gravity age brings to equine hoofs,
about a mile, when the buttress of a thick wall came into view abutting
on the lane, and perched thereon what at first I deemed a coloured
figment of the mist that festooned the branches and clung along the
turf.

But when I drew near I saw it was indeed a child, pink and gold and palest blue. And she raised
changeling hands at me, and laughed and danced and chattered like the drops upon a waterfall;
and clear as if a tiny bell had jingled I heard her cry.

And my heart smote me heavily since I had of my own courtesy not
remembered Adèle.

IV Cuckoo, jug-jug, pu-we, tu-witta-woo.-- THOMAS NASH. It was yet
early, and refreshing in the chequered shade.

We plodded earnestly after our gaunt shadow in the dust, and ever
downward, till at last we drew so near to the opposite steep that
I could well nigh count its pines.

It was about the hour when birds seek shade and leave but few among
their fellows to sing, that at a stone's throw from the foot of the
hill I came to where a faint bridle-path diverged.

And since it was smooth with moss, and Rosinante haply tired of pebbles;
since any but the direct road seems ever the more delectable, I too
turned aside, and broke into the woods through which this path meandered.

Maybe it is because all woods are enchanted that the path seemed more than many miles long. Often
too we loitered, or stood, head by head, to listen, or to watch what might be after all only wings,
mere sunbeams. Shall I say, then, that it began to be thorny, and,
where the thorns were, pale with roses, when at length the knitted
boughs gradually drew asunder, and I looked down between twitching,
hairy ears upon a glade so green and tranquil, I deemed it must be
the Garden of the Hesperides?

And because there ran a very welcome brook of water through this glade, I left Rosinante to follow whithersoever
a sweet tooth might dictate, and climbed down into the weedy coolness at the waterbrink. I confess
I laughed to see so puckered a face as mine in the clear blue of
the flowing water.

But I dipped my hands and my head into the cold shallows none the
less pleasantly, and was casting about for a deeper pool where I might
bathe unscorned of the noonday, when I heard a light laughter behind
me, and, turning cautiously, perceived under the further shadow of
the glade three ladies sitting.

Not even vanity could persuade me that they were laughing at anything
more grotesque than myself, so, putting a bold face on matters so
humiliating, I sauntered as carelessly and loftily as I dared in their
direction.

My courage seemed to abash them a little; they gathered back their
petticoats like birds about to fly.

But at hint of a titter, they all three began gaily laughing again
till their eyes sparkled brighter than ever, and their cheeks seemed
shadows of the roses above their heads."

Ladies, "I began gravely," I have left my horse, that is very old and very thirsty, above in the wood.
Is there any path I may discover by which she may reach the water without
offence? "" Is she very old? "said one."

She is very old, "I said." But is she very thirsty? "said another." She is perhaps very thirsty,
"I said." Perhaps! "cried they all." Because, ladies, "I replied," being by nature of a timid tongue,
and compelled to say something, and having nothing apt to say, I remembered my old Rosinante
above in the wood. "They glanced each at each, and glanced again at me." But there is no path down
that is not steep, "said the fairest of the three."

There never was a path, not even, we fear, for a traveller on foot, "continued the second. I waited
in silence a moment." Forgive me, then, "I said;" I will offend no longer. "But this seemed far from
their design." You see, being come, "began the fairest again," Julia thinks Fortune must have
brought you. Are we not all between Fortune's finger and thumb? "" If pinching is to prove anything,
"said the other." And Fortune is fickle, too, "added Julia--" that's
early wisdom; but not quite so fickle as you would wish to show her.

Here we have sat in these mortal glades ever since our poor Herrick died. And here it seems we are
like to sit till he rises again. It is all so-- dubious. But since
Electra has invited you to rest awhile, will you not really rest?

There
is shade as deep, and fruit to refresh you, in a little arbour yonder.
Perhaps even Anthea will dip out of her weeping awhile if she hears
that... a poor old thirsty horse is tethered in the woods.

"They rose up together with a prolonged rustling as of a peacock displaying his plumes; and
I found myself irretrievably their captive. Moreover, even if they
were but sylphs and fantasies of the morning, they were fantasies
lovely as even their master had portrayed; while the dells through
which they led me were green and deep and white and golden with buds.

It was now, I suppose, about the middle of the morning, yet though the sun was high, his heat was that of dawn.
Dawn lingered in the shadows, as snow when winter is over and gone, and dwelt among the sunbeams.
Dew lay heavy on the grass, as the dainty heels of my captresses
testified, yet they trod lightly upon daisies wide-open to the blue
sky, while daffadowndillies stooped in a silence broken only by their
laughter.

We came presently to a little stone summerhouse or arbour, enclustered with leaves and flowers of ivy
and convolvulus, wherein two great dishes of cherries stood and bowls
of honeycomb and sillabub. There we sat down; but they kept me close
too in the midst of the arbour, where perhaps I was not so ill-content
to be as I should like to profess.

How then could I else than bob for cherries as often as I dared, and
prove my wit to conceal my hunger?"

And now, Sir Traveller, "said she of the sparkling eyes, named Dianeme,"
since we have got you safe, tell us of all we have never heard or
seen!

"" And oh! are we forgot?

"cried Electra, laying a lip upon a cherry."

There's not a poet in his teens but warbles of you morn, noon, and
night, "I answered."

There's not a lover mad, young, true, and tender, but borrows your
azure, and your rubies, and your roses, and your stars, to deck his
sweetheart's name with.

""

Boys perhaps, "cried Julia softly," but men soon forget. "" Youth
never, "I replied." Why'Youth'? "said Dianeme." Herrick was not always young.
""

Ay, but all men once were young, please God, "I said," and youth
is the only'once'that's worth remembrance.

Youth with the heart of youth adores you, ladies; because, when dreams
come thick upon them, they catch your flying laughter in the woods.

When the sun is sunk, and the stars kindle in the sky, then your
eyes haunt the twilight.

You
come in dreams, and mock the waking.

You the mystery; you the bravery and danger; you the long-sought;
you the never-won; memories, hopes, songs ere the earth is mute.

You will always be loved, believe me, O bright ladies, till youth fades,
turns, and loves no more.

"And I gazed amazed on cherries of such potency as these."

But once, sir, "said Julia timidly," we were not only loved but told
we were loved.

"" Where is the pleasure else? "cried Dianeme." Besides, "said Electra," Anthea says if we might
but find where Styx flows one draught-- my mere palmful-- would be sweeter than all the poetry
ever writ, save some. "" It is idle, "cried Dianeme;" Herrick himself admired us most on paper.
"" And ink makes a cross even of a kiss, that is very well known,
"said Julia."

Ah! "said I," all men have eyes; few see. Most men have tongues: there
is but one Robin Herrick.

"" I will tell you a secret, "said Dianeme. And as if a bird of the
air had carried her voice, it seemed a hush fell on sky and greenery."

We are but fairy-money all, "she said," an envy to see. Take us!--'tis all dry leaves in the
hand. Herrick stole the honey, and the bees he killed.

Blow never so softly on the tinder, it flames-- and dies. "" I heard once, "said Electra, with
but a thought of pride," that had I lived a little, little earlier, I might have been the Duchess
of Malfi. ""

I too, Flatterer, "cried Julia," I too-- Desdemona slain by a blackamoor. To some it is the cold
hills and the valleys'green and sad,'and the sea-birds'wailing, "she continued in a low, strange
voice," and to some the glens of heather, and the mountain-brooks, and the rowans. But, come to an
end, what are we all? This man's eyes will tell ye! I would give white and red, nectar and
snow and roses, and all the similes that ever were for-- ""

For what? "said I." I think, for Robin Herrick, "she said. It was a lamentable confession, for
that said, gravity fled away; and Electra fetched out a lute from a low cupboard in the arbour,
and while she played Julia sang to a sober little melody I seemed
to know of old: Sighs have no skill To wake from sleep Love once too
wild, too deep.

Gaze if thou will, Thou canst not harm Eyes shut to subtle charm. Oh!'tis my silence Shows thee
false, Should I be silent else? Haste thou then by! Shine not thy face On mine, and love's disgrace!
Whereat Dianeme lifted on me so naïve an afflicted face I must needs
beseech another song, despite my drowsy lids.

Wherefore I heard, far away as it were, the plucking of the strings, and a voice betwixt dream
and wake sing: All sweet flowers Wither ever, Gathered fresh Or gathered
never; But to live when love is gone!-- Grieve, grieve, lute, sadly
on!

All I had--'Twas all thou gav'st me; That foregone, Ah! what can
save me?

If the exórcised spirit fly, Nought is left to love me by. Take thy stars, My tears then leave me; Thine
my bliss, As thine to grieve me; Take.... For then, so insidious was the music, and not quite
of this earth the voice, my senses altogether forsook me, and I fell
asleep.

Would that I could remember much else!

But I confess it is the heart remembers, not the poor, pestered brain
that has so many thoughts and but one troubled thinker.

Indeed, were I now to be asked-- Were the fingers cold of these bright
ladies?

Were their eyes blue, or hazel, or brown? or, haply, were Dianeme's that incomparable, dark, sparkling
grey?

Wore Julia azure, and Electra white? And was that our poet wrote our poet's only, or truly theirs,
and so even more lovely?-- I fear I could not tell. I fell asleep;
and when I awoke no lute was sounding.

I was alone; and the arbour a little house of gloom on the borders of evening. I caught up yet
one more handful of cherries, and stumbled out, heavy and dim, into
a pale-green firmanent of buds and glow-worms, to seek the poor Rosinante
I had so heedlessly deserted.

But I was gone but a little way when I was brought suddenly to a
standstill by another sound that in the hush of the garden, in the
bright languor after sleep, went to my heart: it was as if a child
were crying.

I pushed through a thick and aromatic clump of myrtles, and peering
between the narrow leaves, perceived the cold, bright face of a little
marble god beneath willows; and, seated upon a starry bank near by,
one whom by the serpentry of her hair and the shadow of her lips I
knew to be Anthea."

Why are you weeping? "I said." I was imitating a little brook, "she
said."

It is late; the bat is up; yet you are alone, "I said."

Pan will protect me, "she said." And nought else? "She turned her face away." None, "she said."
I live among shadows. There was a world, I dreamed, where autumn
follows summer, and after autumn, winter.

Here it is always June, despite us both. "" What, then, would you
have?

"I said." Ask him, "she replied. But the little god looking sidelong
was mute in his grey regard."

Why do you not run away? What keeps you here? "" You ask many questions,
stranger! Who can escape?

To
live is to remember. To die-- oh, who would forget!

Even had I been weeping, and not merely mocking time away, would my
tears be of Lethe at my mouth's corners?

No, "said Anthea," why feign and lie? All I am is but a memory lovely with
regret. "She rose, and the myrtles concealed her from me. And I,
in the midst of the dusk where the tiny torches burned sadly-- I
turned to the sightless eyes of that smiling god.

What
he knew, being blind, yet smiling, I seemed to know then. But that
also I have forgotten. I whistled softly and clearly into the air,
and a querulous voice answered me from afar-- the voice of a grasshopper--
Rosinante's. V How should I your true love know From another one?--
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE.

But even then she was difficult finding, so cunningly had
ivy and blackberry and bindweed woven snares for the trespasser's foot.
But at last-- not far from where we had parted-- I found her, a pillar
of smoke in the first shining of the moon. She turned large, smouldering
eyes on me, her mane in elf locks, her flanks heaving and wet, her forelock
frizzed like a colt's. Yet she showed only pleasure at seeing me, and
so evident a desire to unburden the day's history, that I almost
wished I might be Balaam awhile, and she-- Dapple!

It would be idle to attempt to ride through these thick, glimmering
brakes.

The
darkness was astir.

 I quarrelled with my nephew about her,
and now she's dragging my name through the dirt here, and I'll bet the story will go all over
New Zealand and Australia."

"Yes," said Mr. Tombey, "I fancy you will find it take a lot of choking; and now, Mr. Meeson,
with your permission I will say a word, and try and throw a new light upon a very perplexing
matter. It never seems to have occurred to you what an out-and-out blackguard you are, so I
may as well put it to you plainly. If you are not a thief, you are, at least, a very well-coloured
imitation. You take a girl's book and make hundreds upon hundreds out of it, and give her fifty.
You tie her down, so as to provide for successful swindling of the same sort, during future
years, and then, when she comes to beg a few pounds of you, you show her the door. And now
you wonder, Mr. Meeson, that respectable people will have nothing to do with you! Well, now,
I tell you, my opinion is that the only society to which you would be really suited is that
of cow-hide. Good morning," and the large young man walked off, his very moustachios curling
with wrath and contempt. Thus, for a second time, did the great Mr. Meeson hear the truth from
the lips of babes and sucklings, and the worst of it was that he could not disinherit Number
Two as he had Number One.

Now this will strike the reader as being very warm advocacy on the part of Mr. Tombey, who,
being called in to console and bless, cursed with such extraordinary vigour. It may even strike
the discerning reader--and all readers, or, at least, nearly all readers, are of course discerning:
far too much so, indeed--that there must have been a reason for it; and the discerning reader
will be right. Augusta's grey eyes had been too much for Mr. Tombey, as they had been too much
for Eustace Meeson before him. His passion had sprung up and ripened in that peculiarly rapid
and vigorous fashion that passions do on board ship. A passenger steamer is Cupid's own hot-bed,
and in this way differs from a sailing-ship. On the sailing-ship, indeed, the preliminary stages
are the same. The seed roots as strongly, and grows and flowers with equal vigour; but here
comes the melancholy part--it withers and decays with equal rapidity. The voyage is too long.
Too much is mutually revealed. The matrimonial iron cannot be struck while it is hot, and long
before the weary ninety days are over it is once more cold and black, or at the best glows
with but a feeble heat. But on the steamship there is no time for this, as any traveller knows.
Myself--I, the historian--have, with my own eyes seen a couple meet for the first time at Maderia,
get married at the Cape, and go on as man and wife in the same vessel to Natal. And, therefore,
it came to pass that very evening a touching, and, on the whole melancholy, little scene was
enacted near the smoke-stack of the Kangaroo.

Mr. Tombey and Miss Augusta Smithers were leaning together over the bulwarks and watching the
phosphorescent foam go flashing past. Mr. Tombey was nervous and ill at ease; Miss Smithers
very much at ease, and reflecting that her companion's moustachios would very well become a
villain in a novel.

Mr. Tombey looked at the star-spangled sky, on which the Southern Cross hung low, and he looked
at the phosphorescent sea; but from neither did inspiration come. Inspiration is from within,
and not from without. At last, however, he made a gallant and a desperate effort.

"Miss Smithers," he said in a voice trembling with agitation.

"Yes, Mr. Tombey," answered Augusta, quietly; "what is it?"

"Miss Smithers," he went on--"Miss Augusta, I don't know what you will think of me, but I must
tell you, I can't keep it any longer, I love you!"

Augusta fairly jumped. Mr. Tombey had been very, even markedly, polite, and she, not being
a fool, had seen that he admired her; but she had never expected this, and the suddenness with
which the shot was fired was somewhat bewildering.

"Why, Mr. Tombey," she said in a surprised voice, "you have only known me for a little more
than a fortnight."

"I fell in love with you when I had only known you for an hour," he answered with evident sincerity.
"Please listen to me. I know I am not worthy of you! But I do love you so very dearly, and
I would make you a good husband; indeed I would, I am well off; though, of course that is nothing;
and if you don't like New Zealand, I would give it up and go to live in England. Do you think
that you can take me? If you only knew how dearly I love you, I am sure you would."

Augusta collected her wits as well as she could. The man evidently did love her; there was
no doubting the sincerity of his words, and she liked him and he was a gentleman. If she married
him there would be an end of all her worries and troubles, and she could rest contentedly on
his strong arm. Woman, even gifted woman, is not made to fight the world with her own hand,
and the prospect had allurements. But while she thought, Eustace Meeson's bonny face rose before
her eyes, and, as it did so, a faint feeling of repulsion to the man who was pleading with
her took form and colour in her breast. Eustace Meeson, of course, was nothing to her; no word
or sign of affection had passed between them; and the probability was that she would never
set her eyes upon him again. And yet that face rose up between her and this man who was pleading
at her side. Many women, likely enough, have seen some such vision from the past and have disregarded
it, only to find too late that that which is thrust aside is not necessarily hidden; for alas!
those faces of our departed youth have an uncanny trick of rising from the tomb of our forgetfulness.
But Augusta was not of the great order of opportunists. Because a thing might be convenient,
it did not, according to the dictates of her moral sense, follow that it was lawful. Therefore,
she was a woman to be respected. For a woman who, except under most exceptional circumstances,
gives her instincts the lie in order to pander to her convenience or her desire for wealth
and social ease, is not altogether a woman to be respected.

In a very few seconds she had made up her mind.

"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Tombey," she said; "you have done me a great honour, the
greatest honour man can do to a woman; but I cannot marry you."

"Are you sure?" gasped the unfortunate Tombey, for his hopes had been high. "Is there no hope
for me? Perhaps there is somebody else!"

"There is nobody else, Mr. Tombey; and, I am sorry to say, you don't know how much it pains
me to say it, I cannot hold out any prospect that I shall change my mind."

He dropped his head upon his hands for a minute, and then lifted it again.

"Very well," he said slowly; "it can't be helped. I never loved any woman before, and I never
shall again. It is a pity "--(with a hard, little laugh)--"that so much first-class affection
should be wasted. But, there you are; it is all part and parcel of the pleasant experiences
which make up our lives. Good-bye, Miss Smithers; at least, good-bye as a friend!"

"We can still be friends," she faltered.

"Oh, no," he answered, with another laugh; "that is an exploded notion. Friendship of that
nature is not very safe under any circumstances, certainly not under these. The relationship
is antagonistic to the facts of life, and the friends, or one or other of them, will drift
either into indifference and dislike, or--something warmer. You are a novelist, Miss Smithers;
perhaps some day you will write a book to explain why people fall in love where their affection
is not wanted, and what purpose their distress can possibly serve. And now, once more, good
bye!" and he lifted her hand to his lips and gently kissed it, and then, with a bow, turned
and went.

From all of which it will be clearly seen that Mr. Tombey was decidedly a young man above the
average, and one who took punishment very well. Augusta looked after him, and sighed deeply,
and even wiped away a tear. Then she turned and walked aft, to where Lady Holmhurst was sitting
enjoying the balmy southern air, through which the great ship was rushing with outspread sails
like some huge white bird, and chatting to the captain. "I have heard," muttered Superstition,
putting out his hand, "'tis fear only that maketh afraid. Atheist
has no fear."

"But what of Cruelty," I said, "and Liveloose?"

"Why," answered Superstition, "Cruelty works cunningest when he is
afraid; and Liveloose never talks about himself.

None the less there's not a tree but casts a shadow. I met once an earnest yet very popular young
gentleman of the name of Science, who explained almost everything
on earth to me so clearly, and patiently, and fatherly, I thought
I should evermore sleep in peace.

But we met at noon. Believe me, sir, I would have followed Christian and his friend Hopeful
very willingly long since; for as for Cruelty and Obstinate and all
that clumsy rabble, I heed them not.

Indeed my cousin Mistrust did go, and as you see returned with a caution; and a poor young school-fellow
of mine, Jack Ignorance, came to an awful end.

But it is because I owe partly to Christian and not all to myself this horrible solitude in which I
walk that I dare not risk a deeper. It would be, I feel sure.

And so I very willingly beheld Faithful burned; it restored my confidence. And here, sir," he
added, almost with gaiety, "lives my friend Mrs. Simple, a widow. She enjoys my company and my
old fables, and we keep the blinds down against these mountains, and candles burning against the brighter
lightnings."

So saying, Superstition bade us good-night and passed down a little
by-lane on our left towards a country cottage, like a dreaming bower
of roses beneath the moon.

But Reverie and I continued on as if the moon herself as patiently
pursued us.

And by-and-by we came to a house called Gloom, whose gardens slope down with plashing fountains
and glimmering banks of flowers into the shadow and stillness of a broad valley, named beneath
the hills of Silence, Peace.

XI His soul shall taste the sadness of her might, And be among her
cloudy trophies hung.-- JOHN KEATS.

Even as we entered the gates of Mr. Reverie's house beneath embowering
chestnuts, there advanced across the moonlit spaces to meet us a figure
on foot like ourselves, leading his horse.

He was in armour, yet unarmed.

His steel glittered cold and blue; his fingers hung ungauntleted; and on his pale face dwelt a look
never happy warrior wore yet. He seemed a man Mars lends to Venus out of war to unhappy idleness.
The disillusionment of age was in his face: yet he was youthful, I suppose; scarce older than
Mercutio, and once, perhaps, as light of wit. He took my hand in a grasp cold and listless,
and smiled from mirthless eyes. Yet there was something strangely taking in this solitary knight-at-arms.
She for whom he does not fight, I thought, must have somewhat of
the immortals to grace her warrior with.

And if it were only shadows that beset him and obscured his finer
heart, shadows they were of myrtle and rhododendron, with voices shrill
and small as the sparrows', and eyes of the next-to-morning stars.

Indeed, these gardens whispered, and the wind at play in the air seemed to bear far-away music,
dying and falling. We entered the house and sat down to supper in a low room open to the night.
Reverie recounted our evening's talk. "I wish," he said, turning to his
friend, "you would accompany Mr. Brocken and me one night to the'World's
End'to hear these fellows talk.

Such arrogance, such assurance, such bigotry and blindness and foxiness!-- yet, on my word, a kind
of gravity with it all, as if the scarecrows had some real interest
in the devil's tares they guard.

Come now, let it be a bargain between us, and leave this endless search awhile." But the solitary
knight shook his head.

"They would jeer me out of knowledge," he said. "Why, Reverie, the children cease their play when
I pass, and draw their tops and marbles out of the dust, and gaze till I am hid from sight."
"It is fancy, only fancy," replied Reverie; "children stare at all things new to them in the world.
How else could they recognise and learn again-- how else forget? But as for this rabble's mockery,
there is a she-bear left called Oblivion which is their mistress,
and will some day silence every jeer."

The solitary knight shook his head again, eyeing me solemnly as if in hope to discern in my face the sorcery
that held himself in thrall. The few wax tapers gave but light enough to find the way from
goblet to mouth.

As for Reverie's wine, I ask no other, for it had the poppy's scarlet, and overcame weariness so subtly
I almost forgot these were the hours of sleep we spent in waking; forgot, too, as if of the lotus,
all thought of effort and hope. After all, thought I as I sipped, effort is the flaw that proves
men mortal; while as for hope, who would seek a seed that floats
on every wind and smothers the world with weeds that bear no fruit?

It was, in fact, fare very different from the ale and cheese of the "World's End." "But you yourself,"
I said to Mr. Reverie presently; "in all the talk at the inn you
kept a very scrupulous silence-- discreet enough, I own.

But now, what truly was this Christian of whom we heard so much? and why, may I ask, do his neighbours
slander the dead? You yourselves, did you ever meet with him?" I turned from one to the other of
my companions as they glanced uneasily each at each. "Well, sir,"
said Reverie rather deliberately, "I have met him and talked with
him.

I often think of him, in spite of myself. Yet he was a man of little
charm. He certainly had a remarkable gift for estranging his friends.
He was a foe to the most innocent compromise.

For myself, I found not much humour in him, no eye for grace or art,
and a limited imagination that was yet his absolute master.

Nevertheless, as you hint, these fellows, no more than I, can forget him. Nor you?" He turned to
the other. "Christian," he replied, "I remember him. We were friends a little while. Faithful
I knew also. Faithful was to the last my friend. Ah! Reverie, then-- how many years ago!-- there
was a child we loved, all three: do you remember?

I see the low, green wall, cool from how many a summer's shadows, the clusters
of green apples on the bough.

And in the early morning we would go, carrying torn-off branches, and shouting our songs through
the fields, till we came to the shadow and the hush of the woods.

Ay, Reverie, and we would burst in on silence, each his heart beating, and play there. And perhaps
it was Hopeful who would steal away from us, and the others play on;
or perhaps you into the sunlight that maddened the sheltered bird
to flit and sing in the orchard where the little child we loved played--
not yet sad, but how much beloved; not yet weary of passing shadows,
and simple creatures, and boy's rough gifts and cold hands.

But I-- with me it was ever evening, when the blackbird bursts harshly away. Then it was so still
in the orchard, and in the curved bough so solitary, that the nightingale,
cowering, would almost for fear begin to sing, and stoop to the bending
of the bough, her sidelong eyes in shade; while the stars began to
stand in the stations above us, ever bright, and all the night was
peace.

Then would I dream on-- dream of the face I loved, Innocence, O Innocence!"

It was a strange outburst. His voice rose almost to a chant, full of a forlorn music. But even
as he ceased, we heard in the following silence, above the plashing of the restless fountains,
beyond, far and faint, a wild and stranger music welling. And I saw from the porch that looks
out from the house called Gloom, "La belle Dame sans Merci" pass riding with her train, who
rides in beauty beneath the huntress, heedless of disguise. Across from far away, like leaves of
autumn, skirred the dappled deer. The music grew, timbrel and pipe and tabor, as beneath the
glances of the moon the little company sped, transient as a rainbow, elusive as a dream. I saw
her maidens bound and sandalled, with all their everlasting flowers;
and advancing soundless, unreal, the silver wheels of that unearthly
chariot amid the Fauns. On, on they gamboled, hoof in yielding turf,
blowing reed melodies, mocking water, their lips laid sidelong, their
eyes aleer along the smoothness of their flutes.

And when I turned again to my companions, with I know not what old folly in my eyes, I know not
what unanswerable cry in my heart, Reverie alone was at my side. I seemed to see the long fringes
of the lake, the sedge withered, the grey waters restless in the bonds
of the wind, tuneless and chill; all these happy gardens swept bare and
flowerless; and the far hills silent in the unattainable dawn.

"She pipes, he follows," said Reverie; "she sets the tune, he dances.

Yet, sir, on my soul, I believe it is the childish face of that same
Innocence we kept tryst with long ago he pursues on and on, through
what sad labyrinths we, who dream not so wildly, cannot by taking
thought come to guess."***** The next two days passed serenely and
quietly at Reverie's. We read together, rode, walked, and talked together,
and listened in the evening to music.

For a sister of Reverie's lived not far distant, who visited him while I was there, and took
supper with us, delighting us with her wit and spirit and her youthful voice. But though Reverie
more than once suggested it, I could not bring myself to return to the "World's End" and its garrulous
company. Whether it was the moist, grey face of Mr. Cruelty I most abhorred, or Stubborn's slug-like eye,
or the tongue-stump of my afflicted guide, I cannot say. Moreover, I had begun to feel a very
keen curiosity to see the way that had lured Christian on with such graceless obstinacy.
They had spoken of remorse, poverty, pride, world-failure, even insanity, even vice: but these appeared
to me only such things as might fret a man to set violently out on, not to persist in such a course;
or likelier yet, to abandon hope, to turn back from heights that
trouble or confusion set so far, and made seem dreams.

How could I help, too, being amused to think how vastly strange these fellows considered a man's
venturing whither his star beckoned; though that star were only power,
only fame, only beauty, only peace?

What wonder they were many? Not far from this place, Reverie informed me, were pitched the booths of
Vanity Fair. This, by his account, was a place one ought to visit, if only for the satisfaction
of leaving it behind. But I have heard more animated accounts of it elsewhere. As for Reverie
himself, he seemed only desirous to contemplate; never to taste, to win, or to handle. He needed but refuse
reality to what shocked or teased him, to find it harmless and entertaining.

He was a dreamer whom the heat and shout of battle could not offend. Perhaps he perceived my
restlessness to be gone, for he himself suggested that I should stay till the next morning, and
then, if I so pleased, he would see me a mile or two on my way. "For the Pitiless Lady," he
said, smiling, "takes many disguises, sometimes of the sun, sometimes
of evening, sometimes of night; and I would at least save you from
the fate that has made my poor friend a phantom before he is a shade."

XII The many men, so beautiful!

And they all dead did lie.-- S. T. Coleridge. So Reverie, as he had
promised, rode out with me a few miles to see me on my way. Above the gloom
and stillness of the valley the scene began to change again.

I was glad as I could be to view once more the tossing cornfields
and the wind at play with shadow. Near and far, woods and pastures
smoked beneath the sun.

I know not through how many arches of the elms and green folds of the meadows I kept watch on the
chimneys of a farmhouse above its trees. But Reverie, the further we journeyed, the less
he said. I almost chafed to see his heedless eyes turned upon some
inward dream, while here, like life itself, stood cloud and oak, warbled
bird and brook beneath the burning sun.

I saw again
in memory the silver twilight of the moon, and the crazy face of Love's Warrior, haunter of shade.
Let him but venture into the open, I thought, hear again the distant lowing of the oxen, the rooks
cawing in the elms, see again the flocks upon the hillside! I suppose this was her home my heart
had turned to. This was my dust; night's was his. For me the wild rose and the fields of harvest;
for him closed petals, the chantry of the night wind, phantom lutes
and voices.

And, as if he had overheard my thoughts, Reverie turned at the cross-ways.
"You will come back again," he said. "They tell me in distant lands men
worship Time, set up a shrine to him in every street, and treasure
his emblem next their hearts.

There, they say, even the lover babbles of hours, and the dreamer
measures sleep with a pendulum.

Well, my house is secluded, and the world is far; and to me Time is naught.
Return, sir, then, when it pleases you.

Besides," he added, smiling faintly, "there is always company at the World's End." The crisp
sunbeams rained upon his pale and delicate horse, its equal-plaited
mane, on the darkness of his cloak, that dream-delighted face.

Here smouldered gold, here flushed crimson, and here the curved damaskening
of his bridle glistened and gleamed.

He was a strange visitant to the open day, between the green hedges,
beneath the enormous branching of the elms.

And there I bade him farewell.

Some day, perhaps, I shall return as he has foretold, for it is ever easy to find again the house
of Reverie-- to them who have learned the way.

On I journeyed, then, following as I had been directed the main road
to Vanity Fair. But whether it is that the Fair is more difficult to
arrive at than to depart from, or is really a hard day's journey even
from the gay parlour of the World's End, it already began to be evening,
and yet no sign of bunting or booth or clamour or smoke.

And it was at length to a noiseless Fair, far from all vanity, that
I came at sunset-- the cypresses of a solitary graveyard.

I was tired out and desired only rest; so dismounting and leading
Rosinante, I turned aside willingly into its peace.

It seemed I had entered a new earth.

The lane above had wandered on in the gloaming of its hedges and over-arching trees. Here, all the
clouds of sunset stood, caught up in burning gold.

Even as I paused, dazzled a moment by the sudden radiance, from height to height the wild bright rose
of evening ran.

Not a tottering stone, black, well-nigh shapeless with age, not a green bush, but seemed to dwell
unconsumed in its own fire above this desolate ground.

The trees that grew around me-- willow and yew, thorn and poplar--
were but flaming cages for the wild birds that perched in their branches.

Above these sound-dulled mansions trod lightly, as if of thought,
Rosinante's gilded shoes. I wandered on in a strange elation of mind,
filled with a desperate desire ever to remember how flamed this rose
between earth and sky, how throbbed this jargon of delight.

And turning as if in hope to share my enthusiasm, a childish peal of
laughter showed me I was not alone.

Beneath a canopy of holly branches and yew two children sat playing. The nearer child's hair
was golden, glistening round his face of roses, and he it was who
had laughed, tumbling on the sward.

But the face of the further child was white almost as crystal, and the dark hair that encircled
his head with its curved lines seemed as it were the shadow of the gold it showed beside. These
children, it was plain, had been running and playing across the tombs;
but now they were stooping together at some earnest sport.

To me, even if they had seen me, they as yet paid no heed.

I passed slowly towards them, deeming them at first of solitude's creation, my eyes dazzled
so with the sun. But as I approached, so the branches beneath which they played gradually disparted,
and I saw not far distant from them one sitting who evidently had these
jocund boys in charge.

I could not but hesitate awhile as I surveyed them. These were no mortal children playing naked amid
the rose of evening: nor she who sat veiled and beautiful beneath
the ruinous tombs.

I turned
with sudden dismay to depart from their presence unobserved as I had entered;
but the children had now espied me, and came running, filled with
wonder of Rosinante and the stranger beside her.

They stayed at a little distance from us with dwelling eyes and parted lips.
Then the fairer and, as it seemed to me, elder of the brothers stooped
and plucked a few blades of grass and proffered them, half fearfully,
to the beast that amazed him.

But the other gave less heed to Rosinante, fixed the filmy lustre of
his eyes on me, his wonderful young face veiled with that wisdom
which is in all children, and of an immutable gravity.

But by this time, she who it seemed had the charge of these children
had followed them with her eyes.

To her then, leaving Rosinante in an ecstasy of timidity before such god-like boys, I addressed myself.
So might a traveller lost beneath strange stars address unanswering
Night.

She, however, raised a compassionate face to me and listened with happy seriousness as to a child
returned in safety at evening from some foolhardy venture. Yet there seemed only a deeper youthfulness
in her face for all its eternity of brooding on her beauteous children.
Narrow leaves of olive formed her chaplet. The darker wine-colours
of the sea changed in her eyes.

There was no sense of gloom or sorrowfulness in her company. I began to see how the same still breast
might bear celestial children so diverse as these, whose names, she told me presently, were
Sleep and Death.

I looked at the two children at play, "Ah! now," I said, almost involuntarily "the golden boy who
has caught my horse's bridle in his hand, is not he Sleep? and he who
considers his brother's boldness-- that one is Death?"

She smiled with lovely vanity, and told me how strange of heart young
children are.

How they will alter and vary, never the same for long together, but led by indiscoverable caprices
and obedient to some further will. She smiled and said how that sometimes, when the birds hush
suddenly from song, Sleep would creep tenderly and sadly to her knees,
and Death clasp her roguishly, as if in some secret with the beams
of morning.

So would
they change, one to the likeness of the other. But Sleep was, perhaps,
of the gentler disposition; a little obstinate and headstrong; at
times, indeed, beyond all cajolery; yet very sweet of impulse and
ardent to make amends.

But Death's caprices baffled even her. He seemed now so pitiless and unlovely of heart; and
now, as if possessed, passionate and swift; and now would break away burning from her arms in
an infinite tenderness. But best she loved them when there came a
transient peace to both; and looking upon them laid embraced in the
shadow-casting moonbeam, not even she could undoubtingly touch the
brow of each beneath their likened hair, and say this is the elder,
and this the dreamless younger of the boys.

Seeing, too, my eyes cast upon the undecipherable letters of the
tomb by which we sat, she told me how that once, near before dawn,
she had awoke in the twilight to find their places empty where the
children had lain at her side, and had sought on, at last to find
them even here, weeping and quarrelling, and red with anger.

Little by little, and with many tears, she had gleaned the cause of their quarrel-- how that,
like very children, they had run a race at cockcrow, and all these
stones and the slender bones and ashes beneath to be the prize; and
how that, running, both had come together to the goal set, and both
had claimed the victory.

"Yet both seem happy now to share it," I said, "or how else were they comforted?" Nor did I consider
before she told me that they will run again when they be grown men, Sleep and Death, in just
such a thick darkness before dawn; and one called Love will then run with them, who is very vehement
and fleet of foot, and never turns aside, nor falters.

And, the reader may be sure, Mr. Meeson did hold on pretty tight till, after rowing about fifty
yards, the two men halted, and proceeded, not without some risk and trouble--for there was
a considerable sea running--to hoist Mr. Meeson's large form over the gunwale of the boat.

Meanwhile, the horrors on board the doomed ship were redoubling, as she slowly settled to her
watery grave. Forward, the steam fog-horn was going unceasingly, bellowing like a thousand
furious bulls; while, now and again, a rocket still shot up through the misty morning air.
Round the boats a hideous war was being waged. Augusta saw a great number of men jump into
one of the largest life-boats, which was still hanging to the davits, having evidently got
the better of those who were attempting to fill it with the women and children. The next second
they lowered the after tackle, but, by some hitch or misunderstanding, not the foremost one;
with the result that the stern of the boat fell while the bow remained fixed, and every soul
in it, some forty or fifty people, was shot out into the water. Another boat was overturned
by a sea as it settled on the water. Another one, full of women and children, got to the water
all right, but remained fastened to the ship by the bow tackle. When, a couple of minutes afterwards,
the Kangaroo went down, nobody had a knife at hand wherewith to cut the rope, and the boat
was dragged down with her, and all its occupants drowned. The remaining boats, with the exception
of the one in which Lady Holmhurst was, and which had been got away before the rush began,
were never lowered at all, or sank as soon as lowered. It was impossible to lower them owing
to the mad behaviour of the panic-stricken crowds, who fought like wild beasts for a place
in them. A few gentlemen and sober-headed sailors could do nothing against a mob of frantic
creatures, each bent on saving his own life, if it cost the lives of all else on board.

And thus it was exactly twenty minutes from the time that the Kangaroo sank the whaler (for,
although these events have taken some time to describe, they did not take long to enact) that
her own hour came, and, with the exception of some eight-and-twenty souls, all told, the hour
also of every living creature who had taken passage in her.

CHAPTER VIII.

KERGUELEN LAND.

As soon as Mr. Meeson, saved from drowning by her intervention, lay gasping at the bottom of
the boat, Augusta, overcome by a momentary faintness, let her head fall forward on to the bundle
of blankets in which she had wrapped up the child she had rescued, and who, too terrified to
speak or cry, stared about him with wide-opened and frightened eyes. When she lifted it, a
few seconds later, a ray from the rising sun had pierced the mist, and striking full on the
sinking ship, as, her stern well out of the water and her bow well under it, she rolled sullenly
to and fro in the trough of the heavy sea, seemed to wrap her from hull to truck in wild and
stormy light. 

I dared not move, scarce wink; for much as immortality may mollify hairiness, I had no wish to
live too frank.

How, also, would this weaver who slumbered so cacophonously welcome a rival to his realms. I
say I sat still, like Echo in the woods when none is calling; like too, I grant, one who ached
not a little after jolts and jars and the phantasmal mists of this engendering air. But none
stirred, nor went, nor came. So resting my hands cautiously on a little witch's guild of toadstools
that squatted cold in shade, I lifted myself softly and stood alert.

And in a while out of that numerous company stepped one whom by his
primrose face and mien I took to be Mounsieur Mustardseed, and I followed
after him.

VI Care-charming Sleep...... sweetly thyself dispose On this afflicted
prince!-- JOHN FLETCHER.

Away with a blink of his queer green eye over his shoulder he sauntered
by a devious path out of the dell.

Forgetful of thorn and brier, trickery and wantonness, we clambered
down after him, out of the moonlight, into a dark, clear alley, soundless
and solitary amid these enchanted woods.

As I have said already, another air than that of night was abroad in the
green-grey shadows of the woods.

Yet between the lofty and heavy-hooded pines scarce a beam of dawn pierced downward. Wider
swept the avenue, but ever dusky and utterly silent.

Deeper
moss couched here; unfallen moondrops glistened; mistletoe palely sprouted from the gnarled
boughs. Nor could I discern, though I searched close enough, elder
or ash tree or bitter rue.

We journeyed
softly on till I lost all count of time, lost, too, all guidance; for as a flower falls had vanished
Mustardseed. Far away and ever increasing in volume I heard the trembling crash of some great water
falling. What narrow isles of sky were visible between the branches lay sunless and still. Yet
already, on a mantled pool we journeyed softly by, the waterlily
was unfolding, the swan afloat in beauty.

In a dim, still light we at last slowly descended out of the darker glade into a garden of grey
terraces and flowerless walks. Even Rosinante seemed perturbed by the
stillness and solitude of this wild garden.

She trod with cautious foot and peering eye the green, rainworn paths, that led us down presently to
where beneath the vault of its trees a river flowed.

Surely I could not be mistaken that here a voice was singing as if out of the black water-deeps,
so clear and hollow were the notes. I burst through the knotted stalks of the ivy, and stooping
like some poor travesty of Narcissus, with shaded face pierced down deep-- deep into eyes not my
own, but violet and unendurable and strange-- eyes of the living
water-sprite drawing my wits from me, stilling my heart, till I was
very near plunging into that crystal oblivion, to be fishes evermore.

But my fingers still grasped my friend's kind elf-locks, and her goose-nose brooded beside mine
upon that water of undivulged delight.

Out of the restless silence of the stream floated this long-drawn singing: Pilgrim forget; in this
dark tide Sinks the salt tear to peace at last; Here undeluding dreams abide, All sorrow past. Nods the wild
ivy on her stem; The voiceless bird broods on the bough; The silence and the song of them Untroubled
now.

Free that poor captive's flutterings, That struggles in thy tired eyes, Solace its discontented
wings, Quiet its cries! Knells now the dewdrop to its fall, The sad wind sleeps no more to rove;
Rest, for my arms ambrosial Ache for thy love!

I cannot think how one so meekened with hunger as I, resisted that water-troubled hair, eyes that
yet haunt me, that heart-alluring voice.

"No, no," I said faintly, and the words of Anthea came unbidden to mind, "to sleep-- oh! who would
forget?

You plead merely with some old dream of me-- not all me, you know. Gold is but witchcraft. And
as for sorrow-- spread me a magical table in this nettle-garden,
I'll leave all melancholy!"

I must indeed have been exhausted to chop logic with a water-witch.
As well argue with minnows, entreat the rustling of ivy-leaves.

It was Rosinante, wearying, I suppose, of the reflection of her own mild countenance, that drew me back
from dream and disaster.

She turned with arched neck seeking a more wholesome pasture than these deep mosses. Leaving her
then to her own devices, and yet hearkening after the voice of the
charmer, I came out again into the garden, and perceived before me
a dark palace with one lofty tower.

It seemed strange I had not seen the tower at my first coming into this wilderness. It stood
with clustered summit and stooping gargoyles, appealing as it were
to fear, in utter silence.

Though
I knew it must be day, there was scarcely more than a green twilight around me, ever deepening,
until at last I could but dimly discern the upper windows of the palace, and all sound waned
but the roar of distant falling water. Then it was I found that I was not alone in the garden. Two
little leaden children stood in an attitude of listening on either
side of the carved porch of the palace, and between them a figure
that seemed to be watching me intently.

I looked and looked again-- saw the green-grey folds, the tawny locks, the mistletoe, the unearthly
eyes of this unstirring figure, yet, when I advanced but one strenuous
pace, saw nought-- only the little leaden boys and the porch between
them.

These childish listeners, the straggling briers, the impenetrable thickets, the emerald gloaming,
the marble stillness of the lofty lichenous tower: I took courage.
Could such things be in else than Elfland?

And she who out of beauty and being vanishes and eludes, what else could she be than one of Elfland's
denizens from whom a light and credulous heart need fear nothing. I trod like a shadow where the
phantom had stood and opened the unused door.

I was about to pass into the deeper gloom of the house when a hound appeared and stood regarding
me with shining eyes in the faint gloaming. He was presently joined
by one as light-footed, but milk-white and slimmer, and both turned
their heads as if in question of their master, who had followed close
behind them.

This personage, because of the gloom, or the better to observe the
intruder on his solitude, carried a lantern whose beams were reflected
upon himself, attired as he was from head to foot in the palest primrose,
but with a countenance yet paler.

There was no hint of enmity or alarm or astonishment in the colourless
eyes that were fixed composedly on mine, nothing but courtesy in
his low voice. "Back, Safte!-- back, Sallow!" he cried softly to his
hounds; "is this your civility?

Indeed, sir," he continued to me, "it was all I could do to dissuade the creatures from giving tongue
when you first appeared on the terrace of my solitary gardens.

I heard too the water-sprite: she only sings when footsteps stray upon the banks." He smiled wanly,
and his nose seemed even sharper in his pale face, and his yellow hair leaner about his shoulders.
"I feared her voice might prove too persuasive, and deprive me of
the first strange face I have seen these many decades gone."

I bowed and murmured an apology for my intrusion, just as I might perhaps to some apparition of nightmare
that over-stayed its welcome. "I beseech you, sir," he replied, "say no more! It may be I deemed
you at first a visitor perchance even more welcome-- if it be possible,... yet I know not that either.
My name is Ennui,"-- he smiled again-- "Prince Ennui. You have, perchance,
heard somewhere our sad story.

This
is the perpetual silence wherein lies that once-happy princess, my dear sister, Sleeping Beauty."
His voice seemed but an echo amongst the walls and arches of this old house, and he spoke
with a suave enunciation as if in an unfamiliar tongue.

I replied that I had read the ever-lovely story of Sleeping Beauty, indeed knew it by heart, and assured
him modestly that I had not the least doubt of a happy ending-- "that
is, if the author be the least authority."

He narrowed his lids. "It is a tradition," he replied; "meanwhile, the thickets broaden." Whereupon
I begged him to explain how it chanced that among that festive and animated company I had read of,
he alone had resisted the wicked godmother's spell.

He smiled distantly, and bowed me into the garden. "That is a simple thing," he said. Yet for
the life of me I could not but doubt all he told me. He who could
pass spring on to spring, summer on to summer, in the company of
beasts so sly and silent, so alert and fleet as these hounds of his,
could not be quite the amiable prince he feigned to be.

I began to wish myself in homelier places. It seems that on the morning of the fatal spindle, he
had gone coursing, with this Safte and Sallow and his horse named
"Twilight," and after wearying and heating himself at the sport, a
little after noon, leaving his attendants, had set out to return to
the palace alone.

But allured by the cool seclusion of a "lattice-arbour" in his path, he had gone in, and then and
there, "Twilight" beneath the willows, his hounds at his feet, had
fallen asleep.

Undisturbed, dreamless, "the unseemly hours sped light of foot." He awoke again, between sunset and
dark; the owl astir; "the silver gnats yet netting the shadows," and so returned to the palace.
But the spell had fallen-- king and courtier, queen and lady and page and scullion, hawk and hound, slept
a sleep past waking-- "while I, roamed and roam yet in a solitary
watch beyond all sleeping.

Wherefore, sir, I only of the most hospitable house in these lands am awake to bid you welcome. But as
for that, a few dwindling and harsh fruits in my orchards, and the
cold river water that my dogs lap with me, are all that is left to
offer you.

For I who never sleep am never hungry, and they who never wake-- I presume-- never thirst. Would,
sir, it were otherwise! After such long silence, then, conceive how strangely falls your voice
on ears that have heard only wings fluttering, dismal water-songs,
and the yelp and quarrel and night-voice of unseen hosts in the forests."

He glanced at me with a mild austerity and again lowered his eyes.

I cannot now but wonder how the rhythm of a voice so soft, so monotonous, could give such pleasure
to the ear.

I almost doubted my own eyes when I looked upon his yellow, on that
unmoved, sad, mad, pale face.

I had no doubt of his dogs, however, and walked scarcely at ease
beside him, while they, shadow-footed, closely followed us at heel.

"Prince Ennui" conducted me with shining lantern into a dense orchard thickly under-grown,
marvellously green, with a small, hard fruit upon its branches, shaped like a medlar, of a
crisp, sweet odour and, despite its hardness, a delicious taste. The interwoven twigs of the
stooping trees were thickly nested; a veritable wilderness of moonlike
and starry flowers ran all to seed amid the nettles and nightshade
of this green silence.

And while I ate-- for I was hungry enough-- Prince Ennui stood, his hand on Sallow's muzzle,
lightly thridding the dusky labyrinths of the orchard with his faint green eyes. Mine, too, were not
less busy, but rather with its lord than with his orchard. And the strange thought entered my mind, Was
he in very deed the incarnation of this solitude, this silence, this lawless abundance? Somewhere,
in the green heats of summer, had he come forth, taken shape, exalted
himself?

What but vegetable ichor coursed through veins transparent as his? What but the swarming mysteries
of these thick woods lurked in his brain? As for his hounds, theirs
was the same stealth, the same symmetry, the same cold, secret unhumanity
as his.

Creatures
begotten of moonlight on silence they seemed to me, with instincts past my workaday wits to conceive.
And Rosinante! I laughed softly to think of her staid bones beside the phantom creature this prince
had called up to me at mention of "Twilight." I ate because I was ravenously hungry, but also because,
while eating, I was better at my ease. Suddenly out of the stillness, like an arrow, Safte
was gone; and far away beneath the motionless leaves a faint voice
rang dwindling into silence.

I shuddered at my probable fate. Prince Ennui glanced lightly. "When the magic horn at last resounds,"
he said, "how strange a flight it will be! These thorny briers encroach ever nearer on my palace
walls. I am a captive ever less at ease. Summer by summer the sun rises shorn yet closer of
his beams, and now the lingering transit of the moon is but from
one wood by a narrow crystal arch to another.

They will have me yet, sir. How weary will the sleepy ones be of my uneasy footfall!" And
even as Safte slipped softly back to his watching mate, the patter
and shrill menace of voices behind him hinted not all was concord
between these hidden multitudes and their unseemly prince.

The master-stars shone earlier here; already sparkling above the tower
was a canopy of clearest darkness spread, while the leafy fringes
of the sky glowed yet with changing fires.

We returned to the lawns before the palace porch, and, with his lantern in his hand, the Prince signed
to me to go in.

I was not a little curious to view that enchanted household of which I had read so often and
with so much delight as a child. In the banqueting-hall only the matted windows were visible
in the lofty walls. Prince Ennui held his lantern on high, and by its flame, and the faint light
that flowed in from above, I could presently see, distinct in gloom, as
many sleepers as even Night could desire. Here they reclined just
as sorcerous sleep had overtaken them.

But how dimmed, how fallen! For Time that could not change the sleeper had changed with quiet skill
all else. Tarnished, dusty, withered, overtaken, yellowed, and confounded
lay banquet and cloth-of-gold, flagon, cup, fine linen, table, and
stool.

But in all the ruin, like buds of springtime in a bare wood, or jewels in ashes, slumbered youth
and beauty and bravery and delight. I lifted my eyes to the King. The gold of his divinity was
fallen, his splendour quenched; but life's dark scrutiny from his
face was gone.

He made no stir at our light, slumbered untreasoned on. The lids of his Queen were lightlier sealed,
only withheld beauty as a cloud the sky it hides.

His courtiers flattered more elusively, being sincerely mute, and only a little red dust was
all the wine left. I seemed to hear their laughter clearer now that the
jest was forgotten, and to admire better the pomp, and the mirth,
and the grace, and the vanity, now that time had so far travelled
from this little tumult once their triumph.

In a kind of furtive bravado, I paced the length of the long, thronged
tables.

Here sat a little prince that captivated me, dipping his fingers into his cup with a sidelong
glance at his mother.

There a high officer, I know not how magnificent and urgent when
awake, slumbered with eyes wide open above his discouraged moustaches.

Simply for
vanity of being awake in such a sleepy company, I strutted conceitedly to and fro. I bent deftly
and pilfered a little cockled cherry from between the very fingertips
of her whose heart was doubtless like its-- quite hard.

And the bright lips never said a word.

I sat down, rather clownishly I felt, beside an aged and simpering chancellor that once had seemed
wise, but now seemed innocent, nibbling a biscuit crisp as scandal. For after all the horn would sound.
Childhood had been quite sure of that-- needed not even the author's testimony. They were alert
to rise, scattering all dust, victors over Time and outrageous Fortune.

Almost with a cry of apprehension I perceived again the solitary Prince.

But he merely smiled faintly. "You see, sir," he said, "how weary must
a guardianship be of them who never tire. The snow falls, and the
bright light falls on all these faces; yet not even my Lady Melancholy
stirs a dark lid.

And all these dog-days--" He glanced at his motionless hounds. They raised
languidly their narrow heads, whimpering softly, as if beseeching
of their master that long-delayed supper-- haplessly me.

"No, no, sirs," said the Prince, as if he had read their desire as easily
as he whom it so much concerned.

"Guard, guard, and hearken. This gentleman is not the Prince we await, Sallow; not the Prince,
Safte!

And now, sir,"-- he turned again to me-- "there is yet one other sleeper-- she who hath brought
so much quietude on a festive house." We climbed the staircase where dim light lay so invitingly,
and came presently to a little darker chamber. Green, blunt things
had pushed and burst through the casement.

The air smelled faintly-sour of brier, and was as still as boughs of snow. There the not-unhappy
Princess reclined before a looking-glass, whither I suppose she had
run to view her own alarm when the sharp needle pierced her thumb. All alarm
was stilled now on her face. She, one might think, of all that company
of the sleepy, was the only one that dreamed. Her youthful lips lay
a little asunder; the heavy beauty of her hair was parted on her
forehead; her childish hands sidled together like leverets in her
lap.

"Why!"
I cried aloud, almost involuntarily, "she breathes!" And at sound of
my voice the hounds leapt back; and, on a traveller's oath, I verily
believe, once, and how swiftly, and how fearfully and brightly, those
childish lids unsealed their light as of lilac that lay behind, glanced
briefly, fleetingly, on one who had ventured so far, and fell again to
rest. "And when," I cried harshly, "when will that laggard burst
through this agelong silence?

Here's dust
enough for all to see. And all this ruin, this inhospitable peace!"
Prince Ennui glanced strangely at me. "I assure you, O suddenly enkindled,"
he said in his suave, monotonous voice, "it is not for my indifference
he does not come.

I would willingly sleep; these-- my dear sister, all these
old fineries and love-jinglers would as fain wake." He turned away
his treacherous eyes from me. "Maybe the Lorelei hath snared him!..."
he said, smiling. I relished not at all the thought of sleeping in this
mansion of sleep.

Yet it
seemed politic to refrain from giving offence to fangs apparently so eager
to take it. Accordingly I followed this Ennui to a loftier chamber
yet that he suggested for me. Once there, however, and his soft footfall
passed away, I looked about me, first to find a means for keeping trespassers
from coming in, and next to find a means for getting myself out.
This they did willingly enough, for they were now quite sober, and very much ashamed of themselves.
Then, after giving Dick some more biscuit and four roasted eggs, which he took to wonderfully,
she went to Mr. Meeson, who was lying groaning in the hut, and persuaded him to come and sit
out in the warmth.

By this time the wretched man's condition was pitiable, for, though his strength was still
whole in him, he was persuaded that he was going to die, and could touch nothing but some rum-and-water.

"Miss Smithers," he said, as he sat shivering upon the rocks, "I am going to die in this horrible
place, and I am not fit to die! To think of me," he went on with a sudden burst of his old
fire, "to think of me dying like a starved dog in the cold, when I have two millions of money
waiting to be spent there in England! And I would give them all--yes, every farthing of them--to
find myself safe at home again! By Jove! I would change places with any poor devil of a writer
in the Hutches! Yes, I would turn author on twenty pounds a month!--that will give you some
idea of my condition, Miss Smithers! To think that I should ever live to say that I would care
to be a beggarly author, who could not make a thousand a year if he wrote till his fingers
fell off!--oh! oh!" and he fairly sobbed at the horror and degradation of the thought.

Augusta looked at the poor wretch and then bethought her of the proud creature she had known,
raging terribly through the obsequious ranks of clerks, and carrying desolation to the Hutches
and the many-headed editorial department. She looked, and was filled with reflections on the
mutability of human affairs.

Alas! how changed that Meeson!

"Yes," he went on, recovering himself a little, "I am going to die in this horrible place,
and all my money will not even give me a decent funeral. Addison and Roscoe will get it--confound
them!--as though they had not got enough already. It makes me mad when I think of those Addison
girls spending my money, or bribing Peers to marry them with it, or something of that sort.
I disinherited my own nephew, Eustace, and kicked him out to sink or swim; and now I can't
undo it, and I would give anything to alter it! We quarrelled about you, Miss Smithers, because
I would not give you any more money for that book of yours. I wish I had given it to you--anything
you wanted. I didn't treat you well; but, Miss Smithers, a bargain is a bargain. It would never
have done to give way, on principle. You must understand that, Miss Smithers. Don't revenge
yourself on me about it, now that I am helpless, because, you see, it was a matter of principle."

"I am not in the habit of revenging myself, Mr. Meeson," answered Augusta, with dignity; "but
I think that you have done a very wicked thing to disinherit your nephew in that fashion, and
I don't wonder that you feel uncomfortable about it."

The expression of this vigorous opinion served to disturb Mr. Meeson's conscience all the more,
and he burst out into laments and regrets.

"Well," said Augusta at last, "if you don't like your will you had better alter it. There are
enough of us here to witness a will, and, if anything happens to you, it will override the
other--will it not?"

This was a new idea, and the dying man jumped at it.

"Of course, of course," he said; "I never thought of that before. I will do it at once, and
cut Addison and Roscoe out altogether. Eustace shall have every farthing. I never thought of
that before. Come, give me your hand; I'll get up and see about it."

"Stop a minute," said Augusta. "How are you going to write a will without pen or pencil, or
paper or ink?"

Mr. Meeson sank back with a groan. This difficulty had not occurred to him.

"Are you sure nobody has got a pencil and a bit of paper?" he asked. "It would do, so long
as the writing remained legible."

"I don't think so," said Augusta, "but I will inquire." Accordingly she went and asked Bill
and Johnnie: but neither of them had a pencil or a single scrap of paper, and she returned
sadly to communicate the news.

"I have got it, I have got it," said Mr. Meeson, as she approached the spot where he lay upon
the rock. "If there is no paper or pen, we must write it in blood upon some linen. We can make
a pen from the feathers of a bird. I read somewhere in a book of somebody who did that. It
will do as well as anything else."

Here was an idea, indeed, and one that Augusta jumped at. But in another moment her enthusiasm
received a check. Where was there any linen to write on?

"Yes," she said, "if you can find some linen. You have got on a flannel shirt, so have the
two sailors, and little Dick is dressed in flannel, too."

It was a fact. As it happened, not one of the party had a scrap of linen on them, or anything
that would answer the purpose. Indeed, they had only one pocket-handkerchief between them,
and it was a red rag full of holes. Augusta had had one, but it had blown overboard when they
were in the boat. What would they not have given for that pocket-handkerchief now!

"Yes," said Mr. Meeson, "it seems we have none. I haven't even get a bank-note, or I might
have written in blood upon that; though I have got a hundred sovereigns in gold--I grabbed
them up before I bolted from the cabin. But I say--excuse me, Miss Smithers, but--um--ah--oh!
hang modesty--haven't you got some linen on, somewhere or other, that you could spare a bit
of? You shan't lose by giving it to me. There, I promise that I will tear up the agreement
if ever I get out of this--which I shan't--which I shan't--and I will write on the linen that
it is to be torn up. Yes, and that you are to have five thousand pounds legacy too, Miss Smithers.
Surely you can spare me a little bit--just off the skirt, or somewhere, you know, Miss Smithers?
It never will be missed, and it is so very important."

Augusta blushed, and no wonder. "I am sorry to say I have nothing of the sort about me, Mr.
Meeson--nothing except flannel," she said. And a merry little smile passed over her lips. "That
will be a long time since," she said, "and I must be off home." And as if it had been but an
apparition of my eyes that had beset and deluded me, she was gone;
and I found myself sitting astride in the full brightness of the sun's
first beams, alone.

What omen was this, then, that I should meet first a phantom on my
journey?

One thing only was clear: Rosinante could trust to her five wits
better than I to mine.

So leaving her to take what way she pleased, I rode on, till at length
we approached the woods I had descried.

Presently we were jogging gently down into a deep and misty valley flanked by bracken and pines,
from which issued into the crisp air of morning a most delicious
aromatic smell, that seemed at least to prove this valley not far
remote from Araby.

I do not think I was disturbed, though I confess to having been a little amazed to see how profound
this valley was into which we were descending, yet how swiftly climbed the sun, as if to pace
with us so that we should not be in shadow, howsoever fast we journeyed. I was astonished to
see flowers of other seasons than summer by the wayside, and to hear
in June, for no other month could bear such green abundance, the thrush
sing with a February voice.

Here too, almost at my right hand, perched a score or more of robins, bright-dyed, warbling elvishly
in chorus as if the may-boughs whereon they sat were white with hoarfrost and not buds. Birds
also unknown to me in voice and feather I saw, and little creatures in fur, timid yet not
wild; fruits, even, dangled from the trees, as if, like the bramble,
blossom and seed could live here together and prosper.

Yet why should I be distracted by these things, thought I. I remembered Maundeville and Hithlodaye,
Sindbad and Gulliver, and many another citizen of Thule, and was
reassured.

A man must either believe what he sees, or see what he believes; I know no other course. Why,
too, should I mistrust the bounty of the present merely for the scarcity
of the past?

Not I! I rode on, and it seemed had advanced but a few miles before
the sun stood overhead, and it was noon.

We were growing weary, I think, of sheer delight: Rosinante, with her mild face beneath its
dark forelock gazing this side, that side, at the uncustomary landscape; and I ever peering
forward beneath my hat in eagerness to descry some living creature
a little bigger than these conies and squirrels, to prove me yet in
lands inhabited.

But the sun was wheeling headlong, and the stillness of late afternoon
on the woods, when, dusty and parched and heavy, we came to a break
in the thick foliage, and presently to a green gate embowered in box.

"'Pon my word," said Mr. Meeson, "you are a wonderful woman! Whoever would have thought of
such a thing except a woman? Go and ask the man Johnnie, there's a good girl, if he would mind
my will being tattooed upon his back."

"Well," said Augusta; "it's a queer sort of message; but I'll try." Accordingly, taking little
Dick by the hand, she went across to where the two sailors were sitting outside their hut,
and putting on her sweetest smile, first of all asked Mr. Bill if he would mind doing a little
tattooing for her. To this Mr. Bill, finding time hang heavy upon his hands, and wishing to
be kept out of the temptation of the rum-cask, graciously assented, saying that he had seen
some sharp fish-bones lying about which would be the very thing, though he shook his head at
the idea of using gunpowder as the medium. He said it would not do at all well, and then, as
though suddenly seized by an inspiration, started off down to the shore.

Then Augusta, as gently and nicely as she could, approached the question with Johnnie, who
was sitting with his back against the hut, his battered countenance wearing a peculiarly ill-favored
expression, probably owing to the fact that he was suffering from severe pain in his head,
as a result of the debauch of the previous night.

Slowly and with great difficulty, for his understanding was none of the clearest, she explained
to him what was required; and that it was suggested that he should provide the necessary corpus
vile upon which it was proposed that the experiment should be made. When at last he understood
what it was asked that he should do, Johnnie's countenance was a sight to see, and his language
was more striking than correct. The upshot of it was, however, that he would see Mr. Meeson
collectively, and Mr. Meeson's various members separately, especially his eyes, somewhere first.

Augusta retreated till his wrath had spent itself, and then once more returned to the charge.

She was sure, she said, that Mr. Johnnie would not mind witnessing the document, if anybody
else could be found to submit to the pain of the tattooing. All that would be necessary would
be for him to touch the hand of the operator while his (Johnnie's) name was tattooed as witness
to the will. "Well," he said, "I don't know how as I mind doing that, since it's you as asked
me, Miss, and not the d----d old hulks of a Meeson. I would not lift a finger to save him from
'ell Miss, and that's a fact!"

"Then that is a promise, Mr. Johnnie?" said Augusta, sweetly ignoring the garnishing with which
the promise was adorned; and on Mr. Johnnie stating that he looked at it in that light, she
returned to Mr. Meeson. On her way she met Bill, carrying in his hands a loathsome-looking
fish, with long feelers and a head like a parrot, in short, a cuttle-fish.

"Now, here's luck, Miss," said Bill, exultingly; "I saw this gentleman lying down on the beach
there this morning. He's a cuttle, that's what he is; and I'll have his ink-bag out of him
in a brace of shakes; just the ticket for tattooing, Miss, as good as the best Indian-ink--gunpowder
is a fool to it."

By this time they had reached Mr. Meeson, and here the whole matter, including Johnnie's obstinate
refusal to be tattooed was explained to Bill.

"Well," said Augusta at length, "it seems that's the only thing to be done; but the question
is, how to do it? I can only suggest, Mr. Meeson, that the will should be tattooed on you."

"Oh!" said Mr. Meeson, feebly, "on me! Me tattooed like a savage--tattooed with my own will!"

"It wouldn't be much use, either, governor, begging your pardon," said Bill, "that is, if you
are agoing to croak, as you say; 'cause where would the will be then? We might skin you with
a sharp stone, perhaps, after you've done the trick, you know," he added reflectively. "But
then we have no salt, so I doubt if you'd keep; and if we set your hide in the sun, I reckon
the writing would shrivel up so that all the courts of law in London could not make head or
tail of it."

Mr. Meeson groaned loudly, as well he might. These frank remarks would have been trying to
any man; much more were they so to this opulent merchant prince, who had always set the highest
value on what Bill rudely called his "hide."

"There's the infant," went on Bill, meditatively. "He's young and white, and I fancy his top-crust
would work wonderful easy; but you'd have to hold him, for I expect that he'd yell proper."

"Yes," said Mr. Meeson; "let the will be tattooed upon the child. He'd be some use that way."

"Yes," said Bill; "and there'd allus be something left to remind me of a very queer time, provided
he lives to get out of it, which is doubtful. Cuttle-ink won't rub out, I'll warrant." 

One Draught, one Feast, One Wench, one Tomb; And thou must straight To ashes come: Drink, eat, and
sleep; Why fret and pine? Death can but snatch What ne'er was thine:
Follow the World!

It died away, I say, and an ostler softly appeared out of the shadow. Into his charge, then, I
surrendered Rosinante, and followed my inarticulate acquaintance into the noise and heat and
lustre of the Inn.

It was a numerous company there assembled. But their voices fell to a man on the entry of a
stranger. They scrutinised me, not uncivilly, but closely, seeking my badge, as it were by
which to recognise and judge me ever after.

Mr. Mistrust, as I presently discovered my guide's name indeed to
be, was volubly explaining how I came into his company.

They listened intently to what, so far as I could gather, might be
Houyhnhnmish or Double-Dutch.

And then, as if to show me to my place forthwith, a great fleshy
fellow that sat close beside the hearth this summer evening continued
in a loud voice the conversation I had interrupted.

Whereupon Mr. Mistrust with no little confidence commended me in dumb
show to the landlady of the Inn, a Mrs. Nature, if I understood him
aright.

This person was still comely, though of uncertain age, wore cherry ribbons, smiled rather vacantly
from vague, wonderful, indescribable eyes that seemed to change colour, like the chameleon,
according to that they dwelt on.

I am afraid, as much to my amusement as wonder, I discovered that
this landlady of so much apparent bonhomie was a deaf-mute.

If victuals, or drink, or bed were required, one must chalk it down
on a little slate she carried at her girdle for the purpose.

Indeed, the absence of two of her three chief senses had marvellously sharpened the remaining
one. Her eyes were on all, vaguely dwelling, lightly gone, inscrutable, strangely fascinating.
She moved easily and soundlessly (as fat women may), and I doubt if ever mug or pot of any
of that talkative throng remained long empty, except at the tippler's
reiterated request.

She laid before me an excellent supper on a little table somewhat
removed beside a curtained window.

And while I ate I watched, and listened, not at all displeased with
my entertainment.

The room in which we sat was low-ceiled and cheerful, but rather close after the rainy night-air.
Gay pictures beautified the walls. Here a bottle, a cheese, grapes, a hare, a goblet-- in a clear
brown light that made the guest's mouth water to admire. Here a fine gentleman toasting a simpering
chambermaid. Above the chimney-piece a bloated old man in vineleaves that might be Silenus.
And over against the door of the parlour what I took to be a picture
of Potiphar's wife, she looked out of the paint so bold and beauteous
and craftily.

Birds and fishes in cases stared glassily,-- owl and kestrel, jack and eel and gudgeon. All was
clean and comfortable as a hospitable inn can be.

But they who frequented it interested me much more-- as various and animated a gathering as
any I have seen. Yet in some peculiar manner they seemed one and
all not to the last tittle quite of this world.

They were, so to speak, more earthy, too definite, too true to the mould, like figures in a
bleak, bright light viewed out of darkness. Certainly not one of them was at first blush prepossessing.
Yet who finds much amiss with the fox at last, though all he seems
to have be cunning?

Near beside me, however, sat retired a man a little younger and more at his ease than most of the
many there, and as busy with his eyes and ears as I. His name, I learned presently, was Reverie;
and from him I gathered not a little information regarding the persons who talked and sipped around
us.

He told me at whiles that his house was not in the village, but in
a valley some few miles distant across the meadows; that he sat out
these bouts of argument and slander for the sheer delight he had in
gathering the myriad strands of that strange rope Opinion; that he
lived (heart, soul, and hope) well-nigh alone; that he deeply mistrusted
this place, and the company we were in, yet not for its mistress's
sake, who was at least faithful to her instincts, candid to the candid,
made no favourites, and, eventually, compelled order.

He told me also that if friends he had, he deemed it wiser not to
name them, since the least sibilant of the sound of the voice incites
to treachery; and in conclusion, that of all men he was acquainted
with, one at least never failed to right his humour; and that one
was yonder flabby, pallid fellow with the velvet collar to his coat,
and the rings on his fingers, and the gold hair, named Pliable, who
sat beside Mr. Stubborn on the settle by the fire.

When, then, I had finished my supper, I drew in my chair a little closer to Mr. Reverie's and,
having scribbled my wants on the Landlady's slate, turned my attention
to the talk.

At the moment when I first began to listen attentively they seemed
to be in heated dispute concerning the personal property of a certain
Mr. Christian, who was either dead or had inexplicably disappeared.

Mr. Obstinate, I gathered, had taken as his right this Christian's "easy-chair"; a gentleman
named Smoothman most of his other goods for a debt; while a Parson Decorum had appropriated
as heretical his books and various peculiar MSS.

But there now remained in question a trifling sum of money which a Mr. Liar loudly demanded
in payment of an "affair of honour."

This, however, he seemed little likely to obtain, seeing that an elderly uncle by marriage of Christian's,
whose name was Office, was as eager and affable and frank about the sum as he was bent on
keeping it; and rattled the contents of his breeches'pocket in sheer
bravado of his means to go to law for it.

"He left a bare pittance, the merest pittance," he said. "What could there be of any account?
Christian despised money, professed to despise it. That alone would prove my wretched nephew
queer in the head-- despised money!"

Tush, friend! "cried Obstinate from his corner." Whether the money is yours, or neighbour
Liar's-- and it is as likely as not neither's-- that talk about despising money's what but
a silly lie?'Twas all sour grapes-- sour grapes. He had cunning enough for envy, and pride enough
for shame; and at last there was naught but cunning left wherewith to patch up a clout for
him and his shame to be gone in. I watched him set out on his pestilent pilgrimage, crazed
and stubborn, and not a groat to call his own.

"" Yet I have heard say he came of a moneyed stock, "said Pliable." The Sects of Privy Opinion were
rare wealthy people, and they, so'tis said, were his kinsmen. Truth is, for aught I know, Christian
must have been in some degree a very liberal rascal, with all his
faults. "He tittered."

Oh! he was liberal enough, "said Mr. Malice suavely:" why, even on setting out, he emptied his
wife's purse into a blind beggar's hat!-- his that used to bleat,'Cast thy bread-- cast thy
bread upon the waters!'whensoever he spied Christian stepping along the street. They say, "he added,
burying his clever face in his mug," the Heavenly Jerusalem lieth
down by the weir.

"" But we must not contemn a man for his poverty, neighbours, "said Liar, gravely composing his
hairless face." Christian's was a character of beautiful simplicity-- beautiful! How many rickety
children did he leave behind him?

"A shrill voice called somewhat I could not quite distinguish, for
at that moment a youth rose abruptly near by, and went hastily out.

Obstinate stared roundly." Thou hast a piercing voice, friend Liar!

"" I did but seek the truth, "said Liar."

But whether or no, Christian believed in it-- verily he seemed to believe in it. Was it not so,
neighbour Obstinate? "enquired Pliable, stroking his leg."

Believed in what, my friend? "said Obstinate, in a dull voice."

About Mount Zion, and the Crowns of Glory, and the Harps of Gold, and such like, "said Pliable
uneasily--" at least, it is said so; so'tis said.

"" Believed! "retorted a smooth young man who seemed to feel the heat, and sat by the staircase
door." That's an easy task-- to believe, sir. Ask any pretty minikin!

"" And I'd make bold to enquire of yonder Liveloose, "said a thick, monotonous voice (a Mr. Dull's,
so Reverie informed me)," if mebbe he be referring to one of his own, or that fellow Sloth's devilish
fairy tales? I know one yet he'll eat again some day.

"At which remark all laughed consumedly, save Dull."

Well, one thing Christian had, and none can deny it, "said Pliable, a little hotly," and that was
Imagination? I shan't forget the tales he was wont to tell: what
say you, Superstition?

"Mr. Superstition lifted dark, rather vacant eyes on Pliable." Yes, yes, "he said:" Flame, and sigh,
and lamentation. My God, my God, gentlemen!

"" Oo-ay, Oo-ay, "yelped the voice of Mistrust, startled out of silence."

Oo-ay, "whistled Malice, under his breath."

Tush, tush! "broke in Obstinate again, and snapped his fingers in the air." And what is this
precious Imagination? Whither doth it conduct a man, but to beggary, infamy, and the mad-house?
Look ye to it, friend Pliable!'Tis a devouring flame; give it but
wind and leisure, the fairest house is ashes.

"" Ashes; ashes!

"mocked one called Cruelty, who had more than once taken my attention
with his peculiar contortions--" talking of ashes, what of Love-the-log
Faithful, Master Tongue-stump? What of Love-the-log Faithful?

"At which Liveloose was so extremely amused, the tears stood in his
eyes for laughing.

I looked round for Mistrust, and easily recognised my friend by his
hare-like face, and the rage in his little active eyes.

       But unfortunately, as I turned to enquire somewhat of Reverie, Liveloose
suddenly paused in his merriment with open mouth; and the whole company
heard my question," But who was Love-the-log Faithful?

"I was at once again the centre of attention, and Mr. Obstinate rose very laboriously from his
settle and held out a great hand to me." I'm pleased to meet thee,
"he said, with a heavy bow."

There's a dear heart with my good neighbour Superstition yonder who will present a very fair
account of that misguided young man.

Madam Wanton, here's a young gentleman that never heard tell of our old friend Love-the-log. "A shrill
peal of laughter greeted this sally." Why, Faithful was a young
gentleman, sir, "explained the woman civilly enough," who preferred
his supper hot.

"" Oh, Madam Wanton, my dear, my dear! "cried a long-nosed woman nearly
helpless with amusement.

I saw Superstition gazing darkly at me.

He shook his head as I was about to reply, so I changed my retort." Who, then, was Mr. Christian?
"I enquired simply.

At that the house shook with the roar of laughter that went up.

X... Large draughts of intellectual day.-- RICHARD CRASHAW."

Believe me, neighbours, "said Malice softly, when this uproar was a little abated," there is nought
so strange in the question.

It meaneth only that this young gentleman hath not enjoyed the pleasure
of your company before.

Will it amaze you to learn, my friends, that Christian is like to
be immortal only because you talk him out of the grave?

One brief epitaph, gentlemen, would let him rot.

""

Nay, but I'll tell the gentleman who Christian was, and with pleasure, "cried a lucid, rather
sallow little man that had sat quietly smiling and listening." My name, let me tell you, is Atheist,
sir; and Christian was formerly a very near neighbour of an old friend of my family's-- Mr. Sceptic.
They lived, sir-- at least in those days-- opposite to one another. "" He is a great talker, "whispered
Reverie in my ear.

But the company evidently found his talk to their taste. They sat as still and attentive around
him, as though before an extemporary preacher."

Well, sir, "continued Atheist," being, in a sense, neighbours, Christian in his youth would often
confide in my friend; though, assuredly, Sceptic never sought his
confidences.

And it seemeth he began to be perturbed and troubled over the discovery that it is impossible--
at least in this plain world-- to eat your cake, yet have it. And by some ill chance he happened
at this time on a mouldy old folio in my friend's house that had
been the property of his maternal grandmother-- the subtlest old tome
you ever set eyes on, though somewhat too dark and extravagant and
heady for a sober man of the world like me.'Twas called the Bible,
sir-- a collection of legends and fables of all times, tongues, and
countries threaded together, mighty ingeniously I grant, and in as
plausible a style as any I know, if a little lax and flowery in parts.

"Well, Christian borroweth the book of my friend-- never to return it. And being feeble and credulous,
partly by reason of his simple wits, and partly by reason of the
sad condition a froward youth had reduced him to, he accepts the
whole book-- from Apple to Vials-- for truth.

In fact,'he ate the little book,'as one of the legendary kings it celebrates had done before him."
"Ay," broke in Cruelty wildly, "and has ever since gotten the gripes." Atheist inclined his
head. "Putting it coarsely, gentlemen, such was the case," he said. "And away at his wit's end he
hasteneth, waning and shivering, to a great bog or quagmire-- that my friend
Pliable will answer to-- and plungeth in.'Tis the same story repeated.
He could be temperate in nought.

I knew the bog well; but I knew the stepping-stones better. Believe me, I have traversed the narrow
way this same Christian took, seeking the harps and pearls and the
elixir vitæ, these many years past. The book inciteth ye to it.

It sets a man's heart on fire-- that's weak enough to read it-- with its pomp, and rhetoric, and far-away
promises, and lofty counsels. Oh, fine words, who is not their puppet!
I climbed'Difficulty.'I snapped my fingers at the grinning Lions. I passed
cautiously through the'Valley of the Shadow'-- wild scenery, sir!

I visited that prince of bubbles also, Giant Despair, in his draughty
castle.

And--
though boasting be far from me!-- fetched Liveloose's half-brother
out of a certain charnel-house near by."

Thus far, sir, I went.

But I have not yet found the world so barren of literature as to write a book about it. I have
not yet found the world so barren of ingratitude as to seek happiness by stabbing in the back every
friend I ever had.

I have not yet forsaken wife and children; neighbours and kinsmen; home, ease, and tenderness,
for a whim, a dream, a passing qualm. No, sir;'tis this Christian's ignorant hardness-of-heart that
is his bane. Knowing little, he prateth much. He would pinch and contract the Universe to his own
fantastical pattern. He is tedious, he is pragmatical, and-- I affirm
it in all sympathy and sorrow-- he is crazed.

Malice, haply, is a little sharp at times. And neighbour Obstinate dealeth full weight with
his opinions. But this Christian Flown-to-Glory, as the urchins say, pinks with a bludgeon. He cannot
endure an honest doubt. He distorteth a mere difference of opinion into a roaring Tophet. And because
he is helpless, solitary, despised in the world; because he is impotent
to refute, and too stubborn to hear and suffer people a little higher
and weightier, a leetle wiser than he-- why, beyond the grave he must
set his hope in vengeance.

Beyond the grave-- bliss for his own shade; fire and brimstone, eternal
woe for theirs.

Ay, and'tis not but for a season will he vex us, but for ever, and for ever, and for ever-- if
he knoweth in the least what he meaneth by the phrase. And this he calls'Charity.'"Yes, sirs, beyond
the grave he would condemn us, beyond the grave-- a place of peace whereto I deem there are not
many here but will be content at length to come; and I not least content, when my duty is done,
my children provided for, and my last suspicion of fear and folly suppressed." To conclude, sir--
and beshrew me, gentlemen, how time doth fly in talk!-- this Christian goeth his way. We, each
in accord with his caprice and conscience, go ours.

We envy him not his vapours, his terrors, or his shameless greed of reward. Why, then, doth he
envy us our wealth, our success, our gaiety, our content? He raves. He is haunted. What is man but
as grass, and the flower of grass? Come the sickle, he is clean gone. I can but repeat it, sir,
our poor neighbour was crazed:'tis Christian in a word. "A sigh, a murmur of satisfaction and
relief, rose from the company, as if one and all had escaped by Mr.
Atheist's lucidity out of a very real peril.

I thanked him for his courtesy, and in some confusion turned to Reverie with the remark that
I thought I now recollected to have heard Christian's name, but understood he had indeed arrived, at
last, at the Celestial City for which he had set out." Celestial
twaddle, sir!

"cried Mr. Obstinate hoarsely." He went stark, staring mad, and now is dust, as we shall soon all be,
that's certain. "Then Cruelty rose out of his chair and elbowed his way to the door. He opened
it and looked out." I would, "he said," I had known of this Christian
before he started.

Step
you down to Vanity Fair, Sir Stranger, if the mood take you; and we'll show you as pretty a persuasion
against pilgrimage as ever you saw.

"He opened his mouth where he stood between me and the stars."... There's many more! "he added
with difficulty, as if his rage was too much for him. He spat into the air and went out. Presently
after Liveloose rose up, smiling softly, and groped after him. A little silence followed their
departure."

You must tell your friend, Mr. Reverie, "said Atheist good-humouredly,"
that Mr. Cruelty says more than he means. To my mind he is mistaken--
too energetic; but his intentions are good.

"" He's a staunch, dependable fellow, "said Obstinate, patting down the
wide cuffs he wore. But even at that moment a stranger softly entered the
inn out of the night. His face was of the grey of ashes, and he looked
once round on us all with a still, appalling glance that silenced
the words on my lips.

We sat without speech-- Obstinate yawning,
Atheist smiling lightly, Superstition nibbling his nails, Reverie
with chin drawn a little back, Pliable bolt upright, like a green
and white wand, Mistrust blinking his little thin lids; but all with
eyes fixed on this stranger, who deemed himself, it seemed, among
friends.

He turned his back on us
and sipped his drink under the heedless, deep, untroubled gaze of
Mrs. Nature, and passed out softly and harmlessly as he had come in.

Reverie stood up like a man surprised and ill at ease. He turned
to me." I know him only by repute, by hearsay, "he said with an effort."
He is a stranger to us all, indeed, sir-- to all. "Obstinate, with
a very flushed face, thrust his hand into his breeches'pocket." Nay,
sir, "he said," my purse is yet here. What more would you have? "At
which Pliable laughed, turning to the women.

I put on
my hat and followed Reverie to the door."

Excuse
me, sir, "I said," but I have no desire to stay in this house over-night.

And if you would kindly direct
me to the nearest way out of the village, I will have my horse saddled
now and be off. "And then I noticed that Superstition stood in the
light of the doorway looking down on us."

There's Christian's way, "he said, as if
involuntarily...."

Lodge with me to-night,
"Reverie answered," and in the morning you shall choose which way to
go you will. "I thanked him heartily and turned in to find Rosinante.
The night was now fine, but moist and sultry, and misty in the distance.

It
was late, too, for few candles gleamed beneath the moonlight from the windows
round about the smooth village-green. Even as we set out, I leading
Rosinante by her bridle, and Superstition on my left hand, out of heavenly
Leo a bright star wheeled, fading as it fell. And soon high hedges hid utterly
the"

World's End "behind us, out of sight and
sound. I observed when the trees had laid their burdened branches overhead,
and the thick-flowered bushes begun to straiten our way, that this
Mr. Superstition who had desired to accompany us was of a very different
courage from that his manner at the inn seemed to profess.

He walked with
almost as much caution and ungainliness as Mistrust, his deep and
shining eyes busily searching the gloom to left and right of him.
Indeed, those same dark eyes of his reminded me not a little of Mrs.
Nature's, they were so full of what they could not tell.

When she had recovered herself they set to collecting eggs, an occupation which, notwithstanding
the screams and threatened attacks of the birds, delighted Dick greatly. Soon they had as many
as she could carry; so they went back to the hut and lit a fire of drift-wood, and roasted
some eggs in the hot ashes; she had no pot to boil them in. Thus, one way and another the day
wore away, and at last the darkness began to fall over the rugged peaks behind and the wild
wilderness of sea before. She put Dick to bed and he went off to sleep. Indeed, it was wonderful
to see how well the child bore the hardships through which they were passing. He never had
an ache or a pain, or even a cold in the head.

After Dick was asleep Augusta sat, or rather lay, in the dark listening to the moaning of the
wind as it beat upon the shanty and passed away in gusts among the cliffs and mountains beyond.
The loneliness was something awful, and together with the thought of what the end of it would
probably be, quite broke her spirit down. She knew that the chances of her escape were small
indeed. Ships did not often come to this dreadful and uninhabited coast, and if one should
happen to put in there, it was exceedingly probable that it would touch at some other point
and never see her or her flag. And then in time the end would come. The supply of eggs would
fail, and she would be driven to supporting life upon such birds as she could catch, till at
last the child sickened and died, and she followed it to that dim land that lies beyond Kerguelen
and the world. She prayed that the child might die first. It was awful to think that perhaps
it might be the other way about: she might die first, and the child might be left to starve
beside her. The morrow would be Christmas Day. Last Christmas Day she had spent with her dead
sister at Birmingham. She remembered that they went to church in the morning, and after dinner
she had finished correcting the last revises of "Jemima's Vow." Well, it seemed likely that
long before another Christmas came she would have gone to join little Jeannie. And then, being
a good and religious girl, Augusta rose to her knees and prayed to Heaven with all her heart
and soul to rescue them from their terrible position, or, if she was doomed to perish, at least
to save the child.

And so the long cold night wore away in thought and vigil, till at last, some two hours before
the dawn, she got to sleep. When she opened her eyes again it was broad daylight, and little
Dick, who had been awake some time beside her, was sitting up playing with the shell which
Bill and Johnnie had used to drink rum out of. She rose and put the child's things a little
to rights, and then, as it was not raining, told him to run outside while she went through
the form of dressing by taking off such garments as she had, shaking them, and putting them
on again. She was slowly going through this process, and wondering how long it would be before
her shoulders ceased to smart from the effects of the tattooing, when Dick came running in
without going through the formality of knocking.

"Oh, Auntie! Auntie!" he sang out in high glee, "here's a big ship coming sailing along. Is
it Mummy and Daddie coming to fetch Dick?"

Augusta sank back faint with the sudden revulsion of feeling. If there was a ship, they were
saved--snatched from the very jaws of death. But perhaps it was the child's fancy. She threw
on the body of her dress; and, her long yellow hair--which she had in default of better means
been trying to comb out with a bit of wood--streaming behind her, she took the child by the
hand, and flew as fast as she could go down the little rocky promontory off which Bill and
Johnnie had met their end. Before she got half-way down it, she saw that the child's tale was
true--for there, sailing right up the fjord from the open sea, was a large vessel. She was
not two hundred yards from where she stood, and her canvas was being rapidly furled preparatory
to the anchor being dropped.

Thanking Providence for the sight as she never thanked anything before, Augusta sped on till
she got to the extreme point of the promontory, and stood there waving Dick's little cap towards
the vessel, which moved slowly and majestically on, till presently, across the clear water,
came the splash of the anchor, followed by the sound of the fierce rattle of the chain through
the hawse-pipes. Then there came another sound--the glad sound of human voices cheering. She
had been seen.

Five minutes passed, and then she saw a boat lowered and manned. The oars were got out, and
presently it was backing water within ten paces of her.

"Go round there," she called, pointing to the little bay, "and I will meet you."

By the time that she had got to the spot the boat was already beached, and a tall, thin, kindly-faced
man was addressing her in an unmistakable Yankee accent, "Cast away, Miss?" he said interrogatively.

"Yes," gasped Augusta; "we are the survivors of the Kangaroo, which sank in a collision with
a whaler about a week ago."

"Ah!" said the captain, "with a whaler? Then I guess that's where my consort has gone to. She's
been missing about a week, and I put in here to see if I could get upon her tracks--also to
fill up with water. Well, she was well insured, anyway, and when last we spoke her, she had
made a very poor catch. But perhaps, Miss, you will, at your convenience, favour me with a
few particulars?"

Accordingly, Augusta sketched the history of their terrible adventure in as few words as possible;
and the tale was one that made even the phlegmatic Yankee captain stare. But Chance-- avenger
of all shilly-shally-- settled the matter offhand. For my traveller, after casting one comprehensive
glance towards the skies, suddenly whisked off at a canter that quickly
carried him out of sight.

A chill wind had begun to blow, lifting in gusts dust into the air and whitening the tree-tops.
As suddenly, calm succeeded. A cloud of flies droned fretfully about my ears. And I watched advancing,
league-high, transfigured with sunbeams, the enormous gloom of storm. The sun smote from a silvery haze
upon its peaks and gorges. Wind, far above the earth, moaned, and fell; only to sound once more
in the distance in a mournful trumpeting. Lightnings played along the desolate hills. The sun
was darkened. A vast flight of snowy, arrow-winged birds streamed voiceless beneath his place.
And day withdrew its boundaries, spread to the nearer forests a bright amphitheatre, fitful with
light, whereof it seemed to me Rosinante with her poor burden was the centre and the butt. I
confess I began to dread lest even my mere surmise of danger should
engage the piercing lightnings; as if in the mystery of life storm
and a timorous thought might yet be of a kin.

We hastened on at the most pathetic of gallops.

Nor seemed indeed the beauteous lightning to regard at all that restless mote upon the cirque
of its entranced fairness. In an instantaneous silence I heard a tiny beat of hoofs; in instantaneous gloom recognised
almost with astonishment my own shape bowed upon the saddle. It was a majestic entry into a
kingdom so far-famed.

The storm showed no abatement when at last I found shelter. From far away I had espied in the immeasurable
glare a country barn beneath trees. Arrived there, I almost fell off my horse into as incongruous
and lighthearted a company as ever was seen.

In the midst of the floor of the barn, upon a heap of hay, sat a fool in motley blowing with
all his wind into a pipe. It was a cunning tune he played too, rich and heady. And so seemed the
company to find it, dancers-- some thirty or more-- capering round him with all the abandon heart
can feel and heel can answer to. As for pose, he whose horse now stood smoking beside my own
first drew my attention-- a smooth, small-bearded, solemn man, a little beyond his prime. He
lifted his toes with such inimitable agility, postured his fingers so daintily, conducted
his melon-belly with so much elegance, and exhaled such a warm joy in the sport that I could
look at nothing else at first for delight in him.

But there were slim maids too among the plumper and ruddier, like crocuses, like lilac, like
whey, with all their fragrance and freshness and lightness. Such eyes adazzle dancing with mine,
such nimble and discreet ankles, such gimp English middles, and such a gay delight in the mere
grace of the lilting and tripping beneath rafters ringing loud with
thunder, that Pan himself might skip across a hundred furrows for
sheer envy to witness.

As for the jolly rustics that were jogging their wits away with such delightful gravity, but little
time was given me to admire them ere I also was snatched into the
ring, and found brown eyes dwelling with mine, and a hand like lettuces
in the dog-days.

Round and about we skipped in the golden straw, amidst treasuries of hay, puffing and spinning.
And the quiet lightnings quivered between the beams, and the monstrous "Ah!" of the thunder
submerged the pipe's sweetness.

Till at last all began to gasp and blow indeed, and the nodding Fool to sip, and sip, as if
in extremis over his mouthpiece. Then we rested awhile, with a medley of shrill laughter and guffaws,
while the rain streamed lightning-lit upon the trees and tore the
clouds to tatters.

With some little circumstance my traveller picked his way to me, and with a grave civility
bowed me a sort of general welcome. Whereupon ensued such wit and banter as made me thankful when
the opening impudence of a kind of jig set the heels and the petticoats of the company tossing
once more. We danced the lightning out, and piped the thunder from the skies. And by then
I was so faint with fasting, and so deep in love with at least five young country faces, that
I scarcely knew head from heels; still less, when a long draught
of a kind of thin, sweet ale had mounted to its sphere.

Away we all trooped over the flashing fields, noisy as jays in the
fresh, sweet air, some to their mowing, some to their milking, but
more, indeed, I truly suspect, to that exquisite Nirvana from which
the tempest's travail had aroused them.

I waved my hand, striving in vain to keep my eyes on one blest, beguiling
face of all that glanced behind them.

But, she gone, I turned into the rainy lane once more with my new
acquaintance, discreeter, but not less giddy, it seemed, than I.
We had not far to go-- past a meadow or two, a low green wall, a black
fish-pool-- and soon the tumbledown gables of a house came into view.

My
companion waved his open fingers at the crooked casements and peered
into my face.

"Ah!" he said, "we will talk, we will talk, you and I: I view it
in your eye, sir-- clear and full and profound-- such ever goes with
eloquence.'Tis my delight.

What are we else than beasts?-- beasts that perish? I never tire; I never weary;-- give me to
dance and to sing, but ever to talk: then am I at ease. Heaven is just. Enter, sir-- enter!" He led me by
a shady alley into his orchard, and thence to a stable, where we left Rosinante at hob-a-nob
with his mare over a friendly bottle of hay.

And we ourselves passed into the house, and ascended a staircase into an upper chamber. This
chamber was raftered, its walls hung with an obscure tapestry, its floor strewn with sand,
and its lozenged casement partly shuttered against the blaze of sunshine that flowed across
the forests far away to the west. My friend eyed me brightly and busily as a starling. "You danced fine,
sir," he said. "Oh! it is a pleasure to me.

Ay, and now I come to consider it, methought I did hear hoofs behind me that might yet be
echo. No, but I did not think:'twas but my ear cried to his dreaming master. Ever dreaming;
God help at last the awakening! But well met, well met, I say again. I am cheered. And you but just
in time! Nay, I would not have missed him for a ransom.

So-- so-- this leg, that leg; up now-- hands over down we go! Lackaday, I am old bones for such freaks.
Once!...'Memento mori!'say I, and smell the shower the sweeter for
it.

Be seated, sir, bench or stool, wheresoever you'd be. You're looking peaked. That burden rings
in my skull like a bagpipe. Toot-a-tootie, toot-a-toot! Och, sad days!" We devoured our meal of
cold meats and pickled fish, fruit and junket and a kind of harsh cheese, as if in contest for
a wager. And copious was the thin spicy wine with which we swam it
home.

Ever and again my host would desist, to whistle, or croon (with a packed mouth) in the dismallest
of tenors, a stave or two of the tune we had danced to, bobbing head and foot in sternest time.
Then a great vacancy would overspread his face turned to the window, as suddenly to gather to a cheerful
smile, and light, irradiated, once more on me. Then down would drop
his chin over his plate, and away go finger and spoon among his victuals
in a dance as brisk and whole-hearted as the other.

He took me out again into his garden after supper, and we walked beneath the trees. "'Tis bliss
to be a bachelor, sir," he said, gazing on the resinous trunk of an old damson tree. "I gorge,
I guzzle; I am merry, am melancholy; studious, harmonical, drowsy,-- and none to scold or deny me.
For the rest, why, youth is vain: yet youth had pleasure-- innocence
and delight.

I chew the cud of many a peaceful acre. Ay, I have nibbled roses
in my time.

But now, what now? I have lived so long far from courts and courtesy, grace and fashion, and am
so much my own close and indifferent friend-- Why! he is happy who has solitude for housemate, company
for guest. I say it, I say it; I marry daily wives of memory's fashioning, and dream at peace." It
seemed an old bone he picked with Destiny. "There's much to be said," I replied as profoundly as
I could. The air he now lulled youth asleep with was a very cheerless threnody, but he brightened
once more at praise of his delightful orchard. "You like it, sir? You speak kindly, sir. It
is my all; root and branch: how many a summer's moons have I seen
shine hereon!

       

I know it-- there is bliss to come;-- miraculous Paradise for men
even dull as I. Yet'twill be strange to me-- without my house and
orchard.

Age tends to earth, sir, till even an odour may awake the dead--
a branch in the air call with its fluttering a face beyond Time to
vanquish dear.'Soul, soul,'I cry,'forget thy dust, forget thy vaunting
ashes!'-- and speak in vain.

So's life!" And when we had gone in again, and candles had been lit in his fresh and narrow chamber,
seeing a viol upon a chest, I begged a little music.

He quite eagerly, with a boyish peal of laughter, complied; and sat down with a very solemn face,
his brows uplifted, and sang between the candles to a pathetic air this doggerel:-- There's
a dark tree and a sad tree, Where sweet Alice waits, unheeded, For her lover long-time absent,
Plucking rushes by the river. Let the bird sing, let the buck sport, Let the sun sink to his setting;
Not one star that stands in darkness Shines upon her absent lover. But his stone lies'neath the dark
tree, Cold to bosom, deaf to weeping; And'tis gathering moss she
touches, Where the locks lay of her lover.

"A dolesome thing," he said; "but my mother was wont to sing it to the virginals.'Cold to bosom,'"
he reiterated with a plangent cadence; "I remember them all, sir;
from the cradle I had a gift for music."

And then, with an ample flirt of his bow, he broke, all beams and smiles,
into this ingenuous ditty: The goodman said, "'Tis time for bed, Come,
mistress, get us quick to pray; Call in the maids From out the glades
Where they with lovers stray, With love, and love do stray."

"Nay, master mine,
The night is fine, And time's enough all dark to pray;'Tis April buds Bedeck
the woods Where simple maids away With love, and love do stray."

Now we are old, And nigh the mould,'Tis meet on feeble knees to pray; When once we'd roam,'Twas else cried,'Come,
And sigh the dusk away, With love, and love to stray.'"So they gat
in To pray till nine; Then called," Come maids, true maids, away!

Kiss and begone, Ha'done, ha'done, Until another day With love, and love to stray! "Oh, it
were best If so to rest Went man and maid in peace away!

The throes a heart May make to smart Unless love have his way, In April woods to stray!-- In April
woods to stray! And that finished with another burst of laughter, he set very adroitly to the
mimicry of beasts and birds upon his frets. Never have I seen a face so consummately the action's. His every
fibre answered to the call; his eyebrows twitched like an orator's;
his very nose was plastic."

Hst! "he cried softly;" hither struts chanticleer! "" Cock-a-diddle-doo! "crowed the wire." Now,
prithee, Dame Partlett! "and down bustled a hen from an egg like
cinnamon.

A cat with kittens mewed along the string, anxious and tender." A woodpecker,
"he cried, directing momentarily a sedulous, clear eye on me. And lo,"
inviolable quietness "and the smooth beech-boughs!"

And thus, "he said, sitting closer," the martlets were wont to whimper about the walls of the
castle of Inverness, the castle of Macbeth. "" Macbeth! "I repeated--"
Macbeth!

"" Ay, "he said," it was his seat while yet a simple soldier-- flocks and flocks of them, wheeling
hither, thither, in the evening air, crying and calling.

"I listened in a kind of confusion."... And Duncan, "I said.... He eyed me with immense pleasure,
and nodded with brilliant eyes on mine." What looking man was he?

"I said at last as carelessly as I dared."... The King, you mean,--
of Scotland.

"He magnanimously ignored my confusion, and paused to build his sentence."'Duncan'?
"he said." The question calls him straight to mind.

A lean-locked, womanish countenance; sickly, yet never sick; timid, yet most obdurate; more
sly than politic. An ignis fatuus, sir, in a world of soldiers.

"His eye wandered...."'Twas a marvellous sanative air, crisp and pure; but for him, one draught
and outer darkness. I myself viewed his royal entry from the gallery--
pacing urbane to slaughter; and I uttered a sigh to see him.'Why,
sir, do you sigh to see the king?'cried one softly that stood by.'I
sigh, my lord,'I answered to the instant,'at sight of a monarch even
Duncan's match!'"He looked his wildest astonishment at me."

Not, I'd have you remember-- not that'twas blood I did foresee....
To kill in blood a man, and he a king, so near to natural death...
foul, foul!

"" And Macbeth? "I said presently--" Macbeth...? "He laid down his viol with prolonged care." His
was a soul, sir, nobler than his fate. I followed him not without love from boyhood-- a youth
almost too fine of spirit; shrinking from all violence, over-nicely;
eloquent, yet chary of speech, and of a dark profundity of thought.

The questions he would patter!-- unanswerable, searching earth and
heaven through.... And who now was it told me the traitor Judas's
hair was red?-- yet not red his, but of a reddish chestnut, fine and
bushy.

Children have played their harmless hands at hide-and-seek therein. O sea of many winds! "For come gloom
on the hills, floods, discolouring mist; breathe but some grandam's
tale of darkness and blood and doubleness in his hearing: all changed.

Flame kindled; a fevered unrest drove him out; and Ambition, that
spotted hound of hell, strained at the leash towards the Pit."

So runs the world-- the ardent and the lofty. We are beyond earth's
story as'tis told, sir.

All's shallower than the heart of man.... Indeed,'twas one more shattered altar to Hymen. ""'Hymen!'"I
said.

He brooded long and silently, clipping his small beard.

And while he was so brooding, a mouse, a moth, dust-- I know not what, stirred the listening strings
of his viol to sound, and woke him with a start." I vowed, sir, then, to dismiss all memory of
such unhappy deeds from mind-- never to speak again that broken lady's name. Oh! I have seen sad
ends-- pride abased, splendour dismantled, courage to terror come, guilt to a crying guilelessness. ""'Guilelessness?'"I
said." Lady Macbeth at least was past all changing. "The doctor stood up and cast a deep scrutiny
on me, which yet, perhaps, was partly on himself."

Perceive, sir, "he said," this table-- broader, longer, splendidly
burdened; and all adown both sides the board, thanes and their ladies,
lords, and gentlemen, guests bidden to a royal banquet.'Twas then
in that bleak and dismal country-- the Palace of Forres.

Torches
flared in the hall; to every man a servant or two: we sat in pomp.

"He paused again, and gravely withdrew behind the tapestry." And presently, "he cried therefrom,
suiting his action to the word," to the blast of hautboys enters
the king in state thus, with his attendant lords.

And with all that rich and familiar courtesy of which he was master
in his easier moods he passed from one to another, greeting with supple
dignity on his way, till he came at last softly to the place prepared
for him at table.

And suddenly-- shall I ever forget, it, sir?-- it seemed silence
ran like a flame from mouth to mouth as there he stood, thus, marble-still,
his eyes fixed in a leaden glare.

And he raised his face and looked once round on us all with a forlorn astonishment and wrath, like
one with a death-wound-- I never saw the like of such a face. "Whereat, beseeching us to be calm, and
pay no heed, the queen laid her hand on his and called him. And his orbs rolled down once more
upon the empty place, and stuck as if at grapple with some horror seen within. He muttered aloud
in peevish altercation-- once more to heave up his frame, to sigh
and shake himself, and lo!--"

       The viol-strings rang to his "lo!" "Lo, sir, the Unseen had conquered.

His lip sagged into his beard, he babbled with open mouth, and leaned
on his lady with such an impotent and slavish regard as I hope never
to see again man pay to woman.... We thought no more of supper after
that...."

But what do I--? "The doctor laid a cautioning finger on his mouth." The company was dispersed, the
palace gloomy with night (and they were black nights at Forres!), and on the walls I heard the sentinel's
replying.... In the wood's last glow I entered and stood in his self-same
station before the empty stool.

And even as I stood thus, my hair creeping, my will concentred, gazing with every cord at stretch,
fell a light, light footfall behind me. "He glanced whitely over his
shoulder."

Sir, it was the queen come softly out of slumber on my own unquiet
errand.

"The doctor strode to the door,
and peered out like a man suspicious or guilty of treachery. It was
indeed a house of broken silences. And there, in the doorway, he
seemed to be addressing his own saddened conscience."

With all my skill, and
all a leal man's gentleness, I solaced and persuaded, and made an
oath, and conducted her back to her own chamber unperceived. How weak
is sleep!... It was a habit, sir, contracted in childhood, long dormant,
that Evil had woke again.

The Past awaits us
all.

So run Time's
sands, till mercy's globe is empty and... "He stooped and whispered it
across to me:"... A child, a comparative child, shrunk to an anatomy,
her beauty changed, ghostly of youth and all its sadness, baffled
by a word, slave to a doctor's nod!

None knew but I, and, at the last, one of her ladies--
a gentle, faithful, and fearful creature. Nor she till far beyond all
mischief.... "Wild deeds are done. But to have blood on the hands, a
cry in the ears, and one same glassy face eye to eye, that nothing
can dim, nor even slumber pacify-- dreams, dreams, intangible, enorm!

Mr. Fiddlestick, Q.C., who with Mr. Pearl appeared for the applicants (and who was somewhat
imperfectly heard), stated that the facts connected with the sinking of the Kangaroo would
probably still be so fresh in his Lordship's mind that it would not be necessary for him to
detail them, although he had them upon affidavit before him. His Lordship would remember that
but one boat-load of people had survived from this, perhaps the most terrible, shipwreck of
the generation. Among the drowned was Mr. Meeson; and this application was on behalf of the
executors of his will for leave to presume his death. The property which passed under the will
was very large indeed; amounting in all, Mr. Fiddlestick understood, to about two millions
sterling, which, perhaps, might incline his Lordship to proceed very carefully in allowing
probate to issue.

The President: Well--the amount of the property has got nothing to do with the principles on
which the Court acts with regard to the presumption of death, Mr. Fiddlestick.

Quite so, my Lord, and I think that in this case your Lordship will be satisfied that there
is no reason why probate should not issue. It is, humanly speaking, impossible that Mr. Meeson
can have escaped the general destruction.

The President: Have you any affidavit from anybody who saw Mr. Meeson in the water?

No, my Lord; I have an affidavit from a sailor named Okers, the only man who was picked up
in the water after the Kangaroo foundered, which states that he believes that he saw Mr. Meeson
spring from the ship into the water, but the affidavit does not carry the matter further. He
cannot swear that it was Mr. Meeson.

The President: Well, I think that that will do. The Court is necessarily adverse to allowing
the presumption of death, except on evidence of the most satisfactory nature. Still, considering
that nearly four months have now passed since the foundering of the Kangaroo under circumstances
which make it exceedingly improbable that there were any other survivors, I think that it may
fairly presume that Mr. Meeson shared the fate of the other passengers.

Mr. Fiddlestick: The death to be presumed from the 18th of December.

The President: Yes, from the eighteenth.

Mr. Fiddlestick: If your Lordship pleases.

       *       *       *       *       *

Augusta put down the paper with a gasp. There was she, safe and sound, with the true last will
of Mr. Meeson tattooed upon her; and "probate had issued"--whatever that mysterious formula
might mean--to another will, not the real last will. It meant (as she in her ignorance supposed)
that her will was no good, that she had endured that abominable tattooing to no purpose, and
was, to no purpose, scarred for life.

It was too much; and, in a fit of vexation, she flung the Times out of the window, and cast
herself back on the cushion, feeling very much inclined to cry.

CHAPTER XIII.

EUSTACE BUYS A PAPER.

In due course the train that bore Augusta and her fortunes, timed to reach Waterloo at 5.40
p.m., rolled into the station. The train was a fast one, but the telegraph had been faster.
All the evening papers had come out with accounts, more or less accurate, of their escape,
and most of them had added that the two survivors would reach Waterloo by the 5.40 train. The
consequence was, that when the train drew up at the platform, Augusta, on looking out, was
horrified to see a dense mass of human beings being kept in check by a line of policemen.

However, the guard was holding the door open, so there was nothing for it but to get out, which
she did, taking Dick by the hand, a proceeding that necessarily put her identity beyond a doubt.
The moment she got her foot on to the platform, the crowd saw her, and there arose such a tremendous
shout of welcome that she very nearly took refuge again in the carriage. For a moment she stood
hesitating, and the crowd, seeing how sweet and beautiful she was (for the three months of
sea air had made her stouter and even more lovely), cheered again with that peculiar enthusiasm
which a discerning public always shows for a pretty face. But even while she stood bewildered
on the platform she heard a loud "Make way--make way there!" and saw the multitude being divided
by a little knot of officials, who were escorting somebody dressed in widow's weeds.

In another second there was a cry of joy, and a sweet, pale faced little lady had run at the
child Dick, and was hugging him against her heart, and sobbing and laughing both at once.

"Oh! my boy! my boy!" cried Lady Holmhurst, for it was she, "I thought you were dead--long
ago dead!"

And then she turned, and, before all the people there, clung about Augusta's neck and kissed
her and blessed her, because she had saved her only child, and half removed the deadweight
of her desolation. Whereat the crowd cheered, and wept, and yelled, and swore with excitement,
and blessed their stars that they were there to see.

And then, in a haze of noise and excitement, they were led through the cheering mob to where
a carriage and pair were standing, and were helped into it, Mrs. Thomas being placed on the
front seat, and Lady Holmhurst and Augusta on the back, the former with the gasping Dick upon
her knee.

And now little Dick is out of the story.

Then another event occurred, which we must go back a little to explain.

When Eustace Meeson had come to town, after being formally disinherited, he had managed to
get a billet as Latin, French, and Old English reader in a publishing house of repute. As it
happened, on this very afternoon he was strolling down the Strand, having finished a rather
stiff day's work, and with a mind filled with those idle and somewhat confused odds and ends
of speculation with which most brain workers will be acquainted. He looked older and paler
than when we last met him, for sorrow and misfortune had laid their heavy hands upon him. When
Augusta had departed, he had discovered that he was head over heels in love with her in that
unfortunate way--for ninety-nine times out of a hundred, it is unfortunate--in which many men
of susceptibility do occasionally fall in love in their youth--a way that brands the heart
for life in a fashion that can no more be effaced than the stamp of a hot iron can be effaced
from the physical body. Such an affection--which is not altogether of the earth--will, when
it overcomes a man, prove either the greatest blessing of his life or one of the heaviest,
most enduring curses that a malignant fate can heap upon his head. Frank leaned against a lathe, watching
the others, the frosty thrill and soul-searching hidden inside himself. Maybe it was hard
to guess what Eileen Sands, standing near, was thinking, but she was the firm kind who would
have a definite direction. Perhaps unconsciously, she hummed a tune under her breath, while
her feet toyed with graceful steps. No doubt, her mind was also on the Big Vacuum beyond the
Earth.

But what is there about a dangerous dream? When it is far out of reach, it has a safe, romantic appeal.
Bring its fulfillment a little closer, and its harsh aspects begin to show. You get a kick out
of that, but you begin to wonder nervously if you have the guts, the stamina, the resistance
to loneliness and complete strangeness.

Looking at a real Archie-- with a friend inside it, even-- did this to Frank Nelsen. But he could
see similar reactions in some of the others.

Mitch Storey sat, bent forward, on a box, staring at his big, sepia hands, in which he tossed
back and forth a tiny, clear capsule containing a fuzzy fragment of vegetation from Mars. He
had bought this sealed curio from Paul a year ago for fifty dollars-- souvenirs
that came from so far were expensive.

And now, in view of what was happening to hopeful colonists of that once inhabited and still
most Earth-like other planet, ownership of such a capsule on Earth seemed about to be banned,
not only by departments of agriculture, but by bodies directly concerned
with public safety.

Did the color photographs of Mars, among all the others that the Bunch had thumbtacked to the
shop walls, still appeal as strongly to Mitch? Did he still want to go out to that world of queer,
swirled markings, like the fluid flow in the dregs of a paper coffee cup? Mitch would-- more so than
ever. He had plant life in his soul, maybe from wandering in the swamps near his home in Mississippi.
He had been supporting himself here at school by fixing gardens. If it was plant life of a
different, dangerous sort, with other billions of years of development behind it, that just
made the call stronger. Mitch just sat and thought, now, the mouth organ he seldom played sagging
forward in his frayed shirt pocket.

Ramos-- Miguel Ramos Alvarez-- only stood with his black-visored cap
pushed back on his head, and a cocky smirk of good humor on his mouth.

Reckless Ramos, who went tearing around the country in an ancient motor scooter, decorated with squirrel tails
and gaudy bosses, would hardly be disturbed by any risky thing he
wanted to do.

The thumbtacked pictures of the systems of far, cold Jupiter and Saturn-- Saturn still unapproached,
except by small, instrumented rockets-- would be the things to appeal
to him.

The Kuzak twins stood alertly, as if an extra special homecoming football game was in prospect.
But they weren't given to real doubts, either. From their previous remarks it was clear that
the asteroids, those fragments of an exploded and once populated world, orbiting out beyond
Mars, would be for them. Osmium, iridium, uranium. The rich, metallic guts of a planet exposed
for easy mining. Thousands of prospectors, hopeful characters, and men brutalized by the life in
space, were already drifting around in the Asteroid Belt.

Two-and-Two Baines wore a worried, perplexed expression.

He was a massive, rather lost young man who had to keep up with the times, and with his companions,
and was certainly wondering if he was able.

Little David Lester, the pedant, the mother's boy, who looked eighteen but was probably older,
pouted, and his heavy lips in his thin face moved. "Cores," Nelsen heard him whisper. He had
the habit of talking to himself. Frank knew his interests. Drill cores withdrawn from the
strata of another planet, and inspected for fossils and other evidences of its long history,
was what he probably meant. Seeing Gimp in the Archie had set off another scientific reverie
in his head. He was a whizz in any book subject. Maybe he had the brains to be a great investigator
of the past, in the Belt or on Mars, if his mind didn't crack first, which seemed sure to
happen if he left Earth at all.

But it was Glen Tiflin's reactions that were the strangest. He had his switch blade out, and was tossing
it expertly against a wall two-by-four, in which it stuck quivering
each time.

This seemed his one skill, his pride, his proof of manhood. And he wanted to get into space
like nobody else around, except maybe Gimp Hines. It wasn't hard to sense how his head worked-- the
whole Bunch knew.

Tiflin's face seemed to writhe, now, with self-doubt and truculence;
his eyes were on the photos of the heroes, beginning way back; Goddard.

Von Braun. Clifford, who had first landed on the far side of the Moon. LaCrosse, who had reached
Mercury, closest to the sun. Vasiliev, who had just come back from the frozen moons of Jupiter,
scoring a triumph for the Tovies-- somebody had started calling them
that, a few years ago-- up in high Eurasia, the other side of an ideological
rift that still threatened the ever more crowded and competitive Earth,
though mutual fear had so far kept the flare ups within limits.

Bannon, whose expedition was even now exploring the gloomy cellar of Venus'surface, smothered
in steam, carbon dioxide and poisonous formaldehyde.

To Tiflin, as to the others, even such places were glamorous. But he wanted to be a big shot, too.
It was like a compulsion. He was touchy and difficult.

Three years back, he had been in trouble for breaking and entering.

Maybe his worship of space, and his desire to get there and prove
himself, were the only things that had kept him straight for so long-- grimly
attentive at Tech, and at work at his car-washing job, nights.

In his nervousness, now, he stuck a cigarette savagely between his lips, and lighted it with a quick,
arrogant gesture, hardly slowing down the continuous toss and recovery
of his knife.

This had begun to annoy big Art Kuzak. For one thing, Tiflin was doing his trick too close to
the mass of crinkly, cellophane-like stuff draped over a horizontal wooden pole suspended by iron
straps from the ceiling. The crinkly mass was one of the Bunch's major projects-- their first
space bubble, or bubb which they had been cutting and shaping with more care and devotion
than skill.

"Cripes-- put that damn shiv away, Tif!" Art snapped. "Or lose it
someplace!"

Ramos, who was a part-time mechanic at the same garage where Tiflin worked, couldn't help taunting.
"Yeah-- smoking, too. Oh-oh. Using up precious oxygen. Better quit, pal. Can't do much of that Out
There."

This was a wrong moment to rib Tiflin. He was in an instant flare. But he ground out the cigarette
at once, bitterly. "What do you care what I do, Mex?" he snarled. "And as for you two Hunky
Kuzaks-- you oversized bulldozers-- how about weight limits for blastoff? Damn-- I don't care
how big you are!"

In mounting rage, he was about to lash out with his fists, even at the two watchful football
men. But then he looked surprised. With a terrible effort, he bottled
up even his furious words.

The
Bunch was a sort of family. Members of families may love each other, but it doesn't have to happen.
For a second it was as if Ramos had Tiflin spitted on some barb of
his taunting smile-- aimed at Tiflin's most vulnerable point.

Ramos clicked his tongue. What he was certainly going to remark was that people who couldn't pass
the emotional stability tests, just couldn't get a space-fitness card. But Ramos wasn't unkind.
He checked himself in time.

"No sweat, Tif," he muttered.

"Hey, Gimp-- are you going to sit in that Archie all night?" Joe Kuzak, the easy-going twin, boomed
genially. "How about the rest of us?"

"Yeah-- how about that, Gimp?" Dave Lester put in, trying to sound as brash and bold as the others,
instead of just bookish.

Two-and-Two Baines, still looking perplexed, spoke in a hoarse voice that sounded like sorrow.
"What I wanna know is just how far this fifty buck price gets us.

Guess we have enough dough left in the treasury to buy us each an
Archer Five, huh, Paul?"

Paul Hendricks rubbed his bald head and grinned in a way that attempted
to prove him a disinterested sideliner.

"Ask Frank," he said. "He's your historian-secretary and treasurer."

Frank Nelsen came out of his attitude of observation enough to warn, "That much we've got, if
we want as many as twelve Archies. And a little better than a thousand dollars more, left over
from the prize money."

They had won twenty-five hundred dollars during the summer for building
a working model of a sun-powered ionic drive motor-- the kind useful
for deep-space propulsion, but far too weak in thrust to be any good,
starting from the ground.

The contest had been sponsored by-- of all outfits-- a big food chain, Trans-Columbia. But this
wasn't so strange. Everybody was interested in, or affected by, interplanetary
travel, now.

On a workbench, standing amid a litter of metal chips and scraps of
color-coded wire, was the Bunch's second ionic, full-size this time,
and almost finished.

On crossed arms it mounted four parabolic mirrors; its ion guide was on a universal joint. Out There,
in orbit or beyond, and in full, spatial sunlight, its jetting ions would deliver ten pounds
of continuous thrust.

"A thousand bucks-- that's nowhere near enough," Two-and-Two mourned further. "Doggone, why
can't we get blasted up off the Earth-- that costs the most, all by itself-- just in our Archies?
They've got those little ionic drives on their shoulders, to get around with, after we're in orbit.
Lots of asteroid hoppers live and ride only in their space suits. Why do they make us get all that
other expensive equipment? Space bubbs, full-size ionics, lots of
fancy instruments!"

"'Cause it isn't legal, otherwise," Mitch Storey pointed out.

"'Cause new men are green-- it isn't safe for them, otherwise-- the Extra-Terrestrial Commission
thinks. Got to have all the gear to get clearance. Travelling light isn't even legal in the Belt.
You know that."

"Maybe we'll win us another prize," Ramos laughed, touching the crinkly substance of their first
bubb, hanging like a deflated balloon over the ceiling pole.

Tiflin sneered. "Oh, sure, you dumb Mex. Too many other Bunches, now. Too much competition.
Like companies starting up on the Moon not hiring ordinary help on Earth and shipping them out,
anymore-- saying contract guys don't stick.

Nuts-- it's because enough slobs save them the expense by showing up on their own... Or like
most all of us trying to get into the Space Force. The Real Elite-- sure. Only 25,000 in the
Force, when there are over 200,000,000 people in the country to draw
from.

Just one guy from Jarviston-- Harv Diamond-- ever made it. Choosy? We can get old waiting for
them to review our submitted personal data, only to have a chance
to take their lousy tests!"

Joe Kuzak grinned. "So down with'em-- down with the worthy old U. S. S. F.! We're on our own--
to Serenitatis Base on the Moon, to the Belt, Pallastown, and farther!"

Ramos still hovered near Eileen Sands. "What do you say, Sweetie?" he asked. "You haven't hardly
made a comment."

Eileen remained tough and withdrawn. "I'm just listening while you
smart male characters figure out everything," she snapped.

"Why don't you become a listener, too, for a change, and go help
Gimp out of that Archer?"

Ramos bowed elegantly, and obeyed the latter half of her suggestion.

"I have a premonition-- a hunch," little Lester offered, trying to sound firm. "Our request for
a grant from the Extra-Terrestrial Development Board will succeed.

Because we will be as valuable as anybody, Out There. Then we will have money enough to buy
the materials to make most of our equipment."

Joe Kuzak, the gentler twin, answered him. "You're right about one
thing, Les.

We'll wind up building most of our own stuff-- with our own mitts...!"

Some noisy conversation about who should try the Archer next, was
interrupted when the antique customer's bell over the street door
of the store, jangled.

There was a scrape of shoe soles, as the two previously absent members of the Bunch, Jig Hollins
and Charlie Reynolds, arriving together by chance, came into the
shop.

Jig (Hilton) Hollins was a mechanic out at the airport. He was lean, cocky, twenty-four, with a
stiff bristle of blond hair. Like Charlie Reynolds, he added up what
had just been happening, here, at a glance.

Both were older than the others. They had regular jobs.

Their educations were completed, except for evening supplementary
courses.

"Well, the men have arrived," Jig announced.

Maybe Charlie Reynolds'faint frown took exception to this remark. He was the only one in a suit,
grey and tasteful, with a subdued flash to match the kind of car he drove. Few held this against
him, nor the fact that he usually spent himself broke, nor the further fact that J. John Reynolds,
tight-fisted president of the Jarviston First National Bank, was his grandfather. Charlie
was an engineer at the new nuclear powerhouse, just out of town. Charlie was what is generally
known as a Good Guy. He was brash and sure-- maybe too sure.

He had a slight swagger, balanced by a certain benignancy. He was automatically the leader of
the Bunch, held most likely to succeed in their aims.

"Hi, gang," he breezed. "Otto is bringing beer, Pepsi and sandwiches
from his joint across the street.

Special day-- so it's on me. Time to relax-- maybe unsnarl. Any new
problems?"

"Still plenty of old ones," Frank Nelsen commented laconically.

"Has anybody suddenly decided to back out?" Charlie chuckled.

"It's tiresome for me always to be asking that." He looked around, meeting carefully easy grins
and grim expressions. "Nope-- I guess we're all shaggy folk, bent on high and wild living, so far.
So you know the only answer we can have."

"Umhmm, Charlie," Art Kuzak, the tough, business-like twin, gruffed.

"We can get the Archers, now. I think Frank has our various sizes noted down. Let everybody sign
up that wants an Archie. Better hurry, though-- there'll be a run on them now that they're being almost
given away... List all the other stuff we need-- with approximate
purchase price, or cost of construction materials, attached.

Sure-- we'll be way short of funds. But we can start with the items we can make, ourselves, now. The
point is not to lose time.

New restrictions may turn up, and give us trouble, if we do. We'll have to ride our luck for
a break."

"Hell-- you know the lists are ready, Art," Frank Nelsen pointed out. "A bubb for everybody--
or the stuff to make it.

Full-scale ionic drives, air-restorers and moisture-reclaimers, likewise.

Some of the navigation instruments we'll almost have to buy. Dehydrated food, flasks of oxygen and
water, and blastoff drums to contain our gear, are all relatively simple. Worst, of course, is
the blastoff price, from one of the spaceports. Who could be rich enough to have a ground-to-orbit
nuclear rocket of his own?

Fifteen hundred bucks-- a subsidized rate at that-- just to lift a man and a thousand pounds
of equipment into orbit. Five thousand dollars, minimum per person, is what we're going to need,
altogether."

Gimp Hines, who always acted as if he expected to get off the Earth, too, had yielded his position
inside the Archer to Tiflin, and had hobbled close.

"The cost scares a guy who has to go to school, too, so he can pass the tests," he said. "Well,
don't worry, Frank.

A thousand dollars buys a lot of stellene for bubbs. And we can scratch
up a few bucks of our own.

I can find a hundred, myself, saved from my TV repair work, and my novelties business. Charlie,
here, ought to be able to contribute a thousand. Same for you, Hollins.

That'll buy parts and materials for some ionic motors, too."

"Oh, certainly, Gimp," Hollins growled.

But Charlie Reynolds grinned. "I can kick in that much, if I hold
down a while," he said.

"Maybe more, later.

What we've got to have, however, is a loan.

We can't expect a grant from the Board. Sure they want more people helping to develop resources
in space, but they're swamped with requests. Let's not sweat, though. With a little time, I'll
swing something... Hey, everybody! Proposition! I move that whoever wants an Archer put his
name down for Frank.

I further move that we have him order us a supply of stellene, and basic materials for at least
three more ionic motors.

I also suggest that everybody donate as much cash as he can, no matter
how little, and as much time as possible for making equipment.

With luck, and if we get our applications for space-fitness tests mailed to Minneapolis within
a week, at least some of us should get off Earth by next June. Now, shall we sign for the whole
deal?"

Art Kuzak hunched his shoulders and displayed white teeth happily. "I'm a pushover," he said.
"Here I come. I like to see things roll."

"Likewise," said his brother, Joe.

Their signatures were both small, in contrast to their size.

Ramos, fully clad in the Archer, clowned his way forward to write
his name with great flourishes, his ball point clutched in a space
glove.

Tiflin made a fierce, nervous scrawl.

Mitch Storey wrote patiently, in big, square letters.

Gimp chewed his lip, and signed, "Walter Hines," in a beautiful, austere script, with a touch
as fine as a master scientist's. "I'll go along as far as they let
me," he muttered.

"I think it will be the same-- in my case," David Lester stammered. He shook so much that his
signature was only a quavering line.

"For laughs," Eileen Sands said, and wrote daintily.

Two-and-Two Baines gulped, sighed, and made a jagged scribble, like the trail of a rocket gone
nuts.

Jig Hollins wrote in swooping, arrogant circles, that came, perhaps,
from his extra jobs as an advertising sky writer with an airplane.

Frank Nelsen was next, and Charlie Reynolds was last.

Theirs were the most indistinctive signatures in the lot. Just ordinary
writing.

"So here we all are, on a piece of paper-- pledged to victory or death,"
Reynolds laughed.

"Anyhow, we're out of a rut."

Nelsen figured that that was the thing about Charlie Reynolds. Some might not like him, entirely.
But he could get the Bunch unsnarled and in motion.

Old Paul Hendricks had come back from waiting on some casual customers
in the store.

"Want to sign, too, Paul?" Reynolds chuckled.

"Nope-- that would make thirteen," Paul answered, his eyes twinkling. "I'll watch and listen-- and
maybe tell you if I think you're off beam."

"Here comes Otto with the beer and sandwiches," Ramos burst out.

They
all crowded around heavy Otto Kramer and his basket-- all except Frank
Nelsen and Paul Hendricks, and Eileen Sands who made the ancient typewriter
click in the little office-enclosure, as she typed up the order list
that Nelsen would mail out with a bank draft in the morning.

Nelsen
had a powerful urge to talk to the old man who was his long-time friend,
and who had said little all during the session, though he knew more
about space travel than any of them-- as much as anybody can know without
ever having been off the Earth.

"Hey, Paul," Frank called in a low
tone, leaning his elbows across a workbench.

"Yeah?"

"Nothing,"
Frank Nelsen answered with a lopsided smile.

But he felt that that
was the right word, when your thoughts and feelings became too huge
and complicated for you to express with any ease.

Grandeur, poetry,
music-- for instance, the haunting popular song, Fire Streak, about
the burial of a spaceman-- at orbital speed-- in the atmosphere of his
native planet. And fragments of history, such as covered wagons. All
sorts of subjects, ideas and pictures were swirling inside his head.
Wanting to sample everything in the solar system... Home versus the
distance, and the fierce urge to build a wild history of his own...
Gentleness and lust to be fulfilled, sometime. There would be a girl...
And there were second thoughts to twist your guts and make you wonder
if all your savage drives were foolish. But there was a duty to be
equal to your era-- helping to give dangerously crowded humanity on
Earth more room, dispersal, a chance for race survival, if some unimaginable
violence were turned loose... He thought of the names of places Out
There.

Serenitatis Base-- Serene-- on the Moon.
Lusty, fantastic Pallastown, on the Golden Asteroid, Pallas... He remembered
his parents, killed in a car wreck just outside of Jarviston, four
Christmases ago. Some present!... But there was one small benefit--
he was left free to go where he wanted, without any family complications,
like other guys might have. Poor Dave Lester. How was it that his
mother allowed him to be with the Bunch at all? How did he work it?
Or was she the one that was right?... Paul Hendricks had leaned his
elbows on the workbench, too.

"Sure-- nothing-- Frank," he said, and his watery eyes
were bland. The old codger understood.

Neither
of them said anything for a minute, while the rest of the Bunch, except
Eileen who was still typing, guzzled Pepsi and beer, and wolfed hotdogs.
There was lots of courage-lifting noise and laughter. Ramos said something,
and Jig Hollins answered him back.

"Think there'll be any girls in grass skirts out
in the Asteroid Belt, Mex?" "Oh, they'll arrive," Ramos assured him.
Nelsen didn't listen anymore.

His and Paul's attention had wandered to the largest color photo
thumbtacked to the wall, above the TV set, and the shelf of dog-eared
technical books.

It showed
a fragile, pearly ring, almost diaphanous, hanging tilted against spatial
blackness and pinpoint stars. Its hub was a cylindrical spindle, with
radial guys of fine, stainless steel wire. It was like the earliest
ideas about a space station, yet it was also different. To many--
Frank Nelsen and Paul Hendricks certainly included-- such devices
had as much beauty as a yacht under full sail had ever had for anybody.
Old Paul smirked with pleasure. "It's a shame, ain't it, Frank-- calling
a pretty thing like that a'bubb'-- it's an ugly word. Or even a'space
bubble.'Technical talk gets kind of cheap."

"I don't mind,"
Frank Nelsen answered. "Our first one, here, could look just as nice--
inflated, and riding free against the stars." He touched the crinkly material,
draped across its wooden support.

"It will," the old man promised. "Funny--
not so long ago people thought that space ships would have to be really
rigid-- all metal.

So how did they turn out? Made of stellene,
mostly-- an improved form of polyethylene-- almost the same stuff
as a weather balloon."

"A few millimeters thick, light, perfectly flexible
when deflated," Nelsen added. "Cut out and cement your bubb together
in any shape you choose. Fold it up firmly, like a parachute-- it makes
a small package that can be carried up into orbit in a blastoff rocket
with the best efficiency.

There, attached flasks of breathable atmosphere fill it
out in a minute. Eight pounds pressure makes it fairly solid in a
vacuum. So, behold-- you've got breathing and living room, inside.
There's nylon cording for increased strength-- as in an automobile tire--
though not nearly as much. There's a silicone gum between the thin double
layers, to seal possible meteor punctures. A darkening lead-salt impregnation
in the otherwise transparent stellene cuts radiation entry below the danger
level, and filters the glare and the hard ultra-violet out of the
sunshine. So there you are, all set up." "Rig your hub and guy wires,"
old Paul carried on, cheerfully. "Attach your sun-powered ionic drive,
set up your air-restorer, spin your vehicle for centrifuge-gravity,
and you're ready to move-- out of orbit." They laughed, because getting
into space wasn't as easy as they made it sound. The bubbs, one of the
basic inventions that made interplanetary travel possible, were,
for all their almost vagabondish simplicity, still a concession in
lightness and compactness for atmospheric transit, to that first and
greatest problem-- breaking the terrific initial grip of Earth's gravity
from the ground upward, and gaining stable orbital speed.

Only a tremendously costly rocket, with a thrust greater than
its own weight when fully loaded, could do that. Buying a blastoff passage
had to be expensive. "Figuring, scrounging, counting our pennies,
risking our necks," Nelsen chuckled.

"And maybe, even if we make it, we'll be just a third-rate
group, lost in the crowd that's following the explorers... Just the
same, I wish you could plan to go, too, Paul." "Don't rub it in, kid. But I
figure on kicking in a couple of thousand bucks, soon, to help you characters
along." Nelsen felt an embarrassed lift of hope. "You shouldn't, Paul,"
he advised. "We've overrun and taken possession of your shop-- almost
your store, too. You've waived any profit, whenever we've bought anything.
That's enough favors." "My dough, my pleasure... Let's each get one
of Reynolds'beers and hotdogs, if any are left..."

Later, when all the others had
gone, except Gimp Hines, they uncovered the Archer, which everyone
else had tried.

Just then, too, Lady Holmhurst came in again and looked at the pair of them with an amusing
twinkle in her eye. Lady Holmhurst, like her butler, was also a person of experience.

"Won't you come into the drawing room?" she said. And they did, looking rather sheepish.

And there Eustace made a clean breast of it, announcing that they were engaged to be married.
And although this was somewhat of an assumption, seeing that no actual words of troth had passed
between them, Augusta stood there, never offering a word in contradiction.

"Well, Mr. Meeson," said Lady Holmhurst, "I think that you are the luckiest man of my acquaintance,
for Augusta is not only one of the sweetest and loveliest girls that I have ever met, she is
also the bravest and the cleverest. You will have to look out, Mr. Meeson, or you will be known
as the husband of the great Augusta Meeson."

"I will take the risk," he answered humbly. "I know that Augusta has more brains in her little
finger than I have in my whole body. I don't know how she can look at a fellow like me."

"Dear me, how humble we are!" said Lady Holmhurst. "Well, that is the way of men before marriage.
And now, as Augusta carries both your fortunes on her back as well as in her face and brain,
I venture to suggest that you had better go and see a lawyer about the matter; that is, if
you have quite finished your little talk. I suppose that you will come and dine with us, Mr.
Meeson, and if you like to come a little early, say half-past six, I daresay that Augusta will
arrange to be in, to hear what you have found out about this will, you know. And now--an revoir."

"I think that that is a very nice young man, my dear," said Lady Holmhurst as soon as Eustace
had bowed himself out. "It was rather audacious of him to propose to you the fourth time that
he set eyes upon you; but I think that audacity is, on the whole, a good quality in the male
sex. Another thing is, that if that will is worth anything he will be one of the wealthiest
men in the whole of England; so, taking it altogether, I think I may congratulate you, my dear.
And now I suppose that you have been in love with this young man all along. I guessed as much
when I saw your face as he ran up to the carriage yesterday, and I was sure of it when I heard
about the tattooing. No girl would allow herself to be tattooed in the interest of abstract
justice. Oh, yes! I know all about it; and now I am going out walking in the park with Dick,
and I should advise you to compose yourself, for that artist is coming to draw you at twelve."

And she departed and left Augusta to her reflections, which were--well, not unpleasant ones.

Meanwhile Eustace was marching towards the Temple. As it happened, in the same lodging-house
where he had been living for the last few months, two brothers of the name of Short had rooms,
and with these young gentlemen he had become very friendly. The two Shorts were twins, and
so like one another that it was more than a month before Eustace could be sure which of them
he was speaking to. When they were both at college their father died, leaving his property
equally between them; and as this property on realisation was not found to amount to more than
four hundred a year, the twins very rightly concluded that they had better do something to
supplement their moderate income. Accordingly, by a stroke of genius they determined that one
of them should become a solicitor and the other a barrister, and then tossed up as to which
should take to which trade. The idea, of course, was that in this manner they would be able
to afford each other mutual comfort and support. John would give James briefs, and James' reflected
glory would shine back on John. In short, they were anxious to establish a legal dong firm
of the most approved pattern.

Accordingly, they passed their respective examinations, and John took rooms with another budding
solicitor in the City, while James hired chambers in Pump-court. But there the matter stopped,
for as John did not get any work, of course he could not give any to James. And so it came
to pass that for the past three years neither of the twins had found the law as profitable
as they anticipated. In vain did John sit and sigh in the City. Clients were few and far between:
scarcely enough to pay his rent. And in vain did James, artistically robed, wander like the
Evil One, from court to court, seeking what he might devour. Occasionally he had the pleasure
of taking a note for another barrister who was called away, which means doing another man's
work for nothing. Once, too, a man with whom he had a nodding acquaintance, rushed up to him,
and, thrusting a brief into his hands, asked him to hold it for him, telling him that it would
be on in a short time, and that there was nothing in it--"nothing at all." All the town was talking
about his burial. His compatriots, the Hindu shopkeepers, had sent a delegation to the governor
and made arrangements for the funeral rites. They were going to cremate the body on the outskirts
of the town, on the beach that faced the East. Clearly James' friend would
not so consent, and had passed on the responsibility, minus the fee. On another occasion, James
was in the Probate Court on motion day, and a solicitor--a real live solicitor--came up to
him and asked him to make a motion (marked Mr.----, 2 gns.) for leave to dispense with a co-respondent.
This motion he made, and the co-respondent was dispensed with in the approved fashion; but
when he turned round the solicitor had vanished, and he never saw him more or the two guineas
either. However, the brief, his only one, remained, and, after that, he took to hovering about
the Divorce Court, partly in the hope of once more seeing that solicitor, and partly with a
vague idea of drifting into practice in the Division.

Now, Eustace had often, when in the Shorts' sitting-room in the lodging-house in the Strand
heard the barrister James hold forth learnedly on the matter of wills, and, therefore, he naturally
enough turned towards him in his recent dilemma. Knowing the address of his chambers in Pump-court,
he hurried thither, and was in due course admitted by a very small child, who apparently filled
the responsible office of clerk to Mr. James Short and several other learned gentlemen, whose
names appeared upon the door.

The infant regarded Eustace, when he opened the door, with a look of such preternatural sharpness,
that it almost frightened him. The beginning of that eagle glance was full of inquiring hope,
and the end of resigned despair. The child had thought that Eustace might be a client come
to tread the paths which no client ever had trod. Hence the hope and the despair in his eyes.
Eustace had nothing of the solicitor's clerk about him. Clearly he was not a client.

Mr. Short was in "that door to the right." Eustace knocked, and entered into a bare little
chamber about the size of a large housemaid's closet, furnished with a table, three chairs
(one a basket easy), and a book-case, with a couple of dozen of law books, and some old volumes
of reports, and a broad window-sill, in the exact centre of which lay the solitary and venerated
brief.

Mr. James Short was a short, stout young man, with black eyes, a hooked nose, and a prematurely
bald head. Indeed, this baldness of the head was the only distinguishing mark between James
and John, and, therefore, a thing to be thankful for, though, of course, useless to the perplexed
acquaintance who met them in the street when their hats were on. At the moment of Eustace's
entry Mr. Short had been engaged in studying that intensely legal print, the Sporting Times,
which, however, from some unexplained bashfulness, he had hastily thrown under the table, filling
its space with a law book snatched at hazard from the shelf.

"All right, old fellow," said Eustace, whose quick eyes had caught the quick flutter of the
vanishing paper; "don't be alarmed, it's only me."

"Ah!" said Mr. James Short, when he had shaken hands with him, "you see I thought that it might
have been a client--a client is always possible, however improbable, and one has to be ready
to meet the possibility."

"Quite so, old fellow," said Eustace; "but do you know, as it happens, I am a client--and a
big one, too; it is a matter of two millions of money--my uncle's fortune. There was another
will, and I want to take your advice."

Mr. Short fairly bounded out of the chair in exultation, and then, struck by another thought,
sank back into it again.

"My dear Meeson," he said, "I am sorry I cannot hear you."

"Eh," said Eustace; "what do you mean?"

"I mean that you are not accompanied by a solicitor, and it is not the etiquette of the profession
to which I belong to see a client unaccompanied by a solicitor."

"Oh, hang the etiquette of the profession!"

"My dear Meeson, if you came to me as a friend I should be happy to give you any legal information
in my power, and I flatter myself that I know something of matters connected with probate.
But you yourself said that you have come as a client, and in that case the personal relationship
sinks into the background and is superseded by the official relationship. Under these circumstances
it is evident that the etiquette of the profession intervenes, which overmastering force compels
me to point out to you how improper and contrary to precedent it would be for me to listen
to you without the presence of a properly qualified solicitor."

"Oh, Lord!" gasped Eustace, "I had no idea that you were so particular; I thought perhaps that
you would be glad of the job."

"Certainly--certainly! In the present state of my practice," as he glanced at the solitary
brief, "I should be the last to wish to turn away work. Let me suggest that you should go and
consult my brother John, in the Poultry. I believe business is rather slack with him just now,
so I think it probable that you will find him disengaged. Indeed, I dare say that I may go
so far as to make an appointment for him here--let us say in an hour's time. Stop! I will consult
my clerk! Dick!"

The infant appeared.

"I believe that I have no appointment for this morning?"

"No, Sir," said Dick, with a twinkle in his eye. "One moment, Sir, I will consult the book,"
and he vanished, to return presently with the information that Mr. Short's time was not under
any contributions that day.

"Very good," said Mr. Short; "then make an entry of an appointment with Mr. John Short and
Mr. Meeson, at two precisely."

"Yes, Sir," said Dick, departing to the unaccustomed task.

As soon as Eustace had departed from Tweedledum to Tweedledee, or, in other words, from James,
barrister, to John, solicitor, Dick was again summoned and bade go to a certain Mr. Thomson
on the next floor. The poor woman's friends dragged her out of the room, forcing her to remain
motionless, like her son, in a corner of the kitchen. Caldera, with a supreme effort of his dying
will, tied the agonizing youth to the bed. His beetling brows trembled and the tears made
him blink as he tied the coarse knots of the rope, fastening the youth to the bed upon which
he had been born. He felt as if he were preparing his son for burial and had begun to dig his
grave.

The victim twisted in wild contortions under the father's strong arms; the parent had to make
a powerful effort to subdue him under the rope that sank into his flesh.... To have lived so many
years only to behold himself at last obliged to perform such a task! To give life to a creature,
only to pray that it might be extinguished as soon as possible, horrified by so much useless
pain!... Good God in heaven! Why not put an end to the poor boy at once, since his death was
now inevitable?... He closed the door of the sick room, fleeing from
the rasping shriek that set everybody's hair on end; but the madman's
panting continued to sound in the silence of the cabin, accompanied
by the lamentations of the mother and the weeping of the other women
grouped around the lamp, that had just been lighted.

Caldera stamped upon the floor. Let the women be silent! But for the first time he beheld himself
disobeyed, and he left the cabin, fleeing from this chorus of grief.
Night descended. His gaze wandered toward the thin yellow band that
was visible on the horizon, marking the flight of day. Above his
head shone the stars.

From the other homes, which were scarcely visible, resounded the neighing of horses, barking and
the clucking of fowl,-- the last signs of animal life before it sank
to rest.

That primitive man felt an impression of emptiness amid the Nature
which was insensible and blind to the sufferings of its creatures.

Of what concern to the points of light that looked down upon him
from above could be that which he was now going through?... All creatures
were equal; the beasts that disturbed the silence of dusk before falling
asleep, and that poor youth similar to him, who now lay fettered,
writhing in the worst of agony.

How many illusions his life had contained!... And with a mere bite, a wretched animal kicked
about by all men could finish them all. And no remedy existed in heaven
or upon earth!... Once again the distant shriek of the sufferer came
to his ears from the open window of the estudi.

The tenderness of his early days of paternity emerged from the depths of his soul. He recalled the
nights he had spent awake in that room, walking up and down, holding in his arms the little
child that was crying from the pains of infancy's illness. Now he lay
crying, too, but without hope, in the agonies of a hell that had come
before its time, and at last... death. His countenance grew frightened,
and he raised his hands to his forehead as if trying to drive away
a troublesome thought.

Then he appeared to deliberate.... Why not?... "To end his suffering... to end his suffering!"
He went back to the cabin, only to come out at once with his old
double-barrelled musket, and he hastened to the little window of the
sick room as if he feared to lose his determination; he thrust the
gun through the opening.

Again he heard the agonizing panting, the chattering of teeth, the horrible shriek, now very near,
as if he were at the victim's bedside. His eyes, accustomed to the darkness saw the bed at the
back of the gloomy room, and the form that lay writhing in it,--
the pale spot of the face, appearing and disappearing as the sick man
twisted about desperately.

The father was frightened at the trembling of his hands and the agitation of his pulse; he,
the son of the huerta, without any other diversion than the hunt, accustomed to shoot down
birds almost without aiming at them.

The
wailing of the poor mother brought back to his memory other groans
of long long ago,-- twenty-two years before-- when she was giving
birth to her only son upon that same bed.

To come to such an end!... His eyes, gazing heavenward, saw a black sky, intensely
black, with not a star in sight, and obscured by his tears.... "Lord!
To end his sufferings! To end his sufferings!" And repeating these
words he pressed the musket against his shoulder, seeking the lock
with a tremulous finger.... Bang!

Bang! END THE WINDFALL "I SIR," said Magdalena, the bugler of the prison, "am no saint; I've been
jailed many times for robberies; some of them that really took place and others that I was simply
suspected of. Compared to you, who are a gentleman, and are in prison for having written things in the
papers, I'm a mere wretch.... But take my word for it, this time
I'm here for good."

And raising one hand to his breast as he straightened his head with a certain pride, he added, "Petty
thefts, that's all I'm not brave; I haven't shed a drop of blood." At break of day, Magdalena's
bugle resounded through the spacious yard, embroidering its reveille
with scales and trills.

During the day, with the martial instrument hanging from his neck, or
caressing it with a corner of his smock so as to wipe off the vapor with
which the dampness of the prison covered it, he would go through
the entire edifice,-- an ancient convent in whose refectories, granaries
and garrets there were crowded, in perspiring confusion, almost a
thousand men.

He was the clock that governed the life and the activities of this
mass of male flesh perpetually seething with hatred. He made the round
of the cells to announce, with sonorous blasts, the arrival of the
worthy director, or a visit from the authorities; from the progress
of the sun along the white walls of the prison-yard he could tell
the approach of the visiting hours,-- the best part of the day,--
and with his tongue stuck between his lips he would await orders impatiently,
ready to burst into the joyous signal that sent the flock of prisoners
scampering over the stairways in an anxious run toward the locutories,
where a wretched crowd of women and children buzzed in conversation;
his insatiable hunger kept him pacing back and forth in the vicinity
of the old kitchen, in which the enormous stews filled the atmosphere
with a nauseating odor, and he bemoaned the indifference of the chef,
who was always late in giving the order for the mess-call.

Those imprisoned for crimes of blood, heroes of the dagger who had
killed their man in a fierce brawl or in a dispute over a woman and
who formed an aristocracy that disdained the petty thieves, looked
upon the bugler as the butt for pranks with which to while away their
boredom.

"Blow!" would come the command from some formidable fellow, proud
of his crimes and his courage.

And Magdalena would draw himself up with military rigidity, close his mouth and inflate his
cheeks, momentarily expecting two blows, delivered simultaneously
by both hands, to expel the air from the ruddy globe of his face.

At other times these redoubtable personages tested the strength of
their arms upon Magdalena's pate, which was bare with the baldness
of repugnant diseases, and they would howl with laughter at the damage
done to their fists by the protuberances of the hard skull.

The bugler lent himself to these tortures with the humility of a
whipped dog, and found a certain revenge in repeating, afterwards,
those words that were a solace to him: "I'm good; I'm not a brave
fellow.

Petty thefts, that's all.... But as to blood, not a single drop."

Visiting time brought his wife, the notorious Peluchona, a valiant creature who inspired him
with great fear. She was the mistress of one of the most dangerous
bandits in the jail.

Daily she brought that fellow food, procuring these dainties at the cost of all manner of vile labors.
The bugler, upon beholding her, would leave the lucutory, fearing
the arrogance of her bandit mate, who would take advantage of the
occasion to humiliate him before his former companion.

Many times a certain feeling of curiosity and tenderness got the better of his fear, and he would advance
timidly, looking beyond the thick bars for the head of a child that
came with la Peluchona.

"That's my son, sir," he said, humbly. "My Tonico, who no longer
knows me or remembers me. They say that he doesn't resemble me at
all.

Perhaps he's not mine.... You can imagine, with the life his mother has always led, living near
the garrisons, washing the soldiers'clothes!... But he was born in my home; I held him in
my arms when he was ill, and that's a bond as close as ties of blood." Then he would resume his
timid lurking about the locutory, as if preparing one of his robberies,
to see his Tonico; and when he could see him for a moment, the sight
was enough to extinguish his helpless rage before the full basket
of lunch that the evil woman brought to her lover.

Magdalena's whole existence was summed up in two facts; he had robbed and he had travelled much.
The robberies were insignificant; clothes or money snatched in the street, because he lacked courage
for greater deeds. His travels had been compulsory,-- always on foot, over the roads of Spain,
marching in a chain gang of convicts, between the polished or white three-cornered hats that guarded
the prisoners. After having been a "pupil" among the buglers of a regiment, he had launched upon
this life of continuous imprisonment, punctuated by brief periods of freedom,
in which he lost his bearings, not knowing what to do with himself and
wishing to return as soon as possible to jail. It was the perpetual
chain, but finished link by link, as he used to say. The police never
organized a round-up of dangerous persons but what Magdalena was found
among them,-- a timorous rat whose name the papers mentioned like that
of a terrible criminal.

He was always included in the trail of vagrant suspects who, without being charged with any specific
crime, were sent from province to province by the authorities, in the hope that they would die
of hunger along the roads, and thus he had covered the whole peninsula
on foot, from Cadiz to Santander, from Valencia to La Coruña.

With what enthusiasm he recalled his travels!

He
spoke of them as if they were joyous excursions, just like a wandering charity-student of the old
Tuna converting his tales into courses in picturesque geography.
With hungry delight he recollected the abundant milk of Galicia,
the red sausages of Extramadura, the Castilian bread, the Basque apples,
the wines and ciders of all the districts he had traversed, with his
luggage on his shoulder.

Guards were changed every day,-- some of them kind or indifferent, others ill-humored and cruel,
who made all the prisoners fear a couple of shots fired beyond the ruts of the road, followed by
the papers justifying the killing as having been caused by an attempt at flight. With a certain nostalgia
he evoked the memory of mountains covered with snow or reddened and striped by the sun; the slow
procession along the white road that was lost in the horizon, like
an endless ribbon; the highlands, under the trees, in the hot noon
hours; the storms that assailed them upon the highways; inundated
ravines that forced them to camp out in the open; the arrival, late
at night, at certain town prisons, old convenes or abandoned churches,
in which every man hunted up a dry corner, protected from draughts,
where he could stretch his mat; the endless journey with all the calm
of a purposeless procession; the long halts in spots where life was
so monotonous that the presence of a group of prisoners was an event;
the urchins would come running up to the bars to speak with them,
while the girls, impelled by morbid curiosity, would approach within
a short distance, to hear their songs and their obscene language.

"Some mighty interesting travels, sir," continued the robber.

"For those
of us who had good health and didn't drop by the roadside it was the same as a strolling band
of students. Now and then a drubbing, but who pays any attention to
such things!... They don't have these conductions now; prisoners
are transported by railroad, caged up in the cars.

Besides, I am held for a criminal offense, and I must live inside the walls... jailed for
good." And again he began to lament his bad luck, relating the final deed that had landed him in
jail. It was a suffocating Sunday in July; an afternoon in which the streets of Valencia seemed
to be deserted, under the burning sun and a wind like a furnace blast that came from the baked
plains of the interior. Everybody was at the bull-fight or at the seashore. Magdalena was approached
by his friend Chamorra, an old prison and traveling companion, who
exercised a certain influence over him.

That Chamorra was a bad soul! A thief, but of the sort that go the limit, not recoiling before
the necessity of shedding blood and with his knife always handy beside
his skeleton-keys.

It was a matter of cleaning out a certain house, upon which this fearful fellow had set his eye.
Magdalena modestly excused himself. He wasn't made for such things; he couldn't go so far. As
for gliding up to a roof and pulling down the clothes that had been
hung out to dry, or snatching a woman's purse with a quick pull and
making off with it... all right.

But to break into a house, and face the mystery of a dwelling, in which the
people might be at home?... But Chamorra's threatening look inspired
him with greater fear than did the anticipation of such an encounter,
and he finally consented. Very well; he would go as an assistant,--
to carry the spoils, but ready to flee at the slightest alarm.

And he refused to accept an old jack-knife that his companion offered
him. He was consistent.

"Petty thefts aplenty; but as to blood, not a single drop." Late in
the afternoon they entered the narrow vestibule of a house that had
no janitor, and whose inhabitants were all away.

Chamorra knew his victim; a comfortably fixed artisan who must have a neat little pile saved up.
He was surely at the beach with his wife or at the bull-fight.

Above,
the door of the apartment yielded easily, and the two companions began
to work in the gloom of the shuttered windows. Chamorra forced the locks
of two chiffoniers and a closet. There was silver coin, copper coin,
several bank-notes rolled up at the bottom of a fan-case, the wedding-jewelry,
a clock.

Not a bad haul. His anxious looks wandered over the place, seeking
to make off with everything that could be carried.

He lamented the uselessness of Magdalena, who, restless with fear and
with his arms hanging limp at his sides, was pacing to and fro without
knowing what to do.

"Take the quilts," ordered Chamorra, "We're sure to get something for
the wool." And Magdalena, eager to finish the job as soon as possible,
penetrated into the dark alcove, gropingly passing a rope underneath the
quilts and the bed-sheets. Then, aided by his friend, he hurriedly made
a bundle of everything, casting the voluminous burden upon his shoulders.

They left without being detected, and walked off in the direction of the outskirts of the town, towards
a shanty of Arrancapinos, where Chamorra had his haunt. The latter
walked ahead, ready to run at the first sign of danger; Magdalena
followed, trotting along, almost hidden beneath the tremendous load,
fearing to feel at any moment the hand of the police upon his neck.

Upon examining the proceeds of the robbery in the remote corral, Chamorra exhibited the arrogance
of a lion, granting his accomplice a few copper coins. This must be
enough for the moment. He did this for Magdalena's own good, as Magdalena
was such a spendthrift.

Later he would give more. Then they untied the bundle of quilts, and Chamorra bent over, his hands
on his hips, exploding with laughter. What a find!... What a present!
Magdalena likewise burst into guffaws, for the first time that afternoon.
Upon the bed-clothes lay an infant, dressed only in a little shirt,
its eyes shut and its face purple from suffocation, but moving its
chest with difficulty at feeling the first caress of fresh air.

Magdalena recalled the vague sensation he had experienced during his
journey hither,-- that of something alive moving inside the thick
load on his back. A weak, suffocated whining pursued him in his flight....
The mother had left the little one asleep in the cool darkness of
the alcove, and they, without knowing it, had carried it off together
with the bed-clothes. Magdalena's frightened eyes now looked questioningly
at his companion. What were they to do with the child?... But that
evil soul was laughing away like a very demon. "It's yours; I present
it to you.... Eat it with potatoes." And he went off with all the
spoils. Magdalena was left standing in doubt, while he cradled the
child in his arms. The poor little thing!... It looked just like his
own Tono, when he sang him to sleep; just like him when he was ill
and leaned his little head upon his father's bosom, while the parent
wept, fearing for the child's life.

The same little soft, pink feet; the same downy flesh, with skin as soft as silk.... The infant had
ceased to cry, looking with surprised eyes at the robber, who was caressing it like a nurse.
"Lullaby, my poor little thing! There, there, my little king... child
Jesus! Look at me. I'm your uncle." But Magdalena stopped laughing,
thinking of the mother, of her desperate grief when she would return
to the house.

The loss of her little fortune would be her least concern. The child!

Where was she to find her child?... He knew what mothers were like.

Peluchona was the worst of women, yet he had seen even her weep and moan before her little one
in danger. He gazed toward the sun, which was beginning to sink in
a majestic summer sunset.

There was still time to take the infant back to the house before
its parents would return.

And if he should encounter them, he would lie, saying that he had found the infant in the middle of the
street; he would extricate himself as well as he could. Forward; he had never felt so brave.
Carrying the infant in his arms he walked at ease through the very streets over which he had lately
hastened with the anxious gait of fear. He mounted the staircase without encountering anybody.
Above, the same solitude. The door was still open, the bolt forced. Within, the disordered
rooms, the broken furniture, the drawers upon the floor, the overturned chairs and clothes strewn
about, filled him with a sensation of terror similar to that which assails the assassin who returns
to contemplate the corpse of his victim some time after the crime. He gave a last fond kiss to
the child and left it upon the bed.

"Good-bye, my pet!" But as he approached the head of the staircase
he heard footsteps, and in the rectangle of light that entered through
the open door there bulked the silhouette of a corpulent man.

At the same time there rang out the shrill shriek of a female voice, trembling with fright: "Robbers!...
Help!" Magdalena tried to escape, opening a passage for himself with
his head lowered, like a cornered rat; but he felt himself seized
by a pair of Cyclopean arms, accustomed to beating iron, and with
a mighty thrust he was sent rolling down the stairs.

On his face there were still signs of the bruises he had received
from contact with the steps, and from the blows rained upon him by
the infuriated neighbors.

"In sum, sir. Breaking and entering.

I'll get out in heaven knows how many years.... All for being kind-hearted.
To make matters worse, they don't even give me any consideration,
looking upon me as a clever criminal.

Everybody knows that the real thief was Chamorra whom I haven't seen
since.... And they ridicule me for a silly fool."

END THE LAST LION SCARCELY had the meeting of the honorable guild of blanquers come to order within
its chapel near the towers of Serranos, when Señor Vicente asked
for the floor.

He was the oldest tanner in Valencia. Many masters recalled their apprentice days and declared that he
was the same now as then, with his white, brush-like mustache, his face that looked like a sun
of wrinkles, his aggressive eyes and cadaverous thinness, as if all
the sap of his life had been consumed in the daily motions of his
feet and hands about the vats of the tannery.

He was the only representative of the guild's glories, the sole survivor of those blanquers
who were an honor to Valencian history.

The grandchildren of his former companions had become corrupted with
the march of time; they were proprietors of large establishments,
with thousands of workmen, but they would be lost if they ever had
to tan a skin with their soft, business-man's hands.

Only he could call himself a blanquer of the old school, working every
day in his little hut near the guild house; master and toiler at the
same time, with no other assistants than his sons and grandchildren;
his workshop was of the old kind, amid sweet domestic surroundings,
with neither threats of strikes nor quarrels over the day's pay.

The centuries had raised the level of the street, converting Señor Vicente's shop into a gloomy cave.
The door through which his ancestors had entered had grown smaller
and smaller from the bottom until it had become little more than a
window.

Five stairs connected the street with the damp floor of the tannery, and above, near a pointed arch, a
relic of medieval Valencia, floated like banners the skins that had been hung up to dry, wafting
about the unbearable odor of the leather. The old man by no means envied the moderns, in their luxuriously
appointed business offices.

Surely they blushed with shame on passing through his lane and seeing him,
at breakfast hour, taking the sun,-- his sleeves and trousers rolled up,
showing his thin arms and legs, stained red,-- with the pride of
a robust old age that permitted him to battle daily with the hides.

Valencia was preparing to celebrate the centenary of one of its famous saints, and the guild of
blanquers, like the other historic guilds, wished to make its contribution
to the festivities.

Señor Vicente, with the prestige of his years, imposed his will upon all the masters. The blanquers
should remain what they were.

All the glories of their past, long sequestrated in the chapel, must figure in the procession. And
it was high time they were displayed in public! His gaze, wandering about the chapel, seemed to
caress the guild's relics; the sixteenth century drums, as large as jars, that preserved within their
drumheads the hoarse cries of revolutionary Germania; the great lantern
of carved wood, torn from the prow of a galley; the red silk banner
of the guild, edged with gold that had become greenish through the
ages.

All this must be displayed during the celebration, shaking off the
dust of oblivion; even the famous lion of the blanquers! The moderns
burst into impious laughter. The lion, too?... Yes, the lion, too.
To Señor Vicente it seemed a dishonor on the part of the guild to
forget that glorious beast.

The ancient ballads, the accounts of celebrations that might be read in the city archives, the old
folks who had lived in the splendid epoch of the guilds with their
fraternal camaraderie,-- all spoke of the blanquers'lion; but now
nobody knew the animal, and this was a shame for the trade, a loss
to the city.

Their lion was as great a glory as the silk mart or the well of San
Vicente.

He knew very well the reason for this opposition on the part of the moderns. They feared to
assume the rôle of the lion. Never fear, my young fellows! He, with his burden of years, that
numbered more than seventy, would claim this honor.

"Well," went on the innocent and eminently respectable object of his suspicions, "of course
the absence of a date does not invalidate a will--it is matter for proof, that is all. But
there, I am not in a position to give any opinion about the case; it is quite beyond me, and
besides, that is not my business. But now, Miss Smithers, as you have once put yourself in
the custody of the Registry in the capacity of a will, might I ask if you have any suggestion
to make as to how you are to be dealt with. Obviously you cannot be locked up with the other
wills, and equally obviously it is against the rules to allow a will to go out of the custody
of the Court, unless by special permission of the Court. Also it is clear that I cannot put
any restraint upon the liberty of the subject and order you to remain with me. Indeed, I doubt
if it would be possible to do so by any means short of an Act of Parliament. Under these circumstances
I am, I confess, a little confused as to what course should be taken with reference to this
important alleged will."

"What I have to suggest, Sir," said Mr. Short, "is that a certified copy of the will should
be filed, and that there should be a special paragraph inserted in the affidavit of scripts
detailing the circumstances."

"Ah," said the learned Doctor, polishing his eye-glasses, "you have given me an idea. With
Miss Smithers' consent we will file something better than a certified copy of the will--we
will file a photographic copy. The inconvenience to Miss Smithers will be trifling, and it
may prevent questions being raised hereafter."

"Have you any objections to that, my dear?" asked Lady Holmhurst.

"Oh, no, I suppose not," said Augusta mournfully; "I seem to be public property now."

"Very well, then; excuse me for a moment," said the learned Doctor. "There is a photographer
close by whom I have had occasion to employ officially. I will write and see if he can come round."

In a few minutes an answer came back from the photographer that he would be happy to wait upon
Doctor Probate at three o'clock, up to which hour he was engaged.

"Well," said the Doctor, "it is clear that I cannot let Miss Smithers out of the custody of
the Court till the photograph is taken. Let me see, I think that yours was my last appointment
this morning. Now, what do you say to the idea of something to eat? We are not five minutes
drive from Simpson's, and I shall feel delighted if you will make a pleasure of a necessity."

Lady Holmhurst, who was getting very hungry, said that she should be most pleased, and, accordingly,
they all--with the exception of Mr. John Short, who departed about some business, saying that
he would return at three o'clock--drove off in Lady Holmhurst's carriage to the restaurant,
where this delightful specimen of the genus Registrar stood them a most sumptuous champagne
lunch, and made himself so agreeable, that both the ladies nearly fell in love with him, and
even Eustace was constrained to admit to himself that good things can come out of the Divorce
Court. Finally, the doctor wound up the proceedings, which were of a most lively order, and
included an account of Augusta's adventures, with a toast.

"I hear from Lady Holmhurst," he said, "that you two young people are going to take the preliminary
step--um--towards a possible future appearance in that Court with which I had for many years
the honor of being connected--that is, that you are going to get married. Now, matrimony is,
according to my somewhat extended experience, an undertaking of a venturesome order, though
cases occasionally come under one's observation where the results have proved to be in every
way satisfactory; and I must say that, if I may form an opinion from the facts as they are
before me, I never knew an engagement entered into under more promising or more romantic auspices.
Here the young gentleman quarrels with his uncle in taking the part of the young lady, and
thereby is disinherited of vast wealth. Then the young lady, under the most terrible circumstances,
takes steps of a nature that not one woman in five hundred would have done to restore to him
that wealth. Whether or no those steps will ultimately prove successful I do not know, and,
if I did, like Herodotus, I should prefer not to say; but whether the wealth comes or goes,
it is impossible but that a sense of mutual confidence and a mutual respect and admiration--that
is, if a more quiet thing, certainly, also, a more enduring thing, than mere 'love'--must and
will result from them. Mr. Meeson, you are indeed a fortunate man. In Miss Smithers you are
going to marry beauty, courage, and genius, and if you will allow an older man of some experience
to drop the official and give you a word of advice, it is this: always try to deserve your
good fortune, and remember that a man who, in his youth, finds such a woman, and is enabled
by circumstances to marry her, is indeed--

Smiled on by Joy, and cherished of the Gods.

"And now I will end my sermon, and wish you both health and happiness and fulness of days,"
and he drank off his glass of champagne, and looked so pleasant and kindly that Augusta longed
to kiss him on the spot, and as for Eustace, he shook hands with him warmly, and then and there
a friendship began between the two which endures till now.

And then they all went back to the office, and there was the photographer waiting with all
his apparatus, and astonished enough he was when he found out what the job was that he had
to do. However, the task proved an easy one enough, as the light of the room was suitable,
and the dark lines of cuttle ink upon Augusta's neck would, the man said, come out perfectly
in the photograph. So he took two or three shots at her back and then departed, saying that
he would bring a life-sized reproduction to be filed in the Registry in a couple of days.

And after that the learned Registrar also shook hands with them, and said that he need detain
them no longer, as he now felt justified in allowing Augusta out of his Custody. 

The intimate friends who smiled at him in former times had penetrated
the secret of his poverty and had been moved by pity to get together
and take turns at giving him alms under the pretext of gambling with
him.

And likewise his other friends, and even the servants who bowed to
him with their accustomed respect as he passed by, were in the secret.

And he, the poor dupe, was going about with his lordly airs, stiff
and solemn in his extinct grandeur, like the corpse of the lengendary
chieftain, which, after his death, was mounted on horseback and sallied
forth to win battles.

Farewell, Count de Sagreda! The heir of governors and viceroys can become a nameless soldier
in a legion of desperadoes and bandits; he can begin life anew as an adventurer in virgin lands,
killing that he may live; he can even watch with impassive countenance the wreck of his name
and his family history, before the bench of a tribunal.... But to
live upon the compassion of his friends!... Farewell forever, final
illusions!

The count has forgotten
his companion, who is waiting for him at a night restaurant.

He does not think of her; it is as if he never had seen her; as if she had never existed. He
thinks not at all of that which but a few hours before had made life worth living. He walks
along, alone with his disgrace, and each step of his seems to draw from the earth a dead thing; an
ancestral influence, a racial prejudice, a family boast, dormant hauteur, honor and fierce pride,
and as these awake, they oppress his breast and cloud his thoughts. How they must have laughed
at him behind his back, with condescending pity!... Now he walks
along more hurriedly than ever, as if he has at last made up his mind
just where he is going, and his emotion leads him unconsciously to
murmur with irony, as if he is speaking to somebody who is at his
heels and whom he desires to flee.

"Many thanks! Many thanks!" Just before dawn two revolver shots astound the guests of a hotel in
the vicinity of the Gare Saint-Lazare,-- one of those ambiguous establishments that offers a safe
shelter for amorous acquaintances begun on the thoroughfare. The attendants find in one of the rooms
a gentleman dressed in evening clothes, with a hole in his head,
through which escape bloody strips of flesh.

The man writhes like a worm upon the threadbare carpet.

His eyes, of a dull black, still glitter with life. There is nothing left in them of the image
of his sweet companion. His last thought, interrupted by death,
is of friendship, terrible in its pity; of the fraternal insult of
a generous, light-hearted compassion.

END LUXURY "I HAD her on my lap," said my friend Martinez, "and the warm weight of her healthy
body was beginning to tire me." The scene... same as usual in such
places.

Mirrors with blemished surfaces, and names scratched across them,
like spiders'webs; sofas of discolored velvet, with springs that creaked
atrociously; the bed decorated with theatrical hangings, as clean
and common as a sidewalk, and on the walls, pictures of bull-fighters
and cheap chromos of angelic virgins smelling a rose or languorously
contemplating a bold hunter.

"The scenery was that of the favorite cell in the convent of vice; an elegant room reserved for
distinguished patrons; and she was a healthy, robust creature, who seemed to bring a whiff of
the pure mountain air into the heavy atmosphere of this closed house,
saturated with cheap cologne, rice powder and the vapor from dirty
washbasins."

As she spoke to me she stroked the ribbons of her gown with childish
complacency; it was a fine piece of satin, of screaming yellow, somewhat
too tight for her body, a dress which I recalled having seen months
before on the delicate charms of another girl, who had since died,
according to reports, in the hospital.

"Poor girl!

She had become a sight!

Her coarse, abundant hair, combed in Greek fashion, was adorned with
glass beads; her cheeks, shiny from the dew of perspiration, were
covered with a thick layer of cosmetic; and as if to reveal her origin,
her arms, which were firm, swarthy and of masculine proportions, escaped
from the ample sleeves of her chorus-girl costume."

As she saw me follow with attentive glance all the details of her extravagant array, she thought
that I was admiring her, and threw her head back with a petulant expression. "And such a simple creature!...
She hadn't yet become acquainted with the customs of the house, and told the truth,-- all
the truth-- to the men who wished to know her history. They called her Flora; but her real name was Mari-Pepa.
She wasn't the orphan of a colonel or a magistrate, nor did she concoct
the complicated tales of love and adventure that her companions did,
in order to justify their presence in such a place.

The truth; always the truth; she would yet be hanged for her frankness. Her parents were comfortably
situated farmers in a little town of Aragón; owned their fields, had
two mules in the barn, bread, wine, and enough potatoes for the year round;
and at night the best fellows in the place came one after the other
to soften her heart with serenade upon serenade, trying to carry
off her dark, healthy person together with the four orchards she had
inherited from her grandfather."'But what could you expect, my dear
fellow?... I couldn't bear those people.

They were too coarse for me. I was born to be a lady. And tell me, why
can't I be? Don't I look as good as any of them?...'"And she snuggled her
head against my shoulder, like the docile sweetheart she was,-- a slave
subjected to all sorts of caprices in exchange for being clothed handsomely."'Those
fellows,'she continued,'made me sick.

I ran off with the student,-- understand?-- the son of the town magistrate, and we wandered about until
he deserted me, and I landed here, waiting for something better to turn up. You see, it's a
short tale.... I don't complain of anything. I'm satisfied.'"And to show how happy she was,
the unhappy girl rode astride my legs, thrust her hard fingers through my
hair, rumpling it, and sang a tango in horrible fashion, in her strong,
peasant voice."

I confess that I was seized with an impulse to speak to her'in the name of morality,'-- that hypocritical
desire we all possess to propagate virtue when we are sated and desire
is dead.

"She raised her eyes, astonished to see me look so solemn, preaching to her, like a missionary
glorifying chastity with a prostitute on his knees; her gaze wandered continually from my austere
countenance to the bed close by. Her common sense was baffled before the incongruity between such
virtue and the excesses of a moment before." Suddenly she seemed to understand, and an outburst
of laughter swelled her fleshy neck. "'The deuce!... How amusing you are! And with what a face
you say all these things! Just like the priest of my home town....'" No, Pepa, I'm serious.
I believe you're a good girl; you don't realize what you've gone into, and I'm warning you. You've
fallen very low, very low. You're at the bottom. Even within the career of vice, the majority
of women resist and deny the caresses that are required of you in this house. There is yet
time for you to save yourself.

Your parents have enough for you to live on; you didn't come here under the necessity of poverty.
Return to your home, and the past will be forgotten; you can tell them a lie, invent some sort
of tale to justify your flight, and who knows?... One of the fellows
that used to serenade you will marry you, you'll have children and
you'll be a respectable woman.

"The girl became serious when she saw that I was speaking in earnest. Little by little she began
to slip from my knees until she was on her feet, eyeing me fixedly,
as if she saw before her some strange person and an invisible wall
had arisen between the two."'Go back to my home!'she exclaimed in
harsh accents.'Many thanks.

I know very well what that means. Get up before dawn, work like a slave, go out in the fields,
ruin your hands with callouses. Look, see how my hands still show them.'"And she made me feel the
rough lumps that rose on the palms of her strong hands."'And all this, in exchange for what? For
being respectable?... Not a bit of it!

I'm not that crazy. So much for respectability!'"And she accompanied these words with some indecent motions
that she had picked up from her companions."

Afterwards, humming a tune, she went over to the mirror to survey herself, and smilingly greeted the reflection
of her powdered hair, covered with false pearls, which shone out
of the cracked mirror.

She contracted her lips, which were rouged like those of a clown. "Growing more and more firm
in my virtuous rôle, I continued to sermonize her from my chair, enveloping this hypocritical propaganda
in sonorous words. She was making a bad choice; she must think of the future. The present could
not be worse. What was she?

Less than a slave; a piece of furniture; they exploited her, they
robbed her, and afterwards... afterwards it would be still worse;
the hospital, repulsive diseases...."

But again her harsh laughter interrupted me. "'Quit it, boy. Don't bother me.'" And planting
herself before me she wrapped me in a gaze of infinite compassion.

"'Why my dear fellow, how silly you are! Do you imagine that I can go back to that dog's life,
after having tasted this one?... No, sir! I was born for luxury.'" And, with devoted admiration
sweeping her glance across the broken chairs, the faded sofa, and that bed which was a public
thoroughfare, she began to walk up and down, revelling in the rustle of her train as it dragged
across the room, and caressing the folds of that gown which seemed still to preserve the warmth
of the other girl's body. "END RABIES FROM all the countryside the neighbors of the huerta flocked
to Caldera's cabin, entering it with a certain meekness, a mingling of emotion and fear. How
was the boy?

Was he improving?... Uncle Pascal, surrounded by his wife, his daughters-in-law and even the most
distant relatives, who had been gathered together by misfortune, received
with melancholy satisfaction this interest of the entire vicinity
in the health of his son.

Yes, he was getting better. For two days he had not been attacked by that horrible thing which
set the cabin in commotion. And Caldera's laconic farmer friends, as well as the women, who were vociferous
in the expression of their emotions, appeared at the threshold of
the room, asking timidly," How do you feel?

"The only son of Caldera was in there, sometimes in bed, in obedience
to his mother, who could conceive of no illness without the cup of
hot water and seclusion between the bed-sheets; at other times he
sat up, his jaws supported by his hands, gazing obstinately into the
furthermost corner of the room.

His father, wrinkling his shaggy white brows, would walk about when left alone, or, through force of
habit, take a look at the neighboring fields, but without any desire
to bend over and pluck out any of the weeds that were beginning to
sprout in the furrows.

Much this land mattered to him now,-- the earth in whose bowels he
had left the sweat of his body and the strength of his limbs!... His
son was all he had,-- the fruit of a late marriage,-- and he was a
sturdy youth, as industrious and taciturn as his father; a soldier
of the soil, who required neither orders nor threat to fulfil his
duties; ready to awake at midnight when it was his turn to irrigate
his land and give the fields drink under the light of the stars; quick
to spring from his bed on the hard kitchen bench, throwing off the
covers and putting on his hemp sandals at the sound of the early rooster's
reveille.

Uncle Pascal
had never smiled. He was the Latin type of father; the fearful master of the house, who, on returning
from his labors, ate alone, served by his wife, who stood by with
an expression of submission.

But this grave, harsh mask of an omnipotent master concealed a boundless
admiration for his son, who was his best work.

How quickly he loaded a cart! How he perspired as he managed the hoe with
a vigorous forward and backward motion that seemed to cleave him at the
waist!

Who could ride a pony like him, gracefully jumping on to his back
by simply resting the toe of a sandal upon the hind legs of the animal?...
He didn't touch wine, never got mixed up in a brawl, nor was he afraid
of work.

Through good luck he had pulled a high number in the military draft,
and when the feast of San Juan came around he intended to marry a
girl from a near-by farm,-- a maiden that would bring with her a few
pieces of earth when she came to the cabin of her new parents.

Happiness; an honorable and peaceful continuation of the family traditions; another Caldera,
who, when Uncle Pascal grew old, would continue to work the lands
that had been fructified by his ancestors, while a troop of little
Calderitas, increasing in number each year, would play around the
nag harnessed to the plow, eyeing with a certain awe their grandpa,
his eyes watery from age and his words very concise, as he sat in
the sun at the cabin door.

Christ!

And how man's illusions vanish!... One Saturday, as Pascualet was
coming home from his sweetheart's house, along one of the paths of
the huerta, about midnight, a dog had bitten him; a wretched, silent
animal that jumped out from behind a sluice; as the young man crouched
to throw a stone at it, the dog bit into his shoulder.

His mother, who used to wait for him on the nights when he went courting,
burst into wailing when she saw the livid semicircle, with its red
stain left by the dog's teeth, and she bustled about the hut preparing
poultices and drinks.

The youth laughed at his mother's fears." Quiet, mother, quiet! "It wasn't the first time that
a dog had bitten him.

His body still showed faint signs of bites that he had received in childhood, when he used to go
through the huerta throwing stones at the dogs. Old Caldera spoke to him from bed, without displaying
any emotion. On the following day he was to go to the veterinary and have his flesh cauterized by a burning
iron. So he ordered, and there was nothing further to be said about
the matter.

The young man submitted without flinching to the operation, like
a good, brave chap of the Valencian huerta.

He had four days'rest in all, and even at that, his fondness for
work caused him new sufferings and he aided his father with pain-tortured
arm.

Saturdays, when he came to his sweetheart's farmhouse, she always asked after his health." How's the bite getting
along?

"He would shrug his shoulders gleefully before the eyes of the maiden and the two would finally
sit down in a corner of the kitchen, remaining in mute contemplation
of each other, or speaking of the clothes and the bed for their future
home, without daring to come close to each other; there they sat
erect and solemn, leaving between their bodies a space" wide enough
for a sickle to pass through, "as the girl's father smilingly put it.

More than a month passed by. Caldera's wife was the only one that did not forget the accident.
She followed her son about with anxious glances. Ah, sovereign queen! The huerta seemed to have
been abandoned by God and His holy mother. Over at Templat's cabin a child was suffering the
agonies of hell through having been bitten by a mad dog.

All the huerta folk were running in terror to have a look at the poor creature; a spectacle that
she herself did not dare to gaze upon because she was thinking of her own son. If her Pascualet,
as tall and sturdy as a tower, were to meet with the same fate as that unfortunate child!... One
day, at dawn, Caldera's son was unable to arise from his kitchen bench, and his mother helped him walk
to the large nuptial bed, which occupied a part of the estudi, the best room in the cabin.
He was feverish, and complained of acute pain in the spot where he had been bitten; an awful chill
ran through his whole body, making his teeth chatter and veiling his eyes with a yellowish
opacity. Don Jose, the oldest doctor in the huerta, came on his ancient mare, with his eternal
recipe of purgatives for every class of illness, and bandages soaked in salt water for wounds. Upon examining
the sick man he made a wry face. Bad! Bad! This was a more serious
matter; they would have to go to the solemn doctors in Valencia, who knew
more than he. Caldera's wife saw her husband harness the cart and compel
Pascualet to get into it. The boy, relieved of his pain, smiled assent,
saying that now he felt nothing more than a slight twinge.

When they returned to the cabin the father seemed to be more at ease. A doctor from the city had
pricked Pascualet's sore.

"I don't know, I'm sure," said Augusta, with a sigh. "It doesn't seem quite fair, does it?
But then, you see, there was no money."

Just then John Short came up. He had been to speak to his brother. Augusta being a novelist,
and therefore a professional student of human physiognomy, was engaged in studying the legal
types before her, which she found resolved themselves into two classes--the sharp, keen-faced
class and the solid, heavy-jawed class.

"Who on earth are they all?" she asked.

"Oh," he said, "that's the Attorney-General. He appears with Fiddlestick, Q.C., Pearl, and
Bean for the defendant Addison. Next to him is the Solicitor-General, who, with Playford, Q.C.,
Middlestone, Blowhard, and Ross, is for the other defendant, Roscoe. Next to him is Turphy,
Q.C., with the spectacles on; he is supposed to have a great effect on a jury. I don't know
the name of his junior, but he looks as though he were going to eat one--doesn't he? He is
for one of the legatees. That man behind is Stickon; he is for one of the legatees also. I
suppose that he finds probate and divorce an interesting subject, because he is always writing
books about them. Next to him is Howles, who, my brother says, is the best comic actor in the
court. The short gentleman in the middle is Telly; he reports for the Times. You see, as this
is an important case, he has got somebody to help him to take it--that long man with a big
wig. He, by-the-way, writes novels, like you do, only not half such good ones. The next"--but
at this moment Mr. John Short was interrupted by the approach of a rather good-looking man,
who wore an eye-glass continually fixed in his right eye. He was Mr. News, of the great firm
News and News, who were conducting the case on behalf of the defendants.

"Mr. Short, I believe?" said Mr. News, contemplating his opponent's youthful form with pity,
not unmixed with compassion.

"Yes."

"Um, Mr. Short, I have been consulting with my clients and--um, the Attorney and Solicitor-General
and Mr. Fiddlestick, and we are quite willing to admit that there are circumstances of doubt
in this case which would justify us in making an offer of settlement." 

The leather, after this process, is soaked in petroleum or carbon bisulphide containing a little
India-rubber solution, and is finally washed with petroleum benzoline.

Should the mixture be found to be too thick, it is thinned down with benzoline spirit until
it is about the consistency of molasses at the ordinary temperature. The leather so prepared
is not liable to stretch, and can be joined in the usual way by copper riveting, or the ends
can be sewn. A good material for smaller belts, and for strings and bands for connecting larger
ones, is that recently patented by Vornberger, in which the gut of
cattle is the basis.

After careful cleansing, the gut is split up into strands, and treated with a bath of pearlash
water for several days. The strands are then twisted together, and after being dipped in a
solution of Condy's fluid, are dried. They are then sulphured in a wooden box for twenty-four
hours, after which the twisting can be completed. They are by this process rendered pliable,
and can be used in this state for stitching the leather ends of larger
belts, or can be stiffened by plunging them into a bath of isinglass
and white wine vinegar.

After drying they are susceptible of a fine polish, emery cloth being
usually employed, and the final "finish" is given to the material
with gum arabic and oil.

Canvas and woven fabrics, coated with India-rubber, are also now being
used for driving belts and for covering machine rollers.

As this material can be made in one piece, without the necessity of a joint, it is uniform in
strength, and is recommended as a substitute for leather belts requiring joints. A patented material
of this description is due to Zingler, who boils the canvas or similar woven fabric under
pressure in a solution of tungstate of soda for three hours. It is then transferred to a bath
of acetate of lead solution, and drained, dried, and stretched.

When in this condition it is coated, by means of a spreading machine,
with repeated layers of a composition consisting of India-rubber,
antimony sulphide, peroxide of iron, sulphur, lime, asbestos, chalk,
sulphate of zinc, and carbonate of magnesia.

When a sufficient thickness of this composition has been applied, it is vulcanized under pressure
at a temperature of 250° F., or a little higher. The material produced in this manner is said to
have the strength and durability of the best leather belts.

Attempts have recently been made to obtain a glue suitable for joining the ends of driving
belts, without the use of metal fastenings or sewing, and Messrs.
David Kirkaldy& Son have reported favorably on such a belt glue,
which is being introduced by Mr. W. V. Van Wyk, of 30 and 31 Newgate
street, E. C. In the test applied by them, a joint of this "Hercules
glue," as it is called, in a 4 in. single belt was stronger than the
solid leather.

When a tensile stress of 2,174 lb., equivalent to 2,860 lb. per square inch of section, was
applied, the leather gave way, leaving the joint intact. Belts fastened by a scarf joint with
this glue are said to be of absolutely the same thickness and pliability
at the joint as in the main portion of the belt, and thus insure freedom
from noise and perfect steadiness.

The instructions for use are simple, and it requires only fifteen minutes for the joint to
set before being ready for use. From a rough chemical analysis of the sample submitted to
us, we find that it consists of gelatine, with small amounts of mineral ingredients. Josef Horadam,
some few years ago, patented in Germany a process for preserving glues from decomposition, by
the addition of from 8 to 10 per cent. of magnesium or calcium chlorides. The addition of these
salts does not impair in any way the strength of the glue, but prevents it from decomposing, and
it may be that the "Hercules glue" is preserved in a similar manner.

A cement of this nature, if thoroughly to be relied on, must be of great value, although the
great variation in the quality of leather, apart from the difficulty hitherto experienced of securely
connecting the ends together, opens a wide field for a material of uniform composition, and capable
of being made in one piece in suitable lengths for driving belts
and other machine gear.-- Industries.***** INAUGURATION OF THE STATUE
OF DENIS PAPIN.

A
large crowd was present recently at the inauguration of the statue
of Denis Papin, which took place in the court of the Conservatoire
des Arts et Metiers, under the presidency of Mr. Lockroy, Minister
of Commerce and the Industries.

In the large hall in which the addresses were made there were several
municipal counselors, the representatives of the Minister of War,
Captains Driant and Frocard, several members of the Institute, and
others.

A delegation from the Syndical Chamber of Conductors, Enginemen, and Stokers, which contributed through
a subscription toward the erection of the statue, was present at
the ceremony with its banner.

Mr. Lanssedat, superintendent of the Conservatoire, received the guests,
assisted by all the professors. Mr. Lanssedat opened the proceedings
by an address in which he paid homage to the scientists who were persecuted
while living, to Denis Papin, who did for mechanics what Nicolas
le Blanc did for chemistry, and to those men whose entire life was
devoted to the triumph of the cause of science.

After this, an address was delivered by Mr. Lockroy, who expatiated upon the great services rendered
by the master of all the sciences known at that epoch, who was in turn
physician, physicist, mechanician, and mathematician, and who, in
discovering the properties of steam, laid the foundation of modern
society, which, so to speak, arose from this incomparable discovery.

Speeches were afterward made by Mr. Feray d'Essonnes, president of the Syndical Chamber of Conductors,
Enginemen, and Stokers, and by Prof. Comberousse, of the Central School, who broadly outlined
the life of Papin. Along about four o'clock, the Minister of Commerce
and the Industries, followed by all the invited guests, repaired
to the court, and the veil that hid the statue was then lifted amid
acclamation.

Papin is represented as standing and performing an experiment. Upon the pedestal is the following
inscription: DENIS PAPIN BORN IN 1647, DIED ABOUT 1714, INVENTED THE
STEAM ENGINE IN 1690 NATIONAL SUBSCRIPTION, 1886. The inauguration
is due to the initiative of Mr. Lanssedat, for it was he who in 1885
suggested the national subscription, which was quickly raised. Denis
Papin was born at Blois on the 22d of August, 1647.

He was the son of a physician. After the example of his father and of several of his relatives,
he studied medicine and took his degree; but his taste for mathematics, and especially for experimental
physics, soon led him to abandon medicine.

It was in 1690 that he published in the Actes of Leipsic the memoir which will forever and irrevocably
assign to him the priority in the invention of steam engines and
steamboats, and the title of which was: "New method of cheaply obtaining
the greatest motive powers."

In 1704,
Papin, poor and obliged to do everything for himself, finished his
first steamboat; but for want of money he was unable to make a trial
of it until August 15, 1707.

The trial was made upon the Fulda and Wera, affluents of the Weser.

The operation succeeded wonderfully, and, shortly afterward, Papin,
being desirous of rendering the experiment complete, put his boat
on the Weser; but the stupid boatmen of this river drew his craft
ashore and broke it and its engine in pieces.

This catastrophe ruined Papin, and annihilated all his hopes.

The great man, falling into shocking destitution, broken down and
conquered by adversity, returned to England in 1712 to seek aid and
an asylum.

Everywhere repulsed, he returned to Cassel about 1714, sad and discouraged;
and the man to whom we owe that prodigy, the steam engine, that instrument
of universal welfare and riches, disappeared without leaving any trace
of his death.-- Le Monde Illustre.***** DECORATION.

THE STUDY OF ORNAMENTS. [Footnote: Authorities consulted in preparing this paper: "Analysis of
Ornament," Wornum; "Truth, Beauty, and Power," Dresser; "Lectures on Art." F. W. Moody; "Hopes and Fears
for Art," Wm.

Morris; "Ornamental Art," Hulme; "Manuals of Art Education," Prang.] By MISS MARIE R. GARESCHE,
St. Louis High School. Decoration is the science and art of beautifying objects and rendering them
more pleasing to the eye.

As an art, individual taste and skill have much to do with the perfection of the results; as
a science, it is subject to certain invariable laws and principles which cannot be violated,
and a study of which, added to familiarity with some of the best
examples, will enable any one to appreciate and understand it, even
if lacking the skill and power to create original and beautiful designs.

The study of decoration offers many advantages. It cultivates the imagination
and the taste; it develops our capacity for recognizing and enjoying
the beautiful in both nature and art; it adds to the pleasure and
refinement of life.

Practically, its importance can hardly be overestimated, as it enters into almost all the industrial
pursuits. We can think of but few classes of objects, even the most simple, in which some attempt
at ornamentation is not made.

Ornament is one of the principal means of enhancing the value of the raw material.
A piece of carved wood, or an artistically decorated porcelain vase, worth
perhaps many hundred dollars, if reduced to the commercial value of the
material of which they are composed would be valued at but a few
dollars or cents.

The higher the ornamentation ranks, from an artistic point of view,
the greater becomes the value of the article to which it is applied.

Knowledge of good designs is thus evidently important, to the purchaser
of the object ornamented as well as to the designer who planned it.

This can only be attained by cultivation.

To know and appreciate the best ornament should be an aim set forth in any scheme of general education.
This knowledge and appreciation can be obtained by studying the application of the laws and principles
of ornamental art as exemplified in the works of masters, and also
by endeavoring to apply these principles in designs of our own creation.

PRINCIPLES OF ORNAMENT.

We can only arrive at a knowledge of these principles by a consideration of the object. In other
words, nature and history must be studied.

First, nature, for she is the primary source and origin of all good ornament, whether ancient
or modern; and if, as in everything else, we would not become servile imitators and weak copyists,
we must go to the fountain head. Second, history, for by the study of the ornament of past
ages we will not only become acquainted with the highest developments
of which ornamental art is capable, but will moreover broaden our
views as to its object and scope, and will stimulate our own imagination
and invention, by leading us to the contemplation of the myriad beautiful
and protean forms it has assumed, when surrounding conditions, such
as religion, climate, temperament, nationality, etc., have been different.

Knowledge of historic ornament will also prevent the imposition on the public, so common in our
day, of weak and unworthy productions which claim to be based on
classic originals, and which constitute a great stumbling block to
the progress and appreciation of good art.

The result is somewhat analogous to that produced upon conscientious but ill-informed minds, who make
every effort to appreciate and enjoy the spurious productions of a great author, not knowing
that they are not genuine.

POSITION AND SCOPE OF ORNAMENTAL OR DECORATIVE ART. I. Object of Ornamental
Art.-- The object or purpose of ornament, as in the other fine arts,
is to please.

In music and poetry this enjoyment is conveyed to the mind through the ear; in the decorative and
pictorial arts, through the eye. Generally, the meaning that we find in such productions, the appeal
that they make to the understanding or feelings, is as great a source
of interest to us as their intrinsic beauty.

Poetry and vocal music are greatly dependent for their effect upon the meaning they convey in words;
painting and sculpture, upon the ideas or sentiments they suggest.

In all four, however, and most decidedly in music unaccompanied by words, the appeal is frequently
made almost exclusively to the æsthetic sense, the mind or intellect
remaining almost dormant under the impression.

Gems of rhythmical verse, such as Poe's "Bells," "The Raven," Whistler's "Symphonies in Color," nameless
forms in statuary, expressionless save in the mere beauty of their proportions and curves,
and, as has been stated, nearly the entire field of instrumental music,
are cases in point. In the ornamental and decorative arts, as well
as in architecture (from which they are indeed inseparable), beauty
alone, in like manner, should be the principal aim and purpose.

In the former, of course, it is indispensable that such should be
the case, as they are entirely subordinate and accessory in their
nature, their only raison d'etre being to beautify or render more
agreeable objects already created for some purpose.

It must not be imagined that such artistic impressions-- viz., where the appeal is made almost
solely to the æsthetic sense, regardless of the reason, judgment, or feelings-- are necessarily
of a lower order. Their effect is almost analogous to that which nature herself produces upon
us-- the starry heavens, the mighty ocean, the tender flower. The impression, whether the object
belongs to the domain of nature or art, may be a merely sensuous one; and if it stops there, as
it certainly does for the majority of people, it ranks without doubt far below productions where
the æsthetic element is only used to stimulate and heighten the appeal to the mind or the feelings.
But if it extend beyond, and makes the sensuous impression but the parting link to the contemplation
of ideal, abstract beauty, without the intermediate aid of the heart or the reason, it is the
shortest and quickest road toward the realization of the infinite, and makes us indeed feel
that it is but a short step "from nature up to nature's God." Thus architecture, which embodies,
more than any other of the space arts, principles of abstract beauty, has been with reason
called the noblest of them all. However, ornamental and architectural forms frequently do
convey a meaning, which we term symbolism in art. If this symbolism does not detract from the first
object of ornament-- viz., to beautify-- it is perfectly legitimate
and proper.

It is impossible to fully appreciate many phases of art, as, for
instance, the Egyptian and the early Christian, if we leave out of
sight the symbolism which pervades them.

While beauty, or capacity for pleasing the eye, may be very definitely said to be the aim of ornamental
art, it is difficult to arrive at a universal standard as to what
constitutes beauty.

What pleases one person will not always please another. The child loves glittering objects and gaudy
combinations, which the mature taste of the man declares extravagant and unharmonious. Savages decorate
their weapons, utensils, and their own persons with ornaments that appear uncouth and barbarous
to civilized people.

Besides these differences in taste, which are due to different degrees of mental development,
and which can consequently be easily disposed of, we find among highly civilized and cultured nations,
at different periods, a great diversity of tastes. These varying and sometimes apparently conflicting
products of ornamental art we designate as styles, viz., Egyptian style, Greek style, Gothic style, etc. So marked
are the differences between them that we can sometimes tell at a glance to what period and to what style
a small fragment of decoration belongs. Notwithstanding these differences,
which at first may appear very great, a careful study of the best styles--
those that achieved the greatest and most lasting popularity-- will
reveal the fact that they are all based upon certain fundamental laws
and principles, and that all are good, bad, or indifferent according
as they conform to or violate these principles.

These essentials having been preserved, the opportunities for the exercise of individual or national
taste are almost boundless.

By this time James Short had completely recovered his nerve, and was, indeed, almost oblivious
of the fact that there was anybody present in the court, except the learned Judge and himself.
Going back to the beginning, he detailed the early history of the relationship between Eustace
Meeson and his uncle, the publisher, with which this record has nothing to do. Thence he passed
to the history of Augusta's relation with the firm of Meeson and Co., which, as nearly everybody
in the court, not excepting the Judge, had read "Jemima's Vow," was very interesting to his
auditors. Then he went on to the scene between Augusta and the publisher, and detailed how
Eustace had interfered, which interference had led to a violent quarrel, resulting in the young
man's disinheritance. Passing on, he detailed how the publisher and the published had taken
passage in the same vessel, and the tragic occurrences which followed down to Augusta's final
rescue and arrival in England, and finally ended his spirited opening by appealing to the Court
not to allow its mind to be influenced by the fact that since these events the two chief actors
had become engaged to be married, which struck him, he said, as a very fitting climax to so
romantic a story.

At last he ceased, and amidst a little buzz of applause, for the speech had really been a very
fine one, sat down. As he did so he glanced at the clock. He had been on his legs for nearly
two hours, and yet it seemed to him but a very little while. In another moment he was up again
and had called his first witness--Eustace Meeson.

Eustace's evidence was of a rather formal order, and was necessarily limited to an account
of the relations between his uncle and himself, and between himself and Augusta. Such as it
was, however, he gave it very well, and with a complete openness that appeared to produce a
favorable impression on the Court.

Then Fiddlestick, Q.C., rose to cross-examine, devoting his efforts to trying to make Eustace
admit that his behaviour had been of a nature to amply justify his uncle's behaviour. But there
was not very much to be made out of it. Eustace detailed all that had passed freely enough,
and it simply amounted to the fact that there had been angry words between the two as regards
the treatment that Augusta had met with at the hands of the firm. In short, Fiddlestick could
not do anything with him, and, after ten minutes of it, sat down without having advanced the
case to any appreciable extent. Then several of the other counsel asked a question or two apiece,
after which Eustace was told to stand down, and Lady Holmhurst was called. Lady Holmhurst's
evidence was very short, merely amounting to the fact that she had seen Augusta's shoulders
on board the Kangaroo, and that there was not then a sign of tattoo marks upon them, and when
she saw them again in London they were tattooed. No attempt was made to cross-examine her,
and on the termination of her evidence, the Court adjourned for lunch. When it reassembled
James Short called Augusta, and a murmur of expectation arose from the densely crowded audience,
as--feeling very sick at heart, and looking more beautiful than ever--she stepped towards the box.

As she did so the Attorney-General rose.

"I must object, my Lord," he said, "on behalf of the defendants, to this witness being allowed
to enter the box."

"Upon what grounds, Mr. Attorney?" said his Lordship.

"Upon the ground that her mouth is, ipso facto, closed. If we are to believe the plaintiff's
story, this young lady is herself the will of Jonathan Meeson, and, being so, is certainly,
I submit, not competent to give evidence. There is no precedent for a document giving evidence,
and I presume that the witness must be looked upon as a document."

"But, Mr. Attorney," said the Judge, "a document is evidence, and evidence of the best sort."

"Undoubtedly, my Lord; and we have no objection to the document being exhibited for the court
to draw its own conclusion from, but we deny that it is entitled to speak in its own explanation.
A document is a thing which speaks by its written characters. It cannot take to itself a tongue,
and speak by word of mouth also; and, in support of this, I may call your Lordship's attention
to the general principles of law governing the interpretation of written documents."

"I am quite aware of those principles, Mr. Attorney, and I cannot see that they touch this
question."

"As your Lordship pleases. Then I will fall back upon my main contention, that Miss Smithers
is, for the purposes of this case, a document and nothing but a document, and has no more right
to open her mouth in support of the plaintiff's case, than would any paper will, if it could
be miraculously endowed with speech."

"Well," said the Judge, "it certainly strikes me as a novel point. What have you to say to
it, Mr. Short?"

All eyes were now turned upon James, for it was felt that if the point was decided against
him the case was lost.

"The point to which I wish you to address yourself, Mr. Short," went on the learned Judge,
"is--Is the personality of Miss Smithers so totally lost and merged in what, for want of a
better term I must call her documentary capacity, as to take away from her the right to appear
before this Court like any other sane human being, and give evidence of events connected with
its execution?"

"If your Lordship pleases," said James, "I maintain that this is not so. I maintain that the
document remains the document; and that for all purposes, including the giving of evidence
concerning its execution, Miss Smithers still remains Miss Smithers. How was he to approach her,
breaking through the guarded aloofness in which Jewish families dwell? To whom was he to go for
an explanation of this unexpected change?... Braving the icy reception with which the Aboabs greeted
him, he entered their place under various pretexts. The proprietors received him with frigid
politeness, as if he were an unwelcome customer. The Jews who came in on business eyed him
with insolent curiosity, as if but a short time before they had been
discussing him.

One morning he saw, engaged in conversation with Zabulon, a man of about forty, of short stature,
somewhat round shouldered with spectacles.

He wore a high silk hat, a loose coat and a large golden chain across his waistcoat. In a
somewhat sing-song voice he was speaking of the greatness of Buenos Aires, of the future that awaited
those of his race in that city, of the good business he had done. The affectionate attention
with which the old man and his son listened to the man suggested a thought to Aguirre that
sent all the blood to his heart, at the same time producing a chill in the rest of his body. He
shuddered with surprise. Could it be he?... And after a few seconds, instinctively, without any
solid grounds, he himself gave the answer. Yes; it was he; there had been no mistake. Without
a doubt he beheld before him Luna's promised husband, who had just returned from South America.
And if he still had any doubts as to the correctness of his conjecture, he was strengthened
in his belief by a rapid glance from the man,-- a cold, scornful look that was cast upon him furtively,
while the looker continued to speak with his relatives.

That night he saw him again on Royal Street. He saw him, but not alone. He was arm in arm with
Luna, who was dressed in black; Luna, who leaned upon him as if he were already her husband;
the two walked along with all the freedom of Jewish engaged couples. She did not see Aguirre
or did not wish to see him. As she passed him by she turned her head, pretending to be engrossed
in conversation with her companion.

Aguirre's friends, who were gathered in a group on the sidewalk before the Exchange, laughed at the
meeting, with the light-heartedness of persons who look upon love
only as a pastime.

"Friend," said one of them to the Spaniard, "they've stolen her away from you. The Jew's carrying
her off.... It couldn't have been otherwise. They marry only among themselves... and that girl
has lots of money."

Aguirre did not sleep a wink that night; he lay awake planning the most horrible deeds of vengeance.
In any other country he knew what he would do; he would insult the Jew, slap him, fight a
duel, kill him; and if the man did not respond to such provocation,
he would pursue him until he left the field free.... But he lived
here in another world; a country that was ignorant of the knightly
procedure of ancient peoples.

A challenge to a duel would cause laughter, like something silly and extravagant. He could,
of course, attack his enemy right in the street, bring him to his
knees and kill him if he tried to defend himself.

But ah!

English justice did not recognize love nor did it accept the existence
of crimes of passion.

Yonder, half way up the slope of the mountain, in the ruins of the
castle that had been occupied by the Moorish kings of Gibraltar, he
had seen the prison, filled with men from all lands, especially Spaniards,
incarcerated for life because they had drawn the poniard under the
impulse of love or jealousy, just as they were accustomed to doing
a few metres further on, at the other side of the boundary.

The whip worked with the authorization of the law; men languished and died turning the wheel
of the pump.

A cold, methodical cruelty, a thousand times worse than the fanatic savagery of the Inquisition,
devoured human creatures, giving them nothing more than the exact amount of sustenance necessary
to prolong their torture.... No. This was another world, where his jealousy and his fury could
find no vent. And he would have to lose Luna without a cry of protest, without a gesture of
manly rebellion!... Now, upon beholding himself parted from her, he
felt for the first time the genuine importance of his love; a love
that had been begun as a pastime, through an exotic curiosity, and
which was surely going to upset his entire existence... What was he
to do?

He recalled the words of one of those inhabitants of Gibraltar who had accompanied him on Royal
Street,-- a strange mixture of Andalusian sluggishness and British
apathy.

"Take my word for it, friend, the chief Rabbi and those of the synagogue have a hand in this.
You were scandalizing them; everybody saw you making love in public.

You don't realize how important one of these fellows is. They enter the homes of the faithful
and run everything, giving out orders that nobody dares to disobey."

The following day Aguirre did not leave his street, and either walked up and down in front
of the Aboabs'house or stood motionless at the entrance to his hotel,
without losing sight for a moment of Luna's dwelling.

Perhaps she would come out! After the meeting of the previous day she must have lost her fear.
They must have a talk. Here it was three months since he had come to Gibraltar, forgetting
his career, in danger of ruining it, abusing the influence of his
relatives.

And was he going to leave that woman without exchanging a final word, without knowing the cause
for the sudden overturn?... Toward night-fall Aguirre experienced
a strange shudder of emotion, similar to that which he had felt in
the brokers'shop upon beholding the Jew that had just returned from
South America.

A woman came out of the Aboabs'house; she was dressed in black. It was Luna, just as he had seen her the
day before. She turned her head slowly and Aguirre understood that she
had seen him,-- that perhaps she had been watching him for a long
time hidden behind the blinds.

She began to walk hastily, without turning her head, and Aguirre followed her at a certain distance,
on the opposite sidewalk, jostling through the groups of Spanish
workmen who, with their bundles in their hands, were returning from
the Arsenal to the town of La Línea, before the sunset gun should
sound and the place be closed.

Thus he shadowed her along Royal Street, and as she arrived at the
Exchange, Luna continued by way of Church Street, passing by the Catholic
Cathedral.

Here there were less people about and the shops were fewer; except at the corners of the lanes where
there were small groups of men that had formed on coming from work.
Aguirre quickened his gait so as to catch up with Luna, while she,
as if she had guessed his intention, slackened her step. As they
reached the rear of the Protestant church, near the opening called
Cathedral Square, the two met.

"Luna! Luna!..." She turned her glance upon Aguirre, and then instinctively they made for the
end of the square, fleeing from the publicity of the street. They came to the Moorish arcades
of the evangelist temple, whose colors were beginning to grow pale,
vanishing into the shade of dusk.

Before either of them could utter a word they were enveloped in a wave of soft melody,-- music that seemed
to come from afar, stray chords from the organ, the voices of virgins
and children who were chanting in English with bird-like notes the
glory of the Lord.

Aguirre was at a loss for words.

All his angry thoughts were forgotten.

He felt like crying, like kneeling and begging something of that God,
whoever He might be, who was at the other side of the walls, lulled
by the hymn from the throat of the mystic birds with firm and virginal
voices: "Luna!... Luna!"

He could say nothing else, but the Jewess, stronger than he and
less sensitive to that music which was not hers, spoke to him in
a low and hurried voice.

She had stolen out just to see him; she must talk with him, say good-bye. It was the last time
they would meet. Aguirre heard her without fully understanding her words.
All his attention was concentrated upon her eyes, as if the five days
in which they had not met were the same as a long voyage, and as
if he were seeking in Luna's countenance some effect of the extended
lapse of time that had intervened.

Was she the same?... Yes it was she.

But her lips were somewhat pale with emotion; she pressed her lids tightly
together as if every word cost her a prodigious effort, as if every
one of them tore out part of her soul. Her lashes, as they met, revealed
in the corner of her eyes lines that seemed to indicate fatigue,
recent tears, sudden age.

The Spaniard was at last able to understand what she was saying.

But was it all true?... To part! Why? Why?... And as he stretched his arms out to her in the
vehemence of his entreaty Luna became paler still, huddling together timidly, her eyes dilated with
fear. It was impossible for their love to continue.

She must look upon all the past as a beautiful dream; perhaps the best of her life... but the
moment of waking had come. She was marrying, thus fulfilling her duty toward her family and
her race. The past had been a wild escapade, a childish flight of her exalted and romantic
nature.

The wise men of her people had clearly pointed out to her the dangerous consequences of such frivolity.
She must follow her destiny and be as her mother had been,-- like
all the women of her blood.

Upon the following day she was going to Tangier with her promised husband, Isaac Nuñez. He himself
and her relatives had counselled her to have one last interview with
the Spaniard, so as to put an end to an equivocal situation that might
compromise the honor of a good merchant and destroy the tranquility
of a peaceful man.

They would marry at Tangier, where her fiancé's family lived; perhaps
they would remain there; perhaps they would journey to South America
and resume business there.

At any rate, their love, their sweet adventure, their divine dream, was ended forever. "Forever!"
murmured Luis in a muffled voice. "Say it again. I hear it from your
lips, yet I can't believe my ears.

Say it once more. I wish to make sure." His voice was filled with supplication but at the same
time his clenched hand and his threatening glance terrified Luna, who
opened her eyes wide and pressed her lips tightly together, as if
restraining a sob.

The Jewess seemed to grow old in the shadows. The fiery bird of
twilight flashed through the air with its fluttering of red wings.

Closely following came a thunderclap that made the houses and ground tremble.... The sunset
gun! Aguirre, in his agony, could see in his mind's eye a high wall
of crags, flying gulls, the foamy, roaring sea, a misty evening light,
the same as that which now enveloped them.

"Do you remember, Luna? Do you remember?"... The roll of drums sounded from a near-by street,
accompanied by the shrill notes of the fife and the deep boom of
the bass drum, drowning with its belligerent sound the mystic, ethereal
chants that seemed to filter through the walls of the temple.

It was the evening patrol on its way to close the gates of the town.
The soldiers, clad in uniforms of greyish yellow, marched by, in time with
the tune from their instruments, while above their cloth helmets waved
the arms of the gymnast who was deafening the street with his blows
upon the drum head.

The two waited for the noisy patrol to pass. As the soldiers disappeared in the distance the melodies
from the celestial choir inside the church returned slowly to the
ears of the listeners.

The Spaniard was abject, imploring, passing from his threatening
attitude to one of humble supplication.

"Luna... Lunita! What you say is not true. It cannot be. To separate like this? Don't listen to any
of them. Follow the dictates of your heart.

There is still a chance for us to be happy. Instead of going off with that
man whom you do not love, whom you surely cannot love, flee with me."
"No," she replied firmly, closing her eyes as though she feared to
weaken if she looked at him.

"No. That is impossible. Your God is not my God.

Your people, not my people." In the Catholic Cathedral, near by, but out of sight, the bell rang with
a slow, infinitely melancholy reverberation. Within the Protestant
Church the choir of virgins was beginning a new hymn, like a flock
of joyous birds winging about the organ.

Afar, gradually becoming fainter and fainter and losing itself in
the streets that were covered by the shadows of night, sounded the
thunder of the patrol and the playful lisping of the fifes, hymning
the universal power of England to the tune of circus music.

"Your God! Your people!" exclaimed the Spaniard sadly.

"Here, where there are so many Gods! Here, where everybody is of your people!... Forget all that.
We are all equals in life. There is only one truth: Love." "Ding, dong!"
groaned the bell aloft in the Catholic Cathedral, weeping the death
of day.

"Lead Kindly Light!" sang the voices of the virgins and the children in the Protestant temple,
resounding through the twilight silence of the square. "No," answered Luna harshly, with an
expression that Aguirre had never seen in her before; she seemed to be another woman. "No.
You have a land, you have a nation, and you may well laugh at races
and religions, placing love above them.

We, on the other hand, wherever we may be born, and however much the laws may proclaim us the equals
of others, are always called Jews, and Jews we must remain, whether
we will or no. Our land, our nation, our only banner, is the religion
of our ancestors.

And you ask me to desert it,-- to abandon my people?... Sheer madness!" Aguirre listened to
her in amazement.

"Luna, I don't recognize you.... Luna, Lunita, you are another woman altogether.... Do you know
what I'm thinking of at this moment? I'm thinking of your mother, whom I did not know." He recalled
those nights of cruel uncertainty, when Luna's mother tore her jet-black
hair before the bed in which her child lay gasping; how she tried
to deceive the demon, the hated Huerco, who came to rob her of her
beloved daughter.

"Ah!
I, too, Luna, feel the simple faith of your mother,-- her innocent credulity. Love and despair simplify
our souls and remove from them the proud tinsel with which we clothe
them in moments of happiness and pride; love and despair render us
by their mystery, timid and respectful, like the simplest of creatures.

I feel what your poor mother felt during those nights.

I shudder at the presence of the Huerco in our midst. Perhaps it's that old fellow with the goat's whiskers
who is at the head of your people here; all of you are a materialistic sort, without imagination,
incapable of knowing true love; it seems impossible that you can be one of them.... You, Luna!
You! Don't laugh at what I say. But I feel a strong desire to kneel down here before you, to
stretch out upon the ground and cry:'Huerco, what do you wish? Have you come to carry off my
Luna?... Luna is not here. She has gone forever.

This woman here is my beloved, my wife. She has no name yet, but I'll give her one.'And to seize
you in my arms, as your mother did, to defend you against the black demon, and then to see you
saved, and mine forever; to confirm your new name with my caresses,
and to call you... my Only One, yes, my Only One.

Do you like the name?... Let our lives be lived together, with the whole world as our home." She
shook her head sadly. Very beautiful. One dream more. A few days earlier these words would have moved
her and would have made her weep.

But now!... And with cruel insistence she repeated "No, no. My God is
not your God. My race is not your race.

Why should we persist in attempting the impossible?..." When her people had spoken indignantly
about the love affair that was being bruited all about town; when the spiritual head of her community came
to her with the ire of an ancient prophet; when accident, or perhaps the warning of a fellow Jew,
had brought about the return of her betrothed, Isaac Nuñez, Luna felt awaking within her something
that had up to that time lain dormant.

The dregs of old beliefs, hatreds and hopes were stirred in the very
depths of her thought, changing her affections and imposing new duties.

She was a Jewess and would remain faithful to her race. She would not go to lose herself in barren
isolation among strange persons who hated the Jew through inherited
instinct.

Among her own kind she would enjoy the influence of the wife that is listened to in all family councils,
and when she would become old, her children would surround her with a religious veneration. She did
not feel strong enough to suffer the hatred and suspicion of that
hostile world into which love was trying to drag her,-- a world that
had presented her people only with tortures and indignities.

She wished to be loyal to her race, to continue the defensive march that her nation was realizing
across centuries of persecution. Soon she was inspired with compassion
at the dejection of her former sweetheart, and she spoke to him more
gently. She could no longer feign calmness or indifference. Did he
think that she could ever forget him?

Ah! Those days had been the sweetest in all her existence; the romance of her life, the blue flower
that all women, even the most ordinary, carry within their memories like a breath of poesy. "Do you imagine
that I don't know what my lot is going to be like?... You were the unexpected, the sweet disturbance
that beautifies life, the happiness of love which finds joy in all
that surrounds it and never gives thought to the morrow.

You are a man that stands out from all the rest; I know that. I'll many, I'll have many children,--
many!-- for our race is inexhaustible, and at night my husband will talk to me for hour after
hour about what we earned during the day. You... you are different.
Perhaps I would have had to suffer, to be on my guard lest I'd lose
you, but with all that you are happiness, you are illusion."

"Yes, I am all that," said Aguirre "I am all that because I love you.... Do you realize what
you are doing, Luna? It is as if they laid thousands and thousands of silver pounds upon the counter
before Zabulon, and he turned his back upon them, scorning them and preferring the synagogue.
Do you believe such a thing possible?... Very well, then. Love is
a fortune.

It is like beauty, riches, power; all who are born have a chance of acquiring one of these boons, but
very few actually attain to them. All live and die believing that they have known love, thinking
it a common thing, because they confuse it with animal satisfaction; but love is a privilege,
love is a lottery of fate, like wealth, like beauty, which only a
small minority enjoy.... And when love comes more than half way to
meet you, Luna, Lunita,-- when fate places happiness right in your
hands, you turn your back upon it and walk off!... Consider it well!

There is yet time! Today, as I walked along Royal Street I saw the ship notices. Tomorrow there's
a boat sailing for Port Said. Courage! Let us flee!... We'll wait there for a boat to take us to Australia."
Luna raised her head proudly. Farewell to her look of compassion! Farewell to the melancholy mood
in which she had listened to the youth!... Her eyes shone with a steely glance; her voice
was cruel and concise. "Goodnight!" And she turned her back upon him, beginning to walk as
if taking flight. Aguirre hastened after her, soon reaching her side. "And that's how you leave
me!" he exclaimed. "Like this, never to meet again... Can a love that was our very life end in
such a manner?..." The hymn had ceased in the evangelical temple; the Catholic bell was silent;
the military music had died out at the other end of the town. A painful silence enveloped the two lovers.
To Aguirre it seemed as if the world were deserted, as if the light had died forever, and that in
the midst of the chaos and the eternal darkness he and she were the only living creatures. "At
least give me your hand; let me feel it in mine for the last time.... Don't you care to?" She
seemed to hesitate, but finally extended her right hand. How lifeless
it was!

How icy! "Good-bye, Luis," she said curtly, turning her eyes away so as not to see him. She spoke
more, however. She felt that impulse of giving consolation which animates all women at times of great
grief. He must not despair. Life held sweet hopes in store for him. He was going to see the
world; he was still young.... Aguirre spoke from between clenched teeth, to himself, as if he
had gone mad. Young!

As if grief paid attention to ages! A week before he had been thirty years old; now he felt as
old as the world. Luna made an effort to release herself, trembling for herself, uncertain of
her will power. "Good-bye! Good-bye!" This time she really departed, and he allowed her to
leave, lacking the strength with which to follow her. Aguirre passed a sleepless night, seated at
the edge of his bed, gazing with stupid fixity at the designs upon the wall-paper. To think
that this could have happened! And he, no stronger than a mere child, had permitted her to leave
him forever!... Several times he was surprised to catch himself speaking
aloud.

"No. No. It cannot be.... It shall not be!" The light went out, of its own accord, and Aguirre
continued to soliloquize, without knowing what he was saying. "It shall not be! It shall not be!" he
murmured emphatically. But passing from rage to despair he asked himself what he could do to retain
her, to end his torture. Nothing! His misfortune was irreparable. They were going to resume
the course of their lives, each on a different road; they were going to embark on the following day,
each to an opposite pole of the earth, and each would carry away nothing of the other, save a memory;
and this memory, under the tooth of time, would become ever smaller, more fragile, more delicate.
And this was the end of such a great love! This was the finale of a passion that had been born to
fill an entire existence! And the earth did not tremble, and nobody was moved, and the world
ignored this great sorrow, even as it would ignore the misfortunes of a pair of ants. Ah! Misery!...
He would roam about the world carrying his recollections with him, and perhaps some day he would
come to forget them, for one can live only by forgetting; but when
his grief should dissolve with the years he would be left an empty
man, like a smiling automaton, incapable of any affections other than
material ones.

And thus he would go on living until he should grow old and die. And she, the beautiful creature,
who seemed to scatter music and incense at every step,-- the incomparable one, the only one,--
would likewise grow old, far from his side.

She would be one more Jewish wife, an excellent mother of a family,
grown stout from domestic life, flabby and shapeless from the productivity
of her race, with a brood of children about her, preoccupied at all
hours with the earnings of the family, a full moon, cumbrous, yellow,
without the slightest resemblance to the springtime star that had
illuminated the fleeting and best moments of his life. It did not exist, said the Attorney-General;
but the disposing mind existed: in other words, that she was then 'in love'--if, notwithstanding
Mr. Attorney's difficulty in defining it, I may use the term with the plaintiff. This may or
may not have been the case. There are some things which it is quite beyond the power of any
Judge or Jury to decide, and one of them certainly is--at what exact period of her acquaintance
with a future husband a young lady's regard turns into a warmer feeling? But supposing that
the Attorney-General is right, and that although she at that moment clearly had no prospect
of marrying him, since she had left England to seek her fortune at the Antipodes, the plaintiff
was looked upon by this lady with that kind of regard which is supposed to precede the matrimonial
contract, the circumstance, in my mind, tells rather in his favour than against him. For in
passing I may remark that this young lady has done a thing which is, in its way, little short
of heroic; the more so because it has a ludicrous side. She has submitted to an operation which
must not only have been painful, but which is and always will be a blot upon her beauty. I
am inclined to agree with the Attorney-General when he says that she did not make the sacrifice
without a motive, which may have sprung from a keen sense of justice, and of gratitude to the
plaintiff for his interference on her behalf, or from a warmer feeling. In either case there
is nothing discreditable about it--rather the reverse, in fact; and, taken by itself, there
is certainly nothing here to cause me to disbelieve the evidence of Miss Smithers.

"One question only seems to me to remain. Is there anything to show that the testator was not,
at the time of the execution of the will, of a sound and disposing mind? and is there anything
in his conduct or history to render the hypothesis of his having executed his will so improbable
that the Court should take the improbability into account? As to the first point, I can find
nothing. Miss Smithers expressly swore that it was not the case; nor was her statement shaken
by a very searching cross-examination. She admitted, indeed, that shortly before death he wandered
in his mind, and thought that he was surrounded by the shades of authors waiting to be revenged
upon him. But it is no uncommon thing for the mind thus to fail at the last, and it is not
extraordinary that this dying man should conjure before his brain the shapes of those with
some of whom he appears to have dealt harshly during his life. Nor do I consider it in any
way impossible that when he felt his end approaching he should have wished to reverse the sentence
of his anger, and restore his nephew, whose only offence had been a somewhat indiscreet use
of the language of truth, the inheritance to vast wealth of which he had deprived him. Such
a course strikes me as being a most natural and proper one, and perfectly in accordance with
the first principles of human nature. The whole tale is undoubtedly of a wild and romantic
order, and once again illustrates the saying that 'truth is stranger than fiction.' But I have
no choice but to accept the fact that the deceased did, by means of tattooing, carried out
by his order, legally execute his true last will in favour of his next-of-kin, Eustace H. Meeson,
upon the shoulders of Augusta Smithers, on or about the 22nd day of December, 1885. This being
so, I pronounce for the will propounded by the plaintiff, and there will be a grant as prayed."

"With costs, my Lord?" asked James, rising.

"No, I am not inclined to go that length. This litigation has arisen through the testator's
own act, and the estate must bear the burden."

"If your Lordship pleases," said James, and sat down.

"Mr. Short," said the Judge, clearing his throat, "I do not often speak in such a sense, but
I do feel called upon to compliment you upon the way in which you have, single-handed, conducted
this case--in some ways one of the strangest and most important that has ever come before me--having
for your opponents so formidable an array of learned gentlemen. The performance would have
been creditable to anybody of greater experience and longer years; as it is, I believe it to
be unprecedented."

James turned colour, bowed, and sat down, knowing that he was a made man, and that it would
be his own fault if his future career at the Bar was not now one of almost unexampled prosperity.

CHAPTER XXII.

ST. GEORGE'S, HANOVER-SQUARE.

The Court broke up in confusion, and Augusta, now that the strain was over, noticed with amusement
that the dark array of learned counsel who had been fighting with all their strength to win
the case of their clients did not seem to be particularly distressed at the reverse that they
had suffered, but chatted away gaily as they tied up their papers with scraps of red tape.
She did not, perhaps, quite realize that, having done their best and earned their little fees,
they did not feel called on to be heart-broken because the Court declined to take the view
they were paid to support. But it was a very different matter with Messrs. Addison and Roscoe,
who had just seen two millions of money slip from their avaricious grasp. They were rich men
already; but that fact did not gild the pill, for the possession of money does not detract
from the desire for the acquisition of more. Mr. Addison was purple with fury, and Mr. Roscoe
hid his saturnine face in his hands and groaned. Just then the Attorney-General rose, and seeing
James Short coming forward to speak to his clients, stopped him, and shook hands with him warmly.

"Let me congratulate you, my dear fellow," he said. "I never saw a case better done. It was
a perfect pleasure to me, and I am very glad that the Judge thought fit to compliment you--a
most unusual thing, by-the-way. I can only say that I hope that I may have the pleasure of
having you as my junior sometimes in the future. By-the-way, if you have no other engagement
I wish that you would call round at my chambers to-morrow about twelve."

Mr. Addison, who was close by, overheard this little speech, and a new light broke upon him.
With a bound he plunged between James and the Attorney-General.

"I see what it is now," he said, in a voice shaking with wrath, "I've been sold! I am a victim
to collusion. You've had five hundred of my money, confound you!" he shouted, almost shaking
his fist in the face of his learned and dignified adviser; "and now you are congratulating
this man!" and he pointed his finger at James. "You've been bribed to betray me, Sir. You are
a rascal! yes, a rascal!"

At this point the learned Attorney-General, forgetting his learning and the exceeding augustness
of his position, actually reverted to those first principles of human nature of which the Judge
had spoken, and doubled his fist. Indeed, had not Mr. News, utterly aghast at such a sight,
rushed up and dragged his infuriated client back, there is no knowing what scandalous thing
might not have happened.

But somehow he was got rid of, and everybody melted away, leaving the ushers to go round and
collect the blotting-paper and pens which strewed the empty court.

"And now, good people," said Lady Holmhurst, "I think that the best thing that we can do is
all to go home and rest before dinner. I ordered it at seven, and it is half-past five. I hope
that you will come, too, Mr. Short, and bring your brother with you; for I am sure that you,
both of you, deserve your dinner, if ever anybody did."

And so they all went, and a very jolly dinner they had, as well they might. At last, however,
it came to an end, and the legal twins departed, beaming like stars with happiness and champagne.
And then Lady Holmhurst departed also, and left Eustace and Augusta alone.

"Life is a queer thing," said Eustace; "here this morning I was a publisher's reader at £180
a year; and now, to-night, if this verdict holds, it seems that I am one of the wealthiest
men in England."

"Yes, dear," said Augusta, "and with all the world at your feet, for life is full of opportunities
to the rich. You have a great future before you, Eustace; I really am ashamed to marry so rich
a man."

"My darling," he said, putting his arm round her; "whatever I have I owe to you. Do you know
there is only one thing that I fear about all this money, if it really comes to us; and that
is that you will be so taken up with what pleasure-seeking people call social duties, and the
distribution of it, that you will give up your writing. So many women are like that. Whatever
ability they have seems to vanish utterly away upon their wedding-day. They say afterwards
that they have no time, but I often think it is because they do not choose to make time."

"Yes," answered Augusta; "but then that is because they do not really love their work, whatever
it may be. Those who really love their art as I love mine, with heart and soul and strength,
will not be so easily checked. Of course, distractions and cares come with marriage; but, on
the other hand, if one marries happily, there comes quiet of mind and cessation from that ceaseless
restlessness that is so fatal to good work. You need not fear, Eustace; if I can, I will show
the world that you have not married a dullard; and if I can't--why, my dear, it will be because
I am one."

"That comes very nicely from the author of 'Jemima's Vow,'" said Eustace, with sarcasm. "Really,
my dear, what between your fame as a writer and as the heroine of the shipwreck and of the
great will case, I think that I had better take a back seat at once, for I shall certainly
be known as the husband of the beautiful and gifted Mrs. Meeson"--

"Oh! no," answered Augusta; "don't be afraid, nobody would dream of speaking slightingly of
the owner of two millions of money."

"Well; never mind chaffing about the money," said Eustace; "we haven't got it yet, for one
thing. I have got something to ask you."

"I must be going to bed," said Augusta, firmly.

"No--nonsense!" said Eustace. "You are not going," and he caught her by the arm.

"Unhand me, Sir!" said Augusta, with majesty. "Now what do you want, you silly boy?"

"I want to know if you will marry me next week?"

"Next week? Good gracious! No," said Augusta. "Why I have not got my things, and, for the matter
of that, I am sure I don't know where the money is coming from to pay for them with."

"Things!" said Eustace, with fine contempt. "You managed to live on Kerguelen Land without
things, so I don't see why you can't get married without them--though, for the matter of that,
I will get anything you want in six hours. I never did hear such bosh as women talk about 'things.'
Listen, dear. For Heaven's sake let's get married and have a little quiet! I can assure you
that if you don't, your life won't be worth having after this. You will be hunted like a wild
thing, and interviewed, and painted, and worried to death; whereas, if you get married--well,
it will be better for us in a quiet way, you know."

"Well, there is something in that," said Augusta. "But supposing that there should be an appeal,
and the decision should be reversed, what would happen then?"

"Well, then we should have to work for our living--that's all. Aguirre, who was surprised at the
poverty of the establishment, which resembled a kitchen, was even more surprised at the facility
with which money rolled across the narrow counter.

The packets of silver pieces were quickly opened, passing rapidly
through the shaggy, expert hands of Zabulon; the pounds fairly sang,
as they struck the wood, with the merry ring of gold; the bank-notes,
folded like unstitched folios, flashed for a moment before concealing
the colors of their nationality in the safe: the simple, monotonous
white of the English paper, the soft blue of the Bank of France, the
green and red mixture of the Spanish Bank.

All the Jews of Gibraltar flocked hither, with that same commercial solidarity which leads
them to patronize only establishments owned by members of their race;
Zabulon, all by himself, without the aid of clerks, and without allowing
his father (the venerable fetich of the family's fortune) to leave
his seat, directed this dance of money, conducting it from the hands
of the public to the depths of the iron safe, or fetching it forth
to spread it, with a certain sadness, upon the counter.

The ridiculous little room seemed to grow in size and acquire beauty at the sound of the sonorous
names that issued from the lips of the banker and his customers.
London! Paris!

Vienna!... The house of Aboab had branches everywhere. Its name and its influence extended
not only to the famous world centers, but even to the humblest corners, wherever one of their
race existed.

       Rabat, Casablanca, Larache, Tafilete, Fez, were African towns into
which the great banks of Europe could penetrate only with the aid
of these auxiliaries, bearing an almost famous name yet living very
poorly.

Zabulon, as he changed Aguirre's money, greeted him as if he were a friend. In that city every
one knew every body else within twenty-four hours.

Old Aboab pulled himself together in his chair, peering out of his weak eyes with a certain surprise
at not being able to recognize this customer among his habitual visitors.

"It's the consul, father," said Zabulon, without raising his glance
from the money that he was counting, guessing the reason for the movement
of the old man behind him.

"The Spanish consul who stops at the hotel opposite our house."

The patriarch seemed to be impressed and raised his hand to his hat
with humble courtesy.

"Ah! The consul! The worthy consul!" he exclaimed, emphasizing the title as a token of his great respect
for all the powers of the earth. "Highly honored by your visit, worthy
consul."

And believing that he owed his visitor renewed expressions of flattery, he added with tearful sighs,
imparting to his words a telegraphic conciseness, "Ah, Spain!

Beautiful land, excellent country, nation of gentlemen!... My forefathers came from there,
from a place called Espinosa de los Monteros."

His voice quivered, pained by recollections, and afterwards, as if he had in memory advanced
to recent times, he added, "Ah!

Castelar!... Castelar, a friend of the Jews, and he defended them. Of the judeos, as they say
there!"

His flood of tears, ill restrained up to that moment, could no longer be held back, and at this
grateful recollection it gushed from his eyes, inundating his beard.

"Spain! Beautiful country!" sighed the old man, deeply moved.

And he recalled everything that in the past of his race and his family had united his people with
that country. An Aboab had been chief treasurer of the King of Castile; another had been a wonderful
physician, enjoying the intimacy of bishops and cardinals. The Jews of Portugal and of Spain
had been great personages,-- the aristocracy of the race. Scattered now over Morocco and Turkey,
they shunned all intercourse with the coarse, wretched Israelite population of Russia and Germany.
They still recited certain prayers, in the synagogue, in old Castilian, and the Jews of London repeated
them by heart without knowing either their origin or their meaning, as if they were prayers in a
language of sacred mystery.

He himself, when he prayed at the synagogue for the King of England, imploring for him an abundance
of health and prosperity even as Jews the world over did for the
ruler of whatever country they happened to inhabit, added mentally
an entreaty to the Lord for the good fortune of beautiful Spain.

       

Zabulon, despite his respect for his father, interrupted him brusquely, as if he were an imprudent
child. In his eyes there glowed the harsh expression of the impassioned
zealot.

"Father, remember what they did to us. How they cast us out... how they robbed us. Remember
our brothers who were burned alive."

"That's true, that's true," groaned the patriarch, shedding new tears into a broad handkerchief
with which he wiped his eyes.

"It's true.... But in that beautiful country there still remains
something that is ours.

The bones of our ancestors."

When Aguirre left, the old man showered him with tokens of extreme
courtesy.

He and his son were at the consul's service. And the consul returned almost every morning to
chat with the patriarch, while Zabulon attended to the customers
and counted money.

Samuel Aboab spoke of Spain with tearful delight, as of a marvelous country whose entrance was guarded
by terrible monsters with fiery swords. Did they still recall the
judeos there?

And despite Aguirre's assurances, he refused to believe that they
were no longer called thus in Spain.

It grieved the old man to die before beholding Espinosa de los Monteros; a beautiful city, without
a doubt. Perhaps they still preserved there the memory of the illustrious
Aboabs.

The Spaniard smilingly urged him to undertake the journey.

Why did he not go there?... "Go!

Go to Spain!..." The old man huddled together like a timorous snail before the idea of this journey.
"There are still laws against the poor judeos.

The decree of the Catholic Kings. Let them first repeal it!... Let them first call us back!" Aguirre
laughed at his listener's fears. Bah!

The Catholic Kings! Much they counted for now!... Who remembered those good gentlemen? But the
old man persisted in his fears.

He had suffered much. The terror of the expulsion was still in his bones and in his blood, after
four centuries.

In summer, when the heat forced them to abandon the torrid rock,
and the Aboab family hired a little cottage on the seashore, in Spanish
territory just beyond La Línea, the patriarch dwelt in constant restlessness,
as if he divined mysterious perils in the very soil upon which he
trod.

Who could tell what might happen during the night?

Who could assure him that he would not awake in chains, ready to be led like a beast to a
port?

This is what had happened to his Spanish ancestors, who had been forced to take refuge in
Morocco, whence a branch of the family had moved to Gibraltar when
the English took possession of the place.

Aguirre poked mild fun at the childish fears of the aged fellow, whereupon Zabulon intervened with
his darkly energetic authority.

"My father knows what he is talking about. We will never go; we can't go. In Spain the old
customs always return; the old is converted into the new. There is no security; woman has too much
power and interferes in matters that she does not understand."

Woman! Zabulon spoke scornfully of the sex. They should be treated as the Jews treated them. The
Jews taught them nothing more than the amount of religion necessary
to follow the rites.

The presence of women in the synagogue was in many instances not obligatory. Even when they
came, they were confined to the top of a gallery, like spectators of the lowest rank. No. Religion
was man's business, and the countries in which woman has a part in
it cannot offer security.

Then the unsympathetic Israelite spoke enthusiastically of the "greatest man in the world,"
Baron Rothschild, lord over kings and governments-- taking care never to omit the title of baron
every time he pronounced the name-- and he finally named all the great Jewish centers, which
were ever increasing in size and population.

"We are everywhere," he asserted, blinking maliciously. "Now we are spreading over America. Governments
change, peoples spread over the face of the earth, but we are ever the same. Not without reason
do we await the Messiah. He will come, some day."

On one of his morning visits to the ill appointed bank Aguirre was introduced to Zabulon's two daughters,-- Sol
and Estrella,-- and to his wife, Thamar.

On another morning Aguirre experienced a tremor of emotion upon hearing behind him the rustle of
silks and noticing that the light from the entrance was obscured by the figure of a person whose
identity his nerves had divined. It was Luna, who had come, with all the interest that Hebrew women feel
for their domestic affairs, to deliver an order to her uncle. The old man grasped her hands across the
counter, caressing them tremblingly.

"This is my granddaughter, sir consul, my granddaughter Luna. Her
father is dead, and my daughter too.

She comes from Morocco. No one loves the poor girl as much as her
grandfather does."

And the patriarch burst into tears, moved by his own words.

Aguirre left the shop with triumphant joy. They had spoken to each other; now they were acquainted.
The moment he met her upon the street he would cling to her, taking advantage of some blessed
customs that seemed to have been made for lovers.

II NEITHER could tell how, after several ordinary meetings, their
friendly confidence grew, or which had been the first word to reveal
the mystery of their thoughts.

They saw each other mornings when Aguirre would go to his window. The Feast of Tabernacles
had come to an end, and the Aboabs had taken down the religious structure,
but Luna continued to go to the roof under various pretexts, so that
she might exchange a glance, a smile, a gesture of greeting with the
Spaniard.

They did not converse from these heights through fear of the neighbors, but afterwards they met
in the street, and Luis, after a respectful salute, would join the young
lady, and they would walk along as companions, like other couples they
met on their way. All were known to one another in that town. Only by
this knowledge could married couples be distinguished from simple
friends.

Luna visited various shops on errands for the Aboabs, like a good Jewess who is interested
in all the family affairs. At other times she wandered aimlessly through Royal Street, or walked
in the direction of the Alameda, explaining the landmarks of the city
to Aguirre at her side.

In the midst of these walks she would stop at the brokers'shop to greet the patriarch, who
smiled childishly as he contemplated the youthful and beautiful couple.

"Señor consul, señor consul," said Samuel one day, "I brought from
my house this morning the family papers, for you to read.

Not all of them. There are too many altogether! We Aboabs are very old;
I wish to prove to the consul that we are judeos of Spain, and that we
still remember the beautiful land."

And from underneath the counter he drew forth divers rolls of parchment covered with Hebrew characters.
They were matrimonial documents, acts of union of the Aboabs with
certain families of the Israelite community.

At the head of all these documents figured on one side the coat of arms of England and on the
other that of Spain, in bright colors and gold borders.

"We are English," declared the patriarch. "May the Lord preserve our king and send him much happiness;
but we are Spaniards historically: Castilians, that is... Castilians."

He selected from the parchments one that was cleaner and fresher than the others, and bent over it his white,
wavy beard and his tearful eyes. "This is the wedding contract of
Benamor with my poor daughter: Luna's parents.

You can't understand it, for it's in Hebrew characters, but the language is Castilian, pure
Castilian, as it was spoken by our ancestors."

And slowly, in an infantile voice, as if he relished the obsolete
forms of the words, he read the terms of the contract that united
the parties "in the custom of Old Castile."

Then he enumerated the conditions of the marriage, the penalties either of the contracting parties
might incur if the union were dissolved through his or her fault.

"'Such party will pay,'" mumbled the patriarch, "'will pay... so many silver ounces.'Are there
still silver ounces in Castile, señor consul?"... Luna, in her conversations
with Aguirre, demonstrated an interest as keen as that of her old
grandfather in the beautiful land, the far-off, remote, mysterious
land,-- in spite of the fact that its boundary was situated but a
few steps away, at the very gates of Gibraltar.

All she knew of it was a little fisherman's hamlet, beyond La Línea, whither she had gone with her family
on their summer vacations. "Cadiz! Seville! How enchanting they must be!... I can picture them
to myself: I have often beheld them in my dreams, and I really believe
that if I ever saw them they wouldn't surprise me in the least....
Seville!

Tell me, Don Luis, is it true that sweethearts converse there through
a grating? And is it certain that the maidens are serenaded with
a guitar, and the young men throw their capes before them as a carpet
over which to pass?

And isn't it false that men slay one another for them?... How charming! Don't deny all this.
It's all so beautiful!..." Then she would summon to memory all her
recollections of that land of miracles, of that country of legends,
in which her forebears had dwelt.

When she was a child her grandmother, Samuel Aboab's wife, would lull
her to sleep reciting to her in a mysterious voice the prodigious
events that always had Castile as their background and always began
the same: "Once upon a time there was a king of Toledo who fell in
love with a beautiful and charming Jewess named Rachel...."

"Toledo!"...
As she uttered this name Luna rolled her eyes as in the vagueness of
a dream. The Spanish capital of Israel! The second Jerusalem! Her
noble ancestors, the treasurer of the king and the miraculous physician,
had dwelt there! "You must have seen Toledo, Don Luis.

You surely have been there. How I envy you!... Very beautiful, isn't it? Vast! Enormous!... Like London?...
Like Paris?

Of course not.... But certainly far larger than Madrid." And carried away by the enthusiasm of her
illusions she forgot all discretion, questioning Luis about his past.
Indubitably he was of the nobility: his very bearing revealed that.

From the very first day she had seen him, upon learning his name and his nationality, she had guessed
that he was of high origin. A hidalgo such as she had imagined every man from Spain to be, with
something Semitic in his face and in his eyes, but more proud, with an air of hauteur that was
incapable of supporting humiliations and servility.

Perhaps he had a uniform for festive occasions, a suit of bright colors, braided with gold... and
a sword, a sword! Her eyes shone with admiration in the presence of this hidalgo from the
land of knights who was dressed as plainly as a shopkeeper of Gibraltar, yet who could transform
himself into a glorious insect of brilliant hues, armed with a mortal sting. And Aguirre did not
disturb her illusions, answering affirmatively, with all the simplicity
of a hero.

Yes; he had a golden costume, that of the consul. He possessed a sword, which went with his uniform, and
which had never been unsheathed. One sunny morning the pair, quite unconsciously, took the path
to the Alameda.

She made anxious inquiries about Aguirre's past, with indiscreet curiosity, as always happens between
persons who feel themselves attracted to each other by a budding
affection.

Where had he been born? How had he spent his childhood?

Had
he loved many women?... They passed beneath the arches of an old gate that dated back to the time of
the Spanish possession, and which still preserved the eagles and the shields of the Austrian
dynasty. In the old moat, now converted into a garden, there was a group of tombs,-- those of the English
sailors who had died at Trafalgar. They walked along an avenue in which the trees alternated
with heaps of old bombs and cone-shaped projectiles, reddened by rust. Further on, the large cannon
craned their necks toward the gray cruisers of the military harbor and the extensive bay, over
whose blue plain, tremulous with gold, glided the white dots of some
sailing vessels.

On the broad esplanade of the Alameda, at the foot of the mountain covered with pines and cottages,
were groups of youths running and kicking a restless ball around. At that hour, as at every hour of the
day, the huge ball of the English national game sped through the air over paths, fields and garrison
yards. A concert of shouts and kicks, civil as well as military, rose into the air, to the glory of
strong and hygienic England.

They mounted a long stairway, afterwards seeking rest in a shady
little square, near the monument to a British hero, the defender
of Gibraltar, surrounded by mortars and cannon.

Luna, gazing across the blue sea that could be viewed through the
colonnade of trees, at last spoke of her own past. Her childhood had been
sad.

Born in Rabat, where the Jew Benamor was engaged in the exportation of Moroccan cloths,
her life had flowed on monotonously, without any emotion other than
that of fear. The Europeans of this African port were common folk,
who had come thither to make their fortune. The Moors hated the Jews.
The rich Hebrew families had to hold themselves apart, nourishing
themselves socially upon their own substance, ever on the defensive in
a country that lacked laws. The young Jewish maidens were given an excellent
education, which they acquired with the facility of their race in
adopting all progress. They astonished newcomers to Rabat with their
hats and their clothes, similar to those of Paris and London; they
played the piano; they spoke various languages, and yet, on certain
nights of sleeplessness and terror, their parents dressed them in
foul tatters and disguised them, staining their faces and their hands
with moist ashes and lampblack, so that they might not appear to be
Jewish daughters and should rather resemble slaves.

There were nights in which
an uprising of the Moors was feared, an invasion of the near-by Kabyles,
excited in their fanaticism by the inroads of European culture. The
Moroccans burned the houses of the Jews, plundered their treasures, fell
like wild beasts upon the white women of the infidels, decapitating
them with hellish sadism after subjecting them to atrocious outrages.
Ah!

 It's shameful--shameful!"

"If you choose to resign, you can," said Eustace, sharply; "but I advise you to take time to
think it over. Gentlemen," went on Eustace, "I daresay that this seems a great change to you,
but I may as well say at once that I am no wild philanthropist. I expect to make it pay, and
pay well. To begin with, I shall never undertake any work that I do not think will pay--that
is, without an adequate guarantee, or in the capacity of a simple agent; and my own ten per
cent will be the first charge on the profits; then the author's ten. Of course, if I speculate
in a book, and buy it out and out, subject to the risks, the case will be different. But with
a net ten per cent certain, I am, like people in any other line of business, quite prepared
to be satisfied; and, upon those terms, I expect to become the publisher of all the best writers
in England, and I also expect that any good writer will in future be able to make a handsome
income out of his work. Further, it strikes me that you will most of you find yourselves better
off at the end of the year than you do at present" (Cheers). "One or two more matters I must
touch on. First and foremost the Hutches, which I consider a scandal to a great institution
like this, will be abolished"--(Shouts of joy from the tame authors)--"and a handsome row of
brick chambers erected in their place, and, further, their occupants will in future receive
a very permanent addition to their salaries "--(renewed and delirious cheering). "Lastly, I
will do away with this system--this horrid system--of calling men by numbers, as though they
were convicts instead of free Englishmen. Henceforth everybody in this establishment will be
known by his own name." The crank was centuries old at this time, and had been applied to
pumping earlier than the time mentioned by Agricola, although perhaps
not in mining.

A drawing dated 1405 shows an Archimedian screw turned by a crank (Feldhaus, op. cit., footnote
6, p. 834). The Mittelalterliche Hausbuch (ed. H. T. Bossert and W. F. Storck, Leipzig, 1912,
Tafel 32), a German description of technology that appeared in 1480, shows an arrangement
very like that described by Agricola, although not in mining service. And then amidst a burst of prolonged and rapturous
cheering, Eustace and his wife bowed, and were escorted out to the carriage that was waiting
to drive them to Pompadour Hall.

In half-an-hour's time they were re-entering the palatial gates from which, less than a year
before, Eustace had been driven forth to seek his fortune. Where floats your babe's-hand now,
Dame Lovepip?

"There he lolled, immortal Bottom, propped on a bed of asphodel and
moly that seemed to curd the moonshine; and at his side, Titania slim
and scarlet, and shimmering like a bride-cake.

The sky was dark above the tapering trees, but here in the secret woods light seemed to cling
in flake and scarf.

And it so chanced as our two noses leaned forward into his retreat
that Bottom's head lolled back upon its pillow, and his bright, simple
eyes stared deep into our own."

Save me, ye shapes of nought, "he bellowed," no more, no more, for love's sake. I begin to see
what men call red Beelzebub, and that's an end to all true fellowship. Whiffle your tufted
bee's wing, Signior Cobweb, I beseech you-- a little fiery devil with
four eyes floats in my brain, and flame's a frisky bedfellow.

Avaunt! avaunt ye! Would now my true friend Bottom the weaver were at my side. His was a courage
to make princes great. Prithee, Queen Tittany, no more such cozening
possets!

"I drew Rosinante back into the leaves."

Droop now thy honeyed lids, my dearest love! "I heard a clear voice answer." There's nought can
harm thee in these silvered woods: no bird that pipes but love incites his throat, and never
a dewdrop wells but whispers peace!

"" Ay, ay,'tis very well, you have a gift, you have a gift, Tittany's for twisting words to
sugarsticks. But la, there, what wots your trickling whey of that coal-piffling Prince of
Flies! I'm Bottom the weaver, I am. He knows not his mother's ring-finger that knows not Nick Bottom.
Back, back, ye jigging dreams!'Tis Puckling nods.

Ha'done, ha'done-- there's no sweet sanity in an asshead more if I quaff their elvish... Out now...
Ha'done, I say!

"Then indeed he slumbered truly, this engarlanded weaver, his lids
concealing all bright speculation, his jowl of vanity (foe of the
Philistine) at peace: and I might gaze unperceived. The moon filled
his mossy cubicle with her untrembling beams, streamed upon blossoms
sweet and heavy as Absalom's hair, while tiny plumes wafted into the
night the scent of thyme and meadow-sweet.

I know not how long they
would have kept me prisoner with their illusive music.
Confound that fellow, Short, why couldn't he come and dine? I wonder if there is any place
where one could go to smoke a pipe, or rather a cigar--I suppose those fellows would despise
me if I smoked a pipe? There was no smoking allowed here in my uncle's time, so I used to smoke
in the house-keeper's room; but I can't do that now"--

"Why don't you smoke here?--the room is so big it would not smell," said Augusta.

"Oh, hang it all, no," said Eustace; "think of the velvet curtains! I can't sit and smoke by
myself in a room fifty feet by thirty; I should get the blues. No, I shall come upstairs, too,
and smoke there"--

And he did. 

"Stranger," she said, drawing her finger softly along the cold stone
of the bench, "there yet remain a few bright hours to morning.

Who knows, seeing that felicity is with the bold, did I cast off
into the sea-- who knows whereto I'd come!
It lit upon the ewers, made of solid silver, on the fine lace hangings of the bed, and the
priceless inlaid furniture, and played round the faces of the cupids on the frescoed ceiling. His
report on the trip, A brief account of some travels in diverse parts of Europe (2nd ed., London,
1685, p. 170), says little about machinery, but does not mention
flooding as a serious problem.

Of an 84-fathom mine called Auff der Halsbrucker, near Freiberg,
he says "they are not so much troubled with water, and have very good
engines to draw water out."

Yet the chain of dippers and rag and chain pump were evidently fallen
into disuse, as they do not appear among the mining machines reported
by Fritsche and Wagenbreth as having been described by Lohneyss (1617)
or Rössler (1700); and Fritsche and Wagenbreth declare that German
hydraulic machinery was able to compete with the steam engine in mine
dewatering for some time into the 19th century (op. cit., footnote
14, pp. 111, 112). I think
that starving authors who have published with Meeson's ought to have the first right of election." 

"There is honeycomb here, and the fruit is plenteous. Yes," she said, "and all travellers are violent
men-- catch and kill meat-- that I know, however doleful.'Tis but
a little sigh from day to day in these cool gardens; and rest is welcome
when the heart pines not. "I've just had a dream!"

"Well!" she said sharply, for she was busy with her scheme; "what is it?"

"I dreamt that James Short was a Q.C., and making twenty thousand a year, and that he had married
Lady Holmhurst." 

We often see this rule violated in personal, household, and architectural
decoration-- windows so overloaded with projecting cornices and lattice
work as to almost exclude light and air; knife handles carved so elaborately
that it is impossible to grasp them firmly; styles of dress in form
or color that impede the motions of the wearer, and make the clothes,
rather than the personality of the wearer, the most noticeable feature.

From this principle there is but a step to another: All ornament should
be modest and moderate.

And he went to sleep again; while, disdaining reply, Augusta worked on.

THE END.

