Neither Mr. Dalzell nor Jane were sorry when the dance was ended and they were relieved of
each other's company; and he returned to Miss Wilson, while she joined Elsie in the library,
where she was finishing her critical reading of Miss Rennie's album, with a better coadjutor
than the Australian settler, in the person of her cousin. She was rather afraid of him at first,
but she found that in general their opinions were the same as to merits and demerits, and she
could not help owning that it would have been well to have taken him into her counsels before
she tried the public.

"I have been telling Francis," said Jane, "that I am making up my mind to go to Mrs. Dunn's."

"Then I will go with you, Jane; we must go together; you are not to have all the drudgery."

"I say I am only making up my mind; it is not made up yet. I will wait another week before
I decide. You are to be in town for a few days, Francis, and you will see us every day before
we go. I wish to have a little amusement before I settle; so, Elsie, let us arrange. The theatre
to-morrow night, the exhibition on Thursday morning, a concert on Thursday evening, and on
Friday an excursion to Roslin; Saturday I am not sure about, but we will see when the time comes."

Elsie stared at her sister; it was so unlike Jane to be pining for amusement. "I do not care
for going out, I am so unfit for it. I would rather stay at home till the time comes to go
to Mrs Dunn's."

"No, we will not let you stay and mope at home. If it has somewhat unsettled my strong nerves
to be living as we have done, so that I feel I must have a change, what will be its effect
on you to stay at Peggy's without me?"

"Your sister would rather not go out with me," said Francis.

"No; I have been unjust and uncharitable to you, but I hope I will not be so again. Forgive
me for the past, and I will promise good behaviour for the future."

"If you are not too tired in the morning, would not a walk be pleasant?" said Francis. "I want
to show you what strikes me as the finest view of Edinburgh. I do not expect Jane to appreciate
it; but from your remarks on these verses, I am sure you have an eye for nature, and a soul
for it."

Elsie was pleased, and felt more kindly to her cousin than she had ever done before. There
are times when a little praise, particularly if it is felt to be deserved, does a sad heart
incalculable good. She agreed to the walk with eagerness, and looked forward to it with hope.

Chapter XIII.

Peggy's Visitors, And Francis' Resolution

The girls were somewhat later in rising on the morning after the party than usual, and when
they got up, they found that Peggy was out on one of those errands that Jane and Elsie had
been accustomed to do for her. She had got into very good custom, from her real skill and punctuality,
even in the short time that she had tried her luck in Edinburgh; and this week she had had
more work than she could manage. On these occasions she used to get the assistance of a very
poor woman who lived at a considerable distance, who had once been a neighbour of her sister
Bessie's, and had been kind to Willie when he was in his last illness. Jane, sometimes with
and sometimes without Elsie, had always gone to tell this woman about the work, but on this
occasion Peggy had to take the long walk herself--not that she grudged it--for to put half-a-crown
in poor Lizzie Marr's pocket was worth a good deal of trouble and fatigue.

She had returned about twelve o'clock, when the girls were getting ready to join their cousin
in their promised walk, and just as she got to the top of the stairs, a man's foot was heard
at the bottom. They were going for their bonnets, when a sharp tap was heard at the door, and
Peggy opened it, and they beheld, not Francis, but Mr. Brandon.

"Well, Peggy," said he, "how are you? I thought I could not be mistaken in those elbows. I
have followed you from Prince's Street all this long way, but you would never turn round, and
I could not outstrip you, for you know we bushmen are no great walkers, and you always were
a wonderful 'Walker' in every sense of the word. And how are you again, Peggy?"

Peggy shook hands with her old master, and gazed at him with great surprise.

"Surely, these are not the bairns you used to speak of?" said Mr. Brandon, looking at the Misses
Melville with astonishment quite equal to hers.

"No; the bairns are all at the school--all but Tam--and he's at his trade, but they will be
here for their dinners directly. These are two young ladies that have taken a room off me.
They are no so well off as they should be, more's the pity," said Peggy, lowering her voice.

"I met them last night at a party. How do you do, Miss Melville?" said he, shaking hands with
Elsie first, and then with Jane.

"But what brought you here on this day?" said Peggy.

"Just your elbows, Peggy. I was coming to see you at any rate, but I did not think you were
here. You must have shifted your quarters. Here is your address," said Mr. Brandon, taking
out his pocket-book--"'Peggy Walker, at Mr. Thomas Lowrie's, Swinton, ----shire.' I was going
to see you to-morrow, but you have saved me a journey to no purpose."

"I brought the bairns into the town for better schooling, and on account of Tam; and grandfather
finds it agrees brawly with him, too. Grandfather," said Peggy, raising her voice, "this is
Master Brandon that you have heard me speak about whiles--the first master I had in Australia."

Grandfather expressed his sense of the politeness of Mr. Brandon in coming all that way to
see Peggy. Not but what she was a good lass, and worth going a long journey to have a crack with.

"Well, Peggy," said Mr. Brandon, taking a seat near the fire, "and how do you like this cold
country after so many years in a hot one?"

"The winters are not so bad, but the springs are worse to stand. But if a body's moving and
stirring about they can aye keep heat in them."

"If moving and stirring can keep you warm you will never be cold. But, Peggy, you will want
to hear the news."

"Indeed do I," said Peggy; "the diggings are going on as brisk as ever, I suppose?"

"Just as brisk, and sheep as dear, and wool steady; so, you see, I've taken a holiday."

"But you're going back again?"

"I must go back, for I have not made my fortune yet. But, by-the-by, it is a great pity that
you left Melbourne when you did. You would have been a wealthy woman if you had stayed. There's
Powell--was he married before you went?"

"Ay, he was. I heard word of it in Melbourne."

"Well, he's as flourishing as possible; he will soon be richer than me. On his own account
now. Bought a flock and run, for an old song; cured the sheep; and is now on the highway to
wealth. Ah! Peggy, why were you not Mrs Powell?"

"It was not to be," said Peggy, calmly; "but has he any bairns?"

"Two, Peggy; and he is very proud of them."

"Ay, ay; a man has need to be proud and pleased with his own. And the wife?"

"Oh, she's a nice enough person. Getting a little uppish now; but not the manager you are,"
said Mr. Brandon. "More given to dress and show, and that sort of thing. But I have a message
for you from Mr. Talbot, the lawyer, you know, though I dare say he has written to you on the
same subject."

"My man of business," said Peggy, with a little pride. "I have not heard from him for a long time."

"He is very sorry indeed, that you let the tenant have a right of purchase to your shop."

"Oh, it is not of much consequence--he never was a saving body; I don't think he will ever
raise the 250 pounds."

"Will he not?--when the place is worth 2,500 pounds now; if he borrows the money, he will carry
out the purchase, and thus you lose the chance of making a little fortune. He, of course, will
keep it on till the end of the lease, at the low rent he has it at, and then take it up for
the price specified. You cannot think how vexed I felt to hear you had let this property slip
through your fingers."

"It is a pity," said Peggy. "It would really have been a providing for the bairns; but they
must just provide for themselves. I am, at least, putting them in the way of doing it. The
rent comes in regular enough, and is a help; and the 250 pounds will come in some time, and
set us up in some way of doing."

"250 pounds is not the sum it used to be," said Mr. Brandon; "but, in your hands, I have no
doubt it will be turned to good account."

"Here come the bairns now," said Peggy, as the quick, noisy steps of the heavily-shod children
were heard clattering up the stairs.

"I will now see what you have made so many sacrifices for. Name them as they come in."

"Tom, Jamie, Nancy, Jessie, Willie."

"A fine lot of youngsters, upon my word, and sure to make good colonists." And, as he said
this, Mr. Brandon saw a tear stand in the eye of the devoted aunt at his praises of her orphan
charge.

"God be praised, they have their health; and on the whole they are good bairns, though a thought
noisy whiles," said she.

"There's a gentleman at the stairfoot," said Tom. "He says he has come for you and your sister,
Miss Melville, and as it was our dinner-time, he would not come up."

"Bid him walk upstairs, for the dinner's no ready. Mr. Brandon was aye rather an off-put to
work, and ye'll no get your dinner for a good quarter of an hour yet."

"We are quite ready," said Jane; "We will go at once. It is our cousin, who was to call for us."

"We may go out to play then for a bit?" said Willie.

"If ye'll no go far, and be sure to be in time for the school."

Francis came up, to be surprised at the sight of Mr. Brandon, and to receive a hurried explanation
of his presence at Peggy Walker's, and then they went for a walk. By daylight he was struck
more with the change that had shown itself in both of his cousins, and with the poor home they
had to live in. Jane's proposal on the previous night to go to Mrs. Dunn's had distressed him
more than any other of her projects, and yet he could do nothing to prevent it, unless by making
the sacrifice which my young lady readers think he should have made long ago, and given up
the estate to marry his cousin. "All for love, and the world well lost," is a fascinating course
of procedure in books and on the stage, but in real life there are a good many things to be
considered. It was only lately that Francis had discovered how very dear Jane was to him. If
such a woman had come across his path when he was in the bank with his 250 pounds a-year, with
any reasonable chance of obtaining her, he would have exerted every effort and made every sacrifice
to gain such a companion for life. He would have given up all his more expensive bachelor habits--his
book-buying, and his public amusements, and thought domestic happiness cheaply purchased by
such privations. And if Jane could have shared his brighter fortune, he would have offered
his hand and heart long before. But now, even supposing that he had contracted no expensive
habits, and he found that he had--that he liked the handsome fortune, and the luxuries annexed
to it--it was not his own personal gratification that he was required to give up, but the duties,
and the opportunities for usefulness that Jane so highly prized for him. He could not even
expect to take as good a position in the world as he had quitted. His place at the Bank of
Scotland was filled up, and the quixotic step he thought of taking was not likely to recommend
him to business people. And he must prepare not only for providing for a wife and family, but
for Elsie, too; and until this day Elsie had shrunk from him, and he had rather despised her;
but during their walk he saw the affectionate and sincere nature of Jane's sister. He thought
that he could not only offer her a home, but that he had some prospect of making it a happy
one, which is by far the most important thing in such matters, and he gradually brought himself
to believe that it was right he should make the sacrifice. Other opportunities of usefulness
might open themselves in some other sphere; he would give up Cross Hall to the benevolent societies
if Jane would only consent to be his wife. The cousinship he thought no objection; they were
both very healthy in body and in mind, and as unlike each other in temperament and constitution
as if they were not related. Neither Jane nor Elsie was likely to keep her health at a sedentary
employment; it was the daily long walk that had kept them so well as they were. It was not
right to undervalue private happiness, after all, for any public object whatever. Here was
the best and dearest woman in the world suffering daily, both in herself and through her sister,
and he could make her happy; he knew that he could do that. If she refused, however, it would
interfere with the warm friendship that he knew to be her greatest comfort and his own most
precious possession; but she could not, she would not refuse him. He saw the kind look of her
eyes; and felt convinced that though Jane believed it was only friendship, the knowledge that
she was all the world to him would change it into love. And then to begin life afresh; no longer
solitary; no longer unloved; could he not conquer difficulties even greater than he had ever
to contend with? He did not pay proper attention at the theatre that night. Jane and her sister
were delighted with the performance, and forgot their daily life in the mimic world before
them; but he was building such castles in the air all the time that he was not able to criticise
the play or the acting, but left that to Elsie, who certainly did it very well.

Chapter XIV.

Good News For Francis

When the children went out, and the young ladies had gone with their cousin, Mr. Brandon took
the opportunity of asking how it happened that the Misses Melville were staying with her. She
explained their position in a more matter-of-fact way than Miss Rennie had done on the preceding
night, and then dilated on their virtues, particularly on Jane's.

"So clever, and so sensible, and so willing! There's nothing she does not understand, and yet,
poor thing, she says she must go to the dressmaking, for with all her by-ordinary talents and
her by-ordinary education, there is not another hand's turn she can get to do. I'm sure the
pains she takes with the bairns at night, I just marvel at it. There's Tam, she can make him
do anything she likes. It is a grand thing for a laddie when he is just growing to be a man
to have such a woman as Miss Melville to look up to--it makes him have a respect for women."

"He need look no higher than you, Peggy," said Mr. Brandon.

"Ah! but you see I am not quick at the book learning. I'll no complain of Tam for want of respect
to myself, for he is a good lad, take him altogether; but then, Miss Jean, she helps him with
his problems and his squares, and runs up whole columns of figures like a lang-legged spider,
and tells him why things should be so and so, and seems as keen to learn all about the engineering
as himself; and she helps Jamie with the Latin, that he craikit on so lang to let him learn,
though for my part I see little good it will do him, and him only to follow the joinering and
cabinet-making trade; and Tam, he will no be behind, and he must needs learn it too; and as
for her writing, ye could read it at the other end of the room. And in her uncle's house there
was such order and such government under her eye as there was not to be seen in another gentleman's
house in the country. And yet, poor lassie, she says there's nothing but the dressmaking for
her. And Miss Elsie, too, writing day and night, and cannot get a bode for her bit poems and
verses, till now she is like to greet her een out over every letter she gets from London about
them. I can see Miss Jean has been egging up Mr. Hogarth, as they call him--I'm no wishing
him any ill, but I wish the auld laird had made a fairer disposition of his possessions--well,
Miss Jean has been stirring up this Mr. Francis to take them out for the sake of Elsie, for
she is just fading away."

"I like her the best of the two, and she is certainly far the prettiest. The eldest one is
a little too clever for me, and too much disposed to preach, even in a ball-room."

"Well, I dare say she saw you had had rather little preaching in the bush, and I am sure you
were none the worse of all said to you. But it makes us the more vexed at losing the real value
of my bit property, for if I had had the twenty-five hundred pounds you speak about we could
have begun business in Melbourne together. She can keep books, and Miss Elsie has a clever
hand at the millinery;--we could have got on famously. I must let you see the bairns' writingbooks,
and the letters she learns them to write, and their counting-books, too."

Mr. Brandon looked and admired quite to Peggy's satisfaction; and then he spoke to the old
man in a kindly way, calling him Mr. Lowrie, and saying he had often heard Peggy speak of him
at Barragong. How much pleasure little courtesies like this give to poverty and old age! The
old man's face brightened when he heard that he was known at such a distance by such a gentleman
as this, and he answered Mr. Brandon's inquiries as to his health and his hearing with eager
garrulity.

"Well," said Peggy, "I am no poorer than I was if I had not known about the bit shop being
worth so much; but when I think on Miss Jean and her sister, and the lift it might have been
to them, I think more of it than I would otherwise do. And now, Mr. Brandon, I'll trouble you
to move from the fireside; I must put out the kail. But you were aye fond of being in a body's
way."

"I have it," said Mr. Brandon; "it will do."

"What will do?"

"You remember the Phillipses?"

"What should ail me to remember them? But I have such a poor head, I forget to ask the thing
I care most about. How's Mr. Phillips, and how's Emily?"

"All well, and the other four, too."

"And Mrs. Phillips?"

"As well as ever, and handsomer than ever, I think."

"Oh! her looks were never her worst fault. But what did you mean by saying it would do?"

"The Phillipses came home in the vessel with me, and are settled in London for good. I think
the eldest Miss Melville would be exactly the sort of person they want to superintend the household,
for Mrs. Phillips has as little turn for management as ever, and there is a considerable establishment.
And, also, she might make Miss Emily and Miss Harriett attend to their lessons, for, though
they have masters or some such things, they are too much the mistresses of the house to be
controlled by anybody."

"Their father was always very much taken up with these lassies--Emily used to be like the apple
of his eye; and the mistress is too lazy to cross them either, I'm thinking," said Peggy.

"Just so. If Miss Melville's preaching in season or out of season can give her a little more
sense, I think Phillips will be all the better for it. She can keep house, admirably, you say;
and that she is able to teach, these children's books testify. Tell Miss Melville to delay
her resolution about the dressmaking till I communicate with Phillips, which I will do by to-day's
post. He is talking of coming up to the north shortly, principally to visit you, I think, so
he may see her, and can judge for himself. Your account of the young lady seems everything
that can be desired, and Mr. Phillips has such a high opinion of your judgment that your recommendation
will carry great weight."

"He'll bring Emily with him to see me," said Peggy. "Tell him to be sure and bring Emily with
him. I cannot ask you to take pot-luck with us."

"No, I thank you; I have just breakfasted. I do not keep such early hours as I did at Barragong.
We turn night into day in these lands of civilization, and for a change it is remarkably pleasant.
But how do you take to Scotch fare after Australia?" asked Mr. Brandon, eyeing with astonishment
the infinitesimal piece of meat which made the family broth.

"I did not take quite kindly to the porridge at first, and missed the meat that we used to
have in such abundance; but use is second nature, and though I whiles look back with regret
to the flesh-pots of Egypt, I have my strength, and I have some prospect of getting back to
the land of wastrie and extravagance, as I aye used to say it was at Barragong; and Mr. Phillips's
place, at Wiriwilta, was worse still. And Mr. Phillips has made his fortune with all that waste,
and with all his liberality, and a foolish wife, and an expensive family, and is living in
London like a gentleman as he is," said Peggy. "And you really think he would be glad to have
Miss Jean?"

"I have not a doubt of it; but good-bye for the present. I hear your youngsters rattling upstairs.
I will see you again ere long, and must get better acquainted with them. Good-bye, sir," said
Mr. Brandon, to Thomas Lowrie, who having never been called either Mr. or Sir in his life before,
was lost in astonishment at the remarkably fine manners of Peggy's old master.

"A very civil-spoken gentleman, Peggy," said he. "It must have been a pleasure to serve a gentleman
of such politeness."

"What a pity," said Peggy to herself, "that I ever should have told the young ladies that daft-like
story about me and the master. I wish I had bitten my tongue out first. But who was to think
of him turning up like this? And he's just the man for Miss Elsie; but I have made her laugh
at him, and I misdoubt if her proud spirit will bend to him. And after all, what the worse
is he, if she had known nothing about it. And I dare say all young men are alike; and he's
better than the most half of them. There was Elsie so taken up with that lad Dalzell, that
came courting Miss Jean, and if she had heard half that was said about him, poor Mr. Brandon
would have been a saint in comparison. But an opening for Miss Jane is aye worth something.
To think of her being put under the like of Mrs. Phillips; and it's like I'll see Emily--a
spoiled bairn, no doubt--but she had naturally a fine disposition, at least humanly speaking."

It was not in human nature, however, that Peggy should quite lose sight of her own concerns
in her pleasure at the thought of Miss Melville having something better to do than dressmaking.
The recollection of the years of hard work that had converted her little shop into a freehold,
her old pride in having her title made out on parchment, the hurry she had been in to get it
let, to go home by a particular ship, and the obstinate way in which her tenant's wife insisted
on a right of purchase, and her own reluctant admission of the clause, thinking that as the
house was not new, 250 pounds was an outside value for it, and now to think of its being such
a kingdom. The town had run up to her little suburban shop, and far past it; on every side
the monster, Melbourne, had been adding to his extent, and now, on account of the bit of garden
and large yard, that she had thought would be so nice for the children, when she had them out,
and that she had bought very cheap, the value of her property was increased tenfold--but she
was none the richer. The sacrifice she had made had turned out even greater than she had expected,
and now she could not help thinking of how she would miss Miss Melville, and what a loss it
would be to her bairns; and how she was to keep Miss Elsie in tolerable spirits without her
sister was another perplexity.

The duties of the day were gone through as usual, however; but when the children and the old
man had gone to bed, Peggy made up her mind to make a martyr of herself, and to sit up for
the young ladies, who had not been home all day, and with a piece of mending in her hands,
which got on but slowly, she mused on her ill luck. Very tired and sleepy, and a little out
of humour, she was when she opened the door for Jane and Elsie.

"Well, well! I just hope you're the better of your late hours, though they are not just what
I approve of."

"Only once in a way, Peggy; our holiday will soon be over. But you should not have sat up for
us--promise not to do it again. We have enjoyed the theatre to-night, have we not, Elsie?"

"Yes, but the disenchantment comes so soon again."

"I have no great opinion of theatres and play-acting, and such like. I was once in a theatre
in Melbourne, though," said Peggy.

"With one of your sweethearts, Peggy?" asked Jane.

"Whisht with your nonsense, Miss Jean; don't be talking of sweethearts to a douce woman like
me," said Peggy, who, nevertheless was rather proud of her Australian conquests, and liked
to hear them alluded to now and then.

"But how did you like the play?"

"I cannot say I did. To see folk dressed up and painted, rampaging about and talking havers,
just making fools of themselves. A wee insignificant-looking body setting up to be a king!
and the sogers--you should have seen the sogers, as if they could ever fight."

"It is likely there was nothing very first-rate on the Melbourne boards at that time, but our
play to-night was perfectly well got up," said Elsie, "and the acting was admirable."

"I'm no clear that at its best the theatre is a fit place for Christian men and women to frequent,"
said Peggy.

"You prefer the stern realities of life to its most brilliant illusions," said Jane.

"Speaking of the realities of life, Mr. Brandon says he knows of something likely to suit you,
Miss Jane," said Peggy.

"Indeed!" said Jane, with an incredulous smile.

"At least, he says you must resolve on nothing till you hear from him. He is going to write
to London to Mr. Phillips."

"Your Mr. Phillips--is he in London?"

"Yes; and Mr. Brandon says they are sorely in need of somebody to keep the house--for I fancy
everything is at rack and manger if Mrs. Phillips has the management--and to make Emily and
Harriett mind their books, for they are such spoiled bairns. I was showing Mr. Brandon what
you could do with Tam and Nancy and the others, and he says you are exactly the person that
they need; and I can see that it is wondrous feasible."

"What salary should I ask?" said Jane; "or should I leave it to Mr. Phillips?"

"You had better leave it to him; he is not such a skinflint as our benevolent associations.
I always found both him and Mr. Brandon open-handed and willing to pay well for all that was
done for them. To me, Mr. Phillips was most extraordinary liberal."

"Then you think it likely I will get this situation at a respectable salary?"

"I think you are almost sure of it."

"What good news for Francis, to-morrow!" said Jane.

Volume II.

Chapter I.

How Francis Received The Good News

When Francis, after a night's rest disturbed by thoughts and calculations as to ways and means,
had arrived at the definite resolution to ask Jane Melville to marry him, he recalled a thousand
signs of her affectionate regard for him--of her understanding his character as no one ever
cared to understand it before--of her sympathy with all his past life and his present position,
which left him no doubt that she would return his love and accept of him. The home and the
welcome he was prepared to offer to Elsie would plead with her own heart in his favour. All
her theoretical objections as to cousins marrying (which after all is a very doubtful point,
and has much to be said on both sides); all her ambition for himself would melt away before
the warmth of the truest love and the hope of the happiest home in the world. And yet she was
not to be won entirely, or even chiefly, by personal pleadings for happiness, or by the feeling
that her life and Elsie's might go on smoothly and cheerfully with him. She was to be convinced
that it was right that she should marry him, and then the whole of her affectionate and ardent
nature would abandon itself to the pleasure of loving and being beloved. It was because she
had no husband to occupy her heart that she dwelt so fondly on those abstractions of public
duty and social progress, and he would convince her that out of an aggregate of happy homes
a happy people is composed. She had found opportunities both of gaining knowledge and of doing
good in the most unfavourable circumstances, and she would have more chances as his wife, with
his co-operation and sympathy.

She was not the sort of woman his poetical and artistic dreams had been wont to draw as the
partner of his life; not the lovely, clinging, dependent girl who would look up to him for
counsel and support, but something better, both in herself and for him, than his fancy had
ever painted. Her powers of sympathy had been increased by her knowledge; she was as just as
she was generous. There was no corner of his heart he could not lay bare to her; no passage
of his past life that he could not trust to her judging fairly and charitably. Whether he rose
or fell in the world; whether he gained social influence or lost it in the career that he had
again to begin, her foot would be planted firmly beside his; her insight and sympathy would
heighten every enjoyment and fortify him for every trial. That he felt her to be beautiful,
perhaps, was more in his powers of seeing than in her positive charm of countenance; but so
far as the soul looked through her eyes and breathed from her lips, she had a sort of beauty
that did not weary any intelligent gazer, and at all events, which could never weary Francis
Hogarth. After all the flattery he had met with since his accession to fortune, and the conventionalisms
of society in which he had been plunged, he felt the transparent sincerity of Jane's character
something to rest in with perfect confidence and perfect satisfaction. The most brilliant Frenchwomen
had not her earnestness or her power, though they had far more vivacity, and made their interlocutors
more satisfied with themselves. And Francis felt that he ought to be married; and how could
he ever attach himself sufficiently to any other woman and not draw comparisons between her
and the woman whom his interest--his worldly interest alone--forbade him to make his wife?
He must learn to love Jane less, or obtain from herself leave to love her more.

Jane's joyous greeting, when he came to Peggy's for his cousins, to take them to the Exhibition,
startled him not a little; and when she eagerly told him of Mr. Brandon's views for her future
advancement; and that both he and Peggy had no doubt that she would suit the Phillipses; and
that an answer was sure to be had in a few days, and demanded his congratulations on her altered
prospects; then asked him to submit his plans for cottages to Peggy's inspection, as she was
by far the most competent judge as to their merits or deficiencies. Old Thomas Lowrie was also
taken into council, and his wondering admiration of the bonny slated houses was something worth
seeing. Peggy's suggestion of the addition of a little storeroom, in which milk and meal and
potatoes could be kept, was put and carried unanimously. They then went into the allotment
questions, and Jane, Elsie, and Peggy, offered their opinions as to the fittest persons for
the boon, and then began to wonder how many years it would be before they could make the land
pay. All this, which ought to have gratified Francis--for every man should be glad when people
take an interest in his plans--struck a chill to his heart, for it boded no good to his new
visions.

"You seem to be in great spirits altogether, to-day, Jane," said he.

"How can I help it? The prospect of a situation of fifty or sixty pounds a year is something
overpoweringly delightful to me. If I had heard of such a thing six months ago, I should have
been glad, but now that I have felt the difficulty of getting any employment whatever, and
feel quite sure that I am fit for this, my only dread is lest Mr. Phillips may have got another
person, or may not like my appearance; but if he is satisfied to engage me I am determined
to save money to start in business. By and by we are going to join Peggy in Melbourne."

"But your sister--how do you feel about leaving her?"

"I was quite aware that I must leave her if I meant to do anything of any value for myself."

"I am never going to stand in Jane's light any more," said Elsie. "I am not so selfish as to
regret any piece of good fortune that comes to her alone."

"And I think of inquiring a little further as to her poems," said Jane.

"Oh, no! that is altogether useless," said Elsie.

"You promised yesterday to let Francis see them to-day, Elsie. We must have his opinion on
this subject. I certainly think I could do more personally, than by letter, to get them published."

"And Jane always wished so much to see London," said Elsie. "I am so glad to think she has
such a prospect, and from all Peggy's accounts of Mr. Phillips, he is everything that could
be wished. How little we thought when we listened to her long tale about her taking such care
of Emily and Harriett Phillips, the first night we came to live here, that she was saving pupils
for Jane. It seems like a fate."

"Then what are YOU going to do?" said Francis, who did not seem so much delighted with Jane's
good news as she had expected. "Are you to live here with Peggy, as before?"

"Not just as before. I am going to Mrs. Dunn's through the day, and Peggy is good enough to
say she will be glad to keep me, though I lose my better half in Jane. I think I really have
some taste and talent for millinery, and I mean to try to cultivate it; for if we begin business
together in Melbourne, it may be very useful. Jane and I lay awake half the night, talking
over our plans, and I do not see why we should not make our way in time."

"Then, you are going to forget the Muses altogether, and give your whole soul to business?"

"Did you not do that every day, cousin Francis, when you were at the Bank?" said Elsie.

"Perhaps you may write better poetry when you do not make it your day's work. Do you not think
she may, Francis?" said Jane.

"Very probably--very probably she may;" said Francis, thoughtfully, as if he were weighing
the advantages of literature being a staff, over its being a crutch, but in reality he was
not thinking of Elsie or her verses, at all.

He had prepared himself to make a great sacrifice--to do something very generous and Quixotic--not
altogether uninfluenced by the wish for personal happiness of the highest kind; but yet he
believed that his chief motives for taking the resolution were the forlorn and hopeless situation
of the two girls. Now they were no longer forlorn or hopeless. If this situation for Jane was
obtained, and Elsie persevered in her determination to work hard at the perfecting of her taste
for making caps and bonnets, they had a definite plan of life, likely to be as prosperous as
that he could offer to them. And Jane would not accept of him to-day, though she would probably
have done so yesterday. His plans, his ambitions, were too dear to her to be thrown away lightly,
and he could see nothing but sisterly affection in her eyes. If she took the position she was
entitled to at Mr. Phillips's, she was likely to meet with some society there, and Mr. Brandon,
or some other Australian settler, not so shy of matrimony without a fortune on the lady's part,
as the middle-class Englishman of this century is, might see some of the virtues and attractions
which he had learned to love--no one could see so many of them as himself--and might win the
best wife in the world, without being fully conscious of the blessing. He knew the real strength
of his love, when he tried to fancy Jane the wife of any one else. He almost wished she might
fail in her object, and that Mr. Phillips would decide that she would not suit. He was selfish
enough to hope that she might not be happy there. They must continue to correspond as frequently
and as openly as hitherto. He would watch for any turn that might offer him hope, and he must
be all the more careful to disguise his real feelings, lest it might prevent her from expressing
herself as frankly as she had done. When a blessing appears to be lost its value is greatly
enhanced, and all the comforts, and privileges, and opportunities, of his present situation,
that he had made such an effort to give up, seemed to shrink into insignificance, compared
with the domestic happiness that was now eluding his grasp.

"There was great lamentation among the bairns this morning when I said something about Miss
Jean maybe leaving us; but they took great comfort from the recollection that they had learned
to write so well that they might send real post letters to her--not mere make-believes--and
she promised to answer them. Tam says if she goes to London she must keep on the look-out for
anything that is in his line, and indeed Miss Jean said she would. It is a real blessing that
penny post. In my young days, to think of writing back and fore to London about anything ye
wanted to know would have been out of the question for poor folk," said Peggy.

"You must write to me, too," said Francis, "about all the things and all the people you see,
and how you like them, and if you tire of London or of teaching--just every mood as you feel
it. I do not think it was quite fair in you always showing me the brightest side of your life.
I do not mean to show you always mine."

"When you are disappointed because the workmen will not build the cottages fast enough, or
because the inhabitants do not keep them as clean as your fastidious taste thinks necessary,
or because the dull Scottish brain will not readily take up the Flemish or French ideas you
want to engraft in them, you will write all your indignant or disgusted expressions to me,
rather than lose patience with the people themselves--it is safer. I am prepared for some disappointments,
but I will wait patiently and in hope for the end."

"Did you always have this large amount of public spirit, Jane? It struck me very forcibly the
first evening you spent with me at my house."

"I think it lay dormant for a few months before my uncle's death," said Jane, laughing; "but
it came out stronger than ever afterwards. Francis is very grave to-day. I would not trust
him with your verses, Elsie; his criticisms will be far too severe in his present mood."

"But I will trust him just at this very time," said Elsie; "for if this dull morning has made
him a little depressed, perhaps he may feel a little for me sitting in my cheerless room, without
hope and without society. I beg your pardon, Jane, you are always good and kind, and so was
Peggy, and every one; but it was so dull--so very dull. But what I mean is, that if Francis
is moody and dispirited, as a great many people are at times, my verses will not seem to him
such a wail as to the busy, merry world we live in. I never saw a more favourable-looking critic."

Elsie then went to her drawer, and for the first time since she had tied up her manuscript
touched it without a sick pang at her heart. The very sight of the enveloping brown paper had
been odious to her: but to-day she felt courage enough to untie it, and to select a few of
what she considered her best pieces for her cousin's perusal.

Much depends on the mood of the reader of poetry. Francis did not find Elsie's sad views of
life at all overdrawn, and he pointed out both to her and to Jane many fine passages, and what
he considered to be pretty images. Here and there he found fault; but, on the whole, he said
Elsie's verses were full of promise, and she only had to wait patiently for awhile--to observe
as well as to reflect, and not to be quite so subjective--to attain to excellence.

At the Exhibition and at the concert in the evening, Francis had again to admire the naturally
fine taste of his younger cousin, and to lament with her that none of her talents had been
cultivated. According to all his preconceived fancies, he should have fallen in love with Elsie;
but it was not so. She was a sweet, amiable girl, with a great deal of quickness and undeveloped
talent, but she was chiefly dear to him as Jane's sister. Elsie felt for the time restored
to a better opinion of herself, and was grateful to the person who thought well of what the
world seemed to despise. She was disposed now to do Francis justice, and more than justice.
Never had she talked with a man of finer taste or more admirable judgment. She caught another
glimpse of William Dalzell, who was at the concert with the Rennies and Miss Wilson, and contrasted
her old favourite with her new, very much to the disadvantage of the former.

Francis was aware that this was the person from whose attentions Jane had been in such danger.
He could scarcely conceive the possibility of a woman of such admirable sense and such penetration
as Jane forming an attachment to one so shallow and so unheroic. He felt himself scarcely worthy
of Jane Melville, and he would never compare himself with the Laird of Mosstower. But the young
people had been thrown together, and had spent much of their time of meeting in the open air.
William Dalzell was a good rider and a fearless sportsman; he rode a beautiful horse, and was
very careful of it. He appeared to have a good temper, and his mother worshipped him, while
Elsie was never weary of sounding his praises. Mr. Hogarth was in indifferent health, and was
somewhat exacting at all times. He had not the sympathy with the high spirits of youth that
he had had in former years, so that Jane had enjoyed the animated rides, where she did most
of the talking to a listener, young, handsome, and determined to be pleased with everything
she said and did. She thought she interested him in her favourite subjects; he had said that
she improved him, and his mother said the same; so that she rejoined in her influence, which
seemed to bear such good results.

Miss Rennie, who had heard when in ----shire, a somewhat exaggerated account of young Dalzell's
attachment to Miss Melville, was very much disgusted with his conduct, and though his attentions
to Laura Wilson amused her very much, she had a grudge at him for their mercenary motives.
Laura was evidently captivated at first sight; she could speak of nobody but Mr. Dalzell, and
Mr. Rennie as her guardian was a little alarmed, but on inquiry he found that Moss Tower was
not very deeply dipped after all; Mrs. Dalzell had her jointure off it, but he was an only
son, and any little wildness or extravagance of youth was likely to be put an end to by marriage.
Laura was a somewhat troublesome ward, so passionate and so self-willed that even at school
she had carried her point against him by sheer determination over and over again, and he wished
heartily to be well freed of her by marriage with a tolerably respectable man. Her fortune
he would secure her future husband from making ducks and drakes of by settlements, which are
generally in Britain framed as if the future husband was an enemy to be dreaded, and not a
friend to be trusted. For the law as it stands puts such enormous power, not only over happiness
(which is inevitable), but over property and liberty, into the hands of the husband, to be
used against as well as for the advantage of the wife, that it is only by taking power from
both, and vesting it in trustees, that money can be saved for the wife and children. In the
cases where the marriage is a happy one, the settlement is a hindrance and a nuisance; but
in such cases as that of William Dalzell and Laura Wilson, it would be prudent to evade the
law of the land, and to preserve the property of the heiress by such means.

Chapter II.

Jane's Situation

In an almost incredibly short time, Mr. Brandon called at Peggy Walker's to say that he had
had a letter from Mr. Phillips, who thought very favourably of Miss Melville from his description,
but who would come to Edinburgh himself in a day or two and see the young lady, so as to judge
for himself.

He came accordingly, but, to Peggy's great disappointment, without Emily or Harriett. They
had both bad colds, and he could not make them travel in the depth of winter even to see Peggy.
Jane and Elsie could not but admire the kindly greeting to gave to his old and faithful servant,
and the interest he took in her affairs and her children, which was even more strongly expressed
than Mr. Brandon's; and as for grandfather, he could not tell which of the two Australian gentlemen
was the most polite.

The manners of the younger sister took Mr. Phillips's fancy more than those of the elder, but
he saw that Jane would suit him best; so, in a much shorter time than she could have conceived
possible, she found herself engaged to accompany him on his return to London, as housekeeper
and governess, at a salary of 70 pounds a year.

"We mean to come to Edinburgh next summer, when we will probably take a tour in the Highlands,
so that you have a prospect of seeing your sister then," said Mr. Phillips: "but I must have
you with us as soon as possible, so I hope you will be ready the day after to-morrow."

"Yes, I will be quite ready then," said Jane. "I have not much to do, except to part from Elsie,
and that will be hard to do at last as at first."

While Mr. Phillips talked to Peggy about his children, and especially of Emily, the girls both
examined his countenance and drew their conclusions as to his character. He was not so handsome
as Mr. Brandon, being smaller and more insignificant-looking, and his fair complexion had not
stood so well the constant exposure to the weather under an Australian sun as Mr. Brandon's
dark one, but his smile was remarkably bright, and though his manner was very gentle and pleasing,
he did not seem to want for decision of character.

"I doubt Emily is changed out of my knowledge. I have not seen her since she was four years
and a half old, when you brought her to Melbourne for me to see, and when she coaxed me out
of far more lollies than were good for her."

"I will bring her up in summer, and you will acknowledge that you would know her anywhere.
As for you, she will know you quite well, for did not we get your likeness taken at the time,
and she shows it to every one as that of her dear old nurse."

"I hope you're no spoiling the bairn."

"Oh! no, not much--at least, if we are, we will get Miss Melville to counteract our bad treatment."

"You're no to make Miss Melville a terror--that's no fair. But the wee things after Harriett,
how do you call them?"

"Constance, Hubert, and Eva."

"Well, they should save the eldest from being destroyed by foolish indulgence, for Emily and
Harriett should be learned to give way to them."

"Everybody gives way to all of the five--but you must not say they are spoiled, either. Harriett
and Emily, too, learned a lot of monkey tricks on board ship. The gentlemen took so much notice
of them, and encouraged a good deal of impertinence in the children."

"A ship is a bad school for bairns," said Peggy. "Mine will be come some length before we go
on board, and are not like to be so much taken notice of. Does Mrs. Phillips like England?"

"Very much, indeed. She will not go back with her own goodwill, and I hope not to need to return."

"All your friends are in this country," said Peggy, "and Mrs. Phillips will have so much new
to see here that she will not regret the station. And how's Mrs. Bennett, is she still with
you, and Martha, Mrs. Tuck they call her now?"

"They are both on the station yet, Peggy; Mrs. Bennett the same admirable woman she used to
be, but one cannot advance her any way with such a poor creature of a husband. There is no
rise in him; he is a shepherd, and a shepherd he will remain to the end of his days, spending
his wages in an occasional spree, and then coming back to us to work for more; while that poor
silly Martha happened on one of the best men about the place, and I have left him an under-overseer.
If the two men could only have exchanged wives, things would appear more equitably arranged."

"Well," said Peggy, when Mr. Phillips had gone, "people can see other folks' blunders, but
the man that I thought worst mated on the station was the master himself. You'll have to take
high ground with Mrs. Phillips, Miss Melville, for if you give her an inch she will take an
ell. As for him, he is everything that is reasonable; and the bairns, you must just make them
mind you. But she is the one that will give you the most trouble."

When this engagement was entered into Jane accompanied Elsie to Mrs. Dunn's, who readily took
her into her work-room, and was very much pleased to hear that Miss Melville had got such a
desirable situation. The Rennies were also full of congratulations, and felt that their invitations
and their getting the sisters an introduction to Mr. Brandon, had secured such a magnificent
salary from another Australian millionaire. Miss Rennie was particularly pleased that she had
dwelt so much on the misfortunes and talents of the sisters. The last evening Jane spent in
Edinburgh was passed at the Rennies'; Mr. Brandon was asked to meet the girls he had been of
such service to, and though Mr. Hogarth was rather dull, and Laura Wilson in a particularly
unamiable mood, the liveliness of the Australian settler made it pass off very pleasantly.

Jane had not only Mr. Phillips, but Mr. Brandon also as travelling companion. Australians in
England have a great tendency to fraternise, even though they were not much acquainted in the
colony, and when his old neighbour returned to London, Brandon thought he could not do better
than go with him, and go back to the north when it was not quite so cold. The gentlemen had
a great deal to say to each other on matters both colonial and English. In English politics
they took quite as great an interest as if they had never been out of Britain, and in Continental
politics they took a greater interest than is usual with English people. Jane was occupied
with her own thoughts. The parting from Elsie had been a sad one, so had the good-bye to Francis,
who had said so much about her writing if she was unhappy, or if she did not think she could
keep her situation with a lady of such a peculiar temper as Mrs. Phillips, that she could not
help fearing herself for the permanency of the situation.

Nothing that had fallen from Peggy, or from Mr. Brandon either, had prepared Jane for the exceeding
beauty of Mrs. Phillips. Jane never had seen a woman so strikingly handsome before. When she
spoke the charm was somewhat broken, for her ideas were not brilliant, and she expressed herself
in indifferent English; but in repose she was like a queen of romance. Tall and large, but
exquisitely formed, with a soft creamy complexion, with a slight faint rose colour on the cheeks,
and a more vivid red on the pouting lips, finely-shaped brown eyes, and a profusion of rippling
dark brown hair, she certainly offered the fairest possible excuse for her husband's marrying
beneath his rank--both social and intellectual. Such beauty as Mrs. Phillips's is a power,
and Jane felt how difficult it would be to take high ground with so exquisite a creature. As
Mr. Brandon said, she was handsomer than ever; the girlish beauty of sixteen, which she possessed
when she captivated Mr. Phillips, had matured into the perfect beauty of womanhood. Though
the mother of five children, she was not, and certainly did not look, twenty-seven. Emily was
not so regularly handsome as her mother, but had more animation and more play of feature. Harriett
would have been considered a pretty child in any other family, but she was quite a plain one
in this.

No sooner had Mr. Phillips entered his house than Emily clung round his neck; Harriett mounted
on one knee and played with his hair; Constance got on the other to have a little similar amusement
with his beard and whiskers; Hubert clamoured for a ride on papa's foot; and little Eva cried
to leave her nurse's arms to be taken up by him too.

"I was very glad to hear from Mr. Phillips, that you was coming, Miss Melville; the trouble
of the house and the row of the children make it far too much for me, and when one comes home
to England for a holiday, they want to have some peace,' said Mrs. Phillips. 'Now, Miss Emily,
you must be on your good behaviour, now Miss Melville's come to be your governess."

"I'm sure I shan't behave any better to her than to my own dear papa," said Emily, with a storm
of kisses.

"You're getting up to be a great girl. I'm sure Miss Melville will be quite shocked at your
backwardness."

"She is a bush child," said Mr. Brandon, "and has been running wild all her life; you must
excuse her for the present, but we hope to see great improvement."

"I am much afraid you will be disappointed, you dear old boy," said Emily, who had left her
father and come up to Mr. Brandon, who was her particular favourite. "Keep your spirits up
as well as you can; I am not going to be like your wonderful nephews and nieces at Ashfield.
I never saw such ignorant children; they did not know how to make dirt pies, nor could they
jump across the ditch, or get up by the trees to the top of the garden wall. Harriett and I
had such a beautiful race round that garden, and they looked on so terrified."

"They could take the shine out of you at lessons, however," said Mr. Brandon, "and I won't
take you there again to have another such spirited race till I hear satisfactory accounts of
you from Miss Melville."

"Oh! the race was well enough, but the visit was very slow upon the whole, so I don't think
I will break my heart if I never see the place again. Harriett may try to deserve it, but I
will not take the trouble."

"I hate books," said Miss Harriett, "except picture books, and the fairy tales papa reads to us."

"You must not mind what they say, Miss Melville," said Mr. Phillips.

"I do not intend to do so. I hope to make them like their lessons by and by, and in the meantime
they must learn them whether they like them or not."

"You would be astonished, Lily," said Mr. Phillips, addressing his wife, "to see what a clever,
intelligent family of nephews and nieces Peggy has got. Miss Melville has been good enough
to give them some extra instruction, and they certainly have profited by it; but even without
that, Peggy has given them every advantage that she possibly could."

"Oh! Peggy had always very uppish notions," said Mrs. Phillips, "it will be a pity if she educates
these children above their position."

"No one knows what position they may not take with such abilities and education in such a colony
as Victoria. I may have to stand cap in hand to Tom Lowrie yet," said Mr. Phillips.

"You, Stanley!" said his wife; "you are so fond of saying absurd things."

"Don't you know the insecurity of runs? And who knows but Tom may be Prime Minister or Commissioner
of Public Lands or Public Works, or the chief engineer on a new railway, that may go right
through my squatting rights? My dear Lily, I have a respect for incipient greatness, and when
I stood among these young people, I felt they would be rising when I was perhaps falling."

"Were these your motives?" said Mr. Brandon, laughing. "I admired the young Lowries for what
they were in themselves, and did not go so far into the future as you. I hope, Emily, that
in time, Miss Melville will make you what Peggy calls keen of your learning, as well as her
bairns."

"Did you like learning when you were a little girl?" asked Emily of Miss Melville.

"Very much, indeed."

"So mamma says, but then she did not have to learn very much. If I had not such a horrid lot
of tasks, perhaps I might like some of them."

"But, my dear, you are so very ignorant, you have everything to learn now that you have come
to England," said her mamma.

"But I hope not everything at once," said Jane.

"Not quite," said Mr. Phillips; "but perhaps too much so. You will see the list of the girls'
studies to-morrow, and judge for yourself."

Mrs. Phillips was favourably impressed with Jane. She was well born and well educated, but
she was plain looking. She had heard of her sudden and sad reverse of fortune, and felt disposed
to take her up and patronise her. She had suffered from the want of a domestic manager and
house counsellor; even the very good temper and great forbearance of her husband had given
way at the small amount of comfort that could be obtained with such a lavish expenditure of
money as his had been since they came to London; and he had spoken more sharply to her about
her mismanagement than about anything else, so she felt that now he had a housekeeper of his
own choosing, she should escape from all responsibility. Her manner to Jane was exceedingly
kind, and Jane's hopes rose at her reception.

Mrs. Phillips always went to bed early, unless she was kept up by amusement and gaiety; her
style of beauty was of the kind that suits best with plenty of sleep and few cares--so at ten
o'clock she said she could sit up no longer, and left Mr. Phillips to explain all the duties
expected of Miss Melville, so that she need not be disturbed by any inquiries in the morning.

Mr. Phillips did so with a clearness and precision that showed he had been often obliged to
see to the disbursement of the money as well as the earning if it. He gave Jane the keys and
the house-books, showed her what he thought was the sum he could spend on family expenses,
and hoped that she would make it suffice.

"I wish you to be one of the family, Miss Melville; to visit and go to public places with Mrs.
Phillips. I think we may dispense with all the masters for my little girls, except for music,
and I hope that you will succeed in making them like both you and their lessons. I also hope,
in a short time, to give you still more difficult and delicate work to do, and if you can be
successful there, I will be most grateful to you. Mrs. Phillips has had a very imperfect education;
she was born in the colonies, and was married when a mere child, and since her marriage she
has had few opportunities of improving herself either by books or society. I think she feels
her deficiencies; so if you could ingratiate yourself with her--she appears to be most favourably
disposed towards you at first sight--and induce her to learn a little from you, you would add
very greatly to our happiness and comfort, and I should be infinitely your debtor."

Mr. Phillips hesitated, and coloured a little while he made this suggestion. Jane said she
would do what she could, and would be most happy to further his views in this and in every
other way; but she felt not a little fearful at the idea of having to ingratiate herself with
the woman she had been exhorted to take high ground with, and to teach, probably in the most
elementary branches, the most lovely creature she had ever seen, the mistress of the house,
and a person several years her senior. Still, no difficulty--no honour. She had wanted full
employment, and here she was likely to get it.

Jane did not think she had naturally any great turn for children, but the little Phillipses
had been so accustomed to have people pet and yield to them that they actually seemed to enjoy
the repose and happiness of obeying, and obeying at once, their calm, grave governess, who
never asked them to do anything unreasonable, but yet who always insisted on implicit acquiescence.
They were indebted to her tor the shortening and simplifying of all their lessons in the first
place, and that called out a considerable amount of gratitude. She had a clear way of explaining
things to them, and she had such a large information on all subjects that she filled out the
dry skeletons of geography and history which children are condemned to learn, and made them
look living and real to them. Their father had taught the two elder girls to read, and to read
well and fluently; but they had had no other lessons till they had come to London, and found
their hitherto unexercised memories quite overtaxed by masters, who saw that the girls were
quick, intelligent, and observant, with a great deal of practical knowledge quite unusual in
England at their years, but absolutely devoid of all school acquirements. They found their
lessons much more interesting to learn and much better retained when learned under Miss Melville
than under their masters; and though they were not particularly fond of her, they were very
happy with her.

Mrs. Phillips's only objection to Miss Melville was her Scotch accent; but, before six weeks
had passed she had got over that, and thought being in London had softened it down very considerably,
and she did not think the children were at all inclined to pick it up. She began to wonder
if the governess would not give her some help or some hints, for she was going to visit her
husband's relations in Derbyshire for a second time--her first visit had not been very long--and
she hoped and wished that she might get on better than she had done before. Her husband had
never found any fault with her in the bush of Australia; but her blunders before his father,
brother, and sisters had distressed him so much that he had spoken to her many times rather
sharply in private about them. Though she was a woman of a very indolent character, now that
Jane managed all her housekeeping and her servants, wrote all her notes--that, however, was
a saving of time to her husband rather than to herself--and relieved her a good deal from the
worry of the children, she felt that she had some time on her hands, in spite of her going
out a good deal to see and to be seen. She was no reader, and had no taste for needlework;
but she had the gift of being able to sit in an easy chair thinking of nothing in particular,
and doing nothing at all, but looking so beautiful that one might have fancied her thoughts
to be of the most elevated description.

One day, while in this state of luxurious ease, she asked Jane how long she had been at school,
and opened her eyes a hair-breadth or two wider when she was told of the education so peculiar,
so protracted, that Mr. Hogarth had given to his nieces, and that even after she had left off
regular study, Jane had never ceased to be learning something. Even now she was keeping up,
partly for Tom Lowrie's sake, and partly for her own gratification, some of those branches
of learning that were likely to be useful to him, and corresponding with him every week on
those subjects.

Mrs. Phillips sighed, and said she had been married at sixteen, and had been very little at
school all her life. She had always been moved from place to place when she was a girl, and
there were no schools in the colony that were fit to teach young ladies then. Even now, it
was the children's education that had been Mr. Phillips's great inducement to come to England,
and she liked it very much herself, there was so much to see in London. But would Miss Melville
think it very absurd if she were to propose to take lessons now? Jane said she would not think
it at all absurd; she was sure Mrs. Phillips would find it very pleasant. But she was rather
perplexed when the lady said that her chief ambition was to learn the pianoforte and how to
make wax flowers. She had no particular taste for music, and no artistic taste at all; but
music and wax flowers were expensive, fashionable, and showy accomplishments, and these Mrs.
Phillips desired to acquire.

"These are things, unfortunately, that I cannot give you any assistance with," said Jane, recovering
her presence of mind, "and perhaps you would not like to have masters and mistresses coming
in for yourself. Any other branch of study we could go on with together, and that would be
pleasanter. Music demands so very much time if you wish to make rapid progress."

"Emily only practises an hour and Harriett half an hour a day now, and though their master
wished them to practise twice as long, they seem to get on much better since you said they
should not be so long at the piano."

"Because it is practising, not amusing themselves or dawdling, and because it is an hour and
half an hour, neither more nor less, and not an uncertain time, which is left to the performer's
pleasure. To make any progress with music after you are grown up, you must give three or four
hours a day to its acquirement, and that you would find it difficult--almost impossible--to
keep up. But, as I said before, music is a thing I am so ignorant of that I can give you no
assistance and no advice on the subject."

"I would like your assistance," said Mrs. Phillips, "for the children do get on with you, and
they say that you make their lessons an amusement."

"Should you not like to be with us while we are at study, and see if you think you could derive
any benefit from my method? Come into the schoolroom to-morrow with us?"

Mrs. Phillips agreed to this, and thought the lessons were very pleasant. Sometimes Jane made
the little girls repeat their lessons to their mamma, still exercising the supervision which
made them feel they must be as careful as heretofore. The oral instruction which accompanied
the lessons studied from the book, seemed to Mrs. Phillips as well as to the children, the
most interesting part of it, and as the language was simplified for the comprehension of the
little pupils, it was not at all too abstract for their mother. She declared herself delighted
with the morning at school, and tried to persuade herself that she was only going there to
see how her governess did her duty by her children. In this way, by sitting two hours every
forenoon with Miss Melville, she contrived to pick up something, and though both her husband
and Jane would have been glad if the studies had been prosecuted a little further, they were
very much pleased with so much improvement.

The idea of learning music still haunted Mrs. Phillips, and she obtained her husband's consent
to her having lessons from Emily's master; but her progress was so slow that she tired of it
in a month, and blamed her teacher for his stupid dry way of setting her to work. If Miss Melville
had only understood music, she knew she would have got on ever so much better, for she had
such a knack of teaching people. On the whole, Jane was satisfied with her situation, and with
the manner in which she filled it, and when Mr. Phillips paid her her first quarter's salary,
he expressed himself in the highest degree satisfied with everything she had done. If she could
only have felt that Elsie was well and happy, she would have been perfectly happy herself,
but the letters from Edinburgh were not at all cheerful. Elsie's account of herself, and Francis's
accounts of her, were unsatisfactory, and even Peggy had written a few lines recently to say
that she was uneasy about her, and did not think the situation at Mrs. Dunn's agreed with Miss
Elsie at all.

It was still months before she could hope to go to Edinburgh to see her sister; but she wrote,
urging her to give up her employment, and to take as much open-air exercise as possible, and
also to take medical advice on the subject; but Elsie did not agree to this. The family plans
were all laid for a visit to Derbyshire, and Mr. Brandon, who seemed always to be on the move,
when his old neighbours were leaving London, seeing Jane's distress about her sister, ventured
on a good-natured suggestion in her behalf.

"I think you might go up now and see Peggy before you go to Derbyshire; you know she is anxious
to see Emily and the other children. I could go with you. I wish so much to see the meeting
between them."

"We cannot go to Scotland so early in the season. Autumn is the time when it is pleasant to
travel in the north."

"But then I cannot be a witness to Peggy's delight, for if you delay so long I will have to
be off to Melbourne before that time. I thought if you went now you might leave Miss Melville
with her sister while you pay your visit. You do not mean to take her there, and the servants
here will, I suppose, be put on board wages during your absence, so that she need not remain
in London."

"We hope and expect that Miss Melville will accompany us to Derbyshire, that the children may
go on with their lessons, and not get into as much mischief as they did on their last visit,"
said Mr. Phillips.

"I am sure their aunts made great complaints of them," said Mrs. Phillips, "and I do not wish
to give room for so much complaint again. I hope Miss Melville will come with us."

"I would have escorted Miss Melville to Edinburgh before I went to Ashfield, for I must see
that worthy Peggy again before I leave England, and visit my Edinburgh relatives again, too,
and my time is getting short," said Mr. Brandon; "but if you cannot spare her, I cannot do
anything but go to see her sister, and report myself on her appearance; perhaps your letters
are duller than the reality."

"Did you not tell me your sister was a milliner, Miss Melville? What a sad thing. I am sure
you are such a treasure to us that I wish some other family would take your sister," said Mrs.
Phillips.

"She thinks millinery preferable to idleness; but the long hours, and the cold rooms, and the
solitary life are too hard upon her."

"It must be dull for her to have no other society but that of our good Peggy and her bairns
after a long day's work. Don't you think, Lily, that it would be a pleasant change for her
to come and spend a few weeks with us after we return to London, as her sister cannot yet go
to her?" said Mr. Phillips.

The idea of befriending Jane's sister in this way was not disagreeable to Mrs. Phillips. The
invitation was given, and joyfully accepted. Mr. Brandon would delay his visit to the north
till it was about the time for Elsie to come down, and would take care of her on the way.

Jane felt happy in this new proof of the kind feeling of the family towards her, and accompanied
them to Derbyshire with a lighter heart.

Mr. Phillip's father was a medical man, with an excellent country practice, intelligent, chatty,
and hospitable. He had married a Miss Stanley, who was not only of very good birth, but who
had a considerable fortune, which was settled on her children. Her eldest son's portion of
it had been the nucleus of the handsome fortune he had realised in Victoria. The old gentleman
had been long a widower, and his two unmarried daughters lived with him, and kept his house,
while his younger son had been brought up to assist his father in his profession, and eventually
to succeed to the practice, but he, seeing how well his brother Stanley had got on, had a great
hankering after an unlimited sheep-run in Australia.

The Misses Phillips were not young, but they were well dressed, well mannered, and good looking.
There was a happy, prosperous, confident air about both of the sisters, and especially about
the younger of the two. They were the darlings of their father, the first in their own set
of acquaintances, a great deal taken notice of, on account both of their mother's social position
and their father's professional talent, by county families; successful in domestic management,
successful in society, of good understanding, and well educated, the Misses Phillips were looked
up to very much, and felt that they deserved to be so. They were much disappointed in their
brother's wife; from his letters, and the likenesses he had sent home, they were prepared for
a romantic and interesting, as well as beautiful woman, but her want of education and of understanding,
which they soon discovered on personal acquaintance, was most mortifying to ladies who thought
they possessed both in a high degree, and they were quite distressed at having to introduce
her into society. The husband saw and felt their coldness towards his wife, while Mrs. Phillips
filled his ears with complaints of their uppishness, and their disagreeable ways.

Mr. Phillips had been so proud and so fond of his sisters, and had talked so much to her about
their beauty, their cleverness, and their goodness, that she thought she too had a right to
be disappointed. Their beauty had diminished during his fourteen years' absence in Australia;
their cleverness only made her uncomfortable; and their goodness did not seem to extend to
her. What right had a couple of ordinary-looking old maids to look down on her, a married woman
of so many years' standing, so much younger and handsomer? She liked Jane Melville far better
than either of her sisters-in-law, for, with more real mental superiority, there was an inferiority
in position that set her at her ease.

Mr. Phillips was a little disappointed with his sisters, though he would scarcely own it to
himself. The blooming girls of twenty-one and seventeen whom he had left were somewhat faded
in the course of the many years' absence; and the very different lives that they had led made
them take different views of most subjects. Their opinions had hardened separately, and when
they met again they did not harmonize as they had done. His sisters were more aristocratic
in all their tastes and feelings than the Australian squatter; they had scarcely mixed at all
with children, and had no patience with his wild bush children, whose frankness and audacity
were so terribly embarrassing; and they had shown their disappointment at his MESALLIANCE very
decidedly.

But on this occasion things went on much better; both Mrs. Phillips and the children were decidedly
improved, and the sisters-in-law gave Miss Melville the credit of it, and liked her accordingly.

Miss Melville was presentable anywhere, though she was only a governess. The tale which Mr.
Phillips told of her reverse of fortune interested them all, particularly the old gentleman.

He had met with Jane's uncle when he had been studying in Paris, who was then only a younger
son, and had been just released from the strict discipline of a Scotch puritanical home, and
not being ambitious of filling the subordinate office of "Jock, the laird's brother," wished
to learn a profession, and thought he might try medicine as well as anything else. He was then
clever, idle, and extravagant, but a great favourite with everybody. Jane questioned Dr. Phillips
about the date of this acquaintance, but it had occurred before the supposed time of Francis's
birth, so that he could throw no light on that question. Still she wrote to Francis on the
subject, though she had thought his letters lately had been colder than before, and feared
that his friendship for her was not so deeply seated as hers for him. Willing to show that
her feelings towards him were unchanged, she entered into the same minute description of the
family she was at present living with as she had done of the pupils, and the employers, and
the visitors in London. She was at this time more interested in Dr. Phillips and his younger
son Vivian than in any of the ladies of the family, and felt particularly puzzled to explain
the desire of the latter to leave the country and his profession, when he had talents quite
sufficient to make a good figure, for such a life as Mr. Brandon's had been in the Australian
bush. He was the most scientific man whom Jane had met with in society; and, as he met with
very little sympathy from either of his sisters in his chemical experiments or his geological
researches, he appreciated her intelligent and inquiring turn of mind. There were many things
he could throw light on which would be of service to Tom Lowrie, and were mentioned in her
letters to him. Young Dr. Vivian Phillips had submitted to a great deal of the inevitable spoiling
which an only brother at home receives. Georgiana was very strongly attached to him; and though
Harriett had always said that she preferred Stanley, yet, when he came back, with his uncongenial
wife and large family of young children to engross nine-tenths of his heart, her partiality
for him seemed to fade away, and she felt that Vivian was far better than the other--at least,
more clever and more English in his ideas; but Stanley was more liberal, and had a better temper.
Vivian had fits of bad temper which no one could conquer, and his sisters found it was the
only plan to let him alone.

Vivian would never think of falling in love with his brother's governess--he knew his own position
too well for that: so that his sisters had no fear of his being in any danger when Jane joined
him in his experiments in the laboratory, or went out with him and the children geologising.
And they were perfectly right in that surmise. He liked Jane because he felt her to be a perfectly
safe person--just a little more interesting than a companion of his own sex, and one to place
rather more confidence in, for she had more sympathy and more enthusiasm; but she had excellent
sense, and did not appear to be at all impressible.

Jane described the beautiful country walks she took, which she was sure Francis or Elsie would
appreciate far better than she could do. She contrasted the activity and full life of the gentlemen
of the house with the languid idleness of Mrs. Phillips and the busy idleness of her sisters-in-law,
and thought it very unjust that all the work of the world should be done by the one sex and
so little left for the other. She had thought the Misses Phillips superior to the Swinton young
ladies at first; but on closer acquaintance, she found it quite as difficult to grow intimate
with them. She thought she would prefer the High Church, and almost Puseyite, tendencies of
the English women to the narrow and gloomy views of her Scotch neighbours; but her independent
turn of mind, her eager love of inquiry and her thirst for truth, were as much cramped by the
one as the other.

An enormous part of the Misses Phillips' lives was occupied in visiting and receiving visitors.
Their superintendence of their father's household was very different from what had been expected
from Jane and Elsie at Cross Hall. They had old and faithful servants, who knew their work
and did it, and rarely troubled their mistresses for orders. They did not take the same interest
or trouble about the poor which the Misses Melville had done. If Dr. Phillips mentioned any
case of distress, the cook was directed to send broth, or wine, or they might even give a little
money; but there was no personal inconvenience suffered or sacrifice made for the relief of
want or the comforting of sorrow. The charity was given with the smallest amount of sympathy,
and accepted with the smallest amount of gratitude.

In public matters, in social progress, in sanitary reforms, all the gentlemen took a lively
interest; but the ladies considered these things quite out of their own line. There was this
difference, however, between the sisters, that Georgiana (the eldest) could make any sacrifice
cheerfully for any member of her own family, but Harriett was disinclined to make any, even
for them. It is not to be supposed that the world in general saw all these traits as Jane,
in her peculiar circumstances, and with her observant powers, had so much opportunity of doing.
They were considered to be very superior and very amiable young ladies, and Mr. Brandon had
been rather surprised at himself for not fixing his affections on Harriett, who, as the favourite
sister of his dearest friend, would be suitable in every respect, and who appeared to have
all the qualifications to make a good wife.

Chapter III.

Elsie's Situation

It was not mere fancy on Jane's part that Elsie was ill and unhappy. She had magnanimously
made up her mind to go to work with industry and spirit, and Mrs. Dunn was perfectly satisfied
with her. But she missed Jane's society far more than her sister could miss hers. Jane was
constantly employed in occupations that demanded intelligence and thought. She had access to
books; she went to theatres and places of public amusement even more than she cared for; she
had the society of Mr. Phillips constantly, and that of Mr. Brandon and several other Australians,
who were either retired on a competency or home on a visit, very frequently, and she certainly
thought them generally pleasant and intelligent, and more agreeable company than the provincial
people in and about Swinton. Their frank acknowledgment of the early struggles which they had
had with fortune, the hearty manner in which they enjoyed the prosperity they had earned, and
their kindly feeling towards each other, made Jane have a favourable impression of colonial
people. Mr. Phillips had become acquainted with several people from other colonies than Victoria,
partly on board ship, and partly from other introductions. A curious and ignorant suspicion
that somehow all Australians have a sort of convict origin, made it more difficult at that
time for them than for retired Indians to get into general society. There was no nice distinction
drawn between the different colonies; between New South Wales and Victoria, or South Australia
and Tasmania in those days--a slight savour of Botany Bay was supposed to hang about them all.
But they formed a pleasant little clique of their own, less exclusive than most cliques, and
generally disposed to hold up each one his own particular colony as preferable to the others.
They might contrast it unfavourably with Britain, but as compared with the other colonies,
it ought to bear the palm.

Elsie felt the want of this intelligence and this variety of character that Jane described
to her so minutely in her frequent letters, and regretted that she could write nothing interesting
in return. When she came home after a long day's work, she thought she ought to try to keep
up a little of her sister's discipline with the Lowries, and went over their lessons with them.
Tom used to bring to her the most puzzling questions, which she thought she ought to be able
to answer, and made great efforts to do so; but instead of the intellectual work refreshing
her after the sedentary needlework, she felt all the more exhausted by it. As for her poetry,
she appeared to be unable to write a line, and though she sometimes could read an old book,
she seemed quite unfit to pay attention to anything new.

She missed the long walks she had daily taken in Jane's pleasant company. It was not far from
Peggy's house to Mrs. Dunn's place of business, and it was a very monotonous walk. The white
regular houses, all of one size and height, with their thousands of windows exactly on the
same model, seemed always staring her out of countenance, and made her feel depressed even
in the early morning. She felt the keen piercing east winds of an Edinburgh spring as she had
never done at Cross Hall, where they were sheltered from them by a beautiful plantation of
trees; and the continued poor living and the hurried meals began to tell upon a constitution
naturally much less robust than Jane's, so that she began to look pale and thin, and coughed
a good deal, and lost her appetite.

With all these drawbacks she improved so much in taste and skill that Mrs. Dunn raised her
wages--or salary, as she genteelly called it--and put her at the head of the department in
which she so much excelled, so that she could not bear to give up her contribution to the little
fund that Jane was putting into the Savings Bank.

Miss Rennie had persuaded her mamma to try Mrs. Dunn's establishment, and had told that lady
that it was all on Miss Elsie Melville's account, so she often saw her and Laura Wilson there,
and made bonnets for both of them with her own hands; and the Chalmerses and Jardines had also
come to see how Elsie got on, and other people from the neighbourhood of Swinton. Elsie would
rather not have had dealings with so many old acquaintances, but Mrs. Dunn thought it was a
just reward for her kindness that she had this increase of custom.

One day, about four months after she had been engaged in this business, Miss Rennie and Miss
Wilson came in with most important-looking faces. While Miss Wilson was busied turning over
the fashion-books, her friend whispered to Elsie:

"It is really a case; Laura is engaged to Mr. Dalzell, your old friend and neighbour, and she
is going to give one of her wedding orders here. Mrs. Dunn should be greatly obliged to you,
for we never would have come to the house but for you. But this marriage amuses me a good deal.
I'm sure your sister was fifty times too good for him, and Laura and he will just suit each
other. He is very much attached to her fortune, and she will have it settled upon herself;
at least, papa will see that is done as tightly as she could wish, and Laura has a sharp eye
to number one, I can assure you. She is quite delighted at the idea of being married at eighteen,
to such a handsome man, of such a good family. Mrs. Dalzell has been to see us, and been so
gracious. After all, what better luck could she look for than to be married for her money?
with such a temper as she has, too. He certainly is handsome; but for my part, I would rather
have a man who is downright ugly than one who grins and bows like William Dalzell. I will be
quite glad when this affair is over. Lovers are very tiresome when one does not quite believe
in the love."

"Well, Laura dear, have you made up your mind about the dresses?" continued Miss Rennie, in
a louder voice.

"You had better go to Mademoiselle Defour about the dresses," said Elsie. "I must keep to my
own department."

"Oh, Laura wants your taste to help us to decide; you know better what suits than mademoiselle,"
said Miss Rennie.

"But I am going to be busy here," said Elsie, who never felt much disposed to wait on Miss
Wilson, and at this time less than ever; and she turned to an elderly lady, of a very pleasing
countenance, who, with a pretty girl of thirteen, entered the showroom at that moment.

"Oh, Miss Thomson," said Miss Rennie, shaking hands with the new comer, "how do you do? Are
you in Edinburgh just now? You must come to see mamma; she will be so disappointed if you leave
her out. Have you come to hear Dr. B----? He preaches for the last time in Edinburgh on Sunday."

"I am to be in Edinburgh for a few days," said Miss Thomson, "and will certainly call on your
mother."

"This is one of your nieces, I suppose?" said Miss Rennie.

"Yes, this is Grace Forrester, my youngest niece, who has been doing so well at school, and
been such a good girl altogether, that I must needs give her a new frock for a party she is
invited to next week, and get it fashionably made, too, no doubt."

"This is not the dressmaking-room--Miss Melville is the milliner. We must go to the next room
for Grace's frock," said Miss Rennie.

"But I am in want of a new cap and bonnet for myself, and I must teach Grace that old people
must be served first, and that young folks must wait with patience," said Miss Thomson, looking
very kindly on the girl. "Miss Melville can take my order, I suppose? You are the sister of
the young lady who called on me some time ago?"

"Yes, ma'am," said Elsie.

"I can see a very slight likeness. I was very glad to hear such good accounts of your sister
getting a situation with some rich colonial people in London; and I hear, too, that you are
a remarkably good hand in your own line, so I have come to ask you to make me a cap and a bonnet
that will keep on my head; and that is what I cannot get the fashionable milliner I have employed
so long to make me this year back."

"I can make to please Peggy Walker," said Elsie, smiling; "but you will wish for more style--a
compromise between fashion and comfort."

"With a decided leaning towards comfort," said Miss Thomson. "Are you still living with Peggy
Walker? An admirable woman she is, and one whom I have the greatest respect for; but does she
take good care of you? You look thin and ill."

"I am not very well, but Peggy is everything that is kind and careful. I have missed my sister,
sadly. I hope, however, to see her soon, for Mrs. Phillips has been so good as to ask me to
spend a few weeks in London, and Mrs. Dunn is going to spare me."

"Well, I am glad to hear it," said Miss Thomson, "for it seems to me you want a change and
a rest. Your cousin is making great alterations at Cross Hall."

"Alterations for the better," said Elsie. "He told us about them."

"Well, I'm not clear about the allotments; but the cottages I do most highly approve of, and
I am coming upon my landlord to build me eight or nine, after the same plan, as near as may
be. The Allendale cot-houses are very old, and I will never consent to have my workpeople as
badly lodged as they have been. If I asked for five hundred pounds to add to the farmhouse,
I would get it at once, for I am a good tenant; but my landlord demurred at such an expenditure
for cot-houses. I think I will carry my point, however."

"You know," said Miss Rennie to Miss Thomson, "of the new neighbour you are likely to get at
Moss Tower? Mamma wants to have a talk with you about Laura's marriage, as you know the Dalzells."

"Oh, yes, certainly, I'll call on your mother. I don't forget any of my cousins, though they
are a few times removed. But, dear me, Eliza, that poor girl Melville looks ill; the brae she
has had to climb has been owre stey for her. I must look in on Peggy Walker, and hear what
she says about her," said Miss Thomson, as they moved into mademoiselle's department and gave
orders about Grace's frock, while Miss Wilson looked over dresses, made and unmade, and received
hints and suggestions from any quarter she could.

Elsie wished that she could be out of the establishment before Miss Wilson's wedding order
came to it; so she was very glad when, after a longer day than usual, in which she had exercised
her utmost skill for Miss Thomson's behoof, and certainly pleased herself with her work, she
returned home and found Mr. Brandon sitting talking in his usual cheerful way to Peggy and
the old man.

Dr. Phillips had wished that Elsie should join her sister before she left Derbyshire, and spend
a week or so at his house, for he had been so delighted with Jane that he had a desire to become
acquainted with Elsie also; so that Mr. Brandon had come sooner than he had intended, and proposed
an early departure. Elsie looked so glad, so very glad to see him; expressed herself so grateful
to him for all the trouble he was taking for her; and after asking for Jane and the Phillipses,
began to inquire about his own relations, and how he had enjoyed his visit to Ashfield, with
so much interest, that Mr. Brandon thought her manner more pleasant than ever.

Chapter IV.

Elsie Refuses An Excellent Offer

Mr. Brandon had come home with the intention of marrying, and had flirted a good deal during
the six or eight months of his stay in England, but he had seen so many young ladies that one
had driven another out of his head. He thought he might have fallen in love with Miss Harriett
Phillips, who, though not very young, would in all other respects be very suitable, and who,
he had no doubt, would accept him; but still he could not manage to cultivate an attachment
strong enough to warrant such a desperate step as a proposal. Ever since he had seen Elsie
Melville at Mrs. Rennie's party, her face and form, and her pleasant voice with its Scotch
accent, recurred more frequently in his thoughts than those of any woman he had seen. Her elegance,
her gentleness, her sprightliness, had struck him at sight, and her forlorn condition was very
interesting. Her poetical talents, of which he had heard from Peggy, impressed him a good deal,
and the manner in which she had taken so industriously to the only means of earning a livelihood
open to her, though one which was so far beneath her, had certainly called forth his respect.

The sight of Elsie again, though in diminished beauty, revived all those sentiments of compassion
and protection that he had felt for her from first hearing of her misfortunes. Yes, he would
marry her, and then she would grow rosy and happy; and he would get her poems published at
his own expense, and have such a splendid copy for herself to lay on her drawing-room table--for
she should have a drawing-room at Barragong, and every comfort, and even luxury, that Victoria
in those days could afford. He never would be ashamed to take Elsie to see any of his friends
or relatives, for she was a gentlewoman born and bred. As for her being a milliner for the
present, it was only so much the more to be proud of.

These thoughts lay in Brandon's mind, and strengthened every day of his short stay in Edinburgh;
his strong-minded cousins thought Walter Brandon was more contemptible than ever, for he did
not seem to have an idea in his head; whereas it was because he had one idea very strongly
in his head and heart that he was so disinclined for argument or discussion. Peggy, who perceived
Brandon's evident admiration, again regretted her own burst of confidence in her autobiographical
sketch, but thought that now Miss Elsie was so downcast and so miserable, that she would never
think of refusing so excellent an offer as her old master could make. She began to praise Mr.
Brandon--to whose character, however, she never did full justice, from not understanding many
of its best points. She liked Mr. Phillips much better, who was graver. Her Scotch phlegmatic
temperament could not appreciate the fine spirit and unvarying good humour of Brandon, and
his random way of talking she thought flighty and frivolous. But yet she could, and did, praise
him for his kindness of heart and his want of selfishness, which he had shown on many occasions,
great and small, at Barragong. These panegyrics were bestowed with discretion, not being told
to Elsie herself, but brought out incidentally in conversation with grandfather, who thought
highly of Brandon, and never ceased to extol his politeness.

Elsie and Brandon had a railway carriage to themselves for a considerable part of the way;
and he thought he never could have a better opportunity of declaring himself; so, with rather
less stammering and hesitation than is usual on such occasions--for he had not the least doubt
of a favourable answer--he made Elsie understand that he loved her, and asked for her love
in return.

"No, no--oh, no!" said Elsie, covering her face with her hands.

"Why 'No,' Miss Alice? 'Yes' sounds a great deal prettier. I'll take such good care of you,
and I am sure you will like Australia. Peggy has not given you a very dismal account of Barragong,
and I have had it very much improved since her time, and I will have a great deal more done
to it; and before we go I will have your book printed----"

"My book," said Elsie; "what book?"

"Your poems--I know they are beautiful--Peggy told me about them; and we will have them brought
out in the very best style, and I will be so proud to think what a genius I have got for my
own darling."

Elsie sighed deeply; tried to speak, but could not. It was a good sign, Mr. Brandon thought--a
sigh was ten times more encouraging than a smile. He knew he had hit upon the right thing when
he had spoken of her poems; it was wonderful how discerning love had made him.

"You are mistaken, Mr. Brandon," said she with difficulty, scarcely daring to raise her eyes
to the level of his waistcoat; "I am no genius, and my poems are not worth printing--poor,
crude, empty productions. I believe I can make caps and bonnets, but that is all that I can do."

"That is only your opinion of yourself. But with my will, you shall make no more frippery of
the kind. It is quite beneath you."

"It is not beneath me to earn an honest livelihood."

"No; but it was cruel to make you have to do it. I have been so sorry for you all these months,
when Miss Melville told me how you were employed."

"Do not say anything more about your pity for me; it pains me."

"It is not pity; it is love," said he, stoutly.

"Love born of pity; that will die when--I mean if--but it cannot be; I never can be your wife--the
most unsuitable, the most wrong thing that I could do. Do not speak any more about it."

Elsie's real distress convinced Mr. Brandon of her sincerity, but it set him on a wrong scent.
There must be a rival; no doubt she must love some one else, or she would have given him a
hearing. It was not possible that a girl would prefer poverty, solitude, and a position like
that which she held at Mrs. Dunn's, to marriage with a good-looking, good-tempered fellow like
himself, who would deny her nothing, and who intended to be the kindest husband in the world--if
her heart was disengaged. Now poor Elsie was as heart-whole as a girl could be, but her manner
of refusing made him think of a number of little signs which looked as if she were the victim
of a hopeless attachment. Her sadness, her poetry, her little sighs, her diffidence, her pining
away, were all due to the shameful conduct of one who in happier days had sought her hand,
and had deserted her when fortune changed. His pity for her increased, but his love did not.
If she had the bad taste to prefer a sad memory to a living lover, she might do so. He did
not care to inquire as to the particulars of her unhappy love, even if he had thought it honourable
to do so. The truth is, that Mr. Brandon did not love Elsie very much, though he thought he
did so when he asked her. If she had said yes--if she had looked at him with grateful eyes,
and told him that she would try to do her best to make him happy, his love would have become
real, and would have surprised both himself and her by its strength and its steadiness. But
he had never dreamed of such a thing as a refusal, and he had hastened his proposal, not from
any feeling of insecurity, but from a desire to make Elsie very happy, and to do it as soon
as possible.

But he had been refused--positively refused. Elsie might have said more of the obligation to
him--might have been more grateful for the compliment which he had paid to her--Walter Brandon
thought it would have been graceful to do so; but she said nothing of the kind. She sat in
a rigid, painful silence till they reached the next station, where other passengers joined
them, and put an end to a TETE-A-TETE which was rather awkward for both parties. She felt that
she had given pain and mortification to a man who had meant well by her, and she did not dare
to open her lips in consolation or extenuation. She could not trust herself to speak; she would
not venture to renew any solicitation. Forlorn and humbled as she was, she felt that she was
in the greatest danger; that it was a tremendous bribe that was offered to her. She had Peggy's
story ringing in her ears, and thought of Peggy's insight and Peggy's courage. The weak and
facile Mr. Brandon was apt to fall in love, or to fancy that he did so, with any woman he came
in much contact with, and she was as unsuitable for him, even more unsuitable, than Peggy was.
The discipline of the last ten months had been too severe for her; it had crushed her spirit,
and injured her health. She felt alarmed about her cough, and recently had been thinking more
of the blessedness of an early death than the happiness of an early marriage. She felt herself
to be sickly, low-spirited, wanting in energy, no fit companion for any colonist, and especially
unfit to be the wife of a man of so little force of character. His offer appeared to her to
be rash and imprudent. What did he know of her to warrant him in risking his life's happiness
in such a way? But yet, though it was foolish in him to ask her, and though it would have been
very wrong in her to accept of him, she was grateful, so grateful. How little Walter Brandon
could guess how grateful she felt, when, after their journey was over, he took her cold, trembling
hand, and placed her in the carriage that was to take them to Dr. Phillips's.

"You seem afraid of me, Miss Alice," said he. "Do not think that I will say another word on
the subject, if it is painful to you. I know better than to persecute a woman with my addresses,
if I see she does not like them. But do you REALLY not like them?"

"No, I do not," said Elsie, abruptly. "You will see hundreds of other women who would suit
you far better than I could do."

"If you would only love me, I should be quite satisfied with your suiting me--but if you cannot,
there need be no more said about it."

Jane was engaged with her pupils when her sister arrived, and Mrs. Phillips, who had not been
very regular in her attendance at school lately, stayed in the room this morning in order to
see and remark upon Miss Melville's pretty sister. She could see little beauty in the sad face,
with the weary look about the eyes, and the lines round the mouth, that had been the result
of Elsie's real experience of life. The figure, Mrs. Phillips confessed to her husband and
to Mr. Brandon, was rather good, but wanted development; it was too much of the whipping-post
order. The Misses Phillips said they really thought Jane the better looking of the two girls,
for she had such a beautiful expression; while Mr. Phillips said that Elsie had fallen off
sadly since he saw her in Edinburgh at the new year. She had struck him then as being very
pretty, but he did not think so now, and, of course, in every other respect but personal appearance
she could not be compared with her sister. Dr. Phillips said he must have her examined about
her cough, for it should not be trifled with. He hoped that it had not been too long neglected.
All these remarks, coming immediately after his refusal by the object of them, made Brandon
somewhat reconciled to the circumstance, though if he had had a kinder answer, they would have
made no difference in his feelings towards Elsie, but would probably have made him love her
all the more.

When Harriett Phillips spoke in warm praise of Miss Melville's excellent understanding, and
her fine, open, intelligent, expression of countenance, he thought he never saw her own countenance
look so open or so attractive. He felt disposed to be consoled, and he was very sure that she
was quite willing to console him.

Jane saw much amiss with her darling sister at the first glance, but hoped that the change,
and Dr. Phillips's advice, which he had said would be at her service, and her own society,
would benefit Elsie greatly.

Elsie did not muster courage to tell Jane of the incident of the railway journey till they
had retired for the night.

"You know I could not answer otherwise, Jane; I did not love him; do not be angry with me,"
said Elsie, apologetically.

"Angry with you my dear child! No, I honour you," said Jane.

"You see Jane, I have been so unhappy, so ill, and so low-spirited, that I could easily have
snatched at an escape from this dreary life, and said I would marry him; but he would have
been so disappointed when he came to know me."

"You do not love him now, Elsie, but could you not have learned to love him? It is not to be
supposed that a girl has a ready-made attachment to be given to the first man who sees fit
to ask her; she must take a little time."

"But, Jane, though he has been very kind to us, you know--you remember Peggy, and what she
said about him?"

Jane nodded assent.

"I know I have been rude about it. I ought to have said much that I felt, but when girls say
such things they either give more pain afterwards, or get committed. Oh! Jane, tell me again
that I have been right."

"Right? yes," said Jane, thoughtfully. "Perhaps you ought to have a man of more fixed principles,
if he could be had. But Elsie, my darling, it is not who we ought to have in the world, but
who will have us; reflect that you may never have such an offer, or, indeed, another offer
of any kind, again. I do not mean to bias your judgment, my own dear sister. Only think--he
has, as you say, been very kind. He is not faultless; but who is? As for Peggy's story, that
was many years ago; and, so far as I can judge from our friends here, he bears an excellent
character. We should not condemn a man for life on account of something wrong done, or, as
in this case, only purposed, when very young, and in circumstances of temptation which you
and I, perhaps, can scarcely appreciate. He took Peggy's first answer in a right spirit, and
you can see how he respects her. All I have seen of him since I came to London, has disposed
me to think favourably of him. His temper is the finest in the world, I think."

"Finer than Francis'?" said Elsie, who knew her sister's very great regard for her cousin,
and never fancied she could think any man his superior in any point.

"Yes, sunnier than Francis'."

"But he is not half so clever or so cultivated," remonstrated Elsie.

"His cleverness lies in a different direction."

"I think him inferior to Francis in every way," said Elsie, "and that weighed with me in giving
my answer. You should think your husband the very best person you ever saw."

"Perhaps when he is your husband you may, but I fancy that a girl who has a good father and
brothers, does not at once give a man this preference when he asks for her hand. As I said
before, he is not faultless, but would not life with him be preferable to life as it is for
you now?"

"Don't, Jane; don't side with my cowardly self. To marry him, not loving him, as he perhaps
deserves to be loved--not honouring him as I know I should honour my husband--but merely because
I am miserable--how cruel to him, how base in myself! I know, besides, that he only pities
me. Oh! Jane, if it were only life with you I could bear it better, but I am so weary of that
workroom at Mrs. Dunn's, and of seeing people there whom I used to know, and getting a pitying
sort of recognition from them. The very girls in the workroom pity me, and Peggy pities me,
and even the children and their grandfather pity me. Oh! Jane, Jane, I am tired, tired to death
of all this pity. Nobody ever thought of pitying you in your hardest times; you could hold
up your head, and mine seems as if I never could raise it more. It must have been only pity
in Mr. Brandon's case--what did he know of me to make him love me?"

"Have you forgotten that you are a very sweet, charming girl, Elsie--that your eyes are both
bright and true--that your voice is pleasant, both in itself, and for the very pleasant things
you can say? My darling, you must not lose all pride in yourself in this way. I wish half the
offers of marriage that are made were founded on as much respect as Mr. Brandon felt for you.
Though he talked slightingly of your work at Mrs. Dunn's, do not fancy but that he honours
you for doing it. Besides, though he is not very literary, he may admire your talents. He meant
to please you by speaking about your poems."

"If he thinks I could be brilliant in society, or do him any credit in that way, he would be
sure to be disappointed, and what a terrible thing it must be to disappoint a husband! It is
not so much his deficiencies as my own, that weigh upon me. And, besides, Jane, I am not well;
I really think I am going into a consumption--the sooner the better, if it were not for you,
my dearest--and to marry any one with such a conviction, would be positively wicked."

"Oh, you are not going into a consumption, Elsie, I hope and believe," said Jane, as cheerfully
as she could. "Your apprehension of such a thing shows that you are in no danger. You will
see Dr. Phillips tomorrow morning, and get something to set you to rights. I am glad you are
joining us here, for the sake of his advice. I like him so very much, and I think him clever--perhaps
not naturally so acute as Dr. Vivian, but he has had a large practice so long, and so little
wedded to routine, and so willing to accept of any new light that can be thrown on medicine,
that his greater experience more than counterbalances his son's greater talent. And he is cheerful,
too; the sound of his voice, and even of his step, is like a cordial to the sick and the depressed,
I think. I know it does me a great deal of good, and it must benefit you."

"You are very happy here; honoured, and useful, and well paid," said Elsie.

"Oh! yes, dear; I have a great deal to be thankful for, and in time we will be able to be together
always. In the meantime your holiday must be enjoyed to the utmost."

So the sisters talked of their plans for the future, and of the routine of their past life,
as cheerfully as they could, and tried to banish Mr. Brandon from their thoughts. Elsie was
asleep first, and then Jane anxiously lay awake, weighing the probabilities about her health
and her recovery, and also thinking with approval, but certainly with regret, of Elsie's conscientious
refusal of so excellent an offer as she had that day received. Her own opinion of Mr. Brandon
had risen since she had known him better, and she believed that Elsie would have suited him
extremely well. She only hoped that he would not accept her sister's answer as final, at least,
if Dr. Phillips pronounced favourably on the subject of her health.

Chapter V.

Elsie Accepts Of A New Situation

When Dr. Phillips had asked Elsie a great number of questions on all sorts of subjects, that
seemed but remotely connected with the cough that she was so alarmed about--had sounded her
chest, and gone through the several forms of examination----

"Now," said she, "Doctor, tell me the truth; I am not at all afraid to hear it. I have no dread
of death; indeed, I rather desire it than otherwise."

"I am sorry to hear it, my dear girl; for I do not see any chance of it. There is nothing organic
the matter with you--nothing whatever--only a nervous affection that a little care will overcome.
You have been overworked and underfed. You have been out of doors only in the early morning
and the late evening, and have scarcely seen the sun for months. You have had a great deal
on your spirits, and been exceedingly dull. You have missed your excellent sister, and I do
not wonder at it. It would have been a miracle if you could have kept your health this unkindly
spring, with all these drawbacks. But you have nothing whatever alarming in your case."

"My dear Miss Melville," continued he, turning to Jane, "I assure you that your sister only
wants what she has come to England to obtain--change, cheerful society, sunshine, and generous
diet--to restore her to perfect health."

Elsie gave one sigh at this verdict.

"Do not think me ungrateful, Dr. Phillips; I should be thankful to be restored to health; but
life has been so hard for me lately, that I felt almost glad to think that, without any fault
of my own, God was going to take me away, and that Jane would join me by and by, when her work
was done. She is fit for the work she has got to do, and I appear to be so unfit for it. I
suppose we ought to love life----"

"It is a sign that one is out of health when one does not," said Dr. Phillips. "Your depression
of spirits is more physical than mental; but then it reacts upon your health. You used to be
cheerful before you left that place--what do you call it?--where my old friend Hogarth brought
you up."

"Yes, quite cheerful," said Elsie; "but things have gone very differently with me since."

"Well, you must regain your old spirits, if possible; and in the meantime, get on your bonnet
and have a little drive with me while Miss Melville is busy with her pupils. If you won't mind
a few stoppages, we will have a pleasant round, through as pretty a part of the country as
England can boast of."

Jane asked privately for Dr. Phillips's opinion, being sure that he gave Elsie his brightest
view of her case.

"There is nothing positively wrong with her at present, Miss Melville; but she has got into
such a low tone of health that she needs care. She must never return to such a life as she
has had lately; she must have a lighter employment, more open air, and better food."

"It is so difficult," said Jane, "to get employment. I am sure there are a thousand chances
against my finding such an excellent situation as I have with Mrs. Phillips."

"And a thousand chances against their meeting with such an excellent governess and housekeeper.
The pleasure is mutual, I am sure. I must see what your sister is fit for, when she is a little
stronger."

Both Elsie and Jane saw at once that Mr. Brandon was disposed to take Elsie's rejection as
a final decision, and that he would have no difficulty in transferring his attentions, if not
his affections to Miss Harriett Phillips. Elsie felt that she could not have been much admired
or loved, when he could so soon attach himself to a woman so very different from herself. Here
it certainly might be love without any mixture of pity. He made himself very agreeable, and
Miss Harriett was not so much flattered as gratified. All his homage was received by her as
her due; there were no quick flushes of pleasure or surprise at any little mark of kindness
or attention; no disclaiming of any compliment which was paid her as exaggerated or undeserved;
the smile of perfect self-complacency sat on her face, and gave ease to her every action and
every speech. She never hesitated in giving her opinion; she never qualified or withdrew it
when given. She knew herself to be perfectly well-informed and perfectly well-bred. She felt
herself to be Mr. Brandon's superior in every point--in natural ability, in education, in acquired
manner, in social position, and, of course, in moral character also, for she had no faith in
the goodness of the other sex. She saw many of their faults, and guessed at many more, and
she did not see or understand their virtues; and Brandon made no pretence to being particularly
good, and spoke slightingly of her favourite clergyman, who was rather too High Church in his
notions to please the latitudinarian ideas of an Australian bushman. Her connection with the
county Stanleys gave her a prestige that Mr. Brandon never could have, for his family were
only middle-class people, not at all intellectual or aristocratic. Her brother was astonished
to see how much more Georgiana and Harriett spoke of their relations by the mother's side,
who had never done anything for them, than those good uncles and aunts Phillipses, who had
invited them for the holidays, and given them toys and books without number; but all his laughing
at his sisters could not alter their views, and his own wife sided with the ladies, and was
very proud of her husband's aristocratic name and relations, though she had none of her own.

Though in all these respects Harriett Phillips was so much Mr. Brandon's superior, she was
disposed to accept of him when he asked her, as he was sure to do. It was so difficult for
her to meet with her equal, either social, intellectual, or moral; and a husband, even though
an Australian, began to be looked upon as a desirable thing at her time of life. And though
Brandon was not fascinated by her, though he was not interested in her, though he felt no thrill
in touching her hand, no exquisite delight in listening to her voice or her singing, he began
to feel that this was to be his fate, and that the quiet, pale girl who had refused him would
not make so suitable a wife for him as Harriett Phillips, after all.

He was somewhat astonished, however, when he heard from this last-named lady, about a week
after Elsie Melville's arrival, that her sister-in-law had engaged her services as lady's-maid.
A lady's-maid was what Mrs. Phillips had long desired to have, and now, when she saw Elsie's
excellent taste, both in dressmaking and millinery, she thought that with a few lessons in
hairdressing she might suit her very nicely, and it would be quite a boon to the poor girl,
whom Dr. Phillips had forbidden to return to her situation in Edinburgh.

Mr. Phillips, though he thought that a lady's-maid was rather beyond his circumstances and
his wife's sphere, hoped such good things from her associating constantly with two such women
as Jane and Elsie Melville, that he readily gave his consent. Elsie as readily agreed to serve
in this inferior capacity. The pleasure of being near her sister was not to be refused on account
of being so far subordinated to her. She was deeply impressed with her own inferiority, and
fell into her place at once.

Harriett Phillips could not help a slight sneer at her sister-in-law's assumption in this new
step towards gentility; but as she was going to London with the family, she had no doubt that
Elsie would be glad to be of service to her too, as she appeared to be very good-natured, and
willing to oblige a family who had been so very kind to her sister and herself. There were
so many things that were secured for Elsie by this arrangement which were imperatively necessary
for her health, that Jane submitted to it as the best possible under the circumstances, though
she feared that Mrs. Phillips would show to Elsie the caprice and bad temper which she dared
not show to herself. And in this she was not mistaken; for Elsie was so yielding and so diffident,
that her new mistress exercised a great deal of real tyranny over her, varied by fitful acts
of liberality and kindness. Peggy Walker opened her eyes very wide when she heard of both the
young ladies, whom she had been accustomed to look up to, being dependent in this way on Mrs.
Phillips, whom she had always looked down upon; but she knew that the sisters were together,
and that that was a happiness to both that outweighed many other drawbacks. She herself was
very much engrossed with the care of grandfather, who, as well as Elsie, had felt the ungenial
spring very trying, and who did not seem to rally as the season advanced; so she was thankful
that Elsie was otherwise bestowed than in her house of sickness.

Dr. Phillips had the satisfaction of seeing a considerable improvement in Elsie before she
left Derbyshire, and used to have her company in his morning drives to visit his patients,
when her pleasant conversation and winning manner made him ere long prefer her to her graver
and less pliant sister. He missed both the girls when they went to London, and even Dr. Vivian
paid Jane the compliment of regretting her society a little for a week.

Chapter VI.

A Letter From Australia For Francis, Which Causes Surprise In An Unexpected Quarter

A few weeks after the return of Mr. Phillips with his family, his sister Harriett, and our
friends Jane and Elsie to London, where the courtship, or rather dangling, of Mr. Brandon was
going on in the same uninteresting manner, but with no apparent jar to prevent its leading
to matrimony at last, Jane was surprised by the sight of her cousin Francis, who said he had
come to the metropolis, chiefly for the purpose of seeing her.

"I called at Peggy Walker's, before I left Scotland;" said Francis, "but the family write to
you so frequently that I suppose you know all the news. The old man is looking very ill, however;
I was quite struck by the change in his appearance. I do not think that situation healthy;
I feel very glad you and Elsie have both left it. How is Elsie getting on with Mrs. Phillips?"

"Tolerably--only tolerably. But her health is better--decidedly better."

"And you, Jane, you are looking much better than when I saw you in Edinburgh last."

"You have not written to me at such length about your cottages and your allotments as I expected,
Francis. I suppose you are too busy to have time to write, but now you have come; we can talk
over all these matters."

It had not been voluntarily, or without a great effort, that Francis had so much slackened
his close correspondence with Jane; but her letters were so cheerful, she seemed so busy and
hopeful, she saw so many people, and appeared to be so much appreciated by Mr. Phillips and
by all his family, that he had no hope of her allowing him to make the sacrifice he longed
to make, and he thought he must try to accustom himself to look on her as lost to him.

"I have been busy," said he, "but I do not attempt to excuse myself by such a reason. I have
not given you answers at all worthy of your letters."

"I have always thought that it is considered the great art in a gentleman's letter that he
should put a great deal of matter in few words, while a lady piques herself on making an excellent
letter out of nothing. If your letters were shorter than mine, they were not, on that account,
unsatisfactory," said Jane.

"Your observation of character and manners is so much more acute than mine, that you can see
and hear nothing which you cannot photograph faithfully, and make an interesting picture of,
and you seem to have interesting people to write about," said Francis.

"I do not think that if I had been at Cross Hall, and you in London, my letters would have
been the longest. Our old neighbours were very uninteresting--do you not find them so?"

"All except Miss Thomson, whose acquaintance I have recently made, and who has enough of originality
and goodness about her to give some salt to the district. She is much interested in both of
you; especially in Elsie, whom she saw at Mrs. Dunn's, and got to make something for her, which
has given the greatest satisfaction."

"I must tell this to Elsie," said Jane; "she needs a little praise, and it does her good."

"But I want first to consult you about a letter I received the day before I left home," said
Francis. This was his excuse for exposing himself to Jane's influence again. The thing might
have been done by letter, but he scarcely though it could be so well done; so he had first
seen Mr. McFarlane in Edinburgh, and then hastened to London to ask the advice of the dearest
friend he had in the world on the subject of this ill-written and ill-expressed letter. It
ran as follows:

"Melbourne, 20th April, 185-.

"My Dear Son Frank,

"I have heard that you are come into the property at last. I knew he could not keep it from
you, though he wanted to, for you was the hair, and had the rights to get it. I hope you will
not forget a mother that has always remembered you, though I was forced to part from you when
you was very little, so you will scarce know my face again. I would not stand in your light,
and it has turned out all right for you.

"I had an allowance of a hundred and fifty pounds a year from him as long as he lived, and
when it stopped I made some inquiry, and found that you had got Cross Hall and all that he
had. I think that I should have got some notice of his being dead, but I am quite used to being
neglected. I hope you will not let me be any poorer, but the contrary, for I have been a better
mother to you than many a one as makes more fuss. It was him as would not let me keep you,
and drove me away to Australia. I would come to see you now that he is out of the way, but
I cannot afford the expense. If I had not met with such ungrateful conduct from them as ought
to have provided for me, I might have been rich enuf; but it is a bad world, and the longer
I live, I see that it gets worse and worse. It will be for your advantage to keep friendly
with me, and at any rate you will do as much as your father did, which was little enuf, God
knows. But I expect as the baby that I loved so dear will be a good kind son to me now you
have come into the property.

"Address to Mrs. Peck, care of Henry Talbot, Esq., solicitor, ---- Street, Melbourne. I was
not allowed to keep my own name or to take his, and so everybody knows me by the name of Mrs.
Peck, but I am really and truly your afexionate mother.

"Elizabeth Hogarth."

"P.S. Send me an answer and a remittance by the first mail. I am very badly off and need money."

Jane read this letter twice over, and looked at the address and the postmark carefully.

"What do you think of it?" said he, anxiously.

"Have you asked Mr. McFarlane if he thinks this letter genuine?"

"He never saw any of Elizabeth Hogarth's writing. Any communication which my father received
from her, he must have destroyed at once."

"Did he know anything of the 150 pounds a year?"

"He thought it probable some money was paid to keep her at a distance, but did not know anything
as to how much it was, or when it was sent."

"Is there any trace in the banking transactions of my uncle of such a payment being remitted
regularly to Australia?"

"I can see nothing of the kind. I looked over some old books with that intention, but your
uncle's books were not by any means so minute and methodical as yours. He drew large sums and
did not record how he spent them, whereas your housekeeping books are models of accurate accounts.
I hope Mr. Phillips appreciates your talents in this line?"

"Quite sufficiently, I assure you. But with regard to this letter--what was Mr. McFarlane's
advice on the subject?" asked Jane.

"To take no notice whatever of it; for that it would only bring trouble and discredit on me
if she was no impostor, and be a very foolish thing if she was. He says that he had mentioned
to my father, when he was making his will, that in all probability the widow, if left out of
the will, would come upon the heir, and extort something very handsome from him; but that Mr.
Hogarth had said sternly that she could not do it, for she had not a scrap of evidence that
she dared bring forward to prove that she had ever been his wife. That he had no objection
to provide handsomely for me, for I had proved that I was worthy of it; but for her, she had
been a thorn in his side all his life; that he had done all for her that he meant to do, and
all that she expected him to do. This made Mr. McFarlane think that he had given her a sum
of money to get rid of her claims, and not a yearly allowance. She had certainly parted with
me for money, and took no further care for my happiness. Mr. McFarlane never told me this before,
but he wished to put me on my guard about this letter."

"My uncle, certainly, must have been a good deal excited when he made his will," said Jane.

"Mr. McFarlane says he certainly was so, and has no doubt he would have altered it had he lived
a little longer--provided you had not married Mr. Dalzell, which was his great fear for you."

"Do you feel disposed, then, to answer this letter, or to prosecute any inquiries?"

"The whole affair is full of such unmitigated bitterness," said Francis, "that I shrink from
stirring it up; but yet I certainly ought to know if this woman is my mother or not. Should
not I, Jane? I rely on your judgment."

"It is your affair, Francis, not mine. I can scarcely dare to advise."

"What would you do under such circumstances?"

"I cannot tell what, with your character, I would do under such circumstances," said Jane.

"But with your character, which is a thousand times better than mine, my dear Jane? Only think
for me. Things have been taken so much out of my hands by this detestable will, that I seem
to lose the power of judging altogether on any matter that relates to it. I cannot aid when
I most wish to do it. My father did not positively forbid me to assist my mother. I suppose,
if he had done so, it would have raised as vehement a desire to that course of action as I
now feel to oppose all his other prohibitions."

The expression of Francis' face was earnest--almost impassioned--as it turned towards Jane.
She felt now that there was a reason for his apparent coolness--a reason that made her heart
beat fast and her eyes fill. She did not speak for a few moments till she felt that her voice
would not betray her, and then said:

"Since you ask my advice, I will give it, such as it is. I think I should in your circumstances
make some inquiries; and you have come to the place where you are most likely to have them
answered. I dare say Mr. Phillips knows Mr. Talbot, for I have heard his name in conversation;
and if you have no objections to telling him about this letter, he could write--or, better
still, Mr. Brandon, who talks of returning very soon, could make personal inquiries about this
Mrs. Peck. It is quite possible she may be an impostor; for a good deal has been said in the
newspapers about your inheriting Cross Hall, and she evidently has not got the right account
of the story. She supposes you get it as heir-at-law, and not by will. It is an easy way of
extorting money, to give out that one is a near relation of yours, and especially one of whom
you have cause to be ashamed. Her story of a yearly allowance does not agree with Mr. McFarlane's
impression either; but that may be policy--not positive unfounded fabrication. The orthography
of this letter is not good; but the expressions are more like vulgar English than Scotch. Your
mother's name was Scotch; and it was, at all events, a Scotch marriage. Will you speak to Mr.
Phillips on this subject. He is kind, sensible, and discreet."

"Yes, I will. You think I ought to do so?"

"He is at home just now. Suppose I ask him to come to see you?"

Francis agreed, and was pleased with the kind reception which Jane's employer gave to him,
as her cousin. He praised Miss Melville very highly, and said that in every point of view she
was a treasure in his house. He then gave slighter praise to Elsie; but still spoke very feelingly
of the position of both girls.

After a few such remarks, Francis asked Mr. Phillips if he knew Mr. Talbot, a solicitor in
Melbourne.

"Yes, by sight and by reputation very well; but he was not a personal acquaintance of mine.
Mr. Brandon was a client of his, and so was Peggy Walker; they could give you any information
about him you might require."

"I suppose it is of no use asking you such a question--but do you know anything of a woman
called Mrs. Peck--Elizabeth Peck, a client of----?"

The expression of Mr. Phillips's face stopped Francis' hesitating disclosure.

"Have nothing to do with her," said he--"a bad one, if ever there was one on this earth. Good
Heavens! what am I to hear next?"

"She says she is my mother," said Francis.

"Perhaps it is not the same woman," said Mr. Phillips. "Your mother! that must be a very old
story; you look to be forty, or thereabouts. It must be a different person."

The trouble of Mr. Phillips's manner was undergoing some improvement. He walked across the
room two or three times, and then said more steadily:

"Has she written to you? Would you let me see the hand writing?" The address was in a different
hand from the letter itself, so Francis could not but show Mr. Phillips the body of the letter.

"May I read it? It is a delicate matter, I know; but I will be secret--secret as the grave."

Mr. Hogarth assented, and Mr. Phillips read the letter through, and then returned it.

"She says she is your mother, and for this very reason I believe she is not, for if ever there
was a woman possessed with the spirit of falsehood, she is that woman. Mr. Hogarth, take no
notice of her--do not answer her letter--send her no money; she is not so poor as she represents
herself to be. I am glad you asked me about her, and no one else."

"Who is she? what is she?" was rising to Francis' lips, but the sight of Mr. Phillips's evident
suffering checked his questions. After a short pause, he said that Miss Melville had advised
him to consult Mr. Phillips.

"Good God! did you say anything about this to Miss Melville?" said Mr. Phillips.

"Yes, I did! I came to consult her on the letter, but it will go no further; let us call her
back. Where is she?" said Francis.

"In the drawing-room," said Mr. Phillips, ringing the bell violently, "with Mrs. Phillips and
Harriett, and Brandon, who has just come in. Alice is out on some errand, I believe; so that
Miss Melville cannot speak to her, and she surely will not speak on your private matters to
my wife and sister."

Jane was soon brought back to the breakfast-room, in which she had left her cousin with Mr.
Phillips, and was surprised at the disturbed looks of both gentlemen.

"Mr. Hogarth has asked me about a person in Melbourne, whom I know to be an arrant cheat and
liar. Her assertions in this letter are, no doubt, false; it is in keeping with her character
that they should be so. He will take no further notice of the matter; and I hope and trust
that her name will never pass your lips even to your sister, while under my roof, or even after
you have left it. Mr. Hogarth, you will do us the honour to dine with us to-morrow, at half
past six? Mrs. Phillips and I will be most happy to see you"--and so saying Mr. Phillips hurriedly
left the room, leaving Jane and Francis in the greatest bewilderment.

"I am not so sure that this Mrs. Peck is not my mother, for Mr. Phillips's opinion of her is
exactly the same as my father's; but I think I will inquire no further. If inquiry is to grieve
and annoy the best friend you have ever had, I will ask no questions. She may write again when
she finds she gets no answer, and bring forward something more tangible than these vague allegations.
But is this Mr. Phillips a passionate or vindictive man?"

"Quite the contrary. I never saw him agitated in this way before. He is of a remarkably easy
temper--most indulgent to those around him."

"He is kind both to you and to Elsie?"

"Very kind indeed, and very considerate. If Mrs. Phillips were as much so, we would both be
very comfortable indeed," said Jane.

"Does she show you any temper?" asked Francis.

"No, she dares not do it; for I am useful, and save her much trouble, and I have so much confidence
in myself that I will not be interfered with; but poor Elsie is so diffident, so humble, so
anxious to please, that she is constantly imposed on by an ignorant, thoughtless woman. Every
one imposes on Elsie. Miss Phillips is inconsiderate, too, though she should know better. The
servants impose on her, and the children, too--though she is so fond of the children, that
I think on the whole they do her good."

"Do not you find that Elsie being here in such a capacity makes your superintendence of the
servants more difficult?" asked Francis.

"Yes; I require to be more circumspect and more firm; but my life is quite easy, compared to
hers. If I could only restore Elsie to that moderately good opinion which she used to have
of herself in her more prosperous days, a great grief would be taken off my heart. I am the
strongest, why should not I have the most to bear?"

"Have you tried her poems in London personally?"

"I have, but without success, and she has quite lost the wish to have them published. Your
good opinion of her verses only gave her a little temporary encouragement."

"She writes none now, I suppose?"

"She has no time even if she had the inclination. Mrs. and Miss Phillips keep her so busy that
I have difficulty in getting her out in the middle of the day to join me and the children in
our walk or drive; but that the doctor insisted on as absolutely necessary, and I will not
allow her to be deprived of it. He took quite a fancy to Elsie, and showed her much kindness.
You ought to go to see him for your father's sake. But as to Elsie's poetry, she does nothing
in this way except improvising to the children in the evening, as she is sitting at work. When
they found out that she could, as they said, 'make verses up out of her own head,' they think
all their stories should be transferred into ballads, and either said or sung to them. They
are honest in their admiration of the talent, but rather exacting in their demands for its
exercise; on the whole, I think, however, that it does her good, and I know the children are
fonder of her than of me. I am so glad to see her preferred."

"Do you see much of Mr. Brandon? Could not he restore your sister to the self-appreciation
so essential to happiness and contentment?"

Jane shook her head. "He is devoting himself to Miss Phillips, and Elsie scarcely ever sees him."

"One consequence of her taking this situation," said Francis, somewhat impatiently. "I fancy
he admired her when I saw him at Peggy Walker's, months ago, and that he only wanted to be
more in her society to have the impression deepened. Did you not think so?"

"His admiration went a little way, but not far," said Jane.

"Not so far as to lead to a proposal?" said Francis.

"People are generally far gone before they reach that point," said Jane, hoping to escape thus
from a rather searching question; but a look from Francis, very sad, yet very pleasing to herself,
made her change the subject altogether. She liked to believe that she was very dear to him;
they could never marry; there was far too much to forbid it--duty, interest, near relationship.
Francis' life and career were too important to be tacked to any woman's apron-strings, even
though that woman was herself, and the plans she had so much delighted in she could see worthily
carried out. She would not be the hindrance and stumbling-block to any good life, and least
of all to his. But, until he met with a woman to be his wife and helpmate, she rejoiced to
feel that she was first in his heart. When that event took place, as it ought to do before
long, she would of course retire to a second and inferior position; but it was something to
rest in with pleasure, that if it had been right and expedient, she would never have been displaced.

Sometimes mere possibilities--thoughts of what might have been--give very precious memories
to cheerful tempers; while to those who are of a sad nature, they only enhance the gloominess
of the present. Jane was not so cowardly as to let Francis see that she regretted anything
for herself, and she proceeded to tell of her handsome salary, and how small her expenses had
been, so that she was saving money; that Alice's salary would be equal at least to what she
had at Mrs. Dunn's; and that the twenty-four pounds a year which he was allowed to give them
was added to their savings; so that they were really making up a little hoard to begin business
with Peggy when she left Scotland for Melbourne. She spoke of her money matters with frankness
and confidence, and her cousin could not but see that she had now reasonable hope of prosperity.

They had had a very long conversation before Elsie came in. She had had a number of troublesome
commissions to execute, and had been detained beyond expectation, but had acquitted herself
to Mrs. Phillips's satisfaction, and now came in with a little glow of pleasure on her face
to meet her cousin, to feel the warmth of his affectionate greeting, to have a little talk
about books and poetry, to refresh her for her monotonous and uninteresting daily work. Nothing
was said about the letter Francis had received, and Jane and he seemed desirous to banish it
from their memory.

Chapter VII.

Harriett Phillips Does A Little Bit Of Shopping, Which Is Somewhat Fatal To Her Projects

Among other purchases which Elsie had made on the day of Francis' arrival, were the materials
for a bonnet for Mrs. Phillips, which she had chosen, and which, as she was busily engaged
in making up, so much excited Harriett's admiration, that she was seized with a desire to have
one like it immediately, only that hers must be of a different colour, and a little modified
in shape, to suit her different complexion and contour of face. On the following morning, as
she was going out shopping herself, she asked Elsie to accompany her, to give her the benefit
of her taste on this as well as some other purchases. Mr. Brandon was asked if he was not going
down Regent Street? He said he was, and he would be very happy to go with Miss Phillips--as
he had nothing particular to do, and Phillips was out, and Jane had the children at their lessons,
and he did not find it amusing to be left TETE-A-TETE with Mrs. Phillips.

Miss Harriett was quite unaware of her own weakness, or she never would have asked a lover
to go with her in a draper's shop. Elsie had seen something of Mrs. Phillips's unreasonableness
and unscrupulousness, but this was the first time she had been with her sister-in-law, and
she did not expect from a young lady of such professed good principles, and good-nature, such
an utter abnegation of these excellent qualities in dealing with tradespeople. She blushed
for her companion, who did not blush for herself. She herself chose quickly, with the certain
judgment of a fine taste and a practised eye; but what she fixed on as most suitable for Miss
Phillips's complexion and style, was not always of a suitable price. When driven from the expensive
to something cheaper, then it was shabby and not fit to wear. Miss Phillips had come out determined
to get as good things as possible, and to pay as small a price as possible for them; she would
not be put off with an inferior article, and yet she was not willing to give the value of a
superior. Elsie, who had herself waited on ladies of this character, and felt her body ache
all over from the fatigue of being civil to them, was sorry for the shopmen, who fetched out
box after box, and displayed article after article, without anything being exactly the thing
which their customer wanted; while Walter Brandon stood beside the two ladies, finding it harder
than ever to feel sentimental about Harriett Phillips.

Leigh Hunt recommends men to choose their wives in drapers' shops; for if a woman is conscientious,
reasonable, and expeditious there, he thinks a man may be sure she will be fit for all the
duties of life. But perhaps his test is too severe for general use, for many of the best of
wives and mothers, the kindest of friends, and the most pious of Christians, are very far from
appearing amiable under circumstances of such great temptation. The obsequious manners of British
shopmen, who never show any spirit or any resentment, tend to lull conscience, while the strife
between the desire for display and style, and the love of money, makes many women at once fastidious
and unscrupulous. To Brandon, Harriett Phillips's conduct appeared ill-bred and mean; he could
not help contrasting her with Elsie Melvlle, and acknowledging that the latter was the real
gentlewoman. He began also to observe a certain imperiousness in Harriett's manner to Elsie
herself, which struck him as being particularly ungraceful, and the old pity began to reawake
the old love. He had sometimes wished to speak to Alice just a few words to show that he had
not been offended or piqued at her refusal, but never had had any opportunity, and on this
occasion Miss Harriett did not seem disposed to give him any.

At last, after being in several shops, and turning over innumerable boxes of ribbons, laces,
blondes, flowers, &c., all was purchased that was required, and even Miss Phillips was perfectly
satisfied with the selection she had made.

"Oh, dear!" said she, looking at her watch, "how late it is! I quite intended to be in time
for luncheon, for we started so early. Morning is always the best time for shopping--at least,
I find I am better attended to then. But we are too late, and Mrs. Phillips will not wait for
us. We had better have something to eat here, for I am very hungry--so, Mr. Brandon, I trust
you to find some place where we can make a comfortable luncheon; I have no doubt you know the
best restaurateur, and afterwards you will get us a cab to go home in. I like to make gentlemen
useful when I take them shopping with me."

"I am quite at your service," said Brandon, "for, as I said before, I have nothing particular
to do."

"That is taking all the grace out of your gallantry," said Miss Phillips, "but if you acquit
yourself well, I will forgive you that impolite speech."

Brandon did as he was desired--took the ladies to a fashionable restaurateur's, asked them
what they would like, and ordered and paid for a very good and very expensive luncheon. Then
he brought a cab, and accompanied them home.

"I really wish my brother could keep a carriage of his own," said Miss Phillips. "That is one
of the few extravagances I quite sympathize with Mrs. Phillips in her desire for. It is so
disagreeable to have to trust to these hired conveyances. One does not know who may have been
in them before, and might catch fever or something of that kind."

"Perhaps one might," said Brandon, "though it never entered my head to think of such disagreeable
things. But then I have never been accustomed to ride in a carriage of my own. Riding on horseback
was my only means of locomotion at Barragong; and Melbourne, up to this time, has no such luxury
for ordinary people as a hackney-coach stand, so that I cannot help being surprised at the
cheapness and convenience of cabbing it in London. Whereas both of you ladies have been accustomed
to private carriages, and must feel this very inferior."

"Oh, Alice! by the by, so you were, I suppose," said Miss Phillips.

"I preferred riding on horseback in those days," said Elsie; "but I think the drives with Dr.
Phillips, lately, were the most delightful things I ever had in my life. After being quite
debarred from anything but walking so long, I feel this hackney-coach really luxurious, I assure
you."

"The drives in Derbyshire did you good, Miss Alice; you are looking better than when you came
down," said Mr. Brandon.

"Oh! much better," said Miss Phillips. "Papa said it was all nonsense her being so alarmed
about her health; but, both she and Miss Melville were a little frightened--London suits her
better than Edinburgh. I have not heard you cough, Alice, for a week or more."

"Yes, my cough is quite gone," said Elsie; "and I have much better spirits."

"But, by the by," said Miss Phillips, "I really want my bonnet to go out with tomorrow. Your
London smoke is dreadfully destructive. I had no idea that mine was so bad till I put it on
this bright day, and really it looks too shabby to wear, though I had intended to make it last
another month. At home it would have looked better after three months' wear than it does after
three weeks here. You know, Mrs. Phillips promised you should have it ready for me to go to
the exhibition of pictures tomorrow, by middle day," continued she.

"I fear," said Alice, "that I cannot get it done in time, for we have been so much longer in
Regent Street than I expected, and it will be nearly dinnertime before we get home; and Mr.
Phillips insists, that as my cousin Francis is to dine with you today, I should be of the party."

"Indeed!" said Harriett, "and so you cannot finish my bonnet in time--it is a great disappointment
to me."

"Mr. Phillips would not allow me to refuse, I know; and Jane, too, is anxious for me to have
a talk with Francis."

"And you would like it yourself, too?" said Mr. Brandon.

"Yes, very much indeed," said Elsie, honestly.

"I will be glad to have the chance of seeing you. By the by, Phillips forgot to ask me; but
I will forgive him, and invite myself."

"Oh! you need not stand on ceremony," said Harriett; "you are in the habit of coming in and
going out of the house like one of ourselves; but really, Alice, are you sure you could not
do my bonnet for me? There is so little work on the bonnets now-a-days, and you might have
it done by two o'clock. Is not that the hour you appointed, Mr. Brandon?"

"Yes; or say half-past," said Brandon.

"Well, by half-past two. I am sure you have made bonnets in a greater hurry at your Edinburgh
house of business often enough. I have seen how very quick you are. I quite wondered at the
rapidity with which you got on with Mrs. Phillips's."

"But that is not finished," said Elsie, "and I promised it for the same hour to go to the Exhibition.
I am very sorry, indeed, Miss Phillips; but, unless you can induce Mr. Phillips to excuse my
appearance at dinner, I cannot possibly do it for you."

"Oh! very well," said Harriett, coldly; "I have a bonnet to wear, though it really is rather
shabby; and Mrs. Phillips takes such pains to have everything fresh and fashionable, that I
am sadly thrown into the shade. What a sum of money she contrives to spend every year on herself!
but my brother is so exceedingly easy and indulgent, he denies her nothing. Don't you think
her dreadfully extravagant, Mr. Brandon? I should be ashamed to spend money as thoughtlessly
as she does. She does not care what she pays for a thing if it takes her fancy. Now, my bonnet
will not cost two-thirds of what hers has done, and it will look quite as pretty, will it not,
Alice?"

"A little different in style, but quite as well," said Elsie.

"You see, Mr. Brandon, that if I have seemed to take a great deal of trouble over my purchases,
it has been for some purpose. One cannot economize without some thought being bestowed upon
such things as these."

Mr. Brandon could not but assent, but the act of politeness COSt him an effort.

"Then you come to dine with us today, to meet this Mr. Hogarth? Do you know, I have a great
curiosity to see him. His father and papa being such old friends, long ago, gives me quite
an interest in him; and the extraordinary story of his succession to his Scotch property is
so romantic. What is he like--is he presentable?"

"He was quite the rage in Edinburgh when I was there, about the new year--a reading man, and
a man of considerable taste--just your sort, in fact. He is a great friend of Miss Melville's,
though I fancy, Miss Alice, that you do not care so much for him."

"I like him very much indeed, though I was longer in doing him justice than Jane was. The circumstances
of our first introduction were very painful," said Elsie.

"If he is a friend of your sister's, that is quite enough for me," said Harriett. "I do not
think I ever met with any one so congenial to my tastes as Miss Melville is. Ladies are so
superficial nowadays; their education is all for show, and nothing solid or thorough in it.
My dear father was so careful to give us a thoroughly good education. It is very seldom that
we meet with any one so well grounded as Miss Melville is. It is a good thing for my nieces
that Stanley met with her. Your uncle MUST have meant that you should teach, Alice."

"Did Dr. Phillips mean that you should teach?" said Brandon, bluntly.

"No, no, certainly; but Miss Melville has learned so much that is quite valueless except in
teaching--oh! a great many things quite out of the way; but I meant that the groundwork was
the same. Poor Alice! all this odd training was thrown away on you."

"Not thrown away," said Brandon, firmly. "If it were not for Miss Alice's diffidence she would
soon let you know how much she has profited by it. You should hear Peggy Walker on that subject."

"I am quite charmed with the estimation in which both you and my brother hold that wonderful
woman," said Miss Harriett, condescendingly. "Stanley is quite enthusiastic about Peggy."

"And so am I, and with as good reason. Your brother owes her much, but I think I owe her more."

"More!" said Harriett; "oh! I see. Peggy nursed and saved the lives of Emily and little Harry,
and perhaps of Mrs. Phillips, too, and my brother is greatly indebted to her; but I suppose
she nursed your precious self through an illness all but mortal, so you are still more grateful.
I know that you gentlemen think a great deal of number one. I understand the thing clearly."

Walter Brandon paused a minute. "No, it is not that, Miss Phillips; but Peggy raised my opinion
of all women. Her courage, her devotion, her self-denial, and her truthfulness made me think
more highly of all her sex; and if ever I am blessed with a wife she will have cause to cherish
the memory of that homely Scotchwoman."

"To think that a gentleman who had a mother and sisters, should need such a lesson from a woman
like Peggy," said Harriett, incredulously.

"One's mother and sisters are always looked on as exceptional people--placed like saints in
a consecrated shrine," said Brandon; "but here was a woman with no particularly careful training
or education, battling with the world alone and unprotected, and doing always the right thing
at the right time, and in the right way--and truly she has her reward. Those orphan children
will rise up and call her blessed, and if she has no husband to do it, her own works will praise
her in the gates."

"I did not think that you knew as much of your Bible as to be able to make so long a quotation,"
said Miss Phillips, who could not understand or sympathize with Brandon's enthusiasm; but Elsie
fully appreciated this generous and well-deserved tribute to Peggy's character. She saw now
that she had been too rash in her rejection of her only lover. It was only now that she had
lost him for ever that she had discovered the real goodness of his character; but she was pleased,
very much pleased to find out that Peggy's conduct had been understood and admired by Mr. Brandon,
and had done him such excellent service. To think him worthy was delightful, even though she
should never see anything more of him henceforward. The colour rose to her cheek and the lustre
to her eye, and when Brandon's glance met her bright face, he could not help confessing that
she was very pretty, let the Phillipses say what they pleased, and the idea of having a little
conversation with her in the evening was much more agreeable to him than Harriett would have
at all approved of.

Chapter VIII.

Francis Makes A Favourable Impression On Harriett Phillips

With all Harriett Phillips's success in society she had never had much admiration from the
other sex. This she did not attribute so much to anything as to her own superiority; it really
wanted a great deal of courage for an average mortal to propose to her. Her unconscious egotism
had something rather grand in it; it was rarely obtrusive, but it was always there. Her mind
was naturally a vigorous one, but it had moved in a narrow channel, and whatever was out of
her own groove, she ignored. She appreciated whatever Jane Melville knew that she was herself
acquainted with, but whatever she--Harriett Phillips--was ignorant of, must be valueless. Now
a comfortable opinion of oneself is not at all a disagreeable thing for the possessor, and
kept within due bounds it is also a pleasant thing to one's friends and acquaintances. Brandon
had been disposed to take Harriett Phillips at her own valuation, and to consider her very
superior to himself in many things; while she liked him, for his attentions gave her importance;
and though he wearied her sometimes, she could make up her mind to pass her life with him without
any feeling of its being a great sacrifice. But he must stay in England; all his talk of returning
to Victoria was only talk; her influence would be quite sufficient to induce him to do that.
Though her heart was, in this lukewarm way, given to Mr. Brandon, she had a great curiosity
to see this Mr. Hogarth, whom Brandon had called, in his rather vulgar colonial phraseology,
"just her sort". She laid herself out to please the new comer; and Brandon was disposed to
take offence--and did so. The events of the morning had made an impression on him; but if she
had possessed the tact which sympathy and imagination alone can give, she might have appeased
him, and brought him back to his allegiance. She did not guess where the shoe pinched, and
she still further estranged the lover she had been secure of. She was charmed at the idea of
making him a little jealous; it was the first opportunity she had ever had of flirting with
another person in his presence, and the flirtation was carried on in such a sensible way that
there was not a word said he had a right to be offended with. She only talked of things about
which Brandon knew very little, and Mr. Hogarth a great deal, and she thought she was convincing
both gentlemen of her great conversational powers. It was really time Brandon should be brought
to the point, and this was the way to do it. While Brandon felt the chains not of love, but
of habit, dropping off him, and wished that Elsie Melville was beside him, and not sitting
between her cousin and another Australian, who was talking to her vigorously on his favourite
subject of spirit-rapping and table-turning, and she was listening so patiently, and making
little smart speeches--he could tell quite well by the expression of her eyes, though he could
not hear the low sweet voice distinctly enough to tell exactly what she said. He recollected
the party at Mrs. Rennie's, and how pleasant her voice was; and felt Harriett Phillips's was
not at all musical, at least, when she was talking about the fine arts and tomorrow's exhibition
to Mr. Hogarth; while Francis wondered at any one presuming to have so much to say while his
cousin Jane was in the room.

"Now, as to table-turning, Mr. Dempster," said Harriett, who fancied she saw Brandon's eyes
directed to that side of the table a little too often, "you will never convince me there is
an atom of truth in it. I am quite satisfied with Faraday's explanation. You may think you
have higher authority, but I bow to Faraday."

"Faraday's explanation is most insufficient and most unsatisfactory; it cannot account for
things I have seen with my own eyes," said Mr. Dempster.

"But to what do all these manifestations tend?" asked Jane. "Of what value are the revelations
you receive from the so-called spiritual world?"

"Of infinite value to me," said Mr. Dempster, "I have had my faith strengthened, and my sorrows
comforted. We do want to know more of our departed friends--to have more assurance of their
continued existence, and of their continued identity than we have without spiritualism. I always
believed that nothing was lost in the divine economy; that as matter only decayed to give way
to new powers of life, so spirit must only leave the material form it inhabits to be active
in a new sphere, or to be merged in the One Infinite Intelligence. But this is merely an analogy--a
strong one, but only an analogy, which cannot prove a fact."

"But, Mr. Dempster, I think we have quite sufficient grounds for believing in immortality from
revelation. In scientific matters, I bow to Faraday, as I said before; in religious matters,
I would not go any further than the Bible. But if that does not satisfy you, of course you
must inquire of chairs and tables," said Miss Phillips, with a condescending irony, which she
thought very cutting.

"The Bible is indistinct and indefinite as to the future state--so much so that theologians
differ on the possibilities of recognition in heaven," said Mr. Dempster. "Now, eternal existence
without complete identity is not to me desirable. That our beloved ones no longer have the
warm personal interest in us which they felt in life--that they are perhaps merged in the perfection
of God, or undergoing transmigration out of one form of intelligence to another, without any
recollection of what happened in a former state, is not consoling to the yearning human heart
that never can forget, and with all the sufferings which memory may bring, would not lose the
saddest memory of love for worlds. This assurance of continued identity is what I find in spiritualism;
and it meets the wants of my soul."

"What extraordinary heathenish ideas!" said Miss Phillips, who in her Derbyshire retreat had
never heard anything of pantheism, or of this doctrine of metempsychosis as being entertained
by sane Englishmen. "If you have such notions, I do not wonder at your flying to anything;
for my part, I have never been troubled with doubts."

"The Bible is, I think, purposely indistinct on the subject of the future life," said Elsie.
"Each soul imagines a heaven for itself, different in some degree from that of any other soul;
but to me memory and identity are so necessary to the idea of continued existence that I cannot
conceive of a heaven without it."

"I do not know," said Mr. Dempster, shaking his head. "Till I saw these wonderful manifestations,
I had no clear or satisfactory feeling of it, and now I have. The evidence is first hand from
the departed spirits themselves, and their revelations are consistent with our highest ideas
of the goodness of God, and of the eternal nature of love."

"'That which is seen is not faith,' St. Paul says, and the very minuteness of your information
would lead me to doubt its genuineness," said Francis. "I do not think it was intended that
we should have such assurance; but that we should have a large faith in a God who will do well
for us hereafter as he has done well for us here. But though I may not feel the need of such
assurance, I do not deny that others may. There is much that is very remarkable about these
spiritual manifestations;--whether it is mesmerism, or delusion, or positive fraud, I think
it is a remarkable instance of the questioning spirit of the day, unsatisfied with old creeds
and desirous of reconstructing some new belief."

"I should like you to come to a seance" said Mr. Dempster, glad to find some one who was disposed
to inquire on the subject. He had only recently become a convert, and was very anxious to induce
others to think with him. "I am quite sure that you will see something that will impress you
with the reality of the manifestations."

"I should like to go too," said Mrs. Phillips.

"I certainly should not," said Harriett. "I think these things are quite wicked."

"These questions have never given me any trouble," said Mr. Phillips, "and to my mind, Mr.
Dempster, the revelations, such as I have heard at least, are very puerile and contemptible;
but that there must be a singular excitement attending even an imaginary conversation with
the dead I can easily believe, and I do not care for exposing myself to it."

"Nor I," said Brandon; "as Miss Alice says, I have got my own idea of heaven, and I am satisfied
with it. I think we are not intended to know all the particulars."

Why did Brandon, in giving no original opinion of his own (poor fellow, he was incapable of
that), give Elsie's argument in preference to hers? Miss Phillips felt still more inclined
to be agreeable to Mr. Hogarth from this slight to herself, and began to think that an inquiring
spirit, in a man at least, was more admirable than Brandon's lazy satisfaction with things
as they are at present.

Mr. Dempster's eagerness after a possible convert was only to be satisfied by Francis making
an appointment with him to attend a seance on the following evening in his own house. And then
the conversation changed to politics--English, foreign, and colonial--in which Francis and
his cousins were much interested.

Mr. Dempster was rather an elderly man, who had lost his wife and all his family, with the
exception of one daughter, who was married and settled in South Australia. Though so enthusiastic
a believer in spiritualism, he was a very shrewd and well-informed man in mundane matters.
He had been a very old colonist on the Adelaide side; and, having been a townsman, had taken
a more active part in politics than the Victorian squatters, Phillips and Brandon. They were
all in the full tide of talk about the advantages and disadvantages of giving to their infant
States constitutional government, and allowing each colony to frame its constitution for itself.
The good and evil effects of manhood suffrage and vote by ballot Francis for the first time
heard discussed by people who had lived under these systems, and English, French, and American
blunders in the science of politics looked at from a new and independent point of view. At
what Jane and Elsie considered the most interesting part of the conversation, Mrs. Phillips
and Harriett, who cared for none of these subjects, gave the signal for the ladies to withdraw,
so they had to leave with them.

Jane saw the children to bed, and Elsie got on with Mrs. Phillips's bonnet, while the gentlemen
remained in the dining room; but both reappeared in the drawing-room by the time they came
upstairs. Elsie did not like to disappoint any one, and the idea struck her that if she got
up very early in the morning, and things went all well with her, she could finish Harriett's
bonnet also in time, for really Mrs. Phillips's new one would make her sister-in-law's look
very shabby. It was the first new bonnet she had been trusted to make since she came; she had
had CARTE BLANCHE for the materials, and had pleased herself with the style, and Elsie believed
it would be her CHEF-D'OEUVRE. The idea of giving Miss Phillips such an unexpected pleasure
made her feel quite kindly disposed towards her, though the feeling was not reciprocated, for
as Harriett did not know of Elsie's intentions, she could not be supposed to be grateful for
them; but, on the contrary, she felt a grudge at her for enjoying herself in this way at the
expense of her bonnet. Harriett Phillips played and sang very well; her father was fond of
music, and that taste had been very well cultivated for her time and opportunities, and she
had kept up with all the modern music very meritoriously. Perhaps it was this, more than anything
else, that had made her Dr. Phillips's favourite daughter, for in all other things Georgiana
was more self-forgetful and more sympathising. Stanley, too, admired his sister's accomplishment;
he had missed the delightful little family concerts and the glee-singing that he had left for
his bush life, and if it could have been possible for his wife to acquire music it would certainly
have been a boon to him; but as she had no ear and no taste, even he saw that it was impracticable;
but Emily was to be an accomplished musician. She did not go to bed with the little ones, but
sat up to play her two little airs to her papa's friends--to teach her confidence, Mrs. Phillips
said, but, in reality, to give her a little spur to application.

"As for Emily needing confidence," whispered Brandon to Alice Melville, "that is a splendid
absurdity. These colonial children do not know what bashfulness or timidity means--not but
what I am very fond of all the Phillipses, and Emily is my favourite."

"She is mine, too," said Elsie; "she is an affectionate and an original child, with quick perceptions
and quick feelings. I believe she is very fond of me; I like little people to be fond of me."

"Not big people, too?" said Brandon, with an expression half comic, half sad.

Elsie blushed. Emily came up to her dear friend, Mr. Brandon, and her favourite, Alice. "Aunt
Harriett is going to play and sing now, and after that, Alice, you must sing. I like your songs
better than Aunt Harriett's twenty times, because I can hear all your words."

"I cannot sing," said Elsie, "I never had a lesson in either music or singing in my life."

"Oh! but you sing very nicely; indeed she does, Mr. Brandon: and there is not a thing that
happens that she cannot turn into a song or a poem, just like what there is in books, and you
would think it very pretty if you only heard them. We get her to bring her work into our nursery
in the evenings, and there we have stories and songs from her."

"You are in luck," said Mr. Brandon; "but now that you have told us of Miss Alice Melville's
accomplishments, we must be made to share in your good fortune."

