The combination of qualities and motives which we are accustomed to express in the general
term of chivalry was the mediæval ideal of virtue, and as such was in practice inevitably subject
to imperfection and inconsistency. The Roman virtus was simply courage. Chivalry meant courage
and skill in arms, united to gentle birth, to courtesy, to gallantry, and to a faithful observance
of the laws of combat; the whole inspired by military glory, religious enthusiasm, or devotion
to women. We should admire the greatness and nobility of this ideal, standing out as it does
against a background of lawlessness and ignorance, rather than complain that in practice its
valor often degenerated into ferocity, its Christianity into narrow bigotry, its worship of
women into license and brutality. Chivalry, supplying a standard of excellence adapted by its
nature to excite the admiration of men, did much to refine and civilize the rude age in which
it arose; and this result is not belittled by the fact that that standard was pitched above
the possibility of human attainment. Chivalry was the spontaneous expression of what was best
in the time, and gave sentiment and charm to lives otherwise hard and barren. Its very exaggerations
and grotesqueness illustrate the eagerness with which it was received, and the greatness of
the want which it supplied. This was an ideal, too, separate and distinct from any that had
been known before, possessing enduring characteristics of greatness and beauty which have never
ceased to command sympathy and admiration. Though changed in outward form, and appearing under
different manifestations, the chivalry of the Middle Ages is essentially the chivalry of to-day,
but it now exerts a moral and intellectual, instead of a physical force.

The new dignity which woman assumed in connection with the growth of chivalry was owing considerably
to a cause separate from the Northern sentiment concerning them, and as the position of women
is an important part of the social condition we are now examining, a glance at this other cause
will not be without value or interest. It is indeed remarkable that in the Middle Ages woman
should for the first time have attained her true rank, and that the highest conception of the
female character which the world had yet known should have been developed in so rude and ferocious
a time. The estimation in which women were held among Eastern nations was little lower than
their position among the Jews. Where polygamy exists, and where purchase-money is paid to the
father of the bride, women never attain to high appreciation or respect. Beauty rather than
virtue was the ideal of Greece. The women of that country, living in continual seclusion, deprived
alike of opportunities for attaining culture or exerting influence, became narrowed in thought
and intelligence, and passed their lives in obscurity under the control of their husbands or
sons.[8] Roman history gives us examples of female excellence and distinction, and represents
women during some periods in a better position than had previously been known. But the female
sex was never accorded among the Romans the general respect for its peculiar virtues, and the
consideration for its weakness which forms one of the brightest pages of modern civilization.
With the spread of Christianity, there was for centuries no improvement. The low standard by
which the Jews had judged the sex exerted a strong and an evil influence. The spirit of asceticism,
rapidly gaining ground in the Roman Church, pointed out absolute chastity in both sexes as
the only praiseworthy condition of life, made marriage only an excusable sin, and recognized
in that relationship, merely its use for the propagation of the species. Views so absurd and
unnatural could not fail in producing the most evil results. Woman came to be regarded by the
church as the origin of all sin, the favorite medium of the temptations of the Devil, the sanctity
and happiness of marriage were interfered with, and the priesthood, debarred from that condition,
showed themselves not insensible to the charms they so fiercely denounced, and presented to
their flocks demoralizing examples of profligacy. The Northern invaders brought with them their
own ideas concerning women, rough and crude, but containing the germ of much good. Being met
by Christianity, they embraced it in large numbers, unreflectingly, at the command of their
leaders. But in embracing it they changed it to suit themselves. Their minds were unfit for
the reception of the dogmas of the church, or for the realization and worship of an invisible
being. They seized on the ideas of Christ, the Virgin Mary, and the Saints, and worshipped
in a great degree their old gods under the new names. But of the new objects of worship, Mary
most struck their imaginations and won their affection. The meek and forgiving Christ was unsuited
to their fierce and warlike dispositions. But Mary, the beautiful, the tender, the merciful
mother of God became the object of an enthusiastic adoration, and with the worship of Mary
the position of the whole sex was elevated. The brutish and unnatural teachings of the Fathers
were overridden by the new and noble ideas which were springing up. Doctrines such as that
of the Immaculate Conception rapidly won ground, and Catholic Mariolatry, taking root in the
fertile soil of Northern chivalry, worked benefits which have lasted down to our own time,
and conferred great blessings upon it.

The purely military character of feudalism impressed itself on the habits of the time, and
moulded domestic life, amusements and education in strict accordance with it. The castles of
the great lords and knights were "academies of honour" for the children of their dependents
and less wealthy neighbors; the court yards became the scene of martial exercises, and the
presence of noble women within the walls afforded an opportunity for the cultivation of gentle
manners, and for the growth of that feeling of reverence for the fair sex which was to form
so important an element in the boys' later life. The "gentle damoiseau," confided at the age
of seven or eight to the care of a knight whose reputation for prowess and courtesy ensured
a good example, learned modesty and obedience in the performance of menial services, then considered
honorable; in the court-yard of the castle he was instructed in horsemanship, and in the use
of the lance, the bow, and the sword. In the dangers and hardships of the chase the principal
occupation in time of peace,--he was inured to fatigue, hunger, and pain; he learned to sound
the horn at the different stages of the hunt, to dress the game when killed, and to carve it
on the table.[9] He waited upon the ladies in their apartments as upon superior beings, whose
service, even the most menial, was an honor. While yet a damoiseau, and before he had attained
the rank of squire, the youth was expected to choose one girl who should receive his special
admiration and service, in whose name his future knightly deeds should be performed, who should
be his inspiration in battle, the reward of his valor, and the object of his gallantry. In
the loves of Amadis and Oriana, so famous in romance, we have a simple and charming description
of the first budding of the chivalric sentiment. "Oriana was about ten years old, the fairest
creature that ever was seen; wherefore she was called the one 'without a peer.' * * * The Child
of the Sea (Amadis) was now twelve years old, but in stature and size he seemed fifteen, and
he served the queen; but now that Oriana was there, the queen gave her the Child of the Sea,
that he should serve her, and Oriana said that 'it pleased her'; and that word which she said
the child kept in his heart, so that he never lost it from his memory, and in all his life
he was never weary of serving her, and his heart was surrendered to her; and this love lasted
as long as they lasted, for as well as he loved her did she also love him. But the Child of
the Sea, who knew nothing of her love, thought himself presumptuous to have placed his thoughts
on her, and dared not speak to her; and she, who loved him in her heart, was careful not to
speak more with him than with another; but their eyes delighted to reveal to the heart what
was the thing on earth that they loved best. And now the time came that he thought he could
take arms if he were knighted; and this he greatly desired, thinking that he would do such
things that, if he lived, his mistress should esteem him."[10]

Life in a Norman castle was at best hard and comfortless. In summer it was enlivened by hunting
and hawking, by tournaments and pageantry. The gardens which usually surrounded a castle formed
a resource for the female portion of the inhabitants, who are often represented in the illuminations
of the time as occupied in tending the flowers or in making garlands. But in winter there were
few comforts to lessen the suffering, and few resources to vary the monotony of life. The passages
in the romances which hail the return of spring, are full of thankfulness and delight. Chess,
dice, and cards, as well as many frolicsome games, served, with the aid of the minstrels, to
afford amusement. The women had their occupations of spinning, sewing, and embroidery, while
some of the accomplishments they cultivated may be inferred from the following passage in the
folio of old Sir Joshua Barnes: "And now the ladies themselves, with many noble virgins, were
meditating the various measures their skilful feet were to make, the pleasant aires their sweet
voices should warble, and those soft divisions their tender fingers should strike on the yielding
strings."[11] Life was lacking in physical comforts, and still more in refinement. The dining-hall
became at night the sleeping place of a promiscuous crowd of retainers. There was a very imperfect
separation of the sexes at any time. Men and women ate with their fingers, and threw the refuse
of their meal on the table, or amidst the straw on the floor, to be devoured by the cats and
dogs which swarmed about. Read the directions for ladies' table manners given by Robert de
Blois: "If you eat with another (i.e., in the same plate), turn the nicest bits to him, and
do not go picking out the finest and largest for yourself, which is not courteous. Moreover,
no one should eat greedily a choice bit which is too large or too hot, for fear of choking
or burning herself. * * * Each time you drink wipe your mouth well, that no grease may go into
the wine, which is very unpleasant to the person who drinks after you. But when you wipe your
mouth for drinking, do not wipe your eyes or nose with the table-cloth, and avoid spilling
from your mouth or greasing your hands too much."[12] The same authority on manners and etiquette
warns ladies against scolding and disputing, against swearing and getting drunk, and against
some other objectionable actions which betray a great lack of feminine modesty. The "Moral
Instructions" of the Chevalier de la Tour Landry present a picture of coarseness and immorality
among both men and women, which shows how incompatible was the barrack-like existence of feudal
times with the practice of any sort of self-restraint or purity of life.

Of such a character, then, was the audience which the mediæval romancers had to please. A class
essentially military, ferocious, and accustomed to shedding blood, yet preserving in their
violence a certain observance of laws of honor and courtesy; setting before themselves more
often an ideal of glory and nobility, than an object of plunder or conquest; cultivating a
consideration and gallantry toward women, remarkable in view of the necessarily rough and unrefined
circumstances of their life; highly imaginative and adventurous; rejoicing in brilliancy of
dress and show; filling the monotony of peace by tournaments, martial games, and the entertainments
of the minstrels.

[Footnote 1: Taine: History of Eng. Lit., Van Laun's trans. chap. 3, pt. ii.]

[Footnote 2: "Hist. of Crusades," p. 11; Sir E. Strachey, Introd. to "Morte d'Arthur."]

[Footnote 3: Mill's "Chivalry."]

[Footnote 4: Quoted in Green's "Short History of the English People." p. 224.]

[Footnote 5: Warton's "Hist. of English Poetry," Dissert. i.]

[Footnote 6: Quoted by Warton, "Hist. of Poetry," Dis. i.]

[Footnote 7: Froissart's "Chronicles," v. ii, p. 248, Johnes' Trans.]

[Footnote 8: Lecky's "History of Morals," chap. 5, vol. 2.]

[Footnote 9: Scott's "Essay on Chivalry."]

[Footnote 10: "Amadis of Gaul," Southey's ed. vol. 1, p. 40. This romance belongs to a late
period of romantic fiction, but the passage cited is a good illustration of mediæval sentiment.]

[Footnote 11: Sir J. Barnes' "History of Edward III."]

[Footnote 12: Wright's "Manners and Sentiments in the Middle Ages," p. 276.]

II.

The romances of chivalry sprang to life a logical production of the times. Their authors seized
on the character of a king and a warrior--their highest conception of greatness, in the persons
of Charlemagne and Arthur. Regardless of anachronism, they represented their heroes as the
centre of a chivalric court, accoutred in the arms, and practising the customs of later centuries;
they created in fact a new Arthur and a new Charlemagne, adapted to the new times. They brought
to light the almost forgotten characters of antiquity. They represented Jason and Alexander
invested with chivalric attributes and affected by mediæval superstitions. Hercules, according
to them, performed his labors, not because of the wrath of Juno or the command of Jove, but,
like a true knight-errant, to gain the favor of a Boeotian princess. Virgil the poet was transformed
into Virgil the enchanter. The chief heroes were surrounded with restless knights, whose romantic
adventures afforded unlimited range to the imagination, and delighted the chivalric mind. The
romancers mingled with their endless tales of "arms and amours," the superstitions and myths
which occupied the minds of men to the exclusion of all real knowledge and inquiry. The gloomy
and terrible fictions which had adorned the songs of Northern scalds, the bright and fanciful
imagery contained in the tales of Arabia and the East which the crusaders brought back with
them into Europe, the superstitions of Christianity itself, were given only a greater influence
in the lives of fictitious heroes than they were supposed to have in those of living men. Perfectly
suited to the times, and in fact born of them, the romances took at once a powerful hold on
the popular imagination. The characters of Arthur, of Launcelot and of Tristram became the
objects of an ardent admiration, and the standards of excellence to which many strove to attain.
The most exaggerated ideas of chivalry contained in the romances were adopted in actual life.
Knights and ladies took upon themselves adventures and cultivated manners, which vied in extravagance
with those of imaginary beings. The personality of King Arthur was so intensely realized, that
for centuries it was believed that he would one day return from beyond the grave to resume
his glorious rule. On his tomb were supposed to be inscribed the words:

      Hic jacet Arthurus rex, quondam rexque futurus.

Henry II visited his legendary grave at Glastonbury, and named his grandson Arthur. Edward
I held a Round Table at Kenilworth. Remarkable features of nature--rocks, caves, and mounds
were associated in the popular mind with the achievements of Arthur, and many are connected
with them by name at the present day.

But the romances relating to Arthur were far more than the reflection of passing thoughts and
customs destined to perish with the generations who read them. They embodied the ideals of
the English race six centuries ago, and although appearing in a different form, those ideals
are still our own. The examples presented in romantic fiction of manly courage, of self-sacrificing
devotion, of simplicity of character, and of chivalric consideration for the weakness of the
female sex, may excite our admiration and sympathy, as well as that of a fierce and untutored
knighthood. These tales were the product of the English mind in its boyhood, and it is to the
youth of our day that they are best adapted and most attractive; but the rationalism of the
nineteenth century may find in their spirit of simple faith, of unquestioning belief and trust,
much that is beautiful in human life which modern thought and science have swept away. It is
on account of the enduring character of the ideals, of which the Arthurian legends were the
spontaneous expression, that these works, although contained in a rude form, without artistic
plan or literary merit to give them permanence, have never wholly passed from the acquaintance
of men. The rude force and beauty of mediæval fiction has been deeply felt by many of the greatest
minds which have contributed to modern literature. To the perusal of the story of Launcelot
and Guenever Dante ascribes the coming of Paolo and Francesca al doloroso passo. While the
other works of Ariosto have fallen into obscurity, his "Orlando Furioso" has achieved a lasting
fame. One of the greatest poems in the German language, the "Oberon" of Wieland, is almost
a reproduction of a chivalric romance. The reader of Milton is often reminded of

                              Uther's son,
      Begirt with British and Armoric knights.

Spenser transferred romantic fiction into the region of allegory, and gave to English literature
the immortal "Faery Queen." In our own day the "Idyls" of Tennyson have made the legends of
Arthur a part of our common thought, and the Knights of the Round Table familiar in almost
every household. The romances of chivalry fall naturally into three general classes: those
relating to Charlemagne and his peers; those relating to classical and mythological heroes;
and, finally, the tales connected with King Arthur. The strong similarity which exists in the
character and incidents of these three classes makes an acquaintance with one of them sufficient
for the purpose of this work. The "Morte d'Arthur" and the romances of which it forms a compendium
will therefore be chiefly considered, as being the most interesting in their bearing on English
fiction.

In the early part of the twelfth century, Walter Mapes, Archdeacon of Oxford, while travelling
in France, became possessed of a book written in the British or Armoric language, which treated
of the history of kings of Britain, and was undoubtedly even at that time of considerable antiquity.
Little is known concerning this curious work. It related the fabulous martial deeds of British
kings, of whose existence there is no previous record, their victories over giants and dragons,
and the various supernatural influences to which they were subject. Hence comes the story of
King Lear and of Jack the Giant-Killer, and here are first met the characters of King Arthur
and the enchanter Merlin. This book having been translated into Latin by Geoffrey of Monmouth,
a Benedictine monk, at once attained a great popularity and reputation; and for several centuries
was universally accepted as true history. A number of metrical romances soon appeared to gratify
the taste which Geoffrey's chronicle had excited, and in the first half of the thirteenth century
the same stories began to be written in prose. From this time until the middle of the fifteenth
century most of what we now call romantic fiction was produced, although many imitations and
translations appeared in England for more than a century afterward. The exact dates of the
different romances and the names of their authors cannot be positively established, as the
early copies were undated, and the names prefixed to them are believed to be fictitious. During
this period were given to the world, among many others, the romances of Merlin the Enchanter,
of Launcelot du Lac, of Meliadus, of his son Tristram, of Gyron le Courtoys, of Perceval le
Gallois, and, finally, that of the Saint Gréal, in which the whole body of knights-errant are
represented, probably by some monkish writer, in the search for the Holy Cup which had held
the blood of Christ. At last Sir Thomas Malory, a London knight, well read in chivalric literature,
combined these tales in the volume he called the "Morte d'Arthur," an excellent specimen of
a chivalric romance, which was printed by Caxton in 1485, and has since appeared in many editions
down to the present day.

The influence of the supernatural appears in the very beginning of the "Morte d'Arthur," and
throughout we trace its controlling effect upon the incidents of the story. It is by the help
of Merlin's magic that King Uther Pendragon slays the Duke of Cornwall, and assuming the likeness
of his rival, obtains possession of his wife Igraine, "a faire ladye, and a passing wyse,"
from which union Arthur is born. By the friendly influence of Merlin, Arthur receives his famous
sword Excalibur from the hands of the Lady of the Lake, with the scabbard whose wearer can
lose no blood; he defeats with great slaughter the hosts of the eleven kings who dispute his
throne; and obtains in marriage the celebrated Guenever, who brings him in dowry the Table
Round. But Merlin, who could do so much for others, had the power only to foresee, and not
to avert, his own impending fate. Enamoured of a fickle damsel, who soon tires of his love,
the great enchanter discloses his secrets to her, and with a sad farewell and final advice
to Arthur, he suffers himself to be imprisoned forever in the rock which his own magic had
wrought, by the spell which he had intrusted to his treacherous mistress. The friendly arts
of Merlin are succeeded by the machinations of the malicious fairy Morgana, and the watchful
care of the the Lady of the Lake. To excite the childlike wonder of his readers, the romancer
turns knights to stone, or makes them invisible; he introduces enchanted castles, vessels that
steer themselves, and the miraculous properties of the Saint Gréal, Arthur and Tristram fight
with dragons and giants. The loves of Tristram and Isoud arise from the drinking of an amorous
potion. The chastity of knight and damsel is determined by the magic horn, whose liquor the
innocent drink, but the guilty spill; and by the enchanted garland, which blooms on the brow
of the chaste, but withers on that of the faithless. Inventions such as these were regarded
as facts, or at least as possible occurrences, by the readers of romantic fiction. Men believed
what they were told, and to doubt, to inquire were intellectual efforts which they knew not
how to make, and which all the influences of their life opposed their making. There were no
fictions in the romances more improbable than the accounts of foreign parts brought back by
travellers. Sir John of Mandeville was not doubted when he wrote that he had met with a race
of men who had only one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead, or a people with only
one foot and that one large enough to be used as a parasol. The knight who had mastered the
art of reading looked upon such stories as curious facts. His religion was a religion of miracles,
and, ignorant of natural laws, he was accustomed to refer any unusual occurrence to the influence
of supernatural beings, a habit of thought which presented an ever-ready solution to mysteries
and problems otherwise inexplicable.

The entire credence accorded to the supernatural features of the romance gave to it a power
and an interest which has now, of course, disappeared; but the influence of the supernatural
upon the work is so strong, that even the modern reader, wandering with Launcelot and Tristram
in a world of wonders, meets a giant without surprise, and feels at home in an enchanted castle.

When Arthur is finally established on his throne, the knights of the Round Table begin their
wonderful career of adventure and gallantry. With them the reader roams over a vague and unreal
land called Britain or Cornwall, in full armor, the ever ready lance in rest. At almost every
turn a knight is met who offers combat, and each detail of the conflict--the rush of the horses,
the breaking of lances, the final hand-to-hand with swords--is described with a minuteness
which only the military enthusiasm of the Middle Ages could thoroughly appreciate. Sometimes
our hero meets a damsel who tells a tale of wrong, and leads the knight to champion her cause;
again, he encounters some old companion in arms, breaks a lance upon him by way of friendly
salutation, and wanders with him in search of adventures, inquiring of a chance peasant or
dwarf, of a wrong to be avenged, or a danger to be incurred. The reader attends tournaments,
of which every blow and every fall are chronicled. He becomes familiar with the respective
merits and prowess of a hundred different champions. He learns the laws of judicial combat,
and the intricate rules of the chivalric code. With imagination aroused and sympathies excited
he enters a life of alternate combat and love, almost real in the consistency of its improbability.
Three gallant knights, Sir Gawaine, Sir Marhaus, and Sir Uwaine set out together in search
of adventures.

    At the last they cam in to a grete forest that was named the
    countreye and foreste of Arroy and the countrey of straunge
    auentures. In this countrey, said syr Marhaus cam neuer knyghte syn
    it was crystened, but he fonde straunge auentures, and soo they
    rode, and cam in to a depe valey ful of stones, and ther by they
    sawe a fayr streme of water, aboue ther by was the hede of the
    streme, a fayr fontayne, & thre damoysels syttynge therby. And
    thenne they rode to them, and eyther salewed other, and the eldest
    had a garland of gold aboute her hede, and she was thre score
    wynter of age, or more, and her here[13] was whyte under the
    garland. The second damoysel was of thirty wynter of age, with a
    serkelet of gold aboute her hede. The thyrd damoysel was but xv
    year of age, and a garland of floures aboute her hede. When these
    knyghtes had soo beholde them, they asked hem the cause why they
    sat at that fontayne; we be here, sayd the damoysels for thys
    cause, yf we may see ony erraunt knyghtes to teche hem unto
    straunge auentures, and ye be thre knyghtes that seken auentures,
    and we be thre damoysels, and therfore eche one of yow must chose
    one of us. And whan ye haue done soo, we wylle lede yow vnto thre
    hyhe wayes, and there eche of yow shall chese a wey and his
    damoysel wyth hym. And this day twelue monethe ye must mete here
    ageyn and god sende yow your lyues, and ther to ye must plyzte your
    trouthe. This is wel said, sayd Syr Marhaus. * * * Thenne euery
    damoysel took her knyght by the raynes of his brydel, and broughte
    him to the thre wayes, and there was their othe made to mete at the
    fontayne that day twelue moneth and they were lyvynge, and soo they
    kyst and departed, and eueryche knyghte sette his lady behynde
    him.[14]

Sir Alysandre le Orphelin holds a piece of ground against all comers. A damsel called La Belle
Alice proclaims at Arthur's court that whoever overthrows him, shall have herself and all her
lands. Many knights undertake the adventure, but all are defeated by Sir Alysandre.

    And whanne La Beale Alys sawe hym juste soo wel, she thought hym a
    passynge goodly knyght on horsbak. And thenne she lepte out of her
    pauelione, and toke Syr Alisandre by the brydel, and thus she sayd;
    Fayre knyght, I require the of thy knyghthode, shewe me thy vysage.
    I dar wel, sayd Sir Alysander shewe my vysage. And then he put of
    his helme, and she sawe his vysage, she said; O swete Jhesu! the I
    must loue and neuer other. Thenne shewe me your vysage, said he.
    Thenne she unwympeled her vysage. And whanne he saw her, he sayde,
    here haue I fond my loue and my lady. Truly fayre lady, said he, I
    promise yow to be your knyghte, and none other that bereth the lyf.
    Now, gentil knyghte, said she, telle me your name. My name is, said
    he, Alysander le Orphelyn. Now damoysel, telle me your name, said
    he. My name is, said she, Alys la Beale Pilggrym. And whan we be
    more at oure hertes ease both ye and I shalle telle other of what
    blood we be come. Soo there was grete loue betwyxe them. And as
    they thus talked, ther came a knyghte that hyght Harsouse le
    Berbuse, and axed parte of sir Alysanders speres. Thenne Sir
    Alysander encountred with hym, and at the fyrst Sir Alysander smote
    hym ouer his hors croupe.[15]

Sir Tristram is thus welcomed at Arthur's court:

    Thenne Kynge Arthur took Sir Tristram by the hand, and wente to the
    table round. Thenne came Quene Guenever and many ladyes with her,
    and alle the ladyes sayden at one voyce, welcome Sir Tristram,
    welcome, said the damoysels, welcome said knightes, welcome said
    Arthur, for one of the best knyghts and the gentylst of the world,
    and the man of moost worship, for all manner of hunting thou berest
    the pryce, and of all mesures of blowynge thou art the begynninge,
    and of alle the termes of huntynge and haukinge ye are the
    begynner, of all Instrumentes of musyke ye are the best, therefor
    gentyl knyght, said Arthur, ye are welcome to this courte.[16]

The description of the combat between King Arthur and Accolon is perhaps the most interesting
of the kind which the "Morte d'Arthur" contains. Accolon of Gaul had by the aid of Morgan le
Fay obtained possession of Arthur's enchanted sword and scabbard.[17]

    And thenne they dressyd hem on bothe partyes of the felde, & lete
    their horses renne so fast that eyther smote other in the myddes of
    the shelde, with their speres hede, that bothe hors and man wente
    to the erthe. And thenne they sterte up bothe, and pulled oute
    their swerdys, * * * And so they went egrely to the battaille, and
    gaf many grete strokes, but alweyes Arthurs swerd bote[18] not like
    Accolon's swerd. But for the most party euery stroke that Accolon
    gaf he wounded sore Arthur, that it was merucylle he stode. And
    alweyes his blood fylle from him fast. When Arthur behelde the
    ground so sore bebledde he was desmayed, and thenne he demed
    treason that his swerd was chaunged, for his swerd boote not
    styl[19] as it was wont to do, therefore he dredde hym sore to be
    dede, for euer hym seemed that the swerd in Accolons hand was
    Excalibur, for at euery stroke that Accolon stroke he drewe blood
    on Arthur. Now knyghte, said Accolon unto Arthur, kepe the wel from
    me, but Arthur ansuered not ageyne, and gat hym suche a buffet on
    the helme that he made hym to stoupe nygh fallynge doune to the
    earthe. Thenne Sir Accolon with drewe hym a lytel, and cam on with
    Excalibur on hyghe, and smote Syr Arthur suche a buffet that he
    felle nyhe to the erthe. Thenne were they wroth bothe, and gaf eche
    other many sore strokes, but alweyes Syr Arthur lost so muche blood
    that it was merucille he stode on his feet, but he was so ful of
    knighthode, that knyghtly he endured the payne. And Syr Accolon
    lost not a dele of blood, therefore he waxed passynge lyghte, and
    Syr Arthur was passynge feble, and wende veryly to have dyed, but
    for al that he made countenaunce as though he myghte endure, and
    helde Accolon as shorte as he myght. But Accolon was bolde by cause
    of Excalibur that he waxed passynge hardy. * * * And therewith he
    cam fyersly upon Arthur, and syre Arthur was wrothe for the blood
    that he had lost, and smote Accolon on hyhe upon the helme soo
    myztely that he made hym nyhe to falle to the erthe. And therewith
    Arthurs swerd brast at the crosse and felle in the grasse amonge
    the blood, and the pommel and the sure handels he helde in his
    handes. When syr Arthur sawe that, he was in grete fere to dye, but
    alweyes he helde vp his shelde and lost no ground nor bated no
    chere. Thenne syre Accolon beganne with wordes of treason, and sayd
    knyghte thow arte overcome, and mayste not endure, and also thow
    arte wepenles, and thow hast loste moche of thy blood, and I am ful
    lothe to slee the, therfor yelde the to me as recreaunt. Nay, saide
    syre Arthur I maye not so, for I haue promysed to doo the bataille
    to the vttermost by the feythe of my body whyle me lasteth the lyf,
    and therfor I had leuer to dye with honour than to lyve with shame.
    And yf it were possyble for me to dye an C tymes, I had leuer to
    dye so ofte, than yelde me to the, for though I lacke wepen, I
    shalle lacke no worship. And yf thou slee me wepenles that shalle
    be thy shame. Wel, sayd Accolon, as for the shame I wyl not spare.
    Now kepe the from me, for thow arte but a dede ma. And therwith
    Accolon gaf hym suche a stroke that he felle nyghe to the erthe,
    and wolde haue had Arthur to haue cryed hym mercy. But syre Arthur
    pressed unto Accolon with his sheld and gaf hym with the pomel in
    his hand suche a buffet that he wente thre strydes abak. * * * And
    at the next stroke Syr Accolon stroke hym suche a stroke that by
    the damoysels enchauntement the swerd Excalibur felle oute of
    Accolons hande to the erthe. And therwith alle syre Arthur lyghtely
    lepte to hit, and gate hit in his hand, and forwith al he knewe
    that it was his suerd Excalibur, & sayd thow hast ben from me al to
    long, & moche dommage hast thow done me. * * * And therwith syr
    Arthur russhed on hym with hys myghte, and pulled hym to the erthe,
    and thenne russhed of his helme, and gaf hym suche a buffet on the
    hede that the blood cam oute at his eres, his nose & his mouthe.
    Now wyll I slee the said Arthur. Slee me ye may wel, said Accolon,
    and it please yow, for ye ar the best knyghte that euer I fonde,
    and I see wel that god is with yow.

