Second. Another motive to stir thee up to grow in this grace of the fear of God may be the
privileges that it lays thee under. What or where wilt thou find in the Bible, so many privileges
so affectionately entailed to any grace, as to this of the fear of God? God speaks of this
grace, and of the privileges that belong unto it, as if, to speak with reverence, he knew not
how to have done blessing of the man that hath it. It seems to me as if this grace of fear
is the darling grace, the grace that God sets his heart upon at the highest rate. As it were,
he embraces the hugs, and lays the man in his bosom, that hath, and grows strong in this grace
of the fear of God. See again the many privileges in which the man is interested that hath
this grace in his heart: and see also that there are but few of them, wherever mentioned, but
have entailed to them the pronunciation of a blessing, or else that man is spoken of by way
of admiration.

Third. Another motive may be this: The man that groweth in this grace of the fear of the Lord
will escape those evils that others will fall into. Where this grace is, it keepeth the soul
from final apostasy, "I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me"
(Jer 32:40). But yet, if there be not an increase in this grace, much evil may attend, and
be committed notwithstanding. There is a child that is healthy, and hath its limbs, and can
go, but it is careless; now the evil of carelessness doth disadvantage it very much; carelessness
is the cause of stumblings, of falls, of knocks, and that it falls into the dirt, yea, that
sometimes it is burned, or almost drowned. And thus it is, even with God's people that fear
him, because they add not to their fear a care of growing more in the fear of God, therefore
they reap damage; whereas, were they more in his fear, it would keep them better, deliver them
more, and preserve them from these snares of death.

Fourth. Another motive may be this: To grow in this grace of the fear of God, is the way to
be kept always in a conscientious performance of Christian duties. An increase in this grace,
I say, keeps every grace in exercise, and the keeping of our graces in their due exercise,
produceth a conscientious performance of duties. Thou hast a watch perhaps in thy pocket, but
the hand will not as yet be kept in any good order, but does always give the lie as to the
hour of the day; well, but what is the way to remedy this, but to look well to the spring,
and the wheels within? for if they indeed go right, so will the hand do also. This is thy case
in spiritual things; thou art a gracious man, and the fear of God is in thee, but yet for all
that, one cannot well tell, by thy life, what time of day it is.[28] Thou givest no true and
constant sign that thou art indeed a Christian; why, the reason is, thou dost not look well
to this grace of the fear of God. Thou dost not grow and increase in that, but sufferest thy
heart to grow careless, and hard, and so thy life remiss and worldly: Job's growing great in
the fear of God made him eschew evil (Job 1, 2:3).

Fifth. Another motive is: This is the way to be wise indeed. A wise man feareth and departeth
from evil. It doth not say a wise man hath the grace of fear, but a wise man feareth, that
is, putteth this grace into exercise. There is no greater sign of wisdom than to grow in this
blessed grace. Is it not a sign of wisdom to depart from sins, which are the snares of death
and hell? Is it not a sign of wisdom for a man yet more and more to endeavour to interest himself
in the love and protection of God? Is it not a high point of wisdom for a man to be always
doing of that which lays him under the conduct of angels? Surely this is wisdom. And if it
be a blessing to have this fear, is it not wisdom to increase in it? Doubtless it is the highest
point of wisdom, as I have showed before, therefore grow therein.

Sixth. Another motive may be this: It is seemly for saints to fear, and increase in this fear
of God. He is thy Creator; is it not seemly for creatures to fear and reverence their Creator?
He is thy King; is it not seemly for subjects to fear and reverence their King? He is thy Father;
is it not seemly for children to reverence and fear their Father? yea, and to do it more and more?

Seventh. Another motive may be: It is honourable to grow in this grace of fear; "When Ephraim
spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel" (Hosea 13:1). Truly, to fear, and to about in
this fear, is a sign of a very princely spirit; and the reason is, when I greatly fear my God,
I am above the fear of all others, nor can anything in this world, be it never so terrible
and dreadful, move me at all to fear them. And hence it is that Christ counsels us to fear--"And
I say unto you, my friends," saith he, "be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after
that have no more that they can do." Aye, but this is a high pitch, how should we come by such
princely spirits? well, I will forewarn you whom you shall fear, and by fearing of him, arrive
to this pitch, "Fear him, which after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell; yea, I
say unto you, fear him" (Luke 12:4,5). Indeed this true fear of God sets a man above all the
world. And therefore it saith again, "Neither fear ye their fear,"--but "sanctify the Lord
God" in your hearts, "and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread" (Isa 8:12,13).

Your great ranting, swaggering, roysters,[29] that are ignorant of the nature of the fear of
God, count it a poor, sneaking, pitiful, cowardly spirit in men to fear and tremble before
the Lord; but whoso looks back to jails and gibbets, to the sword and burning stake, shall
see, that there, in them, has been the most mighty and invincible spirit that has been in the
world!

Yea, see if God doth not count that the growth of his people in this grace of fear is that
which makes them honourable, when he positively excludeth those from a dwelling-place in his
house, that do not honour them that fear him (Psa 15:4). And he saith moreover, "A woman that
feareth the Lord, she shall be praised." If the world and godless men will not honour these,
they shall be honoured some way else. Such, saith he, "that honour me I will honour," and they
shall be honoured in heaven, in the churches, and among the angels.

Eighth. Another motive to grow in this fear of God may be: This fear, and the increase of it,
qualifies a man to be put in trust with heavenly and spiritual things, yea, and with earthly
things too.

1. For heavenly and spiritual things. "My covenant," saith God, "was with [Levi] of life and
peace, and I gave them to him, for the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my
name" (Mal 2:5).

Behold what a gift, what a mercy, what a blessing this Levi is intrusted with; to wit, with
God's everlasting covenant, and with the life and peace that is wrapped up in this covenant.
But why is it given to him? the answer is, "for the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid
before my name." And the reason is good, for this fear of God teaches a man to put a due estimation
upon every gift of God bestowed upon us; also it teaches us to make use of the same with reverence
of his name, and respect to his glory in most godly-wise, all which becomes him that is intrusted
with any spiritual gift. The gift here was given to Levi to minister to his brethren doctrinally
thereof, for he, saith God, shall teach Jacob my statutes and Israel my law. See also Exodus
18:21 and Nehemiah 7:2, with many other places that might be named, and you will find that
men fearing God and hating covetousness; that men that fear God above others, are intrusted
by God, yea, and by his church too, with the trust and ministration of spiritual things before
any other in the world.

2. For earthly things. This fear of God qualifies a man to be put in trust with them rather
than with another. Therefore God made Joseph lord of all Egypt; Obadiah, steward of Ahab's
house; Daniel, Mordecai, and the three children, were set over the province of Babylon; and
this by the wonderful working hand of God, because he had to dispose of earthly things now,
not only in a common way, but for the good of his people in special. True, when there is no
special matter or thing to be done by God in a nation for his people, then who will (that is,
whether they have grace or no) may have the disposal of those things; but if God has anything
in special to bestow upon his people of this world's goods, then he will intrust it in the
hands of men fearing God. Joseph must now be made lord of Egypt, because Israel must be kept
from starving; Obadiah must now be made steward of Ahab's house, because the Lord's prophets
must be hid from and fed in despite of the rage and bloody mind of Jezebel; Daniel, with his
companions, and Mordecai also, they were all exalted to earthly and temporal dignity, that
they might in that state, they being men that abounded in the fear of God, be serviceable to
their brethren in their straits and difficulties (Gen 42:18, 41:39; 1 Kings 18:3; Esth 6:10;
Dan 2:48, 3:30, 5:29, 6:1-3).

Ninth. Another motive to grow in this grace of fear is, Where the fear of God in the heart
of any is not growing, there no grace thrives, nor duty done as it should.

There no grace thrives, neither faith, hope, love, nor any grace. This is evident from that
general exhortation, "Perfecting holiness in the fear of God" (2 Cor 7:1). Perfecting holiness,
what is that? but as James says of patience, let every grace have its perfect work, that ye
may be perfect and entire, lacking nothing (James 1:4).

But this cannot be done but in the fear of God, yea, in the exercise of that grace, and so
consequently in the growth of it, for there is no grace but grows by being exercised. If then
you would be perfect in holiness, if you would have every grace that God has put into your
souls, grow and flourish into perfection; lay them, as I may say, a-soak in this grace of fear,[30]
and do all in the exercise of it; for a little done in the fear of the Lord is better than
the revenues of the wicked. And again, the Lord will not suffer the soul of the righteous,
the soul that liveth in the fear of the Lord, to famish, but he casteth away the abundance
of the wicked. Bring abundance to God, and if it be not seasoned with godly fear, it shall
not be acceptable to him, but loathsome and abominable in his sight; for it doth not flow from
the spirit of the fear of the Lord.

Therefore, where there is not a growth in this fear, there is no duty done so acceptably. This
flows from that which goes before, for if grace rather decays than grows, where this grace
of fear is not in the growth and increase thereof, then duties in their glory and acceptableness
decay likewise.

Tenth. Another motive to stir thee up to grow in the increase of this grace of fear is, It
is a grace, do but abound therein, that will give thee great boldness both with God and men.
Job was a man a none-such in his day for one that feared God; and who so bold with God as Job?
who so bold with God, and who so bold with men as he? How bold was he with God, when he wishes
for nothing more than that he might come even to his seat, and concludes that if he could come
at him, he would approach even as a prince unto him, and as such would order his cause before
him (Job 23:3-7, 31:35-37). Also before his friends, how bold was he? For ever as they laid
to his charge that he was an hypocrite, he repels them with the testimony of a good conscience,
which good conscience he got, and kept, and maintained by increasing in the fear of God; yea,
his conscience was kept so good by this grace of fear, for it was by that that he eschewed
evil, that it was common with him to appeal to God when accused, and also to put himself for
his clearing under most bitter curses and imprecations (Job 13:3-9, 18, 19:23,24, 31).

This fear of God is it that keeps the conscience clean and tender, and so free from much of
that defilement that even a good man may be afflicted with, for want of his growth in this
fear of God. Yea, let me add, if a man can with a good conscience say that he desires to fear
the name of God, it will add boldness to his soul in his approaches into the presence of God.
"O Lord," said Nehemiah, "I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy
servant, and servants, who desire to fear thy name" (Neh 1:11). He pleaded his desire of fearing
the name of God, as an argument with God to grant him his request; and the reason was, because
God had promised before "to bless them that fear him, both small and great" (Psa 115:13).

Eleventh. Another motive to stir you up to fear the Lord, and to grow in this fear is, By it
thou mayest have thy labours blessed, to the saving of the souls of others. It is said of Levi,
of whom mention was made before, that he feared God and was afraid before his name--that he
saved others from their sins. "The law of truth was in his mouth, and he walked with me in
peace and equity, and did turn away many from iniquity" (Mal 2:6). The fear of God that dwelt
in his heart, showed its growth in the sanctifying of the Lord by his life and words, and the
Lord also blessed this his growth herein, by blessing his labours to the saving of his neighbours.

Wouldest thou save thy husband, thy wife, thy children, &c., then be greatly in the fear of God.

This Peter teaches, "Wives," saith he, "be in subjection to your own husbands, that, if any
obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives,
while they behold your chaste conversation, coupled with fear" (1 Peter 3:1,2). So then, if
wives and children, yea, if husbands, wives, children, servants, &c., did but better observe
this general rule of Peter, to wit, of letting their whole conversation be coupled with fear,
they might be made instruments in God's hand of much more good than they are. But the misery
is, the fear of God is wanting in actions, and that is the cause that so little good is done
by those that profess. It is not a conversation that is coupled with a profession--for a great
profession may be attended with a life that is not good, but scandalous; but it is a conversation
coupled with fear of God--that is, with the impressions of the fear of God upon it--that is
convincing and that ministereth the awakenings of God to the conscience, in order to saving
the unbeliever. O they are a sweet couple, to wit, a Christian conversation coupled with fear.

The want of this fear of God is that that has been a stumbling-block to the blind oftentimes.
Alas, the world will not be convinced by your talk, by your notions, and by the great profession
that you make, if they see not, therewith mixed, the lively impressions of the fear of God;
but will, as I said, rather stumble and fall, even at your conversation and at your profession
itself. Wherefore, to prevent this mischief, that is, of stumbling of souls while you make
your profession of God, by a conversation not becoming your profession, God bids you fear him;
implying that a good conversation, coupled with fear, delivers the blind world from those falls
that otherwise they cannot be delivered from. (Lev 19:14). But shalt fear thy God, that is
the remedy that will prevent their stumbling at you, at what else soever they stumble. Wherefore
Paul says to Timothy, "Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them; for
in doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee" (1 Tim 4:16).

Twelfth. Another motive to fear, and to grow in this fear of God is, This is the way to engage
God to deliver thee from many outward dangers, whoever falls therein (Psa 34:7). This is proved
from that of the story of the Hebrew midwives. "The midwives," said Moses, "feared God," and
did not drown the men-children as the king had commanded, but saved them alive. And what follows?
"Therefore God dealt well with the midwives; and it came to pass because the midwives feared
God, that he made them houses" (Exo 1). That is, he sheltered them and caused them to be hid
from the rage and fury of the king, and that perhaps in some of the houses of the Egyptians
themselves for why might not the midwives be there hid as well as was Moses even in the king's
court?[31] And how many times are they that fear God said to be delivered both by God and his
holy angels? as also I have already showed.

Thirteenth. Another motive to fear and to grow in this fear of God is, This is the way to be
delivered from errors and damnable opinions. There are some that perish in their righteousness,
that is an error; there be some that perish in their wickedness, and that is an error also.
Some again prolong their lives by their wickedness, and others are righteous over-much, and
also some are over-wise, and all these are snares, and pits, and holes. But then, sayest thou,
how shall I escape? Indeed that is the question, and the Holy Ghost resolves it thus, "He that
feareth God shall come forth of them all" (Eccl 7:18).

Fourteenth. Another motive to fear, and to grow in this fear of God, is, Such as have leave,
be they never so dark in their souls, to come boldly to Jesus Christ, and to trust in him for
life. I told you before, that they that fear God have in the general a license to trust in
him; but now I tell you, and that in particular, that they, and they especially, may do it,
and that though in the dark; you that sit in darkness and have no light, if this grace of fear
be alive in your hearts, you have this boldness--"Who is among you that feareth the Lord,"
mark, that feareth the Lord, "that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness,
and hath no light? let him trust in the name of the Lord, and stay upon his God" (Isa 50:10).
It is no small advantage, you know, when men have to deal in difficult matters, to have a patent
or license to deal; now to trust in the Lord is a difficult thing, yet the best and most gainful
of all. But then, some will say, since it is so difficult, how may we do without danger? Why,
the text gives a license, a patent to them to trust in his name, that have his fear in their
hearts--"Let him trust in the name of the Lord, and stay upon his God." [32]

Fifteenth. Another motive to fear and grow in this grace of fear, is, God will own and acknowledge
such to be his, whoever he rejecteth. Yea he will distinguish and separate them from all others,
in the day of his terrible judgments. He will do with them as he did by those that sighed for
the abominations that were done in the land--command the man that hath his ink-horn by his
side "to set a mark upon their foreheads," that they might not fall in that judgment with others
(Eze 9). So God said plainly of them that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name,
that they should be writ in his book--"A book of remembrance was written before him for them
that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name; and they shall be mine, saith the Lord
of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels, and I will spare them as a man spareth his
own son that serveth him" (Mal 3:16,17). Mark, he both acknowledges them for his, and also
promises to spare them, as a man would spare his own son; yea, and moreover, will wrap them
up as his chief jewels with himself in the bundle of life. Thus much for the motives.

How to grow in this fear of God.

Having given you these motives to the duty of growing in this fear of God, before I leave this
use, I will, in a few words, show you how you may grow in this fear of God.

First. Then, if thou wouldest grow in this fear of God, learn aright to distinguish of fear
in general. I mean, learn to distinguish between that fear that is godly, and that which in
itself is indeed ungodly fear of God; and know them well the one from the other, lest the one,
the fear that in itself indeed is ungodly, get the place, even the upper hand of that which
truly is godly fear. And remember the ungodly fear of God is by God himself counted an enemy
to him, and hurtful to his people, and is therefore most plentifully forbidden in the Word
(Gen 3:15, 26:24, 46:3; Exo 14:13, 20:20; Num 14:9, 21:34; Isa 41:10,14, 43:1, 44:2,8; 54:4;
Jer 30:10; Dan 10:12,19; Joel 2:21; Hagg 2:5; Zech 8:13).

Second. If thou wouldest grow in this godly fear, learn rightly to distinguish it from that
fear, in particular, that is godly but for a time; even from that fear that is wrought by the
Spirit, as a spirit of bondage. I say, learn to distinguish this from that, and also perfectly
to know the bounds that God hath set to that fear that is wrought by the Spirit, as a spirit
of bondage; lest, instead of growing in the fear that is to abide with thy soul for ever, thou
be over-run again with that first fear, which is to abide with thee but till the spirit of
adoption come. And that thou mayest not only distinguish them one from the other, but also
keep each in its due place and bounds, consider in general of what hath already been said upon
this head, and in particular that the first fear is no more wrought by the Holy Spirit, but
by the devil, to distress thee, and make thee to live, not like a son, but a slave. And for
thy better help in this matter, know that God himself hath set bounds to this fear, and has
concluded that after the spirit of adoption is come, that other fear is wrought in thy heart
by him no more (Rom 8:15; 2 Tim 1:7).

Again, before I leave this, let me tell thee that if thou dost not well bestir thee in this
matter, this bondage fear, to wit, that which is like it, though not wrought in thee by the
Holy Ghost, will, by the management and subtlety of the devil, the author of it, haunt, disturb,
and make thee live uncomfortably, and that while thou art an heir of God and his kingdom. This
is that fear that the apostle speaks of, that makes men "all their lifetime subject to bondage"
(Heb 2:14,15). For though Christ will deliver thee indeed at last, thou having embraced him
by faith, yet thy life will be full of trouble; and death, though Jesus hath abolished it,
will be always a living bugbear to thee in all thy ways and thoughts, to break thy peace, and
to make thee to draw thy loins heavily after him.

Third. Wouldest thou grow in this godly fear? then, as thou shouldest learn to distinguish
of fears, so thou shouldest make conscience of which to entertain and cherish. If God would
have his fear--and it is called HIS fear by way of eminency--"that his fear may be before you,
that ye sin not" (Exo 20:20; Jer 32:40)--I say, if God would have his fear be with thee, then
thou shouldest make conscience of this, and not so lightly give way to slavish fear, as is
common for Christians to do.

There is utterly a fault among Christians about this thing; that is, they make not that conscience
of resisting of slavish fear as they ought; they rather cherish and entertain it, and so weaken
themselves, and that fear that they ought to strengthen.

And this is the reason that we so often lie grabbling[33] under the black and amazing thoughts
that are engendered in our hearts by unbelief; for this fear nourisheth unbelief; that is,
now it doth, to wit, if we give way to it after the spirit of adoption is come, and readily
closeth with all the fiery darts of the wicked.

But Christians are ready to do with this fear as the horse does when the tines[34] of the fork
are set against his side; even lean to it until it entereth into his belly. We lean naturally
to this fear, I mean, after God has done good to our souls; it is hard striving against it,
because it has even our sense and feeling of its side. But I say, if thou wouldest be a growing
Christian--growing, I say, in the fear that is godly, in the fear that is always so--then make
conscience of striving against the other, and against all these things that would bring thee
back to it. "Wherefore should I fear," said David, "in the day of evil, when the iniquity of
my heels shall compass me about?" (Psa 49:5).

What! not fear in the day of evil? What! not when the iniquity of thy heels compasseth thee
about? No, not then, saith he, that is, not with that fear that would bring him again into
bondage to the law; for he had received the spirit of adoption before. Indeed, if ever a Christian
has ground to give way to slavish fear, it is at these two times, to wit, in the day of evil,
and when the iniquity of his heels compasseth him about; but you see, David would not then,
no, not then, give way thereto, nor did he see reason why he should. "Wherefore should I,"
said he? Aye, wherefore indeed? since now thou art become a son of God through Christ, and
hast received the Spirit of his Son into thy heart, crying, Father, Father.

Fourth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of godly fear? then grow in the knowledge of the new
covenant, for that is indeed the girdle of our reins, and the strength of our souls. But what
was it? what was it that he spake? But upon what is this princely fearless service of God grounded?
Why, upon the holy covenant of God, upon the oath that he swore unto Abraham (Luke 1:69-74).
Now in this covenant is wrapped up all thy salvation; in it is contained all thy desire, and
I am sure, that then it containeth the complete salvation of thy soul; and I say, since this
covenant is confirmed by promise, by oath, and by the blood of the Son of God, and that on
purpose that thou mightest serve thy God without slavish fear, then the knowledge and faith
of this covenant is of absolute necessity to bring us into this liberty, and out of our slavish
terrors, and so, consequently, to cause us to grow in that son-like, godly fear, which became
even the Son of God himself, and becomes all his disciples to live in the growth and exercise of.

Fifth. Wouldest thou grow in this godly fear? then labour even always to keep thine evidences
for heaven and of thy salvation alive upon thy heart; for he that loseth his evidences for
heaven, will hardly keep slavish fear out of heart; but he that hath the wisdom and grace to
keep them alive, and apparent to himself, he will grow in this godly fear. See how David words
it, "From the end of the earth," saith he, "will I cry unto thee; when my heart is overwhelmed,
lead me to the rock that is higher than I. For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong
tower from the enemy: I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever. For thou, O God, hast heard
my vows; thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name" (Psa 61:2-5). Mark a
little, David doth by these words, in the first place, suggest that sometimes, to his thinking,
he was as far off of his God as the ends of the earth are asunder, and that at such times he
was subject to be overwhelmed, afraid: [And] second, the way that he took at such times, to
help himself, was to cry to God to lead him again to Jesus Christ--"lead me to the rock that
is higher than I"; for indeed without faith in him, and the renewing of that faith, there can
be no evidence for heaven made to appear unto the soul. This therefore he prays for first.
Then he puts that faith into exercise, and that with respect to the time that was past, and
also of the time that was to come. For the time past, says he, "Thou hast been a shelter to
me, and a strong tower from the enemy"; and for the time to come, he said, "I will abide in
thy tabernacle," that is, in thy Christ by faith, and in thy way of worship by love, "forever."
And observe it, he makes the believing remembrance of his first evidences for heaven the ground
of this his cry and faith, "For thou," says he, "O God, hast given me the heritage of those
that fear thy name." Thou hast made me meet to be a partaker of the mercy of thy chosen, and
hast put me under the blessing of goodness wherewith thou hast blessed those that fear thee.
Thus you see how David, in his distresses, musters up his prayers, faith, and evidences for
eternal life, that he might deliver himself from being overwhelmed, that is, with slavish fear,
and that he might also abound in that son-like fear of his fellow-brethren, that is not only
comely, with respect to our profession, but profitable to our souls.

Sixth. Wouldest thou grow in this fear of God? then set before thine eyes the being and majesty
of God; for that both begetteth, maintaineth, and increaseth this fear. And hence it is called
the fear of God, that is, an holy and awful dread and reverence of his majesty. For the fear
of God is to stand in awe of him, but how can that be done if we do not set him before us?
And again, if we would fear him more, we must abide more in the sense and faith of his glorious
majesty. Hence this fear and God's name is so often put together: as fear God, fear the Lord,
fear thy God, do this in the fear of the Lord, and thou shalt fear thy God, I am the Lord.
For these words, "I am the Lord thy God," and the like, are on purpose put in, not only to
show us whom we should fear, but also to beget, maintain, and increase in us that fear that
is due from us to that "glorious and fearful name, the Lord our God" (Deut 28:58).

Seventh. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then keep always close to thy conscience
the authority of the Word; fear the commandment as the commandment of a God both mighty and
glorious, and as the commandment of a father, both loving and pitiful; let this commandment,
I say, be always with thine eye, with thine ear, and with thine heart; for then thou wilt be
taught, not only to fear, but to abound in the fear of the Lord. Every grace is nourished by
the Word, and without it there is no thrift in the soul (Prov 13:13, 4:20-22; Deut 6:1,2).

Eighth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then be much in the faith of the promise,
of the promise that maketh over to thy soul an interest in God by Christ, and of all good things.
The promise naturally tendeth to increase in us the fear of the Lord, because this fear, it
grows by goodness and mercy; they shall fear the Lord, and his goodness; now this goodness
and mercy of God, it is wrapt up in, and made over to us by promise; for God gave it to Abraham
by promise. (2 Cor 7:1). "Perfecting holiness in the fear of God"; therefore that fear by the
promise must needs grow mighty, for by, with, and in it, you see holiness is perfected.

Ninth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then remember the judgments of God that have,
or shall certainly overtake, those professors, that have either been downright hypocrites,
or else unwatchful Christians. For both these sorts partake of the judgments of God; the one,
to wit, the true Christian, for his unwatchfulness, for his correction; the other, to wit,
the hypocrite, for his hypocrisy, to his destruction. This is a way to make thee stand in awe,
and to make thee tremble, and grow in the grace of fear before thy God.

Judgments! you may say, what judgments? Answ. Time will fail me here to tell thee of the judgments
that sometimes overtake God's people, and that always certainly overtake the hypocrite for
his transgressions. For those that attend God's people, I would have thee look back to the
place in this book where they are particularly touched upon. And for those that attend the
hypocrite, in general they are these. 1. Blindness of heart in this world. 2. The death of
their hope at the day of their death. 3. And the damnation of their souls at the day of judgment
(Matt 23:15-19; Job 8:13, 11:20, 18:14, 20:4-7, Matt 23:33, 24:51; Luke 20:47). The godly consideration
of these things tend to make men grow in the fear of God.

Tenth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then study the excellencies of the grace of
fear, and what profit it yieldeth to them that have it, and labour to get thy heart into the
love, both of the exercise of the grace itself, and also of the fruit it yieldeth; for a man
hardly grows in the increase of any grace, until his heart is united to it, and until it is
made lovely in his eyes (Psa 119:119,120). Now the excellencies of this grace of fear have
also been discoursed of in this book before, where by reading thou shalt find the fruit it
bears, and the promises that are annexed to it, which, because they are many, I refer thee
also thither for thy instruction.

Eleventh. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then remember what a world of privileges
do belong to them that fear the Lord, as also I have hinted; namely, that such shall not be
hurt, shall want no good thing, shall be guarded by angels, and have a special license, though
in never so dreadful a plight, to trust in the name of the Lord, and stay upon their God.

Twelfth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then be much in prayer to God for abundance
of the increase thereof. To fear God is that which is according to his will, and if we ask
anything according to his will, he heareth us. Pray therefore that God will unite thy heart
to fear his name; this is the way to grow in the grace of fear.

Lastly, Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then devote thyself to it (Psa 119:38). Devote
myself to it, you will say, how is that? I answer, why, give thyself to it, addict thyself
to it. Solace thyself in the contemplation of God, and of a reverence of his name, and word,
and worship. Then wilt thou fear, and grow in this grace of fear.

What things they are that have a tendency in them to hinder the growth of the fear of God in
our hearts.

And that I may yet be helpful to thee, reader, I shall now give thee caution of those things
that will, if way be given to them, hinder thy growth in this fear of God, the which, because
they are very hurtful to the people of God, I would have thee be warned by them. And they are
these which follow:

First. If thou wouldest grow in this grace of fear, take heed of A HARD HEART, for that will
hinder thy growth in this grace. "Why hast thou hardened our heart from thy fear?" was a bitter
complaint of the church heretofore; for it is not only the judgment that in itself is dreadful
and sore to God's people, but that which greatly hindereth the growth of this grace in the
soul (Isa 63:17). A hard heart is but barren ground for any grace to grow in, especially for
the grace of fear: there is but little of this fear where the heart is indeed hard; neither
will there ever be much therein.

Now if thou wouldest be kept from a hard heart, 1. Take heed of the beginnings of sin. Take
heed, I say, of that, though it should be never so small; "A little leaven leaveneth the whole
lump." There is more in a little sin to harden, than in a great deal of grace to soften. David's
look upon Bathsheba was, one would think, but a small matter; yet that beginning of sin contracted
such hardness of heart in him, that it carried him almost beyond all fear of God. It did carry
him to commit lewdness with her, murder upon the body of Uriah, and to abundance of wicked
dissimulation; which are things, I say, that have direct tendency to quench and destroy all
fear of God in the soul.

2. If thou hast sinned, lie not down without repentance; for the want of repentance, after
one has sinned, makes the heart yet harder and harder. Indeed a hard heart is impenitent, and
impenitence also makes the heart harder and harder. So that if impenitence be added to hardness
of heart, or to the beginning of sin which makes it so, it will quickly be with that soul,
as is said of the house of Israel, it will have a whore's forehead, it will hardly be brought
to shame (Jer 3:3).

3. If thou wouldest be rid of a hard heart, that great enemy to the growth of the grace of
fear, be much with Christ upon the cross in thy meditations; for that is an excellent remedy
against hardness of heart: a right sight of him, as he hanged there for thy sins, will dissolve
thy heart into tears, and make it soft and tender. "They shall look upon me whom they have
pierced,--and mourn" (Zech 12:10). Now a soft, a tender, and a broken heart, is a fit place
for the grace of fear to thrive in. But,

Second. If thou wouldest have the grace of fear to grow in thy soul, take heed also of A PRAYERLESS
HEART, for that is not a place for this grace of fear to grow in. Hence he that restraineth
prayer is said to cast off fear. "Thou castest off fear," said one of his friends to Job. But
how must he do that? Why the next words show, "Thou restrainest prayer before God" (Job 15:4).
Seest thou a professor that prayeth not? that man thrusteth the fear of God away from him.
Seest thou a man that prays but little, that man feareth God but little; for it is the praying
soul, the man that is mighty in praying, that has a heart for the fear of God to grow in. Take
heed, therefore, of a prayerless heart, if you would grow in this grace of the fear of God.
Prayer is as the pitcher that fetcheth water from the brook, therewith to water the herbs;
break the pitcher, and it will fetch no water, and for want of water the garden withers.

Third. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of A LIGHT AND WANTON HEART,
for neither is such a heart good ground for the fear of God to grow in. Wherefore it is said
of Israel, "She feared not, but went and played the harlot also." She was given to wantonness,
and to be light and vain, and so her fear of God decayed (Jer 3:8). Had Joseph been as wanton
as his mistress, he had been as void of the fear of God as she; but he was of a sober, tender,
godly, considerate spirit, therefore he grew in the fear of God.

Fourth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of A COVETOUS HEART, for neither
is that which is such an one good ground for this grace of fear to grow in. Therefore this
covetousness and the fear of God are as enemies, set the one in opposition to the other: one
that feareth God and hateth covetousness (Exo 18:21). And the reason why covetousness is such
an obstruction to the growth of this grace of fear, is because covetousness casteth those things
out of the heart which alone can nourish this fear. It casteth out the Word and love of God,
without which no grace can grow in the soul; how then should the fear of God grow in a covetous
heart? (Eze 33:30-32; 1 John 2:15).

Fifth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of AN UNBELIEVING HEART, for
an unbelieving heart is not good ground for this grace of fear to grow in. An unbelieving heart
is called "an evil heart," because from it flows all the wickedness that is committed in the
world (Heb 3:12). Now it is faith, or a believing heart, that nourisheth this fear of God,
and not the other; and the reason is, for that faith brings God, heaven, and hell, to the soul,
and maketh it duly consider of them all (Heb 11:7). This is therefore the means of fear, and
that which will make it grow in the soul; but unbelief is a bane thereto.

Sixth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of A FORGETFUL HEART. Such
a heart is not a heart where the grace of fear will flourish, "when I remember, I am afraid,"
&c. Therefore take heed of forgetfulness; do not forget but remember God, and his kindness,
patience, and mercy, to those that yet neither have grace, nor special favour from him, and
that will beget and nourish his fear in thy heart, but forgetfulness of this, or of any other
of his judgments, is a great wound and weakening to this fear (Job 21:6). When a man well remembers
that God's judgments are so great a deep and mystery, as indeed they are, that remembrance
puts a man upon such considerations of God and of his judgments as to make him fear--"Therefore,"
said Job, "I am afraid of him." See the place, Job 23:15. "Therefore am I troubled at his presence;
when I consider, I am afraid of him"--when I remember and consider of the wonderful depths
of his judgments towards man.

Seventh. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of A MURMURING AND REPINING
HEART, for that is not a heart for this grace of fear to grow in. As for instance, when men
murmur and repine at God's hand, at his dispensations, and at the judgments that overtake them,
in their persons, estates, families, or relations, that their murmuring tendeth to destroy
fear; for a murmuring spirit is such an one as seems to correct God, and to find fault with
his dispensations, and where there is that, the heart is far from fear. A murmuring spirit
either comes from that wisdom that pretends to understand that there is a failure in the nature
and execution of things, or from an envy and spite at the execution of them. Now if murmurings
arise from this pretended wisdom of the flesh, then instead of fearing of God, his actions
are judged to be either rigid or ridiculous, which yet are done in judgment, truth, and righteousness.
So that a murmuring heart cannot be a good one for the fear of God to grow in. Alas! the heart
where that grows must be a soft one; as you have it in Job 23:15, 16; and a heart that will
stoop and be silent at the most abstruse of all his judgments--"I was dumb, because THOU didst
it." The heart in which this fear of God doth flourish is such, that it bows and is mute, if
it can but espy the hand, wisdom, justice, or holiness of God in this or the other of his dispensations,
and so stirs up the soul to fear before him. But if this murmuring ariseth from envy and spite,
that looketh so like to the spirit of the devil, that nothing need be said to give conviction
of the horrible wickedness of it.

Eighth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of A HIGH AND CAPTIOUS SPIRIT,
for that is not good ground for the fear of God to grow in. A meek and quiet spirit is the
best, and there the fear of God will flourish most; therefore Peter puts meekness and fear
together, as being most suited in their nature and natural tendency one to another (1 Peter
3:15). Meekness of spirit is like that heart that hath depth of earth in it in which things
may take root and grow; but a high and captious spirit is like to the stony ground, where there
is not depth of earth, and consequently, where this grace of fear cannot grow; therefore take
heed of this kind of spirit, if thou wouldest that the fear of God should grow in thy soul.

Ninth. Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of AN ENVIOUS HEART, for that
is not a good heart for the fear of God to grow in. "Let not thine heart envy sinners; but
be thou in the fear of the Lord all the day long" (Prov 23:17). To envy any is a sign of a
bad spirit, and that man takes upon him, as I have already hinted, to be a controller and a
judge, yea, and a malicious executioner too, and that of that fury that ariseth from his own
lusts and revengeful spirit, upon (perhaps) the man that is more righteous than himself. But
suppose he is a sinner that is the object of thine envy, why, the text sets that envy in direct
opposition to the fear of God; "Envy not sinners, but be thou in the fear of God." These two,
therefore, to wit, envy to sinners and fearing of God, are opposites. Thou canst not fear God,
and envy sinners too. And the reason is, because he that envieth a sinner, hath forgotten himself,
that he is as bad; and how can he then fear God? He that envies sinners rejects his duty of
blessing of them that curse, and praying for them that despitefully use us; and how can he
that hath rejected this, fear God? He that envieth sinners, therefore, cannot be of a good
spirit, nor can the fear of God grow in his heart.

Tenth. Lastly, Wouldest thou grow in this grace of fear? then take heed of HARDENING THY HEART
at any time against convictions to particular duties, as to prayer, alms, self-denial, or the
like. Take heed also of hardening thy heart, when thou art under any judgment of God, as sickness,
losses, crosses, or the like. For to harden the heart is to make it worse than it is; harder,
more desperate, and bold against God, than at the present it is. Now, I say, if thou wouldest
grow in this grace of fear, take heed of hardening thy heart, and especially of hardening of
it against convictions to good; for those convictions are sent of God like seasonable showers
of rain, to keep the tillage of thy heart in good order, that the grace of fear may grow therein;
but this stifling of convictions makes the heart as hard as a piece of the nether millstone.
Therefore happy is he that receiveth conviction, for so he doth keep in the fear of God, and
that fear thereby nourished in his soul; but cursed is he that doth otherwise--"Happy is the
man that feareth alway; but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief" (Prov 28:14).

USE THIRD, of encouragement.

USE THIRD. I come now to A USE OF ENCOURAGEMENT to those that are blessed with this grace of
fear. The last text that was mentioned saith, "Happy is the man that feareth alway," and so
doth many more. Happy already, because blessed with this grace; and happy for time to come,
because this grace shall abide, and continue till the soul that hath it is brought unto the
mansion-house of glory. "I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from
me." Therefore, as here it saith, Happy is he, so it saith also, It shall go well with him,
that is, in time to come. "It shall be well with them that fear God" (Eccl 8:12).

First. Had God given thee all the world, yet cursed hadst thou been, if he had not given thee
the fear of the Lord; for the fashion of this world is a fading thing, but he that feareth
the Lord shall abide for ever and ever. This therefore is the first thing that I would propound
for thy encouragement, thou man that fears the Lord. This grace will dwell in thy heart, for
it is a new covenant grace, and will abide with thee for ever. That thou mayest never forsake
God, is his design, and therefore, to keep thee from that wicked thing, he hath put his fear
in thy heart. Many are the temptations, difficulties, snares, traps, trials, and troubles that
the people of God pass through in the world, but how shall they be kept, how shall they be
delivered, and escape? Why, the answer is, The fear of God will keep them--"He that feareth
God shall come forth of them all."

Is it not therefore a wonderful mercy to be blessed with this grace of fear, that thou by it
mayest be kept from final, which is damnable apostasy? Bless God, therefore, thou blessed man,
that hast this grace of fear in thy soul. There are five things in this grace of fear that
have a direct tendency in them to keep thee from final apostasy.

1. It is seated in the heart, and the heart is, as I may call it, the main fort in the mystical
world, man. It is not placed in the head, as knowledge is; nor in the mouth, as utterance is,
but in the heart, the seat of all, "I will put my fear in their hearts." If a king will keep
a town secure to himself, let him be sure to man sufficiently the main fort thereof. If he
have twenty thousand men well armed, yet if they lie scattered here and there, the town may
be taken for all that, but if the main fort be well manned, then the town is more secure. What
if a man had all the parts, yea, all the arts of men and angels? That will not keep the heart
to God. But when the heart, this principal fort, is possessed with the fear of God, then he
is safe, but not else.

2. As the heart in general, so the will in special. That chief and great faculty of the soul
is the principle that is acted by this fear. The will, which way that goes, all goes; if it
be to heaven or hell. Now the will, I say, is that main faculty that is governed by this fear
that doth possess the soul, therefore all is like to go well with it. This Samuel insinuateth,
where he saith, "If ye will fear the Lord." Fearing of God is a voluntary act of the will,
and that being so, the soul is kept from rebellion against the commandment, because by the
will where this fear of God is placed, and which it governeth, is led all the rest of the powers
of the soul (1 Sam 12:14). In this will, then, is this fear of God placed, that this grace
may the better be able to govern the soul, and so by consequence the whole man; for as I said
before, look what way the will goes, look what the will does, thither goes, and that does,
the whole man (Psa 110:3). Man, when his will is alienate from God, is reckoned rebellious
throughout, and that not without ground, for the will is the principal faculty of the soul
as to obedience, and therefore things done without the will are as if they were not done at
all. The spirit is willing; if ye be willing; "she hath done what she could," and the like;
by these and such-like sayings the goodness of the heart and action is judged, as to the subjective
part thereof. Now this fear that we have been speaking of, is placed in the soul, and so consequently
in the will, that the man may thereby the better be kept from final and damnable apostasy.

3. This fear, as I may say, even above every other grace, is God's well-wisher; and hence it
is called, as I also have showed you, his fear. As he also says in the text mentioned above,
"I will put my fear in their hearts." These words, his and my, they are intimate and familiar
expressions, bespeaking not only great favour to man, but a very great trust put in him. As
who should say, this fear is my special friend, it will subject and bow the soul, and the several
faculties thereof, to my pleasure; it is my great favourite, and subdueth sinners to my pleasure.
You shall rarely find faith or repentance, or parts, go under such familiar characters as this
blessed fear of the Lord doth. Of all the counsellors and mighties that David had, Hushai only
was called the king's friend (2 Sam 15:37, 16:16). So of all the graces of the Spirit this
of the fear of God goes mostly, if not always, by the title of MY fear, God's fear, HIS fear,
&c. I told you before, if the king will keep a town, the main fort therein must be sufficiently
manned: and now I will add, that if he have not to govern those men some trusty and special
friend, such as Hushai was to David, he may find it lost when it should stand him in greatest
stead. If a soul should be possessed with all things possible, yet if this fear of God be wanting,
all other things will give place in time of rebellion, and the soul shall be found in, and
under the conduct of hell, when it should stand up for God and his truth in the world. This
fear of God, it is God's special friend, and therefore it has given unto it the chief seat
of the heart, the will, that the whole man may now be, and also be kept hereafter, in the subjection
and obedience of the gospel. For,

4. This grace of fear is the softest and most tender of God's honour of any other grace. It
is that tender, sensible, and trembling grace, that keepeth the soul upon its continual watch.
To keep a good watch is, you know, a wonderful safety to a place that is in continual danger
because of the enemy. Why, this is the grace that setteth the watch, and that keepeth the watchmen
awake (Can 3:7,8). A man cannot watch as he should, if he be destitute of fear: let him be
confident, and he sleeps; he unadvisedly lets into the garrison those that should not come
there. Israel's fault when they came to Canaan was, that they made a covenant with the inhabitants
of the land, to wit, the Gibeonites, without asking counsel of God. But would they have done
so, think you, if at the same time the fear of God had had its full play in the soul, in the
army? no, they at that time forgot to fear. The grace of fear had not at that time its full
stroke and sway among them.

5. This grace of fear is that which, as I may so say, first affects the hearts of saints with
judgments, after we have sinned, and so is as a beginning grace to bring again that to rights
that by sin is put out of frame. O it is a precious grace of God! I know what I say in this
matter, and also where I had been long ago, through the power of my lusts, and the wiles of
the devil, had it not been for the fear of God.

Second. But secondly, another encouragement for those that are blessed with this blessed grace
of fear is this,--this fear fails not to do this work for the soul, if there in truth, be it
never so small in measure. A little of this leaven "leaveneth the whole lump." True, a little
will not do, or help the soul to do those worthy exploits in the heart or life as well as a
bigger measure thereof; nor, indeed, can a little of any grace do that which a bigger measure
will; but a little will preserve the soul from final apostasy, and deliver it into the arms
of the Son of God at the final judgment. Wherefore, when he saith, "I will put my fear in their
hearts," he says not, I will put so much of it there, such a quantity, or such a degree; but,
"I will put my fear there." I speak not this in the least to tempt the godly man to be content
with the least degree of the fear of God in his heart. True, men should be glad that God hath
put even the least degree of this grace into their souls, but they should not be content therewith;
they should earnestly covet more, pray for more, and use all lawful, that is, all the means
of God's appointing, that they may get more.

There are, as I have said already, several degrees of this grace of fear, and our wisdom is
to grow in it, as in all the other graces of the Spirit. The reasons why, I have showed you,
and also the way to grow therein; but the least measure thereof will do as I said, that is,
keep the soul from final apostasy. There are, as I have showed you, those that greatly fear
the Lord, that fear exceedingly, and that fear him above many of their brethren; but the small
in this grace are saved as well as those that are great therein: "He will bless" or save "them
that fear him, both small and great." This fear of the Lord is the pulse of the soul; and as
some pulses beat stronger, some weaker, so is this grace of fear in the soul. They that beat
best are a sign of best life, but they that beat worst show that life is [barely] present.
As long as the pulse beats, we count not that the man is dead, though weak; and this fear,
where it is, preserves to everlasting life. Pulses there are also that are intermitting; to
wit, such as have their times for a little, a little time to stop, and beat again; true, these
are dangerous pulses, but yet too a sign of life. This fear of God also is sometimes like this
intermitting pulse; there are times when it forbears to work, and then it works again. David
had an intermitting pulse, Peter had an intermitting pulse, as also many other of the saints
of God. I call that an intermitting pulse, with reference to the fear we speak of, when there
is some obstruction by the workings of corruptions in the soul; I say, some obstruction from,
and hindrance of, the continual motion of this fear of God; yet none of these, though they
are various, and some of them signs of weakness, are signs of death, but life. "I will put
my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me."

Quest. But you may say, How shall I know that I fear God?

Answ. If I should say that desires, true sincere desires to fear him, is fear itself. I should
not say amiss (Neh 1:11). For although a desire to be, or do so and so, makes not a man to
be in temporal or natural things what he desires to be--for a sick, or poor, or imprisoned
man may desire to be well, to be rich, or to be at liberty, and yet be as they are, sick, poor,
or in prison--yet in spirituals, a man's desire to be good, to believe, to love, to hope, and
fear God, doth flow from the nature of grace itself.

I said before, that in temporals a man could not properly be said to be what he was not; yet
a man, even in naturals or temporals, shows his love to that thing that he desires, whether
it be health, riches, or liberty; and in spirituals, desires of, from love to this or that
grace of God, sincere desires of it flow from the root of the grace itself--"Thy servants who
desire to fear thy name." Nehemiah bore himself before God upon this, "that he desired to fear
his name." And hence again it is said concerning desires, true desires, "The desire of man
is his kindness" (Prov 19:22). For a man shows his heart, his love, his affections, and his
delights, in his desires; and since the grace of the fear of God is a grace so pleasant in
the sight of God, and of so sanctifying a nature in the soul where it is, a true sincere desire
to be blessed with that grace must needs flow from some being of this grace in the soul already.
Mark, they desire a country, and they shall have a city. At this low place, to wit, sincere
desires, God will meet the soul and will tell him that he hath accepted of his desires, that
his desires are his kindness, and flow from grace itself: "He will fulfil the desire of them
that fear him." Therefore desires are not rejected of God; but they would, if they did not
flow from a principle of grace already in the soul; therefore desires, sincere desires to fear
God, flow from grace already in the soul. Therefore, since thou fearest God, and it is evident
by thy desires that thou dost so do, thou art happy now in this thy fear, and shalt be happy
for ever hereafter in the enjoyment of that which God in another world hath laid up for them
that fear him.

Third. Another encouragement for those that have this grace of fear is this; this grace can
make that man, that in many other things is not capable of serving of God, serve him better
than those that have all without it. Poor Christian man, thou hast scarce been able to do anything
for God all thy days, but only to fear the Lord. Thou art no preacher, and so canst not do
him service that way; thou art no rich man, and so canst not do him service with outward substance;
thou art no wise man, and so canst not do anything that way; but here is thy mercy, thou fearest
God. Though thou canst not preach, thou canst fear God. Though thou hast no bread to feed the
belly, nor fleece to clothe the back of the poor, thou canst fear God. O how "blessed is the
man that feareth the Lord"; because this duty of fearing of God is an act of the mind, and
may be done by the man that is destitute of all things but that holy and blessed mind.

Blessed therefore is that man, for God hath not laid the comfort of his people in the doing
of external duties, nor the salvation of their souls, but in believing, loving, and fearing
God. Neither hath he laid these things in actions done in their health nor in the due management
of their most excellent parts, but in the receiving of Christ, and fear of God. The which,
good Christian, thou mayest do, and do acceptably, even though thou shouldest lie bed-rid all
thy days; thou mayest also be sick and believe; be sick and love, be sick and fear God, and
so be a blessed man. I have no worldly greatness, nor excellency of natural parts, but I fear God.

When Obadiah met with Elijah, he gave him no worldly and fantastical compliment, nor did he
glory in his promotion by Ahab the king of Israel, but gravely, and after a gracious manner,
said, "I thy servant fear the Lord from my youth." Also when the mariners inquired of Jonah,
saying, "What is thine occupation, and whence comest thou? what is thy country, and of what
people art thou?" This was the answer he gave them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the Lord, the
God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land" (Jonah 1:8,9). Indeed this answer
is the highest, and most noble in the world, nor are there any, save a few, that in truth can
thus express themselves, though other answers they had enough; most can say, I have wisdom,
or might, or riches, or friends, or health, or the like; these are common, and are greatly
boasted in by the most; but he is the man that feareth God, and he that can say, when they
say to him, What art thou? "I thy servant fear the Lord," he is the man of many, he is to be
honoured of men: though this, to wit, that he feareth the Lord, is all that he hath in the
world. He hath the thing, the honour, the life, and glory that is lasting; his blessedness
will abide when all men's but his is buried in the dust, in shame and contempt.[35]

A word to hypocrites.

Hypocrites, my last word is to you; the hypocrite is one that would appear to be that in men's
eyes that is nothing of in God's--thou hypocrite, that wouldest be esteemed to be one that
loves and that fears God, but does not; I have this to say to thee, thy condition is damnable,
because thou art a hypocrite, and seekest to deceive both God and man with guises, vizards,
masks, shows, pretences, and thy formal, carnal, feigned subjection to the outside of statutes,
laws, and commandments; but within thou art full of rottenness and all excess.

Hypocrite, thou mayest by thy cunning shifts be veiled and hid from men, but thou art naked
before the eyes of God, and he knoweth that his fear is not in thy heart (Luke 16:15).

Hypocrite, be admonished that there is not obedience accepted of God, where the heart is destitute
of this grace of fear. Keeping of the commandments is but one part of the duty of man, and
Paul did that, even while he was a hypocrite (Phil 3). To "fear God and keep his commandments,
this is the whole duty of man" (Eccl 12:13). This--fear God--the hypocrite, as a hypocrite,
cannot do, and therefore, as such, cannot escape the damnation of hell.

Hypocrite, thou must fear God first, even before thou dost offer to meddle with the commandments,
that is, as to the keeping of them. Indeed, thou shouldest read therein, that thou mayest learn
to fear the Lord, but yet, "fear God" goes before the command to keep his commandments. And
if thou dost not fear God first, thou transgressest, instead of keeping of the commandments.

Hypocrite, this word, FEAR GOD, is that which the hypocrite quite forgets, although it is that
which sanctifies the whole duty of man. For this is that, and nothing without it, that can
make a man sincere in his obedience; the hypocrite looks for applause abroad, and forgets that
he is condemned at home, and both these he does because he wanteth the fear of God.

Hypocrite, be admonished that none of the privileges that are spoken of in the former part
of the book belongs to thee, because thou art a hypocrite; and if thou hope, thy hope shall
be cut off, and if thou lean upon thy house, both thou and it shall fall into hell-fire. Triumph
then, thy triumph is but for awhile. Joy then, but the joy of the hypocrite is but for a moment
(Job 8:13,15, 20:4-6).

Perhaps thou wilt not let go now, what, as a hypocrite, thou hast got; but "what is the hope
of the hypocrite, when God taketh away his soul?" (Job 27:8). Hypocrite, thou shouldest have
chosen the fear of God, as thou hast chosen a profession without it, but thou hast cast off
fear, because thou art a hypocrite; and because thou art such, thou shalt have the same measure
that thou metest; God will cast thee off, because thou art a hypocrite. God hath prepared a
fear for thee because thou didst not choose the fear of God, and that fear shall come upon
thee like desolation, and like an armed man, and shall swallow thee up, thou and all that thou
art (Prov 1:27).

Hypocrite, read this text and tremble--"The sinners in Zion are afraid, fearfulness hath surprised
the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell
with everlasting burnings?" (Isa 33:13,14).

Hypocrite, thou art not under the fatherly protection of God, because thou art a hypocrite,
and wantest his fear in thine heart. The eyes of the Lord are upon them that fear him, to deliver
them. But the fearless man or hypocrite is left to the snares and wiles of the devil, to be
caught therein and overcome, because he is destitute of the fear of God.

Hypocrite, thou art like to have no other reward of God for thy labour than that which the
goats shall have;[36] the hypocrite, because he is a hypocrite, shall not stand in God's sight.
The gain of thy religion thou spendest as thou gettest it. Thou wilt not have one farthing
overplus at death and judgment.

Hypocrite, God hath not intrusted thee with the least dram of his saving grace, nor will he,
because thou art a hypocrite: and as for what thou hast, thou hast stolen it, even every man
of you from his neighbour; still pilfering out of their profession, even as Judas did out of
the bag. Thou comest like a thief into thy profession, and like a thief thou shalt go out of
the same. Jesus Christ hath not counted thee faithful to commit to thee any of his jewels to
keep, because thou fearest him not. He hath given his "banner to them that fear him, that it
may be displayed because of the truth" (Psa 60:4).

Hypocrite, thou art not true to God nor man, nor thine own soul, because thou art a hypocrite!
How should the Lord put any trust in thee? Why should the saints look for any good from thee?
Should God give thee his Word, thou wilt sell it. Should men commit their souls to thee, thou
wilt destroy them, by making merchandise of them, for thy own hypocritical designs. Yea, if
the sun waxes hot, thou wilt throw all away, and not endure the heat, because thou art a hypocrite!

FOOTNOTES:

[1]This is a very remarkable illustration of godly fear. Jacob does not swear by the omnipresence
or omniscience of God--nor by his omnipotence--nor by his love or mercy in his covenant--nor
by the God of Abraham, but by the "fear of his father Isaac"--the sole object of his adoration.
A most striking and solemn appeal to Jehovah, fixing upon our hearts that Divine proverb, "The
fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom"--the source of all happiness, both in time and
in eternity.--Ed.

[2] It is of solemn importance that we feel the vast difference between holy and unholy familiarity
with God. Has he adopted us into his family? Can we, by a new birth, say "Our Father?" Still
he is in heaven, we on earth. He is infinite in purity; Holy, Holy, Holy is his name. We are
defiled, and can only approach his presence in the righteousness of the Saviour and Mediator.
Then, O my soul, if it is thy bliss to draw near to the throne of grace with holy boldness,
let it be with reverence and godly fear.--Ed.

[3] It is an awful thing to appeal to God for the truth of a lie! All appeals to God, not required
by law, are worse than useless; they are wicked, and cast a doubt on the veracity of those
who make them--Ed.

[4] "To give the back"; to forsake, to depart, to treat with contempt. See Imperial Dictionary,
vol. i. p. 145.--Ed.

[5] The genuine disciple "who thinketh no evil" will say, Can this be so now? Yes, reader,
it is. Some go to God's house to worship their ease and forgetfulness in sleep; some for worldly
purposes; some to admire the beauty of the frail body; but many to worship God in spirit and
in truth. Reader, inquire to which of these classes you belong.--Ed.

[6] They worshipped God, not according to his appointment, but their own inventions--the direction
of their false prophets, or their idolatrous kings, or the usages of the nations round about
them. The tradition of the elders was of more value and validity with them than God's laws
by Moses. This our Saviour applies to the Jews in his time, who were formal in their devotions,
and wedded to their own inventions; and pronounces concerning them that in vain do they worship
God. How many still in worship regard the inventions of man, and traditions of the church,
more than the commands of God.--Ed.

[7] The Word is the decree upon which we must depend or perish. In vain, poor sinner, is any
reliance upon churches or men; neither Papist nor Protestant have any power "committed unto
them" to forgive sins. If they claim it, believe them not, but pity their pride and delusion.
Christ is the Rock, and not poor erring Peter, as some have vainly imagined. Peter is dead,
awaiting the resurrection of his body, and the great day of judgment; but Christ ever liveth
at all times, and in all places, able to save unto the uttermost. Put no trust in man, but
in thy broken spirit seek the blessing of Christ, that he may pardon thy sins.--Ed.

[8] The fear of the wicked arises from a corrupt, sinful, self-condemning conscience; they
fear God as an angry judge, and therefore consider him as their enemy. As they love and will
not part with their sins, so they are in continual dread of punishment.--Mason.

[9] "To-elbow all his days in his lord's vineyard"; to sit or stand idly resting upon his elbows,
instead of labouring in the vineyard. "A sovereign shame so elbows him."--King Lear, Act iv,
Scene 3.--Ed.

[10] "Gear"; apparel, furniture, implements. "The apostles were not fixed in their residence,
but were ready in their gears to move whither they were called."--Barrow.--Ed.

[11] God does not limit himself as to his mode of calling poor sinners. The three thousand
he convinced at one hour, and they immediately made a profession, but Bunyan was for years
in a state of alarming uncertainty; some are driven by fiery terrors, others by a still small
voice. Reader, our anxious inquiry should be, Have we entered in by Christ the gate? Are our
fruits meet for repentance? Let no one vaunt of his experience, because he go well bedaubed
with the dirt of the slough. Every soul that enters the gate is equally a miracle of grace.--Ed.

[12] This is remarkably instanced in Bunyan's Grace Abounding.--Ed.

[13] Those who are adopted into the family of heaven are "justified from all things"; being
delivered from sin, the curse, and wrath, "there is now no condemnation for them"; and trusting
to Jesus' precious blood of pardon, to his righteousness for acceptance, and to his grace for
sanctification, they are, by the indwelling of the Spirit which adopted them, possessed of
that love which casteth out fear, and rejoiceth in hope of the glory of God. And to those who,
through their manifold infirmities and departures, are often beset with unbelieving fears,
the Lord says, for their encouragement, "Fear thou not, for I am with thee; I will help thee;
yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness" (Isa 41:10).--Mason.

[14] Effectual grace in the soul is accompanied by doubts and fears, owing to the remains of
indwelling corruption; hence arises a continual warfare. Believer, how needful is it ever to
retain your confidence and assurance of your Lord's love to you! Rely on his faithfulness,
persevere steadfastly in the way of duty, looking to Jesus, and living upon his fulness.--Mason.
How does all this reasoning remind us of Bunyan's own experience, recorded in his Grace Abounding;
he was not ignorant of Satan's devices.--Ed.

[15] Alas! how few attain to this most blessed state. To delight so in the Word--to make it
so much our daily study, and the object of our meditations at night, as to have "its very form
engraven upon the face of our souls." Happy is the man that is in such a case. O my soul, why
is it not thy case?--Ed.

[16] The filial fear of God is most prevalent when the heart is impressed with a lively sense
of the love of God manifested in Christ. As a dutiful and obedient child fears to offend an
affectionate parent, or as a person of grateful heart would be extremely careful not to grieve
a kind and bountiful friend, who is continually loading him with favours and promoting his
true happiness; so, and much more, will the gracious soul be afraid of displeasing the Lord,
his bountiful and unwearied benefactor, who is crowning him with loving kindness and tender
mercies.--Mason.

[17] It is no new thing for those who are in public places, to seek themselves more than the
public welfare; nay, and to serve themselves by the public loss.--Henry.

[18] How does this remind us of the character of By-ends in the "Pilgrim's Progress" !--Ed.

[19] So Ainsworth understands, p. 134, vol. 10. He renders it, "lurking lions, which are lusty,
strong-toothed, fierce, roaring, and ravenous. And hereby," says he, "may be meant the rich
and mighty of the world, whom God often bringeth to misery." "They that are ravenous, and prey
on all about them, shall want, but the meek shall inherit the earth; they shall not want who,
with quiet obedience, work and mind their own business; plain-hearted Jacob has pottage enough,
when Esau, the cunning hunter, is ready to perish." Henry.--Ed.

[20] "The conduct of angels" means not merely their guiding pilgrims in the way, but also,
in a military sense, a guard, or what is now called a convoy.--Ed.

[21] See margin, Genesis 41:43, and 40:8.--Ed.

[22] To publish by sound of trumpet, to trumpet good tidings. In Bunyan's time it was never
used ironically.--Ed.

[23] This if from the Bible, and not from the inferior version in the Book of Common Prayer,
commonly called the reading Psalms.--Ed.

[24] Sternhold and Hopkin's edit. 1635.--The propriety of singing in public worship was strongly
debated by some of the Nonconformists. There were very weighty reasons, in persecuting times,
for meetings being held as quietly as possible. The Quakers to this day do not admit singing
in their assemblies. The introduction of this psalm proves that Bunyan was acquainted with
the "singing" Psalms, and, in all probability, practised singing in public worship. When James
I. improved this version for church use, called the Psalms of KING David, translated by KING
James, his last four lines are--

    Thou of Jerusalem shalt see
        While as thou liv'st the good,
    Thou shalt thy children's children see,
        And peace on Israel's brood.

How blessed are we in our day with the poetry of Watts, Wesley, and a host of others, who have
supplied the church with beautiful soul-inspiring compositions, without fear to restrain us
in using them.--Ed.

[25] No one can charge Bunyan with a superstitious notion of dreams, whether asleep or as if
asleep. Such a mode of interpretation as he recommends is both rational and scriptural. To
dream awake is thus explained--"They dream on in a course of reading without digesting."--Locke.--Ed.

[26] Whoever thou art, beseech the Lord to weigh thee in the balances of the sanctuary. No
fear of God--no grace in the soul. Of this class is the proud, the covetous, the glutton, the
liar, the apostate, the perverter of God's people from the right way; obstinate and incorrigible
backsliders; those who neither mourn nor sigh for the wickedness of the land; they that prefer
their own fancies, dreams, frames, and feelings, to the Word of God; swearers, adulterers,
perjured persons, and oppressors of the poor; they that insult the godly, and rejoice at their
sufferings; they that have no love, gratitude, nor sense of duty to God, as the fountain of
their unmerited mercies. O reader, give God no rest until, by his Word and Spirit, he imparts
to thee this holy fear as the earnest of glory hereafter; without it you are perishing.--Mason.--Ed.

[27] "Snaffle"; a loose bridle with a curb. "To snaffle"; to be easily led.

    "The third o' the' world is yours, which with a snaffle,
    You may pace easy, but not such a wise."
            Antony and Cleopatra.--Ed.

[28] How familiar but striking an illustration. Reader, look well to the mainspring, and see
also that the wheels are not clogged. We ought to be living epistles, known and read of all
men.--Ed.

[29] "A royster"; a violent, riotous, blustering, turbulent, fellow--a species of men now much
out of date, as are jails and gibbets, sword and burning stake. How great and true that courage
which could look at, and expect, such trials, without shrinking, when they were threatened
as a reward for love to Christ and holy obedience to his gospel!--Ed.

[30] This is a very strong and striking expression. "To soak," means to imbibe as much as we
can contain; and as to the influence of godly fear, happy shall we be in proportion as we are
enabled to follow Bunyan's advice.--Ed.

[31] The words, "he made them houses," we humbly suggest, may not only mean that these God-fearing
women had safe dwelling-places, but, in a more extensive sense, God made them the heads of
honourable families, see 1 Samuel 2:35; 2 Samuel 7:11, 13, 27, 29; 1 Kings 2:24, 11:28. So
David's prayer was, "Let my house be established before thee; thou, O my God, wilt build me
an house" (1 Chron 17:24,25).--Ed.

[32] Royal patents, in Bunyan's time, were lucrative but most oppressive, conferring upon favourites,
or their nominees, an exclusive right to deal in any article of manufacture. But the patent
to God's fearers, to trust in him when involved in darkness and distress, is a blessed privilege,
injurious to none.--Ed.

[33] "Grabbling"; sprawling along, drawing the body, by the hands, through a small aperture
in a mine.--Ed.

[34] "Tines"; from the Saxon; the teeth or spikes in the rowel of a spur.--Ed.

[35] "Blessed is the man that feareth the Lord." Blessedness shall attend him all the way to
heaven, in proportion as that fear abounds. It is a heaven on earth to live in the constant
fear of God--to have a reverential awe and fear of his majesty immovably fixed and implanted
in the soul. The grace of fear has an eminent influence in a Christian's sanctification; it
is a powerful restraint from sin. A holy fear of God, and a humble fear of ourselves, which
are alike of Divine operation, will preserve us from sin and engage us to obedience. God will
be our protector and instructor, our guide and our everlasting deliverer from all evil. Let
us not rest satisfied with the greatest attainments short of "perfecting holiness in the fear
of God."--Mason.

[36] By the goats we are to understand the hypocrites and the finally impenitent, who will
depart into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels; see Matthew 25:32, 33-41.--Ed.

***

THE DOCTRINE

OF

THE LAW AND GRACE UNFOLDED;

OR,

A DISCOURSE TOUCHING THE LAW AND GRACE; THE NATURE OF THE ONE, AND THE NATURE OF THE OTHER;
SHOWING WHAT THEY ARE, AS THEY ARE THE TWO COVENANTS; AND LIKEWISE, WHO THEY BE, AND WHAT THEIR
CONDITIONS ARE, THAT BE UNDER EITHER OF THESE TWO COVENANTS:

Wherein, for the better understanding of the reader, there are several questions answered touching
the law and grace, very easy to be read, and as easy to be understood, by those that are the
sons of wisdom, the children of the second covenant. (Heb 7:19).

"Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law" (Rom 3:28).

ADVERTISEMENT BY THE EDITOR.

It is difficult to understand those peculiar trials which called forth the mighty energies
of Bunyan's mind, unless we are acquainted with the times in which he lived. The trammels of
statecraft and priestcraft had been suddenly removed from religion, and men were left to form
their own opinions as to rites and ceremonies. In this state of abrupt liberty, some wild enthusiasts
ran into singular errors; and Bunyan's first work on "Gospel Truths" was published to correct
them. Then followed that alarm to thoughtless souls--"A Few Sighs from Hell"; and, in 1659,
as a further declaration of the most important truths of revelation, this work on the two covenants
was sent forth to chastise error, and comfort the saints of God. It was published many times
during the author's life; and since then, to a late period, very large impressions have been
circulated. Upon a subject of such vast importance--upon which hangs all our eternal interests--all
our indescribable joys or sorrows in a future and never-ending state--the requirements of our
Creator--and His gracious provision of pardoning mercy, upon our failing to keep His Law--these
are subjects of intense interest. How important is it that all our researches into these solemn
realities should be guided simply by the revealed will of God! That was the fountain at which
Bunyan drunk in all his knowledge; and with simplicity, and most earnest desire to promote
the glory of God in the salvation of sinners, he here gives the result of his patient, prayerful,
painful investigation. The humble dependence upon Divine mercy which the author felt is very
striking. He was sensible of his want of education; "no vain, whimsical, scholar-like terms"--no
philosophy from Plato or Aristotle. He felt, as to human teaching, his weakness, but proved
that, "when he was weak, then was he strong." He claimed an interest in the fervent prayers
of his fellow saints--"My heart is vile, the devil lieth at watch, trust myself I dare not;
if God do not help me, my heart will deceive me." This was the proper spirit in which to enter
upon so solemn a subject; and the aid he sought was vouchsafed to him, and appears throughout
this important work. His first object is to define what is the Law, a strict obedience to which
is exacted upon all mankind. It was given to Adam, and was afterwards more fully developed
upon Mount Sinai. It commands implicit, universal, perfect obedience, upon pain of eternal
ruin. He shows us that man, under the influence of that law, and while a stranger to the Law
of Grace, may repent and reform his conduct, become a member of a Christian church, be a virgin
waiting for his Lord, "but not step even upon the lowest round of the ladder that reacheth
to heaven." While man is a stranger to the new birth, "his destiny is the lion's den; yea,
worse than that, to be thrown into Hell to the very devils." Bunyan in this, as well as all
other of his works, is awfully severe upon those who say, "Let us sin that grace may abound,"
perverting the consolatory doctrine of Divine grace to their souls' destruction. "What! because
Christ is a Saviour, wilt thou be a sinner! because His grace abounds, therefore thou wilt
abound in sin! O wicked wretch! rake Hell all over, and surely I think thy fellow will scarce
be found. If Christ will not serve their turn, but they must have their sins too, take them,
Devil; if Heaven will not satisfy them, take them, Hell; devour them, burn them, Hell!" "Tell
the hogs of this world what a hog-sty is prepared for them, even such an one as a God hath
prepared to put the devil and his angels into."

To the distressed, sin-beaten Christian, this book abounds with consolation, and instructions
how to overcome the devices of Satan, who will plant the Ten Commandments, like ten great guns,
to destroy thy hopes. "Learn to outshoot the devil in his own bow, and to cut off his head
with his own sword. Doth Satan tell thee thou prayest but faintly and with cold devotions?
Answer him, I am glad you told me, I will trust the more to Christ's prayers, and groan, sigh,
and cry more earnestly at the Throne of Grace." To such readers as have been driven to the
verge of despair by a fear of having committed the unpardonable sin, here is strong consolation,
and a very explicit scriptural definition of that awful crime. Want of space prevents me adding
more than my earnest desire that the reading of this treatise may be productive of solid peace
and comfort.--ED.

THE EPISTLE TO THE READER

READER,

If at any time there be held forth by the preacher the freeness and fullness of the Gospel,
together with the readiness of the Lord of Peace to receive those that have any desire thereto,
presently it is the spirit of the world to cry out, Sure this man disdains the law, slights
the law, and counts that of none effect; and all because there is not, together with the Gospel,
mingled the doctrine of the law, which is not a right dispensing of the Word according to truth
and knowledge. Again; if there be the terror, horror, and severity of the law discovered to
a people by the servants of Jesus Christ, though they do not speak of it to the end people
should trust to it, by relying on it as it is a covenant of works; but rather that they should
be driven further from that covenant, even to embrace the tenders and privileges of the second,
yet, poor souls, because they are unacquainted with the natures of these two covenants, or
either of them, therefore, "they say," "Here is nothing but preaching of the law, thundering
of the law"; when, alas, if these two be not held forth--to wit, the Covenant of Works and
the Covenant of Grace, together with the nature of the one and the nature of the other--souls
will never be able either to know what they are by nature or what they lie under. Also, neither
can they understand what grace is, nor how to come from under the law to meet God in and through
that other most glorious covenant, through which and only through which, God can communicate
of Himself grace, glory, yea, even all the good things of another world.

I, having considered these things, together with others, have made bold to present yet once
more to thy view, my friend, something of the mind of God, to the end, if it shall be but blessed
to thee, thou mayest be benefited thereby; for verily these things are not such as are ordinary
and of small concernment, but do absolutely concern thee to know, and that experimentally too,
if ever thou do partake of the glory of God through Jesus Christ, and so escape the terror
and insupportable vengeance that will otherwise come upon thee through His justice, because
of thy living and dying in thy transgressions against the Law of God. And therefore, while
thou livest here below, it is thy duty, if thou wish thyself happy for the time to come, to
give up thyself to the studying of these two covenants treated of in the ensuing discourse;
and so to study them until thou, through grace, do not only get the notion of the one and of
the other in thy head, but until thou do feel the very power, life, and glory of the one and
of the other: for take this for granted, he that is dark as touching the scope, intent, and
nature of the law, is also dark as to the scope, nature, and glory of the Gospel; and also
he that hath but a notion of the one, will barely have any more than a notion of the other.

And the reason is this: because so long as people are ignorant of the nature of the law, and
of their being under it--that is, under the curse and condemning power of it, by reason of
their sin against it--so long they will be careless, and negligent as to the inquiring after
the true knowledge of the Gospel. Before the commandment came--that is, in the spirituality
of it--Paul was alive--that is, thought himself safe; which is clear, (Rom 7:9,10 compared
with Phil 3:5-11, etc). (verse 8). Therefore, I say, so long they will be ignorant of the nature
of the Gospel, and how glorious a thing it is to be found within the bounds of it; for we use
to say, that man that knoweth not himself to be sick, that man will not look out for himself
a physician; and this Christ knew full well when He saith, "The whole have no need of the physician,
but the sick";1 that is, none will in truth desire the physician unless they know they be sick.
That man also that hath got but a notion of the law--a notion, that is, the knowledge of it
in the head, so as to discourse and talk of it--if he hath not felt the power of it, and that
effectually too, it is to be feared will at the best be but a notionist in the Gospel; he will
not have the experimental knowledge of the same in his heart; nay, he will not seek nor heartily
desire after it; and all because, as I said before, he hath not experience of the wounding,
cutting, killing nature of the other.

I say, therefore, if thou wouldst know the authority and power of the Gospel, labour first
to know the power and authority of the law; for I am verily persuaded that the want of this
one thing--namely, the knowledge of the law, is one cause why so many are ignorant of the other.
That man that doth know the law doth not know in deed and in truth that he is a sinner; and
that man that doth not know he is a sinner, doth not know savingly that there is a Saviour.

Again; that man that doth not know the nature of the law, that man doth not know the nature
of sin; and that man that knoweth not the nature of sin, will not regard to know the nature
of a Saviour; this is proved (John 8:31-36). These people were professors, and yet did not
know the truth--the Gospel; and the reason was, because they did not know themselves, and so
not the law. I would not have thee mistake me, Christian reader; I do not say that the law
of itself will lead any soul to Jesus Christ; but the soul being killed by the law, through
the operation of its severity seizing on the soul, then the man, if he be enlightened by the
Spirit of Christ to see where remedy is to be had, will not, through grace, be contented without
the real and saving knowledge through faith of Him.

If thou wouldst, then, wash thy face clean, first take a glass and see where it is dirty; that
is, if thou wouldst indeed have thy sins washed away by the blood of Christ, labour first to
see them in the glass of the law, and do not be afraid to see thy besmeared condition, but
look on every spot thou hast; for he that looks on the foulness of his face by the halves,
will wash by the halves; even so, he that looks on his sins by the halves, he will seek for
Christ by the halves. Reckon thyself, therefore, I say, the biggest sinner in the world, and
be persuaded that there is none worse than thyself; then let the guilt of it seize on thy heart,
then also go in that case and condition to Jesus Christ, and plunge thyself into His merits
and the virtue of His blood; and after that, thou shalt speak of the things of the law and
of the Gospel experimentally, and the very language of the children of God shall feelingly
drop from thy lips, and not till then (James 1).

Let this therefore learn thee thus much: he that hath not seen his lost condition hath not
seen a safe condition; he that did never see himself in the devil's snare, did never see himself
in Christ's bosom. "This my Son was dead, and is alive again: he was lost, and is found." "Among
whom we also had our conversation in time past." 2 "But now are (so many of us as believe)
returned unto" Jesus Christ, "the" chief "Shepherd and Bishop of your souls."

I say, therefore, if thou do find in this treatise, in the first place, something touching
the nature, end, and extent of the law, do not thou cry out, therefore, all of a sudden, saying,
"Here is nothing but the terror, horror, and thundering sentences of the law."

Again; if thou do find in the second part of this discourse something of the freeness and fullness
of the Gospel, do not thou say neither, "Here is nothing but grace, therefore, surely, an undervaluing
of the law." No; but read it quite through, and so consider of it; and I hope thou shalt find
the two covenants--which all men are under, either the one or the other--discovered, and held
forth in their natures, ends, bounds, together with the state and condition of them that are
under the one, and of them that are under the other.

There be some that through ignorance do say how that such men as preach terror and amazement
to sinners are beside the book, and are ministers of the letter--the law, and not of the Spirit--the
Gospel; but I would answer them, citing them to the Sixteenth of Luke, from the nineteenth
verse to the end; and (1 Cor 6:9,10; Gal 3:10; Rom 3:9-19) only this caution I would give by
the way, how that they which preach terror to drive souls to the obtaining of salvation by
the works of the law, that preaching is not the right Gospel preaching; yet when saints speak
of the sad state that man are in by nature, to discover to souls their need of the Gospel,
this is honest preaching, and he that doth do so, he doth the work of a Gospel minister (Rom
3:9-25).

Again, there are others that say, because we do preach the free, full, and exceeding grace
discovered in the Gospel, therefore we make void the law; when indeed, unless the Gospel be
held forth in the glory thereof without confusion, by mingling the Covenant of Works therewith,
the law cannot be established. "Do we then make void the law through faith," or preaching of
the Gospel; nay, stay, saith Paul, "God forbid: yea, we establish the law" (Rom 3:31).

And verily, he that will indeed establish the law, or set it in its own place, for so I understand
the words, must be sure to hold forth the Gospel in its right colour and nature; for if a man
be ignorant of the nature of the Gospel and the Covenant of Grace, they, or he, will be very
apt to remove the law out of its place, and that because they are ignorant, not knowing "what
they say, nor whereof they affirm."

And let me tell you, if a man be ignorant of the Covenant of Grace, and the bounds and boundlessness
of the Gospel, though he speak and make mention of the name of the Father, and of the Son,
and also of the name of the new covenant, and the blood of Christ, yet at this very time, and
in these very words, he will preach nothing but the law, and that as a Covenant of Works.

Reader, I must confess it is a wonderfully mysterious thing, and he had need have a wiser spirit
than his own that can rightly set these two covenants in their right places, that when he speaks
of the one he doth not jostle the other out of its place. O, to be so well enlightened as to
speak of the one--that is, the law--for to magnify the Gospel; and also to speak of the Gospel
so as to establish, and yet not to idolize, the law, nor any particular thereof! It is rare,
and to be heard and found but in very few men's breasts.

If thou shouldst say, What is it to speak to each of these two covenants so as to set them
in their right places, and also to use the terror of the one so as to magnify and advance the
glory of the other? To this I shall answer also, read the ensuing discourse, but with an understanding
heart, and it is like thou wilt find a reply therein to the same purpose, which may be to thy
satisfaction. But if thou do find a parcel of plain, yet sound, true, and home sayings, attribute
that to the Lord Jesus His gifts and abilities, which He hath bestowed upon such a poor creature
as I am and have been. And if thou, being a seeing Christian, dost find me coming short, though
rightly touching at some things, attribute that either to my brevity, or, if thou wilt, to
my weaknesses, for I am full of them. A word or two more, and so I shall have done with this.

First. And the first is, Friend, if thou do not desire the salvation of thy soul, yet I pray
thee to read this book over with serious consideration; it may be it will stir up in thee some
desires to look out after it, which at present thou mayest be without.

Secondly, If thou dost find any stirrings in thy heart by thy reading such an unworthy man's
works as mine are, be sure that in the first place thou give glory to God, and give way to
thy convictions, and be not too hasty in getting them off from thy conscience; but let them
so work till thou dost see thyself by nature void of all graces, as faith, hope, knowledge
of God, Christ, and the Covenant of Grace.

Thirdly, Then, in the next place, fly in all haste to Jesus Christ, thou being sensible of
thy lost condition without Him, secretly persuading of thy soul that Jesus Christ standeth
open-armed to receive thee, to wash away thy sins, to clothe thee with His righteousness, and
is willing, yea, heartily willing, to present thee before the presence of the glory of God
and among the innumerable company of angels with exceeding joy. This being thus, in the next
place, do not satisfy thyself with these secret and first persuasions, which do or may encourage
thee to come to Jesus Christ; but be restless till thou dost find by blessed experience the
glorious glory of this the second covenant extended unto thee, and sealed upon thy soul with
the very Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that thou mayest not slight this my counsel,
I beseech thee, in the second place, consider these following things--

First, If thou dost get off thy convictions, and not the right way (which is by seeing thy
sins washed away by the blood of Jesus Christ), it is a question whether ever God will knock
at thy heart again or no; but rather say, such an one "is joined to idols, let him alone" (Hosea
4:17). Though he be in a natural state, "let him alone." Though he be in or under the curse
of the law, "let him alone." Though he be in the very hand of the devil, "let him alone." Though
he be a-going post-haste to Hell, "let him alone." Though his damnation will not only be damnation
for sins against the law, but also for slighting the Gospel, yet "let him alone." My Spirit,
My ministers, My Word, My grace, My mercy, My love, My pity, My common providences, shall no
more strive with him; "let him alone." O sad! O miserable! who would slight convictions that
are on their souls, which (if not slighted) tend so much for their good?

Secondly, If thou shalt not regard how thou do put off convictions, but put them off without
the precious blood of Christ being savingly applied to thy soul, thou art sure to have the
mis-spending of that conviction to prove the hardening of thy heart against the next time thou
art to hear the Word preached or read. This is commonly seen, that those souls that have not
regarded those convictions that are at first set upon their spirits, do commonly, and that
by the just judgments of God upon them, grow more hard, more senseless, more seared and sottish
in their spirits; for some, who formerly would quake and weep, and relent under the hearing
of the Word, do now for the present sit so senseless, so seared, and hardened in their consciences,
that certainly if they should have hell-fire thrown in their faces, as it sometimes cried up
in their ears, they would scarce be moved; and this comes upon them as a just judgment of God
(2 Thess 2:11,12).

Thirdly, If thou do slight these, or those convictions that may be set upon thy heart by reading
of this discourse, or hearing of any other good man preach the Word of God sincerely, thou
wilt have the stifling of these or those convictions to account and answer for at the day of
judgment; not only thy sins, that are commonly committed by thee in thy calling and common
discourse, but thou shalt be called to a reckoning for slighting convictions, disregarding
of convictions, which God useth as a special means to make poor sinners see their lost condition
and the need of a Saviour. Now here I might add many more considerations besides these, to
the end thou mayest be willing to tend and listen to convictions; as,

First, Consider thou hast a precious soul, more worth than the whole world; and this is commonly
worked upon, if ever it be saved, by convictions.

Secondly, This soul is for certain to go to Hell, if thou shalt be a slighter of convictions.

Thirdly, If that go to Hell, thy body must go thither too, and then never to come out again.
"Now consider this, ye that" are apt to "forget God," and His convictions, "lest He tear you
in pieces, and there be none to deliver" (Psa 50:22).

But if thou shalt be such an one that shall, notwithstanding thy reading of thy misery, and
also of God's mercy, shall persist to go on in thy sins, know, in the first place, that here
thou shalt be left, by the things that thou readest, without excuse; and in the world to come
thy damnation will be exceedingly aggravated for thy not regarding of them, and turning from
thy sins, which were not only reproved by them, but also for rejecting of that Word of Grace
that did instruct thee how and which way thou shouldst be saved from them. And so farewell;
I shall leave thee, and also this discourse, to God, who I know will pass a righteous judgment
both upon that and thee. I am yours, though not to serve your lusts and filthy minds, yet to
reprove, instruct, and, according to that proportion of faith and knowledge which God hath
given me, to declare unto you the way of life and salvation. Your judgings, railings, surmisings,
and disdaining of me, that I shall leave till the fiery judgment comes, in which the offender
shall not go unpunished, be he you or me; yet I shall pray for you, wish well to you, and do
you what good I can. And that I might not write or speak in vain, Christian, pray for me to
our God with much earnestness, fervency, and frequently, in all your knockings at our Father's
door, because I do very much stand in need thereof; for my work is great, my heart is vile,
the devil lieth at watch, the world would fain be saying, "Aha, aha, thus we would have it";
and of myself, keep myself I cannot; trust myself I dare not; if God do not help me, I am sure
it will not be long before my heart deceive me, and the world would have their advantage of
me, and so God be dishonoured by me, and thou also ashamed to own me. O, therefore, be much
in prayer for me, thy fellow! I trust, in that glorious grace that is conveyed from Heaven
to sinners, by which they are not only sanctified here in this world, but shall be glorified
in that which is to come; unto which, the Lord of His mercy bring us all.

John Bunyan. 

These are several titles which are set over the several TRUTHS contained in this book, for
thy sooner finding of them--

THE FIRST PART

1. The words of the text opened, and the doctrines laid down. [This doctrine, that there are
some that are under the law, or under the Covenant of Works.] 2. What the Covenant of Works
is, and when it is given. 3. What it is to be under the Covenant of Works. 4. Who they are
that are under the Covenant of Works. 5. What men may attain to that are under this Covenant
of Works.

THE SECOND PART

1. The doctrine proved. 2. The new covenant made with Christ. 3. The conditions of the new
covenant. 4. The suretiship of Christ. 5. Christ the Messenger of the new covenant. 6. Christ
the Sacrifice of the new covenant. 7. Christ the High Priest of the new covenant. 8. Christ
completely fulfilled the conditions of the new covenant. 9. The Covenant of Grace unchangeable;
the opposers answered. 10. Who, and how men are actually brought into the new covenant. 11.
A word of experience. 12. The privileges of the new covenant. 13. Two Hell-bred objections
answered. 14. A use of examination about the old covenant. 15. A legal spirit. 16. The use
of the new covenant. 17. The unpardonable sin. 18. Objections answered for their comfort who
would have their part in the new covenant. 

THE DOCTRINE OF THE LAW AND GRACE UNFOLDED; OR, A DISCOVERY OF THE LAW AND GRACE; THE NATURE
OF THE ONE, AND THE NATURE OF THE OTHER, AS THEY ARE THE TWO COVENANTS, ETC.

"FOR YE ARE NOT UNDER THE LAW, BUT UNDER GRACE" (Rom 6:14).

[THE WORDS OF THE TEXT OPENED, AND THE DOCTRINES LAID DOWN.]

In the three former chapters, the Apostle is pleading for the salvation of sinners by grace
without the works of the law, to the end he might confirm the saints, and also that he might
win over all those that did oppose the truth of this doctrine, or else leave them the more
without excuse; and that he might so do, he taketh in hand, first, to show the state of all
men naturally, or as they come into the world by generation, saying, in the Third Chapter,
"There is none righteous, no, not one; there is none that understandeth; there is none that
doeth good," etc. As if he had said, It seems there is a generation of men that think to be
saved by the righteousness of the law; but let me tell them that they are much deceived, in
that they have already sinned against the law; for by the disobedience of one, many, yea all,
were brought into a state of condemnation (Rom 5:12-20). Now, in the Sixth Chapter he doth,
as if he had turned him round to the brethren, and said, My brethren, you see now that it is
clear and evident that it is freely by the grace of Christ that we do inherit eternal life.
And again, for your comfort, my brethren, let me tell you that your condition is wondrous safe,
in that you are under grace; for, saith he, "Sin shall not have dominion over you"; that is,
neither the damning power, neither the filthy power, so as to destroy your souls: "For ye are
not under the law"; that is, you are not under that that will damn you for sin; "but" you are
"under grace," or stand thus in relation to God, that though you have sinned, yet you shall
be pardoned. "For ye are not under the law, but under grace." If any should ask what is the
meaning of the word "under," I answer, it signifieth, you are not held, kept, or shut up by
it so as to appear before God under that administration, and none but that; or thus, you are
not now bound by the authority of the law to fulfill it and obey it, so as to have no salvation
without you so do; or thus, if you transgress against any one tittle of it, you by the power
of it must be condemned. No, no, for you are not so under it; that is, not thus under the law.
Again, "For ye are not under the law." What is meant by this word "law"? The word "law," in
Scripture, may be taken more ways than one, as might be largely cleared. There is the law of
faith, the law of sin, the law of men, the law of works, otherwise called the Covenant of Works,
or the first or old covenant. "In that He saith a new covenant," which is the grace of God,
or commonly called the Covenant of Grace, "He hath made the first old," that is, the Covenant
of Works, or the law (Heb 8:13). I say, therefore, the word "law" and the word "grace," in
this Sixth of the Romans, do hold forth the two covenants which all men are under; that is,
either the one or the other. "For ye are not under the law"--that is, you to whom I do now
write these words, who are and have been effectually brought into the faith of Jesus, you are
not under the law, or under the Covenant of Works. He doth not, therefore, apply these words
to all, but to some, when he saith, "But ye"; mark, ye, ye believers, ye converted persons,
ye saints, ye that have been born. (YE) "for ye are not under the law," implying others are
that are in their natural state, that have not been brought in to the Covenant of Grace by
faith in Jesus Christ.

The words, therefore, being thus understood, there is discovered these two truths in them--DOCTRINE
FIRST. That there are some in Gospel times that are under the Covenant of Works. DOCTRINE SECOND.
That there is never a believer under the law, as it is the Covenant of Works, but under grace
through Christ. "For ye," you believers, you converted persons, ye "are not under the law but
under grace"; or, for you are delivered and brought into or under the Covenant of Grace.

DOCTRINE FIRST.

For the first, THAT THERE ARE SOME THAT ARE UNDER THE LAW, OR UNDER THE COVENANT OF WORKS,
see, I pray you, that Scripture in the Third of the Romans, where the Apostle, speaking before
of sins against the law, and of the denunciations thereof against those that are in that condition,
he saith, "What things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law"; mark,
"it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world
become guilty before God" (Rom 3:19). That is, all those that are under the law as a Covenant
of Works, that are yet in their sins, and unconverted, as I told you before. Again he saith,
"But if ye be led by the Spirit, ye are not under the law" (Gal 5:18). Implying again, that
those which are for sinning against the law, or the works of the law, either as it is the old
covenant, these are under the law, and not under the Covenant of Grace. Again he saith, "For
as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse" (Gal 3:10). That is, they that
are under the law are under the curse; for mark, they that are under the Covenant of Grace
are not under the curse. Now, there are but two covenants, therefore, it must needs be that
they that are under the curse are under the law, seeing those that are under the other covenant
are not under the curse, but under the blessing. "So, then, they which be of faith are blessed
with faithful Abraham," but the rest are under the law (Gal 3:9).

Now I shall proceed to what I do intend to speak unto. FIRST. I shall show you what the Covenant
of Works, or the law, is, and when it was first given, together with the nature of it. SECOND.
I shall show you what it is to be under the law, or Covenant of Works, and the miserable state
of all those that are under it. THIRD. I shall show you who they are that are under this covenant,
or law. FOURTH. I shall show you how far a man may go and yet be under this covenant, or law.

[WHAT THE COVENANT OF WORKS IS, AND WHEN IT WAS GIVEN.]

FIRST. What this Covenant of Works is, and when it was given. [What this covenant is.] The
Covenant of Works or the law, here spoken of, is the law delivered upon Mount Sinai to Moses,
in two tables of stone, in ten particular branches or heads; for this see Galatians 4. The
Apostle, speaking there of the law, and of some also that through delusions of false doctrine
were brought again, as it were, under it, or at least were leaning that way (verse 21) he saith,
As for you that desire to be under the law, I will show you the mystery of Abraham's two sons,
which he had by Hagar and Sarah; these two do signify the two covenants; the one named Hagar
signifies Mount Sinai, where the law was delivered to Moses on two tables of stone (Exo 24:12;
34:1; Deu 10:1). Which is that, that whosoever is under, he is destitute of, and altogether
without the grace of Christ in his heart at the present. "For I testify again to every man,"
saith he, speaking to the same people, that "Christ has become of no effect unto you, whosoever
of you are justified by the law," namely, that given on Mount Sinai--"ye are fallen from grace"
(Gal 5:3,4). That is, not that any can be justified by the law; but this meaning is, that all
those that seek justification by the works of the law, they are not such as seek to be under
the second covenant, the Covenant of Grace. Also the Apostle, speaking again of these two covenants,
saith, "But if the ministration of death," or the law, for it is all one, "written and engraven
in stones," mark that, "was glorious, how shall not the ministration of the Spirit," or the
Covenant of Grace, "be rather glorious?" (2 Cor 3:7,8). As if he had said, It is true, there
was a glory in the Covenant of Works, and a very great excellency did appear in it--namely,
in that given in the stones on Sinai--yet there is another covenant, the Covenant of Grace,
that doth exceed it for comfort and glory. (Gen 2:16,17). Which commandment then given to Adam
did contain in it a forbidding to do any of those things that was and is accounted evil, although
at that time it did not appear so plainly, in so many particular heads, as it did when it was
again delivered on Mount Sinai; but yet the very same. And that I shall prove thus--

God commanded Adam in Paradise to abstain from all evil against the first covenant, and not
from some sins only; but if God had not commanded Adam to abstain from the sins spoken against
in the Ten Commandments, He had not commanded to abstain from all, but from some; therefore
it must needs be that He then commanded to abstain from all sins forbidden in the law given
on Mount Sinai. Now that God commanded to abstain from all evil or sin against any of the Ten
Commandments, when He gave Adam the command in the garden, it is evident that He did punish
the sins that were committed against those commands that were then delivered on Mount Sinai,
before they were delivered on Mount Sinai, which will appear as followeth--

The First, Second, and Third Commandments were broken by Pharaoh and his men; for they had
false gods which the Lord executed judgment against (Exo 12:12); and blasphemed their true
God (Exo 5:2) which escaped not punishment (Exo 7:17-25). For their gods could neither deliver
themselves nor their people from the hand of God; but "in the thing wherein they dealt proudly,
He was above them" (Exo 18:11).

Again; some judge that the Lord punished the sin against the Second Commandment, which Jacob
was in some measure guilty of in not purging his house from false gods, with the defiling of
his daughter Dinah (Gen 34:2).

Again; we find that Abimelech thought the sin against the Third Commandment so great, that
he required no other security of Abraham against the fear of mischief that might be done to
him by Abraham, his son, and his son's son, but only Abraham's oath (Gen 21:23). The like we
see between Abimelech and Isaac (Gen 31:53). The like we find in Moses and the Israelites,
who durst not leave the bones of Joseph in Egypt, because of the oath of the Lord, whose name,
by so doing, would have been abused (Exo 13:19).

And we find the Lord rebuking His people for the breach of the Fourth Commandment (Exo 16:27-29).

And for the breach of the Fifth, the curse came upon Ham (Gen 9:25-27). And Ishmael dishonouring
his father in mocking Isaac was cast out, as we read (Gen 21:9,10). The sons-in-law of Lot
for slighting their father perish in the overthrow of Sodom (Gen 19:14).

The Sixth Commandment was broken by Cain, and so dreadful a curse and punishment came upon
him that it made him cry out, "My punishment is greater than I can bear" (Gen 4:13).

Again; when Esau threatened to slay his brother, Rebecca sent him away, saying, "Why should
I be deprived also of you both in one day?" hinting unto us, that she knew murder was to be
punished with death (Gen 27:45) which the Lord Himself declared likewise to Noah (Gen 9:6).3
Again; a notable example of the Lord's justice in punishing murder we see in the Egyptians
and Pharaoh, who drowned the Israelites' children in the river (Exo 1:22); and they themselves
were drowned in the sea (Exo 14:27).

The sin against the Seventh Commandment was punished in the Sodomites, etc., with the utter
destruction of their city and themselves (Gen 19:24,25). Yea, they suffer "the vengeance of
eternal fire" (Jude 7). Also the male Shechemites, for the sin committed by Hamor's son, were
all put to the sword (Gen 34:25,26).

Our first parents sinned against the Eighth Commandment in taking the forbidden fruit, and
so brought the curse on themselves and their posterity (Gen 3:16). Again; the punishment due
to the breach of this Commandment was by Jacob accounted death (Gen 31:30,32). And also by
Jacob's sons (Gen 44:9,10).

Cain sinning against the Ninth Commandment as in Genesis 4:9, was therefore cursed as to the
earth (Verse 11). And Abraham, though the friend of God, was blamed for false-witness by Pharaoh,
and sent out of Egypt (Gen 12:18-20) and both he and Sarah reproved by Abimelech (Gen 20:9,10,16).

Pharaoh sinned against the Tenth Commandment, and was therefore plagued with great plagues
(Gen 12:15,17). Abimelech coveted Abraham's wife, and the Lord threatened death to him and
his, except he restored her again; yea, though he had not come near her, yet for coveting and
taking her the Lord fast closed up the wombs of his house (Gen 20:3,18).

[Further Arguments.] I could have spoken more fully to this, but that I would not be too tedious,
but speak what I have to say with as much brevity as I can. But before I pass it, I will besides
this give you an argument or two more for the further clearing of this, that the substance
of the law delivered on Mount Sinai was, before that, delivered by the Lord to man in the garden.
As, first, "death reigned over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression"--that
is, though they did not take the forbidden fruit as Adam did; but had the transgression been
no other, or had their sin been laid to the charge of none but those that did eat of that fruit,
then those that were born to Adam after he was shut out of the garden had not had sin, in that
they did not actually eat of that fruit, and so had not been slaves to death; but, in that
death did reign from Adam to Moses, of from the time of his transgression against the first
giving of the law, till the time the law was given on Mount Sinai, it is evident that the substance
of the Ten Commandments was given to Adam and his posterity under that command, "Eat not of
the tree that is in the midst of the garden." But yet, if any shall say that it was because
of the sin of their father that death reigned over them, to that I shall answer, that although
original sin be laid to the charge of his posterity, yet it is also for their sins that they
actually committed that they were plagued. And again, saith the Apostle, "For where no law
is, there is no transgression" (Rom 4:15). For "sin is not imputed when there is no law; nevertheless
death reigned from Adam to Moses." saith he (Rom 5:13,14). But if there had been no law, then
there had been no transgression, and so no death to follow after as the wages thereof; for
death is the wages of sin (Rom 6:23) and sin is the breach of the law; an actual breach in
our particular persons, as well as an actual breach in our public person (1 John 3:4). 4

Again; there are no other sins than those against that law given on Sinai, for the which those
sins before mentioned were punished; therefore the law given before by the Lord to Adam and
his posterity is the same with that afterwards given on Mount Sinai. Again; the conditions
of that on Sinai and of that in the garden are all one; the one saying, "Do this and live,"
the other saying the same. Also judgment denounced against men in both kinds alike; therefore
this law it appeareth to be the very same that was given on Mount Sinai.

Again; the Apostle speaketh but of two covenants--to wit, grace and works--under which two
covenants all are; some under one, and some under the other. Now this to Adam is one, therefore
that on Sinai is one, and all one with this; and that this is a truth, I say, I know, because
the sins against that on Sinai were punished by God for the breech thereof before it was given
there; so it doth plainly appear to be a truth; for it would be unrighteous with God for to
punish for that law that was not broken; therefore it was all one with that on Sinai.

Now the law given on Sinai was for the more clear discovery of those sins that were before
committed against it; for though the very substance of the Ten Commandments were given in the
garden before they were received from Sinai, yet they lay so darkly in the heart of man, that
his sins were not so clearly discovered as afterwards they were; therefore, saith the Apostle,
the law was added (Gal 3:19). Or, more plainly, given on Sinai, on tables of stone, "that the
offence might abound,"--that is, that it might the more clearly be made manifest and appear
(Rom 5:20).

Again; we have a notable resemblance of this at Sinai, even in giving the law; for, first,
the law was given twice on Sinai, to signify that indeed the substance of it was given before.
And, secondly, the first tables that were given on Sinai were broken at the foot of the mount,
and the others were preserved whole, to signify that though it was the true law that was given
before, with that given on Sinai, yet it was not so easy to be read and to be taken notice
of, in that the stones were not whole, but broken, and so the law written thereon somewhat
defaced and disfigured.

[Object.] But if any object and say, though the sins against the one be the sins against the
other, and so in that they do agree, yet it doth not appear that the same is therefore the
same Covenant of Works with the other.

Answ. That which was given to Adam in Paradise you will grant was the Covenant of Works; for
it runs thus: Do this and live; do it not and die; nay, "Thou shalt surely die." Now there
is but one Covenant of Works. If therefore I prove that that which was delivered on Mount Sinai
is the Covenant of Works, then all will be put out of doubt. Now that this is so it is evident--

1. Consider the two covenants are thus called in Scripture, the one the administration of death,
and the other the administration of life; the one the Covenant of Works, the other of grace;
but that delivered on Sinai is called the ministration of death; that, therefore, is the Covenant
of Works. "But if," saith he, "the ministration of death, written and engraven on stones was
glorious," (2 Cor 3:7).

2. The Apostle, writing to the Galatians, doth labour to beat them off from trusting in the
Covenant of Works; but when he comes to give a discovery of that law or covenant--he labouring
to take them off from trusting in it--he doth plainly tell them it is that which was given
on Sinai (Gal 4:24,25). Therefore that which was delivered in two tables of stone on Mount
Sinai, is the very same thing that was given before to Adam in Paradise, they running both
alike; that in the garden saying, Do this and live; but in the day thou eatest thereof--or
dost not do this--thou shalt surely die.

And so is this on Sinai, as is evident when he saith, "the man which doeth those things shall
live by them" (Rom 10:5). Now this being thus cleared, I shall proceed.

[WHAT IT IS TO BE UNDER THE COVENANT OF WORKS.]

SECOND. A second thing to be spoken to is this: to show what it is to be under the law as it
is a Covenant of Works; to which I shall speak, and that thus--

To be under the law as it is a Covenant of Works, is to be bound, upon pain of eternal damnation,
to fulfill, and that completely and continually, every particular point of the Ten Commandments,
by doing them--Do this, and then thou shalt live; otherwise, "cursed is every one that continueth
not in all," in every particular thing or "things which are written in the book for the law
to do them" (Gal 3:10). That man that is under the first covenant stands thus, and only thus,
as he is under that covenant, or law. Poor souls, through ignorance of the nature of that Covenant
of Works, the law that they are under, they do not think their state to be half so bad as it
is; when, alas! there is none in the world in such a sad condition again besides themselves;
for, indeed, they do not understand these things. He that is under the law, as it is a Covenant
of Works, is like the man that is bound by the law of his king, upon pain of banishment, or
of being hanged, drawn, and quartered, not to transgress any of the commandments of the king;
so here, they that are under the Covenant of Works, they are bound, upon pain of eternal banishment
and condemnation, to keep within the compass of the law of the God of Heaven. The Covenant
of Works may, in this case, be compared to the laws of the Medes and Persians, which being
once made, cannot be altered. Daniel 6:8. You find that when there was a law made and given
forth that none should ask a petition of any, God or man, but of the king only; this law being
established by the king (verse 9). Daniel breaking of it, let all do whatever they can, Daniel
must go into the lions' den (verse 16). So here, I say, there being a law given, and sealed
with the Truth and the Word of God,--how that "the soul that sinneth, it shall die" (Eze 18:4).
Whosoever doth abide under this covenant, and dieth under the same, they must and shall go
into the lion's den; yea, worse than that, for they shall be thrown into Hell, to the very devils.

But to speak in a few particulars for thy better understanding herein, know,

First. That the Law of God, or Covenant of Works, doth not contain itself in one particular
branch of the law, but doth extend itself into many, even into all the Ten Commandments, and
those ten into very many more, as might be showed; so that the danger doth not lie in the breaking
of one or two of these ten only, but it doth lie even in the transgression of any one of them.
As you know, if a king should give forth ten particular commands to be obeyed by his subjects
upon pain of death; now if any man doth transgress against any one of these ten, he doth commit
treason, as if he had broke them all, and lieth liable to have the sentence of the law as certainly
passed on him as if he had broken every particular of them.

