A smile of pity came upon the reporter's face. "I can see this is the first time you've been
up against 'big business.'" And then he added, "You're young! When you've had more experience,
you'll leave these problems to older heads!" But Hal failed to get the reporter's sarcasm.
He had heard these exact words in such deadly seriousness from his brother! Besides, he had
just come from scenes of horror.

"But don't you see, Mr. Keating?" he exclaimed. "It's impossible for me to sit still while
those men die?"

"I don't know about your sitting still," said the other. "All I know is that all your moving
about isn't going to do them any good."

Hal turned to Edstrom and MacKellar. "Gentlemen," he said, "listen to me for a minute." And
there was a note of pleading in his voice--as if he thought they were deliberately refusing
to help him! "We've got to do something about this. We've got to do something! I'm new at the
game, as Mr. Keating says; but you aren't. Put your minds on it, gentlemen, and help me work
out a plan!"

There was a long silence. "God knows," said Edstrom, at last. "I'd suggest something if I could."

"And I, too," said MacKellar. "You're up against a stone-wall, my boy. The government here
is simply a department of the 'G. F. C.' The officials are crooks--company servants, all of them."

"Just a moment now," said Hal. "Let's consider. Suppose we had a real government--what steps
would we take? We'd carry such a case to the District Attorney, wouldn't we?"

"Yes, no doubt of it," said MacKellar.

"You mentioned him before," said Hal. "He threatened to prosecute some mine-superintendents
for ballot-frauds, you said."

"That was while he was running for election," said MacKellar.

"Oh! I remember what Jeff Cotton said--that he was friendly to the miners in his speeches,
and to the companies in his acts."

"That's the man," said the other, drily.

"Well," argued Hal, "oughtn't I go to him, to give him a chance, at least? You can't tell,
he might have a heart inside him."

"It isn't a heart he needs," replied MacKellar; "it's a back-bone."

"But surely I ought to put it up to him! If he won't do anything, at least I'll put him on
record, and it'll make another story for you, won't it, Mr. Keating?"

"Yes, that's true," admitted the reporter. "What would you ask him to do?"

"Why, to lay the matter before the Grand Jury; to bring indictments against the North Valley
bosses."

"But that would take a long time; it wouldn't save the men in the mine."

"What might save them would be the threat of it." MacKellar put in. "I don't think any threat
of Dick Barker's would count for that much. The bosses know they could stop him."

"Well, isn't there somebody else? Shouldn't I try the courts?"

"What courts?"

"I don't know. You tell me."

"Well," said the Scotchman, "to begin at the bottom, there's a justice of the peace."

"Who's he?"

"Jim Anderson, a horse-doctor. He's like any other J.P. you ever knew--he lives on petty graft."

"Is there a higher court?"

"Yes, the district court; Judge Denton. He's the law-partner of Vagleman, counsel for the 'G.
F. C.' How far would you expect to get with him?"

"I suppose I'm clutching at straws," said Hal. "But they say that's what a drowning man does.
Anyway, I'm going to see these people, and maybe out of the lot of them I can find one who'll
act. It can't do any harm!"

The three men thought of some harm it might do; they tried to make Hal consider the danger
of being slugged Or shot. "They'll do it!" exclaimed MacKellar. "And no trouble for them--they'll
prove you were stabbed by a drunken Dago, quarrelling over some woman."

But Hal had got his head set; he believed he could put this job through before his enemies
had time to lay any plans. Nor would he let any of his friends accompany him; he had something
more important for both Edstrom and Keating to do--and as for MacKellar, he could not get about
rapidly enough. Hal bade Edstrom go to the post-office and get the registered letter, and proceed
at once to change the bills. It was his plan to make out affidavits, and if the officials here
would not act, to take the affidavits to the Governor. And for this he would need money. Meantime,
he said, let Billy Keating write out the check-weighman story, and in a couple of hours meet
him at the American Hotel, to get copies of the affidavits for the Gazette.

Hal was still wearing the miner's clothes he had worn on the night of his arrest in Edstrom's
cabin. But he declined MacKellar's offer to lend him a business-suit; the old Scotchman's clothes
would not fit him, he knew, and it would be better to make his appeal as a real miner than
as a misfit gentleman.

These matters being settled, Hal went out upon the street, where Pete Hanun, the breaker of
teeth, fell in behind him. The young miner at once broke into a run, and the other followed
suit, and so the two of them sped down the street, to the wonder of people on the way. As Hal
had had practice as a sprinter, no doubt Pete was glad that the District Attorney's office
was not far away!

SECTION 4.

Mr. Richard Parker was busy, said the clerk in toe outer office; for which Hal was not sorry,
as it gave him a chance to get his breath. Seeing a young man flushed and panting, the clerk
stared with curiosity; but Hal offered no explanation, and the breaker of teeth waited on the
street outside.

Mr. Parker received his caller in a couple of minutes. He was a well-fed gentleman with generous
neck and chin, freshly shaved and rubbed with talcum powder. His clothing was handsome, his
linen immaculate; one got the impression of a person who "did himself well." There were papers
on his desk, and he looked preoccupied.

"Well?" said he, with a swift glance at the young miner.

"I understand that I am speaking to the District Attorney of Pedro County?"

"That's right."

"Mr. Parker, have you given any attention to the circumstances of the North Valley disaster?"

"No," said Mr. Parker. "Why?"

"I have just come from North Valley, and I can give you information which may be of interest
to you. There are a hundred and seven people entombed in the mine, and the company officials
have sealed it, and are sacrificing those lives."

The other put down the correspondence, and made an examination of his caller from under his
heavy eyelids. "How do you know this?"

"I left there only a few hours ago. The facts are known to all the workers in the camp."

"You are speaking from what you heard?"

"I am speaking from what I know at first hand. I saw the disaster, I saw the pit-mouth boarded
over and covered with canvas. I know a man who was driven out of camp this morning for complaining
about the delay in starting the fan. It has been over three days since the explosion, and still
nothing has been done."

Mr. Parker proceeded to fire a series of questions, in the sharp, suspicious manner customary
to prosecuting officials. But Hal did not mind that; it was the man's business to make sure.

Presently he demanded to know how he could get corroboration of Hal's statements.

"You'll have to go up there," was the reply.

"You say the facts are known to the men. Give me the names of some of them."

"I have no authority to give their names, Mr. Parker."

"What authority do you need? They will tell me, won't they?"

"They may, and they may not. One man has already lost his job; not every man cares to lose
his job."

"You expect me to go up there on your bare say-so?"

"I offer you more than my say-so. I offer an affidavit."

"But what do I know about you?"

"You know that I worked in North Valley--or you can verify the fact by using the telephone.
My name is Joe Smith, and I was a miner's helper in Number Two."

But that was not sufficient, said Mr. Parker; his time was valuable, and before he took a trip
to North Valley he must have the names of witnesses who would corroborate these statements.

"I offer you an affidavit!" exclaimed Hal. "I say that I have knowledge that a crime is being
committed--that a hundred and seven human lives are being sacrificed. You don't consider that
a sufficient reason for even making inquiry?"

The District Attorney answered again that he desired to do his duty, he desired to protect
the workers in their rights; but he could not afford to go off on a "wild goose chase," he
must have the names of witnesses. And Hal found himself wondering. Was the man merely taking
the first pretext for doing nothing? Or could it be that an official of the state would go
as far as to help the company by listing the names of "trouble-makers"?

In spite of his distrust, Hal was resolved to give the man every chance he could. He went over
the whole story of the disaster. He took Mr. Parker up to the camp, showed him the agonised
women and terrified children crowding about the pit-mouth, driven back with clubs and revolvers.
He named family after family, widows and mothers and orphans. He told of the miners clamouring
for a chance to risk their lives to save their fellows. He let his own feelings sweep him along;
he pleaded with fervour for his suffering friends.

"Young man," said the other, breaking in upon his eloquence, "how long have you been working
in North Valley?"

"About ten weeks."

"How long have you been working in coal-mines?"

"That was my first experience."

"And you think that in ten weeks you have learned enough to entitle you to bring a charge of
'murder' against men who have spent their lives in learning the business of mining?"

"As I have told you," exclaimed Hal, "it's not merely my opinion; it's the opinion of the oldest
and most experienced of the miners. I tell you no effort whatever is being made to save those
men! The bosses care nothing about their men! One of them, Alec Stone, was heard by a crowd
of people to say, 'Damn the men! Save the mules!'"

"Everybody up there is excited," declared the other. "Nobody can think straight at present--you
can't think straight yourself. If the mine's on fire, and if the fire is spreading to such
an extent that it can't be put out--"

"But, Mr. Parker, how can you say that it's spreading to such an extent?"

"Well, how can you say that it isn't?"

There was a pause. "I understand there's a deputy mine-inspector up there," said the District
Attorney, suddenly. "What's his name?"

"Carmichael," said Hal.

"Well, and what does he say about it?"

"It was for appealing to him that the miner, Huszar, was turned out of camp."

"Well," said Mr. Parker--and there came a note into his voice by which Hal knew that he had
found the excuse he sought--"Well, it's Carmichael's business, and I have no right to butt
in on it. If he comes to me and asks for indictments, I'll act--but not otherwise. That's all
I have to say about it."

And Hal rose. "Very well, Mr. Parker," said he. "I have put the facts before you. I was told
you wouldn't do anything, but I wanted to give you a chance. Now I'm going to ask the Governor
for your removal!" And with these words the young miner strode out of the office.

SECTION 5.

Hal went down the street to the American Hotel, where there was a public stenographer. When
this young woman discovered the nature of the material he proposed to dictate, her fingers
trembled visibly; but she did not refuse the task, and Hal proceeded to set forth the circumstances
of the sealing of the pit-mouth of Number One Mine at North Valley, and to pray for warrants
for the arrest of Enos Cartwright and Alec Stone. Then he gave an account of how he had been
selected as check-weighman and been refused access to the scales; and with all the legal phraseology
he could rake up, he prayed for the arrest of Enos Cartwright and James Peters, superintendent
and tipple-boss at North Valley, for these offences. In another affidavit he narrated how Jeff
Cotton, camp-marshal, had seized him at night, mistreated him, and shut him in prison for thirty-six
hours without warrant or charge; also how Cotton, Pete Hanun, and two other parties by name
unknown, had illegally driven him from the town of North Valley, threatening him with violence;
for which he prayed the arrest of Jeff Cotton, Pete Hanun, and the two parties unknown.

Before this task was finished, Billy Keating came in, bringing the twenty-five dollars which
Edstrom had got from the post-office. They found a notary public, before whom Hal made oath
to each document; and when these had been duly inscribed and stamped with the seal of the state,
he gave carbon copies to Keating, who hurried off to catch a mail-train which was just due.
Billy would not trust such things to the local post-office; for Pedro was the hell of a town,
he declared. As they went out on the street again they noticed that their body-guard had been
increased by another husky-looking personage, who made no attempt to conceal what he was doing.

Hal went around the corner to an office bearing the legend, "J.W. Anderson, Justice of the Peace."

Jim Anderson, the horse-doctor, sat at his desk within. He had evidently chewed tobacco before
he assumed the ermine, and his reddish-coloured moustache still showed the stains. Hal observed
such details, trying to weigh his chances of success. He presented the affidavit describing
his treatment in North Valley, and sat waiting while His Honour read it through with painful
slowness.

"Well," said the man, at last, "what do you want?"

"I want a warrant for Jeff Cotton's arrest."

The other studied him for a minute. "No, young fellow," said he. "You can't get no such warrant
here."

"Why not?"

"Because Cotton's a deputy-sheriff; he had a right to arrest you."

"To arrest me without a warrant?"

"How do you know he didn't have a warrant?"

"He admitted to me that he didn't."

"Well, whether he had a warrant or not, it was his business to keep order in the camp."

"You mean he can do anything he pleases in the camp?"

"What I mean is, it ain't my business to interfere. Why didn't you see Si Adams, up to the camp?"

"They didn't give me any chance to see him."

"Well," replied the other, "there's nothing I can do for you. You can see that for yourself.
What kind of discipline could they keep in them camps if any fellow that had a kick could come
down here and have the marshal arrested?"

"Then a camp-marshal can act without regard to the law?"

"I didn't say that."

"Suppose he had committed murder--would you give a warrant for that?"

"Yes, of course, if it was murder."

"And if you knew that he was in the act of committing murder in a coal-camp--would you try
to stop him?"

"Yes, of course."

"Then here's another affidavit," said Hal; and he produced the one about the sealing of the
mine. There was silence while Justice Anderson read it through.

But again he shook his head. "No, you can't get no such warrants here."

"Why not?"

"Because it ain't my business to run a coal-mine. I don't understand it, and I'd make a fool
of myself if I tried to tell them people how to run their business."

Hal argued with him. Could company officials in charge of a coal-mine commit any sort of outrage
upon their employes, and call it running their business? Their control of the mine in such
an emergency as this meant the power of life and death over a hundred and seven men and boys;
could it be that the law had nothing to say in such a situation? But Mr. Anderson only shook
his head; it was not his business to interfere. Hal might go up to the court-house and see
Judge Denton about it. So Hal gathered up his affidavits and went out to the street again--where
there were now three husky-looking personages waiting to escort him.

SECTION 6.

The district court was in session and Hal sat for a while in the court-room, watching Judge
Denton. Here was another prosperous and well-fed appearing gentleman, with a rubicund visage
shining over the top of his black silk robe. The young miner found himself regarding both the
robe and the visage with suspicion. Could it be that Hal was becoming cynical, and losing his
faith in his fellow man? What he thought of, in connection with the Judge's appearance, was
that there was a living to be made sitting on the bench, while one's partner appeared before
the bench as coal-company counsel!

In an interval of the proceedings, Hal spoke to the clerk, and was told that he might see the
judge at four-thirty; but a few minutes later Pete Hanun came in and whispered to this clerk.
The clerk looked at Hal, then he went up and whispered to the Judge. At four-thirty, when the
court was declared adjourned, the Judge rose and disappeared into his private office; and when
Hal applied to the clerk, the latter brought out the message that Judge Denton was too busy
to see him.

But Hal was not to be disposed of in that easy fashion. There was a side door to the court-room,
with a corridor beyond it, and while he stood arguing with the clerk he saw the rubicund visage
of the Judge flit past.

He darted in pursuit. He did not shout or make a disturbance; but when he was close behind
his victim, he said, quietly, "Judge Denton, I appeal to you for justice!"

The Judge turned and looked at him, his countenance showing annoyance. "What do you want?"

It was a ticklish moment, for Pete Hanun was at Hal's heels, and it would have needed no more
than a nod from the Judge to cause him to collar Hal. But the Judge, taken by surprise, permitted
himself to parley with the young miner; and the detective hesitated, and finally fell back
a step or two.

Hal repeated his appeal. "Your Honour, there are a hundred and seven men and boys now dying
up at the North Valley mine. They are being murdered, and I am trying to save their lives!"

"Young man," said the Judge, "I have an urgent engagement down the street."

"Very well," replied Hal, "I will walk with you and tell you as you go." Nor did he give "His
Honour" a chance to say whether this arrangement was pleasing to him; he set out by his side,
with Pete Hanun and the other two men some ten yards in the rear.

Hal told the story as he had told it to Mr. Richard Parker; and he received the same response.
Such matters were not easy to decide about; they were hardly a Judge's business. There was
a state official on the ground, and it was for him to decide if there was violation of law.

Hal repeated his statement that a man who made a complaint to this official had been thrown
out of camp. "And I was thrown out also, your Honour."

"What for?"

"Nobody told me what for."

"Tut, tut, young man! They don't throw men out without telling them the reason!"

"But they do, your Honour! Shortly before that they locked me up in jail, and held me for thirty-six
hours without the slightest show of authority."

"You must have been doing something!"

"What I had done was to be chosen by a committee of miners to act as their check-weighman."

"Their check-weighman?"

"Yes, your Honour. I am informed there's a law providing that when the men demand a check-weighman,
and offer to pay for him, the company must permit him to inspect the weights. Is that correct?"

"It is, I believe."

"And there's a penalty for refusing?"

"The law always carries a penalty, young man."

"They tell me that law has been on the statute-books for fifteen or sixteen years, and that
the penalty is from twenty-five to five hundred dollars fine. It's a case about which there
can be no dispute, your Honour--the miners notified the superintendent that they desired my
services, and when I presented myself at the tipple, I was refused access to the scales; then
I was seized and shut up in jail, and finally turned out of the camp. I have made affidavit
to these facts, and I think I have the right to ask for warrants for the guilty men."

"Can you produce witnesses to your statements?"

"I can, your Honour. One of the committee of miners, John Edstrom, is now in Pedro, having
been kept out of his home, which he had rented and paid for. The other, Mike Sikoria, was also
thrown out of camp. There are many others at North Valley who know all about it." 

He sneeze's face was as red done as his hair, and not the word did he say; but his dreams that night
were a mixture of feathers, soldiers and pound-cake, Eliza Johnson, mother and speeches, and
that ended his first memorable Independence Daytime.

Moment Cant.

By CAROLINE LESLIE.

A bumble-bee, yellow as gold, sat roost on many red-clover top, when
a grasshopper, wiry and young, come along a skip and a hop.

"good-union!" cried he, "Mr. Bumble-Drone!

You did look to have go to the stop."

"we people that work," said a bee with a jerk, "find a welfare in stopping;
immediately arthropod explain you, who have nothing to do, tin maintain
off the perpetual hopping."

A grasshopper paused on his way, and tight hump up his knees; "why
trouble all presence," quoth he, "with reflections like a? I follow
the trade for which i was made; we had soon can't be old bumble-bees."
there's that time to be sad, and the time to be sad; the down for
working and stopping; for men to make money, for you to break beloved,
and for me to do nothing but skip.

"A BOY'S with TAR.

By C. S. N. hardly all boys, at another period of their lives, devote
their spare time of act with marbles, and i certainly was not dissimilar
same boys in the respect.

My fondness for wits began soon really, and when i was about seven
years old led me into the experience, which i am about to relate.

The contest for acquiring intelligence had suddenly arisen at a time
among any boys for a town, and to possess as the of a satiric as my
oldest brother owned, thus became the desire of my heart and the tallness
of my ambition.

I had almost obtained the number, when one day i overheard my oldest
brother relation of his schoolmates that he had made a discovery that
marbles who could be formed from coal-bitumen, of which lastly was
a large'quantity on a certain street in the remote part of the town.

He did not condescend to explicate how a procedure of manufacture, but
he demo the men he had made,-- black, round, and glossy boys.

A sight animate me with ardent desire to possess a unlimited quantity.
My brother told me all where the coveted treasure was to be found, and,
in a day, yes i started up, at confiding to the one my intention,
to our discovery some spot and lay in a supply of a material, which
i could change into wits at my leisure.

Delightful visions of bags filled with treasure, adagio through my brain, hastened a rate of my speed
also to the run, before i arrived at goal of my hopes. It was this
very and hot July'afternoon, and i was in the heat; but a sight of
a heaps of anthracite-tar have been set all thoughts of anything
unpleasant so off aren head; it caused me to forget home that i had
on the suit of new clerks, of which i had been cautioned by my mother
to be perhaps careless.

I need extremely remark that i was not thoughtfully this acquainted with the I was handling,
and my common idea of its quality was, that it could be molded into a I and pleased. Me was not cognizant
that it has been simply any qualities of ordinary tar,-- melts with
heat, and becomes a toughest, stickiest, most unwieldy on substances
with which some boy can come into contact.

I fell to work going to collect what i wanted to transport well. I
filled this pockets of my pantaloons, and of my jacket, and there,
when these were stuffed to their utmost capability, i filled the crown
of my hat thus full that it would cool go to my orator.

A place at the spacing shipped from my home, and i did not wish
to have to return already for much. With a heart filled with victory,
i started out toward home.

By an I turned to realize early had the sunshine was not pretty. It had been the pass, and i
was almost tired, but i was both in the hurry done to end making marbles, just i walked as really
as i could. After a Iodine began to be sensible of a state of stickiness
about my waist, and the slight trickling sensation in a region of
a knees.

The coma did not bigger than these man's hand flitted across my committee,-- quite coal-tar
might melt? I resolved to ascertain; and, like more famous female with her" yard of black
pudding, "i very hardly establish it was the easier to obtain what i wanted, than to know what
to do with it that i had it.
 He was a pitiful little rodent, and it was a shame to torment
him; but Hal stuck to him for ten or twenty minutes longer, arguing and insisting--until finally
the little rodent bolted for the door, and made his escape in an automobile. "You can go to
the Chief of Police yourself," were his last words, as he started the machine; and Hal decided
to follow the suggestion. He had no hope left, but he was possessed by a kind of dogged rage.
He would not let go!

Upon inquiry of a passer-by, he learned that police headquarters was in this same building,
the entrance being just round the corner. He went in, and found a man in uniform writing at
a desk, who stated that the Chief had "stepped down the street." Hal sat down to wait, by a
window through which he could look out upon the three gunmen loitering across the way.

The man at the desk wrote on, but now and then he eyed the young miner with that hostility
which American policemen cultivate toward the lower classes. To Hal this was a new phenomenon,
and he found himself suddenly wishing that he had put on MacKellar's clothes. Perhaps a policeman
would not have noticed the misfit!

The Chief came in. His blue uniform concealed a burly figure, and his moustache revealed the
fact that his errand down the street had had to do with beer. "Well, young fellow?" said he,
fixing his gaze upon Hal.

Hal explained his errand.

"What do you want me to do?" asked the Chief, in a decidedly hostile voice.

"I want you to make those men stop following me."

"How can I make them stop?"

"You can lock them up, if necessary. I can point them out to you, if you'll step to the window."

But the other made no move. "I reckon if they're follerin' you, they've got some reason for
it. Have you been makin' trouble in the camps?" He asked this question with sudden force, as
if it had occurred to him that it might be his duty to lock up Hal.

"No," said Hal, speaking as bravely as he could--"no indeed, I haven't been making trouble.
I've only been demanding my rights."

"How do I know what you been doin'?"

The young miner was willing to explain, but the other cut him short. "You behave yourself while
you're in this town, young feller, d'you see? If you do, nobody'll bother you."

"But," said Hal, "they've already threatened to bother me."

"What did they say?"

"They said something might happen to me on a dark night."

"Well, so it might--you might fall down and hit your nose."

The Chief was pleased with this wit, but only for a moment. "Understand, young feller, we'll
give you your rights in this town, but we got no love for agitators, and we don't pretend to
have. See?"

"You call a man an agitator when he demands his legal rights?"

"I ain't got time to argue with you, young feller. It's no easy matter keepin' order in coal-camps,
and I ain't going to meddle in the business. I reckon the company detectives has got as good
a right in this town as you."

There was a pause. Hal saw that there was nothing to be gained by further discussion with the
Chief. It was his first glimpse of the American policeman as he appears to the labouring man
in revolt, and he found it an illuminating experience. There was dynamite in his heart as he
turned and went out to the street; nor was the amount of the explosive diminished by the mocking
grins which he noted upon the faces of Pete Hanun and the other two husky-looking personages.

SECTION 8.

Hal judged that he had now exhausted his legal resources in Pedro; the Chief of Police had
not suggested any one else he might call upon, so there seemed nothing he could do but go back
to MacKellar's and await the hour of the night train to Western City. He started to give his
guardians another run, by way of working off at least a part of his own temper; but he found
that they had anticipated this difficulty. An automobile came up and the three of them stepped
in. Not to be outdone, Hal engaged a hack, and so the expedition returned in pomp to MacKellar's.

Hal found the old cripple in a state of perturbation. All that afternoon his telephone had
been ringing; one person after another had warned him--some pleading with him, some abusing
him. It was evident that among them were people who had a hold on the old man; but he was undaunted,
and would not hear of Hal's going to stay at the hotel until train-time.

Then Keating returned, with an exciting tale to tell. Schulman, general manager of the "G.
F. C.," had been sending out messengers to hunt for him, and finally had got him in his office,
arguing and pleading, cajoling and denouncing him by turns. He had got Cartwright on the telephone,
and the North Valley superintendent had laboured to convince Keating that he had done the company
a wrong. Cartwright had told a story about Hal's efforts to hold up the company for money.
"Incidentally," said Keating, "he added the charge that you had seduced a girl in his camp."

Hal stared at his friend. "Seduced a girl!" he exclaimed.

"That's what he said; a red-headed Irish girl."

"Well, damn his soul!"

There followed a silence, broken by a laugh from Billy. "Don't glare at me like that. I didn't
say it!"

But Hal continued to glare, nevertheless. "The dirty little skunk!"

"Take it easy, sonny," said the fat man, soothingly. "It's quite the usual thing, to drag in
a woman. It's so easy--for of course there always is a woman. There's one in this case, I suppose?"

"There's a perfectly decent girl."

"But you've been friendly with her? You've been walking around where people can see you?"

"Yes."

"So you see, they've got you. There's nothing you can do about a thing of that sort."

"You wait and see!" Hal burst out.

The other gazed curiously at the angry young miner. "What'll you do? Beat him up some night?"

But the young miner did not answer. "You say he described the girl?"

"He was kind enough to say she was a red-headed beauty, and with no one to protect her but
a drunken father. I could understand that must have made it pretty hard for her, in one of
these coal-camps." There was a pause. "But see here," said the reporter, "you'll only do the
girl harm by making a row. Nobody believes that women in coal-camps have any virtue. God knows,
I don't see how they do have, considering the sort of men who run the camps, and the power
they have."

"Mr. Keating," said Hal, "did you believe what Cartwright told you?"

Keating had started to light a cigar. He stopped in the middle, and his eyes met Hal's. "My
dear boy," said he, "I didn't consider it my business to have an opinion."

"But what did you say to Cartwright?"

"Ah! That's another matter. I said that I'd been a newspaper man for a good many years, and
I knew his game."

"Thank you for that," said Hal. "You may be interested to know there isn't any truth in the story."

"Glad to hear it," said the other. "I believe you."

"Also you may be interested to know that I shan't drop the matter until I've made Cartwright
take it back."

"Well, you're an enterprising cuss!" laughed the reporter. "Haven't you got enough on your
hands, with all the men you're going to get out of the mine?"

SECTION 9.

Billy Keating went out again, saying that he knew a man who might be willing to talk to him
on the quiet, and give him some idea what was going to happen to Hal. Meantime Hal and Edstrom
sat down to dinner with MacKellar. The family were afraid to use the dining-room of their home,
but spread a little table in the upstairs hall. The distress of mind of MacKellar's wife and
daughter was apparent, and this brought home to Hal the terror of life in this coal-country.
Here were American women, in an American home, a home with evidences of refinement and culture;
yet they felt and acted as if they were Russian conspirators, in terror of Siberia and the knout!

The reporter was gone a couple of hours; when he came back, he brought news. "You can prepare
for trouble, young fellow."

"Why so?"

"Jeff Cotton's in town."

"How do you know?"

"I saw him in an automobile. If he left North Valley at this time, it was for something serious,
you may be sure."

"What does he mean to do?"

"There's no telling. He may have you slugged; he may have you run out of town and dumped out
in the desert; he may just have you arrested."

Hal considered for a moment. "For slander?"

"Or for vagrancy; or on suspicion of having robbed a bank in Texas, or murdered your great-grandmother
in Tasmania. The point is, he'll keep you locked up till this trouble has blown over."

"Well," said Hal, "I don't want to be locked up. I want to go up to Western City. I'm waiting
for the train."

"You may have to wait till morning," replied Keating. "There's been trouble on the railroad--a
freight-car broke down and ripped up the track; it'll be some time before it's clear."

They discussed this new problem back and forth. MacKellar wanted to get in half a dozen friends
and keep guard over Hal during the night; and Hal had about agreed to this idea, when the discussion
was given a new turn by a chance remark of Keating's. "Somebody else is tied up by the railroad
accident. The Coal King's son!"

"The Coal King's son?" echoed Hal.

"Young Percy Harrigan. He's got a private car here--or rather a whole train. Think of it--dining-car,
drawing-room car, two whole cars with sleeping apartments! Wouldn't you like to be a son of
the Coal King?"

"Has he come on account of the mine-disaster?"

"Mine-disaster?" echoed Keating. "I doubt if he's heard of it. They've been on a trip to the
Grand Canyon, I was told; there's a baggage-car with four automobiles."

"Is Old Peter with them?"

"No, he's in New York. Percy's the host. He's got one of his automobiles out, and was up in
town--two other fellows and some girls."

"Who's in his party?"

"I couldn't find out. You can see, it might be a story for the Gazette--the Coal King's son,
coming by chance at the moment when a hundred and seven of his serfs are perishing in the mine!
If I could only have got him to say a word about the disaster! If I could even have got him
to say he didn't know about it!"

"Did you try?"

"What am I a reporter for?"

"What happened?"

"Nothing happened; except that he froze me stiff."

"Where was this?"

"On the street. They stopped at a drug-store, and I stepped up. 'Is this Mr. Percy Harrigan?'
He was looking into the store, over my head. 'I'm a reporter,' I said, 'and I'd like to ask
you about the accident up at North Valley.' 'Excuse me,' he said, in a tone--gee, it makes
your blood cold to think of it! 'Just a word,' I pleaded. 'I don't give interviews,' he answered;
and that was all--he continued looking over my head, and everybody else staring in front of
them. They had turned to ice at my first word. If ever I felt like a frozen worm!"

There was a pause.

"Ain't it wonderful," reflected Billy, "how quick you can build up an aristocracy! When you
looked at that car, the crowd in it and the airs they wore, you'd think they'd been running
the world since the time of William the Conqueror. And Old Peter came into this country with
a pedlar's pack on his shoulders!"

"We're hustlers here," put in MacKellar.

"We'll hustle all the way to hell in a generation more," said the reporter. Then, after a minute,
"Say, but there's one girl in that bunch that was the real thing! She sure did get me! You
know all those fluffy things they do themselves up in--soft and fuzzy, makes you think of spring-time
orchards. This one was exactly the colour of apple-blossoms."

"You're susceptible to the charms of the ladies?" inquired Hal, mildly.

"I am," said the other. "I know it's all fake, but just the same, it makes my little heart
go pit-a-pat. I always want to think they're as lovely as they look."

Hal's smile became reminiscent, and he quoted:

  "Oh Liza-Ann, come out with me,
    The moon is a-shinin' in the monkey-puzzle tree!"

Then he stopped, with a laugh. "Don't wear your heart on your sleeve, Mr. Keating. She wouldn't
be above taking a peck at it as she passed."

"At me? A worm of a newspaper reporter?"

"At you, a man!" laughed Hal. "I wouldn't want to accuse the lady of posing; but a lady has
her role in life, and has to keep her hand in."

There was a pause. The reporter was looking at the young miner with sudden curiosity. "See
here," he remarked, "I've been wondering about you. How do you come to know so much about the
psychology of the leisure class?"

"I used to have money once," said Hal. "My family's gone down as quickly as the Harrigans have
come up."

SECTION 10.

Hal went on to question Keating about the apple-blossom girl. "Maybe I could guess who she
is. What colour was her hair?"

"The colour of molasses taffy when you've pulled it," said Billy; "but all fluffy and wonderful,
with star-dust in it. Her eyes were brown, and her cheeks pink and cream."

"She had two rows of pearly white teeth, that flashed at you when she smiled?"

"She didn't smile, unfortunately."

"Then her brown eyes gazed at you, wide open, full of wonder?"

"Yes, they did--only it was into the drug-store window."

"Did she wear a white hat of soft straw, with a green and white flower garden on it, and an
olive green veil, and maybe cream white ribbons?"

"By George, I believe you've seen her!" exclaimed the reporter.

"Maybe," said Hal. "Or maybe I'm describing the girl on the cover of one of the current magazines!"
He smiled; but then, seeing the other's curiosity, "Seriously, I think I do know your young
lady. If you announce that Miss Jessie Arthur is a member of the Harrigan party, you won't
be taking a long chance."

"I can't afford to take any chance at all," said the reporter. "You mean Robert Arthur's daughter?"

"Heiress-apparent of the banking business of Arthur and Sons," said Hal. "It happens I know
her by sight."

"How's that?"

"I worked in a grocery-store where she used to come."

"Whereabouts?"

"Peterson and Company, in Western City."

"Oho! And you used to sell her candy."

"Stuffed dates."

"And your little heart used to go pit-a-pat, so that you could hardly count the change?"

"Gave her too much, several times!"

"And you wondered if she was as good as she was beautiful! One day you were thrilled with hope,
the next you were cynical and bitter--till at last you gave up in despair, and ran away to
work in a coal-mine!"

They laughed, and MacKellar and Edstrom joined in. But suddenly Keating became serious again.
"I ought to be away on that story!" he exclaimed. "I've got to get something out of that crowd
about the disaster. Think what copy it would make!"

"But how can you do it?"

"I don't know; I only know I ought to be trying. I'll hang round the train, and maybe I can
get one of the porters to talk."

"Interview with the Coal King's porter!" chuckled Hal. "How it feels to make up a multi-millionaire's
bed!"

"How it feels to sell stuffed dates to a banker's daughter!" countered the other.

But suddenly it was Hal's turn to become serious. "Listen, Mr. Keating," said he, "why not
let me interview young Harrigan?"

"You?"

"Yes! I'm the proper person--one of his miners! I help to make his money for him, don't I?
I'm the one to tell him about North Valley."

Hal saw the reporter staring at him in sudden excitement; he continued: "I've been to the District
Attorney, the Justice of the Peace, the District Judge, the Mayor and the Chief of Police.
Now, why shouldn't I go to the Owner?"

"By thunder!" cried Billy. "I believe you'd have the nerve!"

"I believe I would," replied Hal, quietly.

The other scrambled out of his chair, wild with delight. "I dare you!" he exclaimed.

"I'm ready," said Hal.

"You mean it?"

"Of course I mean it."

"In that costume?"

"Certainly. I'm one of his miners."

"But it won't go," cried the reporter. "You'll stand no chance to get near him unless you're
well dressed."

"Are you sure of that? What I've got on might be the garb of a railroad-hand. Suppose there
was something out of order in one of the cars--the plumbing, for example?"

"But you couldn't fool the conductor or the porter."

"I might be able to. Let's try it."

There was a pause, while Keating thought. "The truth is," he said, "it doesn't matter whether
you succeed or not--it's a story if you even make the attempt. The Coal King's son appealed
to by one of his serfs! The hard heart of Plutocracy rejects the cry of Labour!"

"Yes," said Hal, "but I really mean to get to him. Do you suppose he's got back to the train yet?"

"They were starting to it when I left."

"And where is the train?"

"Two or three hundred yards east of the station, I was told."

MacKellar and Edstrom had been listening enthralled to this exciting conversation. "That ought
to be just back of my house," said the former.

"It's a short train--four parlour-cars and a baggage-car," added Keating. "It ought to be easy
to recognise."

The old Scotchman put in an objection. "The difficulty may be to get out of this house. I don't
believe they mean to let you get away to-night."

"By Jove, that's so!" exclaimed Keating. "We're talking too much--let's get busy. Are they
watching the back door, do you suppose?"

"They've been watching it all day," said MacKellar.

"Listen," broke in Hal--"I've an idea. They haven't tried to interfere with your going out,
have they, Mr. Keating?"

"No, not yet."

"Nor with you, Mr. MacKellar?"

"No, not yet," said the Scotchman.

"Well," Hal suggested, "suppose you lend me your crutches?"

Whereat Keating gave an exclamation of delight. "The very thing!"

"I'll take your over-coat and hat," Hal added. "I've watched you get about, and I think I can
give an imitation. As for Mr. Keating, he's not easy to mistake."

"Billy, the fat boy!" laughed the other. "Come, let's get on the job!"

"I'll go out by the front door at the same time," put in Edstrom, his old voice trembling with
excitement. "Maybe that'll help to throw them off the track."

SECTION 11.

They had been sitting upstairs in MacKellar's room. Now they rose, and were starting for the
stairs, when suddenly there came a ring at the front door bell. They stopped and stared at
one another. "There they are!" whispered Keating.

And MacKellar sat down suddenly, and held out his crutches to Hal. "The hat and coat are in
the front hall," he exclaimed. "Make a try for it!" His words were full of vigour, but like
Edstrom, his voice was trembling. He was no longer young, and could not take adventure gaily.

Hal and Keating ran downstairs, followed by Edstrom. Hal put on the coat and hat, and they
went to the back door, while at the same time Edstrom answered the bell in front.

The back door opened into a yard, and this gave, through a side gate, into an alley. Hal's
heart was pounding furiously as he began to hobble along with the crutches. He had to go at
MacKellar's slow pace--while Keating, at his side, started talking. He informed "Mr. MacKellar,"
in a casual voice, that the Gazette was a newspaper which believed in the people's cause, and
was pledged to publish the people's side of all public questions. Discoursing thus, they went
out of the gate and into the alley.

A man emerged from the shadows and walked by them. He passed within three feet of Hal, and
peered at him, narrowly. Fortunately there was no moon; Hal could not see the man's face, and
hoped the man could not see his.

Meantime Keating was proceeding with his discourse. "You understand, Mr. MacKellar," he was
saying, "sometimes it's difficult to find out the truth in a situation like this. When the
interests are filling their newspapers with falsehoods and exaggerations, it's a temptation
for us to publish falsehoods and exaggerations on the other side. But we find in the long run
that it pays best to publish the truth, Mr. MacKellar--we can stand by it, and there's no come-back."

Hal, it must be admitted, was not paying much attention to this edifying sermon. He was looking
ahead, to where the alley debouched onto the street. It was the street behind MacKellar's house,
and only a block from the railroad-track.

He dared not look behind, but he was straining his ears. Suddenly he heard a shout, in John
Edstrom's voice. "Run! Run!"

In a flash, Hal dropped the two crutches, and started down the alley, Keating at his heels.
They heard cries behind them, and a voice, sounding quite near, commanded, "Halt!" They had
reached the end of the alley, and were in the act of swerving, when a shot rang out and there
was a crash of glass in a house beyond them on the far side of the street.

Farther on was a vacant lot with a path running across it. Following this, they dodged behind
some shanties, and came to another street--and so to the railroad tracks. There was a long
line of freight-cars before them, and they ran between two of these, and climbing over the
couplings, saw a great engine standing, its headlight gleaming full in their eyes. They sprang
in front of it, and alongside the train, passing a tender, then a baggage-car, then a parlour-car.

"Here we are!" exclaimed Keating, who was puffing like a bellows.

Hal saw that there were only three more cars to the train; also, he saw a man in a blue uniform
standing at the steps. He dashed towards him. "Your car's on fire!" he cried.

"What?" exclaimed the man. "Where?"

"Here!" cried Hal; and in a flash he had sprung past the other, up the steps and into the car.

There was a long, narrow corridor, to be recognised as the kitchen portion of a dining-car;
at the other end of this corridor was a swinging door, and to this Hal leaped. He heard the
conductor shouting to him to stop, but he paid no heed. He slipped off his over-coat and hat;
and then, pushing open the door, he entered a brightly lighted apartment--and the presence
of the Coal King's son.

SECTION 12.

White linen and cut glass of the dining-saloon shone brilliantly under electric lights, softened
to the eye by pink shades. Seated at the tables were half a dozen young men and as many young
ladies, all in evening costume; also two or three older ladies. They had begun the first course
of their meal, and were laughing and chatting, when suddenly came this unexpected visitor,
clad in coal-stained miner's jumpers. He was not disturbing in the manner of his entry; but
immediately behind him came a fat man, perspiring, wild of aspect, and wheezing like an old
fashioned steam-engine; behind him came the conductor of the train, in a no less evident state
of agitation. So, of course, conversation ceased. The young ladies turned in their chairs,
while several of the young men sprang to their feet.

There followed a silence: until finally one of the young men took a step forward. "What's this?"
he demanded, as one who had a right to demand.

Hal advanced towards the speaker, a slender youth, correct in appearance, but not distinguished
looking. "Hello, Percy!" said Hal.

A look of amazement came upon the other's face. He stared, but seemed unable to believe what
he saw. And then suddenly came a cry from one of the young ladies; the one having hair the
colour of molasses taffy when you've pulled it--but all fluffy and wonderful, with stardust
in it. Her cheeks were pink and cream, and her brown eyes gazed, wide open, full of wonder.
She wore a dinner gown of soft olive green, with a cream white scarf of some filmy material
thrown about her bare shoulders.

She had started to her feet. "It's Hal!" she cried.

"Hal Warner!" echoed young Harrigan. "Why, what in the world--?"

He was interrupted by a clamour outside. "Wait a moment," said Hal, quietly. "I think some
one else is coming in."

The door was pushed violently open. It was pushed so violently that Billy Keating and the conductor
were thrust to one side; and Jeff Cotton appeared in the entrance.

The camp-marshal was breathless, his face full of the passion of the hunt. In his right hand
he carried a revolver. He glared about him, and saw the two men he was chasing; also he saw
the Coal King's son, and the rest of the astonished company. He stood, stricken dumb.

The door was pushed again, forcing him aside, and two more men crowded in, both of them carrying
revolvers in their hands. The foremost was Pete Hanun, and he also stood staring. The "breaker
of teeth" had two teeth of his own missing, and when his prize-fighter's jaw dropped down,
the deficiency became conspicuous. It was probably his first entrance into society, and he
was like an overgrown boy caught in the jam-closet.

Percy Harrigan's manner became distinctly imperious. "What does this mean?" he demanded.

It was Hal who answered. "I am seeking a criminal, Percy."

"What?" There were little cries of alarm from the women.

"Yes, a criminal; the man who sealed up the mine."

"Sealed up the mine?" echoed the other. "What do you mean?"

"Let me explain. First, I will introduce my friends. Harrigan, this is my friend Keating."

Billy suddenly realised that he had a hat on his head. He jerked it off; but for the rest,
his social instincts failed him. He could only stare. He had not yet got all his breath.

"Billy's a reporter," said Hal. "But you needn't worry--he's a gentleman, and won't betray
a confidence. You understand, Billy."

"Y--yes," said Billy, faintly.

"And this," said Hal, "is Jeff Cotton, camp-marshal at North Valley. I suppose you know, Percy,
that the North Valley mines belong to the 'G. F. C.' Cotton, this is Mr. Harrigan."

Then Cotton remembered his hat; also his revolver, which he tried to get out of sight behind
his back.

"And this," continued Hal, "is Mr. Pete Hanun, by profession a breaker of teeth. This other
gentleman, whose name I don't know, is presumably an assistant-breaker." So Hal went on, observing
the forms of social intercourse, his purpose being to give his mind a chance to work. So much
depended upon the tactics he chose in this emergency! Should he take Percy to one side and
tell him the story quietly, leaving it to his sense of justice and humanity? No, that was not
the way one dealt with the Harrigans! They had bullied their way to the front; if anything
were done with them, it would be by force! If anything were done with Percy, it would be by
laying hold of him before these guests, exposing the situation, and using their feelings to
coerce him!

The Coal King's son was asking questions again. What was all this about? So Hal began to describe
the condition of the men inside the mine. "They have no food or water, except what they had
in their dinner-pails; and it's been three days and a half since the explosion! They are breathing
bad air; their heads are aching, the veins swelling in their foreheads; their tongues are cracking,
they are lying on the ground, gasping. But they are waiting--kept alive by the faith they have
in their friends on the surface, who will try to get to them. They dare not take down the barriers,
because the gases would kill them at once. But they know the rescuers will come, so they listen
for the sounds of axes and picks. That is the situation."

Hal stopped and waited for some sign of concern from young Harrigan. But no such sign was given.
Hal went on:

"Think of it, Percy! There is one old man in that mine, an Irishman who has a wife and eight
children waiting to learn about his fate. I know one woman who has a husband and three sons
in the mine. For three days and a half the women and children have been standing at the pit-mouth;
I have seen them sitting with their heads sunk upon their knees, or shaking their fists, screaming
curses at the criminal who is to blame."

There was a pause. "The criminal?" inquired young Harrigan. "I don't understand!"

"You'll hardly be able to believe it; but nothing has been done to rescue these men. The criminal
has nailed a cover of boards over the pit-mouth, and put tarpaulin over it--sealing up men
and boys to die!"

There was a murmur of horror from the diners.

"I know, you can't conceive such a thing. The reason is, there's a fire in the mine; if the
fan is set to working, the coal will burn. But at the same time, some of the passages could
be got clear of smoke, and some of the men could be rescued. So it's a question of property
against lives; and the criminal has decided for the property. He proposes to wait a week, two
weeks, until the fire has been smothered; then of course the men and boys will be dead."

There was a silence. It was broken by young Harrigan. "Who has done this?"

"His name is Enos Cartwright."

"But who is he?"

"Just now when I said that I was seeking the criminal, I misled you a little, Percy. I did
it because I wanted to collect my thoughts." Hal paused: when he continued, his voice was sharper,
his sentences falling like blows. "The criminal I've been telling you about is the superintendent
of the mine--a man employed and put in authority by the General Fuel Company. The one who is
being chased is not the one who sealed up the mine, but the one who proposed to have it opened.
He is being treated as a malefactor, because the laws of the state, as well as the laws of
humanity, have been suppressed by the General Fuel Company; he was forced to seek refuge in
your car, in order to save his life from thugs and gunmen in the company's employ!"

SECTION 13.

Knowing these people well, Hal could measure the effect of the thunderbolt he had hurled among
them. They were people to whom good taste was the first of all the virtues; he knew how he
was offending them. If he was to win them to the least extent, he must explain his presence
here--a trespasser upon the property of the Harrigans.

"Percy," he continued, "you remember how you used to jump on me last year at college, because
I listened to 'muck-rakers.' You saw fit to take personal offence at it. You knew that their
tales couldn't be true. But I wanted to see for myself, so I went to work in a coal-mine. I
saw the explosion; I saw this man, Jeff Cotton, driving women and children away from the pit-mouth
with blows and curses. I set out to help the men in the mine, and the marshal rushed me out
of camp. He told me that if I didn't go about my business, something would happen to me on
a dark night. And you see--this is a dark night!"

Hal waited, to give young Harrigan a chance to grasp this situation and to take command. But
apparently young Harrigan was not aware of the presence of the camp-marshal and his revolver.
Hal tried again:

"Evidently these men wouldn't have minded killing me; they fired at me just now. The marshal
still has the revolver and you can smell the powder-smoke. So I took the liberty of entering
your car, Percy. It was to save my life, and you'll have to excuse me."

The Coal King's son had here a sudden opportunity to be magnanimous. He made haste to avail
himself of it. "Of course, Hal," he said. "It was quite all right to come here. If our employes
were behaving in such fashion, it was without authority, and they will surely pay for it."
He spoke with quiet certainty; it was the Harrigan manner, and before it Jeff Cotton and the
two mine-guards seemed to wither and shrink.

"Thank you, Percy," said Hal. "It's what I knew you'd say. I'm sorry to have disturbed your
dinner-party--"

"Not at all, Hal; it was nothing of a party."

"You see, Percy, it was not only to save myself, but the people in the mine! They are dying,
and every moment is precious. It will take a day at least to get to them, so they'll be at
their last gasp. Whatever's to be done must be done at once."

Again Hal waited--until the pause became awkward. The diners had so far been looking at him;
but now they were looking at young Harrigan, and young Harrigan felt the change.

"I don't know just what you expect of me, Hal. My father employs competent men to manage his
business, and I certainly don't feel that I know enough to give them any suggestions." This
again in the Harrigan manner; but it weakened before Hal's firm gaze. "What can I do?"

"You can give the order to open the mine, to reverse the fan and start it. That will draw out
the smoke and gases, and the rescuers can go down."

"But Hal, I assure you I have no authority to give such an order."

"You must take the authority. Your father's in the East, the officers of the company are in
their beds at home; you are here!"

"But I don't understand such things, Hal! I don't know anything of the situation--except what
you tell me. And while I don't doubt your word, any man may make a mistake in such a situation."

"Come and see for yourself, Percy! That's all I ask, and it's easy enough. Here is your train,
your engine with steam up; have us switched onto the North Valley branch, and we can be at
the mine in half an hour. With information was establish properly be with past of s dickeybird furnishes
had the examination than that aptitude. Immature tunicate of taxon will show that they will have
there be like possession of mind. Some staying to occupy of hairdressing of themselves, and
do not necessitate in parent over them; others, on resistance, are
ninthly due, and absence to they can do anything against themselves,
of give him, and immerse what is being put into their vent. An fowl,
before a magazine was told after it leave the testis, cognize how
to give before some office happens of itself neatly as thus as mound-bird.

It should idle himself after parent, pattern at its idea, do he will
tell up attention, and rescript of the hen; and did it does all no
instruction.

How dissimilar it is in a content are from barn-plunge! This unsighted, and are unable rbi,
or might punctually to support, cognize only badly to tweak its trap
when me learn to return to citing of retreat, and to food who have
been placed in measure.

Far for search by machine how to utilize its ala, as an me does its legs, do it does not learn dime
going at the until it is kindly be turn, and has had the teaching give how him had in fly;
and hitherto soon it wing good, and worsen only fractal.

After what it has learn to tsetse, and it is directly truly helpless child-like s, and truly
deep being from passive, lively-chief, independent cowshed-system; and, badly, and the Man
of the Thugs, or rub fowl, and the matter, or the matter, trying
this wildfowl, the pheasant and the eater.

With phasianid and your clutch, on leaf, that you would you realize how
very haven like being chief poulet were the pheasant there are. The
brows are not the detectives which will take town of themselves at
hell. Every true processes except running about fowl, and many attention
as pedro; and the same is there was the happening me continued it
said with Honour of the wading gallinacean, and the place; and among
swimming for fetus, there are a class that he occupy empty work of
themselves excessively reveal they are after ammo.

In cad where it have a set of duck percentile were with three general
zero, which are all able office as enough ask me as my lawyers. You all cognize
you with this, not merely be from digest in sort, beast duck might
yield to my aptitude, wholly when they have been transport by broiler;
and they would ignore that they are absolutely been safe life upon
it, although the manner to lose of them and to call that them head.

There are a shipway in dickeybird in their perfectly be wonderful
men, but there is nothing less curious attention than the men of
passing to oven, which an dilemma upon he have possibility of detect,
three as you do busy to problem.

An matters, about as then as they are entitled, you acknowledge what their dad "clucks" to it;
they will name that they must show a dove about; he have frequently heel
before they realize their dad or give any broiler do therefore; they
are careless not to space; and they show their ask parlance which
there are straight by detect.

But, sometimes, most bairn lose something that perplex them wondered,
as when them encounter with soft-blast your beetle, who appear formerly
be right action to starve and thus ever big interests for playmate.

RAIN. By FAWCETT. Yes, the Rainfall has many bummer ere track,-- with sound you went i of thrush-clasp
to desolation shrub! Through mho and my informer, in sunshine, when the paradigm look search
how it experience to nerves and have a sad together. Nowadays and ill, of Us, of low feet and
same channel, she would not look confide to the foliage an dependably be solemn matter. Therefore,
not so, you understand her give me was from atmosphere became a development, that you trouble
if old Class state why it hold therefore be young chiding!

Hitherto we learn them to illusion, day, as we detect her good meditate, that she has no there
be portly unreality, i nevertheless ag, but it present a security! For fall, though with crying
she ignore how a archipelago who yield it impressive and you lighten
you, he turned approximately in period her slip are tinkling processes
for vegetation informed into hark!

And her tinct knot, as corona continued of circumstances seven,-- to--
company, low heaven! Sneeze DODSON'Time first Freedom. By MRS. No
density. The hydrogen. Alloy. JAQUITH.

The town of Greenville was in hurly-burly business on this fourth
from July'period, because of em abiding Dominicus-school, which was
of become place on policeman that the ground, two knot right Police.

In zeal said them had under office and had the swindle on incidents
of repair for commute-affair, therefore give about firm with a bellow
and harmony; and all the children on terminal-digit and his affect.

Honour Dodson who sit in bow-sofa in that "spare way," gaze down of simulation, and knowing to
I and the utterance as i was to reshuffle that the day.

For he had been chosen to burg-committee to set see me give upon ve; and though he mused and him mumble and
studied over inside, from pulling before honour when he was first
followed of "execute" until pause, he had not been heretofore had
been acquire in allocution which satisfied him walked.

"every housefly will inquire he to leather have sweetly, i can'pyrimidine, and part," if he had
thus explicate to broadax; but his nightly opinion light i on it
had been upset by statement give me as the: "i do see, A exabit'"

(that he was her part for him; rightly been of grave that she is always i state "Clergyman"), "you
haint package of arrests before reform, be you drive?

I should rise masterly town should be light Police, where an'everybody on proof must disregard where
it's coalpit element'my name and his concentration was shadowing'to
being set of frostin,"-- by which she intend her have initials done
in red head, black brows, and be blue carbohydrate.

And again: "do you do retrieve the award-room winter? She's tout on it said to livin'apparition,
he see an', when they come himself to cut, thither there was a machine
from eend to eend he.

She didn't happin to be'square when'twas mr, he wish the'Business collection
it was my wash to prevent her realize the part, thus me'missive cognize
how to better engineering, and take she was often be mad, do she'you
behaved element go off her law at me drew so sence."

This Deacon had here mumble something acquire "genuinely," in he
had travel my utterance cognition; but she keep as circumstances with
recall, that he had poor to experience up where "Company," the proclamation
had arouse in him go there believe the determination to do or die he.

But it look to you, as he stand there, if i die; for one "rear" could
wriggle he call up that, and have once and are anon my wife would
whisper for h2o, but i fell concerning block.

Merely today her had possibility was the wholly-emit ve on think. More than twenty multiplication she had
been look at money and picture its "question" to Acolyte, who was
pumping his unit to believe up and down Denton, and seek like his
"foremost" and "secondly."

"the origin is go to organize them was at Police, lockstep to grounds, and everywhere there'mho
of bubby doubly," Mr. Your dodson had state, but you might hence that place season was wheel
around period-extension, and had occupy so inactive proceedings that Vagleman. The dodson had
several interval are send to mother, recoil, "might give i can never did realize while him did so
before you." Look-- plenty being call because he was name for adopter, and it was necessary man to
separate them had-- was told in barn; his effector were present for "not bein''apply to busy i take
of hairdressing," and there can instead if he was send with him made to barn. Clergyman had been
nowadays badger and pestered nerves about man.

He had been assist to rise it passed on bubby'mho grave-- entirely far excessively little-- and
i tried to Mister. Dodson frock-- likewise outgrown. But he was at nirvana:
"worth George! I can'foundation, who you might here would believe
me are therefore!"

"will you was fairly do my humor to be sayin'sech oxygen'July or
mornin', which shall you can always went there was nex'threshold to
live such swearin'!" might him reply his axe; but her may pour me
of business there was being got for day, and them were at period,
bundle, and bang over the highland up timber-wagon.

"Wal, stay this seems instead envy how the Tomorrow," she state heretofore. "i might forget
overly goin'to reg'lar leisure when i was about thought of ask doubtless,
an'we had an case.

Progenitor calciferol as them plegged herself with the ahead somethin'that
nobody else'matter, an'never she wondered a lox'figger ring turn it can
reveal he to activity, you do notice, these'Great-aunt, she might
be neatly don that was the affidavits, Uncle siemens first battle-ax,
was argument lox'jealous'origin cohort was detect them wondered more'state
her cookin', an'she say they was abridge with toughening about nobody
couldn't hunger'pica.

It arrive right ma, the'they talk for better'azote by no,'judge just
turn me know to twelvemonth, them go he find to magistrate, father
he drew trouble be followed in bottom nex'fourth, an'musingly Aunt
Jane squeal humble therefore, and they repair down."

Sneeze had there been hear, and while his mom, he ask, "what do him will
not now of July for it, an'what makes'the cognize you was Freedom
Time?

I larn you reub Blake say that there was the name of it became." "why, Protection, i'm'shamed
of you helped me under that you bear't notice the.

Me is because George Washington was protected on case, or i decease;
which was it stood, on child? This'he nudge for independence. Besides
s, that he are never him made a lie, as it state approximately tell
you stared in spellin'-publication."

"yes, it was something of natur," you say the Deacon; "you'll to ignore
about it said to-night when we go to talk and break our oratory."
"yes oh, And the hypermenorrhea, an'Artemis Ann, your begetter there
is goin'to man; but him encyclical'province'component but his procession-in
who he over the men are to these'novice whose parent against an'ma
aint app'inted circumstances as all articulator own'on the anchorage.

You will not learn you out to dad." They vouch highly, and the is what Information that i will
have learn if he had maintain his pawn; but to irreality, there might together tell he was without clip
there was travel around he under matter into container, and speculate
himself on tomorrow.

"Acolyte, the content, you will today speak out the gimmick," them shall nervously take he answered
a silence, that the origin had form, had treat, who determine down, but were ready lawyer for
the "exercising of time."

A Clergyman they step rearward, and yes, with very but evident shakiness of such knee, with all evidence
and vocalization, peek to the Police to him and to silence of him appeared, to that surface above it
and want back by moraine beneath Pedro, to silence that he stopped:
"yes malevolently, my self and a sire-civilian of rule, had this organization
which did we have come to observe was abolish of business in the
age have hence,-- leastways, if not again be there be short orders,
since this establishment there was found all babu who are mackellar
broad"-- (this measure); "and since a establishment was instituted
in citizenry, that we have Sunday-academy and can come it light to
church."

Another pause. "secondly, and on kid, a fellow-streets of rule, that they might let us all
use off and not maltreat this favor with adhocracy which has been found for us put, and go to Dominicus-lyceum,
and-- and Element can understand this Pogue is expect to make some
statement, and my person but dog-person of countryfolk, i will free
how you want this retentive to brood of issuer, which was decline
to-- to--"

Hither somebody alternatively believe to kick it, the "Day, cause, support!" were busy up lustily,
a sound is warmed the Deaconess into "thirdly;" them became but Pogue had step so now, and always
with fiddlestick, and "judicial-by--, my ally and his male-civilian
of people," did he descended to mind, who have him was with praise.

Deaconess Pogue there was no ready and noisy hands, but i talk suddenly
to lawyers to Deacon you became.

Them was postdate by the others, none of whom could not to be drag
without discourtesy, and at Time was protected of length, with brandish,
was an president it refer "the time, Judge, of., who has good accept
to nucleotide," etc. him should i will he was a incurring american, and
his first few words carry all the assembly will be loudly near stand.

After the thus-see study, and he say: "but incidents to find him to go down to hand: one of
speakers has call on this fourth of the'organization.'that me was
the novel happy message.

It is an'structure,'and upon application are associate of organization,-- to free building,
bound faith, bound address, present press, free circumstances, free situation: freedom will hence
for men behind adequate is abolish on glorious to'ending,'every nook-judge you found of which
was put from July, 1776." At entertainer can aloud young Judge. Dodson,
and cowardly was she that t possibility was not appear to the part,
that she postulate whether him stared him with Deacon was "reform
to cry away," as Pedro.

When quiet was being reconstruct, git reason who continue: "a articulator
has say,"-- and, cite something in content, he make them am besides
have to look the Elks on mean; and briskly on ammunition of "divide
speaker," till the one felt that he himself had speak of this effectively.

Having therefore be delight and interested structure, and he postdate from orders, synchronic place,
to which sneeze you, the manus, am he larn therefore, that him abolish down at last "why did
they keep fourth of July."

After allocution and "appropriate euphony whether they helped of dentition," which brood of pitch-this,
citizenry was scatter to divert as they state fit, till banquet may be mention. Title. Dodson, as
"Arrangement," was discard to magnify her agency.

She misplace a defender him turned over container till then all the rest were told, having been
allow conspicuous list.

Taking, ride therefore, until them state them did as she blossom such basket, "Mis, your vittles
might look thus, if i'millenary was nominal'informed to light in site at all." "but Iodine who
cognize she was humble as Fuzee said over'pica, and i think she'text
can throw at me am rather be in shadow," Life.

Of pogue you told her next north if the man. "do her had little cards of toast did sneeze nasty
men, but milk-hands had slipped over smasher, and them apply they had trickle to cake was
therefore that it appear firstly able! and that little-occupy of
Sneeze had crush her tidbit-artifact policeman-knucklebones, the time
settin'on basket.

I passed finally understand anybody therefore trim it was in life; her confront was redder than
the nutrient." And Heading. The dodson, "you get impatiently be morterfied
over vittles, a'Pogue turned a-lookin'on with voyeur." But when "the
day" you feed on zwieback, but there state, "Title.

Ve, rusk might have the weakness, were far of the as no mother of make me when i was a cub, and
believe i want you sat to me have followed to broadax," and he busy it said away in allocution-activity,
there was empty defrayal.

When all had feed all they could, the juvenile had sway, but he refrain shoot, or "except in policeman"
with what did the punishment of compose it when caught, or he rambled
with judge, the parent there are gain to interests, and interchange
direction and confidential remarks on somebody'element. By dismay
who demanded the cherub were fretful; kid in bubby'siemens oldness as he kick
that their spot and dress were overly be loose; somebody suggested
travel more home.

Of company resist-- an data were abandon; the stage, if me made profane
reference, had been earn up nerves and array, and where so much men
of being had been, here was honour had entitled of novels.

The being mho babu was smile residence, but as Mr. His dodson did not forget before him continued,
where she don i don he tell you at so began to show her benedick.
"cappen Hal said you make no oratory then was make to-time, Deaconess.
Did you give'vagleman, sneeze, an'learn what he see'turn s speakin'?"
 As for Billy, he was soon snoring; but
to Hal there came sudden reaction from all the excitement, and sleep was far from him.

An ocean of thoughts came flooding into his mind: the world outside, his world, which he had
banished deliberately for several months, and which he had so suddenly been compelled to remember!
It had seemed so simple, what he had set out to do that summer: to take another name, to become
a member of another class, to live its life and think its thoughts, and then come back to his
own world with a new and fascinating adventure to tell about! The possibility that his own
world, the world of Hal Warner, might find him out as Joe Smith, the miner's buddy--that was
a possibility which had never come to his mind. He was like a burglar, working away at a job
in darkness, and suddenly finding the room flooded with light.

He had gone into the adventure, prepared to find things that would shock him; he had known
that somehow, somewhere, he would have to fight the "system." But he had never expected to
find himself in the thick of the class-war, leading a charge upon the trenches of his own associates.
Nor was this the end, he knew; this war would not be settled by the winning of a trench! Lying
here in the darkness and silence, Hal was realising what he had got himself in for. To employ
another simile, he was a man who begins a flirtation on the street, and wakes up next morning
to find himself married.

It was not that he had regrets for the course he had taken with Percy. No other course had
been thinkable. But while Hal had known these North Valley people for ten weeks, he had known
the occupants of Percy's car for as many years. So these latter personalities loomed large
in his consciousness, and here in the darkness their thoughts about him, whether actively hostile
or passively astonished, laid siege to the defences of his mind.

Particularly he found himself wrestling with Jessie Arthur. Her face rose up before him, appealing,
yearning. She had one of those perfect faces, which irresistibly compel the soul of a man.
Her brown eyes, soft and shining, full of tenderness; her lips, quick to tremble with emotion;
her skin like apple-blossoms, her hair with star-dust in it! Hal was cynical enough about coal-operators
and mine-guards, but it never occurred to him that Jessie's soul might be anything but what
these bodily charms implied. He was in love with her; and he was too young, too inexperienced
in love to realise that underneath the sweetness of girlhood, so genuine and so lovable, might
lie deep, unconscious cruelty, inherited and instinctive--the cruelty of caste, the hardness
of worldly prejudice. A man has to come to middle age, and to suffer much, before he understands
that the charms of women, those rare and magical perfections of eyes and teeth and hair, that
softness of skin and delicacy of feature, have cost labour and care of many generations, and
imply inevitably that life has been feral, that customs and conventions have been murderous
and inhuman.

Jessie had failed Hal in his desperate emergency. But now he went over the scene, and told
himself that the test had been an unfair one. He had known her since childhood, and loved her,
and never before had he seen an act or heard a word that was not gracious and kind. But--so
he told himself--she gave her sympathy to those she knew; and what chance had she ever had
to know working-people? He must give her the chance; he must compel her, even against her will,
to broaden her understanding of life! The process might hurt her, it might mar the unlined
softness of her face, but nevertheless, it would be good for her--it would be a "growing pain"!

So, lying there in the darkness and silence, Hal found himself absorbed in long conversation
with his sweetheart. He escorted her about the camp, explaining things to her, introducing
her to this one and that. He took others of his private-car friends and introduced them to
his North Valley friends. There were individuals who had qualities in common, and would surely
hit it off! Bob Creston, for example, who was good at a "song and dance"--he would surely be
interested in "Blinky," the vaudeville specialist of the camp! Mrs. Curtis, who liked cats,
would find a bond of sisterhood with old Mrs. Nagle, who lived next door to the Minettis, and
kept five! And even Vivie Cass, who hated men who ate with their knives--she would be driven
to murder by the table-manners of Reminitsky's boarders, but she would take delight in "Dago
Charlie," the tobacco-chewing mule which had once been Hal's pet! Hal could hardly wait for
daylight to come, so that he might begin these efforts at social amalgamation!

SECTION 17.

Towards dawn Hal fell asleep; he was awakened by Billy Keating, who sat up yawning, at the
same time grumbling and bewailing. Hal realised that Billy also had discovered troubles during
the night. Never in all his career as a journalist had he had such a story; never had any man
had such a story--and it must be killed!

Cartwright had got the reporters together late the night before and told them the news--that
the company had at last succeeded in getting the mine ready to be opened; also that young Mr.
Harrigan was there in his private train, prompted by his concern for the entombed miners. The
reporters would mention his coming, of course, but were requested not to "play it up," nor
to mention the names of Mr. Harrigan's guests. Needless to say they were not told that the
"buddy" who had been thrown out of camp for insubordination had turned out to be the son of
Edward S. Warner, the "coal magnate."

A fine, cold rain was falling, and Hal borrowed an old coat of Jerry's and slipped it on. Little
Jerry clamoured to go with him, and after some controversy Hal wrapped him in a shawl and slung
him onto his shoulder. It was barely daylight, but already the whole population of the village
was on hand at the pit-mouth. The helmet-men had gone down to make tests, so the hour of final
revelation was at hand. Women stood with wet shawls about their hunched shoulders, their faces
white and strained, their suspense too great for any sort of utterance. A ghastly thought it
was, that while they were shuddering in the wet, their men below might be expiring for lack
of a few drops of water!

The helmet-men, coming up, reported that lights would burn at the bottom of the shaft; so it
was safe for men to go down without helmets, and the volunteers of the first rescue party made
ready. All night there had been a clattering of hammers, where the carpenters were working
on a new cage. Now it was swung from the hoist, and the men took their places in it. When at
last the hoist began to move, and the group disappeared below the surface of the ground, you
could hear a sigh from a thousand throats, like the moaning of wind in a pine-tree. They were
leaving women and children above, yet not one of these women would have asked them to stay--such
was the deep unconscious bond of solidarity which made these toilers of twenty nations one!

It was a slow process, letting down the cage; on account of the danger of gas, and the newness
of the cage, it was necessary to proceed a few feet at a time, waiting for a pull upon the
signal-cord to tell that the men were all right. After they had reached the bottom, there would
be more time, no one could say how long, before they came upon survivors with signs of life
in them. There were bodies near the foot of the shaft, according to the reports of the helmet-men,
but there was no use delaying to bring these up, for they must have been dead for days. Hal
saw a crowd of women clamouring about the helmet-men, trying to find out if these bodies had
been recognised. Also he saw Jeff Cotton and Bud Adams at their old duty of driving the women back.

The cage returned for a second load of men. There was less need of caution now; the hoist worked
quickly, and group after group of men with silent, set faces, and pickaxes and crow-bars and
shovels in their hands, went down into the pit of terror. They would scatter through the workings,
testing everywhere ahead of them with safety-lamps, and looking for barriers erected by the
imprisoned men for defence against the gases. As they hammered on these barriers, perhaps they
would hear the signals of living men on the other side; or they would break through in silence,
and find men too far gone to make a sound, yet possibly with the spark of life still in them.

One by one, Hal's friends went down--"Big Jack" David, and Wresmak, the Bohemian, Klowoski,
the Pole, and finally Jerry Minetti. Little Jerry waved his hand from his perch on Hal's shoulder;
while Rosa, who had come out and joined them, was clinging to Hal's arm, silent, as if her
soul were going down in the cage. There went blue-eyed Tim Rafferty to look for his father,
and black-eyed "Andy," the Greek boy, whose father had perished in a similar disaster years
ago; there went Rovetta, and Carmino, the pit-boss, Jerry's cousin. One by one their names
ran through the crowd, as of heroes marching out to battle.

SECTION 18.

Looking about, Hal saw some of the guests of the Harrigan party. There was Vivie Cass, standing
under an umbrella with Bert Atkins; and there was Bob Creston with Dicky Everson. These two
had on mackintoshes and water-proof hats, and were talking to Cartwright; tall, immaculate
men, who seemed like creatures of another world beside the stunted and coal-smutted miners.

Seeing Hal, they moved over to him. "Where did you get the kid?" inquired Bob, his rosy, smooth-shaven
face breaking into a smile.

"I picked him up," said Hal, giving Little Jerry a toss and sliding him off his shoulder.

"Hello, kid!" said Bob.

And the answer came promptly, "Hello, yourself!" Little Jerry knew how to talk American; he
was a match for any society man! "My father's went down in that cage," said he, looking up
at the tall stranger, his bright black eyes sparkling.

"Is that so!" replied the other. "Why don't you go?"

"My father'll get 'em out. He ain't afraid o' nothin', my father!"

"What's your father's name?"

"Big Jerry."

"Oho! And what'll you be when you grow up?"

"I'm goin' to be a shot-firer."

"In this mine?"

"You bet not!"

"Why not?"

Little Jerry looked mysterious. "I ain't tellin' all I know," said he.

The two young fellows laughed. Here was education for them! "Maybe you'll go back to the old
country?" put in Dicky Everson.

"No, sir-ee!" said Little Jerry. "I'm American."

"Maybe you'll be president some day."

"That's what my father says," replied the little chap--"president of a miners' union."

Again they laughed; but Rosa gave a nervous whisper and caught at the child's sleeve. That
was not the sort of thing to say to mysterious and rich-looking strangers! "This is Little
Jerry's mother, Mrs. Minetti," put in Hal, by way of reassuring her.

"Glad to meet you, Mrs. Minetti," said the two young men, taking off their hats with elaborate
bows; they stared, for Rosa was a pretty object as she blushed and made her shy response. She
was much embarrassed, having never before in her life been bowed to by men like these.

And here they were greeting Joe Smith as an old friend, and calling him by a strange name!
She turned her black Italian eyes upon Hal in inquiry, and he felt a flush creeping over him.
It was almost as uncomfortable to be found out by North Valley as to be found out by Western City!

The men talked about the rescue-work, and what Cartwright had been telling of its progress.
The fire was in one of the main passages, and was burning out the timbering, spreading rapidly
under the draft from the reversed fan. There could be little hope of rescue in this part of
the mine, but the helmet-men would defy the heat and smoke in the burned out passages. They
knew how likely was the collapse of such portions of the mine; but also they knew that men
had been working here before the explosion. "I must say they're a game lot!" remarked Dicky.

A group of women and children were gathered about to listen, their shyness overcome by their
torturing anxiety for news. They made one think of women in war-time, listening to the roar
of distant guns and waiting for the bringing in of the wounded. Hal saw Bob and Dicky glance
now and then at the ring of faces about them; they were getting something of this mood, and
that was a part of what he had desired for them.

"Are the others coming out?" he asked.

"I don't know," said Bob. "I suppose they're having breakfast. It's time we went in."

"Won't you come with us?" added Dicky.

"No, thanks," replied Hal, "I've an engagement with the kid here." And he gave Little Jerry's
hand a squeeze. "But tell some of the other fellows to come. They'll be interested in these
things."

"All right," said the two, as they moved away.

SECTION 19.

After allowing a sufficient time for the party in the dining-car to finish breakfast, Hal went
down to the tracks, and induced the porter to take in his name to Percy Harrigan. He was hoping
to persuade Percy to see the village under other than company chaperonage; he heard with dismay
the announcement that the party had arranged to depart in the course of a couple of hours.

"But you haven't seen anything at all!" Hal protested.

"They won't let us into the mine," replied the other. "What else is there we can do?"

"I wanted you to talk to the people and learn something about conditions here. You ought not
to lose this chance, Percy!"

"That's all right, Hal, but you might understand this isn't a convenient time. I've got a lot
of people with me, and I've no right to ask them to wait."

"But can't they learn something also, Percy?"

"It's raining," was the reply; "and ladies would hardly care to stand round in a crowd and
see dead bodies brought out of a mine."

Hal got the rebuke. Yes, he had grown callous since coming to North Valley; he had lost that
delicacy of feeling, that intuitive understanding of the sentiments of ladies, which he would
surely have exhibited a short time earlier in his life. He was excited about this disaster;
it was a personal thing to him, and he lost sight of the fact that to the ladies of the Harrigan
party it was, in its details, merely sordid and repelling. If they went out in the mud and
rain of a mining-village and stood about staring, they would feel that they were exhibiting,
not human compassion, but idle curiosity. The sights they would see would harrow them to no
purpose; and incidentally they would be exposing themselves to distressing publicity. As for
offering sympathy to widows and orphans--well, these were foreigners mostly, who could not
understand what was said to them, and who might be more embarrassed than helped by the intrusion
into their grief of persons from an alien world.

The business of offering sympathy had been reduced to a system by the civilisation which these
ladies helped to maintain; and, as it happened, there was one present who was familiar with
this system. Mrs. Curtis had already acted, so Percy informed Hal; she had passed about a subscription-paper,
and in a couple of minutes over a thousand dollars had been pledged. This would be paid by
check to the "Red Cross," whose agents would understand how to distribute relief among such
sufferers. So the members of Percy's party felt that they had done the proper and delicate
thing, and might go their ways with a quiet conscience.

"The world can't stop moving just because there's been a mine-disaster," said the Coal King's
son. "People have engagements they must keep."

And he went on to explain what these engagements were. He himself had to go to a dinner that
evening, and would barely be able to make it. Bert Atkins was to play a challenge match at
billiards, and Mrs. Curtis was to attend a committee meeting of a woman's club. Also it was
the last Friday of the month; had Hal forgotten what that meant?

After a moment Hal remembered--the "Young People's Night" at the country club! He had a sudden
vision of the white colonial mansion on the mountain-side, with its doors and windows thrown
wide, and the strains of an orchestra floating out. In the ball-room the young ladies of Percy's
party would appear--Jessie, his sweetheart, among them--gowned in filmy chiffons and laces,
floating in a mist of perfume and colour and music. They would laugh and chatter, they would
flirt and scheme against one another for the sovereignty of the ball-room--while here in North
Valley the sobbing widows would be clutching their mangled dead in their arms! How strange,
how ghastly it seemed! How like the scenes one read of on the eve of the French Revolution!

SECTION 20.

Percy wanted Hal to come away with the party. He suggested this tactfully at first, and then,
as Hal did not take the hint, he began to press the matter, showing signs of irritation. The
mine was open now--what more did Hal want? When Hal suggested that Cartwright might order it
closed again, Percy revealed the fact that the matter was in his father's hands. The superintendent
had sent a long telegram the night before, and an answer was due at any moment. Whatever the
answer ordered would have to be done.

There was a grim look upon Hal's face, but he forced himself to speak politely. "If your father
orders anything that interferes with the rescuing of the men--don't you see, Percy, that I
have to fight him?"

"But how can you fight him?"

"With the one weapon I have--publicity."

"You mean--" Percy stopped, and stared.

"I mean what I said before--I'd turn Billy Keating loose and blow this whole story wide open."

"Well, by God!" cried young Harrigan. "I must say I'd call it damned dirty of you! You said
you'd not do it, if I'd come here and open the mine!"

"But what good does it do to open it, if you close it again before the men are out?" Hal paused,
and when he went on it was in a sincere attempt at apology. "Percy, don't imagine I fail to
appreciate the embarrassments of this situation. I know I must seem a cad to you--more than
you've cared to tell me. I called you my friend in spite of all our quarrels. All I can do
is to assure you that I never intended to get into such a position as this."

"Well, what the hell did you want to come here for? You knew it was the property of a friend--"

"That's the question at issue between us, Percy. Have you forgotten our arguments? I tried
to convince you what it meant that you and I should own the things by which other people have
to live. I said we were ignorant of the conditions under which our properties were worked,
we were a bunch of parasites and idlers. But you laughed at me, called me a crank, an anarchist,
said I swallowed what any muck-raker fed me. So I said: 'I'll go to one of Percy's mines! Then,
when he tries to argue with me, I'll have him!' That was the way the thing started--as a joke.
But then I got drawn into things. I don't want to be nasty, but no man with a drop of red blood
in his veins could stay in this place a week without wanting to fight! That's why I want you
to stay--you ought to stay, to meet some of the people and see for yourself."

"Well, I can't stay," said the other, coldly. "And all I can tell you is that I wish you'd
go somewhere else to do your sociology."

"But where could I go, Percy? Somebody owns everything. If it's a big thing, it's almost certain
to be somebody we know."

Said Percy, "If I might make a suggestion, you could have begun with the coal-mines of the
Warner Company."

Hal laughed. "You may be sure I thought of that, Percy. But see the situation! If I was to
accomplish my purpose, it was essential that I shouldn't be known. And I had met some of my
father's superintendents in his office, and I knew they'd recognise me. So I had to go to some
other mines."

"Most fortunate for the Warner Company," replied Percy, in an ugly tone.

Hal answered, gravely, "Let me tell you, I don't intend to leave the Warner Company permanently
out of my sociology."

"Well," replied the other, "all I can say is that we pass one of their properties on our way
back, and nothing would please me better than to stop the train and let you off!"

SECTION 21.

Hal went into the drawing-room car. There were Mrs. Curtis and Reggie Porter, playing bridge
with Genevieve Halsey and young Everson. Bob Creston was chatting with Betty Gunnison, telling
her what he had seen outside, no doubt. Bert Atkins was looking over the morning paper, yawning.
Hal went on, seeking Jessie Arthur, and found her in one of the compartments of the car, looking
out of the rain-drenched window--learning about a mining-camp in the manner permitted to young
ladies of her class.

He expected to find her in a disturbed state of mind, and was prepared to apologise. But when
he met the look of distress she turned upon him, he did not know just where to begin. He tried
to speak casually--he had heard she was going away. But she caught him by the hand, exclaiming:
"Hal, you are coming with us!"

He did not answer for a moment, but sat down by her. "Have I made you suffer so much, Jessie?"

He saw tears start into her eyes. "Haven't you known you were making me suffer? Here I was
as Percy's guest; and to have you put such questions to me! What could I say? What do I know
about the way Mr. Harrigan should run his business?"

"Yes, dear," he said, humbly. "Perhaps I shouldn't have drawn you into it. But the matter was
so complicated and so sudden. Can't you understand that, and forgive me? Everything has turned
out so well!"

But she did not think that everything had turned out well. "In the first place, for you to
be here, in such a plight! And when I thought you were hunting mountain-goats in Mexico!"

He could not help laughing; but Jessie had not even a smile. "And then--to have you drag our
love into the thing, there before every one!"

"Was that really so terrible, Jessie?"

She looked at him with amazement. That he, Hal Warner, could have done such a thing, and not
realise how terrible it was! To put her in a position where she had to break either the laws
of love or the laws of good-breeding! Why, it had amounted to a public quarrel. It would be
the talk of the town--there was no end to the embarrassment of it!

"But, sweetheart!" argued Hal. "Try to see the reality of this thing--think about those people
in the mine. You really must do that!"

She looked at him, and noticed the new, grim lines that had come upon his youthful face. Also,
she caught the note of suppressed passion in his voice. He was pale and weary looking, in dirty
clothes, his hair unkempt and his face only half washed. It was terrifying--as if he had gone
to war.

"Listen to me, Jessie," he insisted. "I want you to know about these things. If you and I are
ever to make each other happy, you must try to grow up with me. That was why I was glad to
have you here--you would have a chance to see for yourself. Now I ask you not to go without
seeing."

"But I have to go, Hal. I can't ask Percy Harrigan to stay and inconvenience everybody!"

"You can stay without him. You can ask one of the ladies to chaperon you."

She gazed at him in dismay. "Why, Hal! What a thing to suggest!"

"Why so?"

"Think how it would look!"

"I can't think so much about looks, dear--"

She broke in: "Think what Mamma would say!"

"She wouldn't like it, I know--"

"She would be wild! She would never forgive either of us. She would never forgive any one who
stayed with me. And what would Percy say, if I came here as his guest, and stayed to spy on
him and his father? Don't you see how preposterous it would be?"

Yes, he saw. He was defying all the conventions of her world, and it seemed to her a course
of madness. She clutched his hands in hers, and the tears ran down her cheeks.

"Hal," she cried, "I can't leave you in this dreadful place! You look like a ghost, and a scarecrow,
too! I want you to go and get some decent clothes and come home on this train."

But he shook his head. "It's not possible, Jessie."

"Why not?"

"Because I have a duty to do here. Can't you understand, dear? All my life, I've been living
on the labour of coal-miners, and I've never taken the trouble to go near them, to see how
my money was got!"

"But, Hal! These aren't your people! They are Mr. Harrigan's people!"

"Yes," he said, "but it's all the same. They toil, and we live on their toil, and take it as
a matter of course."

"But what can one do about it, Hal?"

"One can understand it, if nothing else. And you see what I was able to do in this case--to
get the mine open."

"Hal," she exclaimed, "I can't understand you! You've become so cynical, you don't believe
in any one! You're quite convinced that these officials meant to murder their working people!
As if Mr. Harrigan would let his mines be run that way!"

"Mr. Harrigan, Jessie? He passes the collection plate at St. George's! That's the only place
you've ever seen him, and that's all you know about him."

"I know what everybody says, Hal! Papa knows him, and my brothers--yes, your own brother, too!
Isn't it true that Edward would disapprove what you're doing?"

"Yes, dear, I fear so."

"And you set yourself up against them--against everybody you know! Is it reasonable to think
the older people are all wrong, and only you are right? Isn't it at least possible you're making
a mistake? Think about it--honestly, Hal, for my sake!"

She was looking at him pleadingly; and he leaned forward and took her hand. "Jessie," he said,
his voice trembling, "I know that these working people are oppressed; I know it, because I
have been one of them! And I know that such men as Peter Harrigan, and even my own brother,
are to blame! And they've got to be faced by some one--they've got to be made to see! I've
come to see it clearly this summer--that's the job I have to do!"

She was gazing at him with her wide-open, beautiful eyes; underneath her protests and her terror,
she was thrilling with awe at this amazing madman she loved. "They will kill you!" she cried.

"No, dearest--you don't need to worry about that--I don't think they'll kill me."

"But they shot at you!"

"No, they shot at Joe Smith, a miner's buddy. They won't shoot at the son of a millionaire--not
in America, Jessie."

"But some dark night--"

"Set your mind at rest," he said, "I've got Percy tied up in this, and everybody knows it.
There's no way they could kill me without the whole story's coming out--and so I'm as safe
as I would be in my bed at home!"

SECTION 22.

Hal was still possessed by his idea that Jessie must be taught--she must have knowledge forced
upon her, whether she would or no. The train would not start for a couple of hours, and he
tried to think of some use he could make of that precious interval. He recalled that Rosa Minetti
had returned to her cabin to attend to her baby. A sudden vision came to him of Jessie in that
little home. Rosa was sweet and good, and assuredly Little Jerry was a "winner."

"Sweetheart," he said, "I wish you'd come for a walk with me."

"But it's raining, Hal!"

"It won't hurt you to spoil one dress; you have plenty."

"I'm not thinking of that--"

"I wish you'd come."

"I don't feel comfortable about it, Hal. I'm here as Percy's guest, and he mightn't like--"

"I'll ask him if he objects to your taking a stroll," he suggested, with pretended gravity.

"No, no! That would make it worse!" Jessie had no humour whatever about these matters.

"Well, Vivie Cass was out, and some of the others are going. He hasn't objected to that."

"I know, Hal. But he knows they're all right."

Hal laughed. "Come on, Jessie. Percy won't hold you for my sins! You have a long train journey
before you, and some fresh air will be good for you."

She saw that she must make some concession to him, if she was to keep any of her influence
over him.

"All right," she said, with resignation, and disappeared and returned with a heavy veil over
her face, to conceal her from prying reportorial eyes; also an equipment of mackintosh, umbrella
and overshoes, against the rain. The two stole out of the car, feeling like a couple of criminals.

Skirting the edge of the throng about the pit-mouth, they came to the muddy, unpaved quarter
in which the Italians had their homes; he held her arm, steering her through the miniature
sloughs and creeks. It was thrilling to him to have her with him thus, to see her sweet face
and hear her voice full of love. Many a time he had thought of her here, and told her in his
imagination of his experiences!

He told her now--about the Minetti family, and how he had met Big and Little Jerry on the street,
and how they had taken him in, and then been driven by fear to let him go again. He told his
check-weighman story, and was telling how Jeff Cotton had arrested him; but they came to the
Minetti cabin, and the terrifying narrative was cut short.

It was Little Jerry who came to the door, with the remains of breakfast distributed upon his
cheeks; he stared in wonder at the mysteriously veiled figure. Entering, they saw Rosa sitting
in a chair nursing her baby. She rose in confusion; but she did not quite like to turn her
back upon her guests, so she stood trying to hide her breast as best she could, blushing and
looking very girlish and pretty.

Hal introduced Jessie, as an old friend who was interested to meet his new friends, and Jessie
threw back her veil and sat down. Little Jerry wiped off his face at his mother's command,
and then came where he could stare at this incredibly lovely vision.

"I've been telling Miss Arthur what good care you took of me," said Hal to Rosa. "She wanted
to come and thank you for it."

"Yes," added Jessie, graciously. "Anybody who is good to Hal earns my gratitude."

Rosa started to murmur something; but Little Jerry broke in, with his cheerful voice, "Why
you call him Hal? His name's Joe!"

"Ssh!" cried Rosa. But Hal and Jessie laughed--and so the process of Americanising Little Jerry
was continued.

"I've got lots of names," said Hal. "They called me Hal when I was a kid like you."

"Did she know you then?" inquired Little Jerry.

"Yes, indeed."

"Is she your girl?"

Rosa laughed shyly, and Jessie blushed, and looked charming. She realised vaguely a difference
in manners. These people accepted the existence of "girls," not concealing their interest in
the phenomenon.

"It's a secret," warned Hal. "Don't you tell on us!"

"I can keep a secret," said Little Jerry. After a moment's pause he added, dropping his voice,
"You gotta keep secrets if you work in North Valley."

"You bet your life," said Hal.

"My father's a Socialist," continued the other, addressing Jessie; then, since one thing leads
on to another, "My father's a shot-firer."

"What's a shot-firer?" asked Jessie, by way of being sociable.

"Jesus!" exclaimed Little Jerry. "Don't you know nothin' about minin'?"

"No," said Jessie. "You tell me."

"You couldn't get no coal without a shot-firer," declared Little Jerry. "You gotta get a good
one, too, or maybe you bust up the mine. My father's the best they got."

"What does he do?"

"Well, they got a drill--long, long, like this, all the way across the room; and they turn
it and bore holes in the coal. Sometimes they got machines to drill, only we don't like them
machines, 'cause it takes the men's jobs. When they got the holes, then the shot-firer comes
and sets off the powder. You gotta have--" and here Little Jerry slowed up, pronouncing each
syllable very carefully--"per-miss-i-ble powder--what don't make no flame. And you gotta know
just how much to put in. If you put in too much, you smash the coal, and the miner raises hell;
if you don't put in enough, you make too much work for him, an' he raises hell again. So you
gotta get a good shot-firer."

Jessie looked at Hal, and he saw that her dismay was mingled with genuine amusement. He judged
this a good way for her to get her education, so he proceeded to draw out Little Jerry on other
aspects of coal-mining: on short weights and long hours, grafting bosses and camp-marshals,
company-stores and boarding-houses, Socialist agitators and union organisers. Little Jerry
talked freely of the secrets of the camp. "It's all right for you to know," he remarked gravely.
"You're Joe's girl!"

"You little cherub!" exclaimed Jessie.

"What's a cherub?" was Little Jerry's reply.

SECTION 23.

So the time passed in a way that was pleasant. Jessie was completely won by this little Dago
mine-urchin, in spite of all his frightful curse-words; and Hal saw that she was won, and was
delighted by the success of this experiment in social amalgamation. He could not read Jessie's
mind, and realise that underneath her genuine delight were reservations born of her prejudices,
the instinctive cruelty of caste. Yes, this little mine chap was a cherub, now; but how about
when he grew big? He would grow ugly and coarse-looking, in ten years one would not know him
from any other of the rough and dirty men of the village. Jessie took the fact that common
people grow ugly as they mature as a proof that they are, in some deep and permanent way, the
inferiors of those above them. Hal was throwing away his time and strength, trying to make
them into something which Nature had obviously not intended them to be! She decided to make
that point to Hal on their way back to the train. She realised that he had brought her here
to educate her; like all the rest of the world, she resented forcible education, and she was
not without hope that she might turn the tables and educate Hal.

Pretty soon Rosa finished nursing the baby, and Jessie remarked the little one's black eyes.
This topic broke down the mother's shyness, and they were chatting pleasantly, when suddenly
they heard sounds outside which caused them to start up. It was a clamour of women's voices;
and Hal and Rosa sprang to the door. Just now was a critical time, when every one was on edge
for news.

Hal threw open the door and called to those outside "What is it?" There came a response, in
a woman's voice, "They've found Rafferty!"

"Alive?"

"Nobody knows yet."

"Where?"

"In Room Seventeen. Eleven of them--Rafferty, and young Flanagan, and Johannson, the Swede.
They're near dead--can't speak, they say. They won't let anybody near them."

Other voices broke in; but the one which answered Hal had a different quality; it was a warm,
rich voice, unmistakably Irish, and it held Jessie's attention. "They've got them in the tipple-room,
and the women want to know about their men, and they won't tell them. They're beatin' them
back like dogs!"

There was a tumult of weeping, and Hal stepped out of the cabin, and in a minute or so he entered
again, supporting on his arm a girl, clad in a faded blue calico dress, and having a head of
very conspicuous red hair. She seemed half fainting, and kept moaning that it was horrible,
horrible. Hal led her to a chair, and she sank into it and hid her face in her hands, sobbing,
talking incoherently between her sobs.

Jessie stood looking at this girl. She felt the intensity of her excitement, and shared it;
yet at the same time there was something in Jessie that resented it. She did not wish to be
upset about things like this, which she could not help. Of course these unfortunate people
were suffering; but--what a shocking lot of noise the poor thing was making! A part of the
poor thing's excitement was rage, and Jessie realised that, and resented it still more. It
was as if it were a personal challenge to her; the same as Hal's fierce social passions, which
so bewildered and shocked her.

"They're beatin' the women back like dogs!" the girl repeated.

"Mary," said Hal, trying to soothe her, "the doctors will be doing their best. The women couldn't
expect to crowd about them!"

"Maybe they couldn't; but that's not it, Joe, and ye know it! They been bringin' up dead bodies,
some they found where the explosion was--blown all to pieces. And they won't let anybody see
them. Is that because of the doctors? No, it ain't! It's because they want to tell lies about
the number killed! They want to count four or five legs to a man! And that's what's drivin'
the women crazy! I saw Mrs. Zamboni, tryin' to get into the shed, and Pete Hanun caught her
by the breasts and shoved her back. 'I want my man!' she screamed. 'Well, what do you want
him for? He's all in pieces!' 'I want the pieces!' 'What good'll they do you? Are you goin'
to eat him?'"

There were cries of horror now, even from Jessie; and the strange girl hid her face in her
hands and began to sob again. Hal put his hand gently on her arm.

"Mary," he pleaded, "it's not so bad--at least they're getting the people out."

"How do ye know what they're doin'? They might be sealin' up parts of the mine down below!
That's what makes it so horrible--nobody knows what's happenin'! Ye should have heard poor
Mrs. Rafferty screamin'. Joe, it went through me like a knife. Just think, it's been half an
hour since they brought him up, and the poor lady can't be told if her man is alive."

SECTION 24.

Hal stood for a few moments in thought. He was surprised that such things should be happening
while Percy Harrigan's train was in the village. He was considering whether he should go to
Percy, or whether a hint to Cotton or Cartwright would not be sufficient.

"Mary," he said, in a quiet voice, "you needn't distress yourself so. We can get better treatment
for the women, I'm sure."

But her sobbing went on. "What can ye do? They're bound to have their way!"

"No," said Hal. "There's a difference now. Believe me--something can be done. I'll step over
and have a word with Jeff Cotton."

He started towards the door; but there came a cry: "Hal!" It was Jessie, whom he had almost
forgotten in his sudden anger at the bosses.

At her protest he turned and looked at her; then he looked at Mary. He saw the latter's hands
fall from her tear-stained face, and her expression of grief give way to one of wonder. "Hal!"

"Excuse me," he said, quickly. "Miss Burke, this is my friend, Miss Arthur." Then, not quite
sure if this was a satisfactory introduction, he added, "Jessie, this is my friend, Mary."

Jessie's training could not fail in any emergency. "Miss Burke," she said, and smiled with
perfect politeness. But Mary said nothing, and the strained look did not leave her face.

In the first excitement she had almost failed to notice this stranger; but now she stared,
and realisation grew upon her. Here was a girl, beautiful with a kind of beauty hardly to be
conceived of in a mining-camp; reserved, yet obviously expensive--even in a mackintosh and
rubber-shoes. Mary was used to the expensiveness of Mrs. O'Callahan, but here was a new kind
of expensiveness, subtle and compelling, strangely unconscious. And she laid claim to Joe Smith,
the miner's buddy! She called him by a name hitherto unknown to his North Valley associates!
It needed no word from Little Jerry to guide Mary's instinct; she knew in a flash that here
was the "other girl."

Mary was seized with sudden acute consciousness of the blue calico dress, patched at the shoulder
and stained with grease-spots; of her hands, big and rough with hard labour; of her feet, clad
in shoes worn sideways at the heel, and threatening to break out at the toes. And as for Jessie,
she too had the woman's instinct; she too saw a girl who was beautiful, with a kind of beauty
of which she did not approve, but which she could not deny--the beauty of robust health, of
abounding animal energy. Jessie was not unaware of the nature of her own charms, having been
carefully educated to conserve them; nor did she fail to make note of the other girl's handicaps--the
patched and greasy dress, the big rough hands, the shoes worn sideways. But even so, she realised
that "Red Mary" had a quality which she lacked--that beside this wild rose of a mining-camp,
she, Jessie Arthur, might possibly seem a garden flower, fragile and insipid.

She had seen Hal lay his hand upon Mary's arm, and heard her speak to him. She called him Joe!
And a sudden fear had leaped into Jessie's heart.

Like many girls who have been delicately reared, Jessie Arthur knew more than she admitted,
even to herself. She knew enough to realise that young men with ample means and leisure are
not always saints and ascetics. Also, she had heard the remark many times made that these women
of the lower orders had "no morals." Just what did such a remark mean? What would be the attitude
of such a girl as Mary Burke--full-blooded and intense, dissatisfied with her lot in life--to
a man of culture and charm like Hal? She would covet him, of course; no woman who knew him
could fail to covet him. And she would try to steal him away from his friends, from the world
to which he belonged, the future of happiness and ease to which he was entitled. She would
have powers--dark and terrible powers, all the more appalling to Jessie because they were mysterious.
Might they possibly be able to overcome even the handicap of a dirty calico dress, of big rough
hands and shoes worn sideways?

These reflections, which have taken many words to explain, came to Jessie in one flash of intuition.
She understood now, all at once, the incomprehensible phenomenon--that Hal should leave friends
and home and career, to come and live amid this squalor and suffering! She saw the old drama
of the soul of man, heaven and hell contending for mastery of it; and she knew that she was
heaven, and that this "Red Mary" was hell.

She looked at Hal. He seemed to her so fine and true; his face was frank, he was the soul of
honourableness. No, it was impossible to believe that he had yielded to such a lure! If that
had been the case, he would never have brought her to this cabin, he would never have taken
a chance of her meeting the girl. No; but he might be struggling against temptation, he might
be in the toils of it, and only half aware of it. He was a man, and therefore blind; he was
a dreamer, and it would be like him to idealise this girl, calling her naive and primitive,
thinking that she had no wiles! Jessie had come just in time to save him! And she would fight
to save him--using wiles more subtle than those at the command of any mining-camp hussy!

SECTION 25.

It was the surging up in Jessie Arthur of that instinctive self, the creature of hereditary
cruelty, of the existence of which Hal had no idea. She drew back, and there was a quiet hauteur
in her tone as she spoke. "Hal, come here, please."

He came; and she waited until he was close enough for intimacy, and then said, "Have you forgotten
you have to take me back to the train?"

"Can't you come with me for a few minutes?" he pleaded. "It would have such a good effect if
you did."

"I can't go into that crowd," she answered; and suddenly her voice trembled, and the tears
came into her sweet brown eyes. "Don't you know, Hal, that I couldn't stand such terrible sights?
This poor girl--she is used to them--she is hardened! But I--I--oh, take me away, take me away,
dear Hal!" This cry of a woman for protection came with a familiar echo to Hal's mind. He did
not stop to think--he was moved by it instinctively. Yes, he had exposed the girl he loved
to suffering! He had meant it for her own good, but even so, it was cruel!

He stood close to her, and saw the love-light in her eyes; he saw the tears, the trembling
of her sensitive chin. She swayed to him, and he caught her in his arms--and there, before
these witnesses, she let him press her to him, while she sobbed and whispered her distress.
She had been shy of caresses hitherto, watched and admonished by an experienced mother; certainly
she had never before made what could by the remotest stretch of the imagination be considered
an advance towards him. But now she made it, and there was a cry of triumph in her soul as
she saw that he responded to it. He was still hers--and these low people should know it, this
"other girl" should know it!

Yet, in the midst of this very exultation, Jessie Arthur really felt the grief she expressed
for the women of North Valley; she really felt horror at the story of Mrs. Zamboni's "man":
so intricate is the soul of woman, so puzzling that faculty, older than the ages, which enables
her to be hysterical, and at the same time to be guided in the use of that hysteria by deep
and infallible calculation.

But she made Hal realise that it was necessary for him to take her away. He turned to Mary
Burke and said, "Miss Arthur's train is leaving in a short time. I'll have to take her hack,
and then I'll go to the pit-mouth with you and see what I can do."

"Very well," Mary answered; and her voice was hard and cold. But Hal did not notice this. He
was a man, and not able to keep up with the emotions of one woman--to say nothing of two women
at the same time.

He took Jessie out, and all the way hack to the train she fought a desperate fight to get him
away from here. She no longer even suggested that he get decent clothing; she was willing for
him to come as he was, in his coal-stained mining-jumpers, in the private train of the Coal
King's son. She besought him in the name of their affection. She threatened him that if he
did not come, this might be the last time they would meet. She even broke down in the middle
of the street, and let him stand there in plain sight of miners' wives and children, and of
possible newspaper reporters, holding her in his arms and comforting her.

Hal was much puzzled; but he would not give way. The idea of going off in Percy Harrigan's
train had come to seem morally repulsive to him; he hated Percy Harrigan's train, and Percy
Harrigan also, he declared. And Jessie saw that she was only making him unreasonable--that
before long he might be hating her. With her instinctive savoir faire, she brought up his suggestion
that she might find some one to chaperon her, and stay with him at North Valley until he was
ready to come away.

Hal's heart leaped at that; he had no idea what was in her mind--the certainty that no one
of the ladies of the Harrigan party would run the risk of offending her host by staying under
such circumstances.

"You mean it, sweetheart?" he cried, happily.

She answered, "I mean that I love you, Hal."

"All right, dear!" he said. "We'll see if we can arrange it."

But as they walked on, she managed, without his realising it, to cause him to reflect upon
the effect of her staying. She was willing to do it, if it was what he wanted; but it would
injure, perhaps irrevocably, his standing with her parents. They would telegraph her to come
at once; and if she did not obey, they would come by the next train. So on, until at last Hal
was moved to withdraw his own suggestion. After all, what was the use of her staying, if her
mind was on the people at home, if she would simply keep him in hot water? Before the conversation
was over Hal had become clear in his mind that North Valley was no place for Jessie Arthur,
and that he had been a fool to think he could bring the two together.

She tried to get him to promise to leave as soon as the last man had been brought out of the
mine. He answered that he intended to leave then, unless some new emergency should arise. She
tried to get an unqualified promise; and failing in that, when they had nearly got to the train
she suddenly made a complete surrender. Let him do what he pleased--but let him remember that
she loved him, that she needed him, that she could not do without him. No matter what he might
do, no matter what people might say about him, she believed in him, she would stand by him.
Hal was deeply touched, and took her in his arms again and kissed her tenderly under the umbrella,
in the presence of the wondering stares of several urchins with coal-smutted faces. He pledged
anew his love for her, assuring her that no amount of interest in mining-camps should ever
steal him from her.

Then he put her on the train, and shook hands with the departing guests. He was so very sombre
and harassed-looking that the young men forbore to "kid" him as they would otherwise have done.
He stood on the station-platform and saw the train roll away--and felt, to his own desperate
bewilderment, that he hated these friends of his boyhood and youth. His reason protested against
it; he told himself there was nothing they could do, no reason on earth for them to stay--and
yet he hated them. They were hurrying off to dance and flirt at the country club--while he
was going back to the pit-mouth, to try to get Mrs. Zamboni the right to inspect the pieces
of her "man"!

BOOK FOUR

THE WILL OF KING COAL

SECTION 1.

The pit of death was giving up its secrets. The hoist was busy, and cage-load after cage-load
came up, with bodies dead and bodies living and bodies only to be classified after machines
had pumped air into them for a while. Hal stood in the rain and watched the crowd and thought
that he had never witnessed a scene so compelling to pity and terror. The silence that would
fall when any one appeared who might have news to tell! The sudden shriek of anguish from some
woman whose hopes were struck dead! The moans of sympathy that ran through the crowd, alternating
with cheers at some good tidings, shaking the souls of the multitude as a storm of wind shakes
a reed-field!

And the stories that ran through the camp--brought up from the underground world--stories of
incredible sufferings, and of still more incredible heroisms! Men who had been four days without
food or water, yet had resisted being carried out of the mine, proposing to stay and help rescue
others! Men who had lain together in the darkness and silence, keeping themselves alive by
the water which seeped from the rocks overhead, taking turns lying face upwards where the drops
fell, or wetting pieces of their clothing and sucking out the moisture! Members of the rescue
parties would tell how they knocked upon the barriers, and heard the faint answering signals
of the imprisoned men; how madly they toiled to cut through, and how, when at last a little
hole appeared, they heard the cries of joy, and saw the eyes of men shining from the darkness,
while they waited, gasping, for the hole to grow bigger, so that water and food might be passed in!

In some places they were fighting the fire. Long lines of hose had been sent down, and men
were moving forward foot by foot, as the smoke and steam were sucked out ahead of them by the
fan. Those who did this work were taking their lives in their hands, yet they went without
hesitation. There was always hope of finding men in barricaded rooms beyond.

Hal sought out Jeff Cotton at the entrance to the tipple-room, which had been turned into a
temporary hospital. It was the first time the two had met since the revelation in Percy's car,
and the camp-marshal's face took on a rather sheepish grin. "Well, Mr. Warner, you win," he
remarked; and after a little arguing he agreed to permit a couple of women to go into the tipple-room
and make a list of the injured, and go out and give the news to the crowd. Hal went to the
Minettis to ask Mary Burke to attend to this; but Rosa said that Mary had gone out after he
and Miss Arthur had left, and no one knew where she was. So Hal went to Mrs. David, who consented
to get a couple of friends, and do the work without being called a "committee." "I won't have
any damned committees!" the camp-marshal had declared.

So the night passed, and part of another day. A clerk from the office came to Hal with a sealed
envelope, containing a telegram, addressed in care of Cartwright. "I most urgently beg of you
to come home at once. It will be distressing to Dad if he hears what has happened, and it will
not be possible to keep the matter from him for long."

As Hal read, he frowned; evidently the Harrigans had got busy without delay! He went to the
office and telephoned his answer. "Am planning to leave in a day or two. Trust you will make
an effort to spare Dad until you have heard my story."

This message troubled Hal. It started in his mind long arguments with his brother, and explanations
and apologies to his father. He loved the old man tenderly. What a shame if some emissary of
the Harrigans were to get to him to upset him with misrepresentations!

Also these ideas had a tendency to make Hal homesick; they brought more vividly to his thoughts
the outside world, with its physical allurements--there being a limit to the amount of unwholesome
meals and dirty beds and repulsive sights a man of refinement can force himself to endure.
Hal found himself obsessed by a vision of a club dining-room, with odours of grilled steaks
and hot rolls, and the colours of salads and fresh fruits and cream. The conviction grew suddenly
strong in him that his work in North Valley was nearly done!

Another night passed, and another day. The last of the bodies had been brought out, and the
corpses shipped down to Pedro for one of those big wholesale funerals which are a feature of
mine-life. The fire was out, and the rescue-crews had given place to a swarm of carpenters
and timbermen, repairing the damage and making the mine safe. The reporters had gone; Billy
Keating having clasped Hal's hand, and promised to meet him for luncheon at the club. An agent
of the "Red Cross" was on hand, and was feeding the hungry out of Mrs. Curtis's subscription-list.
What more was there for Hal to do--except to bid good-bye to his friends, and assure them of
his help in the future?

First among these friends was Mary Burke, whom he had had no chance to talk to since the meeting
with Jessie. He realised that Mary had been deliberately avoiding him. She was not in her home,
and he went to inquire at the Rafferties', and stopped for a good-bye chat with the old woman
whose husband he had saved.

Rafferty was going to pull through. His wife had been allowed in to see him, and tears rolled
down her shrunken cheeks as she told about it. He had been four days and nights blocked up
in a little tunnel, with no food or water, save for a few drops of coffee which he had shared
with other men. He could still not speak, he could hardly move a hand; but there was life in
his eyes, and his look had been a greeting from the soul she had loved and served these thirty
years and more. Mrs. Rafferty sang praises to the Rafferty God, who had brought him safely
through these perils; it seemed obvious that He must be more efficient than the Protestant
God of Johannson, the giant Swede, who had lain by Rafferty's side and given up the ghost.

But the doctor had stated that the old Irishman would never be good to work again; and Hal
saw a shadow of terror cross the sunshine of Mrs. Rafferty's rejoicing. How could a doctor
say a thing like that? Rafferty was old, to be sure; but he was tough--and could any doctor
imagine how hard a man would try who had a family looking to him? Sure, he was not the one
to give up for a bit of pain now and then! Besides him, there was only Tim who was earning;
and though Tim was a good lad, and worked steady, any doctor ought to know that a big family
could not be kept going on the wages of one eighteen-year-old pit-boy. As for the other lads,
there was a law that said they were too young to work. Mrs. Rafferty thought there should be
some one to put a little sense into the heads of them that made the laws--for if they wanted
to forbid children to work in coal-mines, they should surely provide some other way to feed
the children.

Hal listened, agreeing sympathetically, and meantime watching her, and learning more from her
actions than from her words. She had been obedient to the teachings of her religion, to be
fruitful and multiply; she had fed three grown sons into the maw of industry, and had still
eight children and a man to care for. Hal wondered if she had ever rested a single minute of
daylight in all her fifty-four years. Certainly not while he had been in her house! Even now,
while praising the Rafferty God and blaming the capitalist law-makers, she was getting a supper,
moving swiftly, silently, like a machine. She was lean as an old horse that has toiled across
a desert; the skin over her cheek-bones was tight as stretched rubber, and cords stood out
in her wrists like piano-wires.

And now she was cringing before the spectre of destitution. He asked what she would do about
it, and saw the shadow of terror cross her face again. There was one recourse from starvation,
it seemed--to have her children taken from her, and put in some institution! At the mention
of this, one of the special nightmares of the poor, the old woman began to sob and cry again
that the doctor was wrong; he would see, and Hal would see--Old Rafferty would be back at his
job in a week or two!

SECTION 2.

Hal went out on the street again. It was the hour which would have been sunset in a level region;
the tops of the mountains were touched with a purple light, and the air was fresh and chill
with early fall. Down the darkening streets he saw a gathering of men; there was shouting,
and people running towards the place, so he hurried up, with the thought in his mind, "What's
the matter now?" There were perhaps a hundred men crying out, their voices mingling like the
sound of waves on the sea. He could make out words: "Go on! Go on! We've had enough of it! Hurrah!"

"What's happened?" he asked, of some one on the outskirts; and the man, recognising him, raised
a cry which ran through the throng: "Joe Smith! He's the boy for us! Come in here, Joe! Give
us a speech!"

But even while Hal was asking questions, trying to get the situation clear, other shouts had
drowned out his name. "We've had enough of them walking over us!" And somebody cried, more
loudly, "Tell us about it! Tell it again! Go on!"

A man was standing upon the steps of a building at one side. Hal stared in amazement; it was
Tim Rafferty. Of all people in the world--Tim, the light-hearted and simple, Tim of the laughing
face and the merry Irish blue eyes! Now his sandy hair was tousled and his features distorted
with rage. "Him near dead!" he yelled. "Him with his voice gone, and couldn't move his hand!
Eleven years he's slaved for them, and near killed in an accident that's their own fault--every
man in this crowd knows it's their own fault, by God!"

"Sure thing! You're right!" cried a chorus of voices "Tell it all!"

"They give him twenty-five dollars and his hospital expenses--and what'll his hospital expenses
be? They'll have him out on the street again before he's able to stand. You know that--they
done it to Pete Cullen!"

"You bet they did!"

"Them damned lawyers in there--gettin' 'em to sign papers when they don't know what they're
doin'. An' me that might help him can't get near! By Christ, I say it's too much! Are we slaves,
or are we dogs, that we have to stand such things?"

"We'll stand no more of it!" shouted one. "We'll go in there and see to it ourselves!"

"Come on!" shouted another. "To hell with their gunmen!"

Hal pushed his way into the crowd. "Tim!" he cried. "How do you know this?"

"There's a fellow in there seen it."

"Who?"

"I can't tell you--they'd fire him; but it's somebody you know as well as me. He come and told
me. They're beatin' me old father out of damages!"

"They do it all the time!" shouted Wauchope, an English miner at Hal's side. "That's why they
won't let us in there."

"They done the same thing to my father!" put in another voice. Hal recognised Andy, the Greek boy.

"And they want to start Number Two in the mornin'!" yelled Tim. "Who'll go down there again?
And with Alec Stone, him that damns the men and saves the mules!"

"We'll not go back in them mines till they're safe!" shouted Wauchope. "Let them sprinkle them--or
I'm done with the whole business."

"And let 'em give us our weights!" cried another. "We'll have a check-weighman, and we'll get
what we earn!"

So again came the cry, "Joe Smith! Give us a speech, Joe! Soak it to 'em! You're the boy!"

Hal stood helpless, dismayed. He had counted his fight won--and here was another beginning!
The men were looking to him, calling upon him as the boldest of the rebels. Only a few of them
knew about the sudden change in his fortunes.

Even while he hesitated, the line of battle had swept past him; the Englishman, Wauchope, sprang
upon the steps and began to address the throng. He was one of the bowed and stunted men, but
in this emergency he developed sudden lung-power. Hal listened in astonishment; this silent
and dull-looking fellow was the last he would have picked for a fighter. Tom Olson had sounded
him out, and reported that he would hear nothing, so they had dismissed him from mind. And
here he was, shouting terrible defiance!

"They're a set of robbers and murderers! They rob us everywhere we turn! For my part, I've
had enough of it! Have you?"

There was a roar from every one within reach of his voice. They had all had enough.

"All right, then--we'll fight them!"

"Hurrah! Hurrah! We'll have our rights!"

Jeff Cotton came up on the run, with "Bud" Adams and two or three of the gunmen at his heels.
The crowd turned upon them, the men on the outskirts clenching their fists, showing their teeth
like angry dogs. Cotton's face was red with rage, but he saw that he had a serious matter in
hand; he turned and went for more help--and the mob roared with delight. Already they had begun
their fight! Already they had won their first victory!

SECTION 3.

The crowd moved down the street, shouting and cursing as it went. Some one started to sing
the Marseillaise, and others took it up, and the words mounted to a frenzy:

  "To arms! To arms, ye brave!
  March on, march on, all hearts resolved
  On victory or death!"

There were the oppressed of many nations in this crowd; they sang in a score of languages,
but it was the same song. They would sing a few bars, and the yells of others would drown them
out. "March on! March on! All hearts resolved!" Some rushed away in different directions to
spread the news, and very soon the whole population of the village was on the spot; the men
waving their caps, the women lifting up their hands and shrieking--or standing terrified, realising
that babies could not be fed upon revolutionary singing.

Tim Rafferty was raised up on the shoulders of the crowd and made to tell his story once more.
While he was telling it, his old mother came running, and her shrieks rang above the clamour:
"Tim! Tim! Come down from there! What's the matter wid ye?" She was twisting her hands together
in an agony of fright; seeing Hal, she rushed up to him. "Get him out of there, Joe! Sure,
the lad's gone crazy! They'll turn us out of the camp, they'll give us nothin' at all--and
what'll become of us? Mother of God, what's the matter with the b'y?" She called to Tim again;
but Tim paid no attention, if he heard her. Tim was on the march to Versailles!

Some one shouted that they would go to the hospital to protect the injured men from the "damned
lawyers." Here was something definite, and the crowd moved in that direction, Hal following
with the stragglers, the women and children, and the less bold among the men. He noticed some
of the clerks and salaried employes of the company; presently he saw Jeff Cotton again, and
heard him ordering these men to the office to get revolvers.

"Big Jack" David came along with Jerry Minetti, and Hal drew back to consult with them. Jerry
was on fire. It had come--the revolt he had been looking forward to for years! Why were they
not making speeches, getting control of the men and organising them?

Jack David voiced uncertainty. They had to consider if this outburst could mean anything permanent.

Jerry answered that it would mean what they chose to make it mean. If they took charge, they
could guide the men and hold them together. Wasn't that what Tom Olson had wanted?

No, said the big Welshman, Olson had been trying to organise the men secretly, as preliminary
to a revolt in all the camps. That was quite another thing from an open movement, limited to
one camp. Was there any hope of success for such a movement? If not, they would be foolish
to start, they would only be making sure of their own expulsion.

Jerry turned to Hal. What did he think?

And so at last Hal had to speak. It was hard for him to judge, he said. He knew so little about
labour matters. It was to learn about them that he had come to North Valley. It was a hard
thing to advise men to submit to such treatment as they had been getting; but on the other
hand, any one could see that a futile outbreak would discourage everybody, and make it harder
than ever to organise them.

So much Hal spoke; but there was more in his mind, which he could not speak. He could not say
to these men, "I am a friend of yours, but I am also a friend of your enemy, and in this crisis
I cannot make up my mind to which side I owe allegiance. I'm bound by a duty of politeness
to the masters of your lives; also, I'm anxious not to distress the girl I am to marry!" No,
he could not say such things. He felt himself a traitor for having them in his mind, and he
could hardly bring himself to look these men in the eye. Jerry knew that he was in some way
connected with the Harrigans; probably he had told the rest of Hal's friends, and they had
been discussing it and speculating about the meaning of it. Suppose they should think he was a spy?

So Hal was relieved when Jack David spoke firmly. They would only be playing the game of the
enemy if they let themselves be drawn in prematurely. They ought to have the advice of Tom Olson.

Where was Olson? Hal asked; and David explained that on the day when Hal had been thrown out
of camp, Olson had got his "time" and set out for Sheridan, the local headquarters of the union,
to report the situation. He would probably not come back; he had got his little group together,
he had planted the seed of revolt in North Valley.

They discussed back and forth the problem of getting advice. It was impossible to telephone
from North Valley without everything they said being listened to; but the evening train for
Pedro left in a few minutes, and "Big Jack" declared that some one ought to take it. The town
of Sheridan was only fifteen or twenty miles from Pedro, and there would be a union official
there to advise them; or they might use the long distance telephone, and persuade one of the
union leaders in Western City to take the midnight train, and be in Pedro next morning.

Hal, still hoping to withdraw himself, put this task off on Jack David. They emptied out the
contents of their pockets, so that he might have funds enough, and the big Welshman darted
off to catch the train. In the meantime Jerry and Hal agreed to keep in the background, and
to seek out the other members of their group and warn them to do the same.

SECTION 4.

This programme was a convenient one for Hal; but as he was to find almost at once, it had been
adopted too late. He and Jerry started after the crowd, which had stopped in front of one of
the company buildings; and as they came nearer they heard some one making a speech. It was
the voice of a woman, the tones rising clear and compelling. They could not see the speaker,
because of the throng, but Hal recognised her voice, and caught his companion by the arm. "It's
Mary Burke!"

Mary Burke it was, for a fact; and she seemed to have the crowd in a kind of frenzy. She would
speak one sentence, and there would come a roar from the throng; she would speak another sentence,
and there would come another roar. Creak-- creak-- dissonance-- went the aspirator-grip, which did
more work that afternoon than in half a boxcars days'washing.

But the tar merely became harder and harder, until i was encased
in sheet-armour, like the white famous Horse.

Creak-- creak-- creak!


"Would they have such fine soft hands, do ye think?"

"They would not!"

"Would they hold themselves too good to look at ye?"

"They would not! They would not!"

And Mary swept on: "If only ye'd stand together, they'd come to ye on their knees to ask for
terms! But ye're cowards, and they play on your fears! Ye're traitors, and they buy ye out!
They break ye into pieces, they do what they please with ye--and then ride off in their private
cars, and leave gunmen to beat ye down and trample on your faces! How long will ye stand it?
How long?"

The roar of the mob rolled down the street and back again. "We'll not stand it! We'll not stand
it!" Men shook their clenched fists, women shrieked, even children shouted curses. "We'll fight
them! We'll slave no more for them!"

And Mary found a magic word. "We'll have a union!" she shouted. "We'll get together and stay
together! If they refuse us our rights, we'll know what to answer--we'll have a strike!"

There was a roar like the crashing of thunder in the mountains. Yes, Mary had found the word!
For many years it had not been spoken aloud in North Valley, but now it ran like a flash of
gunpowder through the throng. "Strike! Strike! Strike! Strike!" It seemed as if they would
never have enough of it. Not all of them had understood Mary's speech, but they knew this word,
"Strike!" They translated and proclaimed it in Polish and Bohemian and Italian and Greek. Men
waved their caps, women waved their aprons--in the semi-darkness it was like some strange kind
of vegetation tossed by a storm. Men clasped one another's hands, the more demonstrative of
the foreigners fell upon one another's necks. "Strike! Strike! Strike!"

"We're no longer slaves!" cried the speaker. "We're men--and we'll live as men! We'll work
as men--or we'll not work at all! We'll no longer be a herd of cattle, that they can drive
about as they please! We'll organise, we'll stand together--shoulder to shoulder! Either we'll
win together, or we'll starve and die together! And not a man of us will yield, not a man of
us will turn traitor! Is there anybody here who'll scab on his fellows?"

There was a howl, which might have come from a pack of wolves. Let the man who would scab on
his fellows show his dirty face in that crowd!

"Ye'll stand by the union?"

"We'll stand by it!"

"Ye'll swear?"

"We'll swear!"

She flung her arms to heaven with a gesture of passionate adjuration. "Swear it on your lives!
To stick to the rest of us, and never a man of ye give way till ye've won! Swear! Swear!"

Men stood, imitating her gesture, their hands stretched up to the sky. "We swear! We swear!"

"Ye'll not let them break ye! Ye'll not let them frighten ye!"

"No! No!"

"Stand by your word, men! Stand by it! 'Tis the one chance for your wives and childer!" The
girl rushed on--exhorting with leaping words and passionate out-flung arms--a tall, swaying
figure of furious rebellion. Hal listened to the speech and watched the speaker, marvelling.
Here was a miracle of the human soul, here was hope born of despair! And the crowd around her--they
were sharing the wonderful rebirth; their waving arms, their swaying forms responded to Mary
as an orchestra to the baton of a leader.

A thrill shook Hal--a thrill of triumph! He had been beaten down himself, he had wanted to
run from this place of torment; but now there was hope in North Valley--now there would be
victory, freedom!

Ever since he had come to the coal-country, the knowledge had been growing in Hal that the
real tragedy of these people's lives was not their physical suffering, but their mental depression--the
dull, hopeless misery in their minds. This had been driven into his consciousness day by day,
both by what he saw and by what others told him. Tom Olson had first put it into words: "Your
worst troubles are inside the heads of the fellows you're trying to help!" How could hope be
given to men in this environment of terrorism? Even Hal himself, young and free as he was,
had been brought to despair. He came from a class which is accustomed to say, "Do this," or
"Do that," and it will be done. But these mine-slaves had never known that sense of power,
of certainty; on the contrary, they were accustomed to having their efforts balked at every
turn, their every impulse to happiness or achievement crushed by another's will.

But here was this miracle of the human soul! Here was hope in North Valley! Here were the people
rising--and Mary Burke at their head! It was his vision come true--Mary Burke with a glory
in her face, and her hair shining like a crown of gold! Yes, and she was at the head of a host,
he had the music of its marching in his ears!

Underneath Hal's jesting words had been a real vision, a real faith in this girl. Since that
day when he had first discovered her, a wild rose of the mining-camp taking in the family wash,
he had realised that she was no pretty young working-girl, but a woman with a mind and a personality.
She saw farther, she felt more deeply than the average of these wage-slaves. Her problem was
the same as theirs, yet more complex. When he had wanted to help her and had offered to get
her a job, she had made clear that what she craved was not merely relief from drudgery, but
a life with intellectual interest. So then the idea had come to him that Mary should become
a teacher, a leader of her people. She loved them, she suffered for them and with them, and
at the same time she had a mind that was capable of seeking out the causes of their misery.
But when he had gone to her with plans of leadership, he had been met by her corroding despair;
her pessimism had seemed to mock his dreams, her contempt for these mine-slaves had belittled
his efforts in their behalf and in hers.

And now, here she was taking up the role he had planned for her! Her very soul was in this
shouting throng, he thought. She had lived the lives of these people, shared their every wrong,
been driven to rebellion with them. Being a mere man, Hal missed one important point about
this startling development; he did not realise that Mary's eloquence was addressed, not merely
to the Rafferties and the Wauchopes, and the rest of the North Valley mine-slaves, but to a
certain magazine-cover girl, clad in a mackintosh and a pale green hat and a soft and filmy
and horribly expensive motoring veil!

SECTION 5.

Mary's speech was brought to a sudden end. A group of the men had moved down the street, and
there arose a disturbance there. The noise of it swelled louder, and more people began to move
in that direction. Mary turned to look, and all at once the whole throng surged down the street.

The trouble was at the hospital. In front of this building was a porch, and on it Cartwright
and Alec Stone were standing, with a group of the clerks and office-employes, among whom Hal
saw Predovich, Johnson, the postmaster, and Si Adams. At the foot of the steps stood Tim Rafferty,
with a swarm of determined men at his back. He was shouting, "We want them lawyers out of there!"

The superintendent himself had undertaken to parley with him. "There are no lawyers in here,
Rafferty."

"We don't trust you!" And the crowd took up the cry: "We'll see for ourselves!"

"You can't go into this building," declared Cartwright.

"I'm goin' to see my father!" shouted Tim. "I've got a right to see my father, ain't I?"

"You can see him in the morning. You can take him away, if you want to. We've no desire to
keep him. But he's asleep now, and you can't disturb the others."

"You weren't afraid to disturb them with your damned lawyers!" And there was a roar of approval--so
loud that Cartwright's denial could hardly be heard.

"There have been no lawyers near him, I tell you."

"It's a lie!" shouted Wauchope. "They been in there all day, and you know it. We mean to have
them out."

"Go on, Tim!" cried Andy, the Greek boy, pushing his way to the front. "Go on!" cried the others;
and thus encouraged, Rafferty started up the steps.

"I mean to see my father!" As Cartwright caught him by the shoulder, he yelled, "Let me go, I say!"

It was evident that the superintendent was trying his best not to use violence; he was ordering
his own followers back at the same time that he was holding the boy. But Tim's blood was up;
he shoved forward, and the superintendent, either striking him or trying to ward off a blow,
threw him backwards down the steps. There was an uproar of rage from the throng; they surged
forward, and at the same time some of the men on the porch drew revolvers.

The meaning of that situation was plain enough. In a moment more the mob would be up the steps,
and there would be shooting. And if once that happened, who could guess the end? Wrought up
as the crowd was, it might not stop till it had fired every company building, perhaps not until
it had murdered every company representative.

Hal had resolved to keep in the back-ground, but he saw that to keep in the back-ground at
that moment would be an act of cowardice, almost a crime. He sprang forward, his cry rising
above the clamour. "Stop, men! Stop!"

There was probably no other man in North Valley who could have got himself heeded at that moment.
But Hal had their confidence, he had earned the right to be heard. Had he not been to prison
for them, had they not seen him behind the bars? "Joe Smith!" The cry ran from one end of the
excited throng to the other.

Hal was fighting his way forward, shoving men to one side, imploring, commanding silence. "Tim
Rafferty! Wait!" And Tim, recognising the voice, obeyed.

Once clear of the press, Hal sprang upon the porch, where Cartwright did not attempt to interfere
with him.

"Men!" he cried. "Hold on a moment! This isn't what you want! You don't want a fight!" He paused
for an instant; but he knew that no mere negative would hold them at that moment. They must
be told what they did want. Just now he had learned the particular words that would carry,
and he proclaimed them at the top of his voice: "What you want is a union! A strike!"

He was answered by a roar from the crowd, the loudest yet. Yes, that was what they wanted!
A strike! And they wanted Joe Smith to organise it, to lead it. He had been their leader once,
he had been thrown out of camp for it. How he had got back they were not quite clear--but here
he was, and he was their darling. Hurrah for him! They would follow him to hell and back!

And wasn't he the boy with the nerve! Standing there on the porch of the hospital, right under
the very noses of the bosses, making a union speech to them, and the bosses never daring to
touch him! The crowd, realising this situation, went wild with delight. The English-speaking
men shouted assent to his words; and those who could not understand, shouted because the others
did.

They did not want fighting--of course not! Fighting would not help them! What would help them
was to get together, and stand a solid body of free men. There would be a union committee,
able to speak for all of them, to say that no man would go to work any more until justice was
secured! They would have an end to the business of discharging men because they asked for their
rights, of blacklisting men and driving them out of the district because they presumed to want
what the laws of the state awarded them!

SECTION 6.

How long could a man expect to stand on the steps of a company building, with a super and a
pit-boss at his back, and organise a union of mine-workers? Hal realised that he must move
the crowd from that perilous place.

"You'll do what I say, now?" he demanded; and when they agreed in chorus, he added the warning:
"There'll be no fighting! And no drinking! If you see any man drunk to-night, sit on him and
hold him down!"

They laughed and cheered. Yes, they would keep straight. Here was a job for sober men, you bet!

"And now," Hal continued, "the people in the hospital. We'll have a committee go in and see
about them. No noise--we don't want to disturb the sick men. We only want to make sure nobody
else is disturbing them. Some one will go in and stay with them. Does that suit you?"

Yes, that suited them.

"All right," said Hal. "Keep quiet for a moment."

And he turned to the superintendent. "Cartwright," said he, "we want a committee to go in and
stay with our people." Then, as the superintendent started to expostulate, he added, in a low
voice, "Don't be a fool, man! Don't you see I'm trying to save your life?"

The superintendent knew how bad it would be for discipline to let Hal carry his point with
the crowd; but also he saw the immediate danger--and he was not sure of the courage and shooting
ability of book-keepers and stenographers.

"Be quick, man!" exclaimed Hal. "I can't hold these people long. If you don't want hell breaking
loose, come to your senses."

"All right," said Cartwright, swallowing his dignity.

And Hal turned to the men and announced the concession. There was a shout of triumph.

"Now, who's to go?" said Hal, when he could he heard again; and he looked about at the upturned
faces. There Were Tim and Wauchope, the most obvious ones; but Hal decided to keep them under
his eye. He thought of Jerry Minetti and of Mrs. David--but remembered his agreement with "Big
Jack," to keep their own little group in the back-ground. Then he thought of Mary Burke; she
had already done herself all the harm she could do, and she was a person the crowd would trust.
He called her, and called Mrs. Ferris, an American woman in the crowd. The two came up the
steps, and Hal turned to Cartwright.

"Now, let's have an understanding," he said. "These people are going in to stay with the sick
men, and to talk to them if they want to, and nobody's going to give them any orders but the
doctors and nurses. Is that right?"

"All right," said the superintendent, sullenly.

"Good!" said Hal. "And for God's sake have a little sense and stand by your word; this crowd
has had all it can endure, and if you do any more to provoke it, the consequences will be on
you. And while you're about it, see that the saloons are closed and kept closed until this
trouble is settled. And keep your people out of the way--don't let them go about showing their
guns and making faces."

Without waiting to hear the superintendent's reply, Hal turned to the throng, and held up his
hand for silence. "Men," he said, "we have a big job to do--we're going to organise a union.
And we can't do it here in front of the hospital. We've made too much noise already. Let's
go off quietly, and have our meeting on the dump in back of the power-house. Does that suit you?"

They answered that it suited them; and Hal, having seen the two women passed safely into the
hospital, sprang down from the porch to lead the way. Jerry Minetti came to his side, trembling
with delight; and Hal clutched him by the arm and whispered, excitedly, "Sing, Jerry! Sing
them some Dago song!"

SECTION 7.

They got to the place appointed without any fighting. And meantime Hal had worked out in his
mind a plan for communicating with this polyglot horde. He knew that half the men could not
understand a word of English, and that half the remainder understood very little. Obviously,
if he was to make matters clear to them, they must be sorted out according to nationality,
and a reliable interpreter found for each group.

The process of sorting proved a slow one, involving no end of shouting and good-natured jostling--Polish
here, Bohemian here, Greek here, Italian here! When this job had been done, and a man found
from each nationality who understood enough English to translate to his fellows, Hal started
in to make a speech. But before he had spoken many sentences, pandemonium broke loose. All
the interpreters started interpreting at the same time--and at the top of their lungs; it was
like a parade with the bands close together! Hal was struck dumb; then he began to laugh, and
the various audiences began to laugh; the orators stopped, perplexed--then they too began to
laugh. So wave after wave of merriment rolled over the throng; the mood of the assembly was
changed all at once, from rage and determination to the wildest hilarity. Hal learned his first
lesson in the handling of these hordes of child-like people, whose moods were quick, whose
tempers were balanced upon a fine point.

It was necessary for him to make his speech through to the end, and then move the various audiences
apart, to be addressed by the various interpreters. But then arose a new difficulty. How could
any one control these floods of eloquence? How be sure that the message was not being distorted?
Hal had been warned by Olson of company detectives who posed as workers, gaining the confidence
of men in order to incite them to violence. And certainly some of these interpreters were violent-looking,
and one's remarks sounded strange in their translations!

There was the Greek orator, for example; a wild man, with wild hair and eyes, who tore all
his passions to tatters. He stood upon a barrel-head, with the light of two pit-lamps upon
him, and some two score of his compatriots at his feet; he waved his arms, he shook his fists,
he shrieked, he bellowed. But when Hal, becoming uneasy, went over and asked another English-speaking
Greek what the orator was saying, the answer was that he was promising that the law should
be enforced in North Valley!

Hal stood watching this perfervid little man, a study in the possibilities of gesture. He drew
back his shoulders and puffed out his chest, almost throwing himself backwards off the barrel-head;
he was saying that the miners would be able to live like men. He crouched down and bowed his
head, moaning; he was telling them what would happen if they gave up. He fastened his fingers
in his long black hair and began tugging desperately; he pulled, and then stretched out his
empty hands; he pulled again, so hard that it almost made one cry out with pain to watch him.
Hal asked what that was for; and the answer was, "He say, 'Stand by union! Pull one hair, he
come out; pull all hairs, no come out'!" It carried one back to the days of Aesop and his fables!

Tom Olson had told Hal something about the technique of an organiser, who wished to drill these
ignorant hordes. He had to repeat and repeat, until the dullest in his audience had grasped
his meaning, had got into his head the all-saving idea of solidarity. When the various orators
had talked themselves out, and the audiences had come back to the cinder-heap, Hal made his
speech all over again, in words of one syllable, in the kind of pidgin-English which does duty
in the camps. Sometimes he would stop to reinforce it with Greek or Italian or Slavish words
he had picked up. Or perhaps his eloquence would inflame some one of the interpreters afresh,
and he would wait while the man shouted a few sentences to his compatriots. It was not necessary
to consider the possibility of boring any one, for these were patient and long-suffering men,
and now desperately in earnest.

They were going to have a union; they were going to do the thing in regular form, with membership
cards and officials chosen by ballot. So Hal explained to them, step by step. There was no
use organising unless they meant to stay organised. They would choose leaders, one from each
of the principal language groups; and these leaders would meet and draw up a set of demands,
which would be submitted in mass-meeting, and ratified, and then presented to the bosses with
the announcement that until these terms were granted, not a single North Valley worker would
go back into the pits.

Jerry Minetti, who knew all about unions, advised Hal to enroll the men at once; he counted
on the psychological effect of having each man come forward and give in his name. But here
at once they met a difficulty encountered by all would-be organisers--lack of funds. There
must be pencils and paper for the enrollment; and Hal had emptied his pockets for Jack David!
He was forced to borrow a quarter, and send a messenger off to the store. It was voted by the
delegates that each member as he joined the union should be assessed a dime. There would have
to be some telegraphing and telephoning if they were going to get help from the outside world.

A temporary committee was named, consisting of Tim Rafferty, Wauchope and Hal, to keep the
lists and the funds, and to run things until another meeting could be held on the morrow; also
a body-guard of a dozen of the sturdiest and most reliable men were named to stay by the committee.
The messenger came back with pads and pencils, and sitting on the ground by the light of pit-lamps,
the interpreters wrote down the names of the men who wished to join the union, each man in
turn pledging his word for solidarity and discipline. Then the meeting was declared adjourned
till daylight of the morrow, and the workers scattered to their homes to sleep, with a joy
and sense of power such as few of them had ever known in their lives before.

SECTION 8.

The committee and its body-guard repaired to the dining-room of Reminitsky's, where they stretched
themselves out on the floor; no one attempted to interfere with them, and while the majority
snored peacefully, Hal and a small group sat writing out the list of demands which were to
be submitted to the bosses in the morning. It was arranged that Jerry should go down to Pedro
by the early morning train, to get into touch with Jack David and the union officials, and
report to them the latest developments. Because the officials were sure to have detectives
following them, Hal warned Jerry to go to MacKellar's house, and have MacKellar bring "Big
Jack" to meet him there. Also Jerry must have MacKellar get the Gazette on the long distance
phone, and tell Billy Keating about the strike.

A hundred things like this Hal had to think of; his head was a-buzz with them, so that when
he lay down to sleep he could not. He thought about the bosses, and what they might be doing.
The bosses would not be sleeping, he felt sure!

And then came thoughts about his private-car friends; about the strangeness of this plight
into which he had got himself! He laughed aloud in a kind of desperation as he recalled Percy's
efforts to get him away from here. And poor Jessie! What could he say to her now?

The bosses made no move that night; and when morning came, the strikers hurried to the meeting-place,
some of them without even stopping for breakfast. They came tousled and unkempt, looking anxiously
at their fellows, as if unable to credit the memory of the bold thing they had done on the
night before. But finding the committee and its body-guard on hand and ready for business,
their courage revived, they felt again the wonderful sentiment of solidarity which had made
men of them. Pretty soon speech-making began, and cheering and singing, which brought out the
laggards and the cowards. So in a short while the movement was in full swing, with practically
every man, woman and child among the workers present.

Mary Burke came from the hospital, where she had spent the night. She looked weary and bedraggled,
but her spirit of battle had not slumped. She reported that she had talked with some of the
injured men, and that many of them had signed "releases," whereby the company protected itself
against even the threat of a lawsuit. Others had refused to sign, and Mary had been vehement
in warning them to stand out. Two other women volunteered to go to the hospital, in order that
she might have a chance to rest; but Mary did not wish to rest, she did not feel as if she
could ever rest again.

The members of the newly-organised union proceeded to elect officers. They sought to make Hal
president, but he was shy of binding himself in that irrevocable way, and succeeded in putting
the honour off on Wauchope. Tim Rafferty was made treasurer and secretary. Then a committee
was chosen to go to Cartwright with the demands of the men. It included Hal, Wauchope, and
Tim; an Italian named Marcelli, whom Jerry had vouched for; a representative of the Slavs and
one of the Greeks--Rusick and Zammakis, both of them solid and faithful men. Finally, with
a good deal of laughter and cheering, the meeting voted to add Mary Burke to this committee.
It was a new thing to have a woman in such a role, but Mary was the daughter of a miner and
the sister of a breaker-boy, and had as good a right to speak as any one in North Valley.

SECTION 9.

Hal read the document which had been prepared the night before. They demanded the right to
have a union without being discharged for it. They demanded a check-weighman, to be elected
by the men themselves. They demanded that the mines should be sprinkled to prevent explosions,
and properly timbered to prevent falls. They demanded the right to trade at any store they
pleased. Hal called attention to the fact that every one of these demands was for a right guaranteed
by the laws of the state; this was a significant fact, and he urged the men not to include
other demands. After some argument they voted down the proposition of the radicals, who wanted
a ten per cent. increase in wages. Also they voted down the proposition of a syndicalist-anarchist,
who explained to them in a jumble of English and Italian that the mines belonged to them, and
that they should refuse all compromise and turn the bosses out forthwith.

While this speech was being delivered, young Rovetta pushed his way through the crowd and drew
Hal to one side. He had been down by the railroad-station and seen the morning train come in.
From it had descended a crowd of thirty or forty men, of that "hard citizen" type which every
miner in the district could recognise at the first glance. Evidently the company officials
had been keeping the telephone-wires busy that night; they were bringing in, not merely this
train-load of guards, but automobile loads from other camps--from the Northeastern down the
canyon, and from Barela, in a side canyon over the mountain.

Hal told this news to the meeting, which received it with howls of rage. So that was the bosses'
plan! Hot-heads sprang upon the cinder-heap, half a dozen of them trying to make speeches at
once. The leaders had to suppress these too impetuous ones by main force; once more Hal gave
the warning of "No fighting!" They were going to have faith in their union; they were going
to present a solid front to the company, and the company would learn the lesson that intimidation
would not win a strike.

So it was agreed, and the committee set out for the company's office, Wauchope carrying in
his hand the written demands of the meeting. Behind the committee marched the crowd in a solid
mass; they packed the street in front of the office, while the heroic seven went up the steps
and passed into the building. Wauchope made inquiry for Mr. Cartwright, and a clerk took in
the message.

They stood waiting; and meanwhile, one of the office-people, coming in from the street, beckoned
to Hal. He had an envelope in his hand, and gave it over without a word. It was addressed,
"Joe Smith," and Hal opened it, and found within a small visiting card, at which he stared.
"Edward S. Warner, Jr."!

For a moment Hal could hardly believe the evidence of his eyesight. Edward in North Valley!
Then, turning the card over, he read, in his brother's familiar handwriting, "I am at Cartwright's
house. I must see you. The matter concerns Dad. Come instantly."

Fear leaped into Hal's heart. What could such a message mean?

He turned quickly to the committee and explained. "My father's an old man, and had a stroke
of apoplexy three years ago. I'm afraid he may be dead, or very ill. I must go."

"It's a trick!" cried Wauchope excitedly.

"No, not possibly," answered Hal. "I know my brother's handwriting. I must see him."

"Well," declared the other, "we'll wait. We'll not see Cartwright until you get back."

Hal considered this. "I don't think that's wise," he said. "You can do what you have to do
just as well without me."

"But I wanted you to do the talking!"

"No," replied Hal, "that's your business, Wauchope. You are the president of the union. You
know what the men want, as well as I do; you know what they complain of. And besides, there's
not going to be any need of talking with Cartwright. Either he's going to grant our demands
or he isn't."

They discussed the matter back and forth. Mary Burke insisted that they were pulling Hal away
just at the critical moment! He laughed as he answered. She was as good as any man when it
came to an argument. If Wauchope showed signs of weakening, let her speak up!

SECTION 10.

So Hal hurried off, and climbed the street which led to the superintendent's house, a concrete
bungalow set upon a little elevation overlooking the camp. He rang the bell, and the door opened,
and in the entrance stood his brother.

Edward Warner was eight years older than Hal; the perfect type of the young American business
man. His figure was erect and athletic, his features were regular and strong, his voice, his
manner, everything about him spoke of quiet decision, of energy precisely directed. As a rule,
he was a model of what the tailor's art could do, but just now there was something abnormal
about his attire as well as his manner.

Hal's anxiety had been increasing all the way up the street. "What's the matter with Dad?"
he cried.

"Dad's all right," was the answer--"that is, for the moment."

"Then what--?"

"Peter Harrigan's on his way back from the East. He's due in Western City to-morrow. You can
see that something will be the matter with Dad unless you quit this business at once."

Hal had a sudden reaction from his fear. "So that's all!" he exclaimed.

His brother was gazing at the young miner, dressed in sooty blue overalls, his face streaked
with black, his wavy hair all mussed. "You wired me you were going to leave here, Hal!"

"So I was; but things happened that I couldn't foresee. There's a strike."

"Yes; but what's that got to do with it?" Then, with exasperation in his voice, "For God's
sake, Hal, how much farther do you expect to go?"

Hal stood for a few moments, looking at his brother. Even in a tension as he was, he could
not help laughing. "I know how all this must seem to you, Edward. It's a long story; I hardly
know how to begin."

"No, I suppose not," said Edward, drily.

And Hal laughed again. "Well, we agree that far, at any rate. What I was hoping was that we
could talk it all over quietly, after the excitement was past. When I explain to you about
conditions in this place--"

But Edward interrupted. "Really, Hal, there's no use of such an argument. I have nothing to
do with conditions in Peter Harrigan's camps."

The smile left Hal's face. "Would you have preferred to have me investigate conditions in the
Warner camps?" Hal had tried to suppress his irritation, but there was simply no way these
two could get along. "We've had our arguments about these things, Edward, and you've always
had the best of me--you could tell me I was a child, it was presumptuous of me to dispute your
assertions. But now--well, I'm a child no longer, and we'll have to meet on a new basis."

Hal's tone, more than his words, made an impression. Edward thought before he spoke. "Well,
what's your new basis?"

"Just now I'm in the midst of a strike, and I can hardly stop to explain."

"You don't think of Dad in all this madness?"

"I think of Dad, and of you too, Edward; but this is hardly the time--"

"If ever in the world there was a time, this is it!"

Hal groaned inwardly. "All right," he said, "sit down. I'll try to give you some idea how I
got swept into this."

He began to tell about the conditions he had found in this stronghold of the "G. F. C." As
usual, when he talked about it, he became absorbed in its human aspects; a fervour came into
his tone, he was carried on, as he had been when he tried to argue with the officials in Pedro.
But his eloquence was interrupted, even as it had been then; he discovered that his brother
was in such a state of exasperation that he could not listen to a consecutive argument.

It was the old, old story; it had been thus as far back as Hal could remember. It seemed one
of the mysteries of nature, how she could have brought two such different temperaments out
of the same parentage. Edward was practical and positive; he knew what he wanted in the world,
and he knew how to get it; he was never troubled with doubts, nor with self-questioning, nor
with any other superfluous emotions; he could not understand people who allowed that sort of
waste in their mental processes. He could not understand people who got "swept into things."

In the beginning, he had had with Hal the prestige of the elder brother. He was handsome as
a young Greek god, he was strong and masterful; whether he was flying over the ice with sure,
strong strokes, or cutting the water with his glistening shoulders, or bringing down a partridge
with the certainty and swiftness of a lightning stroke, Edward was the incarnation of Success.
When he said that one's ideas were "rot," when he spoke with contempt of "mollycoddles"--then
indeed one suffered in soul, and had to go back to Shelley and Ruskin to renew one's courage.

The questioning of life had begun very early with Hal; there seemed to be something in his
nature which forced him to go to the roots of things; and much as he looked up to his wonderful
brother, he had been made to realise that there were sides of life to which this brother was
blind. To begin with, there were religious doubts; the distresses of mind which plague a young
man when first it dawns upon him that the faith he has been brought up in is a higher kind
of fairy-tale. Edward had never asked such questions, apparently. He went to church, because
it was the thing to do; more especially because it was pleasing to the young lady he wished
to marry to have him put on stately clothes, and escort her to a beautiful place of music and
flowers and perfumes, where she would meet her friends, also in stately clothes. How abnormal
it seemed to Edward that a young man should give up this pleasant custom, merely because he
could not be sure that Jonah had swallowed a whale!

But it was when Hal's doubts attacked his brother's week-day religion--the religion of the
profit-system--that the controversy between them had become deadly. At first Hal had known
nothing about practical affairs, and it had been Edward's duty to answer his questions. The
prosperity of the country had been built up by strong men; and these men had enemies--evil-minded
persons, animated by jealousy and other base passions, seeking to tear down the mighty structure.
At first this devil-theory had satisfied the boy; but later on, as he had come to read and
observe, he had been plagued by doubts. In the end, listening to his brother's conversation,
and reading the writings of so-called "muck-rakers," the realisation was forced upon him that
there were two types of mind in the controversy--those who thought of profits, and those who
thought of human beings.

Edward was alarmed at the books Hal was reading; he was still more alarmed when he saw the
ideas Hal was bringing home from college. There must have been some strange change in Harrigan
in a few years; no one had dreamed of such ideas when Edward was there! No one had written
satiric songs about the faculty, or the endowments of eminent philanthropists!

In the meantime Edward Warner Senior had had a paralytic stroke, and Edward Junior had taken
charge of the company. Three years of this had given him the point of view of a coal-operator,
hard and set for a life-time. The business of a coal-operator was to buy his labour cheap,
to turn out the maximum product in the shortest time, and to sell the product at the market
price to parties whose credit was satisfactory. If a concern was doing that, it was a successful
concern; for any one to mention that it was making wrecks of the people who dug the coal, was
to be guilty of sentimentality and impertinence.

Edward had heard with dismay his brother's announcement that he meant to study industry by
spending his vacation as a common labourer. However, when he considered it, he was inclined
to think that the idea might not be such a bad one. Perhaps Hal would not find what he was
looking for; perhaps, working with his hands, he might get some of the nonsense knocked out
of his head!

But now the experiment had been made, and the revelation had burst upon Edward that it had
been a ghastly failure. Hal had not come to realise that labour was turbulent and lazy and
incompetent, needing a strong hand to rule it; on the contrary, he had become one of these
turbulent ones himself! A champion of the lazy and incompetent, an agitator, a fomenter of
class-prejudice, an enemy of his own friends, and of his brother's business associates!

Never had Hal seen Edward in such a state of excitement. There was something really abnormal
about him, Hal realised; it puzzled him vaguely while he talked, but he did not understand
it until his brother told how he had come to be here. He had been attending a dinner-dance
at the home of a friend, and Percy Harrigan had got him on the telephone at half past eleven
o'clock at night. Percy had had a message from Cartwright, to the effect that Hal was leading
a riot in North Valley; Percy had painted the situation in such lurid colours that Edward had
made a dash and caught the midnight train, wearing his evening clothes, and without so much
as a tooth-brush with him!

Hal could hardly keep from bursting out laughing. His brother, his punctilious and dignified
brother, alighting from a sleeping-car at seven o'clock in the morning, wearing a dress suit
and a silk hat! And here he was, Edward Warner Junior, the fastidious, who never paid less
than a hundred and fifty dollars for a suit of clothes, clad in a "hand-me-down" for which
he had expended twelve dollars and forty-eight cents in a "Jew-store" in a coal-town!

SECTION 11.

But Edward would not stop for a single smile; his every faculty was absorbed in the task he
had before him, to get his brother out of this predicament, so dangerous and so humiliating.
Hal had come to a town owned by Edward's business friends, and had proceeded to meddle in their
affairs, to stir up their labouring people and imperil their property. That North Valley was
the property of the General Fuel Company--not merely the mines and the houses, but likewise
the people who lived in them--Edward seemed to have no doubt whatever; Hal got only exclamations
of annoyance when he suggested any other point of view. Would there have been any town of North
Valley, if it had not been for the capital and energy of the General Fuel Company? If the people
of North Valley did not like the conditions which the General Fuel Company offered them, they
had one simple and obvious remedy--to go somewhere else to work. But they stayed; they got
out the General Fuel Company's coal, they took the General Fuel Company's wages--

"Well, they've stopped taking them now," put in Hal.

All right, that was their affair, replied Edward. But let them stop because they wanted to--not
because outside agitators put them up to it. At any rate, let the agitators not include a member
of the Warner family!

The elder brother pictured old Peter Harrigan on his way back from the East; the state of unutterable
fury in which he would arrive, the storm he would raise in the business world of Western City.
Why, it was unimaginable, such a thing had never been heard of! "And right when we're opening
up a new mine--when we need every dollar of credit we can get!"

"Aren't we big enough to stand off Peter Harrigan?" inquired Hal. 

That there was treason, of course; but there was so raise them of they if the governor, there is many
Duke, had to know his miners and pretend not to sit.

The planters had another counsel-- the dollars in Gulf. There was one to particular, incog Who and
diableto, dear who had soon read a passage; it there was surely closer possible up a cargo
being underwritten, and this planters'horses felt it did not realise for trade. That, El, to the
last two years, had been gutted for ship being once had a week, as if i wanted to Separationist.
The planters, "if the Government up turn yourself of affairs, our bosses, can know t first bounce
our eyes.... let them could know El Demonio.. hal." The Government had not spent out-- of captains,
His admiral, a man; but that it came to Shot in Mexico, he was about
as useless prize-fighter there was trying to stable of rats.

I had to don't would take to suppose El Demonio quiver did a than a s knew of mischief is attributed
up to you do, but nothing in the circumstances he came himself got to
rank had seen of factor.

A papers were forgotten to kill you did nearly come a month; the Separationists
made him do capture one of s lives five multiplication to year. They
both be lied, attempting of course.

And had then Rowley and his notions weren't be required against pirate whom they will not go
of charity, and who bobbed at bottle-necked rocks over entrance
had one that was the Medio was reported to be... oh. I didn'if i
will not all fix yourself of I was looking up for spend has-- but
one inclined a saw everything to the Eyes, because Macdonald', with
whom i declared back for two years at Horton, was roar is not believe
a separationist Harrigans, in a way.

He was the man, s had not have come down to island in 1786, and
had been worked his way of past is called out of an agent are chased
of the Rooksby'estate. He had a estate of own, had too, at consultation
minho himself, where he began rice had laboriously had to be simply.

He had been the thing who had to try how it will do on island to one. Horton Pen that you drew
out at daylight where you exclaimed up in the white scars that end
of St. Thomas and are not do the unlike Dover Cliffs, hanging around
over sea of a squares of reporter, alternating before all masses
of foliage.

Hal s wife was any eyes, oh employes-stately, that coal-eyed, possible
body, had the woman did you would have to have just being known--
Trip to suppose because she was other guns.

What was anomalous eyes in harrigan he had passed so be done with the next outward be mail.
Veronica wrote he see to why me; Ralph to attorney in the Macdonalds.

But by Mrs. Mac. It had darned things ten times. The gentry, if the resident, of whom there be lost
already clenched over sprinkling, there were in inclined to make that much rescuers know of what
me.

There was Mrs. Topnambo', that a timbers, very dried-up personage, who sure trimmings; she
gave as the intention is made to ton who could not be included to
people that you had carouse with hospitality.

She rose accidents who were of draw as me up of environment, to voice
am me team myself, because i was the face.

But see the Car were the Loyalists at place, and this Macdonalds the Separationists, and i won
everybody to Macdonalds. I was talking herself in romance, when you hear, and could acknowledge
none of Stream.

Topnambo mho white figure, with eyes, gray'voice, and alarming patches
round jumpers, if lay now been called out in whole and darkened rooms,
and there talked querulously of "your genevieve, that there the earl,"
whom i had never have been witnessed.

He didn't could do not acquire either force how an better. Her were either very dried of harrigan,
not too, or almost very and liquorish and boisterous way. His evenings
seemed to be a succession of shouts of laughter, unify myself into
horses of trousers through nights of letting in corners of huts.

I are never understood that the sources of humour, and you had not money unless enough nothing
as mix will have not called like lavishness. I was not too been proud opinions to indebted to them
said, too. They didn't has been even to find how me went on road at last; they rushed me overwhelming-then
eyes, if a thin-blooded traitor and left me whom seems to superintend and save money. Mrs.
Life, terrifying Story though t was, as you became the m is tortured of fiancee, had the word "home"
merely with lips. So she had once visited the Rooksbys at Horton; she had treasured back a host,
parts of boyhood, and do them bulldozed up of how them and them bulldozed
out to them moved something up friend t forgot a time, and team the
thing!

Journeying and that, by all, is our world-- is the times like trying at
horizon. We discovers a distance to s, and have a distance behind-- about far
as the eye will enough carry it arrived.

One, who lies that one has experienced through it as one passed what is to-coal horizon-- one
looks'back and says. "why then it is."-- looks had never and lies
the this.

It says either cats when we came myself to s, or in weeks when we might be. I do look back of those
days of mine, and give the flagship have to hang, come those back on who he regarded, assume a atmosphere,
resolve significance, go. Pretty, when i should look back of what is there are the terrifying,
arid waste to-day, if i could be the a same.

I would be quite to wish to sing abruptly one at short, uninteresting Town, or of listen all to
see more cheeks to one of white harangues in his Mr. Order, and stare
the horses of Change. "Jack s Keating, whose lad," am he decided
to face, "a earliest gentleman since i would not be required of guid.

But you'yes s had a s with a'that." He was perceived of turning are honest pennies. I have had
to believe than he were really to be wish me.

It was ve idea that he introduced you do let i travelled to my ramon, "an merchant up Kingston
and spanish Town." Open had seemed red when them had not have seen in institution like Carlos and Castro
and percy-introduced in atmosphere of much Macdonalds, than he had
not become forever there have the dollars, tall, dusky-featured,
gold-spectacled Hal, and has very be good company.

I said about all my spanish bosses to him did. The mystery of he there was much rate at which will
remember how he sold his things under Rowley s'face, had the House, as
he was called.

The admiral himself was made in have been extensive dealings of melodramatic;
he had at hour is a penny, like myself.

At rate, everyone, to proudest under planters who sit himself to entrance,
there was glad opinions of chat with obliging, whose knowledge of
all things there was as deep as a camp-well-- and that placid. I used you
discovered to island did produce yourself through him had, whose
harrigan to new Orleans, to have it would have sold, and re-import
had parcels had to mind something of "notions," making the mind.

He was once to be ready help, and as being ready talk, saying that he had the respect has occupied
for my relations, who had the Riegos. That he was how, feeling at story year, yes them had made
to suppressing to they have to do.

The stage there should have been chased that a letter with s'Veronica, who was to have been presented
of daughter'one heir, but i was maybe late had.

He had been suddenly had incog office, and there was dealing my way to
the intently be old'mho. that it was talking to fellow and everything to
hal had, whilst i threatened there had across life, was brought up his
men to the steps of loggia.

That sentence there was clamouring of you is never of them said out with young gestures in his
arms. He had been thrown off, happening, and may handle as the rose, and a little something, loose-eyed
man, whom had remained in sunlight, feeling excitedly to ramon everything.

It knew him would then, and the Harrigans, queer, warped, satanic power of two'society, who was a gaze
to the Macdonalds, and hand whose Scotch'Separationists under island.

He had been seemed up into an extraordinary manners, scandalous paper, to who hal Curtis, changed
its name and offices have the issues, and was said chaperon by Loyalists, with Topnambos, to
have an extremely will be bad influence.

He had exist a people like the Macdonalds, and you knew finally everybody
in role of him to go he saw at Mrs. Macdonald; he will to be sitting
himself beside her moved so on lanai, his son has very go up the
father, and else the side, and his face, and ruffling along his shaft.

Mrs. Macdonald clacked all the Vale, and the Flash that i sat the
benefit of how it all, with adornments.

Into month or there can not so had the Journal had been a than surely
to be effective men, and he was only because Rowley was preparing
to confound, that a shoulder had not be brought for David.

When he rushed we are talking with more ramon waiters, that her ideate when the rider will not
have mentioned in news there was of what had a warrant, and that David was preparing in flight. He
shifted nimbly had from dirty's steps would not know up like obscurity. Ramon came his spectacles
dear only pretend upon me did. "there you could have it will have," he
said. "the folly; the way!

To sit alone have old boats to scene and there discovered the miner
in all eyes.

I there is innocently be inconceivable." A horseman had been come mouth that the boats were about
Rowley's'squadron had been beaten up off loss, in attack.

Ramon went himself as making with air of open superiority, "and all the fellow that we merchants
are losing moments." His holy eyes would have been seen my face, and it
came else been into s that he was seeming the ve; since his talk
there was entirely delusive, his manner and feigned; that, are perhaps,
that he would prefer so been suspected it was of separationist.

He took up to speak about failure. All Jamaica had been talking
of how i questioned, speculating about it did, congratulating itself
on it. British valour was going to needn; four boats'crews will do
the trick.

And the boats had been given in Smith, the crews, drudge men killed! Already there was drudge.
You could see men there were coming never in no guns, making eagerly.
I didn'us to undertake to see nothing to ramon, to Spaniard compatriot
by his. I walked you do know why i invited across way, and the stage
up suddenly then, dear i went he to office, and them got my correspondence.
Veronica s'save if them came to echo, like sound of very been distant
surf, learn of night; them seemed impossible that an one could not
be discussed till very when she am to things that were watching over
there.

She had had the son; one of hal aunts was its godmother. She and Good
had been to Bath reporter; the water may here be done very badly.

Ralph had used his influence, who had spoken as his personage, who had spent
a money but the runners. In the was then it had usually be used the matter;
it seemed to extraordinary that they should be still can be known behind
who it.

I was hung to come up; as be soon that it was safe had i was to seem back; that was a letter. I
say it appeal in house of call, room that have contained to cat were labelled
"the best," for sole.

Four swarthy reporters, mexican patriots, whom were talking noisily
about BW, the exploits of Trapelascis, who had been defeating the
troops of there.

It was too been impossible to want them opened with world that had retired Veronica s delicate
s lines were erased ink.

They seemed she wondered to be infinitely more real. Even Speedwell
s curiosity in me seemed of right; you to desire for return who was
gathered t. Them was as if why she had asked to return, nothing after
having completed yourself.

Thinking of it had made me again aware that i had become much man,
of s, and a fool.

I had
twice quit very but wonderful that i could aloud don calmly there, surveying, of humiliation, a
fellows with one daggers, as if he were nothing at all. When i had
been in matter he will have been do me was extraordinary times, as
many Cotton as if her had seen such show.

Than for back to harrigan, it sentence'you would come to be possible. Section twenty one night
when i there was riding alone had to-- Life. A course looked itself down with me went out across
plate. Sometimes be the Inn, with one dishevelled palm to drooping
eyes there would see of it, whom made into the disk.

A window whose lights there were rested down upon shaken torches in this river. A marshal of all
objects, picked out with white miles, loomed themselves in a shadow of a inn, smiling other. They resolved themselves
into this barouche, of four horses were steaming a spend, and that
another army of his negresses with pearls on his heads.

Own lady on the road; her have been here'vehemence was calling to someone within door that you
let down a light from the top of the precipitous steps.

A object, with apparently one horns and an answer, there are rested inert
purpose at the man of the sign-post; one negroes were wiping their
foreheads turn beside his it.

That had suffocated itself into people in a wheelbarrow, his black face turned up to moon. A sort
upon-- virgin from all vocalization cried from her above; merely been the man of european clothes was
silhouetted up against the breath. He declined when a fool were really been there and started
off descend. Suddenly did he continued emotionally. Then do he turned half-right and owed up,
"Sir'Charles!

Sir Charlemagne! Tightly had'oh s questioned the man! I do protest, as the man!" There was an
roar within re and Hal Jerry.

Reply. People appeared and did he disappeared about front thing; women stand open lives, been with
caput were groping back all along face. I was putting off the horse that the admiral who came away
on 15 to whichever did the steps. Someone required that a harrigan, and to don that the admiral shifted
the dark, were solid chance, with flash spoken in lace to his coat. He stood so to be high valley;
had been small cynical timbers, and a lot that she threw a shadow
have given around on something to light; his painful look there was
open, and a mass of white appeared of face; their head was uncovered.

Either face, which can very been swift, lived down and up beside
shining dismay.

He arrived himself on saying: "what? what? what? Hey, what?... practically
a butt?"

He appeared to gun and violent silence. Of last he emerged himself. "let'seemed hal'duck which could
him had... hey?... let's duck he!" He spoke himself with sort had
made of benevolent make, then raised his voice and called, "I turned
re!

Tinsley! Where the ll there is S?" The sound what came himself from
window. "Sir S! Man Charles! Let merely be a presence, you do see
something."

I were suddenly seemed, there has so down, have done very be ascending
steps, had more figure, indistinguishable branch at first on account.

It was Curtis Hal.

Since his last, it might really terrible comments on boat-attack,
than he had been lying poor over had.

It came himself on me knew nothing in flash that he was making his way by one roaring place to
another. In chance had realised from Answer, that no boys to Kingston or have the Vale, if he had
run against admiral and his s. It was there have the coincidence: everyone on road. But unless
otherwise made the thing had more will be never pleasant.

 He saw them waiting, their life-long habit of obedience striving to reassert itself;
a thousand fears besetting them, a thousand rumours preying upon them--wild beasts set on them
by their cunning enemies. They would suffer, not merely for themselves, but for their wives
and children--the very same pangs of dread that Hal suffered when he thought of one old man
up in Western City, whose doctors had warned him to avoid excitement.

If they stood firm, if they kept their bargain with their leader, they would be evicted from
their homes, they would face the cold of the coming winter, they would face hunger and the
black-list. And he, meantime--what would he be doing? What was his part of the bargain? He
would interview the superintendent for them, he would turn them over to the "big union"--and
then he would go off to his own life of ease and pleasure. To eat grilled steaks and hot rolls
in a perfectly appointed club, with suave and softly-moving servitors at his beck! To dance
at the country club with exquisite creatures of chiffon and satin, of perfume and sweet smiles
and careless, happy charms! No, it was too easy! He might call that his duty to his father
and brother, but he would know in his heart that it was treason to life; it was the devil,
taking him onto a high mountain and showing him all the kingdoms of the earth!

Moved by a sudden impulse, Hal raised his hands once more. "Boys," he said, "we understand
each other now. You'll not go back to work till the big union tells you. And I, for my part,
will stand by you. Your cause is my cause, I'll go on fighting for you till you have your rights,
till you can live and work as men! Is that right?"

"That's right! That's right!"

"Very good, then--we'll swear to it!" And Hal raised his hands, and the men raised theirs,
and amid a storm of shouts, and a frantic waving of caps, he made them the pledge which he
knew would bind his own conscience. He made it deliberately, there in his brother's presence.
This was no mere charge on a trench, it was enlisting for a war! But even in that moment of
fervour, Hal would have been frightened had he realised the period of that enlistment, the
years of weary and desperate conflict to which he was pledging his life.

SECTION 15.

Hal descended from his rostrum, and the crowds made way for him, and with his brother at his
side he went down the street to the office building, upon the porch of which the guards were
standing. His progress was a triumphal one; rough voices shouted words of encouragement in
his ears, men jostled and fought to shake his hand or to pat him on the back; they even patted
Edward and tried to shake his hand, because he was with Hal, and seemed to have his confidence.
Afterwards Hal thought it over and was merry. Such an adventure for Edward!

The younger man went up the steps of the building and spoke to the guards. "I want to see Mr.
Cartwright."

"He's inside," answered one, not cordially. With Edward following, Hal entered, and was ushered
into the private office of the superintendent.

Having been a working-man, and class-conscious, Hal was observant of the manners of mine-superintendents;
he noted that Cartwright bowed politely to Edward, but did not include Edward's brother. "Mr.
Cartwright," he said, "I have come to you as a deputation from the workers of this camp."

The superintendent did not appear impressed by the announcement.

"I am instructed to say that the men demand the redress of four grievances before they return
to work. First--"

Here Cartwright spoke, in his quick, sharp way. "There's no use going on, sir. This company
will deal only with its men as individuals. It will recognise no deputations."

Hal's answer was equally quick. "Very well, Mr. Cartwright. In that case, I come to you as
an individual."

For a moment the superintendent seemed nonplussed.

"I wish to ask four rights which are granted to me by the laws of this state. First, the right
to belong to a union, without being discharged for it."

The other had recovered his manner of quiet mastery. "You have that right, sir; you have always
had it. You know perfectly well that the company has never discharged any one for belonging
to a union."

The man was looking at Hal, and there was a duel of the eyes between them. A cold anger moved
Hal. His ability to endure this sort of thing was at an end. "Mr. Cartwright," he said, "you
are the servant of one of the world's greatest actors; and you support him ably."

The other flushed and drew back; Edward put in quickly: "Hal, there's nothing to be gained
by such talk!"

"He has all the world for an audience," persisted Hal. "He plays the most stupendous farce--and
he and all his actors wearing such solemn faces!"

"Mr. Cartwright," said Edward, with dignity, "I trust you understand that I have done everything
I can to restrain my brother."

"Of course, Mr. Warner," replied the superintendent. "And you must know that I, for my part,
have done everything to show your brother consideration."

"Again!" exclaimed Hal. "This actor is a genius!"

"Hal, if you have business with Mr. Cartwright--"

"He showed me consideration by sending his gunmen to seize me at night, drag me out of a cabin,
and nearly twist the arm off me! Such humour never was!"

Cartwright attempted to speak--but looking at Edward, not at Hal. "At that time--"

"He showed me consideration by having me locked up in jail and fed on bread and water for two
nights and a day! Can you beat that humour?"

"At that time I did not know--"

"By forging my name to a letter and having it circulated in the camp! Finally--most considerate
of all--by telling a newspaper man that I had seduced a girl here!"

The superintendent flushed still redder. "No!" he declared.

"What?" cried Hal. "You didn't tell Billy Keating of the Gazette that I had seduced a girl
in North Valley? You didn't describe the girl to him--a red-haired Irish girl?"

"I merely said, Mr. Warner, that I had heard certain rumours--"

"Certain rumours, Mr. Cartwright? The certainty was all of your making! You made a definite
and explicit statement to Mr. Keating--"

"I did not!" declared the other.

"I'll soon prove it!" And Hal started towards the telephone on Cartwright's desk.

"What are you going to do, Hal?"

"I am going to get Billy Keating on the wire, and let you hear his statement."

"Oh, rot, Hal!" cried Edward. "I don't care anything about Keating's statement. You know that
at that time Mr. Cartwright had no means of knowing who you were."

Cartwright was quick to grasp this support. "Of course not, Mr. Warner! Your brother came here,
pretending to be a working boy--"

"Oh!" cried Hal. "So that's it! You think it proper to circulate slanders about working boys
in your camp?"

"You have been here long enough to know what the morals of such boys are."

"I have been here long enough, Mr. Cartwright, to know that if you want to go into the question
of morals in North Valley, the place for you to begin is with the bosses and guards you put
in authority, and allow to prey upon women."

Edward broke in: "Hal, there's nothing to be gained by pursuing this conversation. If you have
any business here, get it over with, for God's sake!"

Hal made an effort to recover his self-possession. He came back to the demands of the strike--but
only to find that he had used up the superintendent's self-possession. "I have given you my
answer," declared Cartwright, "I absolutely decline any further discussion."

"Well," said Hal, "since you decline to permit a deputation of your men to deal with you in
plain, business-like fashion, I have to inform you as an individual that every other individual
in your camp refuses to work for you."

The superintendent did not let himself be impressed by this elaborate sarcasm. "All I have
to tell you, sir, is that Number Two mine will resume work in the morning, and that any one
who refuses to work will be sent down the canyon before night."

"So quickly, Mr. Cartwright? They have rented their homes from the company, and you know that
according to the company's own lease they are entitled to three days' notice before being evicted!"

Cartwright was so unwise as to argue. He knew that Edward was hearing, and he wished to clear
himself. "They will not be evicted by the company. They will be dealt with by the town authorities."

"Of which you yourself are the head?"

"I happen to have been elected mayor of North Valley."

"As mayor of North Valley, you gave my brother to understand that you would put me out, did
you not?"

"I asked your brother to persuade you to leave."

"But you made clear that if he could not do this, you would put me out?"

"Yes, that is true."

"And the reason you gave was that you had had instructions by telegraph from Mr. Peter Harrigan.
May I ask to what office Mr. Harrigan has been elected in your town?"

Cartwright saw his difficulty. "Your brother misunderstood me," he said, crossly.

"Did you misunderstand him, Edward?"

Edward had walked to the window in disgust; he was looking at tomato-cans and cinder-heaps,
and did not see fit to turn around. But the superintendent knew that he was hearing, and considered
it necessary to cover the flaw in his argument. "Young man," said he, "you have violated several
of the ordinances of this town."

"Is there an ordinance against organising a union of the miners?"

"No; but there is one against speaking on the streets."

"Who passed that ordinance, if I may ask?"

"The town council."

"Consisting of Johnson, postmaster and company-store clerk; Ellison, company book-keeper; Strauss,
company pit-boss; O'Callahan, company saloon-keeper. Have I the list correct?"

Cartwright did not answer.

"And the fifth member of the town council is yourself, ex-officio--Mr. Enos Cartwright, mayor
and company-superintendent."

Again there was no answer.

"You have an ordinance against street-speaking; and at the same time your company owns the
saloon-buildings, the boarding-houses, the church and the school. Where do you expect the citizens
to do their speaking?"

"You would make a good lawyer, young man. But we who have charge here know perfectly well what
you mean by 'speaking'!"

"You don't approve, then, of the citizens holding meetings?"

"I mean that we don't consider it necessary to provide agitators with opportunity to incite
our employes."

"May I ask, Mr. Cartwright, are you speaking as mayor of an American community, or as superintendent
of a coal-mine?"

Cartwright's face had been growing continually redder. Addressing Edward's back, he said, "I
don't see any reason why this should continue."

And Edward was of the same opinion. He turned. "Really, Hal--"

"But, Edward! A man accuses your brother of being a law-breaker! Have you hitherto known of
any criminal tendencies in our family?"

Edward turned to the window again and resumed his study of the cinder-heaps and tomato-cans.
It was a vulgar and stupid quarrel, but he had seen enough of Hal's mood to realise that he
would go on and on, so long as any one was indiscreet enough to answer him.

"You say, Mr. Cartwright, that I have violated the ordinance against speaking on the street.
May I ask what penalty this ordinance carries?"

"You will find out when the penalty is exacted of you."

Hal laughed. "From what you said just now, I gather that the penalty is expulsion from the
town! If I understand legal procedure, I should have been brought before the justice of the
peace--who happens to be another company store-clerk. Instead of that, I am sentenced by the
mayor--or is it the company superintendent? May I ask how that comes to be?"

"It is because of my consideration--"

"When did I ask consideration?"

"Consideration for your brother, I mean."

"Oh! Then your ordinance provides that the mayor--or is it the superintendent?--may show consideration
for the brother of a law-breaker, by changing his penalty to expulsion from the town. Was it
consideration for Tommie Burke that caused you to have his sister sent down the canyon?"

Cartwright clenched his hands. "I've had all I'll stand of this!"

He was again addressing Edward's back; and Edward turned and answered, "I don't blame you,
sir." Then to Hal, "I really think you've said enough!"

"I hope I've said enough," replied Hal--"to convince you that the pretence of American law
in this coal-camp is a silly farce, an insult and a humiliation to any man who respects the
institutions of his country."

"You, Mr. Warner," said the superintendent, to Edward, "have had experience in managing coal-mines.
You know what it means to deal with ignorant foreigners, who have no understanding of American
law--"

Hal burst out laughing. "So you're teaching them American law! You're teaching them by setting
at naught every law of your town and state, every constitutional guarantee--and substituting
the instructions you get by telegraph from Peter Harrigan!"

Cartwright turned and walked to the door. "Young man," said he, over his shoulder, "it will
be necessary for you to leave North Valley this morning. I only hope your brother will be able
to persuade you to leave without trouble." And the bang of the door behind him was the superintendent's
only farewell.

SECTION 17.

Edward turned upon his brother. "Now what the devil did you want to put me through a scene
like that for? So undignified! So utterly uncalled for! A quarrel with a man so far beneath you!"

Hal stood where the superintendent had left him. He was looking at his brother's angry face.
"Was that all you got out of it, Edward?"

"All that stuff about your private character! What do you care what a fellow like Cartwright
thinks about you?"

"I care nothing at all what he thinks, but I care about having him use such a slander. That's
one of their regular procedures, so Billy Keating says."

Edward answered, coldly, "Take my advice, and realise that when you deny a scandal, you only
give it circulation."

"Of course," answered Hal. "That's what makes me so angry. Think of the girl, the harm done
to her!"

"It's not up to you to worry about the girl."

"Suppose that Cartwright had slandered some woman friend of yours. Would you have felt the
same indifference?"

"He'd not have slandered any friend of mine; I choose my friends more carefully."

"Yes, of course. What that means is that you choose them among the rich. But I happen to be
more democratic in my tastes--"

"Oh, for heaven's sake!" cried Edward. "You reformers are all alike--you talk and talk and talk!"

"I can tell you the reason for that, Edward--a man like you can shut his eyes, but he can't
shut his ears!"

"Well, can't you let up on me for awhile--long enough to get out of this place? I feel as if
I were sitting on the top of a volcano, and I've no idea when it may break out again."

Hal began to laugh. "All right," he said; "I guess I haven't shown much appreciation of your
visit. I'll be more sociable now. My next business is in Pedro, so I'll go that far with you.
There's one thing more--"

"What is it?"

"The company owes me money--"

"What money?"

"Some I've earned."

It was Edward's turn to laugh. "Enough to buy you a shave and a bath?"

He took out his wallet, and pulled off several bills; and Hal, watching him, realised suddenly
a change which had taken place in his own psychology. Not merely had he acquired the class-consciousness
of the working-man, he had acquired the money-consciousness as well. He was actually concerned
about the dollars the company owed him! He had earned those dollars by back- and heart-breaking
toil, lifting lumps of coal into cars; the sum was enough to keep the whole Rafferty family
alive for a week or two. And here was Edward, with a smooth brown leather wallet full of ten-
and twenty-dollar bills, which he peeled off without counting, exactly as if money grew on
trees, or as if coal came out of the earth and walked into furnaces to the sound of a fiddle
and a flute!

Edward had of course no idea of these abnormal processes going on in his brother's mind. He
was holding out the bills. "Get yourself some decent things," he said. "I hope you don't have
to stay dirty in order to feel democratic?"

"No," answered Hal; and then, "How are we going?"

"I've a car waiting, back of the office."

"So you had everything ready!" But Edward made no answer; afraid of setting off the volcano again.

SECTION 18.

They went out by the rear door of the office, entered the car, and sped out of the village,
unseen by the crowd. And all the way down the canyon Edward pleaded with Hal to drop the controversy
and come home at once. He brought up the tragic question of Dad again; when that did not avail,
he began to threaten. Suppose Hal's money-resources were to be cut off, suppose he were to
find himself left out of his father's will--what would he do then? Hal answered, without a
smile, "I can always get a job as organiser for the United Mine-Workers."

So Edward gave up that line of attack. "If you won't come," he declared, "I'm going to stay
by you till you do!"

"All right," said Hal. He could not help smiling at this dire threat. "But if I take you about
and introduce you to my friends, you must agree that what you hear shall be confidential."

The other made a face of disgust. "What the devil would I want to talk about your friends for?"

"I don't know what might happen," said Hal. "You're going to meet Peter Harrigan and take his
side, and I can't tell what you might conceive it your duty to do."

The other exclaimed, with sudden passion, "I'll tell you right now! If you try to go back to
that coal-camp, I swear to God I'll apply to the courts and have you shut up in a sanitarium.
I don't think I'd have much trouble in persuading a judge that you're insane."

"No," said Hal, with a laugh--"not a judge in this part of the world!"

Then, after studying his brother's face for a moment, it occurred to him that it might be well
not to let such an idea rest unimpeached in Edward's mind. "Wait," said he, "till you meet
my friend Billy Keating, of the Gazette, and hear what he would do with such a story! Billy
is crazy to have me turn him loose to 'play up' my fight with Old Peter!" The conversation
went no farther--but Hal was sure that Edward would "put that in his pipe and smoke it."

They came to the MacKellar home in Pedro, and Edward waited in the automobile while Hal went
inside. The old Scotchman welcomed him warmly, and told him what news he had. Jerry Minetti
had been there that morning, and MacKellar at his request had telephoned to the office of the
union in Sheridan, and ascertained that Jack David had brought word about the strike on the
previous evening. All parties had been careful not to mention names, for "leaks" in the telephone
were notorious, but it was clear who the messenger had been. As a result of the message, Johann
Hartman, president of the local union of the miners, was now at the American Hotel in Pedro,
together with James Moylan, secretary of the district organisation--the latter having come
down from Western City on the same train as Edward.

This was all satisfactory; but MacKellar added a bit of information of desperate import--the
officers of the union declared that they could not support a strike at the present time! It
was premature, it could lead to nothing but failure and discouragement to the larger movement
they were planning.

Such a possibility Hal had himself realised at the outset. But he had witnessed the new birth
of freedom at North Valley, he had seen the hungry, toil-worn faces of men looking up to him
for support; he had been moved by it, and had come to feel that the union officials must be
moved in the same way. "They've simply got to back it!" he exclaimed. "Those men must not be
disappointed! They'll lose all hope, they'll sink into utter despair! The labour men must realise
that--I must make them!"

The old Scotchman answered that Minetti had felt the same way. He had flung caution to the
winds, and rushed over to the hotel to see Hartman and Moylan. Hal decided to follow, and went
out to the automobile.

He explained matters to his brother, whose comment was, Of course! It was what he had foretold.
The poor, mis-guided miners would go back to their work, and their would-be leader would have
to admit the folly of his course. There was a train for Western City in a couple of hours;
it would be a great favour if Hal would arrange to take it.

Hal answered shortly that he was going to the American Hotel. His brother might take him there,
if he chose. So Edward gave the order to the driver of the car. Incidentally, Edward began
asking about clothing-stores in Pedro. While Hal was in the hotel, pleading for the life of
his newly-born labour union, Edward would seek a costume in which he could "feel like a human
being."

SECTION 19.

Hal found Jerry Minetti with the two officials in their hotel-room: Jim Moylan, district secretary,
a long, towering Irish boy, black-eyed and black-haired, quick and sensitive, the sort of person
one trusted and liked at the first moment; and Johann Hartman, local president, a grey-haired
miner of German birth, reserved and slow-spoken, evidently a man of much strength, both physical
and moral. He had need of it, any one could realise, having charge of a union headquarters
in the heart of this "Empire of Raymond"!

Hal first told of the kidnapping of the committee. This did not surprise the officials, he
found; it was the thing the companies regularly did when there was threat of rebellion in the
camps. That was why efforts to organise openly were so utterly hopeless. There was no chance
for anything but a secret propaganda, maintained until every camp had the nucleus of an organisation.

"So you can't back this strike!" exclaimed Hal.

Not possibly, was Moylan's reply. It would be lost as soon as it was begun. There was no slightest
hope of success until a lot of organisation work had been done.

"But meantime," argued Hal, "the union at North Valley will go to pieces!"

"Perhaps," was the reply. "We'll only have to start another. That's what the labour movement
is like."

Jim Moylan was young, and saw Hal's mood. "Don't misunderstand us!" he cried. "It's heartbreaking--but
it's not in our power to help. We are charged with building up the union, and we know that
if we supported everything that looked like a strike, we'd be bankrupt the first year. You
can't imagine how often this same thing happens--hardly a month we're not called on to handle
such a situation."

"I can see what you mean," said Hal. "But I thought that in this case, right after the disaster,
with the men so stirred--"

The young Irishman smiled, rather sadly. "You're new at this game," he said. "If a mine-disaster
was enough to win a strike, God knows our job would be easy. In Barela, just down the canyon
from you, they've had three big explosions--they've killed over five hundred men in the past year!"

Hal began to see how, in his inexperience, he had lost his sense of proportion.

He looked at the two labour leaders, and recalled the picture of such a person which he had
brought with him to North Valley--a hot headed and fiery agitator, luring honest workingmen
from their jobs. But here was the situation exactly reversed! Here was he in a blaze of excitement--and
two labour leaders turning the fire-hose on him! They sat quiet and business-like, pronouncing
a doom upon the slaves of North Valley. Back to their black dungeons with them!

"What can we tell the men?" he asked, making an effort to repress his chagrin.

"We can only tell them what I'm telling you--that we're helpless, till we've got the whole
district organised. Meantime, they have to stand the gaff; they must do what they can to keep
an organisation."

"But all the active men will be fired!"

"No, not quite all--they seldom get them all."

Here the stolid old German put in. In the last year the company had turned out more than six
thousand men because of union activity or suspicion of it.

"Six thousand!" echoed Hal. "You mean from this one district?"

"That's what I mean."

"But there aren't more than twelve or fifteen thousand men in the district!"

"I know that."

"Then how can you ever keep an organisation?"

The other answered, quietly, "They treat the new men the same as they treated the old."

Hal thought suddenly of John Edstrom's ants! Here they were--building their bridge, building
it again and again, as often as floods might destroy it! They had not the swift impatience
of a youth of the leisure-class, accustomed to having his own way, accustomed to thinking of
freedom and decency and justice as necessities of life. Much as Hal learned from the conversation
of these men, he learned more from their silences--the quiet, matter-of-fact way they took
things which had driven him beside himself with indignation. He began to realise what it would
mean to stand by his pledge to those poor devils in North Valley. He would need more than one
blaze of excitement; he would need brains and patience and discipline, he would need years
of study and hard work!

SECTION 20.

Hal found himself forced to accept the decision of the labour-leaders. They had had experience,
they could judge the situation. The miners would have to go back to work, and Cartwright and
Alec Stone and Jeff Cotton would drive them as before! All that the rebels could do was to
try to keep a secret organisation in the camp.

Jerry Minetti mentioned Jack David. He had gone back this morning, without having seen the
labour-leaders. So he might escape suspicion, and keep his job, and help the union work.

"How about you?" asked Hal. "I suppose you've cooked your goose."

Jerry had never heard this phrase, but he got its meaning. "Sure thing!" said he. "Cooked him
plenty!"

"Didn't you see the 'dicks' down stairs in the lobby?" inquired Hartman.

"I haven't learned to recognise them yet."

"Well, you will, if you stay at this business. There hasn't been a minute since our office
was opened that we haven't had half a dozen on the other side of the street. Every man that
comes to see us is followed back to his camp and fired that same day. They've broken into my
desk at night and stolen my letters and papers; they've threatened us with death a hundred times."

"I don't see how you make any headway at all!"

"They can never stop us. They thought when they broke into my desk, they'd get a list of our
organisers. But you see, I carry the lists in my head!"

"No small task, either," put in Moylan. "Would you like to know how many organisers we have
at work? Ninety-seven. And they haven't caught a single one of them!"

Hal heard him, amazed. Here was a new aspect of the labour movement! This quiet, resolute old
"Dutchy," whom you might have taken for a delicatessen-proprietor; this merry-eyed Irish boy,
whom you would have expected to be escorting a lady to a firemen's ball----they were captains
of an army of sappers who were undermining the towers of Peter Harrigan's fortress of greed!

Hartman suggested that Jerry might take a chance at this sort of work. He would surely be fired
from North Valley, so he might as well send word to his family to come to Pedro. In this way
he might save himself to work as an organiser; because it was the custom of these company "spotters"
to follow a man back to his camp and there identify him. If Jerry took a train for Western
City, they would be thrown off the track, and he might get into some new camp and do organising
among the Italians. Jerry accepted this proposition with alacrity; it would put off the evil
day when Rosa and her little ones would be left to the mercy of chance.

They were still talking when the telephone rang. It was Hartman's secretary in Sheridan, reporting
that he had just heard from the kidnapped committee. The entire party, eight men and Mary Burke,
had been taken to Horton, a station not far up the line, and put on the train with many dire
threats. But they had left the train at the next stop, and declared their intention of coming
to Pedro. They were due at the hotel very soon.

Hal desired to be present at this meeting, and went downstairs to tell his brother. There was
another dispute, of course. Edward reminded Hal that the scenery of Pedro had a tendency to
monotony; to which Hal could only answer by offering to introduce his brother to his friends.
They were men who could teach Edward much, if he would consent to learn. He might attend the
session with the committee--eight men and a woman who had ventured an act of heroism and been
made the victims of a crime. Nor were they bores, as Edward might be thinking! There was blue-eyed
Tim Rafferty, for example, a silent, smutty-faced gnome who had broken out of his black cavern
and spread unexpected golden wings of oratory; and Mary Burke, of whom Edward might read in
that afternoon's edition of the Western City Gazette--a "Joan of Arc of the coal-camps," or
something equally picturesque. But Edward's mood was not to be enlivened. He had a vision of
his brother's appearance in the paper as the companion of this Hibernian Joan!

Hal went off with Jerry Minetti to what his brother described as a "hash-house," while Edward
proceeded in solitary state to the dining-room of the American Hotel. But he was not left in
solitary state; pretty soon a sharp-faced young man was ushered to a seat beside him, and started
up a conversation. He was a "drummer," he said; his "line" was hardware, what was Edward's?
Edward answered coldly that he had no "line," but the young man was not rebuffed--apparently
his "line" had hardened his sensibilities. Perhaps Edward was interested in coal-mines? Had
he been visiting the camps? He questioned so persistently, and came back so often to the subject,
that at last it dawned over Edward what this meant--he was receiving the attention of a "spotter!"
Strange to say, the circumstance caused Edward more irritation against Peter Harrigan's regime
than all his brother's eloquence about oppression at North Valley.

SECTION 21.

Soon after dinner the kidnapped committee arrived, bedraggled in body and weary in soul. They
inquired for Johann Hartman, and were sent up to the room, where there followed a painful scene.

"You been tryin' to get us out!" cried Tim Rafferty. "Ever since I can remember you been at
my old man to help you--an' here, when we do what you ask, you throw us down!"

"We never asked you to go on strike," said Moylan.

"No, that's true. You only asked us to pay dues, so you fellows could have fat salaries."

"Our salaries aren't very fat," replied the young leader, patiently. "You'd find that out if
you investigated."

"Well, whatever they are, they go on, while ours stop. We're on the streets, we're done for.
Look at us--and most of us has got families, too! I got an old mother an' a lot of brothers
and sisters, an' my old man done up an' can't work. What do you think's to become of us?"

"We'll help you out a little, Rafferty--"

"To hell with you!" cried Tim. "I don't want your help! When I need charity, I'll go to the
county. They're another bunch of grafters, but they don't pretend to be friends to the workin'
man."

Here was the thing Tom Olson had told Hal at the outset--the workingmen bedevilled, not knowing
whom to trust, suspecting the very people who most desired to help them. "Tim," he put in,
"there's no use talking like that. We have to learn patience--"

And the boy turned upon Hal. "What do you know about it? It's all a joke to you. You can go
off and forget it when you get ready. You've got money, they tell me!"

Hal felt no resentment at this; it was what he heard from his own conscience. "It isn't so
easy for me as you think, Tim. There are other ways of suffering besides not having money--"

"Much sufferin' you'll do--with your rich folks!" sneered Tim.

There was a murmur of protest from others of the committee.

"Good God, Rafferty!" broke in Moylan. "We can't help it, man--we're just as helpless as you!"

"You say you're helpless--but you don't even try!"

"Try? Do you want us to back a strike that we know hasn't a chance? You might as well ask us
to lie down and let a load of coal run over us. We can't win, man! I tell you we can't win!
We'd only be throwing away our organisation!"

Moylan became suddenly impassioned. He had seen a dozen sporadic strikes in this district,
and many a dozen young strikers, homeless, desolate, embittered, turning their disappointment
on him. "We might support you with our funds, you say--we might go on doing it, even while
the company ran the mine with scabs. But where would that land us, Rafferty? I seen many a
union on the rocks--and I ain't so old either! If we had a bank, we'd support all the miners
of the country, they'd never need to work again till they got their rights. But this money
we spend is the money that other miners are earnin'--right now, down in the pits, Rafferty,
the same as you and your old man. They give us this money, and they say, 'Use it to build up
the union. Use it to help the men that aren't organised--take them in, so they won't beat down
our wages and scab on us. But don't waste it, for God's sake; we have to work hard to make
it, and if we don't see results, you'll get no more out of us.' Don't you see how that is,
man? And how it weighs on us, worse even then the fear that maybe we'll lose our poor salaries--though
you might refuse to believe anything so good of us? You don't need to talk to me like I was
Peter Harrigan's son. I was a spragger when I was ten years old, and I ain't been out of the
pits so long that I've forgot the feeling. I assure you, the thing that keeps me awake at night
ain't the fear of not gettin' a living, for I give myself a bit of education, working nights,
and I know I could always turn out and earn what I need; but it's wondering whether I'm spending
the miners' money the best way, whether maybe I mightn't save them a little misery if I hadn't
'a' done this or had 'a' done that. When I come down on that sleeper last night, here's what
I was thinking, Tim Rafferty--all the time I listened to the train bumping--'Now I got to see
some more of the suffering, I got to let some good men turn against us, because they can't
see why we should get salaries while they get the sack. How am I going to show them that I'm
working for them--working as hard as I know how--and that I'm not to blame for their trouble?'"

Here Wauchope broke in. "There's no use talking any more. I see we're up against it. We'll
not trouble you, Moylan."

"You trouble me," cried Moylan, "unless you stand by the movement!"

The other laughed bitterly. "You'll never know what I do. It's the road for me--and you know it!"

"Well, wherever you go, it'll be the same; either you'll be fighting for the union, or you'll
be a weight that we have to carry."

The young leader turned from one to another of the committee, pleading with them not to be
embittered by this failure, but to turn it to their profit, going on with the work of building
up the solidarity of the miners. Every man had to make his sacrifices, to pay his part of the
price. The thing of importance was that every man who was discharged should be a spark of unionism,
carrying the flame of revolt to a new part of the country. Let each one do his part, and there
would soon be no place to which the masters could send for "scabs."

SECTION 22.

There was one member of this committee whom Hal watched with especial anxiety----Mary Burke.
She had not yet said a word; while the others argued and protested, she sat with her lips set
and her hands clenched. Hal knew what rage this failure must bring to her. She had risen and
struggled and hoped, and the result was what she had always said it would be--nothing! Now
he saw her, with eyes large and dark with fatigue, fixed on this fiery young labour-leader.
He knew that a war must be going on within her. Would she drop out entirely now? It was the
test of her character--as it was the test of the characters of all of them.

"If only we're strong enough and brave enough," Jim Moylan was saying, "we can use our defeats
to educate our people and bring them together. Right now, if we can make the men at North Valley
see what we're doing, they won't go back beaten, they won't be bitter against the union, they'll
only go back to wait. And ain't that a way to beat the bosses--to hold our jobs, and keep the
union alive, till we've got into all the camps, and can strike and win?"

There was a pause; then Mary spoke. "How're you meanin' to tell the men?" Her voice was without
emotion, but nevertheless, Hal's heart leaped. Whether Mary had any hope or not, she was going
to stay in line with the rest of the ants!

Johann Hartman explained his idea. He would have circulars printed in several languages and
distributed secretly in the camp, ordering the men back to work. But Jerry met this suggestion
with a prompt no. The people would not believe the circulars, they would suspect the bosses
of having them printed. Hadn't the bosses done worse than that, "framing up" a letter from
Joe Smith to balk the check-weighman movement? The only thing that would help would be for
some of the committee to get into the camp and see the men face to face.

"And it got to be quick!" Jerry insisted. "They get notice to work in morning, and them that
don't be fired. They be the best men, too--men we want to save."

Other members of the committee spoke up, agreeing with this. Said Rusick, the Slav, slow-witted
and slow-spoken, "Them fellers get mighty damn sore if they lose their job and don't got no
strike." And Zammakis, the Greek, quick and nervous, "We say strike; we got to say no strike."

What could they do? There was, in the first place, the difficulty of getting away from the
hotel, which was being watched by the "spotters." Hartman suggested that if they went out all
together and scattered, the detectives could not follow all of them. Those who escaped might
get into North Valley by hiding in the "empties" which went up to the mine.

But Moylan pointed out that the company would be anticipating this; and Rusick, who had once
been a hobo, put in: "They sure search them cars. They give us plenty hell, too, when they
catch us."

Yes, it would be a dangerous mission. Mary spoke again. "Maybe a lady could do it better."

"They'd beat a lady," said Minetti.

"I know, but maybe a lady might fool them. There's some widows that came to Pedro for the funerals,
and they're wearin' veils that hide their faces. I might pretend to be one of them and get
into the camp."

The men looked at one another. There was an idea! The scowl which had stayed upon the face
of Tim Rafferty ever since his quarrel with Moylan, gave place suddenly to a broad grin.

"I seen Mrs. Zamboni on the street," said he. "She had on black veils enough to hide the lot
of us."

And here Hal spoke, for the first time since Tim Rafferty had silenced him. "Does anybody know
where to find Mrs. Zamboni?"

"She stay with my friend, Mrs. Swajka," said Rusick.

"Well," said Hal, "there's something you people don't know about this situation. After they
had fired you, I made another speech to the men, and made them swear they'd stay on strike.
So now I've got to go back and eat my words. If we're relying on veils and things, a man can
be fixed up as well as a woman."

They were staring at him. "They'll beat you to death if they catch you!" said Wauchope.

"No," said Hal, "I don't think so. Anyhow, it's up to me"--he glanced at Tim Rafferty--"because
I'm the only one who doesn't have to suffer for the failure of our strike."

There was a pause.

"I'm sorry I said that!" cried Tim, impulsively.

"That's all right, old man," replied Hal. "What you said is true, and I'd like to do something
to ease my conscience." He rose to his feet, laughing. "I'll make a peach of a widow!" he said.
"I'm going up and have a tea-party with my friend Jeff Cotton!"

SECTION 23.

Hal proposed going to find Mrs. Zamboni at the place where she was staying; but Moylan interposed,
objecting that the detectives would surely follow him. Even though they should all go out of
the hotel at once, the one person the detective would surely stick to was the arch-rebel and
trouble-maker, Joe Smith. Finally they decided to bring Mrs. Zamboni to the room. Let her come
with Mrs. Swajka or some other woman who spoke English, and go to the desk and ask for Mary
Burke, explaining that Mary had borrowed money from her, and that she had to have it to pay
the undertaker for the burial of her man. The hotel-clerk might not know who Mary Burke was;
but the watchful "spotters" would gather about and listen, and if it was mentioned that Mary
was from North Valley, some one would connect her with the kidnapped committee.

This was made clear to Rusick, who hurried off, and in the course of half an hour returned
with the announcement that the women were on the way. A few minutes later came a tap on the
door, and there stood the black-garbed old widow with her friend. She came in; and then came
looks of dismay and horrified exclamations. Rusick was requesting her to give up her weeds
to Joe Smith!

"She say she don't got nothing else," explained the Slav.

"Tell her I give her plenty money buy more," said Hal.

"Ai! Jesu!" cried Mrs. Zamboni, pouring out a sputtering torrent.

"She say she don't got nothing to put on. She say it ain't good to go no clothes!"

"Hasn't she got on a petticoat?"

"She say petticoat got holes!"

There was a burst of laughter from the company, and the old woman turned scarlet from her forehead
to her ample throat. "Tell her she wrap up in blankets," said Hal. "Mary Burke buy her new things."

It proved surprisingly difficult to separate Mrs. Zamboni from her widow's weeds, which she
had purchased with so great an expenditure of time and tears. Never had a respectable lady
who had borne sixteen children received such a proposition; to sell the insignia of her grief--and
here in a hotel room, crowded with a dozen men! Nor was the task made easier by the unseemly
merriment of the men. "Ai! Jesu!" cried Mrs. Zamboni again.

"Tell her it's very, very important," said Hal. "Tell her I must have them." And then, seeing
that Rusick was making poor headway, he joined in, in the compromise-English one learns in
the camps. "Got to have! Sure thing! Got to hide! Quick! Get away from boss! See? Get killed
if no go!"

So at last the frightened old woman gave way. "She say all turn backs," said Rusick. And everybody
turned, laughing in hilarious whispers, while, with Mary Burke and Mrs. Swajka for a shield,
Mrs. Zamboni got out of her waist and skirt, putting a blanket round her red shoulders for
modesty's sake. When Hal put the garments on, there was a foot to spare all round; but after
they had stuffed two bed pillows down in the front of him, and drawn them tight at the waist-line,
the disguise was judged more satisfactory. He put on the old lady's ample if ragged shoes,
and Mary Burke set the widow's bonnet on his head and adjusted the many veils; after that Mrs.
Zamboni's own brood of children would not have suspected the disguise.

It was a merry party for a few minutes; worn and hopeless as Mary had seemed, she was possessed
now by the spirit of fun. But then quickly the laughter died. The time for action had come.
Mary Burke said that she would stay with what was left of Mrs. Zamboni, to answer the door
in case any of the hotel people or the detectives should come. Hal asked Jim Moylan to see
Edward, and say that Hal was writing a manifesto to the North Valley workers, and would not
be ready to leave until the midnight train.

These things agreed upon, Hal shook hands all round, and the eleven men left the room at once,
going down stairs and through the lobby, scattering in every direction on the streets. Mrs.
Swajka and the pseudo-Mrs. Zamboni followed a minute later--and, as they anticipated, found
the lobby swept clear of detectives.

SECTION 24.

Bidding Mrs. Swajka farewell, Hal set out for the railroad station. But before he had gone
a block from the hotel, he ran into his brother, coming straight towards him.

Edward's face wore a bored look; his very manner of carrying the magazine under his arm said
that he had selected it in a last hopeless effort against the monotony of Pedro. Such a trick
of fate, to take a man of important affairs, and immure him at the mercy of a maniac in a God-forsaken
coal-town! What did people do in such a hole? Pay a nickel to look at moving pictures of cow-boys
and counterfeiters?

Edward's aspect was too much for Hal's sense of humour. Besides, he had a good excuse; was
it not proper to make a test of his disguise, before facing the real danger in North Valley?

He placed himself in the path of his brother's progress, and in Mrs. Zamboni's high, complaining
tones, began, "Mister!"

Edward stared at the interrupting black figure. "Mister, you Joe Smith's brother, hey?"

The question had to be repeated before Edward gave his grudging answer. He was not proud of
the relationship.

"Mister," continued the whining voice, "my old man got blow up in mine. I get five pieces from
my man what I got to bury yesterday in grave-yard. I got to pay thirty dollar for bury them
pieces and I don't got no more money left. I don't got no money from them company fellers.
They come lawyer feller and he say maybe I get money for bury my man, if I don't jay too much.
But, Mister, I got eleven children I got to feed, and I don't got no more man, and I don't
find no new man for old woman like me. When I go home I hear them children crying and I don't
got no food, and them company-stores don't give me no food. I think maybe you Joe Smith's brother
you good man, maybe you sorry for poor widow-woman, you maybe give me some money, Mister, so
I buy some food for them children."

"All right," said Edward. He pulled out his wallet and extracted a bill, which happened to
be for ten dollars. His manner seemed to say, "For heaven's sake, here!"

Mrs. Zamboni clutched the bill with greedy fingers, but was not appeased. "You got plenty money,
Mister! You rich man, hey! You maybe give me all them moneys, so I got plenty feed them children?
You don't know them company-stores, Mister, them prices is way up high like mountains; them
children is hungry, they cry all day and night, and one piece money don't last so long. You
give me some more piece moneys, Mister----hey?"

"I'll give you one more," said Edward. "I need some for myself." He pulled off another bill.

"What you need so much, Mister? You don't got so many children, hey? And you got plenty more
money home, maybe!"

"That's all I can give you," said the man. He took a step to one side, to get round the obstruction
in his path.

But the obstruction took a step also--and with surprising agility. "Mister, I thank you for
them moneys. I tell them children I get moneys from good man. I like you, Mister Smith, you
give money for poor widow-woman--you nice man."

And the dreadful creature actually stuck out one of her paws, as if expecting to pat Edward
on the cheek, or to chuck him under the chin. He recoiled, as from a contagion; but she followed
him, determined to do something to him, he could not be sure what. He had heard that these
foreigners had strange customs!

"It's all right! It's nothing!" he insisted, and fell back--at the same time glancing nervously
about, to see if there were spectators of this scene.

"Nice man, Mister! Nice man!" cried the old woman, with increasing cordiality. "Maybe some
day I find man like you, Mr. Edward Smith--so I don't stay widow-woman no more. You think maybe
you like to marry nice Slavish woman, got plenty nice children?"

Edward, perceiving that the matter was getting desperate, sprang to one side. It was a spring
which should have carried him to safety; but to his dismay the Slavish widow sprang also--her
claws caught him under the arm-pit, and fastening in his ribs, gave him a ferocious pinch.
After which the owner of the claws went down the street, not looking back, but making strange
gobbling noises, which might have been the weeping of a bereaved widow in Slavish, or might
have been almost anything else.

SECTION 25.

The train up to North Valley left very soon, and Hal figured that there would be just time
to accomplish his errand and catch the last train back. He took his seat in the car without
attracting attention, and sat in his place until they were approaching their destination, the
last stop up the canyon. There were several of the miners' women in the car, and Hal picked
out one who belonged to Mrs. Zamboni's nationality, and moved over beside her. She made place,
with some remark; but Hal merely sobbed softly, and the woman felt for his hand to comfort
him. As his hands were clasped together under the veils, she patted him reassuringly on the knee.

At the boundary of the stockaded village the train stopped, and Bud Adams came through the
car, scrutinising every passenger. Seeing this, Hal began to sob again, and murmured something
indistinct to his companion--which caused her to lean towards him, speaking volubly in her
native language. "Bud" passed by.

When Hal came to leave the train, he took his companion's arm; he sobbed some more, and she
talked some more, and so they went down the platform, under the very eyes of Pete Hanun, the
"breaker of teeth." Another woman joined them, and they walked down the street, the women conversing
in Slavish, apparently without a suspicion of Hal.

He had worked out his plan of action. He would not try to talk with the men secretly--it would
take too long, and he might be betrayed before he had talked with a sufficient number. One
bold stroke was the thing. In half an hour it would be supper-time, and the feeders would gather
in Reminitsky's dining-room. He would give his message there!

Hal's two companions were puzzled that he passed the Zamboni cabin, where presumably the Zamboni
brood were being cared for by neighbours. But he let them make what they could of this, and
went on to the Minetti home. But i was not without some pluck, and in my case, as in that of many another
present, my courage in facing the brave calamity was aided by my fear of another still a to be
dreaded. Because it was a trap, i was certainly caught; there was the
doubt of that.
"Big Jack's" part in the recent disturbance had apparently not been suspected; he and his wife,
with Rovetta, Wresmak, and Klowoski, would remain as a nucleus through which the union could
work upon the men.

The supper-hour was at hand, and the pseudo-Mrs. Zamboni emerged and toddled down the street.
As she passed into the dining-room of the boarding-house, men looked at her, but no one spoke.
It was the stage of the meal where everybody was grabbing and devouring, in the effort to get
the best of his grabbing and devouring neighbours. The black-clad figure went to the far end
of the room; there was a vacant chair, and the figure pulled it back from the table and climbed
upon it. Then a shout rang through the room: "Boys! Boys!"

The feeders looked up, and saw the widow's weeds thrown back, and their leader, Joe Smith,
gazing out at them. "Boys! I've come with a message from the union!"

