Since I had the pleasure of seeing you, I have received from Lord Byron a letter in which he
expresses himself as having left to Mr. Hobhouse and myself the sole and whole discretion and
duty of settling with the publisher of the MSS. which are now in your hands the consideration
to be given for them. Observing that you have advertised "Mazeppa," I feel that it is my duty
to request you will name an early day--of course previous to your publishing that or any other
part of the MSS.--when we may meet and receive your offer of such terms as you may deem proper
for the purchase of the copyright of them. The very liberal footing on which Lord Byron's intercourse
with you in your character of publisher of his Lordship's works has hitherto been placed, leaves
no doubt in my mind that our interview need be but very short, and that the terms you will
propose will be met by our assent.

The parties met, and Mr. Murray agreed to give £525 for "Mazeppa," and £1,575 for the first
and second cantos of "Don Juan," with "The Ode to Venice" thrown in.

In accordance with Lord Byron's directions to his publisher to "keep the anonymous," Cantos
I. and II. of "Don Juan" appeared in London, in quarto, in July 1819, without the name of either
author, publisher, or bookseller. The book was immediately pounced upon by the critics; but
it is unnecessary to quote their reviews, as they are impartially given in the latest accredited
editions of Lord Byron's poems. A few criticisms from Mr. Murray's private correspondence may
be given.

Mr. Gifford to John Murray.

RYDE, July 1, 1819.

"Lord B.'s letter is shockingly amusing. [Footnote: Probably that written in May; printed in
the "Life."] He must be mad; but then there's method in his madness. I dread, however, the
end. He is, or rather might be, the most extraordinary character of his age. I have lived to
see three great men--men to whom none come near in their respective provinces--Pitt, Nelson,
Wellington. Morality and religion would have placed our friend among them as the fourth boast
of the time; even a decent respect for the good opinion of mankind might have done much now;
but all is tending to displace him."

Mr. Murray, who was still in communication with Mr. Blackwood, found that he refused to sell
"Don Juan" because it contained personalities which he regarded as even more objectionable
than those of which Murray had complained in the Magazine.

When the copyright of "Don Juan" was infringed by other publishers, it became necessary to
take steps to protect it at law, and Mr. Sharon Turner was consulted on the subject. An injunction
was applied for in Chancery, and the course of the negotiation will be best ascertained from
the following letters:

Mr. Sharon Turner to John Murray.

October 21, 1819.

DEAR MURRAY,

... on "Don Juan" I have much apprehension. I had from the beginning, and therefore advised
the separate assignment. The counsel who is settling the bill also doubts if the Chancellor
will sustain the injunction. I think, when Mr. Bell comes to town, it will be best to have
a consultation with him on the subject. The counsel, Mr. Loraine, shall state to him his view
on the subject, and you shall hear what Mr. Bell feels upon it. Shall I appoint the consultation?
The evil, if not stopped, will be great. It will circulate in a cheap form very extensively,
injuring society wherever it spreads. Yet one consideration strikes me. You could wish Lord
Byron to write less objectionably. You may also wish him to return you part of the £1,625.
If the Chancellor should dissolve the injunction on this ground, that will show Lord B. that
he must expect no more copyright money for such things, and that they are too bad for law to
uphold. Will not this affect his mind and purify his pen? It is true that to get this good
result you must encounter the risk and expense of the injunction and of the argument upon it.
Will you do this? If I laid the case separately before three of our ablest counsel, and they
concurred in as many opinions that it could not be supported, would this equally affect his
Lordship's mind, and also induce him to return you an adequate proportion of the purchase money?
Perhaps nothing but the Court treating him as it treated Southey [Footnote: In the case of
"Wat Tyler," see Murray's letter to Byron in preceding chapter, April 12, 1817.] may sufficiently
impress Lord B. After the consultation with Bell you will better judge. Shall I get it appointed
as soon as he comes to town?

Ever yours faithfully,

SHARON TURNER.

Mr. Bell gave his opinion that the Court would not afford protection to the book. He admitted,
however, that he had not had time to study it.

The next letter relates to the opinion of Mr. Shadwell, afterwards Vice-Chancellor:

Mr. Sharon Turner to John Murray.

November 12, 1819.

Dear Murray,

I saw Mr. Shadwell to-day on "Don Juan." He has gone through the book with more attention than
Mr. Bell had time to do. He desires me to say that he does not think the Chancellor would refuse
an injunction, or would overturn it if obtained....

Yours most faithfully,

SHARON TURNER.

In the event the injunction to restrain the publication of "Don Juan" by piratical publishers
was granted.

Towards the end of 1819 Byron thought of returning to England. If she gets over this, and I
get over my Tertian ague, I will perhaps look in at Albemarle Street en passant to Bolivar."

When Mr. Hobhouse, then living at Ramsbury, heard of Byron's intention to go to South America,
he wrote to Mr. Murray as follows:

" ... To be sure it is impossible that Lord B. should seriously contemplate, or, if he does,
he must not expect us to encourage, this mad scheme. I do not know what in the world to say,
but presume some one has been talking nonsense to him. Let Jim Perry go to Venezuela if he
will--he may edit his 'Independent Gazette' amongst the Independents themselves, and reproduce
his stale puns and politics without let or hindrance. But our poet is too good for a planter--too
good to sit down before a fire made of mare's legs, to a dinner of beef without salt and bread.
It is the wildest of all his meditations--pray tell him. The plague and Yellow Jack, and famine
and free quarter, besides a thousand other ills, will stare him in the face. No tooth-brushes,
no corn-rubbers, no Quarterly Reviews. In short, plenty of all he abominates and nothing of
all he loves. I shall write, but you can tell facts, which will be better than my arguments."

Byron's half-formed intention was soon abandoned, and the Countess Guiccioli's serious illness
recalled him to Ravenna, where he remained for the next year and a half.

Hobhouse's next letter to Murray (January 1820), in which he reported "Bad news from Ravenna--a
great pity indeed," is dated Newgate, where he had been lodged in consequence of his pamphlet
entitled "A Trifling Mistake in Thomas Lord Erskine's Recent Pamphlet," containing several
very strong reflections on the House of Commons as then constituted.

During his imprisonment, Mr. Hobhouse was visited by Mr. Murray and Ugo Foscolo, as well as
by many of his political friends.

Lady Caroline Lamb also wrote to Mr. Murray from Brockett Hall, asking for information about
Byron and Hobhouse.

Lady Caroline Lamb to John Murray.

You have never written to tell me about him. Now, did you know the pain and agony this has
given me, you had not been so remiss. If you could come here on Wednesday for one night, I
have a few people and a supper. You could come by the Mail in two hours, much swifter than
even in your swift carriage; and I have one million of things to say and ask also. Do tell
me how that dear Radical Hob is, and pray remember me to him. I really hope you will be here
at dinner or supper on Wednesday. Your bedroom shall be ready, and you can be back in Town
before most people are up, though I rise here at seven.

Yours quite disturbed my mind, for want of your telling me how he [Byron] looks, what he says,
if he is grown fat, if he is no uglier than he used to be, if he is good-humoured or cross-grained,
putting his brows down--if his hair curls or is straight as somebody said, if he has seen Hobhouse,
if he is going to stay long, if you went to Dover as you intended, and a great deal more, which,
if you had the smallest tact or aught else, you would have written long ago; for as to me,
I shall certainly not see him, neither do I care he should know that I ever asked after him.
It is from mere curiosity I should like to hear all you can tell me about him. Pray come here
immediately.

Yours,

C.L.

Notwithstanding the remarkable sale of "Don Juan," Murray hesitated about publishing any more
of the cantos. After the fifth canto was published, Lord Byron informed Murray that it was
"hardly the beginning of the work," that he intended to take Don Juan through the tour of Europe,
put him through the Divorce Court, and make him finish as Anacharsis Clootz in the French Revolution.
Besides being influenced by his own feelings, it is possible that the following letter of Mr.
Croker may have induced Mr. Murray to have nothing further to do with the work:

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

MUNSTER HOUSE, March 26, 1820.

A rainy Sunday.

DEAR MURRAY,

I have to thank you for letting me see your two new cantos [the 3rd and 4th], which I return.
What sublimity! what levity! what boldness! what tenderness! what majesty! what trifling! what
variety! what tediousness!--for tedious to a strange degree, it must be confessed that whole
passages are, particularly the earlier stanzas of the fourth canto. I know no man of such general
powers of intellect as Brougham, yet I think him insufferably tedious; and I fancy the reason
to be that he has such facility of expression that he is never recalled to a selection of his
thoughts. A more costive orator would be obliged to choose, and a man of his talents could
not fail to choose the best; but the power of uttering all and everything which passes across
his mind, tempts him to say all. He goes on without thought--I should rather say, without pause.
His speeches are poor from their richness, and dull from their infinite variety. An impediment
in his speech would make him a perfect Demosthenes. Something of the same kind, and with something
of the same effect, is Lord Byron's wonderful fertility of thought and facility of expression;
and the Protean style of "Don Juan," instead of checking (as the fetters of rhythm generally
do) his natural activity, not only gives him wider limits to range in, but even generates a
more roving disposition. I dare swear, if the truth were known, that his digressions and repetitions
generate one another, and that the happy jingle of some of his comical rhymes has led him on
to episodes of which he never originally thought; and thus it is that, with the most extraordinary
merit, merit of all kinds, these two cantos have been to me, in several points, tedious and
even obscure.

As to the PRINCIPLES, all the world, and you, Mr. Murray, first of all, have done this poem
great injustice. There are levities here and there, more than good taste approves, but nothing
to make such a terrible rout about--nothing so bad as "Tom Jones," nor within a hundred degrees
of "Count Fathom."

The writer goes on to remark that the personalities in the poem are more to be deprecated than
"its imputed looseness of principle":

I mean some expressions of political and personal feelings which, I believe, he, in fact, never
felt, and threw in wantonly and de gaieté de coeur, and which he would have omitted, advisedly
and de bonté de coeur, if he had not been goaded by indiscreet, contradictory, and urgent criticisms,
which, in some cases, were dark enough to be called calumnies. But these are blowing over,
if not blown over; and I cannot but think that if Mr. Gifford, or some friend in whose taste
and disinterestedness Lord Byron could rely, were to point out to him the cruelty to individuals,
the injury to the national character, the offence to public taste, and the injury to his own
reputation, of such passages as those about Southey and Waterloo and the British Government
and the head of that Government, I cannot but hope and believe that these blemishes in the
first cantos would be wiped away in the next edition; and that some that occur in the two cantos
(which you sent me) would never see the light. What interest can Lord Byron have in being the
poet of a party in politics?... In politics, he cannot be what he appears, or rather what Messrs.
Hobhouse and Leigh Hunt wish to make him appear. A man of his birth, a man of his taste, a
man of his talents, a man of his habits, can have nothing in common with such miserable creatures
as we now call Radicals, of whom I know not that I can better express the illiterate and blind
ignorance and vulgarity than by saying that the best informed of them have probably never heard
of Lord Byron. No, no, Lord Byron may be indulgent to these jackal followers of his; he may
connive at their use of his name--nay, it is not to be denied that he has given them too, too
much countenance--but he never can, I should think, now that he sees not only the road but
the rate they are going, continue to take a part so contrary to all his own interests and feelings,
and to the feelings and interests of all the respectable part of his country.... But what is
to be the end of all this rigmarole of mine? To conclude, this--to advise you, for your own
sake as a tradesman, for Lord Byron's sake as a poet, for the sake of good literature and good
principles, which ought to be united, to take such measures as you may be able to venture upon
to get Lord Byron to revise these two cantos, and not to make another step in the odious path
which Hobhouse beckons him to pursue....

Yours ever,

J.W. CROKER.

But Byron would alter nothing more in his "Don Juan." He accepted the corrections of Gifford
in his "Tragedies," but "Don Juan" was never submitted to him. Hobhouse was occasionally applied
to, because he knew Lord Byron's handwriting; but even his suggestions of alterations or corrections
of "Don Juan" were in most cases declined, and moreover about this time a slight coolness had
sprung up between him and Byron. When Hobhouse was standing for Westminster with Sir Francis
Burdett, Lord Byron sent a song about him in a letter to Mr. Murray. It ran to the tune of
"My Boy Tammy? O!"

"Who are now the People's men?
  My boy Hobby O!
Yourself and Burdett, Gentlemen,
  And Blackguard Hunt and Cobby O!

"When to the mob you make a speech,
  My boy Hobby O!
How do you keep without their reach
  The watch without your fobby O?"
[Footnote: The rest of the song is printed in Murray's Magazine, No. 3.]

Lord Byron asked Murray to show the song not only to some of his friends--who got it by heart
and had it printed in the newspapers--but also to Hobhouse himself. "I know," said his Lordship,
"that he will never forgive me, but I really have no patience with him for letting himself
be put in quod by such a set of ragamuffins." Mr. Hobhouse, however, was angry with Byron for
his lampoon and with Murray for showing it to his friends. He accordingly wrote the following
letter, which contains some interesting particulars of the Whig Club at Cambridge in Byron's
University days:

Mr. Hobhouse to John Murray.

2, HANOVER SQUARE, November, 1820.

I have received your letter, and return to you Lord Byron's. I shall tell you very frankly,
because I think it much better to speak a little of a man to his face than to say a great deal
about him behind his back, that I think you have not treated me as I deserved, nor as might
have been expected from that friendly intercourse which has subsisted between us for so many
years. Had Lord Byron transmitted to me a lampoon on you, I should, if I know myself at all,
either have put it into the fire without delivery, or should have sent it at once to you. I
should not have given it a circulation for the gratification of all the small wits at the great
and little houses, where no treat is so agreeable as to find a man laughing at his friend.
In this case, the whole coterie of the very shabbiest party that ever disgraced and divided
a nation--I mean the Whigs--are, I know, chuckling over that silly charge made by Mr. Lamb
on the hustings, and now confirmed by Lord Byron, of my having belonged to a Whig club at Cambridge.
Such a Whig as I then was, I am now. I had no notion that the name implied selfishness and
subserviency, and desertion of the most important principles for the sake of the least important
interest. I had no notion that it implied anything more than an attachment to the principles
the ascendency of which expelled the Stuarts from the Throne. Lord Byron belonged to this Cambridge
club, and desired me to scratch out his name, on account of the criticism in the Edinburgh
Review on his early poems; but, exercising my discretion on the subject, I did not erase his
name, but reconciled him to the said Whigs.

The members of the club were but few, and with those who have any marked politics amongst them,
I continue to agree at this day. They were but ten, and you must know most of them--Mr. W.
Ponsonby, Mr. George O'Callaghan, the Duke of Devonshire, Mr. Dominick Browne, Mr. Henry Pearce,
Mr. Kinnaird, Lord Tavistock, Lord Ellenborough, Lord Byron, and myself. I was not, as Lord
Byron says in the song, the founder of this Club; [Footnote:

"But when we at Cambridge were My boy Hobbie O! If my memory do not err, You founded a Whig
Clubbie O!"

] on the contrary, thinking myself of mighty importance in those days, I recollect very well
that some difficulty attended my consenting to belong to the club, and I have by me a letter
from Lord Tavistock, in which the distinction between being a Whig party man and a Revolution
Whig is strongly insisted upon.

I have troubled you with this detail in consequence of Lord Byron's charge, which he, who despises
and defies, and has lampooned the Whigs all round, only invented out of wantonness, and for
the sake of annoying me--and he has certainly succeeded, thanks to your circulating this filthy
ballad. As for his Lordship's vulgar notions about the mob, they are very fit for the Poet
of the Morning Post, and for nobody else. Nothing in the ballad annoyed me but the charge about
the Cambridge club, because nothing else had the semblance of truth; and I own it has hurt
me very much to find Lord Byron playing into the hands of the Holland House sycophants, for
whom he has himself the most sovereign contempt, and whom in other days I myself have tried
to induce him to tolerate.

I shall say no more on this unpleasant subject except that, by a letter which I have just received
from Lord Byron, I think he is ashamed of his song. I shall certainly speak as plainly to him
as I have taken the liberty to do to you on this matter. He was very wanton and you very indiscreet;
but I trust neither one nor the other meant mischief, and there's an end of it. Do not aggravate
matters by telling how much I have been annoyed. Lord Byron has sent me a list of his new poems
and some prose, all of which he requests me to prepare for the press for him. The monied arrangement
is to be made by Mr. Kinnaird. When you are ready for me, the materials may be sent to me at
this place, where I have taken up my abode for the season.

I remain, very truly yours, JOHN CAM HOBHOUSE.

Towards the end of 1820 Lord Byron wrote a long letter to Mr. Murray on Mr. Bowles's strictures
on the "Life and Writings of Pope." It was a subject perhaps unworthy of his pen, but being
an ardent admirer of Pope, he thought it his duty to "bowl him [Bowles] down." "I mean to lay
about me," said Byron, "like a dragon, till I make manure of Bowles for the top of Parnassus."

After some revision, the first and second letters to Bowles were published, and were well received.

The tragedy of "Sardanapalus," the last three acts of which had been written in a fortnight,
was despatched to Murray on May 30, 1821, and was within a few weeks followed by "The Two Foscari:
an Historical Tragedy"--which had been composed within a month--and on September 10 by "Cain,
a Mystery." The three dramas, "Sardanapalus," "The Two Foscari," and "Cain, a Mystery," were
published together in December 1821, and Mr. Murray paid Lord Byron for them the sum of £2,710.

"Cain" was dedicated, by his consent, to Sir Walter Scott, who, in writing to Mr. Murray, described
it as "a very grand and tremendous drama." On its first appearance it was reprinted in a cheap
form by two booksellers, under the impression that the Court of Chancery would not protect
it, and it therefore became necessary to take out an injunction to restrain these piratical
publishers.

The case came before Lord Chancellor Eldon on February 9. Mr. Shadwell, Mr. Spence, and Sergeant
Copley were retained by Mr. Murray, and after considerable discussion the injunction was refused,
the Lord Chancellor intimating that the publisher must establish his right to the publication
at law, and obtain the decision of a jury, on which he would grant the injunction required.
This was done accordingly, and the copyright in "Cain" was thus secured.

On the death of Allegra, his natural daughter, Lord Byron entrusted to Mr. Murray the painful
duty of making arrangements for the burial of the remains in Harrow Church. Mr. Cunningham,
the clergyman of Harrow, wrote in answer to Mr. Murray:

Rev. J.W. Cunningham to John Murray.

August 20, 1822.

Sir,

Mr. Henry Drury was so good as to communicate to me a request conveyed to you by Lord Byron
respecting the burial of a child in this church. Mr. H. Drury will probably have also stated
to you my willingness to comply with the wish of Lord Byron. Will you forgive me, however,
for so far trespassing upon you (though a stranger) as to suggest an inquiry whether it might
not be practicable and desirable to fulfil for the present only a part of his Lordship's wish--by
burying the child, and putting up a tablet with simply its name upon the tablet; and thus leaving
Lord B. more leisure to reflect upon the character of the inscription he may wish to be added.
It does seem to me that whatever he may wish in the moment of his distress about the loss of
this child, he will afterwards regret that he should have taken pains to proclaim to the world
what he will not, I am sure, consider as honourable to his name. And if this be probable, then
it appears to me the office of a true friend not to suffer him to commit himself but to allow
his mind an opportunity of calm deliberation. I feel constrained to say that the inscription
he proposed will be felt by every man of refined taste, to say nothing of sound morals, to
be an offence against taste and propriety. My correspondence with his Lordship has been so
small that I can scarcely venture myself to urge these objections. You perhaps will feel no
such scruple. I have seen no person who did not concur in the propriety of stating them. I
would entreat, however, that should you think it right to introduce my name into any statement
made to Lord Byron, you will not do it without assuring him of my unwillingness to oppose the
smallest obstacle to his wishes, or give the slightest pain to his mind. The injury which,
in my judgment, he is from day to day inflicting upon society is no justification for measures
of retaliation and unkindness.

Your obedient and faithful Servant, J.W. CUNNINGHAM.

No communication having been received by the Rector, he placed the application from Lord Byron
before the churchwardens.

Rev. J.W. Cunningham to John Murray.

"The churchwardens have been urged to issue their prohibition by several leading and influential
persons, laymen, in the parish. You are aware that as to ex-parishioners the consent of the
churchwardens is no less necessary than my own; and that therefore the enclosed prohibition
is decisive as to the putting up of the monument. You will oblige me by making known to Lord
Byron the precise circumstances of the case.

I am, your obedient Servant, J.W. CUNNINGHAM.

The prohibition was as follows:

HARROW, September 17, 1822.

Honored Sir,

I object on behalf of the parish to admit the tablet of Lord Byron's child into the church.

JAMES WINKLEY, Churchwarden.

The remains of Allegra, after long delay, were at length buried in the church, just under the
present door mat, over which the congregation enter the church; but no memorial tablet or other
record of her appears on the walls of Harrow Church.

CHAPTER XVI

BYRON'S DEATH AND THE DESTRUCTION OF HIS MEMOIRS

No attempt has here been made to present a strictly chronological record of Mr. Murray's life;
we have sought only so to group his correspondence as to lay before our readers the various
episodes which go to form the business life of a publisher. In pursuance of this plan we now
proceed to narrate the closing incidents of his friendship with Lord Byron, reserving to subsequent
chapters the various other transactions in which he was engaged.

During the later months of Byron's residence in Italy this friendship had suffered some interruption,
due in part perhaps to questions which had arisen out of the publication of "Don Juan," and
in part to the interference of the Hunts. Whoever asserts that I am the author or abettor of
anything of the kind on Gifford lies in his throat. I always regarded him as my literary father,
and myself as his prodigal son; if any such composition exists, it is none of mine. Her name
is Hato, or Hatagée.

Byron died at Missolonghi on April 19, 1824, and when the body arrived in London, Murray, on
behalf of Mr. Hobhouse, who was not personally acquainted with Dr. Ireland, the Dean of Westminster,
wrote to him, conveying "the request of the executors and nearest relatives of the deceased
for permission that his Lordship's remains may be deposited in Westminster Abbey, in the most
private manner, at an early hour in the morning."

Dr. Ireland to John Murray. ISLIP, OXFORD, July 8, 1824.

Dear Sir,

No doubt the family vault is the most proper place for the remains of Lord Byron. It is to
be wished, however, that nothing had been said publicly about Westminster Abbey before it was
known whether the remains could be received there. In the newspapers, unfortunately, it has
been proclaimed by somebody that the Abbey was to be the spot, and, on the appearance of this
article, I have been questioned as to the truth of it from Oxford. My answer has been that
the proposal has been made, but civilly declined. I had also informed the members of the church
at Westminster (after your first letter) that I could not grant the favour asked. I cannot,
therefore, answer now that the case will not be mentioned (as it has happened) by some person
or other who knows it. The best thing to be done, however, by the executors and relatives,
is to carry away the body, and say as little about it as possible. Unless the subject is provoked
by some injudicious parade about the remains, perhaps the matter will draw little or no notice.

Yours very truly,

J. IRELAND,

The death of Byron brought into immediate prominence the question of his autobiographical memoirs,
the MS. of which he had given to Moore, who was at that time his guest at La Mira, near Venice,
in 1819.

Moore was greatly gratified by the gift, and said the Memoirs would make a fine legacy for
his little boy. Lord Byron informed Mr. Murray by letter what he had done. "They are not,"
he said, "for publication during my life, but when I am cold you may do what you please." In
a subsequent letter to Mr. Murray, Lord Byron said: "As you say my prose is good, why don't
you treat with Moore for the reversion of my Memoirs?--conditionally recollect; not to be published
before decease. He has the permission to dispose of them, and I advised him to do so." Moore
thus mentions the subject in his Memoirs:

"May 28, 1820.--Received a letter at last from Lord Byron, through Murray, telling me he had
informed Lady B. of his having given me his Memoirs for the purpose of their being published
after his death, and offering her the perusal of them in case she might wish to confute any
of his statements. [Footnote: For Byron's reply to this letter, see Moore's Memoirs, iii. 115.]

Moore received the continuation of Lord Byron's Memoirs on December 26, 1820, the postage amounting
to forty-six francs and a half. "He advises me," said Moore in his Diary, "to dispose of the
reversion of the MS. now." Accordingly, Moore, being then involved in pecuniary responsibilities
by the defalcations of his deputy in Bermuda, endeavoured to dispose of the "Memoirs of Lord
Byron." He first wrote to the Messrs. Longman, who did not offer him enough; and then to Mr.
Murray, who offered him the sum of 2,000 guineas, on condition that he should be the editor
of the Memoirs, and write the Life of Lord Byron.

John Murray to Lord Byron. July 24, 1821.

Dear Lord Byron,

I have just received a letter from Mr. Moore--the subject of it is every way worthy of your
usual liberality--and I had not a moment's hesitation in acceding to a proposal which enabled
me in any way to join in assisting so excellent a fellow. I have told him--which I suppose
you will think fair--that he should give me all additions that you may from time to time make--and
in case of survivorship edit the whole--and I will leave it as an heirloom to my son.

I have written to accede to Mr. Moore's proposal. I remain, dear Lord Byron, Your grateful
and faithful Servant, JOHN MURRAY.

Mr. Moore accepted the proposal, and then proceeded to draw upon Mr. Murray for part of the
money. It may be added that the agreement between Murray and Moore gave the former the right
of publishing the Memoirs three months after his Lordship's death. When that event was authenticated,
the manuscript remained at Mr. Murray's absolute disposal if Moore had not previously redeemed
it by the repayment of the 2,000 guineas.

During the period that Mr. Moore had been in negotiation with the Longmans and Murray respecting
the purchase of the Memoirs, he had given "Lady Holland the MS. to read." Lord John Russell
also states, in his "Memoirs of Moore," that he had read "the greater part, if not the whole,"
and that he should say that some of it was too gross for publication. When the Memoirs came
into the hands of Mr. Murray, he entrusted the manuscript to Mr. Gifford, whose opinion coincided
with that of Lord John Russell. A few others saw the Memoirs, amongst them Washington Irving
and Mr. Luttrell. Irving says, in his "Memoirs," that Moore showed him the Byron recollections
and that they were quite unpublishable.

Mr. Moore himself seems to have been thrown into some doubt as to the sale of the manuscript
by the opinion of his friends. "Lord Holland," he said, "expressed some scruples as to the
sale of Lord Byron's Memoirs, and he wished that I could have got the 2,000 guineas in any
other way; he seemed to think it was in cold blood, depositing a sort of quiver of poisoned
arrows for a future warfare upon private character." [Footnote: Lord John Russell's "Memoirs,
Journals, and Correspondence of Thomas Moore," iii. p. 298.] Mr. Moore had a long conversation
on the subject with Mr. J.C. Hobhouse, "who," he says in his Journal, "is an upright and honest
man." When speaking of Lord Byron, Hobhouse said, "I know more about Lord Byron than any one
else, and much more than I should wish any one else to know."

Lady Byron offered, through Mr. Kinnaird, to advance 2,000 guineas for the redemption of the
Memoirs from Mr. Murray, but the negotiation was not brought to a definite issue. Moore, when
informed of the offer, objected to Lady Byron being consulted about the matter, "for this would
be treachery to Lord Byron's intentions and wishes," but he agreed to place the Memoirs at
the disposal of Lord Byron's sister, Mrs. Leigh, "to be done with exactly as she thought proper."
Moore was of opinion that those parts of the manuscript should be destroyed which were found
objectionable; but that those parts should be retained which were not, for his benefit and
that of the public.

At the same time it must be remembered that Moore's interest in the Memoirs had now entirely
ceased, for in consequence of the death of Lord Byron they had become Mr. Murray's absolute
property, in accordance with the terms of his purchase. But although Mr. Murray had paid so
large a sum for the manuscript, and would probably have made a considerable profit by its publication,
he was nevertheless willing to have it destroyed, if it should be the deliberate opinion of
his Lordship's friends and relatives that such a step was desirable.

Mr. Murray therefore put himself into communication with Lord Byron's nearest friends and relations
with respect to the disposal of the Memoirs. His suggestion was at first strongly opposed by
some of them; but he urged his objections to publication with increased zeal, even renouncing
every claim to indemnification for what he had paid to Mr. Moore. A meeting of those who were
entitled to act in the matter was at length agreed upon, and took place in Murray's drawing-room,
on May 17, 1824. There were present Mr. Murray, Mr. Moore, Mr. J.C. Hobhouse, Colonel Doyle
representing Lady Byron, Mr. Wilmot Horton representing Mrs. Leigh, and Mr. Luttrell, a friend
of Moore's. Young Mr. Murray--then sixteen; the only person of those assembled now living [1891]--was
also in the room. The discussion was long and stormy before the meeting broke up, and nearly
led to a challenge between Moore and Hobhouse. A reference to the agreement between Moore and
Murray became necessary, but for a long time that document could not be found; it was at length
discovered, but only after the decision to commit the manuscript to the flames had been made
and carried out, and the party remained until the last sheet of Lord Byron's Memoirs had vanished
in smoke up the Albemarle Street chimney.

Immediately after the burning, Mrs. Leigh wrote the following account to her friend, the Rev.
Mr. Hodgson, an old friend of Byron's:

The Hon. Mrs. Leigh to the Rev. f. Hodgson.

"The parties, Messrs. Moore, Murray, Hobhouse, Col. Doyle for Lady B., and Mr. Wilmot for me,
and Mr. Luttrell, a friend of Mr. Moore's, met at Mr. Murray's; and after a long dispute and
nearly quarrelling, upon Mr. Wilmot stating what was my wish and opinion, the MS. was burnt,
and Moore paid Murray the 2,000 guineas. Immediately almost after this was done, the legal
agreement between Moore and Murray (which had been mislaid), was found, and, strange to say,
it appeared from it (what both had forgotten), that the property of the MS. was Murray's bond
fide. Consequently he had the right to dispose of it as he pleased; and as he had behaved most
handsomely upon the occasion ... it was desired by our family that he should receive the 2,000
guineas back." [Footnote: "Memoir of the Rev. F. Hodgson," ii. 139-40.]

But the Byrons did not repay the money. Mr. Moore would not permit it. He had borrowed the
2,000 guineas from the Messrs. Longman, and before he left the room, he repaid to Mr. Murray
the sum he had received for the Memoirs, together with the interest during the time that the
purchase-money had remained in his possession.

The statements made in the press, as to Lord Byron's Memoirs having been burnt, occasioned
much public excitement, and many applications were made to Mr. Murray for information on the
subject. Amongst those who made particular inquiry was Mr. Jerdan, of the Literary Gazette,
who inclosed to Mr. Murray the paragraph which he proposed to insert in his journal. Mr. Murray
informed him that the account was so very erroneous, that he desired him either to condense
it down to the smallest compass, or to omit it altogether. Mr. Jerdan, however, replied that
the subject was of so much public interest, that he could not refuse to state the particulars,
and the following was sent to him, prepared by Mr. Murray:

"A general interest having been excited, touching the fate of Lord Byron's Memoirs, written
by himself, and reports, confused and incorrect, having got into circulation upon the subject,
it has been deemed requisite to signify the real particulars. The manuscript of these Memoirs
was purchased by Mr. Murray in the year 1821 for the sum of two thousand guineas, under certain
stipulations which gave him the right of publishing them three months after his Lordship's
demise. In consequence of this, five persons variously concerned in the matter were convened
for discussion upon it. As these Memoirs were not calculated to augment the fame of the writer,
and as some passages were penned in a spirit which his better feelings since had virtually
retracted, Mr. Murray proposed that they should be destroyed, considering it a duty to sacrifice
every view of profit to the noble author, by whose confidence and friendship he had been so
long honoured. The result has been, that notwithstanding some opposition, he obtained the desired
decision, and the Manuscript was forthwith committed to the flames. Mr. Murray was immediately
reimbursed in the purchase-money by Mr. Moore, although Mr. Murray had previously renounced
every claim to repayment."

The particulars of the transaction are more fully expressed in the following letter written
by Mr. Murray to Mr. (afterwards Sir) Robert Wilmot Horton, two days after the destruction
of the manuscript. It seems that Mr. Moore had already made a representation to Mr. Horton
which was not quite correct. [Footnote: Lord J. Russell's " Memoirs, etc., of Thomas Moore,"
iv. p. 188.]

John Murray to Mr. R. Wilmot Horton. ALBEMARLE STREET, May 19, 1824.

Dear Sir,

On my return home last night I found your letter, dated the 17th, calling on me for a specific
answer whether I acknowledged the accuracy of the statement of Mr. Moore, communicated in it.
However unpleasant it is to me, your requisition of a specific answer obliges me to say that
I cannot, by any means, admit the accuracy of that statement; and in order to explain to you
how Mr. Moore's misapprehension may have arisen, and the ground upon which my assertion rests,
I feel it necessary to trouble you with a statement of all the circumstances of the case, which
will enable you to judge for yourself.

Lord Byron having made Mr. Moore a present of his Memoirs, Mr. Moore offered them for sale
to Messrs. Longman & Co., who however declined to purchase them; Mr. Moore then made me a similar
offer, which I accepted; and in November 1821, a joint assignment of the Memoirs was made to
me by Lord Byron and Mr. Moore, with all legal technicalities, in consideration of a sum of
2,000 guineas, which, on the execution of the agreement by Mr. Moore, I paid to him. Mr. Moore
also covenanted, in consideration of the said sum, to act as Editor of the Memoirs, and to
supply an account of the subsequent events of Lord Byron's life, etc.

Some months after the execution of this assignment, Mr. Moore requested me, as a great personal
favour to himself and to Lord Byron, to enter into a second agreement, by which I should resign
the absolute property which I had in the Memoirs, and give Mr. Moore and Lord Byron, or any
of their friends, a power of redemption during the life of Lord Byron. As the reason pressed
upon me for this change was that their friends thought there were some things in the Memoirs
that might be injurious to both, I did not hesitate to make this alteration at Mr. Moore's
request; and, accordingly, on the 6th day of May, 1822, a second deed was executed, stating
that, "Whereas Lord Byron and Mr. Moore are now inclined to wish the said work not to be published,
it is agreed that, if either of them shall, during the life of the said Lord Byron, repay the
2,000 guineas to Mr. Murray, the latter shall redeliver the Memoirs; but that, if the sum be
not repaid during the lifetime of Lord Byron, Mr. Murray shall be at full liberty to print
and publish the said Memoirs within Three Months [Footnote: The words "within Three Months
" were substituted for "immediately," at Mr. Moore's request--and they appear in pencil, in
his own handwriting, upon the original draft of the deed, which is still in existence.] after
the death of the said Lord Byron." I need hardly call your particular attention to the words,
carefully inserted twice over in this agreement, which limited its existence to the lifetime
of Lord Byron; the reason of such limitation was obvious and natural--namely that, although
I consented to restore the work, while Lord Byron should be alive to direct the ulterior disposal
of it, I would by no means consent to place it after his death at the disposal of any other person.

I must now observe that I had never been able to obtain possession of the original assignment,
which was my sole lien on this property, although I had made repeated applications to Mr. Moore
to put me into possession of the deed, which was stated to be in the hands of Lord Byron's
banker. Feeling, I confess, in some degree alarmed at the withholding the deed, and dissatisfied
at Mr. Moore's inattention to my interests in this particular, I wrote urgently to him in March
1823, to procure me the deed, and at the same time expressed my wish that the second agreement
should either be cancelled or at once executed.

Finding this application unavailing, and becoming, by the greater lapse of time, still more
doubtful as to what the intentions of the parties might be, I, in March 1824, repeated my demand
to Mr. Moore in a more peremptory manner, and was in consequence at length put into possession
of the original deed. But, not being at all satisfied with the course that had been pursued
towards me, I repeated to Mr. Moore my uneasiness at the terms on which I stood under the second
agreement, and renewed my request to him that he would either cancel it, or execute its provisions
by the immediate redemption of the work, in order that I might exactly know what my rights
in the property were. He requested time to consider this proposition. In a day or two he called,
and told me that he would adopt the latter alternative--namely, the redemption of the Memoirs--as
he had found persons who were ready to advance the money on his injuring his life; and he promised
to conclude the business on the first day of his return to town, by paying the money and giving
up the agreement. Mr. Moore did return to town, but did not, that I have heard of, take any
proceedings for insuring his life; he positively neither wrote nor called upon me as he had
promised to do (though he was generally accustomed to make mine one of his first houses of
call);--nor did he take any other step, that I am aware of, to show that he had any recollection
of the conversation which had passed between us previous to his leaving town, until the death
of Lord Byron had, ipso facto, cancelled the agreement in question, and completely restored
my absolute rights over the property of the Memoirs.

You will therefore perceive that there was no verbal agreement in existence between Mr. Moore
and me, at the time I made a verbal agreement with you to deliver the Memoirs to be destroyed.
Mr. Moore might undoubtedly, during Lord Byron's life, have obtained possession of the Memoirs,
if he had pleased to do so; he however neglected or delayed to give effect to our verbal agreement,
which, as well as the written instrument to which it related, being cancelled by the death
of Lord Byron, there was no reason whatsoever why I was not at that instant perfectly at liberty
to dispose of the MS. as I thought proper. Had I considered only my own interest as a tradesman,
I would have announced the work for immediate publication, and I cannot doubt that, under all
the circumstances, the public curiosity about these Memoirs would have given me a very considerable
profit beyond the large sum I originally paid for them; but you yourself are, I think, able
to do me the justice of bearing witness that I looked at the case with no such feelings, and
that my regard for Lord Byron's memory, and my respect for his surviving family, made me more
anxious that the Memoirs should be immediately destroyed, since it was surmised that the publication
might be injurious to the former and painful to the latter.

As I myself scrupulously refrained from looking into the Memoirs, I cannot, from my own knowledge,
say whether such an opinion of the contents was correct or not; it was enough for me that the
friends of Lord and Lady Byron united in wishing for their destruction. Why Mr. Moore should
have wished to preserve them I did not nor will I inquire; but, having satisfied myself that
he had no right whatever in them, I was happy in having an opportunity of making, by a pecuniary
sacrifice on my part, some return for the honour, and I must add, the profit, which I had derived
from Lord Byron's patronage and friendship. You will also be able to bear witness that--although
I could not presume to impose an obligation on the friends of Lord Byron or Mr. Moore, by refusing
to receive the repayment of the 2,000 guineas advanced by me--yet I had determined on the destruction
of the Memoirs without any previous agreement for such repayment:--and you know the Memoirs
were actually destroyed without any stipulation on my part, but even with a declaration that
I had destroyed my own private property--and I therefore had no claim upon any party for remuneration.

I remain, dear Sir,

Your faithful servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

Shortly after the burning of the Memoirs, Mr. Moore began to meditate writing a Life of Lord
Byron; "the Longmans looking earnestly and anxiously to it as the great source of my means
of repaying them their money." [Footnote: Moore's Memoirs, iv. 253.] Mr. Moore could not as
yet, however, proceed with the Life, as the most important letters of Lord Byron were those
written to Mr. Murray, which were in his exclusive possession. Lord John Russell also was against
his writing the Life of Byron.

"If you write," he wrote to Moore, "write poetry, or, if you can find a good subject, write
prose; but do not undertake to write the life of another reprobate [referring to Moore's "Life
of Sheridan"]. In short, do anything but write the life of Lord Byron." [Footnote: Moore's
Memoirs, v. 51.]

Yet Moore grievously wanted money, and this opportunity presented itself to him with irresistible
force as a means of adding to his resources. At length he became reconciled to Mr. Murray through
the intercession of Mr. Hobhouse. Moore informed the Longmans of the reconciliation, and, in
a liberal and considerate manner, they said to him, "Do not let us stand in the way of any
arrangements you may make; it is our wish to see you free from debt; and it would be only in
this one work that we should be separated." It was in this way that Mr. Moore undertook to
write for Mr. Murray the Life of Lord Byron. Mr. Murray agreed to repay Moore the 2,000 guineas
he had given for the burned Memoirs and £2,000 extra for editing the letters and writing the
Life, and Moore in his diary says that he considered this offer perfectly liberal. Nothing,
he adds, could be more frank, gentleman-like, and satisfactory than the manner in which this
affair had been settled on all sides.

CHAPTER XVII

SCOTT'S NOVELS--BLACKWOOD AND MURRAY

The account of Mr. Murray's dealings with Lord Byron has carried us considerably beyond the
date at which we left the history of his general business transactions, and compels us to go
back to the year 1814, when, as is related in a previous chapter, he had associated himself
with William Blackwood as his Edinburgh agent.

Blackwood, like Murray, was anxious to have a share in the business of publishing the works
of Walter Scott--especially the novels teeming from the press by "The Author of 'Waverley.'"
Although Constable and the Ballantynes were necessarily admitted to the knowledge of their
authorship, to the world at large they were anonymous, and the author still remained unknown.
Mr. Murray had, indeed, pointed out to Mr. Canning that "Waverley" was by Walter Scott; but
Scott himself trailed so many red herrings across the path, that publishers as well as the
public were thrown off the scent, and both Blackwood and Murray continued to be at fault with
respect to the authorship of the "Waverley Novels."

In February 1816 Ballantyne assured Blackwood that in a very few weeks he would have something
very important to propose. On April 12 following, Blackwood addressed the following letter
to Murray, "most strictly confidential"; and it contained important proposals:

Mr. W. Blackwood to John Murray.

MY DEAR MURRAY,

Some time ago I wrote to you that James Ballantyne had dined with me, and from what then passed
I expected that I would soon have something very important to communicate. He has now fully
explained himself to me, with liberty to inform you of anything he has communicated. This,
however, he entreats of us to keep most strictly to ourselves, trusting to our honour that
we will not breathe a syllable of it to the dearest friends we have.

He began by telling me that he thought he had it now in his power to show me how sensible he
was of the services I had done him, and how anxious he was to accomplish that union of interests
which I had so long been endeavouring to bring about. Till now he had only made professions;
now he would act. He said that he was empowered to offer me, along with you, a work of fiction
in four volumes, such as Waverley, etc.; that he had read a considerable part of it; and, knowing
the plan of the whole, he could answer for its being a production of the very first class;
but that he was not at liberty to mention its title, nor was he at liberty to 'give the author's
name. I naturally asked him, was it by the author of "Waverley"? He said it was to have no
reference to any other work whatever, and everyone would be at liberty to form their own conjectures
as to the author. He only requested that, whatever we might suppose from anything that might
occur afterwards, we should keep strictly to ourselves that we were to be the publishers. The
terms he was empowered by the author to offer for it were:

1. The author to receive one-half of the profits of each edition; these profits to be ascertained
by deducting the paper and printing from the proceeds of the book sold at sale price; the publishers
to be at the whole of the expense of advertising. 2. The property of the book to be the publishers',
who were to print such editions as they chose. 3. The only condition upon which the author
would agree to these terms is, that the publisher should take £600 of John Ballantyne's stock,
selected from the list annexed, deducting 25 per cent, from the affixed sale prices. 4. If
these terms are agreed to, the stock to the above amount to be immediately delivered, and a
bill granted at twelve months. 5. That in the course of six or eight weeks, J.B. expected to
be able to put into my hands the first two volumes printed, and that if on perusal we did not
like the bargain, we should be at liberty to give it up. This he considered to be most unlikely;
but if it should be the case, he would bind himself to repay or redeliver the bill on the books
being returned. 6. That the edition, consisting of 2,000 copies, should be printed and ready
for delivery by the 1st of October next.

I have thus stated to you as nearly as I can the substance of what passed. I tried in various
ways to learn something with regard to the author; but he was quite impenetrable. My own impression
now is, that it must be Walter Scott, for no one else would think of burdening us with such
trash as John B.'s wretched stock. This is such a burden, that I am puzzled not a little. I
endeavoured every way I could to get him to propose other terms, but he told me they could
not be departed from in a single part; and the other works had been taken on the same conditions,
and he knew they would be greedily accepted again in the same quarter. Consider the matter
seriously, and write to me as soon as you can. After giving it my consideration, and making
some calculations. I confess I feel inclined to hazard the speculation; but still I feel doubtful
until I hear what you think of it. Do not let my opinion, which may be erroneous, influence
you, but judge for yourself. From the very strong terms in which Jas. B. spoke of the work,
I am sanguine enough to expect it will equal if not surpass any of the others. I would not
lay so much stress upon what he says if I were not assured that his great interest, as well
as Mr. Scott's, is to stand in the very best way both with you and me. They are anxious to
get out of the clutches of Constable, and Ballantyne is sensible of the favour I have done
and may still do him by giving so much employment, besides what he may expect from you. From
Constable he can expect nothing. I had almost forgotten to mention that he assured me in the
most solemn manner that we had got the first offer, and he ardently hoped we would accept of
it. If, however, we did not, he trusted to our honour that we would say nothing of it; that
the author of this work would likely write more; and should we not take this, we might have
it in our power afterwards to do something with him, provided we acted with delicacy in the
transaction, as he had no doubt we would do. I hope you will be able to write to me soon, and
as fully as you can. If I have time tomorrow, or I should rather say this day, as it is now
near one o'clock, I will write you about other matters; and if I have no letter from you, will
perhaps give you another scolding.

Yours most truly,

W. BLACKWOOD.

A long correspondence took place between Blackwood and Murray on Ballantyne's proposal. Blackwood
was inclined to accept, notwithstanding the odd nature of the proposal, in the firm belief
that "the heart's desire" of Ballantyne was to get rid of Constable. He sent Murray a list
of Ballantyne's stock, from which the necessary value of books was to be selected. It appeared,
however, that there was one point on which Blackwood had been mistaken, and that was, that
the copyright of the new novel was not to be absolutely conveyed, and that all that Ballantyne
meant, or had authority to offer, was an edition, limited to six thousand copies, of the proposed
work. Although Murray considered it "a blind bargain," he was disposed to accept it, as it
might lead to something better. Blackwood accordingly communicated to Ballantyne that he and
Murray accepted his offer.

Mr. Wm. Blackwood to John Murray.

April 27, 1816.

"Everything is settled, and on Tuesday Ballantyne is to give a letter specifying the whole
terms of the transaction. He could not do it sooner, he said, as he had to consult the author.
This, I think, makes it clear that it is Walter Scott, who is at Abbotsford just now. What
surprised me a good deal was, James Ballantyne told me that his brother John had gone out there
with Constable, and Godwin (author of 'Caleb Williams'), whom Scott was anxious to see. They
are really a strange set of people.... I am not over fond of all these mysteries, but they
are a mysterious set of personages, and we must manage with them in the best way that we can."

A letter followed from James Ballantyne to Murray (May I, 1816), congratulating him upon concluding
the bargain through Blackwood, and saying:

"I have taken the liberty of drawing upon you at twelve months for £300 for your share....
It will be a singularly great accommodation if you can return the bill in course of post."

Although Ballantyne had promised that the first edition of the proposed work should be ready
by October 1, 1816, Blackwood found that in June the printing of the work had not yet commenced.
Ballantyne said he had not yet got any part of the manuscript from the author, but that he
would press him again on the subject. The controversy still continued as to the authorship
of the Waverley Novels. "For these six months past," wrote Blackwood (June 6, 1816), "there
have been various rumours with regard to Greenfield being the author of these Novels, but I
never paid much attention to it; the thing appeared to me so very improbable.... But from what
I have heard lately, and from what you state, I now begin to think that Greenfield may probably
be the author." On the other hand, Mr. Mackenzie called upon Blackwood, and informed him that
"he was now quite convinced that Thomas Scott, Walter's brother in Canada, writes all the novels."
The secret, however, was kept for many years longer.

Blackwood became quite provoked at the delay in proceeding with the proposed work.

Mr. Wm. Blackwood to John Murray.

June 21, 1816.

"I begin to fear that S.B. and Cy. are a nest of----. There is neither faith nor truth in them.
In my last letter I mentioned to you that there was not the smallest appearance of the work
being yet begun, and there is as little still. James Ballantyne shifts this off his own shoulders
by saying that he cannot help it. Now, my own belief is that at the time he made such solemn
promises to me that the first volume would be in my hands in a month, he had not the smallest
expectation of this being the case; but he knew that he would not have got our bills, which
he absolutely wanted, without holding this out. It is now seven weeks since the bills were
granted, and it is five weeks since I gave him the list of books which were to be delivered.
I have applied to him again and again for them, and on Tuesday last his man at length called
on me to say that John Ballantyne & Co. could not deliver fifty sets of 'Kerr's Voyages'--that
they had only such quantities of particular odd volumes of which he showed me a list."

Blackwood called upon Ballantyne, but he could not see him, and instead of returning Blackwood's
visit, he sent a note of excuse. Next time they met was at Hollingworth's Hotel, after which
Ballantyne sent Blackwood a letter "begging for a loan of £50 till next week, but not a word
of business in it." Next time they met was at the same hotel, when the two dined with Robert
Miller.

Mr. Wm. Blackwood to John Murray.

"After dinner I walked home with J.B. Perhaps from the wine he had drunk, he was very communicative,
and gave me a great deal of very curious and interesting private history. Would you believe
it, that about six weeks ago--at the very time our transaction was going on--these worthies,
Scott, Ballantyne & Co., concluded a transaction with Constable for 10,000 copies of this said
'History of Scotland' [which had been promised to Blackwood and Murray] in 4 vols., and actually
received bills for the profits expected to be realized from this large number! Yet, when I
put James Ballantyne in mind on Tuesday of what he had formally proposed by desire of Mr. Scott,
and assured us we were positively to get the work, and asked him if there was any truth in
the rumour I had heard, and even that you had heard, about Mr. Scott being about to publish
a 'History of Scotland' with his name, and further asked him if Mr. Scott was now ready to
make any arrangements with us about it (for it never occurred to me that he could make arrangements
with any one else), he solemnly assured me that he knew nothing about it! Now, after this,
what confidence can we have in anything that this man will say or profess! I confess I am sadly
mortified at my own credulousness. John I always considered as no better than a swindler, but
James I put some trust and confidence in. You judged more accurately, for you always said that
'he was a damned cunning fellow!' Well, there is every appearance of your being right; but
his cunning (as it never does) will not profit him. Within these three years I have given him
nearly £1,400 for printing, and in return have only received empty professions, made, to be
sure, in the most dramatic manner. Trite as the saying is, honesty is always the best policy;
and if we live a little longer, we shall see what will be the end of all their cunning, never-ending
labyrinths of plots and schemes. Constable is the proper person for them; set a thief to catch
a thief: Jonathan Wild will be fully a match for any of the heroes of the 'Beggar's Opera.'
My blood boils when I think of them, and still more when I think of my allowing myself so long
to keep my eyes shut to what I ought to have seen long ago. But the only apology I make to
myself is, that one does not wish to think so ill of human nature. There is an old Scotch proverb,
'He has need o' a lang spoon that sups wi' the De'il,' and since we are engaged, let us try
if we can partake of the broth without scalding ourselves. I still hope that we may; and however
much my feelings revolt at having any connection in future with them, yet I shall endeavour
to the best of my power to repress my bile, and to turn their own tricks against themselves.
One in business must submit to many things, and swallow many a bitter pill, when such a man
as Walter Scott is the object in view. You will see, by this day's Edinburgh papers, that the
copartnery of John Ballantyne & Co. is formally dissolved. Miller told me that, before James
Ballantyne could get his wife's friends to assent to the marriage, Walter Scott was obliged
to grant bonds and securities, taking upon himself all the engagements of John Ballantyne &
Co., as well as of James Ballantyne & Co.; [Footnote: Lockhart says, in his "Life of Scott,"
that "in Feb., 1816, when James Ballantyne married, it is clearly proved, by letters in his
handwriting, that he owed to Scott more than £3,000 of personal debt."] so that, if there was
any difficulty on their part, he bound himself to fulfil the whole. When we consider the large
sums of money Walter Scott has got for his works, the greater part of which has been thrown
into the hands of the Ballantynes, and likewise the excellent printing business J.B. has had
for so many years, it is quite incomprehensible what has become of all the money. Miller says,
'It is just a jaw hole which swallows up all,' and from what he has heard he does not believe
Walter Scott is worth anything."

Murray was nevertheless willing to go on until the terms of his bargain with Ballantyne were
fulfilled, and wrote to Blackwood that he was "resolved to swallow the pill, bitter though
it was," but he expressed his surprise that "Mr. Scott should have allowed his property to
be squandered as it has been by these people."

Blackwood, however, was in great anxiety about the transaction, fearing the result of the engagement
which he and Murray had entered into.

Mr. Wm. Blackwood to John Murray.

July 2, 1816.

"This morning I got up between five and six, but instead of sitting down to write to you, as
I had intended, I mounted my pony and took a long ride to collect my thoughts. Sitting, walking,
or riding is all the same. I feel as much puzzled as ever, and undetermined whether or not
to cut the Gordian knot. Except my wife, there is not a friend whom I dare advise with. I have
not once ventured to mention the business at all to my brother, on account of the cursed mysteries
and injunctions of secrecy connected with it. I know he would blame me for ever engaging in
it, for he has a very small opinion of the Ballantynes. I cannot therefore be benefited by
his advice. Mrs. Blackwood, though she always disliked my having any connection with the Ballantynes,
rather thinks we should wait a few weeks longer, till we see what is produced. I believe, after
all, this is the safest course to pursue. I would beg of you, however, to think maturely upon
the affair, taking into account Mr. Scott's usefulness to the Review. Take a day or two to
consider the matter fully, and then give me your best advice.... As to Constable or his triumphs,
as he will consider them, I perfectly agree with you that they are not to be coveted by us,
and that they should not give us a moment's thought. Thank God, we shall never desire to compass
any of our ends by underhand practices."

Meanwhile correspondence with Ballantyne about the work of fiction--the name of which was still
unknown-was still proceeding. Ballantyne said that the author "promised to put the first volume
in his hands by the end of August, and that the whole would be ready for publication by Christmas."
Blackwood thought this reply was "humbug, as formerly." Nevertheless, he was obliged to wait.
At last he got the first sight of the manuscript.

Mr. Wm. Blackwood to John Murray.

August 23, 1816. Midnight.

"MY DEAR MURRAY,--I have this moment finished the reading of 192 pages of our book--for ours
it must be,--and I cannot go to bed without telling you what is the strong and most favourable
impression it has made upon me. If the remainder be at all equal--which it cannot fail to be,
from the genius displayed in what is now before me--we have been most fortunate indeed. The
title as, TALKS OF MY LANDLORD; collected and reported by Jedediah Cleishbotham, Pariah Clerk
and Schoolmaster of Gandercleugh."

Mr. Blackwood then proceeds to give an account of the Introduction, the commencement of "The
Black Dwarf," the first of the tales, and the general nature of the story, to the end of the
fourth chapter. His letter is of great length, and extends to nine quarto pages. He concludes:

"There cannot be a doubt as to the splendid merit of the work. It would never have done to
have hesitated and higgled about seeing more volumes. In the note which accompanied the sheets,
Ballantyne says, 'each volume contains a Tale,' so there will be four in all. [Footnote: This,
the original intention, was departed from.] The next relates to the period of the Covenanters.
I have now neither doubts nor fears with regard to the whole being good, and I anxiously hope
that you will have as little. I am so happy at the fortunate termination of all my pains and
anxieties, that I cannot be in bad humour with you for not writing me two lines in answer to
my last letters. I hope I shall hear from you to-morrow; but I entreat of you to write me in
course of post, as I wish to hear from you before I leave this [for London], which I intend
to do on this day se'nnight by the smack."

At length the principal part of the manuscript of the novel was in the press, and, as both
the author and the printer were in sore straits for money, they became importunate on Blackwood
and Murray for payment on account. They had taken Ballantyne's "wretched stock" of books, as
Blackwood styled them, and Lockhart, in his "Life of Scott," infers that Murray had consented
to anticipate the period of his payments. At all events, he finds in a letter of Scott's, written
in August, these words to John Ballantyne: "Dear John,--I have the pleasure to enclose Murray's
acceptances. I earnestly recommend you to push, realising as much as you can.

"Consider weel, gude mon,
  We hae but borrowed gear,
The horse that I ride on,
  It is John Murray's mear."

Scott was at this time sorely pressed for ready money. He was buying one piece of land after
another, usually at exorbitant prices, and having already increased the estate of Abbotsford
from 150 to nearly 1,000 acres, he was in communication with Mr. Edward Blore as to the erection
of a dwelling adjacent to the cottage, at a point facing the Tweed. This house grew and expanded,
until it became the spacious mansion of Abbotsford. The Ballantynes also were ravenous for
more money; but they could get nothing from Blackwood and Murray before the promised work was
finished.

At last the book was completed, printed, and published on December 1, 1816; but without the
magical words, "by the Author of 'Waverley,'" on the title-page. All doubts as to the work
being by the author of "Waverley," says Lockhart, had worn themselves out before the lapse
of a week.

John Murray to Mr. Wm. Blackwood.

December 13, 1816.

"Having now heard every one's opinion about our 'Tales of my Landlord,' I feel competent to
assure you that it is universally in their favour. There is only 'Meg Merrilies' in their way.
It is even, I think, superior to the other three novels. You may go on printing as many and
as fast as you can; for we certainly need not stop until we come to the end of our, unfortunately,
limited 6,000.... My copies are more than gone, and if you have any to spare pray send them
up instantly."

On the following day Mr. Murray wrote to Mr. Scott:

John Murray to Mr. Scott.

December 14, 1816.

DEAR SIR,

Although I dare not address you as the author of certain Tales--which, however, must be written
either by Walter Scott or the devil--yet nothing can restrain me from thinking that it is to
your influence with the author of them that I am indebted for the essential honour of being
one of their publishers; and I must intrude upon you to offer my most hearty thanks, not divided
but doubled, alike for my worldly gain therein, and for the great acquisition of professional
reputation which their publication has already procured me. After this, I could throw all the
other books which I have in the press into the Thames, for no one will either read them or
buy. Lord Holland said, when I asked his opinion: "Opinion? we did not one of us go to bed
all night, and nothing slept but my gout." Frere, Hallam, and Boswell; Lord Glenbervie came
to me with tears in his eyes. "It is a cordial," he said, "which has saved Lady Glenbervie's
life." Heber, who found it on his table on his arrival from a journey, had no rest till he
had read it. He has only this moment left me, and he, with many others, agrees that it surpasses
all the other novels. Wm. Lamb also; Gifford never read anything like it, he says; and his
estimate of it absolutely increases at each recollection of it. Barrow with great difficulty
was forced to read it; and he said yesterday, "Very good, to be sure, but what powerful writing
is thrown away." Heber says there are only two men in the world, Walter Scott and Lord Byron.
Between you, you have given existence to a third.

Ever your faithful servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

This letter did not effectually "draw the badger." Scott replied in the following humorous
but Jesuitical epistle:

Mr. Scott to John Murray.

December 18, 1816.

MY DEAR SIR,

I give you hearty joy of the success of the Tales, although I do not claim that paternal interest
in them which my friends do me the credit to assign to me. I assure you I have never read a
volume of them till they were printed, and can only join with the rest of the world in applauding
the true and striking portraits which they present of old Scottish manners.

I do not expect implicit reliance to be placed on my disavowal, because I know very well that
he who is disposed not to own a work must necessarily deny it, and that otherwise his secret
would be at the mercy of all who chose to ask the question, since silence in such a case must
always pass for consent, or rather assent. But I have a mode of convincing you that I am perfectly
serious in my denial--pretty similar to that by which Solomon distinguished the fictitious
from the real mother--and that is by reviewing the work, which I take to be an operation equal
to that of quartering the child.... Kind compliments to Heber, whom I expected at Abbotsford
this summer; also to Mr. Croker and all your four o'clock visitors. I am just going to Abbotsford,
to make a small addition to my premises there. I have now about seven hundred acres, thanks
to the booksellers and the discerning public.

Yours truly,

WALTER SCOTT.

The happy chance of securing a review of the Tales by the author of "Waverley" himself exceeded
Murray's most sanguine expectations, and filled him with joy. He suggested that the reviewer,
instead of sending an article on the Gypsies, as he proposed, should introduce whatever he
had to say about that picturesque race in his review of the Tales, by way of comment on the
character of Meg Merrilies. The review was written, and appeared in No. 32 of the Quarterly,
in January 1817, by which time the novel had already gone to a third edition. It is curious
now to look back upon the author reviewing his own work. He adopted Murray's view, and besides
going over the history of "Waverley," and the characters introduced in that novel, he introduced
a disquisition about Meg Merrilies and the Gypsies, as set forth in his novel of "Guy Mannering."
He then proceeded to review the "Black Dwarf" and "Old Mortality," but with the utmost skill
avoided praising them, and rather endeavoured to put his friends off the scent by undervaluing
them, and finding fault. The "Black Dwarf," for example, was full of "violent events which
are so common in romance, and of such rare occurrence in real life." Indeed, he wrote, "the
narrative is unusually artificial; neither hero nor heroine excites interest of any sort, being
just that sort of pattern people whom nobody cares a farthing about."

"The other story," he adds, "is of much deeper interest." He describes the person who gave
the title to the novel--Robert Paterson, of the parish of Closeburn, in Dumfriesshire--and
introduces a good deal of historical knowledge, but takes exception to many of the circumstances
mentioned in the story, at the same time quoting some of the best passages about Cuddie Headrigg
and his mother. In respect to the influence of Claverhouse and General Dalzell, the reviewer
states that "the author has cruelly falsified history," and relates the actual circumstances
in reference to these generals. "We know little," he says, "that the author can say for himself
to excuse these sophistications, and, therefore, may charitably suggest that he was writing
a romance, and not a history."

Mr. Murray seems to have accepted the suggestion and wrote in January 1817 to Mr. Blackwood:

"I can assure you, but in the greatest confidence, that I have discovered the author of all
these Novels to be Thomas Scott, Walter Scott's brother. He is now in Canada. I have no doubt
but that Mr. Walter Scott did a great deal to the first 'Waverley Novel,' because of his anxiety
to serve his brother, and his doubt about the success of the work. This accounts for the many
stories about it. Many persons had previously heard from Mr. Scott, but you may rely on the
certainty of what I have told you. The whole country is starving for want of a complete supply
of the 'Tales of my Landlord,' respecting the interest and merit of which there continues to
be but one sentiment."

A few weeks later Blackwood wrote to Murray:

January 22, 1817.

"It is an odd story here, that Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Scott are the authors of all these Novels.
I, however, still think, as Mr. Croker said to me in one of his letters, that if they were
not by Mr. Walter Scott, the only alternative is to give them to the devil, as by one or the
other they must be written."

On the other hand, Bernard Barton wrote to Mr. Murray, and said that he had "heard that James
Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd, was the author of 'Tales of my Landlord,' and that he had had intimation
from himself to that effect," by no means an improbable story considering Hogg's vanity. Lady
Mackintosh also wrote to Mr. Murray: "Did you hear who this new author of 'Waverley' and 'Guy
Mannering' is? Mrs. Thomas Scott, as Mr. Thomas Scott assured Lord Selkirk (who had been in
Canada), and his lordship, like Lord Monboddo, believes it." Murray again wrote to Blackwood
(February 15, 1817): "What is your theory as to the author of 'Harold the Dauntless'? I will
believe, till within an inch of my life, that the author of 'Tales of my Landlord' is Thomas
Scott."

Thus matters remained until a few years later, when George IV. was on his memorable visit to
Edinburgh. Walter Scott was one of the heroes of the occasion, and was the selected cicerone
to the King. One day George IV., in the sudden and abrupt manner which is peculiar to our Royal
Family, asked Scott point-blank: "By the way, Scott, are you the author of 'Waverley'?" Scott
as abruptly answered: "No, Sire!" Having made this answer (said Mr. Thomas Mitchell, who communicated
the information to Mr. Murray some years later), "it is supposed that he considered it a matter
of honour to keep the secret during the present King's reign. If the least personal allusion
is made to the subject in Sir Walter's presence, Matthews says that his head gently drops upon
his breast, and that is a signal for the person to desist."

With respect to the first series of the "Tales of my Landlord," so soon as the 6,000 copies
had been disposed of which the author, through Ballantyne, had covenanted as the maximum number
to be published by Murray and Blackwood, the work reverted to Constable, and was published
uniformly with the other works by the author of "Waverley."

CHAPTER XVIII

ALLIANCE WITH BLACKWOOD--BLACKWOOD'S "EDINBURGH MAGAZINE"--TERMINATION OF PARTNERSHIP

We have already seen that Mr. Murray had some correspondence with Thomas Campbell in 1806 respecting
the establishment of a monthly magazine; such an undertaking had long been a favourite scheme
of his, and he had mentioned the subject to many friends at home as well as abroad. When, therefore,
Mr. Blackwood started his magazine, Murray was ready to enter into his plans, and before long
announced to the public that he had become joint proprietor and publisher of Blackwood's Edinburgh
Magazine.

There was nothing very striking in the early numbers of the Magazine, and it does not appear
to have obtained a considerable circulation. The first editors were Thomas Pringle, who--in
conjunction with a friend--was the author of a poem entitled "The Institute," and James Cleghorn,
best known as a contributor to the Farmers' Magazine. Constable, who was himself the proprietor
of the Scots Magazine as well as of the Farmers' Magazine, desired to keep the monopoly of
the Scottish monthly periodicals in his own hands, and was greatly opposed to the new competitor.
At all events, he contrived to draw away from Blackwood Pringle and Cleghorn, and to start
a new series of the Scots Magazine under the title of the Edinburgh Magazine. Blackwood thereupon
changed the name of his periodical to that by which it has since been so well known. He undertook
the editing himself, but soon obtained many able and indefatigable helpers.

There were then two young advocates walking the Parliament House in search of briefs. These
were John Wilson (Christopher North) and John Gibson Lockhart (afterwards editor of the Quarterly).
Both were West-countrymen--Wilson, the son of a wealthy Paisley manufacturer, and Lockhart,
the son of the minister of Cambusnethan, in Lanarkshire--and both had received the best of
educations, Wilson, the robust Christian, having carried off the Newdigate prize at Oxford,
and Lockhart, having gained the Snell foundation at Glasgow, was sent to Balliol, and took
a first class in classics in 1813. These, with Dr. Maginn--under the sobriquet of "Morgan O'Dogherty,"--Hogg--the
Ettrick Shepherd,--De Quincey--the Opium-eater,--Thomas Mitchell, and others, were the principal
writers in Blackwood.

No. 7, the first of the new series, created an unprecedented stir in Edinburgh. It came out
on October 1, 1817, and sold very rapidly, but after 10,000 had been struck off it was suppressed,
and could be had neither for love nor money. The cause of this sudden attraction was an article
headed "Translation from an Ancient Chaldee Manuscript," purporting to be an extract from some
newly discovered historical document, every paragraph of which contained a special hit at some
particular person well known in Edinburgh society. There was very little ill-nature in it;
at least, nothing like the amount which it excited in those who were, or imagined themselves
to be, caricatured in it. Constable, the "Crafty," and Pringle and Cleghorn, editors of the
Edinburgh Magazine, as well as Jeffrey, editor of the Edinburgh Review, came in for their share
of burlesque description.

Among the persons delineated in the article were the publisher of Blackwood's Edinburgh Magazine,
whose name "was as it had been, the colour of Ebony": indeed the name of Old Ebony long clung
to the journal. The principal writers of the article were themselves included in the caricature.
Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd, was described as "the great wild boar from the forest of Lebanon,
and he roused up his spirit, and I saw him whetting his dreadful tusks for the battle." Wilson
was "the beautiful leopard," and Lockhart "the scorpion,"--names which were afterwards hurled
back at them with interest. Walter Scott was described as "the great magician who dwelleth
in the old fastness, hard by the river Jordan, which is by the Border." Mackenzie, Jameson,
Leslie, Brewster, Tytler, Alison, M'Crie, Playfair, Lord Murray, the Duncans--in fact, all
the leading men of Edinburgh were hit off in the same fashion.

Mrs. Garden, in her "Memorials of James Hogg," says that "there is no doubt that Hogg wrote
the first draft; indeed, part of the original is still in the possession of the family....
Some of the more irreverent passages were not his, or were at all events largely added to by
others before publication." [Footnote: Mrs. Garden's "Memorials of James Hogg," p. 107.] In
a recent number of Blackwood it is said that:

"Hogg's name is nearly associated with the Chaldee Manuscript. Of course he claimed credit
for having written the skit, and undoubtedly he originated the idea. The rough draft came from
his pen, and we cannot speak with certainty as to how it was subsequently manipulated. But
there is every reason to believe that Wilson and Lockhart, probably assisted by Sir William
Hamilton, went to work upon it, and so altered it that Hogg's original offspring was changed
out of all knowledge." [Footnote: Blackwood's Magazine, September 1882, pp. 368-9.]

The whole article was probably intended as a harmless joke; and the persons indicated, had
they been wise, might have joined in the laugh or treated the matter with indifference. On
the contrary, however, they felt profoundly indignant, and some of them commenced actions in
the Court of Session for the injuries done to their reputation.

The same number of Blackwood which contained the "Translation from an Ancient Chaldee Manuscript,"
contained two articles, one probably by Wilson, on Coleridge's "Biographia Literaria," the
other, signed "Z," by Lockhart, being the first of a series on "The Cockney School of Poetry."
They were both clever, but abusive, and exceedingly personal in their allusions.

Murray expostulated with Blackwood on the personality of the articles. He feared lest they
should be damaging to the permanent success of the journal. Blackwood replied in a long letter,
saying that the journal was prospering, and that it was only Constable and his myrmidons who
were opposed to it, chiefly because of its success.

In August 1818, Murray paid £1,000 for a half share in the magazine, and from this time he
took a deep and active interest in its progress, advising Blackwood as to its management, and
urging him to introduce more foreign literary news, as well as more scientific information.
He did not like the idea of two editors, who seem to have taken the management into their own
hands.

Subsequent numbers of Blackwood contained other reviews of "The Cockney School of Poetry":
Leigh Hunt, "the King of the Cockneys," was attacked in May, and in August it was the poet
Keats who came under the critic's lash, four months after Croker's famous review of "Endymion"
in the Quarterly. [Footnote: It was said that Keats was killed by this brief notice, of four
pages, in the Quarterly; and Byron, in his "Don Juan," gave credit to this statement:

     "Poor Keats, who was killed off by one critique,
        Just as he really promised something great,...
      'Tis strange, the mind, that very fiery particle,
      Should let itself be snuffed out by an article."

Leigh Hunt, one of Keats' warmest friends, when in Italy, told Lord Byron (as he relates in
his Autobiography) the real state of the case, proving to him that the supposition of Keats'
death being the result of the review was a mistake, and therefore, if printed, would be a misrepresentation.
But the stroke of wit was not to be given up. Either Mr. Gifford, or "the poet-priest Milman,"
has generally, but erroneously, been blamed for being the author of the review in the Quarterly,
which, as is now well known, was written by Mr. Croker.]

The same number of Blackwood contained a short article about Hazlitt--elsewhere styled "pimpled
Hazlitt." It was very short, and entitled "Hazlitt cross-questioned." Hazlitt considered the
article full of abuse, and commenced an action for libel against the proprietors of the magazine.
Upon this Blackwood sent Hazlitt's threatening letter to Murray, with his remarks:

Mr. Blackwood to John Murray.

September 22, 1818.

"I suppose this fellow merely means to make a little bluster, and try if he can pick up a little
money. There is nothing whatever actionable in the paper.... The article on Hazlitt, which
will commence next number, will be a most powerful one, and this business will not deprive
it of any of its edge."

September 25, 1818.

"What are people saying about that fellow Hazlitt attempting to prosecute? There was a rascally
paragraph in the Times of Friday last mentioning the prosecution, and saying the magazine was
a work filled with private slander. My friends laugh at the idea of his prosecution."

Mr. Murray, however, became increasingly dissatisfied with this state of things; he never sympathised
with the slashing criticisms of Blackwood, and strongly disapproved of the personalities, an
opinion which was shared by most of his literary friends. At the same time his name was on
the title-page of the magazine, and he was jointly responsible with Blackwood for the articles
which appeared there.

In a long letter dated September 28, 1818, Mr. Murray deprecated the personality of the articles
in the magazine, and entreated that they be kept out. If not, he begged that Blackwood would
omit his name from the title-page of the work.

A long correspondence took place during the month of October between Murray and Blackwood:
the former continuing to declaim against the personality of the articles; the latter averring
that there was nothing of the sort in the magazine. If Blackwood would only keep out these
personal attacks, Murray would take care to send him articles by Mr. Frere, Mr. Barrow, and
others, which would enhance the popularity and respectability of the publication.

In October of this year was published an anonymous pamphlet, entitled "Hypocrisy Unveiled,"
which raked up the whole of the joke contained in the "Translation from an Ancient Chaldee
Manuscript," published a year before. The number containing it had, as we have already seen,
been suppressed, because of the offence it had given to many persons of celebrity, while the
general tone of bitterness and personality had been subsequently modified, if not abandoned.
Murray assured Blackwood that his number for October 1818 was one of the best he had ever read,
and he desired him to "offer to his friends his very best thanks and congratulations upon the
production of so admirable a number." "With this number," he said, "you have given me a fulcrum
upon which I will move heaven and earth to get subscribers and contributors." Indeed, several
of the contributions in this surpassingly excellent number had been sent to the Edinburgh publisher
through the instrumentality of Murray himself.

"Hypocrisy Unveiled" was a lampoon of a scurrilous and commonplace character, in which the
leading contributors to and the publishers of the magazine were violently attacked. Both Murray
and Blackwood, who were abused openly, by name, resolved to take no notice of it; but Lockhart
and Wilson, who were mentioned under the thin disguise of "the Scorpion" and "the Leopard,"
were so nettled by the remarks on themselves, that they, in October 1818, both sent challenges
to the anonymous author, through the publisher of the pamphlet. This most injudicious step
only increased their discomfiture, as the unknown writer not only refused to proclaim his identity,
but published and circulated the challenges, together with a further attack on Lockhart and Wilson.

This foolish disclosure caused bitter vexation to Murray, who wrote:

John Murray to Mr. Blackwood.

October 27, 1818.

My DEAR BLACKWOOD,

I really can recollect no parallel to the palpable absurdity of your two friends. If they had
planned the most complete triumph to their adversaries, nothing could have been so successfully
effective. They have actually given up their names, as the authors of the offences charged
upon them, by implication only, in the pamphlet. How they could possibly conceive that the
writer of the pamphlet would be such an idiot as to quit his stronghold of concealment, and
allow his head to be chopped off by exposure, I am at a loss to conceive....

I declare to God that had I known what I had so incautiously engaged in, I would not have undertaken
what I have done, or have suffered what I have in my feelings and character--which no man had
hitherto the slightest cause for assailing--I would not have done so for any sum....

In answer to these remonstrances Blackwood begged him to dismiss the matter from his mind,
to preserve silence, and to do all that was possible to increase the popularity of the magazine.
The next number, he said, would be excellent and unexceptionable; and it proved to be so.

The difficulty, however, was not yet over. While the principal editors of the Chaldee Manuscript
had thus revealed themselves to the author of "Hypocrisy Unveiled," the London publisher of
Blackwood was, in November 1818, assailed by a biting pamphlet, entitled "A Letter to Mr. John
Murray, of Albemarle Street, occasioned by his having undertaken the publication, in London,
of Blackwood's Magazine." "The curse of his respectability," he was told, had brought the letter
upon him. "Your name stands among the very highest in the department of Literature which has
fallen to your lot: the eminent persons who have confided in you, and the works you have given
to the world, have conduced to your establishment in the public favour; while your liberality,
your impartiality, and your private motives, bear testimony to the justice of your claims to
that honourable distinction."

Other criticisms of the same kind reached Mr. Murray's ear. Moore, in his Diary (November 4,
1818), writes: "Received two most civil and anxious letters from the great 'Bibliopola Tryphon'
Murray, expressing his regret at the article in Blackwood, and his resolution to give up all
concern in it if it contained any more such personalities." [Footnote: "Memoirs, Journal, and
Correspondence of Thomas Moore," ii. 210. By Lord John Russell.]

Finally the Hazlitt action was settled. Blackwood gave to Murray the following account of the
matter:

December 16, 1818.

"I have had two letters from Mr. Patmore, informing me that Mr. Hazlitt was to drop the prosecution.
His agent has since applied to mine offering to do this, if the expenses and a small sum for
some charity were paid. My agent told him he would certainly advise any client of his to get
out of court, but that he would never advise me to pay anything to be made a talk of, as a
sum for a charity would be. He would advise me, he said, to pay the expenses, and a trifle
to Hazlitt himself privately. Hazlitt's agent agreed to this." [Footnote: I have not been able
to discover what sum, if any, was paid to Hazlitt privately.]

Notwithstanding promises of amendment, Murray still complained of the personalities, and of
the way in which the magazine was edited. He also objected to the "echo of the Edinburgh Review's
abuse of Sharon Turner. It was sufficient to give pain to me, and to my most valued friend.
There was another ungentlemanly and uncalled-for thrust at Thomas Moore. That just makes so
many more enemies, unnecessarily; and you not only deprive me of the communications of my friends,
but you positively provoke them to go over to your adversary."

It seemed impossible to exercise any control over the editors, and Murray had no alternative
left but to expostulate, and if his expostulations were unheeded, to retire from the magazine.
The last course was that which he eventually decided to adopt, and the end of the partnership
in Blackwood's Magazine, which had long been anticipated, at length arrived. Murray's name
appeared for the last time on No. 22, for January 1819; the following number bore no London
publisher's name; but on the number for March the names of T. Cadell and W. Davies were advertised
as the London agents for the magazine.

On December 17, 1819, £1,000 were remitted to Mr. Murray in payment of the sum which he had
originally advanced to purchase his share, and his connection with Blackwood's Magazine finally
ceased. He thereupon transferred his agency for Scotland to Messrs. Oliver & Boyd, with whose
firm it has ever since remained. The friendly correspondence between Murray and Blackwood nevertheless
continued, as they were jointly interested in several works of importance.

In the course of the following year, "Christopher North" made the following statement in Blackwood's
Magazine in "An Hour's Tête-à-tête with the Public":

"The Chaldee Manuscript, which appeared in our seventh number, gave us both a lift and a shove.
Nothing else was talked of for a long while; and after 10,000 copies had been sold, it became
a very great rarity, quite a desideratum.... The sale of the Quarterly is about 14,000, of
the Edinburgh upwards of 7,000.... It is not our intention, at present, to suffer our sale
to go beyond 17,000.... Mr. Murray, under whose auspices our magnum opus issued for a few months
from Albemarle Street, began to suspect that we might be eclipsing the Quarterly Review. No
such eclipse had been foretold; and Mr. Murray, being no great astronomer, was at a loss to
know whether, in the darkness that was but too visible, we were eclipsing the Quarterly, or
the Quarterly eclipsing us. We accordingly took our pen, and erased his name from our title-page,
and he was once more happy. Under our present publishers we carry everything before us in London."

Mr. Murray took no notice of this statement, preferring, without any more words, to be quit
of his bargain.

It need scarcely be added that when Mr. Blackwood had got his critics and contributors well
in hand--when his journal had passed its frisky and juvenile life of fun and frolic--when the
personalities had ceased to appear in its columns, and it had reached the years of judgment
and discretion--and especially when its principal editor, Mr. John Wilson (Christopher North),
had been appointed to the distinguished position of Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University
of Edinburgh--the journal took that high rank in periodical literature which it has ever since
maintained.

CHAPTER XIX

WORKS PUBLISHED IN 1817-18--CORRESPONDENCE, ETC.--

Scott was now beginning to suffer from the terrible mental and bodily strain to which he had
subjected himself, and was shortly after seized with the illness to which reference has been
made in a previous chapter, and which disabled him for some time. Blackwood informed Murray
(March 7, 1817) that Mr. Scott "has been most dangerously ill, with violent pain arising from
spasmodic action in the stomach; but he is gradually getting better."

For some time he remained in a state of exhaustion, unable either to stir for weakness and
giddiness; or to read, for dazzling in his eyes; or to listen, for a whizzing sound in his
ears--all indications of too much brain-work and mental worry. Yet, as soon as he was able
to resume his labours, we find him characteristically employed in helping his poorer friends.

Mr. Blackwood to John Murray.

May 28, 1817.

"Mr. Scott and some of his friends, in order to raise a sum of money to make the poor Shepherd
comfortable, have projected a fourth edition of "The Queen's Wake," with a few plates, to be
published by subscription. We have inserted your name, as we have no doubt of your doing everything
you can for the poor poet. The advertisement, which is excellent, is written by Mr. Scott."

Hogg was tempted by the Duke of Buccleuch's gift of a farm on Eltrive Lake to build himself
a house, as Scott was doing, and applied to Murray for a loan of £50, which was granted. In
acknowledging the receipt of the money he wrote:

Mr. James Hogg to John Murray.

August 11, 1818.

.... I am told Gifford has a hard prejudice against me, but I cannot believe it. I do not see
how any man can have a prejudice against me. He may, indeed, consider me an intruder in the
walks of literature, but I am only a saunterer, and malign nobody who chooses to let me pass....
I was going to say before, but forgot, and said quite another thing, that if Mr. Gifford would
point out any light work for me to review for him, I'll bet a MS. poem with him that I'll write
it better than he expects.

Yours ever most sincerely,

JAMES HOGG.

As Scott still remained the Great Unknown, Murray's correspondence with him related principally
to his articles in the Quarterly, to which he continued an occasional contributor. Murray suggested
to him the subjects of articles, and also requested him to beat up for a few more contributors.
He wanted an article on the Gypsies, and if Scott could not muster time to do it, he hoped
that Mr. Erskine might be persuaded to favour him with an essay.

Scott, however, in the midst of pain and distress, was now busy with his "Rob Roy," which was
issued towards the end of the year.

A short interruption of his correspondence with Murray occurred--Scott being busy in getting
the long buried and almost forgotten "Regalia of Scotland" exposed to light; he was also busy
with one of his best novels, the "Heart of Midlothian." Murray, knowing nothing of these things,
again endeavoured to induce him to renew his correspondence, especially his articles for the
Review. In response Scott contributed articles on Kirkton's "History of the Church of Scotland,"
on Military Bridges, and on Lord Orford's Memoirs.

Towards the end of the year, Mr. Murray paid a visit to Edinburgh on business, and after seeing
Mr. Blackwood, made his way southward, to pay his promised visit to Walter Scott at Abbotsford,
an account of which has already been given in the correspondence with Lord Byron.

James Hogg, who was present at the meeting of Scott and Murray at Abbotsford, wrote to Murray
as follows:

James Hogg to John Murray.

EDINBURGH, February 20, 1819.

MY DEAR SIR,

I arrived here the day before yesterday for my spring campaign in literature, drinking whiskey,
etc., and as I have not heard a word of you or from you since we parted on the top of the hill
above Abbotsford, I dedicate my first letter from the metropolis to you. And first of all,
I was rather disappointed in getting so little cracking with you at that time. Scott and you
had so much and so many people to converse about, whom nobody knew anything of but yourselves,
that you two got all to say, and some of us great men, who deem we know everything at home,
found that we knew nothing. You did not even tell me what conditions you were going to give
me for my "Jacobite Relics of Scotland," the first part of which will make its appearance this
spring, and I think bids fair to be popular....

Believe me, yours very faithfully,

JAMES HOGG.

After the discontinuance of Murray's business connection with Blackwood, described in the preceding
chapter, James Hogg wrote in great consternation:

Mr. James Hogg to John Murray,

ELTRIVE, by SELKIRK, December 9, 1829.

MY DEAR SIR,

By a letter from Blackwood to-day, I have the disagreeable intelligence that circumstances
have occurred which I fear will deprive me of you as a publisher--I hope never as a friend;
for I here attest, though I have heard some bitter things against you, that I never met with
any man whatever who, on so slight an acquaintance, has behaved to me so much like a gentleman.
Blackwood asks to transfer your shares of my trifling works to his new agents. I answered,
"Never! without your permission." As the "Jacobite Relics" are not yet published, and as they
would only involve you further with one with whom you are going to close accounts, I gave him
liberty to transfer the shares you were to have in them to Messrs. Cadell & Davies. But when
I consider your handsome subscription for "The Queen's Wake," if you have the slightest inclination
to retain your shares of that work and "The Brownie," as your name is on them, along with Blackwood,
I would much rather, not only from affection, but interest, that you should continue to dispose
of them.

I know these books are of no avail to you; and that if you retain them, it will be on the same
principle that you published them, namely, one of friendship for your humble poetical countryman.
I'll never forget your kindness; for I cannot think that I am tainted with the general vice
of authors' ingratitude; and the first house that I call at in London will be the one in Albemarle
Street.

I remain, ever yours most truly,

JAMES HOGG.

Murray did not cease to sell the Shepherd's works, and made arrangements with Blackwood to
continue his agency for them, and to account for the sales in the usual way.

The name of Robert Owen is but little remembered now, but at the early part of the century
he attained some notoriety from his endeavours to reform society. He was manager of the Lanark
Cotton Mills, but in 1825 he emigrated to America, and bought land on the Wabash whereon to
start a model colony, called New Harmony. This enterprise failed, and he returned to England
in 1827. The following letter is in answer to his expressed intention of adding Mr. Murray's
name to the title-page of the second edition of his "New View of Society."

John Murray to Mr. Robert Owen.

September 9, 1817.

DEAR SIR,

As it is totally inconsistent with my plans to allow my name to be associated with any subject
of so much political notoriety and debate as your New System of Society, I trust that you will
not consider it as any diminution of personal regard if I request the favour of you to cause
my name to be immediately struck out from every sort of advertisement that is likely to appear
upon this subject. I trust that a moment's reflection will convince which I understand you
talked of sending to my house. I beg leave again to repeat that I retain the same sentiments
of personal esteem, and that I am, dear Sir,

Your faithful servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

Among the would-be poets was a young Quaker gentleman of Stockton-on-Tees who sent Mr. Murray
a batch of poems. The publisher wrote an answer to his letter, which fell into the hands of
the poet's father, who bore the same name as his son. The father answered:

Mr. Proctor to Mr. Murray.

ESTEEMED FRIEND,

I feel very much obliged by thy refusing to publish the papers sent thee by my son. I was entirely
ignorant of anything of the kind, or should have nipt it in the bud. On receipt of this, please
burn the whole that was sent thee, and at thy convenience inform me that it has been done.
With thanks for thy highly commendable care.

I am respectfully, thy friend,

JOHN PROCTOR.

The number of persons who desired to publish poetry was surprising, even Sharon Turner, Murray's
solicitor, whose valuable historical works had been published by the Longmans, wrote to him
about the publication of poems, which he had written "to idle away the evenings as well as
he could." Murray answered his letter:

John Murray to Mr. Sharon Turner.

November 17, 1817.

I do not think it would be creditable to your name, or advantageous to your more important
works, that the present one should proceed from a different publisher. Many might fancy that
Longman had declined it. Longman might suspect me of interference; and thus, in the uncertainty
of acting with propriety myself, I should have little hope of giving satisfaction to you. I
therefore refer the matter to your own feelings and consideration. It has afforded me great
pleasure to learn frequently of late that you are so much better. I hope during the winter,
if we have any, to send you many amusing books to shorten the tediousness of time, and charm
away your indisposition. Mrs. Murray is still up and well, and desires me to send her best
compliments to you and Mrs. Turner.

Ever yours faithfully,

J. MURRAY.

Mr. Turner thanked Mr. Murray for his letter, and said that if he proceeded with his intentions
he would adopt his advice. "I have always found Longman very kind and honourable, but I will
not offer him now what you think it right to decline."

During Gifford's now almost incessant attacks of illness, Mr. Croker took charge of the Quarterly
Review. The following letter embodies some of his ideas as to editing:

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

BRIGHTON, March 29, 1823.

DEAR MURRAY,

As I shall not be in Town in time to see you to-morrow, I send you some papers. I return the
Poor article [Footnote: "On the Poor Laws," by Mr. Gleig.] with its additions. Let the author's
amendments be attended to, and let his termination be inserted between his former conclusion
and that which I have written. It is a good article, not overdone and yet not dull. I return,
to be set up, the article [by Captain Procter] on Southey's "Peninsular War." It is very bad--a
mere abstracted history of the war itself, and not in the least a review of the book. I have
taken pains to remove some part of this error, but you must feel how impossible it is to change
the whole frame of such an article. A touch thrown in here and there will give some relief,
and the character of a review will be in some small degree preserved. This cursed system of
writing dissertations will be the death of us, and if I were to edit another number, I should
make a great alteration in that particular. But for this time I must be satisfied with plastering
up what I have not time to rebuild. One thing I would do immediately if I were you. I would
pay for articles of one sheet as much as for articles of two and three, and, in fact, I would
scarcely permit an article to exceed one sheet. I would reserve such extension for matters
of great and immediate interest and importance. I am delighted that W. [Footnote: Probably
Blanco White.] undertakes one, he will do it well; but remember the necessity of absolute secrecy
on this point, and indeed on all others. If you were to publish such names as Cohen and Croker
and Collinson and Coleridge, the magical WE would have little effect, and your Review would
be absolutely despised--omne ignotum pro mirifico. I suppose I shall see you about twelve on
Tuesday. Could you not get me a gay light article or two? If I am to edit for you, I cannot
find time to contribute. Madame Campan's poem will more than expend my leisure. I came here
for a little recreation, and I am all day at the desk as if I were at the Admiralty. This Peninsular
article has cost me two days' hard work, and is, after all, not worth the trouble; but we must
have something about it, and it is, I suppose, too late to expect anything better. Mr. Williams's
article on Sir W. Scott [Lord Stowell] is contemptible, and would expose your Review to the
ridicule of the whole bar; but it may be made something of, and I like the subject. I had a
long and amusing talk with the Chancellor the night before last, on his own and his brother's
judgments; I wish I had time to embody our conversation in an article.

Yours ever,

J.W.C.

Southey is very long, but as good as he is long--I have nearly done with him. I write very
slowly, and cannot write long. This letter is written at three sittings.

No sooner had Croker got No. 56 of the Review out of his hands than he made a short visit to
Paris. On this Mr. Barrow writes to Murray;

Mr. Barrow to John Murray.

April 2, 1823.

"Croker has run away to Paris, and left poor Gifford helpless. What will become of the Quarterly?
... Poor Gifford told me yesterday that he felt he must give up the Editorship, and that the
doctors had ordered him to do so."

Some months later, Barrow wrote to Murray saying that he had seen Gifford that morning:

Mr. Barrow to John Murray.

August 18, 1823.

"I told him to look out for some one to conduct the Review, but he comes to no decision. I
told him that you very naturally looked to him for naming a proper person. He replied he had--Nassau
Senior--but that you had taken some dislike to him. [Footnote: This, so far as can be ascertained,
was a groundless assumption on Mr. Gifford's part.] I then said, 'You are now well; go on,
and let neither Murray nor you trouble yourselves about a future editor yet; for should you
even break down in the midst of a number, I can only repeat that Croker and myself will bring
it round, and a second number if necessary, to give him time to look out for and fix upon a
proper person, but that the work should not stop.' I saw he did not like to continue the subject,
and we talked of something else."

Croker also was quite willing to enter into this scheme, and jointly with Barrow to undertake
the temporary conduct of the Review. They received much assistance also from Mr. J.T. Coleridge,
then a young barrister. Mr. Coleridge, as will be noticed presently, became for a time editor
of the Quarterly. "Mr. C. is too long," Gifford wrote to Murray, "and I am sorry for it. But
he is a nice young man, and should be encouraged." The acquaintance thus formed led to a close
friendship, which lasted unbroken till Mr. Murray's death.

Mr. Murray published at this time a variety of books of travel. Some of these were sent to
the Marquess of Abercorn--amongst them Mr. (afterwards Sir) Henry Ellis's "Proceedings of Lord
Amherst's Embassy to China," [Footnote: "Journal of the Proceedings of the late Embassy to
China, comprising a Correct Narrative of the Public Transactions of the Embassy, of the Voyage
to and from China, and of the Journey from the Mouth of the Peiho to the Return to Canton."
By Henry Ellis, Esq., Secretary of the Embassy, and Third Commissioner.] about which the Marchioness,
at her husband's request, wrote to the publisher as follows:

Marchioness of Abercorn to John Murray,

December 4, 1817.

"He returns Walpole, as he says since the age of fifteen he has read so much Grecian history
and antiquity that he has these last ten years been sick of the subject. He does not like Ellis's
account of 'The Embassy to China,' [Footnote: Ellis seems to have been made very uncomfortable
by the publication of his book. It was severely reviewed in the Times, where it was said that
the account (then in the press) by Clark Abel, M.D., Principal Medical Officer and Naturalist
to the Embassy, would be greatly superior. On this Ellis wrote to Murray (October 19, 1817):
"An individual has seldom committed an act so detrimental to his interests as I have done in
this unfortunate publication; and I shall be too happy when the lapse of time will allow of
my utterly forgetting the occurrence. I am already indifferent to literary criticism, and had
almost forgotten Abel's approaching competition." The work went through two editions.] but
is pleased with Macleod's [Footnote: "Narrative of a Voyage in His Majesty's late ship Alceste
to the Yellow Sea, along the Coast of Corea, and through its numerous hitherto undiscovered
Islands to the Island of Lewchew, with an Account of her Shipwreck in the Straits of Gaspar."
By John MacLeod, surgeon of the Alceste.] narrative. He bids me tell you to say the best and
what is least obnoxious of the [former] book. The composition and the narrative are so thoroughly
wretched that he should be ashamed to let it stand in his library. He will be obliged to you
to send him Leyden's 'Africa.' Leyden was a friend of his, and desired leave to dedicate to
him while he lived."

Mr. Murray, in his reply, deprecated the severity of the Marquess of Abercorn's criticism on
the work of Sir H. Ellis, who had done the best that he could on a subject of exceeding interest.

John Murray to Lady Abercorn.

"I am now printing Captain Hall's account (he commanded the Lyra), and I will venture to assure
your Ladyship that it is one of the most delightful books I ever read, and it is calculated
to heal the wound inflicted by poor Ellis. I believe I desired my people to send you Godwin's
novel, which is execrably bad. But in most cases book readers must balance novelty against
disappointment.

And in reply to a request for more books to replace those condemned or dull, he asks dryly:

"Shall I withhold 'Rob Roy' and 'Childe Harold' from your ladyship until their merits have
been ascertained? Even if an indifferent book, it is something to be amongst the first to say
that it is bad. You will be alarmed, I fear, at having provoked so many reasons for sending
you dull publications.... I am printing two short but very clever novels by poor Miss Austen,
the author of 'Pride and Prejudice.' I send Leyden's 'Africa' for Lord Abercorn, who will be
glad to hear that the 'Life and Posthumous Writings' will be ready soon."

The Marchioness, in her answer to the above letter, thanked Mr. Murray for his entertaining
answer to her letter, and said:

Marchioness of Abercorn to John Murray.

"Lord Abercorn says he thinks your conduct with respect to sending books back that he does
not like is particularly liberal. He bids me tell you how very much he likes Mr. Macleod's
book; we had seen some of it in manuscript before it was published. We are very anxious for
Hall's account, and I trust you will send it to us the moment you can get a copy finished.

"No, indeed! you must not (though desirous you may be to punish us for the severity of the
criticism on poor Ellis) keep back for a moment 'Rob Roy' or the fourth canto of 'Childe Harold.'
I have heard a good deal from Scotland that makes me continue surmising who is the author of
these novels. Our friend Walter paid a visit last summer to a gentleman on the banks of Loch
Lomond--the scene of Rob Roy's exploits--and was at great pains to learn all the traditions
of the country regarding him from the clergyman and old people of the neighbourhood, of which
he got a considerable stock. I am very glad to hear of a 'Life of Leyden.' He was a very surprising
young man, and his death is a great loss to the world. Pray send us Miss Austen's novels the
moment you can. Lord Abercorn thinks them next to W. Scott's (if they are by W. Scott); it
is a great pity that we shall have no more of hers. Who are the Quarterly Reviewers? I hear
that Lady Morgan suspects Mr. Croker of having reviewed her 'France,' and intends to be revenged,
etc.

"Believe me to be yours, with great regard,

"A.J. ABERCORN."

From many communications addressed to Mr. Murray about the beginning of 1818, it appears that
he had proposed to start a Monthly Register, [Footnote: The announcement ran thus: "On the
third Saturday in January, 1818, will be published the first number of a NEW PERIODICAL JOURNAL,
the object of which will be to convey to the public a great variety of new, original, and interesting
matter; and by a methodical arrangement of all Inventions in the Arts, Discoveries in the Sciences,
and Novelties in Literature, to enable the reader to keep pace with human knowledge. To be
printed uniformly with the QUARTERLY REVIEW. The price by the year will be £2 2s."] and he
set up in print a specimen copy. Many of his correspondents offered to assist him, amongst
others Mr. J. Macculloch, Lord Sheffield, Dr. Polidori, then settled at St. Peter's, Norwich,
Mr. Bulmer of the British Museum, and many other contributors. He sent copies of the specimen
number to Mr. Croker and received the following candid reply:

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

January 11, 1818.

MY DEAR MURRAY,

Our friend Sepping [Footnote: A naval surveyor.] says, "Nothing is stronger than its weakest
part," and this is as true in book-making as in shipbuilding. I am sorry to say your Register
has, in my opinion, a great many weak parts. It is for nobody's use; it is too popular and
trivial for the learned, and too abstruse and plodding for the multitude. The preface is not
English, nor yet Scotch or Irish. It must have been written by Lady Morgan. In the body of
the volume, there is not one new nor curious article, unless it be Lady Hood's "Tiger Hunt."
In your Mechanics there is a miserable want of information, and in your Statistics there is
a sad superabundance of American hyperbole and dulness mixed together, like the mud and gunpowder
which, when a boy, I used to mix together to make a fizz. Your Poetry is so bad that I look
upon it as your personal kindness to me that you did not put my lines under that head. Your
criticism on Painting begins by calling West's very pale horse "an extraordinary effort of
human genius." Your criticism on Sculpture begins by applauding beforehand Mr. Wyatt's impudent
cenotaph. Your criticism on the Theatre begins by denouncing the best production of its kind,
'The Beggar's Opera.' Your article on Engraving puts under the head of Italy a stone drawing
made in Paris. Your own engraving of the Polar Regions is confused and dirty; and your article
on the Polar Seas sets out with the assertion of a fact of which I was profoundly ignorant,
namely, that the Physical Constitution of the Globe is subject to constant changes and revolution.
Of constant changes I never heard, except in one of Congreve's plays, in which the fair sex
is accused of constant inconstancy; but suppose that for constant you read frequent. I should
wish you, for my own particular information, to add in a note a few instances of the Physical
Changes in the Constitution of the Globe, which have occurred since the year 1781, in which
I happened to be born. I know of none, and I should be sorry to go out of the world ignorant
of what has passed in my own time. You send me your proof "for my boldest criticism." I have
hurried over rather than read through the pages, and I give you honestly, and as plainly as
an infamous pen (the same, I presume, which drew your polar chart) will permit, my hasty impression.
If you will call here to-morrow between twelve and one, I will talk with you on the subject.

Yours,

J.W.C.

The project was eventually abandoned. Murray entered into the arrangement, already described,
with Blackwood, of the Edinburgh Magazine. The article on the "Polar Ice" was inserted in the
Quarterly.

Towards the end of 1818, Mr. Crabbe called upon Mr. Murray and offered to publish through him
his "Tales of the Hall," consisting of about twelve thousand lines. He also proposed to transfer
to him from Mr. Colburn his other poems, so that the whole might be printed uniformly. Mr.
Crabbe, who up to this period had received very little for his writings, was surprised when
Mr. Murray offered him no less than £3,000 for the copyright of his poems. It seemed to him
a mine of wealth compared to all that he had yet received. The following morning (December
6) he breakfasted with Mr. Rogers, and Tom Moore was present. Crabbe told them of his good
fortune, and of the magnificent offer he had received. Rogers thought it was not enough, and
that Crabbe should have received £3,000 for the "Tales of the Hall" alone, and that he would
try if the Longmans would not give more. He went to Paternoster Row accordingly, and tried
the Longmans; but they would not give more than £1,000 for the new work and the copyright of
the old poems--that is, only one-third of what Murray had offered. [Footnote: "Memoirs, Journals,
Correspondence, of Thomas Moore," by Lord John Russell, ii. 237.]

When Crabbe was informed of this, he was in a state of great consternation. As Rogers had been
bargaining with another publisher for better terms, the matter seemed still to be considered
open; and in the meantime, if Murray were informed of the event, he might feel umbrage and
withdraw his offer. Crabbe wrote to Murray on the subject, but received no answer. He had within
his reach a prize far beyond his most sanguine hopes, and now, by the over-officiousness of
his friends, he was in danger of losing it. In this crisis Rogers and Moore called upon Murray,
and made enquiries on the subject of Crabbe's poems. "Oh, yes," he said, "I have heard from
Mr. Crabbe, and look upon the matter as settled." Crabbe was thus released from all his fears.
When he received the bills for £3,000, he insisted on taking them with him to Trowbridge to
show them to his son John.

It proved after all that the Longmans were right in their offer to Rogers; Murray was far too
liberal. Moore, in his Diary (iii. 332), says, "Even if the whole of the edition (3,000) were
sold, Murray would still be £1,900 minus." Crabbe had some difficulty in getting his old poems
out of the hands of his former publisher, who wrote to him in a strain of the wildest indignation,
and even threatened him with legal proceedings, but eventually the unsold stock, consisting
of 2,426 copies, was handed over by Hatchard & Colburn to Mr. Murray, and nothing more was
heard of this controversy between them and the poet.

"Anastasius, or Memoirs of a Modern Greek, written at the Close of the 18th Century," was published
anonymously, and was confidently asserted to be the work of Lord Byron, as the only person
capable of having produced it. When the author was announced to be Mr. Thomas Hope, of Deepdene,
some incredulity was expressed by the literati.

The Countess of Blessington, in her "Conversations with Lord Byron," says: "Byron spoke to-day
in terms of high commendation of Hope's 'Anastasius'; said he had wept bitterly over many pages
of it, and for two reasons--first, that he had not written it; and, secondly, that Hope had;
for that it was necessary to like a man excessively to pardon his writing such a book--a book,
he said, excelling all recent productions as much in wit and talent as in true pathos. He added
that he would have given his two most approved poems to have been the author of 'Anastasius.'"
The work was greatly read at the time, and went through many large editions.

The refusal of the "Rejected Addresses," by Horace and James Smith, was one of Mr. Murray's
few mistakes. Horace was a stockbroker, and James a solicitor. They were not generally known
as authors, though they contributed anonymously to the New Monthly Magazine, which was conducted
by Campbell the poet. In 1812 they produced a collection purporting to be "Rejected Addresses,
presented for competition at the opening of Drury Lane Theatre." They offered the collection
to Mr. Murray for £20, but he declined to purchase the copyright. The Smiths were connected
with Cadell the publisher, and Murray, thinking that the MS. had been offered to and rejected
by him, declined to look into it. The "Rejected Addresses" were eventually published by John
Miller, and excited a great deal of curiosity. They were considered to be the best imitations
of living poets ever made. Byron was delighted with them. He wrote to Mr. Murray that he thought
them "by far the best thing of the kind since the 'Rolliad.'" Crabbe said of the verses in
imitation of himself, "In their versification they have done me admirably." When he afterwards
met Horace Smith, he seized both hands of the satirist, and said, with a good-humoured laugh,
"Ah! my old enemy, how do you do?" Jeffrey said of the collection, "I take them, indeed, to
be the very best imitations (and often of difficult originals) that ever were made, and, considering
their extent and variety, to indicate a talent to which I do not know where to look for a parallel."
Murray had no sooner read the volume than he spared no pains to become the publisher, but it
was not until after the appearance of the sixteenth edition that he was able to purchase the
copyright for £131.

Towards the end of 1819, Mr. Murray was threatened with an action on account of certain articles
which had appeared in Nos. 37 and 38 of the Quarterly relative to the campaign in Italy against
Murat, King of Naples. The first was written by Dr. Reginald (afterwards Bishop) Heber, under
the title of "Military and Political Power of Russia, by Sir Robert Wilson"; the second was
entitled "Sir Robert Wilson's Reply." Colonel Macirone occupied a very unimportant place in
both articles. He had been in the service of Murat while King of Naples, and acted as his aide-de-camp,
which post he retained after Murat became engaged in hostilities with Austria, then in alliance
with England. Macirone was furnished with a passport for himself as envoy of the Allied Powers,
and provided with another passport for Murat, under the name of Count Lipona, to be used by
him in case he abandoned his claim to the throne of Naples. Murat indignantly declined the
proposal, and took refuge in Corsica. Yet Macirone delivered to Murat the passport. Not only
so, but he deliberately misled Captain Bastard, the commander of a small English squadron which
had been stationed at Bastia to intercept Murat in the event of his embarking for the purpose
of regaining his throne at Naples. Murat embarked, landed in Italy without interruption, and
was soon after defeated and taken prisoner. He thereupon endeavoured to use the passport which
Macirone had given him, to secure his release, but it was too late; he was tried and shot at
Pizzo. The reviewer spoke of Colonel Macirone in no very measured terms. "For Murat," he said,
"we cannot feel respect, but we feel very considerable pity. Of Mr. Macirone we are tempted
to predict that he has little reason to apprehend the honourable mode of death which was inflicted
on his master. His vocation seems to be another kind of exit."

Macirone gave notice of an action for damages, and claimed no less than £10,000. Serjeant Copley
(afterwards Lord Lyndhurst), then Solicitor-General, and Mr. Gurney, were retained for Mr.
Murray by his legal adviser Mr. Sharon Turner.

The case came on, and on the Bench were seated the Duke of Wellington, Lord Liverpool, and
other leading statesmen, who had been subpoenaed as witnesses for the defence. One of the Ridgways,
publishers, had also been subpoenaed with an accredited copy of Macirone's book; but it was
not necessary to produce him as a witness, as Mr. Ball, the counsel for Macirone, quoted passages
from it, and thus made the entire book available as evidence for the defendant, a proceeding
of which Serjeant Copley availed himself with telling effect. He substantiated the facts stated
in the Quarterly article by passages quoted from Colonel Macirone's own "Memoirs." Before he
had concluded his speech, it became obvious that the Jury had arrived at the conclusion to
which he wished to lead them; but he went on to drive the conclusion home by a splendid peroration.
[Footnote: Given in Sir Theodore Martin's "Life of Lord Lyudhurst," p. 170.] The Jury intimated
that they were all agreed; but the Judge, as a matter of precaution, proceeded to charge them
on the evidence placed before them; and as soon as he had concluded, the Jury, without retiring
from the box, at once returned their verdict for the defendant.

Although Mr. Murray had now a house in the country, he was almost invariably to be found at
Albemarle Street. We find, in one of his letters to Blackwood, dated Wimbledon, May 22, 1819,
the following: "I have been unwell with bile and rheumatism, and have come to a little place
here, which I have bought lately, for a few days to recruit."

The following description of a reception at Mr. Murray's is taken from the "Autobiography"
of Mrs. Bray, the novelist. She relates that in the autumn of 1819 she made a visit to Mr.
Murray, with her first husband, Charles Stothard, son of the well-known artist, for the purpose
of showing him the illustrations of his "Letters from Normandy and Brittany."

"We did not know," she says, "that Mr. Murray held daily from about three to five o'clock a
literary levée at his house. In this way he gathered round him many of the most eminent men
of the time. On calling, we sent up our cards, and finding he was engaged, proposed to retreat,
when Mr. Murray himself appeared and insisted on our coming up. I was introduced to him by
my husband, and welcomed by him with all the cordiality of an old acquaintance. He said Sir
Walter Scott was there, and he thought that we should like to see him, and to be introduced
to him. 'You will know him at once,' added Mr. Murray, 'he is sitting on the sofa near the
fire-place.' We found Sir Walter talking to Mr. Gifford, then the Editor of the Quarterly Review.
The room was filled with men and women, and among them several of the principal authors and
authoresses of the day; but my attention was so fixed on Sir Walter and Mr. Gifford that I
took little notice of the rest. Many of those present were engaged in looking at and making
remarks upon a drawing, which represented a Venetian Countess (Guiccioli), the favourite, but
not very respectable friend of Lord Byron. Mr. Murray made his way through the throng in order
to lead us up to Sir Walter. We were introduced. Mr. Murray, anxious to remove the awkwardness
of a first introduction, wished to say something which would engage a conversation between
ourselves and Sir Walter Scott, and asked Charles if he happened to have about him his drawing
of the Bayeux tapestry to show to Sir Walter. Charles smiled and said 'No'; but the saying
answered the desired end; something had been said that led to conversation, and Sir Walter,
Gifford, Mr. Murray, and Charles chatted on, and I listened.

"Gifford looked very aged, his face much wrinkled, and he seemed to be in declining health;
his dress was careless, and his cravat and waistcoat covered with snuff. There was an antique,
philosophic cast about his head and countenance, better adapted to exact a feeling of curiosity
in a stranger than the head of Sir Walter Scott; the latter seemed more a man of this world's
mould. Such, too, was his character; for, with all his fine genius, Sir Walter would never
have been so successful an author, had he not possessed so large a share of common sense, united
to a business-like method of conducting his affairs, even those which perhaps I might venture
to call the affairs of imagination. We took our leave; and before we got further than the first
landing, we met Mr. Murray conducting Sir Walter downstairs; they were going to have a private
chat before the departure of the latter." Lady Hervey was the daughter of Brigadier-General
Lepel, and the wife of Lord Hervey of Ickworth, author of the "Memoirs of the Court of George
II. and Queen Caroline." Her letters formed a sort of anecdotal history of the politics and
literature of her times. A mysterious attachment is said to have existed between her and Lord
Chesterfield, who, in his letters to his son, desired him never to mention her name when he
could avoid it, while she, on the other hand, adopted all Lord Chesterfield's opinions, as
afterwards appeared in the aforesaid letters. Mr. Walter Hamilton, author of the "Gazetteer
of India," an old and intimate friend of Mr. Murray, who first brought the subject under Mr.
Murray's notice, said, "Lady Hervey writes more like a man than a woman, something like Lady
M.W. Montagu, and in giving her opinion she never minces matters." Mr. Hamilton recommended
that Archdeacon Coxe, author of the "Lives of Sir Robert and Horace Walpole," should be the
editor. Mr. Murray, however, consulted his fidus Achates, Mr. Croker; and, putting the letters
in his hands, asked him to peruse them, and, if he approved, to edit them. The following was
Mr. Croker's answer:

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

November 22, 1820.

DEAR MURRAY,

I shall do more than you ask. I shall give you a biographical sketch--sketch, do you hear?--of
Lady Hervey, and notes on her letters, in which I shall endeavour to enliven a little the sameness
of my author. Don't think that I say sameness in derogation of dear Mary Lepel's powers of
entertainment. I have been in love with her a long time; which, as she was dead twenty years
before I was born, I may without indiscretion avow; but all these letters being written in
a journal style and to one person, there is a want of that variety which Lady Hervey's mind
was capable of giving. I have applied to her family for a little assistance; hitherto without
success; and I think, as a lover of Lady Hervey's, I might reasonably resent the little enthusiasm
I find that her descendants felt about her. In order to enable me to do this little job for
you, I wish you would procure for me a file, if such a thing exists, of any newspaper from
about 1740 to 1758, at which latter date the Annual Register begins, as I remember. So many
little circumstances are mentioned in letters, and forgotten in history, that without some
such guide, I shall make but blind work of it. If it be necessary, I will go to the Museum
and grab them, as my betters have done before me. My dear little Nony [Footnote: Mr. Croker's
adopted daughter, afterwards married to Sir George Barrow.] was worse last night, and not better
all to-day; but this evening they make me happy by saying that she is decidedly improved.

Yours ever,

J.W. CROKER.

Send me "Walpoliana," I have lost or mislaid mine. Are there any memoirs about the date of
1743, or later, beside Bubb's?

That Mr. Croker made all haste and exercised his usual painstaking industry in doing "this
little job" for Mr. Murray will be evident from the following letters:

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

December 27, 1820.

DEAR MURRAY,

I have done "Lady Hervey." I hear that there is a Mr. Vincent in the Treasury, the son of a
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent, to whom the late General Hervey, the favourite son of Lady Hervey, left
his fortune and his papers. Could you find out who they are? Nothing is more surprising than
the ignorance in which I find all Lady Hervey's descendants about her. Most of them never heard
her maiden name. It reminds one of Walpole writing to George Montagu, to tell him who his grandmother
was! I am anxious to knock off this task whilst what little I know of it is fresh in my recollection;
for I foresee that much of the entertainment of the work must depend on the elucidations in
the Notes.

Yours,

J.W.C.

The publication of Lady Hervey's letters in 1821 was so successful that Mr. Croker was afterwards
induced to edit, with great advantage, letters and memorials of a similar character. [Footnote:
As late as 1848, Mr. Croker edited Lord Hervey's "Memoirs of the Court of George II. and Queen
Caroline," from the family archives at Ickworth. The editor in his preface said that Lord Hervey
was almost the Boswell of George II. and Queen Caroline.]

The next important mémoires pour servir were brought under Mr. Murray's notice by Lord Holland,
in the following letter:

Lord Holland to John Murray.

HOLLAND HOUSE, November 1820.

SIR,

I wrote a letter to you last week which by some accident Lord Lauderdale, who had taken charge
of it, has mislaid. The object of it was to request you to call here some morning, and to let
me know the hour by a line by two-penny post. I am authorized to dispose of two historical
works, the one a short but admirably written and interesting memoir of the late Lord Waldegrave,
who was a favourite of George II., and governor of George III. when Prince of Wales. The second
consists of three close-written volumes of "Memoirs by Horace Walpole" (afterwards Lord Orford),
which comprise the last nine years of George II.'s reign. I am anxious to give you the refusal
of them, as I hear you have already expressed a wish to publish anything of this kind written
by Horace Walpole, and had indirectly conveyed that wish to Lord Waldegrave, to whom these
and many other MSS. of that lively and laborious writer belong. Lord Lauderdale has offered
to assist me in adjusting the terms of the agreement, and perhaps you will arrange with him;
he lives at Warren's Hotel, Waterloo Place, where you can make it convenient to meet him. I
would meet you there, or call at your house; but before you can make any specific offer, you
will no doubt like to look at the MSS., which are here, and which (not being mine) I do not
like to expose unnecessarily to the risk even of a removal to London and back again.

I am, Sir, your obedient humble Servant, etc.,

VASSALL HOLLAND.

It would appear that Mr. Murray called upon Lord Holland and looked over the MSS., but made
no proposal to purchase the papers. The matter lay over until Lord Holland again addressed
Mr. Murray.

Lord Holland to John Murray.

"It appears that you are either not aware of the interesting nature of the MSS. which I showed
you, or that the indifference produced by the present frenzy about the Queen's business [Footnote:
The trial of Queen Caroline was then occupying public attention.] to all literary publications,
has discouraged you from an undertaking in which you would otherwise engage most willingly.
However, to come to the point. I have consulted Lord Waldegrave on the subject, and we agree
that the two works, viz. his grandfather, Lord Waldegrave's "Memoirs," and Horace Walpole's
"Memoirs of the Last Nine Years of George II.," should not be sold for less than 3,000 guineas.
If that sum would meet your ideas, or if you have any other offer to make, I will thank you
to let me know before the second of next month."

Three thousand guineas was certainly a very large price to ask for the Memoirs, and Mr. Murray
hesitated very much before acceding to Lord Holland's proposal. He requested to have the MSS.
for the purpose of consulting his literary adviser--probably Mr. Croker, though the following
remarks, now before us, are not in his handwriting.

"This book of yours," says the critic, "is a singular production. It is ill-written, deficient
in grammar, and often in English; and yet it interests and even amuses. Now, the subjects of
it are all, I suppose, gone ad plures; otherwise it would be intolerable. The writer richly
deserves a licking or a cudgelling to every page, and yet I am ashamed to say I have travelled
unwearied with him through the whole, divided between a grin and a scowl. I never saw nor heard
of such an animal as a splenetic, bustling kind of a poco-curante. By the way, if you happen
to hear of any plan for making me a king, be so good as to say that I am deceased; or tell
any other good-natured lie to put the king-makers off their purpose. I really cannot submit
to be the only slave in the nation, especially when I have a crossing to sweep within five
yards of my door, and may gain my bread with less ill-usage than a king is obliged to put up
with. If half that is here told be true, Lord Holland seems to me to tread on

                                   'ignes
                Suppositos cineri doloso'

in retouching any part of the manuscript. He is so perfectly kind and good-natured, that he
will feel more than any man the complaints of partiality and injustice; and where he is to
stop, I see not. There is so much abuse that little is to be gained by an occasional erasure,
while suspicion is excited. He would have consulted his quiet more by leaving the author to
bear the blame of his own scandal."

Notwithstanding this adverse judgment, Mr. Murray was disposed to buy the Memoirs. Lord Holland
drove a very hard bargain, and endeavoured to obtain better terms from other publishers, but
he could not, and eventually Mr. Murray paid to Lord Waldegrave, through Lord Holland, the
sum of £2,500 on November 1, 1821, for the Waldegrave and Walpole Memoirs. They were edited
by Lord Holland, who wrote a preface to each, and were published in the following year, but
never repaid their expenses. After suffering considerable loss by this venture, Mr. Murray's
rights were sold, after his death, to Mr. Colburn.

The last of the mémoires pour servir to which we shall here refer was the Letters of the Countess
of Suffolk, bedchamber woman to the Princess of Wales (Caroline of Anspach), and a favourite
of the Prince of Wales, afterwards George II. The Suffolk papers were admirably edited by Mr.
Croker. The following letter of Croker shows the spirit in which he began to edit the Countess's
letters:

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

May 29, 1822.

DEAR MURRAY,

As you told me that you are desirous of publishing the Suffolk volume by November, and as I
have, all my life, had an aversion to making any one wait for me, I am anxious to begin my
work upon them, and, if we are to be out by November, I presume it is high time. I must beg
of you to answer me the following questions.

1st. What shape will you adopt? I think the correspondence of a nature rather too light for
a quarto, and yet it would look well on the same shelf with Horace Walpole's works. If you
should prefer an octavo, like Lady Hervey's letters, the papers would furnish two volumes.
I, for my part, should prefer the quarto size, which is a great favourite with me, and the
letters of such persons as Pope, Swift, and Gay, the Duchesses of Buckingham, Queensberry,
and Marlbro', Lords Peterborough, Chesterfield, Bathurst, and Lansdowne, Messrs. Pitt, Pulteney,
Pelham, Grenville, and Horace Walpole, seem to me almost to justify the magnificence of the
quarto; though, in truth, all their epistles are, in its narrowest sense, familiar, and treat
chiefly of tittle-tattle.

Decide, however, on your own view of your interests, only recollect that these papers are not
to cost you more than "Belshazzar," [Footnote: Mr. Milman's poem, for which Mr. Murray paid
500 guineas.] which I take to be of about the intrinsic value of the writings on the walls,
and not a third of what you have given Mr. Crayon for his portrait of Squire Bracebridge.

2nd. Do you intend to have any portraits? One of Lady Suffolk is almost indispensable, and
would be enough. There are two of her at Strawberry Hill; one, I think, a print, and neither,
if I forget not, very good. There is also a print, an unassuming one, in Walpole's works, but
a good artist would make something out of any of these, if even we can get nothing better to
make our copy from. If you were to increase your number of portraits, I would add the Duchess
of Queensberry, from a picture at Dalkeith which is alluded to in the letters; Lady Hervey
and her beautiful friend, Mary Bellenden. They are in Walpole's works; Lady Hervey rather mawkish,
but the Bellenden charming. I dare say these plates could now be bought cheap, and retouched
from the originals, which would make them better than ever they were. Lady Vere (sister of
Lady Temple, which latter is engraved in Park's edition of the "Noble Authors") was a lively
writer, and is much distinguished in this correspondence. Of the men, I should propose Lord
Peterborough, whose portraits are little known; Lord Liverpool has one of him, not, however,
very characteristic. Mr. Pulteney is also little known, but he has been lately re-published
in the Kit-cat Club. Of our Horace there is not a decent engraving anywhere. I presume that
there must be a good original of him somewhere. Whatever you mean to do on this point, you
should come to an early determination and put the works in hand.

3rd. I mean, if you approve, to prefix a biographical sketch of Mrs. Howard and two or three
of those beautiful characters with which, in prose and verse, the greatest wits of the last
century honoured her and themselves. To the first letter of each remarkable correspondent I
would also affix a slight notice, and I would add, at the foot of the page, notes in the style
of those on Lady Hervey. Let me know whether this plan suits your fancy.

4th. All the letters of Swift, except one or two, in this collection are printed (though not
always accurately) in Scott's edition of his works. Yet I think it would be proper to reprint
them from the originals, because they elucidate much of Lady Suffolk's history, and her correspondence
could not be said to be complete without them. Let me know your wishes on this point.

5th. My materials are numerous, though perhaps the pieces of great merit are not many. I must
therefore beg of you to set up, in the form and type you wish to adopt, the sheet which I send
you, and you must say about how many pages you wish your volume, or volumes, to be. I will
then select as much of the most interesting as will fill the space which you may desire to occupy.

Yours truly,

J.W. CROKER.

Mr. Croker also consented to edit the letters of Mrs. Delany to Mr. Hamilton, 1779-88, containing
many anecdotes relating to the Royal Family.

Mr. Croker to John Murray.

"I have shown Mrs. Delany's MS. letters to the Prince Regent; he was much entertained with
this revival of old times in his recollection, and he says that every word of it is true. You
know that H.R.H. has a wonderful memory, and particularly for things of that kind. His certificate
of Mrs. Delany's veracity will therefore be probably of some weight with you. As to the letter-writing
powers of Mrs. Delany, the specimen inclines me to doubt. Her style seems stiff and formal,
and though these two letters, which describe a peculiar kind of scene, have a good deal of
interest in them, I do not hope for the same amusement from the rest of the collection. Poverty,
obscurity, general ill-health, and blindness are but unpromising qualifications for making
an agreeable volume of letters. If a shopkeeper at Portsmouth were to write his life, the extracts
of what relates to the two days of the Imperial and Royal visit of 1814 would be amusing, though
all the rest of the half century of his life would be intolerably tedious. I therefore counsel
you not to buy the pig in Miss Hamilton's bag (though she is a most respectable lady), but
ask to see the whole collection before you bid."

The whole collection was obtained, and, with some corrections and elucidations, the volume
of letters was given to the world by Mr. Murray in 1821.

In May 1820 Mr. Murray requested Mr. Croker to edit Horace Walpole's "Reminiscences." Mr. Croker
replied, saying: "I should certainly like the task very well if I felt a little better satisfied
of my ability to perform it. Something towards such a work I would certainly contribute, for
I have always loved that kind of tea-table history." Not being able to undertake the work himself,
Mr. Croker recommended Mr. Murray to apply to Miss Berry, the editor of Lady Russell's letters.
"The Life," he said, "by which those letters were preceded, is a beautiful piece of biography,
and shows, besides higher qualities, much of that taste which a commentator on the 'Reminiscences'
ought to have." The work was accordingly placed in the hands of Miss Berry, who edited it satisfactorily,
and it was published by Mr. Murray in the course of the following year.

Dr. Tomline, while Bishop of Winchester, entered into a correspondence with Mr. Murray respecting
the "Life of William Pitt." In December 1820, Dr. Tomline said he had brought the Memoirs down
to the Declaration of War by France against Great Britain on February I, 1793, and that the
whole would make two volumes quarto. Until he became Bishop of Lincoln, Dr. Tomline had been
Pitt's secretary, and from the opportunities he had possessed, there was promise here of a
great work; but it was not well executed, and though a continuation was promised, it never
appeared. When the work was sent to Mr. Gifford, he wrote to Mr. Murray that it was not at
all what he expected, for it contained nothing of Pitt's private history. "He seems to be uneasy
until he gets back to his Parliamentary papers. Yet it can hardly fail to be pretty widely
interesting; but I would not have you make yourself too uneasy about these things. Pitt's name,
and the Bishop's, will make the work sell." Gifford was right. The "Life" went to a fourth
edition in the following year.

Among Mr. Murray's devoted friends and adherents was Giovanni Belzoni, who, born at Padua in
1778, had, when a young man at Rome, intended to devote himself to the monastic life, but the
French invasion of the city altered his purpose, and, instead of being a monk, he became an
athlete. He was a man of gigantic physical power, and went from place to place, gaining his
living in England, as elsewhere, as a posture-master, and by exhibiting at shows his great
feats of strength. He made enough by this work to enable him to visit Egypt, where he erected
hydraulic machines for the Pasha, and, through the influence of Mr. Salt, the British Consul,
was employed to remove from Thebes, and ship for England, the colossal bust commonly called
the Young Memnon. His knowledge of mechanics enabled him to accomplish this with great dexterity,
and the head, now in the British Museum, is one of the finest specimens of Egyptian sculpture.

Belzoni, after performing this task, made further investigations among the Egyptian tombs and
temples. He was the first to open the great temple of Ipsambul, cut in the side of a mountain,
and at that time shut in by an accumulation of sand. Encouraged by these successes, he, in
1817, made a second journey to Upper Egypt and Nubia, and brought to light at Carnac several
colossal heads of granite, now in the British Museum. After some further explorations among
the tombs and temples, for which he was liberally paid by Mr. Salt, Belzoni returned to England
with numerous drawings, casts, and many important works of Egyptian art. He called upon Mr.
Murray, with the view of publishing the results of his investigations, which in due course
were issued under the title of "Narrative of the Operations and recent Discoveries within the
Pyramids, Temples, Tombs, and Excavations in Egypt and Nubia."

It was a very expensive book to arrange and publish, but nothing daunted Mr. Murray when a
new and original work was brought under his notice. Although only 1,000 copies were printed,
the payments to Belzoni and his translators, as well as for plates and engravings, amounted
to over £2,163. The preparation of the work gave rise to no little difficulty, for Belzoni
declined all help beyond that of the individual who was employed to copy out or translate his
manuscript and correct the press. "As I make my discoveries alone," he said, "I have been anxious
to write my book by myself, though in so doing the reader will consider me, with great propriety,
guilty of temerity; but the public will, perhaps, gain in the fidelity of my narration what
it loses in elegance." Lord Byron, to whom Mr. Murray sent a copy of his work, said: "Belzoni
is a grand traveller, and his English is very prettily broken."

Belzoni was a very interesting character, and a man of great natural refinement. After the
publication of his work, he became one of the fashionable lions of London, but was very sensitive
about his early career, and very sedulous to sink the posture-master in the traveller. He was
often present at Mr. Murray's receptions; and on one particular occasion he was invited to
join the family circle in Albemarle Street on the last evening of 1822, to see the Old Year
out and the New Year in. All Mr. Murray's young people were present, as well as the entire
D'Israeli family and Crofton Croker. After a merry game of Pope Joan, Mr. Murray presented
each of the company with a pocket-book as a New Year's gift. A special bowl of punch was brewed
for the occasion, and, while it was being prepared, Mr. Isaac D'Israeli took up Crofton Croker's
pocket-book, and with his pencil wrote the following impromptu words:

"Gigantic Belzoni at Pope Joan and tea. What a group of mere puppets we seem beside thee; Which,
our kind host perceiving, with infinite zest, Gives us Punch at our supper, to keep up the jest."

The lines were pronounced to be excellent, and Belzoni, wishing to share in the enjoyment,
desired to see the words. He read the last line twice over, and then, his eyes flashing fire,
he exclaimed, "I am betrayed!" and suddenly left the room. Crofton Croker called upon Belzoni
to ascertain the reason for his abrupt departure from Mr. Murray's, and was informed that he
considered the lines to be an insulting allusion to his early career as a showman. Croker assured
him that neither Murray nor D'Israeli knew anything of his former life; finally he prevailed
upon Belzoni to accompany him to Mr. Murray's, who for the first time learnt that the celebrated
Egyptian explorer had many years before been an itinerant exhibitor in England.

In 1823 Belzoni set out for Morocco, intending to penetrate thence to Eastern Africa; he wrote
to Mr. Murray from Gibraltar, thanking him for many acts of kindness, and again from Tangier.

M.G. Belzoni to John Murray.

April 10, 1823.

"I have just received permission from H.M. the Emperor of Morocco to go to Fez, and am in hopes
to obtain his approbation to enter the desert along with the caravan to Soudan. The letter
of introduction from Mr. Wilmot to Mr. Douglas has been of much importance to me; this gentleman
fortunately finds pleasure in affording me all the assistance in his power to promote my wishes,
a circumstance which I have not been accustomed to meet in some other parts of Africa. I shall
do myself the pleasure to acquaint you of my further progress at Fez, if not from some other
part of Morocco."

Belzoni would appear to have changed his intention, and endeavoured to penetrate to Timbuctoo
from Benin, where, however, he was attacked by dysentery, and died a short time after the above
letter was written.

Like many other men of Herculean power, he was not eager to exhibit his strength; but on one
occasion he gave proof of it in the following circumstances. Mr. Murray had asked him to accompany
him to the Coronation of George IV. They had tickets of admittance to Westminster Hall, but
on arriving there they found that the sudden advent of Queen Caroline, attended by a mob claiming
admission to the Abbey, had alarmed the authorities, who caused all the doors to be shut. That
by which they should have entered was held close and guarded by several stalwart janitors.
Belzoni thereupon advanced to the door, and, in spite of the efforts of these guardians, including
Tom Crib and others of the pugilistic corps who had been engaged as constables, opened it with
ease, and admitted himself and Mr. Murray.

In 1820 Mr. Murray was invited to publish "The Fall of Jerusalem, a Sacred Tragedy," by the
Rev. H.H. Milman, afterwards Dean of St. Paul's. As usual, he consulted Mr. Gifford, whose
opinion was most favourable. "I have been more and more struck," he said, "with the innumerable
beauties in Milman's 'Fall of Jerusalem.'"

Mr. Murray requested the author to state his own price for the copyright, and Mr. Milman wrote:

"I am totally at a loss to fix one. I think I might decide whether an offer were exceedingly
high or exceedingly low, whether a Byron or Scott price, or such as is given to the first essay
of a new author. Though the 'Fall of Jerusalem' might demand an Israelitish bargain, yet I
shall not be a Jew further than my poetry. Make a liberal offer, such as the prospect will
warrant, and I will at once reply, but I am neither able nor inclined to name a price.... As
I am at present not very far advanced in life, I may hereafter have further dealings with the
Press, and, of course, where I meet with liberality shall hope to make a return in the same
way. It has been rather a favourite scheme of mine, though this drama cannot appear on the
boards, to show it before it is published to my friend Mrs. Siddons, who perhaps might like
to read it, either at home or abroad. I have not even hinted at such a thing to her, so that
this is mere uncertainty, and, before it is printed, it would be in vain to think of it, as
the old lady's eyes and MS. could never agree together.

"P.S.--I ought to have said that I am very glad of Aristarchus' [Grifford's] approval. And,
by the way, I think, if I help you in redeeming your character from 'Don Juan,' the 'Hetaerse'
in the Quarterly, [Footnote: Mitchell's article on "Female Society in Greece," Q.R. No. 43.]
etc., you ought to estimate that very highly."

Mr. Murray offered Mr. Milman five hundred guineas for the copyright, to which the author replied:
"Your offer appears to me very fair, and I shall have no scruple in acceding to it."

Milman, in addition to numerous plays and poems, became a contributor to the Quarterly, and
one of Murray's historians. He wrote the "History of the Jews" and the "History of Christianity";
he edited Gibbon and Horace, and continued during his lifetime to be one of Mr. Murray's most
intimate and attached friends.

In 1820 we find the first mention of a name afterwards to become as celebrated as any of those
with which Mr. Murray was associated. Owing to the warm friendship which existed between the
Murrays and the D'Israelis, the younger members of both families were constantly brought together
on the most intimate terms. Mr. Murray was among the first to mark the abilities of the boy,
Benjamin Disraeli, and, as would appear from the subjoined letter, his confidence in his abilities
was so firm that he consulted him as to the merits of a MS. when he had scarcely reached his
eighteenth year.

Mr. Benjamin Disraeli to John Murray. August 1822.

Dear Sir,

I ran my eye over three acts of "Wallace," [Footnote: "Wallace: a Historical Tragedy," in five
acts, was published in 1820. Joanna Baillie spoke of the author, C.E. Walker, as "a very young
and promising dramatist."] and, as far as I could form an opinion, I cannot conceive these
acts to be as effective on the stage as you seemed to expect. However, it is impossible to
say what a very clever actor like Macready may make of some of the passages. Notwithstanding
the many erasures the diction is still diffuse, and sometimes languishing, though not inelegant.
I cannot imagine it a powerful work as far as I have read. But, indeed, running over a part
of a thing with people talking around is too unfair. I shall be anxious to hear how it succeeds.
Many thanks, dear sir, for lending it to me. Your note arrives. If on so slight a knowledge
of the play I could venture to erase either of the words you set before me, I fear it would
be Yes, but I feel cruel and wicked in saying so. I hope you got your dinner in comfort when
you got rid of me and that gentle pyramid [Belzoni].

Yours truly,

B.D.

Mr. Southey was an indefatigable and elaborate correspondent, and, as his letters have already
been published, it is not necessary to quote them. He rarely wrote to Mr. Gifford, who cut
down his articles, and, as Southey insisted, generally emasculated them by omitting the best
portions. Two extracts may be given from those written to Mr. Murray in 1820, which do not
seem yet to have been given to the world, the first in reference to a proposed Life of Warren
Hastings:

"It appears to me that the proper plan will be to publish a selection from Warren Hastings's
papers and correspondence, accompanying it with his Life. That Life requires a compendious
view of our Indian history down to the time of his administration, and in its progress it embraces
the preservation of our Indian empire and the establishment of the existing system. Something
must be interwoven concerning the history of the native powers, Mahomedan, Moor, Mahratta,
etc., and their institutions. I see how all this is to be introduced, and see also that no
subject can afford materials more important or more various. And what a pleasure it will be
to read the triumph of such a man as Hastings over the tremendous combination of his persecutors
at home! I had a noble catastrophe in writing the Life of Nelson, but the latter days of Hastings
afford a scene more touching, and perhaps more sublime, because it is more uncommon. Let me
have the works of Orme and Bruce and Mill, and I will set apart a portion of every day to the
course of reading, and begin my notes accordingly."

The second touches on his perennial grievance against Gifford:

"You will really serve as well as oblige me, if you will let me have a duplicate set of proofs
of my articles, that I may not lose the passages which Mr. Gifford, in spite of repeated promises,
always will strike out. In the last paper, among many other mutilations, the most useful fact
in the essay, for its immediate practical application, has been omitted, and for no imaginable
reason (the historical fact that it was the reading a calumnious libel which induced Felton
to murder the Duke of Buckingham). When next I touch upon public affairs for you, I will break
the Whigs upon the wheel."

Mrs. Graham, afterwards Lady Callcott, then the wife of Captain Graham, R.N., an authoress
and friend of the Murray family, wrote to introduce Mr. (afterwards Sir) Charles Eastlake,
who had translated Baron Bartholdy's "Memoirs of the Carbonari."

Mrs. Graham to John Murray.

February 24, 1821.

All great men have to pay the penalty of their greatness, and you, arch-bookseller as you are,
must now and then be entreated to do many things you only half like to do. I shall half break
my heart if you and Bartholdy do not agree.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, whether you publish "The Carbonari" or not, I bespeak your acquaintance for the translator,
Mr. Eastlake. I want him to see the sort of thing that one only sees in your house, at your
morning levées--the traffic of mind and literature, if I may call it so. To a man who has lived
most of his grown-up life out of England, it is both curious and instructive, and I wish for
this advantage for my friend. And in return for what I want you to benefit him, by giving him
the entrée to your rooms, I promise you great pleasure in having a gentleman of as much modesty
as real accomplishment, and whose taste and talents as an artist must one day place him very
high among our native geniuses. You and Mrs. Murray would, I am sure, love him as much as Captain
Graham and I do. We met him at Malta on his return from Athens, where he had been with Lord
Ruthven's party. Thence he went to Sicily with Lord Leven. In Rome, we lived in the same house.
He was with us at Poli, and last summer at Ascoli with Lady Westmoreland. I have told him that,
when he goes to London, he must show you two beautiful pictures he has done for Lord Guilford,
views taken in Greece. You will see that his pictures and Lord Byron's poetry tell the same
story of the "Land of the Unforgotten Brave." I envy you your morning visitors. I am really
hungry for a new book. If you are so good as to send me any provision fresh from Murray's shambles,
as Mr. Rose says, address it to me, care of Wm. Eastlake, Esq., Plymouth. Love to Mrs. Murray
and children.

Yours very gratefully and truly,

MARIA GRAHAM.

P.S.--If Graham has a ship given him at the time, and at the station promised, I shall be obliged
to visit London towards the end of March or the beginning of April.

Mr. Murray accepted and published the book.

Lord Byron's works continued to be in great demand at home, and were soon pounced upon by the
pirates in America and France. The Americans were beyond Murray's reach, but the French were,
to a certain extent, in his power. Galignani, the Paris publisher, wrote to Lord Byron, requesting
the assignment to him of the right of publishing his poetry in France. Byron replied that his
poems belonged to Mr. Murray, and were his "property by purchase, right, and justice," and
referred Galignani to him, "washing his hands of the business altogether." M. Galignani then
applied to Mr. Murray, who sent him the following answer:

John Murray to M. Galignani.

January 16, 1821.

SIR,

I have received your letter requesting me to assign to you exclusively the right of printing
Lord Byron's works in France. In answer I shall state what you do not seem to be aware of,
that for the copyright of these works you are printing for nothing, I have given the author
upwards of £10,000. Lord Byron has sent me the assignment, regularly made, and dated April
20, 1818; and if you will send me £250 I will make it over to you. I have just received a Tragedy
by Lord Byron, for the copyright of which I have paid £1,050, and also three new cantos of
"Don Juan," for which I have paid £2,100. What can you afford to give me for the exclusive
right of printing them in France upon condition that you receive them before any other bookseller?
Your early reply will oblige.

Your obedient Servant,

J. MURRAY.

M. Galignani then informed Mr. Murray that a pirated edition of Lord Byron's works had been
issued by another publisher, and was being sold for 10 francs; and that, if he would assign
him the new Tragedy and the new cantos of "Don Juan," he would pay him £100, and be at the
expense of the prosecution of the surreptitious publisher. But nothing was said about the payment
of £250 for the issue of Lord Byron's previous work.

Towards the end of 1821 Mr. Murray received a letter from Messrs. Longman & Co., intimating,
in a friendly way, "you will see in a day or two, in the newspapers, an advertisement of Mrs.
Rundell's improved edition of her 'Cookery Book,' which she has placed in our hands for publication."
Now, the "Domestic Cookery," as enlarged and improved by Mr. Murray, was practically a new
work, and one of his best properties. When he heard of Mrs. Rundell's intention to bring out
her Cookery Book through the Longmans, he consulted his legal adviser, Mr. Sharon Turner, who
recommended that an injunction should at once be taken out to restrain the publication, and
retained Mr. Littledale and Mr. Serjeant Copley for Mr. Murray. The injunction was duly granted.

After some controversy and litigation the matter was arranged. Mr. Murray voluntarily agreed
to pay to Mrs. Rundell £2,000, in full of all claims, and her costs and expenses. The Messrs.
Longman delivered to Mr. Murray the stereotype plates of the Cookery Book, and stopped all
further advertisements of Mrs. Rundell's work. Mr. Sharon Turner, when writing to tell Mr.
Murray the result of his negotiations, concludes with the recommendation: "As Home and Shadwell
[Murray's counsel] took much pains, I think if you were to send them each a copy of the Cookery
Book, and (as a novelty) of 'Cain,' it would please them."

Moore, in his Diary, notes: [Footnote: "Moore: Memoirs, Journal, and Correspondence," v. p.
119.] "I called at Pickering's, in Chancery Lane, who showed me the original agreement between
Milton and Symonds for the payment of five pounds for 'Paradise Lost.' The contrast of this
sum with the £2,000 given by Mr. Murray for Mrs. Rundell's 'Cookery' comprises a history in
itself. Pickering, too, gave forty-five guineas for this agreement, nine times as much as the
sum given for the poem."

The book trade between England and America was in its infancy at the, time of which we are
now writing, and though Mr. Murray was frequently invited to publish American books, he had
considerable hesitation in accepting such invitations.

Mr. Washington Irving, who was already since 1807 favourably known as an author in America,
called upon Mr. Murray, and was asked to dine, as distinguished Americans usually were. He
thus records his recollections of the event in a letter to his brother Peter at Liverpool:

Mr. Washington Irving to Mr. Peter Irving.

August 19, 1817.

"I had a very pleasant dinner at Murray's. I met there D'Israeli and an artist [Brockedon]
just returned from Italy with an immense number of beautiful sketches of Italian scenery and
architecture. D'Israeli's wife and daughter came in in the course of the evening, and we did
not adjourn until twelve o'clock. I had a long tête-à-tête with old D'Israeli in a corner.
He is a very pleasant, cheerful old fellow, curious about America, and evidently tickled at
the circulation his works have had there, though, like most authors just now, he groans at
not being able to participate in the profits. Murray was very merry and loquacious. He showed
me a long letter from Lord Byron, who is in Italy. It is written with some flippancy, but is
an odd jumble. His Lordship has written some 104 stanzas of the fourth canto ('Childe Harold').
He says it will be less metaphysical than the last canto, but thinks it will be at least equal
to either of the preceding. Murray left town yesterday for some watering-place, so that I have
had no further talk with him, but am to keep my eye on his advertisements and write to him
when anything offers that I may think worth republishing in America. I shall find him a most
valuable acquaintance on my return to London."

A business in Liverpool, in which, with his brother, he was a partner, proved a failure, and
in 1818 he was engaged on his famous "Sketch Book," which he wrote in England, and sent to
his brother Ebenezer in New York to be published there. The work appeared in three parts in
the course of the year 1819. Several of the articles were copied in English periodicals and
were read with great admiration. A writer in Blackwood expressed surprise that Mr. Irving had
thought fit to publish his "Sketch Book" in America earlier than in Britain, and predicted
a large and eager demand for such a work. On this encouragement, Irving, who was still in England,
took the first three numbers, which had already appeared in America, to Mr. Murray, and left
them with him for examination and approval. Murray excused himself on the ground that he did
not consider the work in question likely to form the basis of "satisfactory accounts," and
without this he had no "satisfaction" in undertaking to publish.

Irving thereupon sought (but did not take) the advice of Sir W. Scott, and entered into an
arrangement with Miller of the Burlington Arcade, and in February 1820 the first four numbers
were published in a volume. Miller shortly after became bankrupt, the sale of the book (of
which one thousand had been printed) was interrupted, and Irving's hopes of profit were dashed
to the ground. [Footnote: Preface to the revised edition of "The Sketch Book."]

Irving, being greatly in want of money, offered to dispose of the work entirely to the publisher,
and Murray, though he had no legal protection for his purchase, not only gave him £200 for
it, but two months later he wrote to Irving, stating that his volumes had succeeded so much
beyond his commercial estimate that he begged he would do him the favour to draw on him at
sixty-five days for one hundred guineas in addition to the sum agreed upon. And again, eight
months later, Murray made Irving a second gratuitous contribution of a hundred pounds, to which
the author replied, "I never knew any one convey so much meaning in so concise and agreeable
a manner." The author's "Bracebridge Hall" and other works were also published by Mr. Murray.

In 1822 Irving, who liked to help his literary fellow-countrymen, tried to induce Mr. Murray
to republish James Fenimore Cooper's novels in England. Mr. Murray felt obliged to decline,
as he found that these works were pirated by other publishers; American authors were then beginning
to experience the same treatment in England which English authors have suffered in America.
The wonder was that Washington Irving's works so long escaped the same doom.

In 1819 Mr. Murray first made the acquaintance of Ugo Foscolo. A native of Zante, descended
from a Venetian family who had settled in the Ionian Islands, Foscolo studied at Padua, and
afterwards took up his residence at Venice. The ancient aristocracy of that city had been banished
by Napoleon Bonaparte, and the conqueror gave over Venice to Austria. Foscolo attacked Bonaparte
in his "Lettere di Ortis." After serving as a volunteer in the Lombard Legion through the disastrous
campaign of 1799, Foscolo, on the capitulation of Genoa, retired to Milan, where he devoted
himself to literary pursuits. He once more took service--under Napoleon--and in 1805 formed
part of the army of England assembled at Boulogne; but soon left the army, went to Pavia (where
he had been appointed Professor of Eloquence), and eventually at the age of forty took refuge
in England. Here he found many friends, who supported him in his literary efforts. Among others
he called upon Mr. Murray, who desired his co-operation in writing for the Quarterly. An article,
on "The Poems of the Italians" was his first contribution. Mr. Thomas Mitchell, the translator
of "Aristophanes," desired Mr. Murray to give Foscolo his congratulations upon his excellent
essay, as well as on his acquaintance with our language.

Mr. Thomas Mitchell to John Murray.

"The first time I had the pleasure of seeing M. Foscolo was at a table d'hôte at Berne. There
was something in his physiognomy which very much attracted nay notice; and, for some reason
or another, I thought that I seemed to be an object of his attention. At table, Foscolo was
seated next to a young Hanoverian, between whom and me a very learned conversation had passed
on the preceding evening, and a certain degree of acquaintance was cemented in consequence.
The table was that day graced with the appearance of some of the Court ladies of Stuttgard,
and all passed off with the decorum usually observed abroad, when suddenly, towards the conclusion
of the feast a violent hubbub was heard between M. Foscolo and his Hanoverian neighbour, who,
in angry terms and with violent gestures, respectively asserted the superior harmonies of Greek
and Latin. This ended with the former's suddenly producing a card, accompanied with the following
annunciation: 'Sir, my name is Ugo Foscolo; I am a native of Greece, and I have resided thirty
years in Italy; I therefore think I ought to know something of the matter. This card contains
my address, and if you have anything further to say, you know where I am to be found.' Whether
Foscolo's name or manner daunted the young Hanoverian, or whether he was only a bird of passage,
I don't know, but we saw nothing more of him after that day. Foscolo, after the ladies had
retired, made an apology, directed a good deal to me, who, by the forms of the place, happened
to be at the head of the table; a considerable degree of intimacy took place between us, and
an excellent man I believe him to be, in spite of these little ebullitions."

Ugo Foscolo, who was eccentric to an excess, and very extravagant, had many attached friends,
though he tried them sorely. To Mr. Murray he became one of the troubles of private as well
as publishing life. He had a mania for building, and a mania for ornamentation, but he was
very short of money for carrying out his freaks. He thought himself at the same time to be
perfectly moderate, simple, and sweet-tempered. He took a house in South Bank, Regent's Park,
which he named Digamma Cottage--from his having contributed to the Quarterly Review an article
on the Digamma--and fitted it up in extravagant style.

Foscolo could scarcely live at peace with anybody, and, as the result of one of his numerous
altercations, he had to fight a duel. "We are," Lady Dacre wrote to Murray (December 1823),
"to have the whole of Foscolo's duel to-morrow. He tells me that it is not about a 'Fair lady':
thank heaven!"

Foscolo was one of Mr. Murray's inveterate correspondents--about lectures, about translations,
about buildings, about debts, about loans, and about borrowings. On one occasion Mr. Murray
received from him a letter of thirteen pages quarto. A few sentences of this may be worth quoting:

Mr. Foscolo to John Murray.

SOUTH BANK, August 20, 1822.

"During six years (for I landed in England the 10th September, 1816) I have constantly laboured
under difficulties the most distressing; no one knows them so well as yourself, because no
one came to my assistance with so warm a friendship or with cares so constant and delicate.
My difficulties have become more perplexing since the Government both of the Ionian Islands
and Italy have precluded even the possibility of my returning to the countries where a slender
income would be sufficient, and where I would not be under the necessity of making a degrading
use of my faculties. I was born a racehorse; and after near forty years of successful racing,
I am now drawing the waggon--nay, to be the teacher of French to my copyists, and the critic
of English to my translators!-to write sophistry about criticism, which I always considered
a sort of literary quackery, and to put together paltry articles for works which I never read.
Indeed, if I have not undergone the doom of almost all individuals whose situation becomes
suddenly opposed to their feelings and habits, and if I am not yet a lunatic, I must thank
the mechanical strength of my nerves. My nerves, however, will not withstand the threatenings
of shame which I have always contemplated with terror. Time and fortune have taught me to meet
all other evils with fortitude; but I grow every day more and more a coward at the idea of
the approach of a stigma on my character; and as now I must live and die in England, and get
the greater part of my subsistence from my labour, I ought to reconcile, if not labour with
literary reputation, at least labour and life with a spotless name."

He then goes on to state that his debts amount to £600 or thereabouts, including a sum of £20
which he owed to Mr. Murray himself. Then he must have the money necessary for his subsistence,
and he "finds he cannot live on less than £400 per annum."

"My apartments," he continues, "decently furnished, encompass me with an atmosphere of ease
and respectability; and I enjoy the illusion of not having fallen into the lowest circumstances.

I always declare that I will die like a gentleman, on a decent bed, surrounded by casts (as
I cannot buy the marbles) of the Venuses, of the Apollos, and of the Graces, and the busts
of great men; nay, even among flowers, and, if possible, with some graceful innocent girl playing
an old pianoforte in an adjoining room. And thus dies the hero of my novel. Far from courting
the sympathy of mankind, I would rather be forgotten by posterity than give it the gratification
of ejaculating preposterous sighs because I died like Camoens and Tasso on the bed of an hospital.
And since I must be buried in your country, I am happy in having insured for me the possession
during the remains of my life of a cottage built after my plan, surrounded by flowering shrubs,
almost within the tumpikes of the town, and yet as quiet as a country-house, and open to the
free air. Whenever I can freely dispose of a hundred pounds, I will also build a small dwelling
for my corpse, under a beautiful Oriental plane-tree, which I mean to plant next November,
and cultivate con amore. So far I am indeed an epicure; in all other things I am the most moderate
of men."

The upshot of the letter is, that he wishes Mr. Murray to let him have £1,000, to be repaid
in five years, he meanwhile writing articles for the Quarterly--one-half of the payment to
be left with the publisher, and the remaining half to be added to his personal income. He concludes:

"In seeking out a way of salvation, I think it incumbent on me to prevent the tyranny of necessity,
that I might not be compelled by it to endanger my character and the interest of a friend whose
kindness I have always experienced, and whose assistance I am once more obliged to solicit."

Mr. Murray paid off some of his more pressing embarrassments--£30 to Messrs. Bentley for bills
not taken up; £33 7s. to Mr. Kelly the printer; £14 to Mr. Antonini; and £50 to Foscolo's builder--besides
becoming security for £300 to his bankers (with whom Foscolo did business), in order to ensure
him a respite for six months. On the other hand, Foscolo agreed to insure his life for £600
as a sort of guarantee. "Was ever" impecunious author "so trusted before"? At this crisis in
his affairs many friends came about him and took an interest in the patriot; Mr. Hallam and
Mr. Wilbraham offered him money, but he would not accept "gratuities" from them, though he
had no objection to accepting their "loans." Arrangements were then made for Foscolo to deliver
a series of lectures on Italian Literature. Everything was settled, the day arrived, the room
was crowded with a distinguished assembly, when at the last moment Foscolo appeared without
his MS., which he had forgotten.

The course of lectures, however, which had been designed to relieve him from the pressure of
his debts, proved successful, and brought him in, it is said, as much as £1,000; whereupon
he immediately set to work to squander his earnings by giving a public breakfast to his patrons,
for which purpose he thought it incumbent on him, amongst other expenses, to make a new approach
and a gravelled carriage road to Digamma Cottage.

Ugo Foscolo lived on credit to the end of his life, surrounded by all that was luxurious and
beautiful. How he contrived it, no one knew, for his resources remained at the lowest ebb.
Perhaps his friends helped him, for English Liberals of good means regarded him as a martyr
in the cause of freedom, one who would never bow the knee to Baal, and who had dared the first
Napoleon when his very word was law. But Foscolo's friends without doubt became tired of his
extravagance and his licentious habits, and fell away from him. Disease at last found him out;
he died of dropsy at Turnham Green, near Hammersmith, in 1827, when only in the fiftieth year
of his age, and was buried in Chiswick churchyard; but in June 1871 his body was exhumed and
conveyed to Florence, where he was buried in Santa Croce, between the tomb of Alfieri and the
monument of Dante.

Lady Caroline Lamb had continued to keep up her intimacy with Mr. Murray; and now that she
was preparing a new work for the press, her correspondence increased. While he was at Wimbledon
during summer, she occasionally met literary friends at his house. She had already published
"Glenarvon," the hero of which was supposed to represent Lord Byron, and was now ready with
"Penruddock." "I am in great anxiety," she wrote to Mr. Murray, "about your not informing me
what Gifford says. I think it might be a civil way of giving me my death-warrant--if 'Penruddock'
does not."

Whether the criticism of Mr. Gifford was too severe, or whether Mr. Murray was so much engaged
in business and correspondence as to take no notice of Lady Caroline Lamb's communication,
does not appear; but she felt the neglect, and immediately followed it up with another letter
as follows:

Lady Caroline Lamb to John Murray.

December 8, 1822.

MY DEAR AND MOST OBSTINATELY SILENT SIR,

From one until nine upon Tuesday I shall be at Melbourne House waiting for you; but if you
wish to see the prettiest woman in England,--besides myself and William--be at Melbourne House
at quarter to six, at which hour we dine; and if you will come at half-past one, or two, or
three, to say you will dine and to ask me to forgive your inexorable and inhuman conduct, pray
do, for I arrive at twelve in that said home and leave it at nine the ensuing morning. What
can have happened to you that you will not write?

The following letter from William Lamb (afterwards Lord Melbourne), the long-suffering and
generous husband of this wayward lady, refers to a novel entitled "Ada Reis."

The Honble. William Lamb to John Murray.

December 20, 1822.

"The incongruity of, and objections to, the story of 'Ada Reis' can only be got over by power
of writing, beauty of sentiment, striking and effective situation, etc. If Mr. Gifford thinks
there is in the first two volumes anything of excellence sufficient to overbalance their manifest
faults, I still hope that he will press upon Lady Caroline the absolute necessity of carefully
reconsidering and revising the third volume, and particularly the conclusion of the novel.

"Mr. Gifford, I dare say, will agree with me that since the time of Lucian all the representations
of the infernal regions, which have been attempted by satirical writers, such as 'Fielding's
Journey from this World to the Next,' have been feeble and flat. The sketch in "Ada Reis" is
commonplace in its observations and altogether insufficient, and it would not do now to come
with a decisive failure in an attempt of considerable boldness. I think, if it were thought
that anything could be done with the novel, and that the faults of its design and structure
can be got over, that I could put her in the way of writing up this part a little, and giving
it something of strength, spirit, and novelty, and of making it at once more moral and more
interesting. I wish you would communicate these my hasty suggestions to Mr. Gifford, and he
will see the propriety of pressing Lady Caroline to take a little more time to this part of
the novel. She will be guided by his authority, and her fault at present is to be too hasty
and too impatient of the trouble of correcting and recasting what is faulty."

"Ada Reis" was published in March 1823.

Another of England's Prime Ministers, Lord John Russell, had in contemplation a History of
Europe, and consulted Mr. Murray on the subject. A first volume, entitled "The Affairs of Europe,"
was published without the author's name on the title-page, and a few years later another volume
was published, but it remained an unfinished work. Lord John was an ambitious and restless
author; without steady perseverance in any branch of literature; he went from poems to tragedies,
from tragedies to memoirs, then to history, tales, translations of part of the "Odyssey," essays
(by the Gentleman who left his Lodgings), and then to memoirs and histories again. Mr. Croker
said of his "Don Carlos": "It is not easy to find any poetry, or even oratory, of the present
day delivered with such cold and heavy diction, such distorted tropes and disjointed limbs
of similes worn to the bones long ago."

Another work that excited greater interest than Lord John Russell's anonymous history was Mr.
James Morier's "Hajji Baba." Mr. Morier had in his youth travelled through the East, especially
in Persia, where he held a post under Sir Gore Ouseley, then English Ambassador. On his return
to England, he published accounts of his travels; but his "Hajji Baba" was more read than any
other of his works. Sir Walter Scott was especially pleased with it, and remarked that "Hajji
Baba" might be termed the Oriental "Gil Bias." Mr. Morier afterwards published "The Adventures
of Hajji Baba in England," as well as other works of an Eastern character. The following letter,
written by the Persian Envoy in England, Miiza Abul Hassan, shows the impression created by
English society on a foreigner in April 1824:

Letter from the Persian Envoy, Mirza Abul Hassan, to the London Gentleman without, who lately
wrote letter to him and ask very much to give answer.

April 3, 1824.

SIR, MY LORD,

When you write to me some time ago to give my thought of what I see good and bad this country,
that time I not speak English very well. Now I read, I write much little better. Now I give
to you my think. In this country bad not too much, everything very good. But suppose I not
tell something little bad, then you say I tell all flattery--therefore I tell most bad thing.
I not like such crowd in evening party every night. In cold weather not very good, now hot
weather, much too bad. I very much astonish every day now much hot than before, evening parties
much crowd than before. Pretty beautiful ladies come sweat, that not very good. I always afraid
some old lady in crowd come dead, that not very good, and spoil my happiness. I think old ladies
after 85 years not come to evening party, that much better. Why for take so much trouble? Some
other thing rather bad. Very beautiful young lady she got ugly fellow for husband, that not
very good, very shocking. I ask Sr Gore [Sir Gore Ouseley] why for this. He says me--"perhaps
he very good man, not handsome; no matter, perhaps he got too much money, perhaps got title."
I say I not like that, all very shocking. This all bad I know. Now I say good. English people
all very good people. All very happy. Do what they like, say what like, write in newspaper
what like. I love English people very much, they very civil to me. I tell my King English love
Persian very much. English King best man in world, he love his people very good much; he speak
very kind to me, I love him very much. Queen very best woman I ever saw. Prince of Wales such
a fine elegant beautiful man. I not understand English enough proper to praise him, he too
great for my language. I respect him same as my own King. I love him much better, his manner
all same as talisman and charm. All the Princes very fine men, very handsome men, very sweet
words, very affable. I like all too much. I think the ladies and gentlemen this country most
high rank, high honour, very rich, except two or three most good, very kind to inferior peoples.
This very good. I go to see Chelsea. All old men sit on grass in shade of fine tree, fine river
run by, beautiful place, plenty to eat, drink, good coat, everything very good. Sir Gore he
tell me King Charles and King Jame. I say Sir Gore, They not Musselman, but I think God love
them very much. I think God he love the King very well for keeping up that charity. Then I
see one small regiment of children go to dinner, one small boy he say thanks to God for eat,
for drink, for clothes, other little boys they all answer Amen. Then I cry a little, my heart
too much pleased. This all very good for two things--one thing, God very much please; two things,
soldiers fight much better, because see their good King take care of old wounded fathers and
little children. Then I go to Greenwich, that too good place, such a fine sight make me a little
sick for joy. All old men so happy, eat dinner, so well, fine house, fine beds--all very good.
This very good country. English ladies very handsome, very beautiful. I travel great deal.
I go Arabia, I go Calcutta, Hyderabad, Poonah, Bombay, Georgia, Armenia, Constantinople, Malta,
Gibraltar. I see best Georgia, Circassian, Turkish, Greek ladies, but nothing not so beautiful
as English ladies, all very clever, speak French, speak English, speak Italian, play music
very well, sing very good. Very glad for me if Persian ladies like them. But English ladies
speak such sweet words. I think tell a little story--that not very good.

One thing more I see but I not understand that thing good or bad. Last Thursday I see some
fine horses, fine carriages, thousand people go to look that carriages. I ask why for? They
say me, that gentleman on boxes they drive their own carriages. I say why for take so much
trouble? They say me he drive very well; that very good thing. It rain very hard, some lord
some gentleman he get very wet. I say why he not go inside? They tell me good coachman not
mind get wet every day, will be much ashamed if go inside; that I not understand.

Sir, my Lord, good-night,

ABUL HASSAN.

Mr. Murray invariably consulted Mr. Barrow as to any works on voyages or travels he was required
to publish, and found him a faithful adviser. The following expression of opinion, from one
with so large an experience, is interesting:

Mr. J. Barrow to John Murray.

March 28, 1823.

"I need not tell you that caprice rather than merit governs the sale of a work. If instances
are wanting, I might quote those of Belzoni and Hamilton. [Footnote: This reference probably
refers to Walter Hamilton's "Description of Hindostan and adjacent Countries," published a
few years before.] The first absolute trumpery when put in competition with the second; yet
the former, I believe, sold about ten times the number of the latter."

Another little book published about this time has a curious history, and illustrates the lottery
of book publishing. Mrs. Markham's [Footnote: This lady's real name was Mrs. Penrose.] "History
of England" was first published by Constable, but it fell still-born from the press. Mr. Murray,
discerning the merit of the work in 1824, bought the remainder of 333 copies from Constable,
and had it revised, corrected, and enlarged, and brought out in an entirely new form. He placed
it in his list of school books, and pushed it among the teachers throughout the country, until
at length it obtained a very large and regular circulation. The book has subsequently undergone
frequent revision, and down to the present date it continues to be a great favourite, especially
in ladies' schools.

CHAPTER XXIII

GIFFORD'S RETIREMENT FROM THE EDITORSHIP OF THE "QUARTERLY"--AND DEATH

It had for some time been evident, as has been shown in a previous chapter, that Gifford was
becoming physically incapable of carrying on the Editorship of the Quarterly Review, but an
occasional respite from the pressure of sickness, as well as his own unwillingness to abandon
his connection with a work which he regarded with paternal affection, and Murray's difficulty
in finding a worthy successor, combined to induce him to remain at his post.

He accordingly undertook to carry on his editorial duties till the publication of the 60th
number, aided and supported by the active energy of Barrow and Croker, who, in conjunction
with the publisher, did most of the necessary drudgery.

In December 1823 Canning had written to say that he was in bed with the gout; to this Gifford
replied:

MY DEAR CANNING,

I wish you had a pleasanter bedfellow; but here am I on the sofa with a cough, and a very disagreeable
associate I find it. Old Moore, I think, died all but his voice, and my voice is nearly dead
before me; in other respects, I am much as I was when you saw me, and this weather is in my
favour.... I have promised Murray to try to carry on the Review to the 60th number; the 58th
is now nearly finished. This seems a desperate promise, and beyond it I will not, cannot go;
for, at best, as the old philosopher said, I am dying at my ease, as my complaint has taken
a consumptive turn. The vultures already scent the carcase, and three or four Quarterly Reviews
are about to start. One is to be set up by Haygarth, whom I think I once mentioned to you as
talked of to succeed me, but he is now in open hostility to Murray; another is to be called
the Westminster Quarterly Review, and will, if I may judge from the professions of impartiality,
be a decided Opposition Journal. They will all have their little day, perhaps, and then drop
into the grave of their predecessors. The worst is that we cannot yet light upon a fit and
promising successor.

Ever, my dear Canning,

Faithfully and affectionately yours,

WILLIAM GIFFORD.

This state of matters could not be allowed to go on much longer; sometimes a quarter passed
without a number appearing; in 1824 only two Quarterlies appeared--No. 60, due in January,
but only published in August; and No. 61, due in April, but published in December. An expostulation
came from Croker to Murray (January 23, 1824):

"Have you made up your mind about an editor? Southey has written to me on the subject, as if
you had, and as if he knew your choice; I do not like to answer him before I know what I am
to say. Will you dine at Kensington on Sunday at 6?"

Southey had long been meditating about the editorship. It never appears to have been actually
offered to him, but his name, as we have already seen, was often mentioned in connection with
it. He preferred, however, going on with his own works and remaining a contributor only. Politics,
too, may have influenced him, for we find him writing to Mr. Murray on December 15, 1824: "The
time cannot be far distant when the Q.R. must take its part upon a most momentous subject,
and choose between Mr. Canning and the Church. I have always considered it as one of the greatest
errors in the management of the Review that it should have been silent upon that subject so
long." So far as regarded his position as a contributor, Southey expressed his opinion to Murray
explicitly:

Mr. Southey to John Murray.

October 25, 1824.

"No future Editor, be he who he may, must expect to exercise the same discretion over my papers
which Mr. Gifford has done. I will at any time curtail what may be deemed too long, and consider
any objections that may be made, with a disposition to defer to them when it can be done without
sacrificing my own judgment upon points which may seem to me important. But my age and (I may
add without arrogance) the rank which I hold in literature entitle me to say that I will never
again write under the correction of any one."

Gifford's resignation is announced in the following letter to Canning (September 8, 1824):

Mr. W. Gifford to the Rt. Hon. G. Canning.

September 8, 1824.

MY DEAR CANNING,

I have laid aside my Regalia, and King Gifford, first of the name, is now no more, as Sir Andrew
Aguecheek says, "than an ordinary mortal or a Christian." It is necessary to tell you this,
for, with the exception of a dark cloud which has come over Murray's brow, no prodigies in
earth or air, as far as I have heard, have announced it.

It is now exactly sixteen years ago since your letter invited or encouraged me to take the
throne. I did not mount it without a trembling fit; but I was promised support, and I have
been nobly supported. As far as regards myself, I have borne my faculties soberly, if not meekly.
I have resisted, with undeviating firmness, every attempt to encroach upon me, every solicitation
of publisher, author, friend, or friend's friend, and turned not a jot aside for power or delight.
In consequence of this integrity of purpose, the Review has long possessed a degree of influence,
not only in this, but in other countries hitherto unknown; and I have the satisfaction, at
this late hour, of seeing it in its most palmy state. No number has sold better than the sixtieth.

But there is a sad tale to tell. For the last three years I have perceived the mastery which
disease and age were acquiring over a constitution battered and torn at the best, and have
been perpetually urging Murray to look about for a successor, while I begged Coplestone, Blomfield,
and others to assist the search. All has been ineffectual. Murray, indeed, has been foolishly
flattering himself that I might be cajoled on from number to number, and has not, therefore,
exerted himself as he ought to have done; but the rest have been in earnest. Do you know any
one? I once thought of Robert Grant; but he proved timid, and indeed his saintly propensities
would render him suspected. Reginald Heber, whom I should have preferred to any one, was snatched
from me for a far higher object.

I have been offered a Doctor's Degree, and when I declined it, on account of my inability to
appear in public, my own college (Exeter) most kindly offered to confer it on me in private;
that is, at the Rector's lodgings. This, too, I declined, and begged the Dean of Westminster,
who has a living in the neighbourhood, to excuse me as handsomely as he could. It might, for
aught I know, be a hard race between a shroud and a gown which shall get me first; at any rate,
it was too late for honours.

Faithfully and affectionately yours,

WILLIAM GIFFORD.

Mr. J.T. Coleridge had long been regarded as the most eligible successor to Mr. Gifford, and
on him the choice now fell. Mr. Murray forwarded the reply of Mr. Coleridge which contained
his acceptance of the editorship to Mr. Gifford, accompanied by the following note:

John Murray to Mr. Gifford.

WHITEHALL PLACE,

December 11, 1824.

MY DEAR SIR,

I shall not attempt to express the feelings with which I communicate the enclosed answer to
the proposal which I suspect it would have been thought contemptible in me any longer to have
delayed, and all that I can find to console myself with is the hope that I may be able to evince
my gratitude to you during life, and to your memory, if it so please the Almighty that I am
to be the survivor.

I am your obliged and faithful Servant,

JOHN MURRAY.

Mr. Murray lost no time in informing his friends of the new arrangement.

Gifford lived for about two years more, and continued to entertain many kind thoughts of his
friends and fellow-contributors: his intercourse with his publisher was as close and intimate
as ever to the end.

The last month of Gifford's life was but a slow dying. He was sleepless, feverish, oppressed
by an extreme difficulty of breathing, which often entirely deprived him of speech; and his
sight had failed. Towards the end of his life he would sometimes take up a pen, and after a
vain attempt to write, would throw it down, saying, "No, my work is done!" Even thinking caused
him pain. As his last hour drew near, his mind began to wander. "These books have driven me
mad," he once said, "I must read my prayers." He passed gradually away, his pulse ceasing to
beat five hours before his death. And then he slept out of life, on December 31, 1826, in his
68th year--a few months before the death of Canning.

Mr. Gifford desired that he should be buried in the ground attached to Grosvenor Chapel, South
Audley Street, where he had interred Annie Davies, his faithful old housekeeper, but his friends
made application for his interment in Westminster Abbey, which was acceded to, and he was buried
there accordingly on January 8, 1827, immediately under the monuments of Camden and Garrick.
He was much richer at the time of his death than he was at all aware of, for he was perfectly
indifferent about money. Indeed, he several times returned money to Mr. Murray, saying that
"he had been too liberal." He left £25,000 of personal property, a considerable part of which
he left to the relatives of Mr. Cookesley, the surgeon of Ashburton, who had been to him so
faithful and self-denying a friend in his early life. To Mr. Murray he left £100 as a memorial,
and also 500 guineas, to enable him to reimburse a military gentleman, to whom, jointly with
Mr. Cookesley, he appears to have been bound for that sum at a former period.

Gifford has earned, but it is now generally recognised that he has unjustly earned, the character
of a severe, if not a bitter critic. Possessing an unusually keen discernment of genuine excellence,
and a scathing power of denunciation of what was false or bad in literature, he formed his
judgments in accordance with a very high standard of merit. Sir Walter Scott said of his "Baviad
and Mæviad, that "he squashed at one blow a set of coxcombs who might have humbugged the world
long enough." His critical temper, however, was in truth exceptionally equable; regarding it
as his duty to encourage all that was good and elevating, and relentlessly to denounce all
that was bad or tended to lower the tone of literature, he conscientiously acted up to the
standard by which he judged others, and never allowed personal feeling to intrude upon his
official judgments.

It need scarcely be said that he proved himself an excellent editor, and that he entertained
a high idea of the duties of that office. William Jerdan, who was introduced to Gifford by
Canning, said: "I speak of him as he always was to me--full of gentleness, a sagacious adviser
and instructor, upon so comprehensive a scale, that I never met his superior among the men
of the age most renowned for vast information, and his captivating power in communicating it."
His sagacity and quickness of apprehension were remarkable, as was also the extraordinary rapidity
with which he was able to eviscerate a work, and summarize its contents in a few pages.

The number of articles which he himself wrote was comparatively small, for he confined himself
for the most part to revising and improving the criticisms of others, and though in thus dealing
with articles submitted to him he frequently erased what the writers considered some of their
best criticisms, he never lost their friendship and support. He disliked incurring any obligation
which might in any degree shackle the expression of his free opinions. In conjunction with
Mr. Murray, he laid down a rule, which as we have already seen was advocated by Scott, and
to which no exception has ever been made, that every writer in the Quarterly should receive
payment for his contribution. On one occasion, when a gentleman in office would not receive
the money, the article was returned. "I am not more certain of many conjectures," says Jerdan,
"than I am of this, that he never propagated a dishonest opinion nor did a dishonest act."

Gifford took no notice of the ferocious attacks made upon him by Hunt and Hazlitt. Holding,
as he did, that inviolable secrecy was one of the prime functions of an editor--though the
practice has since become very different--he never attempted to vindicate himself, or to reveal
the secret as to the writers of the reviews. In accordance with his plan of secrecy, he desired
Dr. Ireland, his executor, to destroy all confidential letters, especially those relating to
the Review, so that the names of the authors, as well as the prices paid for each article,
might never be known.

In society, of which he saw but little, except at Mr. Murray's, he was very entertaining. He
told a story remarkably well; and had an inexhaustible supply; the archness of his eyes and
countenance making them all equally good.

He had never been married; but although he had no children, he had an exceeding love for them.
When well, he delighted in giving juvenile parties, and rejoiced at seeing the children frisking
about in the happiness of youth--a contrast which threw the misery of his own early life into
strange relief. His domestic favourites were his dog and his cat, both of which he dearly loved.
He was also most kind and generous to his domestic servants; and all who knew him well, sorrowfully
lamented his death.

Many years after Gifford's death, a venomous article upon him appeared in a London periodical.
The chief point of this anonymous attack was contained in certain extracts from the writings
of Sir W. Scott, Southey, and other eminent contemporaries of Mr. Gifford. Mr. R.W. Hay, one
of the oldest contributors to the Quarterly, was at that time still living, and, in allusion
to the article in question, he wrote to Mr. Murray's son:

Mr. R.W. Hay to Mr. Murray.

July 7, 1856.

It is wholly worthless, excepting as it contains strictures of Sir W. Scott, Southey, and John
Wilson on the critical character of the late Wm. Gifford. I by no means subscribe to all that
is said by these distinguished individuals on the subject, and I cannot help suspecting that
the high station in literature which they occupied rendered them more than commonly sensitive
to the corrections and erasures which were proposed by the editor. Sir Walter (great man as
he was) was perfectly capable of writing so carelessly as to require correction, and both Southey
and John Wilson might occasionally have brought forth opinions, on political and other matters,
which were not in keeping with the general tone of the Quarterly Review. That poor Gifford
was deformed in figure, feeble in health, unhappily for him there can be no denying, but that
he had any pleasure in tormenting, as asserted by some, that he indulged in needless criticism
without any regard to the feelings of those who were under his lash, I am quite satisfied cannot
justly be maintained. In my small dealings with the Review, I only found the editor most kind
and considerate. His amendments and alterations I generally at once concurred in, and I especially
remember in one of the early articles, that he diminished the number of Latin quotations very
much to its advantage; that his heart was quite in the right place I have had perfect means
of knowing from more than one circumstance, e.g., his anxiety for the welfare of his friend
Hoppner the painter's children was displayed in the variety of modes which he adopted to assist
them, and when John Gait was sorely maltreated in the Review in consequence of his having attributed
to me, incorrectly, an article which occasioned his wrath and indignation, and afterwards was
exposed to many embarrassments in life, Gifford most kindly took up his cause, and did all
he could to further the promotion of his family. That our poor friend should have been exposed
throughout the most part of his life to the strong dislike of the greatest part of the community
is not unnatural. As the redacteur of the Anti-Jacobin, etc., he, in the latter part of the
last century, drew upon himself the hostile attacks of all the modern philosophers of the age,
and of all those who hailed with applause the dawn of liberty in the French Revolution; as
editor of the Quarterly Review, he acquired in addition to the former hosts of enemies, the
undisguised hatred of all the Whigs and Liberals, who were for making peace with Bonaparte,
and for destroying the settled order of things in this country. In the present generation,
when the feeling of national hatred against France has entirely subsided, and party feelings
have so much gone by that no man can say to which party any public man belongs, it is impossible
for anyone to comprehend the state of public feeling which prevailed during the great war of
the Revolution, and for some years after its termination. Gifford was deeply imbued with all
the sentiments on public matters which prevailed in his time, and, as some people have a hatred
of a cat, and others of a toad, so our friend felt uneasy when a Frenchman was named; and buckled
on his armour of criticism whenever a Liberal or even a Whig was brought under his notice;
and although in the present day there appears to be a greater indulgence to crime amongst judges
and juries, and perhaps a more lenient system of criticism is adopted by reviewers, I am not
sure that any public advantage is gained by having Ticket of Leave men, who ought to be in
New South Wales, let loose upon the English world by the unchecked appearance of a vast deal
of spurious literature, which ought to have withered under the severe blasts of Criticism.

Believe yours very truly,

R.W. HAY.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE "REPRESENTATIVE"

Mr. Murray had for long been desirous of publishing a journal which should appear more frequently
than once a quarter, more especially after the discontinuance of his interest in Blackwood's
magazine. In 1825 he conceived the more ambitious design of publishing a daily morning paper,
a project now chiefly interesting from the fact that in this venture he had the assistance
of the future Lord Beaconsfield. The intimacy which existed between the Murrays and D'Israelis
had afforded Mr. Murray exceptional opportunities of forming an opinion of Benjamin's character,
and he saw with delight the rapidly developing capacities of his old friend's son. Even in
his eighteenth year Benjamin was consulted by Mr. Murray as to the merits of a MS., and two
years later he wrote a novel entitled "Aylmer Papillon," which did not see the light. He also
edited a "History of Paul Jones, Admiral in the Russian Navy," written by Theophilus Smart,
an American, and originally published in the United States.

Young Disraeli was already gifted with a power of influencing others, unusual in a man of his
age. He was eloquent, persuasive, and ingenious, and even then, as in future years, when he
became a leading figure in the political world, he had the power of drawing others over to
the views which he entertained, however different they might be from their own. Looking merely
to his literary career as a successful novel writer, his correspondence with Mr. Murray about
his proposed work of "Aylmer Papillon" is not without interest.

Mr. Benjamin Disraeli to John Murray.

May, 1824.

MY DEAR SIR,

Your very kind letter induces me to trouble you with this most trivial of trifles. My plan
has been in these few pages so to mix up any observations which I had to make on the present
state of society with the bustle and hurry of a story, that my satire should never be protruded
on my reader. If you will look at the last chapter but one, entitled "Lady Modeley's," you
will see what I mean better than I can express it. The first pages of that chapter I have written
in the same manner as I would a common novel, but I have endeavoured to put in action at the
end, the present fashion of getting on in the world. I write no humbug about "candidly giving
your opinion, etc., etc." You must be aware that you cannot do me a greater favour than refusing
to publish it, if you think it won't do; and who should be a better judge than yourself?

Believe me ever to be, my dear Sir,

Your most faithful and obliged,

B. DISRAELI. [Footnote: It will be observed that while the father maintained the older spelling
of the name, the son invariably writes it thus.]

P.S.--The second and the last chapters are unfortunately mislaid, but they have no particular
connection with the story. They are both very short, the first contains an adventure on the
road, and the last Mr. Papillon's banishment under the Alien Act from a ministerial misconception
of a metaphysical sonnet.

Thursday morn.: Excuse want of seal, as we're doing a bit of summer to-day, and there is not
a fire in the house.

FREDERICK PLACE, May 25, 1824.

1/2 past 1 o'clock A.M.

MY DEAR SIR,

The travels, to which I alluded this morning, would not bind up with "Parry," since a moderate
duodecimo would contain the adventures of a certain Mr. Aylmer Papillon in a terra incognita.
I certainly should never have mentioned them had I been aware that you were so very much engaged,
and I only allude to them once more that no confusion may arise from the half-explanations
given this morning. You will oblige me by not mentioning this to anybody.

Believe me to be, my dear Sir,

Your very faithful and obliged Servant,

B. DISRAELI.

FREDERICK PLACE, June 1824.

MY DEAR SIR,

Until I received your note this morning I had flattered myself that my indiscretion had been
forgotten. It is to me a matter of great regret that, as appears by your letter, any more trouble
should be given respecting this unfortunate MS., which will, most probably, be considered too
crude a production for the public, and which, if it is even imagined to possess any interest,
is certainly too late for this season, and will be obsolete in the next. I think, therefore,
that the sooner it be put behind the fire the better, and as you have some small experience
in burning MSS., [Footnote: Byron's Memoirs had been burnt at Albemarle Street during the preceding
month.] you will be perhaps so kind as to consign it to the flames. Once more apologising for
all the trouble I have given you, I remain ever, my dear Sir,

Yours very faithfully,

B. DISRAELI.

Murray had a special regard for the remarkable young man, and by degrees had thoroughly taken
him into his confidence; had related to him his experiences of men and affairs, and ere long
began to consult him about a variety of schemes and projects. These long confidential communications
led eventually to the suggestion of a much more ambitious and hazardous scheme, the establishment
of a daily paper in the Conservative interest. Daring as this must appear, Murray was encouraged
in it by the recollection of the success which had attended the foundation of the Quarterly,
and believed, rashly, that his personal energy and resources, aided by the abilities displayed
by his young counsellor, would lead to equal success. He evidently had too superficially weighed
the enormous difficulties of this far greater undertaking, and the vast difference between
the conduct of a Quarterly Review and a daily newspaper.

Intent upon gaining a position in the world, Benjamin Disraeli saw a prospect of advancing
his own interests-by obtaining the influential position of director of a Conservative daily
paper, which he fully imagined was destined to equal the Times, and he succeeded in imbuing
Murray with the like fallacious hopes.

The emancipation of the Colonies of Spain in South America in 1824-25 gave rise to much speculation
in the money market in the expectation of developing the resources of that country, especially
its mines. Shares, stocks, and loans were issued to an unlimited extent.

