Mrs. Haydon's girls were now only just beginning as young ladies, and so to get her niece,
Lena, married, was just then the most important thing that Mrs. Haydon had to do.

Mrs. Haydon had four years before gone to Germany to see her parents, and had taken the girls
with her. This visit had been for Mrs. Haydon most successful, though her children had not
liked it very well.

Mrs. Haydon was a good and generous woman, and she patronized her parents grandly, and all
the cousins who came from all about to see her. Mrs. Haydon's people were of the middling class
of farmers. They were not peasants, and they lived in a town of some pretension, but it all
seemed very poor and smelly to Mrs. Haydon's american born daughters.

Mrs. Haydon liked it all. It was familiar, and then here she was so wealthy and important.
She listened and decided, and advised all of her relations how to do things better. She arranged
their present and their future for them, and showed them how in the past they had been wrong
in all their methods.

Mrs. Haydon's only trouble was with her two daughters, whom she could not make behave well
to her parents. The two girls were very nasty to all their numerous relations. Their mother
could hardly make them kiss their grandparents, and every day the girls would get a scolding.
But then Mrs. Haydon was so very busy that she did not have time to really manage her stubborn
daughters.

These hard working, earth-rough german cousins were to these american born children, ugly and
dirty, and as far below them as were italian or negro workmen, and they could not see how their
mother could ever bear to touch them, and then all the women dressed so funny, and were worked
all rough and different.

The two girls stuck up their noses at them all, and always talked in English to each other
about how they hated all these people and how they wished their mother would not do so. The
girls could talk some German, but they never chose to use it.

It was her eldest brother's family that most interested Mrs. Haydon. Here there were eight
children, and out of the eight, five of them were girls.

Mrs. Haydon thought it would be a fine thing to take one of these girls back with her to Bridgepoint
and get her well started. Everybody liked that she should do so and they were all willing that
it should be Lena.

Lena was the second girl in her large family. She was at this time just seventeen years old.
Lena was not an important daughter in the family. She was always sort of dreamy and not there.
She worked hard and went very regularly at it, but even good work never seemed to bring her near.

Lena's age just suited Mrs. Haydon's purpose. Lena could first go out to service, and learn
how to do things, and then, when she was a little older, Mrs. Haydon could get her a good husband.
And then Lena was so still and docile, she would never want to do things her own way. And then,
too, Mrs. Haydon, with all her hardness had wisdom, and she could feel the rarer strain there
was in Lena.

Lena was willing to go with Mrs. Haydon. Lena did not like her german life very well. It was
not the hard work but the roughness that disturbed her. The people were not gentle, and the
men when they were glad were very boisterous, and would lay hold of her and roughly tease her.
They were good people enough around her, but it was all harsh and dreary for her.

Lena did not really know that she did not like it. She did not know that she was always dreamy
and not there. She did not think whether it would be different for her away off there in Bridgepoint.
Mrs. Haydon took her and got her different kinds of dresses, and then took her with them to
the steamer. Lena did not really know what it was that had happened to her.

Mrs. Haydon, and her daughters, and Lena traveled second class on the steamer. Mrs. Haydon's
daughters hated that their mother should take Lena. They hated to have a cousin, who was to
them, little better than a nigger, and then everybody on the steamer there would see her. Mrs.
Haydon's daughters said things like this to their mother, but she never stopped to hear them,
and the girls did not dare to make their meaning very clear. And so they could only go on hating
Lena hard, together. They could not stop her from going back with them to Bridgepoint.

Lena was very sick on the voyage. She thought, surely before it was over that she would die.
She was so sick she could not even wish that she had not started. She could not eat, she could
not moan, she was just blank and scared, and sure that every minute she would die. She could
not hold herself in, nor help herself in her trouble. She just staid where she had been put,
pale, and scared, and weak, and sick, and sure that she was going to die.

Mathilda and Bertha Haydon had no trouble from having Lena for a cousin on the voyage, until
the last day that they were on the ship, and by that time they had made their friends and could
explain.

Mrs. Haydon went down every day to Lena, gave her things to make her better, held her head
when it was needful, and generally was good and did her duty by her.

Poor Lena had no power to be strong in such trouble. She did not know how to yield to her sickness
nor endure. She lost all her little sense of being in her suffering. She was so scared, and
then at her best, Lena, who was patient, sweet and quiet, had not self-control, nor any active
courage.

Poor Lena was so scared and weak, and every minute she was sure that she would die.

After Lena was on land again a little while, she forgot all her bad suffering. Mrs. Haydon
got her the good place, with the pleasant unexacting mistress, and her children, and Lena began
to learn some English and soon was very happy and content.

All her Sundays out Lena spent at Mrs. Haydon's house. Lena would have liked much better to
spend her Sundays with the girls she always sat with, and who often asked her, and who teased
her and made a gentle stir within her, but it never came to Lena's unexpectant and unsuffering
german nature to do something different from what was expected of her, just because she would
like it that way better. Mrs. Haydon had said that Lena was to come to her house every other
Sunday, and so Lena always went there.

Mrs. Haydon was the only one of her family who took any interest in Lena. Mr. Haydon did not
think much of her. She was his wife's cousin and he was good to her, but she was for him stupid,
and a little simple, and very dull, and sure some day to need help and to be in trouble. All
young poor relations, who were brought from Germany to Bridgepoint were sure, before long,
to need help and to be in trouble.

The little Haydon boy was always very nasty to her. He was a hard child for any one to manage,
and his mother spoiled him very badly. Mrs. Haydon's daughters as they grew older did not learn
to like Lena any better. Lena never knew that she did not like them either. She did not know
that she was only happy with the other quicker girls, she always sat with in the park, and
who laughed at her and always teased her.

Mathilda Haydon, the simple, fat, blonde, older daughter felt very badly that she had to say
that this was her cousin Lena, this Lena who was little better for her than a nigger. Mathilda
was an overgrown, slow, flabby, blonde, stupid, fat girl, just beginning as a woman; thick
in her speech and dull and simple in her mind, and very jealous of all her family and of other
girls, and proud that she could have good dresses and new hats and learn music, and hating
very badly to have a cousin who was a common servant. And then Mathilda remembered very strongly
that dirty nasty place that Lena came from and that Mathilda had so turned up her nose at,
and where she had been made so angry because her mother scolded her and liked all those rough
cow-smelly people.

Then, too, Mathilda would get very mad when her mother had Lena at their parties, and when
she talked about how good Lena was, to certain german mothers in whose sons, perhaps, Mrs.
Haydon might find Lena a good husband. All this would make the dull, blonde, fat Mathilda very
angry: Sometimes she would get so angry that she would, in her thick, slow way, and with jealous
anger blazing in her light blue eyes, tell her mother that she did not see how she could like
that nasty Lena; and then her mother would scold Mathilda, and tell her that she knew her cousin
Lena was poor and Mathilda must be good to poor people.

Mathilda Haydon did not like relations to be poor. She told all her girl friends what she thought
of Lena, and so the girls would never talk to Lena at Mrs. Haydon's parties. But Lena in her
unsuffering and unexpectant patience never really knew that she was slighted. When Mathilda
was with her girls in the street or in the park and would see Lena, she always turned up her
nose and barely nodded to her, and then she would tell her friends how funny her mother was
to take care of people like that Lena, and how, back in Germany, all Lena's people lived just
like pigs.

The younger daughter, the dark, large, but not fat, Bertha Haydon, who was very quick in her
mind, and in her ways, and who was the favorite with her father, did not like Lena, either.
She did not like her because for her Lena was a fool and so stupid, and she would let those
Irish and Italian girls laugh at her and tease her, and everybody always made fun of Lena,
and Lena never got mad, or even had sense enough to know that they were all making an awful
fool of her.

Bertha Haydon hated people to be fools. Her father, too, thought Lena was a fool, and so neither
the father nor the daughter ever paid any attention to Lena, although she came to their house
every other Sunday.

Lena did not know how all the Haydons felt. She came to her aunt's house all her Sunday afternoons
that she had out, because Mrs. Haydon had told her she must do so. In the same way Lena always
saved all of her wages. She never thought of any way to spend it. The german cook, the good
woman who always scolded Lena, helped her to put it in the bank each month, as soon as she
got it. Sometimes before it got into the bank to be taken care of, somebody would ask Lena
for it. The little Haydon boy sometimes asked and would get it, and sometimes some of the girls,
the ones Lena always sat with, needed some more money; but the german cook, who always scolded
Lena, saw to it that this did not happen very often. When it did happen she would scold Lena
very sharply, and for the next few months she would not let Lena touch her wages, but put it
in the bank for her on the same day that Lena got it.

So Lena always saved her wages, for she never thought to spend them, and she always went to
her aunt's house for her Sundays because she did not know that she could do anything different.

Mrs. Haydon felt more and more every year that she had done right to bring Lena back with her,
for it was all coming out just as she had expected. Lena was good and never wanted her own
way, she was learning English, and saving all her wages, and soon Mrs. Haydon would get her
a good husband.

All these four years Mrs. Haydon was busy looking around among all the german people that she
knew for the right man to be Lena's husband, and now at last she was quite decided.

The man Mrs. Haydon wanted for Lena was a young german-american tailor, who worked with his
father. He was good and all the family were very saving, and Mrs. Haydon was sure that this
would be just right for Lena, and then too, this young tailor always did whatever his father
and his mother wanted.

This old german tailor and his wife, the father and the mother of Herman Kreder, who was to
marry Lena Mainz, were very thrifty, careful people. Herman was the only child they had left
with them, and he always did everything they wanted. Herman was now twenty-eight years old,
but he had never stopped being scolded and directed by his father and his mother. And now they
wanted to see him married.

Herman Kreder did not care much to get married. He was a gentle soul and a little fearful.
He had a sullen temper, too. He was obedient to his father and his mother. He always did his
work well. He often went out on Saturday nights and on Sundays, with other men. He liked it
with them but he never became really joyous. He liked to be with men and he hated to have women
with them. He was obedient to his mother, but he did not care much to get married.

Mrs. Haydon and the elder Kreders had often talked the marriage over. They all three liked
it very well. Lena would do anything that Mrs. Haydon wanted, and Herman was always obedient
in everything to his father and his mother. Both Lena and Herman were saving and good workers
and neither of them ever wanted their own way.

The elder Kreders, everybody knew, had saved up all their money, and they were hard, good german
people, and Mrs. Haydon was sure that with these people Lena would never be in any trouble.
Mr. Haydon would not say anything about it. He knew old Kreder had a lot of money and owned
some good houses, and he did not care what his wife did with that simple, stupid Lena, so long
as she would be sure never to need help or to be in trouble.

Lena did not care much to get married. She liked her life very well where she was working.
She did not think much about Herman Kreder. She thought he was a good man and she always found
him very quiet. Neither of them ever spoke much to the other. Lena did not care much just then
about getting married.

Mrs. Haydon spoke to Lena about it very often. Lena never answered anything at all. Mrs. Haydon
thought, perhaps Lena did not like Herman Kreder. Mrs. Haydon could not believe that any girl
not even Lena, really had no feeling about getting married.

Mrs. Haydon spoke to Lena very often about Herman. Mrs. Haydon sometimes got very angry with
Lena. She was afraid that Lena, for once, was going to be stubborn, now when it was all fixed
right for her to be married.

"Why you stand there so stupid, why don't you answer, Lena," said Mrs. Haydon one Sunday, at
the end of a long talking that she was giving Lena about Herman Kreder, and about Lena's getting
married to him.

"Yes ma'am," said Lena, and then Mrs. Haydon was furious with this stupid Lena. "Why don't
you answer with some sense, Lena, when I ask you if you don't like Herman Kreder. You stand
there so stupid and don't answer just like you ain't heard a word what I been saying to you.
I never see anybody like you, Lena. If you going to burst out at all, why don't you burst out
sudden instead of standing there so silly and don't answer. And here I am so good to you, and
find you a good husband so you can have a place to live in all your own. Answer me, Lena, don't
you like Herman Kreder? He is a fine young fellow, almost too good for you, Lena, when you
stand there so stupid and don't make no answer. There ain't many poor girls that get the chance
you got now to get married."

"Why, I do anything you say, Aunt Mathilda. Yes, I like him. He don't say much to me, but I
guess he is a good man, and I do anything you say for me to do."

"Well then Lena, why you stand there so silly all the time and not answer when I asked you."

"I didn't hear you say you wanted I should say anything to you. I didn't know you wanted me
to say nothing. I do whatever you tell me it's right for me to do. I marry Herman Kreder, if
you want me."

And so for Lena Mainz the match was made.

Old Mrs. Kreder did not discuss the matter with her Herman. She never thought that she needed
to talk such things over with him. She just told him about getting married to Lena Mainz who
was a good worker and very saving and never wanted her own way, and Herman made his usual little
grunt in answer to her.

Mrs. Kreder and Mrs. Haydon fixed the day and made all the arrangements for the wedding and
invited everybody who ought to be there to see them married.

In three months Lena Mainz and Herman Kreder were to be married.

Mrs. Haydon attended to Lena's getting all the things that she needed. Lena had to help a good
deal with the sewing. Lena did not sew very well. Mrs. Haydon scolded because Lena did not
do it better, but then she was very good to Lena, and she hired a girl to come and help her.
Lena still stayed on with her pleasant mistress, but she spent all her evenings and her Sundays
with her aunt and all the sewing.

Mrs. Haydon got Lena some nice dresses. Lena liked that very well. Lena liked having new hats
even better, and Mrs. Haydon had some made for her by a real milliner who made them very pretty.

Lena was nervous these days, but she did not think much about getting married. She did not
know really what it was, that, which was always coming nearer.

Lena liked the place where she was with the pleasant mistress and the good cook, who always
scolded, and she liked the girls she always sat with. She did not ask if she would like being
married any better. She always did whatever her aunt said and expected, but she was always
nervous when she saw the Kreders with their Herman. She was excited and she liked her new hats,
and everybody teased her and every day her marrying was coming nearer, and yet she did not
really know what it was, this that was about to happen to her.

Herman Kreder knew more what it meant to be married and he did not like it very well. He did
not like to see girls and he did not want to have to have one always near him. Herman always
did everything that his father and his mother wanted and now they wanted that he should be married.

Herman had a sullen temper; he was gentle and he never said much. He liked to go out with other
men, but he never wanted that there should be any women with them. The men all teased him about
getting married. Herman did not mind the teasing but he did not like very well the getting
married and having a girl always with him.

Three days before the wedding day, Herman went away to the country to be gone over Sunday.
He and Lena were to be married Tuesday afternoon. When the day came Herman had not been seen
or heard from.

The old Kreder couple had not worried much about it. Herman always did everything they wanted
and he would surely come back in time to get married. But when Monday night came, and there
was no Herman, they went to Mrs. Haydon to tell her what had happened.

Mrs. Haydon got very much excited. It was hard enough to work so as to get everything all ready,
and then to have that silly Herman go off that way, so no one could tell what was going to
happen. Here was Lena and everything all ready, and now they would have to make the wedding
later so that they would know that Herman would be sure to be there.

Mrs. Haydon was very much excited, and then she could not say much to the old Kreder couple.
She did not want to make them angry, for she wanted very badly now that Lena should be married
to their Herman.

At last it was decided that the wedding should be put off a week longer. Old Mr. Kreder would
go to New York to find Herman, for it was very likely that Herman had gone there to his married
sister.

Mrs. Haydon sent word around, about waiting until a week from that Tuesday, to everybody that
had been invited, and then Tuesday morning she sent for Lena to come down to see her.

Mrs. Haydon was very angry with poor Lena when she saw her. She scolded her hard because she
was so foolish, and now Herman had gone off and nobody could tell where he had gone to, and
all because Lena always was so dumb and silly. And Mrs. Haydon was just like a mother to her,
and Lena always stood there so stupid and did not answer what anybody asked her, and Herman
was so silly too, and now his father had to go and find him. Mrs. Haydon did not think that
any old people should be good to their children. Their children always were so thankless, and
never paid any attention, and older people were always doing things for their good. Did Lena
think it gave Mrs. Haydon any pleasure, to work so hard to make Lena happy, and get her a good
husband, and then Lena was so thankless and never did anything that anybody wanted. It was
a lesson to poor Mrs. Haydon not to do things any more for anybody. Let everybody take care
of themselves and never come to her with any troubles; she knew better now than to meddle to
make other people happy. It just made trouble for her and her husband did not like it. He always
said she was too good, and nobody ever thanked her for it, and there Lena was always standing
stupid and not answering anything anybody wanted. Lena could always talk enough to those silly
girls she liked so much, and always sat with, but who never did anything for her except to
take away her money, and here was her aunt who tried so hard and was so good to her and treated
her just like one of her own children and Lena stood there, and never made any answer and never
tried to please her aunt, or to do anything that her aunt wanted. "No, it ain't no use your
standin' there and cryin', now, Lena. Its too late now to care about that Herman. You should
have cared some before, and then you wouldn't have to stand and cry now, and be a disappointment
to me, and then I get scolded by my husband for taking care of everybody, and nobody ever thankful.
I am glad you got the sense to feel sorry now, Lena, anyway, and I try to do what I can to
help you out in your trouble, only you don't deserve to have anybody take any trouble for you.
But perhaps you know better next time. You go home now and take care you don't spoil your clothes
and that new hat, you had no business to be wearin' that this morning, but you ain't got no
sense at all, Lena. I never in my life see anybody be so stupid."

Mrs. Haydon stopped and poor Lena stood there in her hat, all trimmed with pretty flowers,
and the tears coming out of her eyes, and Lena did not know what it was that she had done,
only she was not going to be married and it was a disgrace for a girl to be left by a man on
the very day she was to be married.

Lena went home all alone, and cried in the street car.

Poor Lena cried very hard all alone in the street car. She almost spoiled her new hat with
her hitting it against the window in her crying. Then she remembered that she must not do so.

The conductor was a kind man and he was very sorry when he saw her crying. "Don't feel so bad,
you get another feller, you are such a nice girl," he said to make her cheerful. "But Aunt
Mathilda said now, I never get married," poor Lena sobbed out for her answer. "Why you really
got trouble like that," said the conductor, "I just said that now to josh you. I didn't ever
think you really was left by a feller. He must be a stupid feller. But don't you worry, he
wasn't much good if he could go away and leave you, lookin' to be such a nice girl. You just
tell all your trouble to me, and I help you." The car was empty and the conductor sat down
beside her to put his arm around her, and to be a comfort to her. Lena suddenly remembered
where she was, and if she did things like that her aunt would scold her. She moved away from
the man into the corner. He laughed, "Don't be scared," he said, "I wasn't going to hurt you.
But you just keep up your spirit. You are a real nice girl, and you'll be sure to get a real
good husband. Don't you let nobody fool you. You're all right and I don't want to scare you."

The conductor went back to his platform to help a passenger get on the car. All the time Lena
stayed in the street car, he would come in every little while and reassure her, about her not
to feel so bad about a man who hadn't no more sense than to go away and leave her. She'd be
sure yet to get a good man, she needn't be so worried, he frequently assured her.

He chatted with the other passenger who had just come in, a very well dressed old man, and
then with another who came in later, a good sort of a working man, and then another who came
in, a nice lady, and he told them all about Lena's having trouble, and it was too bad there
were men who treated a poor girl so badly. And everybody in the car was sorry for poor Lena
and the workman tried to cheer her, and the old man looked sharply at her, and said she looked
like a good girl, but she ought to be more careful and not to be so careless, and things like
that would not happen to her, and the nice lady went and sat beside her and Lena liked it,
though she shrank away from being near her.

So Lena was feeling a little better when she got off the car, and the conductor helped her,
and he called out to her, "You be sure you keep up a good heart now. He wasn't no good that
feller and you were lucky for to lose him. You'll get a real man yet, one that will be better
for you. Don't you be worried, you're a real nice girl as I ever see in such trouble," and
the conductor shook his head and went back into his car to talk it over with the other passengers
he had there.

The german cook, who always scolded Lena, was very angry when she heard the story. She never
did think Mrs. Haydon would do so much for Lena, though she was always talking so grand about
what she could do for everybody. The good german cook always had been a little distrustful
of her. People who always thought they were so much never did really do things right for anybody.
Not that Mrs. Haydon wasn't a good woman. Mrs. Haydon was a real, good, german woman, and she
did really mean to do well by her niece Lena. The cook knew that very well, and she had always
said so, and she always had liked and respected Mrs. Haydon, who always acted very proper to
her, and Lena was so backward, when there was a man to talk to, Mrs. Haydon did have hard work
when she tried to marry Lena. Mrs. Haydon was a good woman, only she did talk sometimes too
grand. Perhaps this trouble would make her see it wasn't always so easy to do, to make everybody
do everything just like she wanted. The cook was very sorry now for Mrs. Haydon. All this must
be such a disappointment, and such a worry to her, and she really had always been very good
to Lena. But Lena had better go and put on her other clothes and stop all that crying. That
wouldn't do nothing now to help her, and if Lena would be a good girl, and just be real patient,
her aunt would make it all come out right yet for her. "I just tell Mrs. Aldrich, Lena, you
stay here yet a little longer. You know she is always so good to you, Lena, and I know she
let you, and I tell her all about that stupid Herman Kreder. I got no patience, Lena, with
anybody who can be so stupid. You just stop now with your crying, Lena, and take off them good
clothes and put them away so you don't spoil them when you need them, and you can help me with
the dishes and everything will come off better for you. You see if I ain't right by what I
tell you. You just stop crying now Lena quick, or else I scold you."

Lena still choked a little and was very miserable inside her but she did everything just as
the cook told her.

The girls Lena always sat with were very sorry to see her look so sad with her trouble. Mary
the Irish girl sometimes got very angry with her. Mary was always very hot when she talked
to Lena's aunt Mathilda, who thought she was so grand, and had such stupid, stuck up daughters.
Mary wouldn't be a fat fool like that ugly tempered Mathilda Haydon, not for anything anybody
could ever give her. How Lena could keep on going there so much when they all always acted
as if she was just dirt to them, Mary never could see. But Lena never had any sense of how
she should make people stand round for her, and that was always all the trouble with her. And
poor Lena, she was so stupid to be sorry for losing that gawky fool who didn't ever know what
he wanted and just said "ja" to his mamma and his papa, like a baby, and was scared to look
at a girl straight, and then sneaked away the last day like as if somebody was going to do
something to him. Disgrace, Lena talking about disgrace! It was a disgrace for a girl to be
seen with the likes of him, let alone to be married to him. But that poor Lena, she never did
know how to show herself off for what she was really. Disgrace to have him go away and leave
her. Mary would just like to get a chance to show him. If Lena wasn't worth fifteen like Herman
Kreder, Mary would just eat her own head all up. It was a good riddance Lena had of that Herman
Kreder and his stingy, dirty parents, and if Lena didn't stop crying about it,--Mary would
just naturally despise her.

Poor Lena, she knew very well how Mary meant it all, this she was always saying to her. But
Lena was very miserable inside her. She felt the disgrace it was for a decent german girl that
a man should go away and leave her. Lena knew very well that her aunt was right when she said
the way Herman had acted to her was a disgrace to everyone that knew her. Mary and Nellie and
the other girls she always sat with were always very good to Lena but that did not make her
trouble any better. It was a disgrace the way Lena had been left, to any decent family, and
that could never be made any different to her.

And so the slow days wore on, and Lena never saw her Aunt Mathilda. At last on Sunday she got
word by a boy to go and see her aunt Mathilda. Lena's heart beat quick for she was very nervous
now with all this that had happened to her. She went just as quickly as she could to see her
Aunt Mathilda.

Mrs. Haydon quick, as soon as she saw Lena, began to scold her for keeping her aunt waiting
so long for her, and for not coming in all the week to see her, to see if her aunt should need
her, and so her aunt had to send a boy to tell her. But it was easy, even for Lena, to see
that her aunt was not really angry with her. It wasn't Lena's fault, went on Mrs. Haydon, that
everything was going to happen all right for her. Mrs. Haydon was very tired taking all this
trouble for her, and when Lena couldn't even take trouble to come and see her aunt, to see
if she needed anything to tell her. But Mrs. Haydon really never minded things like that when
she could do things for anybody. She was tired now, all the trouble she had been taking to
make things right for Lena, but perhaps now Lena heard it she would learn a little to be thankful
to her. "You get all ready to be married Tuesday, Lena, you hear me," said Mrs. Haydon to her.
"You come here Tuesday morning and I have everything all ready for you. You wear your new dress
I got you, and your hat with all them flowers on it, and you be very careful coming you don't
get your things all dirty, you so careless all the time, Lena, and not thinking, and you act
sometimes you never got no head at all on you. You go home now, and you tell your Mrs. Aldrich
that you leave her Tuesday. Don't you go forgetting now, Lena, anything I ever told you what
you should do to be careful. You be a good girl, now Lena. You get married Tuesday to Herman
Kreder." And that was all Lena ever knew of what had happened all this week to Herman Kreder.
Lena forgot there was anything to know about it. She was really to be married Tuesday, and
her Aunt Mathilda said she was a good girl, and now there was no disgrace left upon her.

Lena now fell back into the way she always had of being always dreamy and not there, the way
she always had been, except for the few days she was so excited, because she had been left
by a man the very day she was to have been married. Lena was a little nervous all these last
days, but she did not think much about what it meant for her to be married.

Herman Kreder was not so content about it. He was quiet and was sullen and he knew he could
not help it. He knew now he just had to let himself get married. It was not that Herman did
not like Lena Mainz. She was as good as any other girl could be for him. She was a little better
perhaps than other girls he saw, she was so very quiet, but Herman did not like to always have
to have a girl around him. Herman had always done everything that his mother and his father
wanted. His father had found him in New York, where Herman had gone to be with his married sister.

Herman's father when he had found him coaxed Herman a long time and went on whole days with
his complaining to him, always troubled but gentle and quite patient with him, and always he
was worrying to Herman about what was the right way his boy Herman should always do, always
whatever it was his mother ever wanted from him, and always Herman never made him any answer.

Old Mr. Kreder kept on saying to him, he did not see how Herman could think now, it could be
any different. When you make a bargain you just got to stick right to it, that was the only
way old Mr. Kreder could ever see it, and saying you would get married to a girl and she got
everything all ready, that was a bargain just like one you make in business and Herman he had
made it, and now Herman he would just have to do it, old Mr. Kreder didn't see there was any
other way a good boy like his Herman had, to do it. And then too that Lena Mainz was such a
nice girl and Herman hadn't ought to really give his father so much trouble and make him pay
out all that money, to come all the way to New York just to find him, and they both lose all
that time from their working, when all Herman had to do was just to stand up, for an hour,
and then he would be all right married, and it would be all over for him, and then everything
at home would never be any different to him.

And his father went on; there was his poor mother saying always how her Herman always did everything
before she ever wanted, and now just because he got notions in him, and wanted to show people
how he could be stubborn, he was making all this trouble for her, and making them pay all that
money just to run around and find him. "You got no idea Herman, how bad mama is feeling about
the way you been acting Herman," said old Mr. Kreder to him. "She says she never can understand
how you can be so thankless Herman. It hurts her very much you been so stubborn, and she find
you such a nice girl for you, like Lena Mainz who is always just so quiet and always saves
up all her wages, and she never wanting her own way at all like some girls are always all the
time to have it, and you mama trying so hard, just so you could be comfortable Herman to be
married, and then you act so stubborn Herman. You like all young people Herman, you think only
about yourself, and what you are just wanting, and your mama she is thinking only what is good
for you to have, for you in the future. Do you think your mama wants to have a girl around
to be a bother, for herself, Herman. Its just for you Herman she is always thinking, and she
talks always about how happy she will be, when she sees her Herman married to a nice girl,
and then when she fixed it all up so good for you, so it never would be any bother to you,
just the way she wanted you should like it, and you say yes all right, I do it, and then you
go away like this and act stubborn, and make all this trouble everybody to take for you, and
we spend money, and I got to travel all round to find you. You come home now with me Herman
and get married, and I tell your mama she better not say anything to you about how much it
cost me to come all the way to look for you--Hey Herman," said his father coaxing, "Hey, you
come home now and get married. All you got to do Herman is just to stand up for an hour Herman,
and then you don't never to have any more bother to it--Hey Herman!--you come home with me
to-morrow and get married. Hey Herman."

Herman's married sister liked her brother Herman, and she had always tried to help him, when
there was anything she knew he wanted. She liked it that he was so good and always did everything
that their father and their mother wanted, but still she wished it could be that he could have
more his own way, if there was anything he ever wanted.

But now she thought Herman with his girl was very funny. She wanted that Herman should be married.
She thought it would do him lots of good to get married. She laughed at Herman when she heard
the story. Until his father came to find him, she did not know why it was Herman had come just
then to New York to see her. When she heard the story she laughed a good deal at her brother
Herman and teased him a good deal about his running away, because he didn't want to have a
girl to be all the time around him.

