She dared not ask the question; but, as the feeble steps endeavoured to keep pace with her
own, a possible explanation darted into Mollie's mind.  The poor old man was ill, very ill;
there was an expression on the grey, sunken face which was eloquent even to her inexperience.
Death was coming forward to meet him, coming very near; standing upon the very threshold! 
Strong, happy nineteen shuddered at the thought, and felt an overpowering pity for the waning life.

Mollie longed to comfort the old man with the assurance that there were many still left who
could help and minister to his declining days; but her previous overtures had met with so little
success that she was afraid of meeting yet another rebuff, and, with unusual prudence, decided
to await a better opportunity.

Langton Terrace was reached at last, and Mollie produced a key and opened the door of Number
7.  In a household where there are so many children and so few servants, the latchkey was in
constant use, and thus it happened that she could bring her guest unnoticed into the house
and escort him to her stepfather's sanctum, which was sure to be unoccupied at this hour of
the afternoon.  She drew forward an armchair, poked the fire into a blaze, and laid Mr Farrell's
hat and stick on the table, while he lay wearily against the cushions.  He looked woefully
exhausted, and Mollie's kind heart had a happy inspiration.

"I shan't tell anyone that you are here until you have had a rest," she said assuringly.  "This
is the pater's den, and his private property after four o'clock, so you will be quite undisturbed.
Just tell me what will refresh you most--tea, coffee, wine?  I can bring what you like quite
quietly."

"Tea, please--tea, and ten minutes' rest.  I shall be better then," Mr Farrell said wearily.

Mollie left the room to prepare a dainty little tray in the pantry, and beg a private pot of
tea from the kitchen.  The idea of waiting in secret upon Uncle Bernard was delightfully exciting;
it was almost as good as running the blockade, to creep past the dining-room door where her
mother and sisters were assembled, and listen to the murmur of voices from within.

If they knew--oh, if they knew!  She had prepared some crisp slices of toast, skimmed the cream
off the milk in defiance of cook's protests, and made sure that the water in the little covered
jug was boiling, and not only moderately warm, as the custom was.  It was the simplest of meals,
but at least everything was as tempting as hands could make it, and Mollie had the satisfaction
of pouring out two cups of tea, and seeing the last slice of toast disappear from the rack.
She took nothing herself, and preserved a discreet silence until Mr Farrell replaced cup and
plate on the table, and condescended to smile approval.

"Thank you, Miss Mollie; I am obliged to you for securing me this rest. Judging from my first
impressions of your character, I should not have expected so much common-sense.  I feel quite
refreshed, and ready to see your mother when it is convenient."

Mollie lifted the tray, and stood for a moment looking down with an air of triumph.

"I'm so glad!  I talk a lot of nonsense, but I can be quite sensible if I like, and I did want
to help you, Uncle Bernard; I'll send mother in here, where you can have your talk in peace.
It's the only chance of being uninterrupted."

Mr Farrell made no reply, and Mollie made haste to deposit the tray in the pantry, and rush
for the dining-room door.  The secret had been kept so long that she felt sore--absolutely
sore with the strain.  It seemed incredible that her mother and sisters should be sitting munching
bread- and-butter as calmly as if it were an ordinary day, when nothing extraordinary had happened
to break the monotonous routine.  She leant against the lintel of the door and called her mother
by name--"Muv! you are wanted at once in the Den.  Somebody wants to speak to you!"

Mrs Connor's brow furrowed into the usual anxious lines as she prepared to hear a story of
fresh disaster from her husband's lips; but at the doorway two magic words were whispered into
her ear which brought the blood into the white cheeks, and sent her trotting down the hall
on eager feet.  Then came the delicious moment to which Mollie had looked forward ever since
the meeting at the cross-roads.  She walked back into the room, while Ruth looked up with weary
curiosity, and Trix with unconcealed wrath.

"You might have let mother finish her tea in peace!  She has been slaving all day, and was
just enjoying a rest!"

"What is it, Mollie?  Why did the pater come home so early?  Is he ill?"

"It isn't pater, my dear.  Guess again!  A friend of mine, whom I met in the park and brought
home to tea.  He was rather tired, so I, gave him a private little feed in the study, instead
of bringing him straight in here.  Considerate of me, wasn't it?  He was quite touched."

"He?" repeated Ruth breathlessly.  "Mollie, what are you talking about? Don't make a mystery
out of nothing!  Why can't you say at once who it is?"

"I'm afraid of your nerves, dear.  I want to break it to you by degrees. Sudden shocks are
dangerous for the young.  My own heart is quite palpitating with all I have undergone to-day.
I was walking along,--all innocent and unsuspicious,--gazing upon the fair spring scene, when
suddenly, glancing ahead, I beheld a figure standing at the junction of the cross-roads.  'Tis
ever thus, my love!  Fate stands waiting for us where the paths diverge, to point out the way
in which we should go. End of volume one ...  Do you feel excited?"

Trix grinned broadly, Ruth looked tired and impatient.

"Oh, thrilled, of course!  So many interesting people come to see us that it's difficult to
choose between them.  The piano-tuner, perhaps; or the gasman, to look at the meter."

"I should have walked home with them, shouldn't I, and given them tea in the study?  A little
higher in the social scale, please!"

"The curate calling for a subscription?"

"Cold; quite cold!  Try again!  Someone you have often wished to see, but who has never displayed
any great anxiety to make your acquaintance in return."

"Uncle Bernard, I presume?" said Ruth sarcastically, not for one moment believing the truth
of her words, though her mind instantly reverted to the personage of that mythical uncle who
had played so large a part in her mental life.  She did not even trouble to look at Mollie
as she spoke; but Trix did, and bounded to her feet in excitement.

"Is it--is it?  Oh, Mollie, not really!  He hasn't really and truly appeared after all these
years?  You don't seriously mean it?  Look at her, Ruth!  I believe it is true!"

Ruth looked, and flushed the loveliest of pinks.  It seemed almost incredible that Trix was
right, yet something very much out of the usual course of events must have happened to excite
Mollie so keenly.  Her cheeks were burning as though with a fever, the hand resting on the
table was actually trembling.  "Tell me, Mollie!" she pleaded; and Mollie nodded her head in
triumph.

"Uncle Bernard himself!  The real, genuine article sitting in solid flesh and blood in our
very own study, and I'm the one who brought him here.  What do you think of that for an adventure?
I saw an aged, aged man a-leaning on a stick, as the poem says, and I went up and asked him
if I could help him in any way.  I once read about an old man whose nose suddenly began to
bleed in an omnibus.  He searched for a pocket- handkerchief, but had evidently forgotten to
bring one, and the other passengers began to smile and titter, all except one girl, who opened
her bag and presented him with a nice clean one of her own.  The old man died soon afterwards,
and left her a million pounds as a token of gratitude.  I think it's just as kind to escort
a stranger through a lonely park when he has lost his way!  If Uncle Bernard adopts me and
gives me a million, I'll treat you both to a nice new hat.--I asked where he was going, and
he said to Number 7 Langton Terrace, and I looked at him.  And, Ruth, do you know what I thought
of?  I thought of you!  He had black eyebrows like yours, and he scowls, as you do (only when
you are cross, dear, not when you're in a good temper), and his lips droop like yours, too.
I thought, `I have seen that face before!' and then I remembered the photographs, and it burst
upon me all in a moment.  Then he asked me if I knew the Connors, and I said I'd known them
for years, and the step-daughters, too, and that they were a charming family, but Mollie was
the nicest of all."

"Mollie, you didn't!"

"I did!  Why not?  It's true, isn't it?  When I revealed myself to him, however, he seemed
to think that I was rather vain.  I must leave it to time to prove the truth of my assertion."

"You are in earnest?  You really mean it?  Mollie, what has he come for? What has made him
remember us after all these years?  Has something happened that we know nothing about?"

"I can't tell you.  There's only one thing certain,--he is very old and ill, and if he wants
to see us at all there isn't much time to spare. He is not at all like the Uncle Bernard mother
remembers, but very cross and irritable, and his poor old face looks so miserable that it goes
to your heart to see him.  I wanted to put my arms round his neck and kiss him, but I would
as soon have attempted to embrace a tiger.  He snubbed me the whole time.  Oh, talk of adventures!
What an afternoon I have had!"

"If you met him walking across the park he can't have any luggage, and if he hasn't any luggage
he can't intend to sleep here to-night," reasoned Ruth thoughtfully.  "Perhaps he will just
stay to dinner.  Pea- soup, cold beef, and apple-pie--that's all there is, and he is accustomed
to half a dozen courses, and two men-servants to wait upon him.  Poor dear mother will be in
despair because she didn't order a fresh joint for to-day.  Shall I go to the kitchen and see
if there is anything that can be made into a hot dish?"

Mollie pursed up her lips, but, before she had time to reply, the sound of footsteps was heard
from without, and Mrs Connor appeared in the doorway, followed by the tall, gaunt figure of
Uncle Bernard.  The girls rose from their seats as he entered the room, and Ruth and Trix approached
him with diffident smiles, while Mrs Connor introduced each by name.

"This is my eldest girl, Ruth; you saw her last when she was a baby in arms.  This is Beatrice
Connor; she knows you quite well by name, don't you, Trix dear?"

But Mr Farrell betrayed not the faintest interest in Trix or her memories, and barely touched
the hand which she extended towards him. All his attention seemed concentrated on Ruth, as
she stood before him with her beautiful, flushed face raised to his own.

"This is Ruth!" he repeated slowly.  "She is not at all like her sister. I am glad that one
of your girls takes after her father's family, Mary. This one is an unmistakable Farrell!"

Mollie turned aside with an expressive grimace.

"I'm cut out already," she told herself.  "Ruth's black brows have walked straight into his
affections!  I might as well resign myself to play second fiddle forthwith."

Mr Farrell accepted an invitation to stay for the family dinner, but it cannot truthfully be
said that his presence added to the gaiety of the meal.  Mrs Connor was nervous and ill at
ease, regretting, as her daughter had foretold, that she had not ordered a hot joint for to-day,
and allowed the cold meat to be used on the morrow.

She looked gratefully at Ruth when a small dish of curry made its appearance, in addition to
the scanty menu; but Uncle Bernard had spent some years of his life in India, and his ideas
of curry evidently differed from those of the plain cook downstairs, for after the first taste
he laid down his fork and made no further pretence of eating.

Mr Connor made several attempts to introduce interesting subjects of conversation, but receiving
only monosyllabic replies, relapsed in his turn into silence.  With every moment that passed,
the girls felt less able to imagine the reason for the appearance of a visitor who showed so
little interest in the affairs of the family; for Mr Farrell asked no questions, paid no attention
to the general conversation, and, for the greater part of the time, appeared lost in his own
thoughts.

The three little boys alone were unaffected by the general tension, and chattered about their
school adventures in their usual noisy fashion. On another occasion Mrs Connor would have checked
them, but anything was better than the dead silence which at one time had threatened the whole
table; so she left them unreproved, and Uncle Bernard scowled at them beneath his bushy brows
in a manner the reverse of approving.

It happened that Betty occupied the seat immediately opposite the visitor, and it was one of
Betty's idiosyncrasies to repeat the grimaces of others with an imitation as faithful as it
was unconscious.  When, for example, Mollie was speaking, Betty tossed her head, tilted her
chin, and arched her brows, to the delight and amusement of the family; and now, there she
sat--good, kind, most inoffensive of creatures-- drawing her wisps of eyebrows together in
a lowering scowl, and twisting her lips into an expression of sour distaste.

The three boys nudged each other and tittered together, and Mr Farrell looked round to discover
the reason of their mirth, and beheld Betty's transformed face peering into his own.  His glance
of indignation made her flush with what appeared to be conscious guilt, though, in truth, the
poor child had no idea of the nature of her offence.  Mrs Connor beheld the incident with petrified
horror, Ruth registered a determination to lecture Betty out of so dangerous a habit, but warm-
hearted Mollie rushed headlong into the breach.

"Uncle Bernard, Betty did not mean to be rude!  Please do not think she was intentionally disrespectful.
She has a habit of imitating people, without knowing what she is about, and I am afraid we
laugh at her for it, because it is so funny to watch; but she would be dreadfully sorry to
be rude to anyone, wouldn't you, Betty dear?"

Betty's lips opened to emit a hoarse, inarticulate murmur.  Uncle Bernard turned his eyes upon
Mollie, and said coldly--

"You wish to imply that she was imitating my expressions?  Indeed!  It is always interesting
to know in what light one appears to others.  I regret that I failed to catch the likeness."

"Dear Uncle Bernard, shall we go to the drawing-room now?  The children use this room to prepare
their lessons.  We will have coffee in the drawing-room!" cried Mrs Connor eagerly.  And the
elders filed across the hall, leaving poor Betty reduced to tears of misery, while the boys
comforted her by jibes and jeers in true schoolboy fashion.

In the drawing-room a ghastly silence prevailed, broken by fitful efforts of conversation.
Mr Farrell had asked that a cab should be ordered by nine o'clock to take him back to his hotel;
but, though the time drew nearer and nearer, he still vouchsafed no explanation of the unexpected
visit.  Surely--surely, before going away he would say something, and not once more disappear
into the mist, and let the veil of silence fall around him?  The same thought was in every
mind, the same wondering anticipation; but it was only when the cab was announced and Mr Farrell
rose to say good-bye that he appeased their curiosity.

"I came here to-day to make the acquaintance of my nephew's daughters. I should be glad, Mary,
if you would allow them to pay me a visit at the Court.  I have arranged to have a lady in
residence who will look after them and do what chaperonage is needful.  If Monday will suit
you, I should like them to arrive on that day."

It sounded more like a command than an invitation, but such as it was it thrilled the listeners
with joy.  To pay a visit, and above all, to visit the Court, of which they had heard so much,
had been the girls' day-dream for so long that it seemed impossible that it had come at last.
Ruth's mind flew at once to considerations of ways and means, and she suffered a moment of
agonising suspense before Mrs Connor's eager consent put an end to anxiety.

"Oh, I shall be delighted--delighted!  The girls will love it, of all things.  How kind of
you, dear Uncle Bernard!  Ruth!  Mollie!  Are you not delighted to have such a treat in store?"

"Thank you, Uncle Bernard; I should love to come!" cried Ruth warmly. "Mollie and I have often
said that there is nothing in the world we should enjoy more than paying a visit to the Court.
It is most good of you to ask us!"

"And we will try to behave very nicely, and not bother you at all," added Mollie, her eyes
dancing with happiness.  "We are to come on Monday week.  And will there be other people, too--other
visitors, besides ourselves?"

"Probably," said Uncle Bernard curtly.  "There are several important matters to be discussed,
into which I cannot enter in a short interview. I am inviting you--and others--in order that
we may talk them over at leisure.  A carriage will meet the train arriving at four-twenty.
Good- afternoon, Mary.  I shall not see you again, as I leave by an early train to-morrow."

Even as he spoke, Mr Farrell made his way towards the door with an air of finality which forbade
further questioning.  He had waited until the last possible moment before giving his invitation,
and, having obtained an acceptance, was evidently determined to take his departure without
further delay.  Mrs Connor escorted him to the door, her husband helped him into the cab, offered
to accompany him to the hotel, was coldly snubbed for his pains, and came back into the house
heaving deep sighs of relief.

"Now for my smoke!" he exclaimed, and hurried off to the study, while Mrs Connor was dragged
into the drawing-room and subjected to a breathless cross-questioning.

"Matters of importance to discuss!  Mother, what can he mean?"

"Other people besides ourselves!  Mother, who can they be?"

"How long does he want us to stay?"

"What are we going to do about clothes?"

"That's just exactly what I'm asking myself!" cried Mrs Connor, referring with equal truthfulness
to all four questions at once.  "It is most awkward, not knowing how long you are expected
to stay, or what sort of a party you are to meet; but, in any case, I am afraid you must have
some new clothes.  I will have a talk with pater, and see what can be done, and you must divide
my things between you.  I have a few pieces of good lace still, and one or two trinkets which
will come in usefully. I am afraid we cannot manage anything new for evenings; you must make
the black dresses do."

Mollie groaned dismally.

"They are so old and shabby!  The sleeves look as if they had come out of the Ark.  I do so
long to be white and fluffy for once.  Can't we squeeze out white dresses, mother?  I'd do
without sugar and jam for a year, if you'll advance the money.  Even muslin would be better
than nothing, and it would wash, and come in for summer best, and then cut up into curtains,
and after that into dusters.  Really, if you look at it in the right light, it would be an
economy to buy them!  I am sure Uncle Bernard would like to see me in white!  Now don't you
think he would?"

"I'll do what I can, dear--I'll do what I can!  I should like you both to look as well as possible.
`Matters of importance!' ...  I can't think what matters of importance Uncle Bernard can wish
to discuss with children like you.  And who are the other guests?  And are they also included
in the discussion?  I don't know of any near relations he has left, except ourselves; but he
was even more intimate with his wife's people than his own, and she belonged to a large family.
Dear, dear! It is most awkward to be so much in the dark.  I do wish he had been a little more
explicit while he was about it."

"Never mind, muv; it makes it all the more exciting.  We are going to meet someone, and we
don't know whom; and to discuss something, and we don't know what; and to stay, we don't know
how long.  There's this comfort--we can easily take all our belongings, and still not be overburdened
with luggage!  Ten days--only ten days before we start!  It sounds almost too good to be true.
But how will you manage without us, dear little mother?"

"Oh, don't trouble about me, dear!  I'll manage beautifully.  Old Miss Carter can come in to
help me if I get too tired; but, indeed, I shall be so happy to think of you two girls staying
at the dear old Court that it will do me as much good as a tonic.  Now I will go and talk to
pater about money matters.  We ought to begin preparations at once."

Mr Connor joined in the general satisfaction at the invitation which had been given to his
step-daughters, and, though mildly surprised to hear that any fresh equipments would be required,
took his wife's word for the need, and produced two five-pound notes from his cash-box, which
she was deputed to use as she thought fit.

"If you don't need it all, you can give me back whatever is over," said the innocent male,
little reckoning that three feminine heads would lie restless on their pillows that night,
striving in vain to solve the problem of making ten pounds do duty for fifty.

Next morning, pencils and paper were in requisition to check mental additions, while Ruth drew
up a list of usefuls, and Mollie one of fineries which seemed equally essential.  At a most
modest estimate it seemed possible to purchase the whole for something under thirty pounds.
A painful curtailment brought it down to twenty, but by no persuasion could that sum be halved.

"Unless we play Box and Cox!" cried Mollie, in desperation.  "One rain cloak, and an understanding
that one of us invariably feels chilly, and stays at home on wet days.  One white dress, to
be worn in turn on special occasions, while the other languishes in bed with a headache. One
evening cloak, ditto.  Ditto gloves and sundries.  It is the only way I can see out of the
difficulty."

"Don't be absurd, Mollie!  We shall both have to stay in bed if anything special takes place,
for we can't afford any extras.  I remember once asking Eleanor Drummond's advice about spending
my allowance, and she said, `Wear a shabby dress, if you must; wear a shabby hat, if you have
not taste and ingenuity to trim one for yourself out of next to nothing; but never, never,
never condescend to a shabby petticoat or shoes down at the heel!'  I thought it splendid advice,
and have always acted upon it, as far as I could.  Let us buy really nice boots and slippers
and petticoats before we do anything else!"

"I'll have a silk one, then, and rustle for once, if I die for it!" cried Mollie recklessly.
"And the boots shall be thin, not thick, with a nice, curved sole to show off my patrician
instep.  If I have to content myself with usefuls, they shall be as ornamental as possible.
Don't you think we might possibly squeeze out net over-skirts to wear with the black silks,
sometimes, so as to make them look like two dresses instead of one?"

"Oh, my dear, I like luxuries as much as you do!  It's only grim necessity which makes me prudent.
The black net is really an inspiration, and if we make it up ourselves we can manage quite
well, and have enough money left for gloves and ribbons, and one fresh blouse a-piece."

For the next week all was bustle and excitement.  The girls paid two long shopping expeditions
to town, and returned laden with interesting parcels, the contents of which were displayed
to an admiring audience in the drawing-room, and then taken upstairs to Attica, which was transformed
into a dressmaker's work-room, barriers being for once ignored in consideration of the importance
of the occasion.

The five-pound notes became wonderfully elastic, and even after they were expended little offerings
came in from friends and members of the family to swell the great sum total.  One sent a pretty
tie, another a belt, a third a lace handkerchief.  Trix supplied a most stylish collection
of pens, pencils, and indiarubbers, reposing in her very best box; and Betty, not to be outdone,
rummaged among her various collections for a suitable offering.  Eventually she discovered
a half- emptied bottle of eau-de-Cologne, which had been presented to her the Christmas before,
filled it up with water, and presented it to her sisters for mutual use, unperturbed by the
fact that the transparent hue of the scent had changed to a milky white.

On the morning of the fifth day Ruth had a conviction that she was sickening with a dire disease;
on the sixth, she anticipated a disabling accident; on the seventh, she waited hourly for a
telegram from Uncle Bernard, retracting his invitation; on the eighth, she wanted to know what
would happen if there was a cab strike in the city; and on the ninth, talked vaguely of blizzards
and earthquakes.  Something it seemed must happen to prevent this long-dreamed-of journey;
it did not seem possible that the stars should run placidly in their courses, while Ruth and
Mollie Farrell were going a-visiting with a box full of fineries!

Yet the day did break, an ordinary, grey morning, with no sign to distinguish it from another.
Looking out of the window, men and women could be seen going calmly about their duties.  The
postman and newspaper-boy arrived at their accustomed time.  No one outside the household seemed
to realise that the day was big with fate.

At eleven o'clock a cab drove up to the door; the boxes were piled on the roof; and the heroines
of the hour made their appearance in the doorway, immaculately trim and tidy in travelling
array.  The brothers and sisters were absent at school, so there was only the little mother
to say adieu, and stand waving her hand until the cab had disappeared from view.

Once, she too had been young and fair, and life had stretched before her like an empty page,
on which the most marvellous happenings might be enrolled.  Now, she was old and harassed and
poor, and there seemed little ahead but work and worry; yet she could not call life a failure.

"I have had the best thing," she said to herself, as she shut the door and re-entered the empty
house--"plenty of dear ones to love, and to love me in return.  God bless my two girls, and
give them the same sweet gift."

CHAPTER SIX.

AT THE COURT.

The girl whose lot has been cast in narrow places, and whose youth has known few relaxations,
should take heart at the thought of the future. There is a good time coming!  However long
be the lane, the turning must eventually be reached; and then--ah, then, what zest of delight,
what whole-hearted, unqualified enjoyment!

If Ruth and Mollie Farrell had been in the habit of paying half a dozen visits a year,--if,
indeed, they had even once before started off together on pleasure bent, would they have hailed
every incident of the journey with the delight which they experienced to-day?  Not a bit of it!

They would have grumbled at the wait on the platform, at the stoppages of the train at country
stations, at the draught from the window, the banging of the door, the constant requests for
tickets.  They would have yawned and lolled back in their corners, and eventually shut their
eyes and fallen asleep, regardless of the scenes through which they were passing.

As it was, every fresh stop was a delight.  They beamed at the porter who collected their luggage,
paid for return tickets with the complacence of millionaires, and thought it lucky that there
were ten minutes to spare before the arrival of the train.  They tried each other's weight,
to the delight of the onlookers; put a penny in every available slot, and made a reckless expenditure
in penny magazines. Last, and greatest luxury of all, Ruth actually ordered a tea-basket to
be handed into the carriage at a half-way station; one basket to do duty for two, but still
a deliberate extravagance, when refreshments had been provided from home; and oh, dear me,
how delicious it was to be extravagant for once!

When the train came in, one porter dashed forward to secure window-seats in an empty carriage,
another hurried up with rugs and handbags; groups of people standing upon the platform looked
after the two girls with kindly glances; everybody seemed kind and interested, as though understanding
the nature of their expedition, and wishing them good- speed.

They sat opposite to each other, gazing out of their respective windows, or making an affectation
of reading the magazines which lay littered about the seat; but the end was always the same,
their eyes met in irrepressible smiles, and they began to talk once more.

Real life was so much more interesting than romance!

"I feel so very Lucille-y!"  Mollie declared "Travelling on pleasure, with a tea-basket coming
to meet me!  It was an inspiration of yours to order it, Ruth!  I shall be grateful to you
to the end of my life! Let's talk about what we shall do to-night...  Let's guess who will
be there, and what they will be like.  The lady chaperon, now!  Should you think that the presence
of a chaperon implied that there would be young men in the party?  I hope there are."

"So do I," assented Ruth frankly.  "But I fancy that they are more likely to be old.  Some
nieces and nephews of Aunt Edna's, about mother's age, perhaps--middle-aged couples, with caps
and spectacles. How will you feel if we are the only young people there?"

"I refuse to imagine anything so ghastly!  The couples may have children, mayn't they?  I imagine
a charming girl who has no sisters, and who will adopt us as her dearest friends, and ask us
to stay with her.  I rather think she will be dark, and wear eyeglasses, and have a brother
who is musical, and has a tenor voice.  Then there will be another man--Sir Somebody or other,
who has a big estate in the county. He will be very superior at first, and take no notice of
us, but in the end he will be conquered by our modest charms and become a devoted admirer.
Perhaps there may be some couples, but they will be young and festive, and the chaperon will
be a dear old thing with side-ringlets, who will let us do as we like, and take our part with
the old man.  That sounds about the right thing, doesn't it?"

Ruth smiled happily.

"Ah, well! whoever we meet, I am going to enjoy myself.  A change, a change--that's what I
wanted.  Everything will be different, and there's a world of refreshment in that alone.  How
thankful I am that Uncle Bernard asked us both, Mollie!  It's half the fun to talk things over
together."

She lay back in her corner, and gazed out of the window once more, smiling dreamily as a whirl
of thoughts flew through her mind.  What would have happened before she travelled once more
past these flying landmarks?  What new friendships would be formed--what experiences undergone--what
matters of importance revealed?

Life seemed all to lie ahead; yet from time to time her thoughts drifted back unconsciously
to Donald Maclure, and lingered on the memory.  She had not seen him since the eventful afternoon,
but Eleanor had conveyed his good wishes for a happy visit, and her manner showed she was in
ignorance of what had occurred.

Ruth was grateful for a silence which left her friendship untouched, and her thoughts of the
doctor were gentle and kindly.

"But I couldn't--I couldn't!" she said to herself excusingly.  "I don't want to marry anyone
yet.  I just want to be young and happy, and have a good time!"

At the half-way station the tea-basket made its appearance, and the girls sat side by side
taking turns at the cup, and nibbling at bread- and-butter and plum-cake like two happy children
out for a holiday, which in good truth they were.

They made a pretty picture, and more than one of the passengers upon the platform cast admiring
glances as they passed by.  So far, the carriage had been empty, except for themselves; but,
just as the train was preparing to leave the junction, a young man turned the handle of the
door, threw a bag on the seat, and leapt in after it.  He was on the point of seating himself
in the place which Ruth had just vacated, but, seeing the scattered papers, checked himself,
and took possession of the further corner, while the sisters studied him furtively from time
to time.

He was tall, he was handsome, he was probably about thirty years of age, and he looked thoroughly
bored and out of temper.  After one casual glance at the pretty sisters, he unfolded a newspaper,
and turned from page to page seeking for some item of interest.  His eyes were blue, he was
clean-shaven, his nose was aquiline, and his nostrils were arched, and had a trick of dilation.

"Like a high-bred horse, who wouldn't like the bridle a single bit," was Mollie's comment,
as she turned back to the window; for, after all, the unknown landscape through which the train
was now passing was more absorbing than the appearance of a stranger who took so little interest
in herself.

She gazed and whispered, and dreamed afresh, until at last the name of a familiar station gave
warning that the journey was nearing its end.  In another ten minutes the train was due to
reach Nosely, and in the interval there was much to be done.  Ruth solemnly lifted down the
aged dressing-bag, which dated from her mother's youth, and, with a furtive glance at the stranger
in the corner, took out a looking-glass and carefully surveyed her hair, pulling it out here,
tucking it in there, patting it into position with those deft little touches which come naturally
to a girl, but which seem so mysterious to a masculine observer.

The young man in the corner glanced across the carriage with an expression of lordly amusement
at the foibles of a member of the weaker sex; and there was even worse to come, for when Mollie,
in her turn, had arranged her hair, a cloth brush was produced to remove the dust of travel,
and two pairs of well-worn dogskin gloves were thrown into the bag, and replaced by others
immaculately new.

Mollie was absolutely without embarrassment in these attentions to her toilet, but it required
a little resolution on Ruth's part to ignore the stranger's presence.  Only the reflection,
"We will never see him again!" supported her through the critical moments during which she
trained a fascinating little curl into position on her temple, conscious meantime of a steady
scrutiny from behind the newspaper.

It was something of a shock to see the stranger rise from his seat a moment later, and begin
making those preparations which showed that he also was approaching his destination; but, although
he alighted at Nosely Station, he had disappeared from sight while the girls were still looking
after their luggage, and when they took their seats in the carriage which was waiting to convey
them to the Court there was no sign of him on platform or road.

"That's a comfort!" remarked Mollie thankfully.  "I am glad he did not see where we were going.
How superior he looked when we were prinking, Ruth!  I don't like him a bit--do you?"

"Oh, I don't know--I can't think!  I'm Berengaria, Mollie!  I never was a poor girl travelling
third-class, and changing her gloves at the last moment!  I must have been a duchess in my
last incarnation, for I feel so thoroughly at home in an atmosphere of luxury!" sighed Ruth,
leaning back against the cushions, and glancing languidly from side to side.  "Our luggage
is following behind in the cart.  I hope it will arrive soon, for I want to change my blouse.
I suppose we shall have tea in the hall with the rest of the house-party, as they do in books,
but I hope they won't be assembled when we enter.  I should feel awful walking in, and knowing
that they were all staring and criticising our appearance, wouldn't you?"

Mollie laughed gaily.

"Not a bit.  I'd criticise, too, and shake hands high up--like this--and be pleasant and condescending.
We are Uncle Bernard's nearest relations remember, and the guests of honour...  Now, we are
beginning to go up the hill!  You remember mother said there was a long, winding hill, and
at the top to the left stood the lodge gates.  Don't talk!  I don't want to miss a single thing."

So each girl stared steadily out of her window as the horses slowly mounted the hill path.
For the first few hundred yards there were hedges on either side, and beyond them a wide, uneven
landscape; then came a little village, grouped round a square "green," with all the picturesque
accessories of church, ivy-covered parsonage, thatched roofs, and duck-pond, which travellers
look for in a well-conducted English village.  This passed, there was another climb upwards,
a wider view of the valley beneath, and finally a sharp turn to the left, and a long drive
leading to the greystone Court, whose beauties photographs had made familiar.

The butler threw open the door as the carriage stopped, and the travellers thrilled with excitement
as they crossed the threshold. First a square vestibule, then the great hall itself, stretching
the whole length of the wing, and turning to the right by the foot of the staircase.

The girls' eyes turned in a flash to the tapestry on the walls, and the wooden portraits of
ancestors; but besides these historic relics there were many articles belonging to a later
and more luxurious age.  Carved oak tables, laden with books and magazines; chairs and lounges
of every description; a fireplace brilliant with beaten copper and soft green tiles; leather
screens shielding cosy corners; cabinets of china and curios.

It was even more imposing than imagination had painted it; but--there was no one there!  No
Uncle Bernard to speak a word of greeting; no flutter of silken skirts belonging to nice girls
who had no sisters, and were dying to adopt other nice girls without delay; no scent of cigarettes
smoked by interesting young men, who might have sisters or might not, but who would certainly
be pleased to welcome Berengaria and Lucille!

Ruth had knitted her dark brows, and drawn herself stiffly erect; Mollie was prepared to smile
in benign patronage on less important guests.  It was a trifle disconcerting to see no one
at all but a little, black- robed lady, who came hurriedly forward as they approached the staircase
and stammered a nervous greeting.

"Miss Farrell!  Miss Mary!  I hope you have had a pleasant journey.  I am Mrs Wolff.  Mr Farrell
was kind enough to ask me--yes!  I hope you are not cold.  Your uncle thought you would like
to have tea in your own room.  It will be brought up to you at once.  Mr Farrell desired me
to say that he wished to see you both in the library at half-past five. Shall I take you upstairs
at once?  We have given you one room--a very large one; but if you prefer to have two separate
ones, it can easily be arranged--yes!"

The girls protested that they wished to be together, and followed their guide up the broad
staircase to a room on the first story, where the curtains were already drawn, and a cosy tea-table
spread before the fire.  Mrs Wolff had called it large, and she might truthfully have used
a more emphatic word, for what had originally been the best bedroom in the house had been,
like the drawing-room beneath, enormously enlarged by the addition of a curved, mullioned window,
the entire width of the floor.

"One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine!  Nine dear little windows!" counted
Mollie rapturously, as the door closed behind the figure of the lady chaperon.  "What a view
we shall have to-morrow morning, Ruth!  Sofas, armchairs, writing-tables, two long mirrors
to show the set of our skirts--this is a room after my own heart!  I shall have one exactly
like it when I marry my duke!"

"But I didn't expect to have tea in it, all the same," Ruth objected, as she took off her hat
and jacket.  "The house feels very quiet and deserted.  If we hadn't uncle's own word for it,
I should think there was no one here except ourselves.  He might have come to meet us himself!
It seems so cold to leave us to strangers!"

"You will be disappointed, my dear, if you expect warmth from Uncle Bernard.  My short interview
taught me so much, at least.  But he wants to see us at half-past five, Ruth.  I'll prophesy
something--he is going to talk to us about the `important matters'!  It would be just like
him to explain his position before we have been an hour in the house, so that there can be
no misunderstanding.  I'm right--I know I am!  We are on the eve of solving the mystery!"

Ruth shivered, and drew closer to the fire.

"Don't make me nervous.  It will be bad enough when it comes to the point, without thinking
of it beforehand!" she cried.

And it was all the easier to change the conversation, as at that moment a maid entered with
a tea-tray and a plate of hot, buttered scones.

Tea after a journey is always a most enjoyable meal, and when it was over the girls made as
careful a toilet as could be managed with the materials at hand, the heavier luggage not having
yet made its appearance.  Shortly before half-past five a tap came to the door, and a maid
entered with a double request.

"I have come to show you the way to the library, miss; and if you would kindly give me your
keys before you go, I will have your boxes unpacked. What dresses would you like to wear for
dinner?"

The horror of that moment was never to be forgotten.  Before Ruth's eyes there arose, as in
a vision, the patches on the under-sleeves of her morning blouse, the faded dressing-gown,
the darns, and make-shifts and pitiful little contrivances of poverty.  Her cheeks flamed before
the sharp eyes of the abigail, and then flamed again with scorn at her own folly.

"It is all neat and clean and tidy.  I won't be ashamed of it!" she told herself angrily, as
she turned to search for her keys.

But the evening-dresses!  The next moment with a mingling of relief and irritation, she heard
Mollie's unabashed reply--

"Oh, we have only black dresses!  We will wear the net over-skirts, please!"

Just like Mollie, to wear her best clothes on the first possible occasion, instead of prudently
storing them up for a special need!  But it was too late to protest; already the maid was leading
the way onward. The all-important interview was at hand!

CHAPTER SEVEN.

MR. FARRELL'S PLAN.

"Miss Farrell, sir!" said the maid, throwing open the door of the library.

And Ruth walked forward, followed closely by Mollie.

It was a long, narrow room, lined with book-shelves, and the solitary light from a crimson-shaded
lamp on the central table gave an air of gloom after the bright illumination of the hall without.
On a lounge- chair beside the table sat Bernard Farrell, looking more cadaverous than ever,
with a velvet-skull-cap over his whitened locks.  He did not rise as his great-nieces approached,
but held out his hand in a greeting which was courteous enough, if somewhat cold.

"How do you do?  I am pleased to see you.  Excuse me for not having met you earlier, but I
am not feeling well to-day.  I trust you have received every attention since your arrival at
the Court.  Mrs Wolff had my instructions to look after your comfort."

"Thank you, yes; we had tea in our room--a lovely room.  We are looking forward to enjoying
the view from that splendid window!"

"Ah, yes; it is very fine in clear weather!  Please make yourselves at home, and ask for anything
that you need.  The servants are good, but they are unused to visitors.  Have no hesitation
in keeping them up to their duties.  Will you be seated?  In a few minutes we can, I hope,
begin the business of the hour."

He waved them towards some chairs which were ranged before his table. Four chairs!  In the
twinkling of an eye the girls had grasped both the number and what it implied.  Two other guests
at least were at present in the house, and equally interested with themselves in the coming
discussion.  Their advent was evidently momentarily expected, for Mr Farrell turned an impatient
glance at the clock, and even as he did so the door opened once more and two young men entered
the room.  One was tall and dark, with an olive skin, and a curious, veiled look about his
eyes, caused by the presence of short but abnormally thick black lashes. Viewed in profile
the lashes entirely hid the eye, but the effect of the thick black line was, singularly enough,
rather attractive than the reverse.  He had a dark moustache, and his chin was square and well-
developed.

His companion was--well! the girls felt that they might have guessed it before, as one of the
awkward things which was bound to happen.  He was the stranger of the railway carriage, the
supercilious personage whom they had flattered themselves they would never see again!

Like the two girls, the new-comers had evidently not seen their host before, for they were
greeted by him with practically the same phrases; and then came a general introduction.

"I must make you known to your fellow-guests--Mr Jack Melland, Mr Victor Druce--Miss Farrell,
Miss Mary Farrell.  Mr Melland and Mr Druce are great-nephews of my late wife.  Miss Farrell
and her sister are my own nephew's only children."

The two young men turned towards the girls with curious glances.  Over Mr Jack Melland's face
flitted an amused glance of recognition.  His companion's dark eyes widened with a curious
scrutiny; then the lashes dropped, and hid them from sight.  Seen thus, with mouth and eyes
alike veiled, the face was a mask devoid of expression; yet Mollie had a conviction that she
had surprised something closely approaching disappointment in that fleeting glance.  Why the
sight of Ruth and herself had affected the stranger in so unpleasant a fashion it was difficult
to understand; but the impression remained.  Her eyes travelled upward to the face of Jack
Melland, and marvelled at the contrast.

"His face betrays him, in spite of himself.  His nostrils alone would give him away," she told
herself, smiling.  "He is cross, the other inscrutable; Ruth is frightened, and I am amused.
We look like four school-children seated in a row, with Uncle Bernard as the teacher... When
is the lesson to begin?"

At once, apparently; for Mr Farrell lost no time in preliminaries, but began his explanation
as soon as the young men were seated.

"I have asked you to meet me here as soon as possible after your arrival, for it is better
that we should understand each other from the beginning.  You have thought it strange, no doubt,
that, after having had no communication with your families for so many years, I should suddenly
develop a desire for your company.  Circumstances have, however, materially altered for me
during the last few weeks by the discovery that it is necessary that my affairs should be settled
without delay.

"I have, as you know, no child left to inherit, and as this place is not entailed, it is entirely
in my hands to bequeath as I think fit.  Until now--for reasons which you may perhaps understand--the
idea of making a will has been so painful that I have continually postponed the ordeal; but
my doctor, who is also my old friend, has convinced me that I must delay no longer.

"I am suffering from an affection of the heart which makes it impossible that I can live longer
than a couple of years, and probably the time may be but a few months.  He has urged me, therefore,
to settle business affairs, so that I might spend the remainder of my days undisturbed; but
to decide on a suitable heir is not an easy matter.  I am, as you may have heard, a very rich
man, and I hold strong, and perhaps somewhat unusual, ideas as to the qualifications which
are necessary for the owner of great wealth.  It is not my intention to divide the inheritance
in any way, therefore it is the more important to make a right choice."

He paused for a moment, and the four young people looked up sharply. Victor Druce's eyes roved
quickly from one to the other of his three companions.  Jack Melland's lips closed more tightly
than before. Ruth's cheeks glowed with a carmine flush.  She was the nearest relation; hers
was the first claim!  Her heart beat with quick, sickening thuds; only Mollie looked frankly
curious and unperturbed.

"As I said before," continued Mr Farrell, "we are, so far, complete strangers to each other;
but I judge you all to hold equal rights to anything which I have to leave.  Ruth and Mary
are my nearest legal relations; but my wife's people always ranked with me as my own, and,
other things being equal, I should prefer a male heir.  I make no point of the name; the Court
is not an estate which has descended to me from many generations of ancestors.  My father bought
it from the late owner, so there is no real reason why a Farrell should necessarily inherit.

"It is from one of your number, then, that I shall adopt my heir; but, in order to do so, I
must have some knowledge of your respective characters and attainments.  As I said before,
I hold somewhat unusual views.  What the world in general would probably consider the best
qualification for the owner of a big estate is, in my eyes, an insuperable objection.  What
I look to find, others might regard as a fault.  We all have our own ideas, and must act according
to our lights. I wish then, in the first place, to make your acquaintance but do not be afraid
that I shall make the task too unpleasant.

"For the furtherance of my plan, I should wish you to lead as full and interesting a life as
may be.  The Court has been shut up for years, but its doors can now be thrown open for your
benefit.  You are free to come and go, to invite whom you will, and no doubt the neighbourhood
will be eager to meet you half-way.  My own health will not permit me to arrange your amusements;
but I give you the use of my house, carte blanche as regards expenses, and Mrs Wolff to play
propriety--the rest you must arrange for yourselves.  If each in turn took the management of
affairs for a few weeks at a time, it would meet my views, as helping me to form the necessary
ideas of character and tastes."

There was a simultaneous movement of surprise on the part of the listeners, and one and the
same word was repeated by four pairs of lips--

"Weeks!"

Mr Farrell smiled grimly.

"You are surprised at the time implied.  My invitations were intentionally vague, for I had
not at the time made up my mind as to various details.  I have now decided that for the proper
development of my scheme three months at least will be necessary.  I therefore invite you to
be my guests at the Court during that period."

Again came the involuntary, simultaneous start of surprise, and Jack Melland cried hastily--

"It is impossible!  I am obliged to you, sir; but it is quite impossible, so far as I am concerned.
My business--"

"My--my mother!" cried Ruth.  "We could not leave her so long; she needs our help--"

Mr Farrell interrupted with upraised hand.

"We will defer objections, if you please!  I am prepared to meet and answer them, later on.
For the present I ask you to think quietly over the prospect which lies before you, and to
consider how far such obstacles as you have mentioned should be allowed to stand in the way.
Surely the object is worth some temporary inconvenience or loss.  This house, and all that
it contains, with various properties bringing in an income of over ten thousand a year, will
in due course become the property of one of your number--of the one who best fulfils a certain
condition which I consider essential."

"And the condition--the condition?" queried Mollie eagerly.

Mr Farrell looked at her in silence, while a grim smile passed over his features.

"That," he said slowly--"that, my dear Miss Mary,--will be discovered, with other things,--when
you hear my will read aloud on the day of my funeral?"

CHAPTER EIGHT.

SPECULATIONS.

"Well!" exclaimed Ruth, sinking back in armchair number one, at the right of the bedroom fireplace.

"Well!" exclaimed Mollie, sinking back in armchair number two, facing her sister.  "Likewise,
good sooth!  By my halidom!  Gadzooks!  Of a surety these are great happenings, fair sis!"

"Don't be so tiresome, Mollie!  You make a joke out of everything.  I want to talk over the
position seriously."

"So do I--just dying to.  Go on!  Where shall we begin?"

"With the time, of course.  Three months!  I never dreamt of more than a fortnight, at most.
Do you think we can possibly be spared?"

"I don't think at all--I know!  If it was three years, with such an interest at stake, the
poor little mother would jump at it.  Three months soon pass, and there will be two people
less to feed and wait upon, and a room less to keep in order.  Every little tells when people
are as hard up as we are, and with the savings mother will be able to pay Miss Carter to help
with the mending.  It will be good for Trix, too.  The more you depend upon Trix the more she
rises to the occasion. I have a shrewd suspicion that she is going to cut us out, and be the
show daughter of the family.  Mother will be blissfully happy building castles in the air;
Trix will be blissfully happy playing eldest daughter, and bossing the family.  We shall be
blissfully happy not pretending, but actually being, Berengaria and Lucille.  It's all quite
smooth and easy!"

Ruth heaved a sigh, half convinced, half reluctant.

"That's what you always say!  I see such crowds of objections.  To begin with, I hate the position;
it's awkward and humiliating.  To stay here on approval, studied like specimens in a case;
being on one's good behaviour, and `acting pretty' to try to get a fortune for oneself, away
from other people--bah!  It makes me hot even to think of it.  I should feel a hypocrite!"

"Don't be high-flown, dear; it's quite unnecessary.  You couldn't be a hypocrite if you tried;
you are too ridiculously `proud,' I suppose you would say.  I call it quick-tempered!  If Uncle
Bernard snubs you, you will flare out, fortune or no fortune, and if you feel mopey, mope you
will, if he disinherits you the next moment.  I shall be honest, too, because I'm too lazy
to be anything else; besides, you know, there is always the pleasing reflection that he may
prefer us to be crotchety! Everything is possible where everything is vague.  Imagine how maddening
it would be if we kept our tempers, and smiled sweetly from morning till night, and in the
end he left everything to that cross Mr Melland, because he considered it necessary for the
owner of wealth to have a will of his own!"

Ruth laughed involuntarily.

"You are a goose!  Not much chance of your being the chosen one, I am afraid.  Uncle Bernard
is not in the mood for appreciating nonsense; he is too sad and ill, poor old man!  That's
another hateful thing.  I should love to nurse and coddle him, and read aloud, and be good
to him generally; but if one does, it will seem-- Oh, you know-- you understand!  It's a loathsome
position!"

"If I feel affectionate, I shall act affectionate!  He will probably loathe it, so there's
just as much chance of injuring one's chance as of bettering it.  In fact, if we are to get
on at all, we had better try to forget the wretched money, and behave as if it did not exist.
If anyone had told us a month ago that we should be staying in a big house with two quite good-looking
young men as fellow-guests, and carte blanche to enjoy ourselves as much as we pleased, we
would have thought it too impossibly good to be true; but now that it has come true, we shall
be idiots if we don't make the most of it.  I hope Uncle Bernard keeps to his idea of making
us each master of the ceremonies in turn.  Won't I make the money fly when it comes to my turn!
Picnics and luncheons by day, dances and theatricals by night--one giddy whirl of excitement
the whole time long.  I'll take the old dear at his word, and give no thought to expense, and
entertain the whole countryside until the name of Mollie Farrell is immortalised for ever in
grateful hearts.  I have always credited myself with a genius for social life; now for the
first time you will behold me in the halls of the great, and gaze with surprise at your sister
reigning as queen over the assembled throngs?"

"In your one black dress?"

"Certainly not!  I've thought of that, too.  Suitable equipments must, of course, be part of
the carte blanche."

"I am sure nothing was further from Uncle Bernard's thoughts.  He looks to me like a man who
would never notice clothes, or care what we looked like, so long, of course, as we were respectable.
He has more important things on his mind."

"Humph!"  Mollie tossed her saucy head.  "If he doesn't notice of his own accord, his eyes
must be gently, but firmly opened.  We stay at his special request; at his special request
we entertain and are entertained; it is only reasonable that he should bear the expense of
making our appearance do him credit.  I'll tell him so, too, if he doesn't see it for himself."

"Mollie, you won't!  You shan't!  You never could!"

"Couldn't I?  You wait and see!"

"And if you did I would never touch a farthing.  I warn you, once for all, that it is useless,
so far as I am concerned."

Mollie looked at her sister's flushed, defiant face, and laughed her happy, light-hearted laugh.

"Dear old High-falutin'!  We won't argue about it.  Half a dozen invitations will show you
the soundness of my position better than a hundred discussions.  Meantime, I'm going to dress.
I have a horrible conviction that that maid will return and offer to do `your hair, madam,'
so I mean to be beforehand with her."

Ruth sat still in her chair, enjoying the unwonted luxury of idling, with no disturbing spasm
of conscience to remind her that she ought to be mending or patching, or giving Betty a music
lesson, or helping Mary to hang clean curtains in the drawing-room.  It was delightful to nestle
back against the cushions and study one by one the dainty appointments of the room, and revel
in the unaccustomed sense of space.  Imagine just for a moment--imagine possessing such a home
of one's own!  The house, with its treasures of beautiful and artistic furnishings, which represented
the lifelong gatherings of a man renowned for his taste; the extensive grounds, with gardens
and vineries and forests of glass, providing an endless summer of blossom; the income, that
in itself was a fortune, and held such inexhaustible possibilities of good.  What she could
do with it, if it were only hers!  With one stroke of the pen she would repay the poor old
tired pater for all his goodness in the past, and lift the weight of care for the future from
his shoulders.  She would heap luxuries upon the dear little mother, who was still a child
at heart; so pathetically easy to please that it seemed a sin that she should ever be sad.
The girls should be sent to finishing schools, and the boys given a thorough training to equip
them for their fight in life.  Mollie, of course, should live at the Court, and share equally
in all her possessions; and they would travel, and help the poor, and be kind to everyone,
and never forget the day of small things! or grow arrogant and purse-proud.  Ruth dreamed on
in a passion of longing till Mollie, standing before the dressing-table, with her white arms
raised to her head, caught sight of her face in the mirror, and uttered a sharp exclamation.

"Ruth!  What is it, darling?"

Ruth started nervously and glanced upwards with guilty eyes, but there was nothing alarming
in the aspect of the figure which stood over her, white necked, white armed, with the loosened
golden hair falling round the anxious face.  She caught the outstretched hand, and gripped
it tightly between her own.

"Oh, Mollie, I want it!  I want it dreadfully!  When I think of the possibility I feel half
wild.  If I am disappointed, I believe I shall die!  I can't be unselfish, even for you.  I
want it for myself!"

She was on the verge of tears, but Mollie's matter-of-fact cheeriness had the usual bracing
effect.  She seemed neither shocked nor surprised, but only anxious to soothe.

"Of course you do; so do we all!" she replied easily.  "It's humbug to pretend anything else,
only I'm not going to die, in any case, but live and make myself agreeable to the Chosen. 
If it's you, I shall sponge on you for life, so don't imagine you will have all the fun to
yourself. Now get dressed, and don't think about it any more.  We must look our best to awe
those two superior young men.  I am convinced that they look upon us as country bumpkins, and
it's most important to put them in their proper position at once, so that we may start fair.
If you are going to do your hair in skriggles it will take you an age, so do begin!"

Ruth rose obediently.  "Skriggles" was an inelegant but descriptive title for her most becoming
coiffure, which she had already decided must be adopted for the first eventful evening at the
Court.  She set to work at once, and was half-way through her task when the maid appeared,
as Mollie had prophesied, paused upon the threshold for one horrified moment, and then hurried
forward with an "Allow me, miss!" which could not be gainsaid.

The girls grimaced at one another furtively, but in the end the value of the skilled hands
was proved by a dainty finish to hair and toilette which sent them downstairs agreeably conscious
of looking their best.

CHAPTER NINE.

MR. JACK MELLAND.

In the drawing-room Mr Farrell and his two nephews were standing with their backs to the fire,
in the position affected by mankind in that trying wait before dinner.  Little Mrs Wolff was
stiffly perched upon an uncomfortable chair, twisting her mittened fingers together and looking
supremely uncomfortable, and there appeared to be no attempt at conversation.  Everyone looked
at the two girls as they crossed the wide room, and once again Mollie surprised that curious
gleam of disapproval in Victor Druce's veiled eyes.  Mr Melland was apparently still on his
high horse, a faint flush upon his face, his nostrils curved and dilated.  As for Uncle Bernard
himself, his set face showed no sign of approval or the reverse; he simply bowed to his nieces,
and waved them towards a seat, saying curtly--

"Our party is not complete.  I have asked the vicar and his wife to dine with us, and make
your acquaintance.  They will probably arrive in a few minutes."

"Oh yes!" said Ruth vaguely.  Even Mollie suffered a moment's eclipse, during which she sought
in vain for an appropriate remark.  It was too absurd, she told herself, to sit round the room
like mutes at a funeral. What was the use of a lady chaperon if she could not fill up the gaps
with harmless inanities?  She glanced from one stolid face to another, then made a desperate
plunge.

"What time do the posts go, Uncle Bernard?  We ought to let mother know of our arrival."

"I have already directed a telegram to that effect to be despatched. May I suggest that you
delay any communication on your own part until we have had a future conversation."

Checkmate!  Mollie gave a vague murmur of assent, and cast about for remark number two.

"It seems so funny to be here and to see all the things we have heard about so often!  I recognise
this room quite well from mother's description.  There is an alcove behind me, isn't there,
with a harp in the corner?"

"The harp was removed years ago.  I imagine there are a great many alterations since your mother's
last visit.  The use of the word `funny' is somewhat inappropriate, is it not?  I see nothing
ludicrous in the position."

Check number two!  Mollie's wide-eyed perturbation was almost pathetic in its intensity.  She
was not accustomed to being snubbed in this public fashion, and, after the first shock, a feeling
of resentment brought the colour rushing into her cheeks.

"I meant `curious.'  The two words are often used for each other."

"Mistakenly so.  Many situations are curious which are not in the least degree amusing."

"They are indeed!" was Mollie's mental comment.  "The present, for example; anything much less
festive I fail to imagine."  Her lips twitched involuntarily as the thought passed through
her mind, and, looking up, she met Jack Melland's eyes fixed full on her, with an answering
twinkle in their blue depths.  For one agonising moment she trembled upon the brink of laughter,
when mercifully the door was thrown open to announce the arrival of the vicar and his wife.
Mr Thornton was tall and thin, with a much-lined face full of shrewd kindness and sympathy;
his wife was a pretty, plump little woman, who looked on exceedingly good terms with herself
and the world at large.

"Thank goodness, they will talk!  They look alive, not mere graven images," Mollie said to
herself thankfully, as the necessary introductions were taking place.  Then the squire gave
his arm to Mrs Thornton, Mr Thornton offered his in turn to Mrs Wolff, and Victor Druce, evidently
obeying a previous instruction, paired off with Ruth, leaving Mollie to his companion.

In silence the little company crossed the hall; in silence they seated themselves round the
dinner-table and prepared for the feast.  Ruth's grey eyes were brilliant with excitement as
she turned from side to side.  She did not want to talk; conversation would have been but an
interruption at the moment; she wanted but to look and to think.

The walls were covered with portraits of ancestors--Captain Farrell who sailed the seas with
Nelson's fleet; General Farrell who fought under Wellington; Lord Edward Farrell, the famous
judge; fresh-faced country squires in quaint, old-world costumes.  The dim faces looked down
from their frames with a curious, haunting likeness running through all; and at the head of
the table sat the last of his race, the grim old man to whom death was coming.  Ah, it must
be hard to look back on so good a race, to realise that no son remained alive to carry on the
name, and that one of the strangers now seated round his own table would shortly reign in his
place!

Ruth thrilled with pity; her beautiful eyes grew soft and dreamy; and the clergyman, looking
at her across the table, could scarcely restrain an exclamation of surprise.  He had understood
that Mr Farrell possessed only distant relatives, but this girl was a true chip of the old
block; allowing for difference of age and sex, here was the same face which was repeated again
and again upon the walls--the aquiline features, the melancholy lips, the straight heavy brows.

Mr Thornton knew that the time had come when his host was to choose his successor at the Court,
and, looking from one to the other of the four young people, he personally felt no doubt as
to the one on whom the choice would fall.  Ruth Farrell bore her credentials in her face, and
with a thrill, half painful, half amused, he realised how great a factor in his own life this
slim young girl might be.  As lady of the Court and his own patron, she would have it in her
power to ensure his comfort or the reverse.  Ah, well, well, it was too early to speculate!
The child had a sweet, good face; no doubt all would be well.

While Ruth and the vicar were absorbed in their own thoughts, Mrs Wolff was also silent, overcome
with the weight of responsibility which pressed heavily on her unaccustomed shoulders.  Little
Mrs Thornton prattled of cheery nothings at the other end of the table, and Jack Melland, turning
towards his companion, remarked formally--

"I--ah--I think we have met earlier in the day!"

"In the train, you mean; yes!  We saw you get out at the station, but you disappeared so quickly
that I could not think what had happened to you."

"Nothing mysterious.  A dogcart had been sent for me.  I jumped into it with my bag, and was
out of sight before you had gathered together your possessions."

"Ah, yes; we had boxes in the van."  Mollie tilted her head to its characteristic angle and
smiled at him with wide grey eyes.  "And you watched our toilette across the carriage, little
guessing it was for your own benefit.  We knew that we were to meet other visitors here, but
had no idea who they were or how many there might be.  We imagined walking into the midst of
a big house-party; hence the preparations.  It was only natural we should want to look nice."

"Perfectly!  I am glad I was fortunate enough to see the result, since I suppose no one else--"

Mollie shook her head tragically.

"Not a soul!  Mrs Wolff met us and sent us straight up to our room.  If it had not been for
you, the new gloves would have been wasted on the desert air; but now we can console ourselves
that our trouble was of some use, after all, since at least half the party had the benefit.
Were you also despatched straight upstairs?"

"I was.  Afterwards, Druce and I had tea in the billiard-room, and went on to join you in the
library.  It has been a somewhat trying opportunity; I sympathised with your conversational
efforts before dinner."

Mollie's brows went up at this, and she made a sceptical little grimace.

"That is not my idea of sympathy!  You stood by and watched me flounder without making a effort
to help.  It's not at all pleasant to be snubbed before a roomful of strangers.  You might
easily have remarked that it was a fine day, or that the train was punctual.  Anything is better
than a ghastly silence."

"But, you see, I had had my innings before you arrived.  As a matter of fact I had introduced
those very subjects, and added some original remarks on the beauty of the scenery.  I fared
no better than you, so my fellow-feeling made me sympathise with you, though I had no spirit
to try again."

Mollie laughed under her breath, the influence of her surroundings instinctively subduing the
usual merry trill.  This Mr Melland was an unexpectedly pleasant companion, now that his former
gloom and irritability of manner had disappeared.  It was as if a dreaded prospect had been
removed, and he was luxuriating in recovered freedom.  Mollie wondered what the change of circumstances
could be; time, no doubt, would show; and, when they had reached a greater degree of intimacy,
she would tease him about his sudden change of front, and treat him to a pantomimic imitation
of his former gloomy frowns.  The prospect pleased her, and she laughed again, showing the
pretty dimples in her cheek, while Jack Melland looked at her inquiringly.

"What's the joke?  May I hear it?"

"Oh, nothing--I was just imagining!  All sorts of things fly through one's head, especially
to-day, when we really are in an exciting position.  At home my sister and I have a very quiet
time, and we get most of our excitement in dreams.  We imagine things until they are almost
real.  Don't you know the feeling?"

"No!" cried Mr Melland bluntly.  His brows were arched, his nostrils curved with the old look
of scornful superiority.  "I have no experience of the kind, and I don't want to have.  It's
a dangerous habit.  We have to live among realities, and very commonplace realities, for the
most part; and it unfits one for work to be dreaming of impossibilities."

"No, no, no; it helps one!  It is like a tonic which braces one up for the ordinary routine."

"It is like a sleeping draught--agreeable for the time, but mischievous and relaxing in its
after effects."

Grey eyes met blue with a flash of defiance, then softened into smiles.

"It depends upon disposition," said Mollie firmly.  "We find nothing relaxing about it, but
a great deal of innocent amusement.  When we are out shopping and want something badly and
can't have it, because it costs five shillings and we only possess half a crown, Ruth says
to me, `Let's pretend a letter arrived by the afternoon post to say someone had left us a million
pounds!  What would you do first of all?'  Then we can talk about it for the rest of the walk,
and decide what dresses we would have, and where we should live, and the papers we should have
in the entertaining room, and the furniture in our bedrooms; and we choose things out of all
the shop-windows as we pass, and decide where they shall go.  I've furnished my house so often
that I really know the rooms, and love them into the bargain."

"And when you go back into the real house you are discontented and amazed at the contrast."

"Oh dear, no!  That would be silly.  I am so refreshed by my visit to the castle that I can
laugh over the shabbiness which annoyed me before. You don't think it wrong to read an interesting
book?  Very well, then, why is it wrong to indulge in a little fiction on one's own account?"

"Wrong is rather a strong word, perhaps, but there is a great difference between the two. 
In reading a book you forget yourself in your interest about others; in dreams--excuse me--you
think constantly of yourself, and play the part of hero.  It is a habit which is inclined to
make one consider oneself the most interesting person on earth."

"Well, so you are!  To yourself, I mean; you know you are!" cried Mollie, with an innocent
naivete which made Mr Melland laugh again. It was seldom, indeed, that anyone was honest enough
to confess to self- love, and her candour seemed infectious, for, on the verge of contradicting
her assertion with regard to himself, a sudden recollection rushed through him of his own thoughts,
doubts, conflicts, and final determination of the past twenty-four hours.  Did not every one
of these concern himself as a primary, if not an only, motive?  Was he not exercised, first
of all, by a sense of his own importance, so that the wishes of a dying man availed nothing
against the preservation of his own dignity?  The laugh gave place to a frown as he replied--

"If it is so it ought certainly to be discouraged.  One ought not deliberately to pamper selfishness."

Mollie's eyes dropped to her plate, and her lips pouted in an involuntary grimace.

"Rather inclined to preach," she said to herself naughtily, "and so intensely practical and
matter of fact!  I must devote myself to the education of his higher faculties.  I shall have
something to say to you, Mr Jack Melland, the first time that will of yours comes into opposition
with my own.--`One ought not deliberately to pamper selfishness.'--Delightful sentence!  I
must not forget it."

CHAPTER TEN.

INTRODUCTIONS.

In the drawing-room, after dinner, Mrs Thornton made herself agreeable to the two girls, and
was evidently full of interest and curiosity.

"Having the Court open again will make a great deal of difference to the village in general,
and to ourselves in particular," she said, smiling. "Mr Farrell has been so invalided of late
years that we have seen nothing of him, and it is quite an excitement to dine here again. 
Dr Braithey told us whom we were to meet, and that, of course, added greatly to the pleasure.
I hope you will like the neighbourhood, and enjoy your visit.  You must let me help you in
any way that is in my power.  I hope you will, for I love being with young people and making
them happy."

One glance at the kindly face of the speaker proved the truth of her assertion, and both girls
assented gladly.  A few hours' acquaintance had proved Mrs Wolff to be a mere figurehead of
a chaperon, and Ruth shrewdly suspected that her very weakness had been the attraction in Mr
Farrell's eyes, since, in consequence, she would be less likely to hinder that display of character
and self-will which it was his object to study.  Failing Mrs Wolff, then, it was a comfort
to meet this brisk, motherly woman, who might be depended on as a helpful confidante.

Mollie glanced at the heaped-up fire, and, with a sudden impulse of friendliness, pulled forward
an armchair, saying eagerly--

"Do sit down!  Let us all sit down and be cosy till the men come; and will you tell us about
the neighbourhood and the people we shall know? We are to be here for three months, and uncle
says we can entertain as much as we like.  He wants us to entertain, but of course we must
know the people first.  Do you suppose we shall have many callers?"

Mrs Thornton laughed merrily.

"There's no doubt about that, my dear.  Everybody who is anybody within a radius of a dozen
miles will think of nothing, and speak of nothing, and dream of nothing else but you and your
cousins until they have made your acquaintance.  We have not much to excite us in the country,
and to have the Court open again, with four young people to act as hosts, is a sensation of
the first water.  There will be a stream of callers after you have appeared in church on Sunday.
You will have a busy time driving over the country returning their calls, and after these formalities
are over the invitations will begin.  I don't think you will find any lack of hospitality."

The girls looked at each other with tragic glances which said "One black dress!" so plainly
to their own understanding that it seemed as if everyone else must interpret the meaning. 
Ruth flushed, and asked hurriedly--

"Are there many girls like ourselves living pretty near?"

"Oh dear, yes; girls are never at a discount in a country place.  Let me see, now, how shall
I describe them!  In the village itself there is Dora Braithey, the doctor's daughter, a very
good, useful worker in the parish; and Lettice Baldwin, who lives with her widowed mother;
and the three Robsons, who are what they call good sportsmen, and go in for games; and further
afield there is Honor Edgecombe of Mount Edgecombe, a charming girl, and very musical; and
Grace and Schilla Trevor; and the Blounts at the Moat have a London niece, Lady Margot Blount,
who pays them a long visit every year.  She is staying there now, and is sure to call.  She
is very elegant and distinguished-looking, and we all admire her immensely.  My husband thinks
her a model of everything that a girl should be."

Ruth and Mollie, staring fixedly into the fire, were naughtily conscious of a dislike towards
the immaculate Margot, who had suddenly loomed on their horizon as a formidable rival in the
favour of the neighbourhood, while Mrs Thornton unconsciously proceeded cheerily with her recital--

"Of course there are many more, but I am mentioning the most attractive. We have a few young
men, too, and most of the big houses have constant visitors for shooting or fishing, so that
you can manage to get partners if you want a little hop now and then.  And then, as you would
suppose, I hope you will find time to take an interest in the parish.  I don't ask you to take
up any active work, for, of course, as visitors your time will not be your own, but I should
like to tell you of our various clubs and enterprises."

"I hope you will not only tell us of them, but show them to us as well. Uncle Bernard wishes
us to do exactly as we choose, so our time is our own, and I should like to do some work. 
I should feel so idle doing nothing but enjoying myself," cried Ruth eagerly.

Mrs Thornton's smile of approval had a somewhat wistful expression.

As her husband had done before her, she looked at these two young girls, and wondered if the
time to come would see one of them acting the role of the squire and patron, and as such holding
almost unlimited power over the parish.  They seemed kindly, natural creatures, who would be
well disposed towards the vicar and his family; and a woman had more understanding of little
things than any mere man.

In the flash of an eye Mrs Thornton's mind reviewed the damp patch on her drawing-room wall,
the ill-fitting windows which let in a constant draught; the hopeless ruin of the tiny conservatory,
wherein she reared her precious "bedding-outs."

She could not but remember that other squires not only kept their vicar's house in order, but
assisted in sending sons to college, daughters to finishing schools, and expressed their interest
in the family in a hundred helpful ways; but Mr Farrell had seemed unconscious of the very
existence of her precious olive branches, and had never gone beyond the bare duties of his
position.

Mrs Thornton was no vulgar schemer for her own benefit, but just a mother of a large family,
struggling to make the most of a small income; and a quick repentance for the selfishness of
her dreams prompted the desire to help these two young things who were suddenly called upon
to fill a difficult position.

"Remember, I am always to be found at home or somewhere about the village.  You will soon get
to know my haunts, so that you can run me to earth if you need my services.  Just come in and
out as you like; the oftener you come the better I shall be pleased, for I am so anxious to
help you, if you will allow me."

"We will, we will! it is lovely of you to offer; and do please help us now!" cried Mollie eagerly,
as the sound of an opening door was heard in the distance, and footsteps crossed the hall towards
the drawing-room. "Talk, talk; do talk!  I tried before dinner, and got snubbed for my pains;
and we are such strangers that it is difficult to know what to say next."

Mrs Thornton laughed.

"I'll do what I can," she promised good-naturedly.  "Someone may suggest to Mr Farrell a game
of whist.  He used to be a crack player, so I don't think he can resist the temptation, and
that would leave you young folks free to make each other's acquaintance."

As she spoke the gentlemen entered the room and approached the group by the fireside.  Judging
from their appearance, the last half-hour had not been particularly lively, for the vicar looked
tired and worried, and the young men unmistakably bored.  Mr Farrell's set face showed few
changes of expression, but a faint gleam of pleasure manifested itself at the mention of his
favourite game, and presently the four elders of the party were occupied, while the younger
members stood together in a somewhat embarrassed silence.

Left entirely to their own resources, no one knew what to say or what to do; each girl looked
first at her partner of the dinner-table, and then shyly across at the other stranger who was
to be a daily companion during the next three months.  Ruth met no answering glance, for Jack
Melland was frowningly regarding the carpet; but for the first time Mollie had a direct view
of the eyes which were habitually hidden behind Victor Druce's thick eyelashes, and was surprised
to find how bright and friendly was their expression.

"Shall we investigate the conservatory?" he said at once, as if answering an unspoken appeal.
"They won't want us to stay here and interrupt the game.  I think we had better make a move."

"But may we?  Would Uncle Bernard like it?"

"May we!  Are we not told to amuse ourselves in any way we choose?  Of course we may," he replied
laughingly, leading the way forward, while the others followed, nothing loth.

The conservatory opened out of the drawing-room by means of a long glass door, which, being
shut, made it into a separate room.  A room it was, rather than the ordinary glass passage,
for it had a wide, open floor, broken only by spreading palms standing in wooden boxes, and
in the midst an old-fashioned pink camellia-tree.  Stands of flowers encircled three sides,
and a lamp stood out from the walls in a bracket.  Given a few rugs and accessories, it would
have made an ideal lounge.  As it was, there was no provision for visitors, and it was evident
that no one but the gardener took the trouble to enter.  Mr Druce looked round rapidly, spied
a wooden box under one stand, a stool under another, and brought them forward one after another,
flicking off the dust with his handkerchief.

"You must have something to sit on.  Can you manage with these, or shall I bring chairs from
the drawing-room?  I don't want to make a noise if I can help it."

"No, no; please don't!  These will do perfectly.  But what will you do, and Mr Melland?  You
must not stand all the time."

"Oh, don't trouble about us!  We can look after ourselves," responded Jack Melland, pushing
the flower-pots nearer together on the staging, and lightly swinging himself into the vacant
space.  Victor followed his example, and thrust his hands into his pockets.

For the next few minutes silence reigned while the young men took in and quite obviously admired
the charming picture made by the two girlish figures against the background of flowering plants.

Ruth's stool had been placed against the camellia-tree, and the pink blooms matched the soft
flush in her cheeks, and relieved the sombreness of her black attire.  Thus placed she looked
charmingly pretty, and held herself with an air of dignity, which was a new accomplishment.

Ruth was an adaptive creature, tremendously influenced by the surroundings of the moment. 
At home her little head was wont to droop with despondency, and the consciousness that she
was poor and unknown and shabbily dressed.  At the Court she was intensely, delightfully assured
of being Miss Farrell--of possessing the family features, and of being, so far, the recipient
of her uncle's greatest favour.  And so Ruth now leant back with an air of languid elegance,
smiling sweetly at her companions.

Mollie's bright head peeped from beneath the shadow of a palm.  She held in her hand a spray
of heliotrope, which she had picked in passing, and from time to time bent to smell the fragrance,
with little murmurs of delight.

But Mollie was obviously longing to say something, and when the time came that she met Jack
Melland's eye she suddenly plucked up courage to put it into words.

"Don't you think we ought to introduce ourselves properly?" she cried eagerly.  "We have been
told each other's names, and talked politely at dinner, but that's not really being introduced.
We ought to know something about each other, if we are to be companions here.  I don't know
if you two know each other; but we did not know of your existence until to-day.  My mother
used to stay at the Court when she was a bride, and she loved Aunt Edna, and has often talked
to us about her; but she knew very little of her relations, and for the last twenty years or
more she has never seen Uncle Bernard until he suddenly descended upon us last week.

"We live in the North--in Liverpool.  People in the South seem to think it is a dreadful place;
but it isn't at all.  The river is splendid, and out in the suburbs, where we live, it's very
pretty, near a beautiful big park.  The people are nice, too.  We are rather conceited about
ourselves in comparison with the people in the towns round about.  You have heard the saying,
`Manchester man, Liverpool gentleman,' and we are proud of our county, too.  `What Lancashire
thinks to-day, England thinks to-morrow.'  I really must boast a little bit, because South-
country people are so proud and superior, and seem to think that no one but themselves knows
how to speak or behave.  Someone said to me once, `You live in Liverpool, then why haven't
you a Lancashire accent?'  I was so cross.  What should she have thought of me if I had said,
`You live in London, why don't you speak like a Cockney?'  We are not at all ashamed, but very
proud indeed, of coming from the North-countree."

  "`Oh, the oak and the ash,
  And the bonnie ivy tree,'"

chanted Victor, in a pleasant baritone voice, at the sound of which Mollie flushed with delight,
and cried eagerly--

"Ah, you are musical!  That's nice.  We must have some grand singing matches, but you mustn't
sing that ballad.  It's Ruth's special property.  She sings it with such feeling!

  "`And the lad that marries me,
  Must carry me home to my North-coun-tree!'"

"Mollie!"  Ruth's tone was eloquent of reproof, but Mollie only laughed, and said easily--

"Oh well, of course, if you inherit the Court you will have to change your plans.  I wish I
could lift it up bodily and put it down among the dear Westmorland mountains; but I'm afraid
that's impossible.  I think that is all the history we have.  No two girls could possibly have
led a less eventful life.  We have had no money to travel and see the world, and we are not
in the least bit accomplished, but we have had a happy time all the same, and we mean to be
happy, whatever happens; don't we, Ruth?"

Ruth did not answer, but sat with downcast eyes, staring at the ground. She more than half
disapproved of Mollie's candour, despising herself the while for so doing, so she preserved
a dead silence, until Jack Melland nobly stepped into the breach.

"Well, if you are North-country, Miss Mollie, I suppose I am Colonial. I was born in India,
where my father's regiment was stationed.  He died when I was a youngster, and my poor little
mother had a hard struggle to keep herself and me.  If a fortune had come to us in those days
it would have been a godsend, and she would probably be with me now; but she died eight years
ago, and I am alone in the world, with no one to think of but myself.  I have dingy diggings
and a garrulous landlady, but, like you, I manage to have a very good time.  I am interested
in my work--I'm interested in life generally.  I mean to make something out of it before I
am done."

He threw back his head with a proud, self-confident gesture.  Young, strong, high-spirited,
he felt at that moment that the world lay at his feet.  All things seemed possible to his unaided
powers, and the thought of help was repugnant rather than welcome.  The two girls looked at
him with the involuntary admiration which women pay to a strong man, while Victor Druce smiled
his slow, inscrutable smile.

"A good thing for you that you are not in my profession, Melland!  A barrister can't push;
he must sit still and wait his turn.  I have been waiting a long time, and I can't say that
I seem much nearer the Woolsack.  Still, one can amuse oneself in London, and I have my home
in the country to which I can retire whenever I need a rest.  My old parents are alive, and
one sister--an invalid.  Altogether, I have nothing to complain of in the past, and the future
looks pleasant just now.  Three months in this charming place--in such society!"

Victor Druce made a graceful little bow, which took in both the girls, and his glance lingered
on Mollie bending forward, the spray of heliotrope still raised to her face.

"Stealing already, Miss Mollie!  You will get into trouble with the authorities.  How do you
know that plant was not being specially preserved for exhibition at a show?"

"I hope it wasn't; but it's no use telling me to do as I like, and then to object if I pick
a flower.  I shall pick them every day--several times a day.  I shall always be picking them!
I think I shall take the care of this house altogether, and do the watering and snip off the
dead leaves.  I love snipping!  And I shall arrange the flowers on the table, too; they are
very badly done--so stiff.  Just like a man's taste!"

The two men smiled at each other, while Ruth protested quickly--

"No, you can't, Mollie.  I'm the eldest, and I've `barleyed' it already. You can arrange the
vases in the drawing-room, if you like."

"Thank you, ma'am!" said Mollie calmly.  "Just as you like."

Judging from the fervour with which she had stated her intentions a moment earlier, the listeners
expected that she would dispute her sister's mandate and hardly knew how to account for her
unruffled composure.  But, in truth, Mollie was already reflecting that flowers took a long
time to arrange satisfactorily, and that it would be a bore to saddle herself with a regular
duty.  Much more fun to let Ruth do it, and criticise the results!  She sniffed daintily at
the heliotrope, turning her head from side to side to examine the possibilities of the conservatory.

"Well, anyway, I shall take this place in hand!  It will make a lovely little snuggery, with
rugs on the floor and basket-chairs everywhere about, and an odd table or two to hold books
and work, and tea when we like to have it here.  I'll have a blind to the door, too, so that
we shan't be surprised if visitors are shown into the drawing-room.  Is there a door of escape,
by the way?  I hate to be penned up where I can't run away to a place of safety."  She peered
inquiringly round the trunk of the palm, whereupon Victor Druce slid down from his perch, and
walked to the further end of the floor.

"Yes, there's a door here.  If you see anyone coming for whom you have a special aversion you
can get out, and hide in the shrubbery.  I promise not to tell.  Perhaps I may come with you.
I am not fond of afternoon calls."

"Don't encourage her, please, Mr Druce," said Ruth quickly.  "Mollie talks a lot of nonsense
which she doesn't mean; but if people are kind enough to come here to see us, she must not
be so rude as to refuse to see them.  I am sure Uncle Bernard would be very angry if we did
not receive them properly."

But Mollie was obstinate this time, and refused to be put down.

"How do you know?" she asked rebelliously.  "He might be very pleased with me for sharing his
own retiring tastes!  He said himself that he approved of what other people would consider
a fault.  Perhaps he likes unsociability.  There's as much chance of that as anything else!"

Victor Druce came back from his tour of investigation, but instead of taking his former seat,
leant up against the stem of a huge palm-tree, whose topmost leaves touched the glass roof,
folded his arms and looked down at the two girls with an intent, curious scrutiny.

"It's an odd position," he said slowly, "a very odd position for us all to be plunged in at
a moment's notice!  None of us have any knowledge of Mr Farrell's tastes, so any attempts to
please him must be entirely experimental.  If we please him we may thank our good fortune;
if we offend, we can, at least, feel innocent of any bad intentions.  It's rather a disagreeable
position, but I expect the poor old fellow shirks being left to himself any longer, though
he would die rather than acknowledge it.  It's dull work being left alone when one is ill.
Personally, it is extremely inconvenient for me to be away from home for three months, but
I shall manage it somehow.  One can't refuse a request from a man in his condition, and it
would be a pleasure to cheer the poor old fellow a bit, even at the cost of one's own comfort."

There was silence for a moment after he had ceased speaking.  Jack Melland stared at the ground,
and swung his feet gently to and fro. Ruth knitted her black brows, and Mollie looked puzzled
and thoughtful. It was a kind speech.  She would have liked to admire it thoroughly, but--did
it ring quite true?  Was there not something unnatural in the avoidance of any reference by
the speaker to his own possible gain?

"I'm afraid I didn't think much of Uncle Bernard; I was too busy thinking of myself.  I want
to have a good time!" she said bluntly. "It's a lovely, lovely house, and the grounds are lovely,
and the spring flowers are coming up, and we can live out of doors, and be as happy as the
day is long.  I am not going to worry my head about the money, or anything else.  I'll be nice
to Uncle Bernard in my own way, as nice as he will let me; but he said that we could enjoy
ourselves, and I am going to take him at his word, and do every single thing I like.  It's
an opportunity which may never occur again, as the shop people say in their circulars, and
it would be foolish not to make the most of it."

"I want the money!" said Ruth clearly.  The pretty flush had faded from her cheeks, and she
looked suddenly wan and white.  The hands which were resting on her knee trembled visibly.
She had evidently strung herself up to what she considered a necessary confession, and her
eyes turned to one after another of her companions in wistful apology.

"I want it dreadfully!  I have been poor all my life, and have longed to be rich, and I would
rather live here, in this house, than anywhere else in the world.  If we are going to live
together and be friends we ought to be honest with each other from the beginning.  It's selfish,
but it's true!  I want the money, and I mean to do every single thing in my power to get it."

"Bravo!" cried a man's voice suddenly.  Mollie was frowning and biting her lips in obvious
discomfort; Victor Druce's drooping lids once more hid his eyes from sight as he stood with
folded arms leaning against the palm.  It was Jack Melland who had spoken--Jack Melland, roused
for once to display unqualified approval and enthusiasm.  He bent forward on his seat, hands
in his pockets, his tall, lithe figure swaying gently to and fro as he faced Ruth with his
bright blue eyes.

"Bravo, Miss Farrell!  I admire your honesty, and wish you good luck. You are perfectly justified
in doing all you can to gain your point, and I sincerely hope you may be successful.  It is
only right that a Farrell should inherit the Court, and if you were the old man's grand-daughter,
you could not possibly be more like him."

Ruth flushed, but did not reply.  Victor Druce's measured voice cut like a sword across the
silence.

"You are unselfish, Melland!  Are you quite sure that you share the honesty which you admire
so much in Miss Farrell?  Have you forgotten how the question affects yourself?"

Jack Melland jumped lightly to the ground and straightened his long back.

"Unselfish or not, it's the truth.  The question does not affect me at all.  I am not going
to stay!"

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

AN EARLY DECISION.

"I am not going to stay," said Jack Melland; and whatever his faults might be, he looked and
spoke like a man who knew his own mind, and would abide thereby.

His three companions stared at him in silence, and one of the three at least felt a distinct
sinking of the heart.

"I was beginning to like him; we got on quite famously at dinner, and I thought we were going
to have ever such a good time together.  Now we shall be a wretched uncomfortable three, and
Mr Druce will like Ruth best, and I shall be out in the cold.  How horrid!  How perfectly horrid!"
grumbled Mollie to herself.

Just because she was so perturbed, however, she would not allow herself to speak, but put on
an elaborate display of indifference, while Victor asked curiously--

"You mean that?  May one ask your reason?"

"Oh, certainly.  I never looked upon myself as having the slightest claim upon Mr Farrell,
and I don't care to ruin my business prospects for the sake of an off-chance.  Besides, the
whole position is unpleasant; I object to being kept `on approval,' with the consciousness
that if I allow myself to be ordinarily agreeable I shall at once be credited with sponging
for the old man's favour.  I am quite satisfied with my own lot, without any outside assistance."

"Don't you care about money, then?" asked Ruth timidly.

Jack Melland threw back his head with an air of masterful complacency.

"I care about making money.  That is to say, I love my work, and wish it to be successful,
but I am keen on it more for the sake of the interest and occupation than for what it brings.
A few hundreds a year supply all that I want, and I should not care to be burdened with a big
fortune.  If you come into this place, Miss Farrell, I shall be grateful to you if you will
ask me down for a few days' shooting in the autumn, but I shall never envy you your responsibility.
To kick my heels here in idleness for three solid months, and know that the business was suffering
for want of my presence--nothing would induce me to do it!"

But at this Mollie found her tongue, indignation spurring her to speech.

"You are not very polite to the rest of us!  I should not have thought it would be such a great
hardship to stay in a lovely big house with three young companions, when summer was coming
on, too!  I should think there are one or two people in the world who would like it even a
little better than poking in a stuffy office from morning until night.  But there's no accounting
for tastes.  When you are grilling with heat in the City you can think of us sitting under
the trees eating strawberries, and thank Fate you are so much better off.  We promise not to
send you any.  It might remind you too painfully of the country!"

"Mollie!" cried Ruth in sharp reproof; but Jack laughed with good- natured amusement.

"Oh, I deserve it, Miss Farrell!  My remarks sounded horribly discourteous.  I assure you if
I had the time to spare I should thoroughly enjoy staying on for a time under the present conditions;
but as it is quite impossible to remain for three months, I might as well depart at once. 
I don't suppose Mr Farrell will wish to keep me under the circumstances."

It appeared, however, Jack Melland was wrong in his surmise, for when he announced his decision
to his host before bidding him good-night, the old man looked at him coldly and replied--

"I thought I had explained that we would discuss objections at a later date.  May I ask what
limit you had mentally fixed to your visit when you did me the honour of accepting my invitation?"

"I hardly know--this is Monday.  I thought, perhaps until Saturday, or, at the longest, a week."

Mr Farrell waved his hand in dismissal.

"We will leave it for a week, then.  On Monday morning next I will discuss the position as
fully as you wish.  Now, if either of you young gentlemen cares to smoke, the billiard-room
is at your service.  Please ring for anything you require.  Meantime, as it is past my usual
hour for retiring, I wish you a very good-night."

"Checkmate, old fellow!" cried Victor Druce, as the door closed behind the stooping figure;
but Jack deigned no reply.

The cloud had returned to his forehead, his nostrils were curved with annoyance and thwarted
self-will.

The cloud was still there when he came down to breakfast next morning, and did not lighten
even at the sight of the well-appointed breakfast- table, and the two pretty girls who were
seated thereat.  Some meals may be more attractive abroad than at home.  A French dinner, for
example, has certain points above an English dinner; but we give way to none as regards our
breakfast--that most delightful of meals to the strong and healthy, especially in springtime,
when the sunshine pours in at the open window, and the scent of flowers mingles with the aroma
of freshly made coffee.

The breakfast-table of the Court had all the attractions which one instinctively associates
with old country houses.  The massive, old- fashioned silver, the revolving stand in the centre,
the plentiful display of covered dishes to supplement the cold viands on the sideboard; and,
as Mr Farrell invariably remained in his own room until lunch-time, the restraint of his presence
was removed.

Little Mrs Wolff busied herself with the duties behind the urn, and Ruth and Mollie in serge
skirts and spick and span white blouses looked as fresh as paint, and a great many times as
pretty.  They were laughing and chatting with Victor Druce, who had donned Norfolk jacket and
knickerbockers, and was quite the country gentleman both in appearance and in his manner of
leisurely good-humour.

The entrance of Jack in what are technically called "Store clothes," with a gloomy frown upon
his forehead, seemed to strike a jarring note in this cheerful scene, and both girls were conscious
of a distinct feeling of grievance against the offender.  Was it so dreadful a fate to be doomed
to spend a whole week in their society?  Need a man look as if his last hope in life were extinguished
because Fate kept him away from the City for seven days, and placed him instead in the sweet
green country, with three companions of his own age who--to put it mildly-- were not perfect
ogres in appearance!

The necessary greetings were observed.  Jack helped himself to a bowl of porridge, and, looking
up, asked discontentedly--

"Hasn't the newspaper arrived?"

"Not yet, sir; it will be here by ten o'clock, sir," the butler replied; and Mollie pulled
down her lip with an expression of solemn propriety, and added--

"But perhaps I can relieve your anxiety in the meantime.  Cotton is down twenty points, very
strong and steady, and the Bears are making fortunes.  `Mauds' are fluctuating, but `Louisa
Christinas' are in great demand; everybody is rushing after them.  The Bank rate is ten and
a half, and Consols have gone up two per cent.  General market firm, with a tendency to drop."

"My good child, what nonsense are you talking!" cried Ruth aghast, and the two young men exchanged
glances and burst into a laugh; even Jack laughed, though such a feat had seemed impossible
a moment before.

"What a thrilling report!  You make me more impatient than ever.  It is just like my luck to
be out of the way when there is a chance of a good thing, though, after all, I don't know if
the wisest plan would not be to sell everything one had, and put the money in the bank--eh,
Druce? Ten and a half per cent!  Where do you get your knowledge, Miss Mary?"

"Oh, I see things in the newspapers, and I hear the pater talking to his friends.  Don't call
me `Miss Mary' please, it sounds far too quiet and proper for me.  I am never called anything
but Mollie, except when I overspend my allowance, and mother feels it her duty to scold me.
Are you on the Stock Exchange, Mr Melland?  What sort of business is it which you find so attractive?"

"I am afraid you would not be much wiser if I tried to explain.  We are what is called `brokers';
but there are an endless variety of businesses under the same name.  I have nothing, however,
to do with `Mauds' and `Christinas'!"

"Neither have I," volunteered Victor smilingly, "To tell the truth, I have no money to invest,
Briefs don't come my way, and I am at present occupied listening to more fortunate fellows,
and thinking how much better I could plead myself.  It palls at times, but I am fond of the
profession, and have no wish to change it."

"No," said Mollie reflectively.  "The wigs are becoming!" and when the two young men leant
back in their chairs and roared with laughter, she blushed and pouted, and looked so pretty
that it did one good to see her.

The three earlier comers had finished their meal by this time, but they sat still until Jack
had disposed of the toast and marmalade which makes the last breakfast course of every self-respecting
Briton; then they rose one after the other, strolled over to the open window, and faced the
question of the day--

"What shall we do?"

It was Ruth who spoke, and at the sound of her words the shadow came back to Jack's brow.

"Yes, what shall we do?  Think of it--three months--twelve weeks-- eighty-four separate days
to lounge away with the same question on your lips!  I'd rather be sentenced to hard labour
at once.  Life is not worth living without work.  I'd rather be a clerk on sixty pounds a year
than stagnate as a country squire."

"You would be a very bad squire if you did stagnate!" cried Mollie spiritedly, throwing back
her little head, and looking up at him with a flash of the grey eyes.  "You would have your
tenants to look after, and your property to keep in order, and the whole village looking to
you to lead every scheme of pleasure or improvement, and the vicar looking to you to be his
right hand, and all the growing boys looking to you to help them to a start in life, and the
old people expecting you to make their last days easy.  You would be the hardest-worked man
in the country if you did half the work that was waiting for you, and it would be unselfish
work, too--thinking of others, and not of yourself."

Jack looked at her, and his face softened.

"That's true," he said frankly.  "I'm sorry!  You are right, and I am wrong.  I'm in a bad
temper, and can't see things in their right light to-day.  Of course, if one really settled
down to it, there would be plenty to do; it's when one is only playing with the position that
time drags."

"Well, it ought not to drag to-day, at all events.  We must be very dull if we cannot amuse
ourselves in surveying the domain, and seeing all there is to be seen.  I am going to put on
my hat this minute and examine the gardens, and go down to the stables to look at the horses.
If anyone likes to come too, they may, but my plans are fixed," cried Mollie, nodding her saucy
head; and at the magic word "stables," a ray of interest lit up the two masculine faces.

Ten minutes later the four young people were strolling down the drive, the girls with serge
coats over their white blouses, and sailor-hats on their heads, the men wearing their cloth
caps with an evident air of enjoyment.  They turned the corner of the house, and coming round
to the south side uttered simultaneous exclamations of surprise and delight.

Along the entire length of the house ran an enormously wide terrace edged with a balustrade,
from the centre of which a flight of marble steps led to an Italian garden, its green sward
and stiffly outlined flower-beds flanked by a quantity of curiously cut shrubs.

Beyond this garden the ground dipped sharply, showing first a glade of trees whose fresh spring
foliage contrasted with the dark colours of the evergreens; then came a glimpse of a lake,
a sweep of park; and beyond all a glorious, wide-stretching view over the countryside.  Perched
upon one of the highest sites for miles around, this terraced walk afforded such a panorama
of beauty as is rarely to be found even in our well- favoured isles, and withal the beauty
was of that peaceful, home-like nature which irresistibly endears itself to the heart.

The four young people stood in silence gazing from side to side, and into each mind, even that
of the rebellious Jack himself, there crept the same thought.  This was indeed a goodly heritage,
whose owner would be an enviable person!  The possibility of possessing it as a home was worth
a far greater sacrifice than anything which had been demanded of themselves.

In those few minutes of silence dreams ran riot, and finally found vent in words.

"When the Court belongs to me I shall have an awning put up on this terrace and sit here all
day long," said Mollie; as usual the first to break the silence.

"I shall have a table brought out, and breakfast here every fine morning," said Ruth.

"I'll smoke here after dinner!" said Victor.

"I'll do ditto in every case!" said Jack, then caught himself up sharply--"when I come to visit
the Chosen, that is to say!  Of course, I'm out of the running.  What are you smiling at, Miss
Mollie?"  For, turning towards her, he had seen the grey eyes light up with a merry twinkle.
She shook her head, however, refusing to gratify his curiosity, and sped rapidly down the broad
marble steps.

"He is beginning to have qualms!  The very first morning, and for a moment his resolution wavered.
The spell is working," she told herself triumphantly; for, despite his lack of gallantry, both
girls had already candidly admitted that upon Jack's going or staying depended a great part
of the pleasure of the next three months.  "Don't persuade him; don't mention the subject at
all.  Let him think we don't care how he decides.  Men are contradictious creatures, and the
less he is urged the more likely he is to give way," argued Ruth the experienced.  And Mollie
dutifully agreed.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

A NOVEL EXPERIENCE.

Down the winding path, the visitors, as they walked together, came upon masses of daffodils,
standing up erect and golden from the carpet of dead leaves which covered the ground.  Not
the ordinary common or garden daffodil, charming as it is, but named varieties of every description--
white trumpeted Horsefieldi, stately yellow Emperors, Bari Conspicui with its dainty outline
of orange; these, and a dozen others were growing in patches, not in dozens or scores, but
in literal hundreds, beneath the budding trees.  There were violets, too; and white and purple
and golden saxifrages peeping out between the stones which bordered the trickling stream--a
scene of enchantment, indeed, for City eyes accustomed to gaze only on bricks and mortar. 
The girls were wild with delight, and flitted about gathering specimens of the different flowers;
while the two young men were content to watch them with an air of masculine superiority.

"What is the use of burdening yourselves with all those things at the very beginning of our walk?"

"They aren't a burden, they are a joy.  Hold them for me, please, while I get some more," replied
Mollie, laying a stack of long-stemmed beauties in Jack's arms, regardless of his look of dismay.
"Don't crush them; I want them kept quite fresh."

"What are you going to do with them, if I might ask?  There are plenty in the house.  It's
a pity to cut them just to waste."

"I wouldn't waste them for the world, the beautiful darlings!  I'm going to send them home
to mother.  We will pack them in a box, and take them down to the post-office this afternoon.
It will provide honest work for the afternoon," retorted Mollie.

She was too happy, too supremely happy, to be stiff and formal.  As she darted from one flower-bed
to another she looked like an incarnation of the bright spring morning.  There was no room
in her mind for doubts and fears.  The future simply did not exist; the present was all-sufficient.

From the gardens the quartette strolled onwards past the lake, and across the wide park to
the further gates; then, returning, paid a visit to the stables.  The groom greeted them with
a smile, which showed that he had anticipated their coming; and, like the other servants, hailed
with delight a return to livelier days.

"The horses will get some work now, I hope, ma'am," he said, touching his forehead as he addressed
himself to Ruth, as the head of the party. ("The Farrell eyebrows again!" said Mollie to herself.)

"They have had it far too easy for a long time back.  The master's fond of horses, and we need
a good many for driving up these steep hills, as everything has to be brought up from the station;
but it's regular gentle exercise as suits 'em best.  I've a nice little mare as would carry
you, if you'd care to try her.  She's in this box.  Fanny, we call her.  Whoa!  Fanny, old
girl, come and show yourself!  Nice gentle creature, you see, miss: no temper in her."

"But I don't ride," began Ruth, smiling.  "I should like to very much; and I don't think I
should be nervous, but--"

"Oh, I'd love to ride!  Is there a horse for me, too?  And would you teach us--would you? 
Could we come down every day and have a lesson?" interrupted Mollie impetuously.

And the groom wheeled round to face her, and touched his forehead again, his face one smile
of delight.

"Ay, would I, miss!  Proud to do it.  Many's the one I've taught to ride in my time.  You settle
any hour you like, and I'll have the horses ready for you, and take you a turn across the park.
There's some old side-saddles put away in the loft.  I'll have 'em down, and put in order for
ye.  And the gentlemen?  You'll not be needing any lessons, I'm thinking."

"Oh no!  I think I can manage to sit any horse you have here," replied Victor in a slightly
superior tone.

Jack, however, shook his head, and said--

"No use for me.  I can't ride, and it's no use beginning.  I'm only here for a week."

The groom looked the surprise he was too well trained to express.

"Indeed, sir.  Well, I can give you a mount if you change your mind.  It wouldn't take long
to get your seat; and it's pleasant exercise these spring days.  The carriages are round this
way, miss.  There's a pretty little cart you might like to drive yourself."

He led the way forward; but while the others followed, Mollie hung behind, blocking Jack's
way.  Something prompted her to speak, an impulse too strong to be resisted.

"Do learn!" she cried entreatingly.  "Learn with us.  Why won't you?  It would be such fun.
You said you hated to be idle.  It wouldn't be wasted time if you learnt a useful accomplishment."

"Hardly useful to me, I am afraid, Miss Mollie.  I have no money for horses.  My only acquaintance
with them is from the top of a City omnibus."

"But you can't tell what might happen.  We might go to war again, and you might want to volunteer.
You might grow rich.  Besides, you volunteered to come and stay with the `Chosen,' and then
you will certainly find it useful.  So you will join us, won't you?"

Jack laughed and hesitated, looking down at the flushed, eager face.  It seemed a very trifling
matter.  He could not tell that with the acceptance or refusal of this light request the whole
of his future destiny was involved.  He only thought that Mollie was a charmingly pretty girl,
and that it would be amusing to practise riding by her side.

"Well! since you put it like that, I can't refuse," he answered laughingly.  "We will learn
together, Miss Mollie, and good luck to our efforts."

"But what about the riding-habits?" asked Ruth.

"We must get them," said Mollie.

"Where?" asked Ruth.

"At a tailor's," said Mollie.  "Bond Street, for choice; only it would be difficult to arrange
about fitting.  I'm not at all sure that we shan't have to pay a visit to town on this matter
of clothes.  For the present I mean to consult that maid, and see what can be done until we
can get habits well made for us.  And--who knows?--there may be some old things stored away
somewhere which will come in handy.  Anyway, I'm going to begin lessons to-morrow, habit or
no habit.  You can do as you like."

As there was no time to be lost, the maid was summoned only to proclaim her inability to manufacture
riding attire in the space of twenty-four hours, or to produce the same from the household
treasures.

"There is the mistress's habit, of course, but that was locked away with her other clothes;
and even if I could get at it I wouldn't dare to use it.  Mr Farrell keeps everything she wore,
and nobody touches them but himself.  There's a very good tailor at Bexham, miss--only half
an hour's rail from here.  Many of the ladies go to him for their things."

"But we want something now--at once!  Something to wear to-morrow. Surely you can think of
something?  Mr Farrell said we were to ask you for everything we wanted, and this is the first
thing we have asked for. You must suggest something!" cried Mollie imperiously.

Thus adjured, Emma pursed up her lips, and wrinkled her forehead, leant her head on one side,
and stared at the ceiling for inspiration. Presently it came, for the frown disappeared, the
lips relaxed into a smile.

"Well, miss," she said, "there's the parson's young ladies; they are nearly as big as you,
though they are still at school.  They ride with the father in the holiday, for the squire
let's them have a mount from the stables whenever they send up.  Their habits will be at home,
lying idle.  They are not much for style, of course, but for a few days, until you have time
to get fitted yourself--"

"Emma, you are an angel!  It's a splendid idea!  Mrs Thornton begged us to let her help in
any way she could.  We'll call this very afternoon, when we go down to post off the flowers,
and I'm sure she will be delighted to lend them.  Now we can have our first lesson to-morrow.
That's glorious!  I do hate to wait when I have planned anything nice."

At luncheon Mr Farrell made his appearance, and listened with polite indifference to the history
of the morning's doings as volunteered by his guests.  He asked no questions, made no suggestions,
and retired into the library the moment the meal was over for his daily perusal of the Times.
Here for the first time he discovered the inconvenience of the novel interruption to his solitude,
for the newspaper was missing from its accustomed place, and, on ringing to make inquiries,
he was informed that Mr Melland had carried it off to the billiard-room.

"Tell Mr Melland, with my compliments, I should be obliged if he would allow me to have it
for the next hour--and order two copies for the future," he said grimly.

And five minutes later Jack appeared in person the bearer of the newspaper and frank apologies.

"I'm really awfully sorry!  I did not know you had not seen it.  Would you care for me to read
aloud any article?  I should be glad to be of use."

"Thank you.  My eyes are still quite useful.  I prefer to read for myself."

Jack had the good sense to depart without further protest, and Mr Farrell stretched himself
on his big chair with a sigh of relief.  He took no pleasure in his guests, whose bright young
presence depressed him by reviving memories of happier days.  If it had not been for the necessity
of choosing an heir, he would have cherished his solitude as his dearest possession.  He congratulated
himself, however, that by reserving one room for his own use he could be still safe from interruption,
and, turning to a leading article, read the first few paragraphs with leisurely enjoyment.
The writing was excellent, the views irreproachable, in that they exactly coincided with his
own.  He turned with anticipatory pleasure to the article next in order, when the sound of
a light tap-tap came to the door, and Ruth appeared upon the threshold, blushing shyly.

"Uncle Bernard, Mrs Wolff says that you always read the Times after luncheon...  Would it be
any help if I read aloud what you wish to hear? Sometimes, when pater is tired--"

"I am obliged to you.  I require no help of the sort.  Is there any other subject on which
you wished to speak to me?"

The tone was so suggestive of concealed wrath that Ruth quailed before it, and the faltering
"No" was hardly audible across the room.  Mr Farrell lifted the paper from his knee so that
his face was hidden from view.

"Then you will forgive my remarking that I prefer to be undisturbed.  We shall meet in the
drawing-room for tea."

Ruth shut the door, advanced a few steps into the hall, and stamped her foot violently upon
the floor.  The thick Turkey carpet reduced the noise to the faintest echo, but an answering
laugh sounded from behind a screen, and Jack Melland's eyes looked quizzically into her flushed
face.

"Allow me to sympathise.  I was sent about my business a few minutes ago.  Took back the Times
by request, and ventured to offer to read aloud--"

"Oh, so did I!  His eyes looked so tired, that I long to do something! It's like living in
an hotel, to take everything and do nothing in return, but if he is so cross and glares like
that I shall never dare to offer again.  Do you suppose it will go on like this all the time?
Will he avoid us entirely except at meal-times?  Shall we never get to know him really?  If
it is like that, I don't think I can stand it.  I shall run away and go home!"

Jack looked down at her with a kindly sympathy.

"Ah, well, it's early days to judge!  I don't think it would be consistent with Mr Farrell's
plans to remain a stranger.  Opportunities are bound to arise as the days pass by.  Don't worry
about it, but enjoy yourself while you can.--I am going to sit out on the terrace.  Will you
come, too?  It will be quite warm so long as the sun lasts."

They strolled away together, to make acquaintance in a quiet tete-a- tete, while once more
interruption approached the library in the shape of Mollie, primed for battle.  She rapped
at the door, received a low growl by way of reply, and had no sooner crossed the threshold
than an infuriated voice startled her ears.

"I tell you no!  I want no help.  I can read without assistance.  Am I stone-blind that I cannot
be left in peace to read my paper, as I have done these forty years?  How many times over have
I to answer the same question?"

"But--but--I haven't asked you anything yet!" gasped Mollie blankly. Eyes and lips alike were
wide with amazement, but instead of retiring at full speed, as the other two visitors had done
before her, she shut the door carefully and advanced towards the fire.  "What did you think
I was going to say?"

"I have already had two interruptions in the last half-hour; two offers to have my news read
aloud--a thing I detest.  I conclude you have come on the same mission?"

"No!"  Mollie shook her head, half penitent, half amused.  "Indeed such a thing never entered
my mind.  I was selfish enough to be thinking of myself--not you.  Something is worrying me.
May I sit down and talk to you about it, Uncle Bernard?"

She drew forward a chair even as she spoke, and Mr Farrell made no objection.  The Times lay
on his lap, his thin hands crossed above it, while his sunken eyes were fixed upon the girl's
face with a curious scrutiny.

"If it is any argument about going or staying, I have already explained--"

"Ah, but it isn't!  I am going to stay.  I love staying!  I don't know when I have been so
happy in my life as I've been to-day, wandering about this sweet old place.  It was the most
curious feeling this morning before you were down--like living in an enchanted castle where
the owner had disappeared!  When I gathered the flowers I felt quite like Beau--" She drew
herself up sharply--"They were such lovely flowers!"

A short laugh proved that the interruption had come too late.

"As I said before, Miss Mary, you are not overburdened with modesty!  I am obliged for my part
of the simile!"

But the speaker's eyes were twinkling with quite the most amiable expression Mollie had yet
seen, and she laughed unabashed.

"Ah, well, one description is as exaggerated as the other.  I didn't mean to say it; it just
popped out.  You know that I didn't mean to be rude.  I wanted to speak to you about something
very important--to us, at least.  Ruth will be scandalised, but it's bound to come out sooner
or later, and I want to understand our position...  We told you this morning that we proposed
to learn riding."

"You did."

"And you made no objection."

"On the contrary, I quite approved.  It is almost essential for your own comfort and convenience
it you wish to enjoy a country life."

"Yes! so we thought.  But there is one great objection.  We have no habits."

"Indeed!"

"No; of course, we have never ridden at home."

"I presume not."

"And we cannot ride without habits.  Emma, the maid, suggested that Mrs Thornton might lend
us her daughters' just for a few days; but we cannot keep them long."

"Certainly not!"

Mr Farrell made his remarks with an air of polite indifference, which was peculiarly baffling.
It was evident that no lead was to be expected from him, and that Mollie would have to put
her request in the plainest possible words.  Her lips were pressed together in a momentary
hesitation between embarrassment and laughter; then she thought of the lecture she would receive
from Ruth if her errand ended in failure, and grew strong again.  Her eyes met those of Uncle
Bernard still fixed intently on her face.

"I wanted to ask you what we were to do about them, and about clothes altogether!  You know
we are very poor.  Ruth and I have fifteen pounds a year to dress on.  You have never been
a girl, so you don't understand what that means; but though we can get along on that at home
and could look respectable for a few days' visit, we can't manage as we are for three whole
months, especially when you wish us to go about, and have parties here, and meet your friends
on their own terms.  We have only those black evening-dresses which you saw last night, and
girls can't always wear the same things, as a man does his dress suit."

"I suppose not."

"No they can't.  So--"

"So?"

Mollie's cheek flushed with a dawning impatience.

"Uncle Bernard, don't you think you make it very hard for me?  After all, it was your wish
that we should stay, and we cannot put the pater to more expense.  You said we were to have
carte blanche.  I want to know if that applies to clothes also?"

"I must say I had not anticipated anything of the sort when I made my remark."

"Well then, are you content to have us as we are?  It won't be easy or pleasant, but I suppose
we could rub along if you don't object. People would make remarks, and as they are your friends--"

"It is a great many years since I have troubled my head about what people say.  That argument
has no weight with me; but, as you say, you remain here and go into society at my invitation,
and it is therefore only reasonable that I should make it possible for you to do so in comfort.
I am in ignorance as to what is required.  What sum, may I ask, would you consider sufficient
to make up deficiencies?"

Mollie's smile of rapture was a sight to behold.  The victory was won, and won so easily that
there had been no fight worthy the name.  Her mind flew to Ruth, picturing the scene between
them when she retold the conversation; then turned at a tangent to gloat over the thought of
fineries to come.

"Ah-ah!  That's a difficult question to answer.  We shall need riding- habits, and summer things,
and evening-dresses, and hosts of etceteras. I could make myself look respectable for twenty
pounds; I could look smart for fifty; I could be a vision for a hundred!" cried Mollie, clasping
her hands ecstatically, while once again a faint twinkle showed itself in Mr Farrell's eyes.
His words were, however, as a rule, decidedly damping in tone.

"That is interesting to know, but something less bewildering than visions might be more in
keeping with ordinary life.  Very well, then, Miss Mary, order what you please, and tell your
sister to do the same, and let the bills come in to me.  You can run up to town for the day
whenever it is necessary, and no doubt you will enjoy the variety.  Is there anything more
you wish to say?"

He took up the newspaper in sign of dismissal, but Mollie sat her ground, flushing and knitting
her brows.

"Uncle Bernard, you are an angel, and I'm ever so much obliged, but please mightn't we have
a fixed sum?  It would be so much more comfortable!  If it is left like this, we should not
know what you would think reasonable or extravagant!"

"And in the other case, I should not know it of you!  No; it must be left entirely to your
discretion.  Get what you please, and as much as you please.  I make no restrictions.  As I
have said before, money is no object to me, but it is my great aim at present to understand
your position as to it."

"I understand, but it's very awkward!" sighed Mollie.  Her forehead was puckered with thought;
she stroked her soft little chin in thoughtful fashion.  "I should like to please you, but
I am so completely in the dark.  A man's ideas are so different from a girl's.  If I get all
I think necessary, you may think me extravagant!"

"Very possibly I may."

"And if I get less than the best, you might think me mean."

"Very possibly again."

Mollie made an involuntary gesture of impatience, then laughed and tossed her head.

"Uncle Bernard, it is hopeless to try to understand you.  There is only one thing to be done;
since I don't know how to please you, I must take extra good care to please myself."

"A most sensible conclusion!  I congratulate you upon it.  I have, however, one request to
make.  It is my wish that you and your sister should be independent of each other; each acting
exactly as she thinks fit, without reference to the other's wishes.  Is there anything more
that you wish to say?  If not, may I suggest that I am generally left free from interruption
after lunch?"

"I'll never come again--I promise I won't, but there is a lot I should like to say if you would
let me.  I'd like to thank you and tell you how much fun and happiness we shall get out of
your generosity; but, I suppose, if I did you would hate it, and call it gush.  The best thing
I can do is to go away at once; but you can't prevent me thanking you in my heart."

She looked at him half smiling, half wistful, longing for some sign of softening which might
break down the barrier between them, but Mr Farrell did not even meet her glance.  His eyes
had already strayed towards his newspaper; he was settling himself in his chair and preparing
to resume the interrupted reading.  Mollie turned with a sigh and left the room.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

LEARNING TO RIDE.

The riding-lessons duly began the next day, and, continuing each morning of the week, proved
a veritable godsend to the four young people, in providing amusement for hours which might
otherwise have hung somewhat heavily on their hands.  The season was yet too young for outdoor
games, and in the early stages of their mutual acquaintanceship it was difficult to keep up
a perpetual flow of conversation.  Some occupation of general interest was thus badly needed,
and this was supplied by the delightful canters over the moors--delightful, despite the drawbacks
which were inseparable from inexperience.

On the first morning the girls were kept sternly in hand by the careful groom, each taken in
turn for an amble along a quiet road under his own supervision; while the other strolled about,
feeling very fine and large as she held up the skirt of her habit, and nonchalantly flicked
her whip to and fro.

From the safe vantage of the ground also it was amusing to watch Jack Melland's plungings to
and fro, and offer him good advice as to the management of his steed.  Jack, needless to say,
disdained the groom's good offices, and set forth confident of being able to master any horse
by the sheer force of his manhood.  His seat was not elegant, certainly, and for once he was
at a distinct disadvantage beside Victor, who looked his best on horseback, and was evidently
an experienced rider.

On the third day the horses were led to the broad road, crossing the well-treed park, and,
after half an hour's patient trotting to and fro, Ruth was started on her first independent
canter, which was fated to have an ignominious end; for the horse, impatient of restraint,
increased its pace to a gallop, which swiftly left the groom behind and sent its rider's composure
to the winds.  Her foot slipped from the stirrup, she dropped her whip, clung wildly to the
pommel, and, regardless of dignity, screamed for help at the pitch of her voice.  It seemed
an eternity of time, but in reality it was only a couple of minutes, before Victor overtook
her, and leaning forward, seized the reins and brought both horses to a halt.

The groom came running up behind, followed by Jack, jogging painfully up and down on his saddle,
while Mollie puffed and panted in the rear. Their faces were all keen with alarm, but fear
changed to amusement at the sight of Ruth with hat cocked rakishly at one side and a thick
coil of hair hanging snake-like down her back.  She looked piteously for comfort, and, meeting
only smiles, drew herself up with what was intended to be an air of haughty disdain; but it
is difficult to look haughty when with every moment fresh hairpins are falling to the ground,
and with the descent of fresh coils your hat is continually assuming a still more impudent angle.

"You do look a sight!" cried Mollie with sisterly candour, and Ruth beckoned imperiously to
the groom to help her to dismount.

"Take me down!  I've had enough of this for one morning.  You must give me another horse to-morrow,
Bates.  I'll never trust myself on this hateful creature again.  No, thank you, I prefer to
walk on my own feet."  She jumped to the ground and stood twisting up her hair, her cheeks
aflame with mingled fright and annoyance--a sight, indeed, as Mollie had remarked, though the
young men's translation of the term was not perhaps precisely the same as her own.

"I'll put in a thousand hairpins next time," she said angrily, as she fastened the coils to
the best of her ability, and straightened the rakish hat.  "You had better see that your hair
is safe, Mollie, before you have your turn.  I am going to sit down on the grass and jeer at
you for a change.  It's so easy to be superior when you are doing nothing yourself!"

"I shan't hang on to my pommel, anyway, and I won't call, `Help, murder, thieves!' whatever
happens," cried Mollie lightly.  "I am going round this curve, so you can all watch and see
how well I do it!"

She flicked her horse's side as she spoke with quite a professional air of unconcern, and started
off at a brisk canter, holding herself resolutely erect, despite the ever-increasing pain in
the small of her back.  Echoes of "Bravo! bravo!" followed her down the path and goaded her
to increased exertion.  A second flip on Prince's back sent him forward at such a surprising
increase of speed that, involuntarily, she gripped the pommel; then, remembering her resolve,
let go her hold to hang on more and more tightly to the reins.

Prince tossed his head and gave an expostulatory amble.  Mollie set her lips and pulled the
stronger.  She was not conscious that the right hand pulled more strongly than the left, but
that it did so was proved by the fact that the horse gradually abandoned the path and directed
its course across the grass.  The watchers behind gave cries of warning as they saw what was
happening, but in her agitation Mollie mistook their meaning for more applause and dashed headlong
on her way.

She was so much occupied in keeping her seat that she had no eyes to discover danger ahead,
but the groom looked with dismay at the low- spreading trees on right and left, and raced across
the grass to intercept her progress.  He was too late, however.  Maddened by the incessant
dragging of the reins Prince galloped ahead, skirting so closely a clump of trees that it was
only by crouching low over the saddle that Mollie escaped accident.  The watchers drew deep
breaths of relief, but renewed their anxiety as once more horse and rider disappeared from
sight behind a giant elm, whose branches hung threateningly towards the ground.

Ruth gripped her habit in both hands and sped across the grass after the groom; the two young
men galloped ahead; and from one and all came a second cry of alarm, as a moment later Prince
sounded his appearance careering wildly along riderless and free.

What were they going to see?  A helpless form stretched on the ground; a white unconscious
face; a terrible, tell-tale wound?  A dozen horrible pictures suggested themselves one after
the other in those breathless seconds; but when the fatal spot was reached there was no figure
upon the ground, senseless or the reverse; no Mollie was seen to right or left.

It seemed as if the earth had opened and swallowed her up, until a feeble squeak made the rescuers
lift their eyes suddenly to the heart of the tree, where a black skirt and two small kicking
feet were seen swinging to and fro in the air.  Another step forward showed the whole picture,
gauntleted hands clutching wildly to a bough, and a pink agonised face turned over one shoulder,
while a little pipe of a voice called out gaspingly--

"Catch me! hold me! take me down! oh, my arms!  I'm falling, falling, I'm falling! oh, oh,
oh--I'm falling down!"  And fall she did, so suddenly and violently that the groom, although
a stoutly built man, tottered beneath her weight.

The ordinary heroine of fiction is so frail and ethereal in build that when she faints away,
under a stress of emotion, the hero gathers her lovely form in his arms and carries her for
a couple of miles with delightful ease; but Mollie Farrell was a healthy, well-grown girl;
and for one agonising moment it appeared as if the sequel to the adventure was to be an ignominious
tumble to the ground of rescuer and rescued.

The moment passed, the groom steadied himself with an involuntary "Whoa!" and Mollie turned
to confront her friends, swaying painfully to and fro, with crossed hands pressing against
each shoulder.

"Oh, my arms! my arms!  They are torn out of their sockets!  I know they are!  The pain is
really hideous!"

"What happened?  How did you manage to perform such an acrobatic feat?" cried Jack, now that
anxiety was appeased, unable to resist a smile at the remembrance of the pretty, comical picture,
and the undignified descent to the ground; but Mollie snapped him up sharply, her sense of
humour absolutely eclipsed by the pain she was suffering.

"It wasn't a feat!  I saw the bough before me and I thought I should be killed, and I put out
my hands to save myself and--I don't know how it happened; but the next moment that horrid,
wicked animal slipped from under me, and my arms were jerked nearly out of my body, and I was
left dangling in mid-air.  It's perfectly hateful of you all to stand there and laugh!  I might
have been killed outright if it hadn't been for Bates."

"You were only a yard or so from the ground; you could have dropped down yourself without making
a fuss.  I kept my seat at any rate, and I didn't howl half so loudly!" said Ruth self-righteously.
"What made you do anything so mad as to ride in among all those trees?"

"I didn't!  It was the horse; he would go, whatever I did," protested Mollie feebly: whereupon
Bates shook his head with solemn disapproval.

"We've got to be very thankful as matters is no worse," said the alarmed groom.  "I shall have
a fine lecturing from the squire when he hears of this, but you will bear me witness as it
was against my wishes.  If I'd had my way you would never have ventured off by yourselves,
for another week at least, but there was no gainsaying you.  I'm thinking you'll have had about
enough lesson for to-day, and I must look after those horses.  To-morrow--"

"To-morrow we'll be good and docile, and do as you tell us.  My nerves are too shaken to be
disobedient; but don't be afraid; you shan't be scolded for what isn't your fault," said Ruth
with her pretty smile. Bates touched his cap and walked off, mollified, while the girls turned
sadly homeward.  Jack and Victor offered their escort, but, finding it impossible to disguise
all traces of amusement, were promptly snubbed and bidden to go and be superior by themselves.

"I do hate men! horrid, patronising creatures!" cried Mollie pettishly, as she limped onwards.
"They think themselves so grand because they are stronger than we are, and have no tiresome
skirts to hamper them.  I don't like riding half as much as I expected.  I'm so stiff and sore,
I should like to go to bed for a month.  I shall lie down this afternoon. I'll get a nice book,
and pull the sofa up to the window, and have tea brought up to me; and I just hope it will
rain and pour, and they will have nothing to do and be bored to death, and then they will miss
me, and be sorry that they were so rude.  Laughing, indeed, when I was in danger of my life,
before their very eyes!"

"You were safe enough before they laughed, and you did look funny hanging in mid-air!  You
didn't think it was cruel to laugh at me, and I was just as much frightened as you were!" retorted
Ruth; and thereafter a frigid silence was maintained until the Court was reached.

At lunch Mr Farrell appeared with a clouded brow, and vouchsafed only monosyllabic replies
when addressed.  It was evident that something had displeased him, and, though no reference
was made to the adventures of the morning, the young people had discovered by now that he possessed
a mysterious power of knowing all about their actions, in sight or out of sight, and felt correspondingly
ill at ease.  When the meal was over and the servants had left the room, the storm burst suddenly.
The sunken eyes gleamed with an angry light, and the tired voice sounded unusually loud and
threatening.

"Has neither of you two young men the sense or the prudence to prevent a lady from running
a foolish risk?  I am informed that Ruth was in danger of having a serious accident this morning.
I am not personally able to look after her safety, and she was possibly ignorant of her own
folly in attempting more than she could accomplish; but I had imagined that in my absence she
had two sufficient protectors--one of whom, at least, I understand to be an accomplished horseman."

Victor flushed deeply, and the lids fell over his tell-tale eyes.

"No one regrets Miss Ruth's fright more than I do, sir.  She had been such an apt pupil that
I did not imagine that there was any danger in trying a little canter on her own account. 
Bates disapproved of it, but I am afraid I sided against him.  I can only promise to be more
careful in future."

"It was no one's fault but my own, Uncle Bernard," interrupted Ruth eagerly.  "I was conceited
and thought I could do anything I liked, and I have learnt a lesson--that's all!  I was frightened,
but I hung on so tightly to the pommel that I don't think there was any real danger of falling.
I really will be careful not to run any more risks."

"I trust you will.  I feel responsible for your safety while you are under my roof, and it
will be a severe strain on my nerves if I cannot rely on your discretion.  Are you feeling
any ill effects from your fright?  Can Mrs Wolff help you in any way, or perhaps the doctor--"

Ruth gave an involuntary exclamation of surprise and protest, and the colour rushed into her
cheeks.  It was so surprising, so extraordinary that Uncle Bernard should betray such concern
for her safety and actually suggest sending for a doctor on her behalf.  Her heart beat high
with the conviction that she was, indeed, his favourite, his Chosen, and that therefore her
safety was all-important for the success of his scheme.

She turned her grey eyes upon him with a liquid glance of gratitude, as she faltered out words
of acknowledgment.

"Oh no, indeed, it is quite unnecessary!  Thank you so much all the same.  I am vexed with
myself for having upset you by being so headstrong, and didn't hurt myself a bit."

"That is well, then!"  Mr Farrell rose from the table and turned slowly towards the door. 
As he did so he found himself suddenly confronted by another face--a bright-eyed, mutinous
girl's face, so transparently charged with speech that he stopped short, uttering an involuntary
inquiry--

"Well! what is it?  What have you got to say?"

Mollie's lips parted, her head tilted to the side.

"I was in danger, too! much more than she was.  I did tumble off!  I hung on to the branch
of a tree.  I might have been injured most dreadfully."

"Ah-ah!" said Mr Farrell slowly.  He turned his head aside, and his lips twitched uncertainly.
"You!  But you, my dear Mary, can take such uncommonly good care of yourself!"

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

MOLLIE DEFENDS HER UNCLE.

Mr Farrell walked to the door, and shut it behind him.  Everyone stood still, staring at Mollie,
and Mollie stared ruefully back.

"Oh!" she cried breathlessly, "oh!" and pressed both palms to her now scorching cheeks.  "I've
never been snubbed like that in all my life." Then suddenly she laughed a bright, sweet-hearted
laugh, utterly free from envy.  "I'm nowhere, Ruth, when you are concerned; but there's one
comfort, I can do as I like, and no one will interfere!  If it is to be a choice between the
two, I prefer freedom to riches."

She left the room to make her way upstairs, and Jack crossed the hall by her side.  He looked
intently at her as he walked, and when their eyes met he said simply--

"You took that well--very well indeed!  I congratulate you on your self- control.  I could
not have kept my temper as you did."

"Oh, I don't know!" returned Mollie easily.  "I brought it on my own head.  It was stupid to
speak of myself at all; but just for the moment I couldn't help feeling aggrieved, because,
really and truly, I was in greater danger than she.  Uncle Bernard is old, poor thing, and
that makes him querulous."

"It ought not to.  I call that a very poor excuse.  When a man gets to his age he ought surely
to have learnt to be patient, even if he imagines himself provoked."

"But he is ill as well.  You say nothing about that.  Should that make him patient too?"

"Certainly it should.  Suffering has often a most ennobling effect."

Mollie stood on the first step of the staircase, her arm on the banister, looking with a challenging
smile into the proud self-confident face on a level with her own.

"Have you ever been ill, Mr Melland?"

"I am thankful to say I have not."

"But you have surely had a pain, or an ache, for a few hours at a time? Ear-ache, when you
were a child, or toothache later on?"

"Oh, certainly!  I've had my share of toothache, and the smaller ailments."

"And when the spasms were on,--were you gentle and patient?  Did you feel your character being
ennobled, or did you rage and champ about like a mad bull?"

Jack laughed.  It was impossible to resist it, at the sight of the mischievous face, and the
sound of the exaggerated, school-girl simile.

"Well," he conceded magnanimously, "perhaps the champing was the more in evidence.  I was not
citing myself as a model, Miss Mollie.  I know quite well that--that I might be more patient
than I am."

"More patient!  More!  You are not patient at all.  You are the most impatient person I ever
met.  If anyone dares even to have a different opinion from you, you can hardly contain yourself.
I wish you could see your face!  You look like this."

Mollie drew herself up, making a valiant attempt to draw her eyebrows together, send out lightning
sparks from her eyes, inflate her nostrils, and tug the ends of an imaginary moustache at one
and the same time; and succeeded in looking at once so pretty and so comical that, instead
of being convicted, Jack laughed more heartily than before.

"As bad as that?  Really?  I must be ferocious!  It's rather unkind of you to pitch into me
like this, Miss Mollie, when I have just been paying you compliments.  It's a good thing I
am going away so soon, as I am such a desperate character.  There is no saying to what lengths
Mr Farrell and I might get if we were long together."

"Oh!"  Mollie's face sobered, and a little chill came over her spirits. "You are still determined,
then?  Nothing has happened to make you change your mind?"

"What should have happened?" replied Jack the ungallant.  "There has been nothing behind the
scenes, Miss Mollie--nothing that you do not know of.  Only I prefer to go back to my work--that's
all.  I consented to remain for a week to please Mr Farrell, but I don't see that I am called
upon to make any further sacrifice.  I have my life's work before me, and just now it needs
all the attention I can give it.  Besides, Mr Farrell and I would never get on; I should be
a disturbing element which would not improve matters for any of you.  Between ourselves, I
think there is little doubt who will be the Chosen, as you express it.  Your sister is evidently
first in favour.  Witness your experience a few minutes ago."

Mollie stared before her, thoughtful and absent-minded.  One word in Jack's speech had detached
itself from the rest and printed itself on her brain.  Sacrifice!  He had stayed at the Court
for a week as a matter of necessity, and did not feel called upon to sacrifice his inclinations
any further.  Sacrifice, indeed!  The word rankled the more as she realised how differently
she herself had described the past five days, and how high Jack Melland's presence had ranked
among the pleasures of the new life.  When she projected her thoughts into the future, and
imagined living through the same scenes without his companionship, it was extraordinary how
flat and dull they suddenly became.  But he called it a "sacrifice" to stay away from a dingy,
dreary office, and preferred the society of his partner to all the Mollie Farrells in the world!
He liked her, of course--she could not pretend to doubt that; but just as a grown man might
care for an amusing child who served to while away an idle hour, but who was not worth the
trouble of a serious thought.

"He thinks I am shallow," thought Mollie sorrowfully, and then suddenly inverted the sentence.
"Am I shallow?" she asked herself, with an uneasy doubt creeping over her self-complacency.
"I expect I am, for I am content with the surface of things, and like to laugh better than
to think.  But I'm twenty; I don't want to be treated as a child all my life.  It's horrid
of him to talk of sacrifices!"

Thoughts fly quickly, but, even so, the pause was long enough to be unusual.  Jack looked inquiringly
at the thoughtful face, and said smilingly--

"Why, Miss Mollie, you look quite sober!  I never saw you so serious before.  Is that because
I said that your sister was preferred before you?"

That aroused Mollie to a flash of indignation.

"No, indeed; I am not so mean.  I'd almost sooner Ruth had things than myself, for I'd have
all the fun and none of the trouble.  Besides, she wants it more than I do, and would be a
hundred times more disappointed to do without.  And then you must not blame Uncle Bernard too
much.  He had a good reason for saying what he did.  I deserved it.--You will never guess what
I did."

Jack looked amused and curious.

"Nothing very dreadful, I feel sure.  You are too hard on yourself, Miss Mollie."

"I asked him for heaps of money to buy heaps of new clothes--"

Jack's whistle of amazement was too involuntary to be controlled.  He tried his best to retrieve
himself by an expression of unconcern, but the pretence was so apparent that Mollie laughed
at the sight, albeit a trifle ruefully.

"Do you mean to tell me seriously that you asked Mr Farrell for money?"

"Yes, I did.  I asked him on Wednesday.  It seemed the only thing to do, as he wants us to
entertain his friends, and go out whenever we are asked, and we hadn't enough clothes to go
in.  Ruth wouldn't ask, so I had to do it.  We have no evening-dresses in the world except
those black things that you see every night, and we can't live in them for three months like
a man in his dress suit."

"They are very pretty dresses.  I am sure you always look charming."

"Oh, don't feel bound to be flattering, I hate obvious compliments!" cried Mollie irritably.
She was surprised to realise how irritable she felt.  "I only told you because it was mean
to let poor Uncle Bernard get the blame."  She paused, and over her face flashed one of those
sudden radiant changes of expression which were so fascinating to behold.  Her eyes shone,
her lips curled, a dimple dipped in her cheek. "But he did give it to me--he gave me more than
I asked--carte blanche, to spend as much as I liked!  Next Tuesday morning as ever is, we are
going up to town to shop with Mrs Thornton as assistant.  Think of it!  Think of it!  Oxford
Street, Regent Street, Bond Street--just to look in at all the windows in turn, and buy what
one likes best. Hats,"--two eager hands went up to her head--"dresses"--they waved descriptively
in the air--"coats; fripperies of all descriptions, delicious blouses for every occasion, and
evening-dresses!--oh, chiffon and lace and sequins, and everything that is fascinating!  I've
never had anything but the most useful and long-suffering garments, though I have yearned to
be fluffy, and now I shall be as fluffy as I can be made!  Think of me, all in tulle and silver
gauze, with a train yards long, all lined with frills and frills of chiffon!" cried Mollie
ecstatically, tilting her head over her shoulder, and pushing out her short skirt with a little
slippered foot as if it were already the train of which she spoke.

"Indeed, I will think of you!  I wish I could do more than think; I should like to see you
into the bargain.  It is hard lines that I have to leave before the exhibition opens."

"Oh, pray don't pose as an object of pity!  Whose fault is it that you are leaving at all?"
retorted Mollie quickly.  "You have made up your mind to go, and it's a matter of pride with
you that nothing or nobody shall prevent you.  My poor fineries would be a very weak inducement;
but you will have to reckon with Uncle Bernard before you get away, and I don't think he will
be easy to oppose."

Jack Melland straightened himself, and his nostrils dilated in characteristic, high-spirited
fashion.

"When I make up my mind I never give way," he said slowly.

Mollie tossed her head defiantly.

"So you say; but there is something even stronger than will, Mr Melland."

"And that is--"

"Fate!" cried Mollie dramatically.

The blue eyes and the brown met in a flashing glance; then the girl dropped a demure curtsey,
and ran lightly upstairs.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

IN THE VILLAGE CHURCH.

The shopping expedition was, by common consent, postponed until the middle of the following
week, when Jack Melland would have taken his departure.

"Let us make hay while the sun shines.  Three is an abominable number, especially when you
happen to be the third," said Mollie, sighing.  "Mr Druce admires you very much, Ruth.  I often
see him staring at you when you are not looking; but when I appear upon the scene his eyelids
droop, and he does not deign even to glance in my direction.  He puzzles me a good deal, as
a rule.  I rather fancy myself as a judge of character, but I can't decide whether he is really
a model of virtue, or a villain in disguise."

Ruth made a movement of impatience.

"How exaggerated you are, Mollie!  Why must you rush off to extremes in that foolish fashion?
Mr Druce is probably neither one nor the other, but just an ordinary combination of faults
and virtues.  He is kind and considerate to Uncle Bernard, and very chivalrous to us;--a hundred
times more so than Jack Melland, who certainly does not err on the side of politeness.  Personally,
I don't think any the less highly of people because they are little reserved and uncommunicative
at first.  It will be time enough to judge Mr Druce's character when we have known him for
weeks, instead of days."

"Humph!  I believe in first impressions," insisted Mollie obstinately; "and so do you, really,
or you would not bristle up when I dare to cast a doubt on his excellence.  You are going to
like him, Ruth, I can see that quite clearly, and he admires you; so, as I said before, I shall
be the poor little pig who stays at home, while you two wander abroad together.  It's not exactly
the programme which my fancy painted when we came down; but if I devote myself to Uncle Bernard,
and cut you both out, I shall have the best of it, after all.  Perhaps, too I may make friends
with someone in the neighbourhood,--there is always the chance of that, and I do love meeting
new people.  I suppose callers will begin to arrive after we have made our first public appearance
at church to- morrow.  I am quite excited at the prospect of seeing all the people-- aren't you?"

"I am not going," said Ruth.

And when Mollie exclaimed and cross-questioned, she flushed uncomfortably, but did not refuse
to answer.

"I have made up my mind to go to early service, but not again at eleven o'clock.  It's not
that I don't want to go; it's because I want to go so much--for the wrong reasons!  Ever so
many times during the last few days I have caught myself thinking about it, and imagining the
scene-- everybody staring at us, while we sit in the squire's pew trying to look unconscious,
but really enjoying it all the time, and building castles in the air about the future, when
we may have a right to be there.  We should be thinking most of all of ourselves, and that's
not a right spirit in which to go to church; so I'm not going.  I'm disappointed, but I've
made up my mind."

Mollie leant her head on her hand and gazed thoughtfully before her. The sisters were seated
in the great round window of their bedroom, from which such a glorious view of the surrounding
country could be obtained; and as Mollie's eyes wandered from the blue of the sky to the fresh
green of the trees, and anon to the patches of golden daffodils among the grass, a wonderful
sweetness softened her young face.

"But God understands!" she said gently.  "He made girls, so He must know how they feel.  This
is a great occasion for us, and it is natural that we should be excited and a little bit self-engrossed.
Mother would think it natural, and make excuses for us, even if we were carried away by our
new importance; and God is kinder and more forgiving than mother. Perhaps, when one is quite
old and staid, it is easy to sit through a service and never think of self; but it is difficult
when one is young. I used to be miserable because every time I had a new hat or dress, or anything
that was fresh, I couldn't help remembering it and being pleased that I looked so nice, and
hoping that other people liked it too but when I thought it over I came to the conclusion that
it was only natural.  Look at that lovely view!"  She waved her hand expressively from right
to left.  "When God made the world so beautiful and so full of colour, He must mean us to love
pretty things without being ashamed of it; so now I just thank Him for the new things in my
prayers, and remember them as some of the things to be thankful for.  I'm sure it's the best
way.  It's cowardice to stay at home because we are afraid of a temptation.  Surely it would
be far better to go, to thank God for giving us this good time, and to ask Him to send us nice
friends, and, if it be His will, to let Uncle Bernard leave us the Court, so that we may help
them all at home!"

She broke off, looking round half timidly in Ruth's face, for it was reversing the usual roles
to find herself laying down the law as to right and wrong to the serious-minded elder sister.
Would Ruth be annoyed--shocked--disapproving?  It appeared that she was not, for the troubled
lines had gradually smoothed away from her forehead, and she cried heartily--

"Yes, you are right.  I feel you are!  Thank you for putting it so plainly, dear.  I did want
to go to church, and now my conscience will be clear, so I can go comfortably, feeling it is
the right thing.  But oh, Mollie, shall we all four be praying, one against the other, each
one wanting to disappoint the others, and keep the Court for himself?"

"Jack Melland won't, for one; and I won't for another.  I'm not sure that I want it and all
the responsibility that goes in its train.  I'd honestly rather it were yours, dear; then I
could come and sponge upon you as often as I liked."

"Sponge!" echoed Ruth reproachfully.  "As if it would be any pleasure to me if you were not
here!  What would become of poor Berengaria without her Lucille?  We are so grand in real life
now that we forget the dear old game; but, when we are back in Attica, we shall be able to
play it better than ever, now that we really know what it feels like to be rich and have everything
one wants!"

Mollie did not answer, and both girls sat silently gazing before them, while their thoughts
wandered northwards to a shabby, crowded house, and to a sloping-roofed attic under the leads,
in which so many hours had been spent.  Mollie smiled, remembering the little make-shifts and
contrivances, seeing the humour of them, and feeling again the glow of triumph with which each
difficulty had been surmounted.

Ruth shuddered with a mingling of fear and repulsion.

Oh, how bare it was--how poor, and small, and unlovely! the few small rooms, the shabby furniture,
the little plot of grass in front of the door which did duty as a garden.  Could it be possible
that in a few short months she might have to return and take up life once more under the old
conditions?  The thought of Dr Maclure's handsome house had been a distinct temptation to her
when he had asked her to be his wife; then how much more the beautiful old Court?

"I would do anything to get it!" thought poor Ruth desperately.  "Oh, if I could only find
out what Uncle Bernard wants!  It is terrible to be in the dark like this!"

The next day was Sunday, and the ordeal of church-going proved to be much less trying than
had been expected, for the congregation was mainly composed of villagers, who looked too stolid
and sleepy to trouble themselves about the appearance of strangers, even when seated in the
squire's pew.  The pew, moreover, was situated in the front of the chancel, so that it was
all the easier to pay whole-hearted attention to the service.  Coming out through the churchyard,
the girls were conscious of glances of interest directed towards themselves by various little
parties who plainly composed the gentlefolk of the neighbourhood.

At the gate one or two carriages were waiting in readiness to convey their owners home, the
best appointed of which was presently occupied by an old lady and gentleman, whom Ruth recognised
from Mrs Thornton's description as being the couple whom the renowned Lady Margot Blount was
about to visit.  She said as much to Mollie, when the carriage had passed by, and the four
young people were strolling together in easy country fashion along the road.

"Did you notice, Mollie?  Those must be Mr and Mrs Blount, who live at the Moat.  I should
know them anywhere from Mrs Thornton's description. I wonder whether they will call, and if
Lady Margot Blount will come with them?  She was expected this week, I think."

She was interrupted by a sharp exclamation, and turned with her two companions to stare in
amazement into Victor Druce's transformed face. For once amazement had broken down the veil
which gave a tinge of mystery to his personality; his sallow cheeks showed a streak of colour,
and his eyes were wide open and eager.

"Lady--Margot--Blount!" he repeated incredulously.  "Here, in this village!  You say she is
expected to meet those people who have just driven past?  Is it possible?  Who told you about her?"

Ruth stared at him, amazed in her turn by his energy of manner.

"Mrs Thornton told us so, the night she dined at the Court.  We asked her what girls were in
the neighbourhood, and among the number she spoke of Lady Margot as a constant visitor to her
uncle and aunt.  Why are you so surprised?  Do you know her in town?  Is she a friend of yours?"

Victor hesitated, biting the ends of his moustache.

"I can hardly call her a friend.  We are not in the same set; but I saw a good deal of her
last autumn.  Some people I know were getting up tableaux for a charity bazaar, and asked us
both to take part.  There were a good many rehearsals, so that we grew for the time pretty
intimate; but she went off to Egypt for the winter, and I have heard nothing of her since the
night of the performance."

"But have thought a good deal all the same!" said Mollie shrewdly to herself, looking at the
dark face, which looked so handsome in its unaccustomed animation.

If Victor Druce often looked like that, he would be a fascinating companion.  To have the power
so to influence him and excite his interest would be perilously attractive.  A few hours before,
Mollie had been almost prepared to declare that she distrusted and disliked this new acquaintance;
now she was conscious of a distinct feeling of envy towards the unknown Margot.

"How interesting that you have met already!  Mrs Thornton was so enthusiastic in her praise,
that she roused our curiosity to fever- pitch.  Do tell us what she is like!  We are longing
to know."

But Victor did not appear inclined to be communicative.  The heavy lids fell over his eyes,
and he murmured a few non-committal sentences.  It was difficult to describe a girl so as to
give any real idea of her appearance.  He was not skilled at word-painting.  If Lady Margot
was so soon expected, would it not be better to wait and judge for themselves? Mollie shrugged
her shoulders impatiently, and forthwith began her catechism.

"Tailor short?"

"Er--medium; not small, not too tall."

"The perfect mean?  I understand!  Dark or fair?"

"Dark eyes, chestnut hair."

"Oh, that's not right.  She has no right to monopolise the beauties of both complexions.  And
chestnut hair, too, the prettiest shade of all! Is she a real, true beauty, or only just pretty,
like ordinary folk?"

"That must be a matter of personal opinion, mustn't it, Miss Mollie? Ideas vary so much on
these subjects."

"Checkmate!" sighed Mollie to herself.  "He won't say what he thinks, and I can't be so rude
as to ask directly, though it's just what I'm dying to know."  Aloud, she said carelessly,
"Oh, I've no doubt I shall think her lovely, and adore her as I do all lovely people; that
is, if she doesn't scare me too much.  Is she formidable and grande dame, or lively and easy-going?"

"That again must surely depend upon circumstances," replied Victor sententiously, whereat Mollie
tossed her head, declaring that he was as aggravating as Uncle Bernard himself, and almost
as enigmatical.

As for Ruth, she walked along with compressed lips and frowning brows. It was not possible
for a girl to find herself thrown into close companionship with two young men, and not wonder
in the recesses of her heart if perchance friendship might not eventually develop into something
warmer.  Ruth and Mollie had both thought and dreamed, and to each it had occurred that possibly
some such ending of the great problem might have occurred to Mr Farrell himself.  There was
no barrier of near relationship to prevent two of the young people making a match, if they
were so disposed; and while Uncle Bernard, so far, seemed to favour his elder niece, he had
expressly stated that he would prefer a male heir.  Ruth's favour was not easily won, but as
both young men appeared agreeable, gentlemanly, and good-looking, it had been a distinctly
pleasant experience to look forward and wonder if he,--if I,--if perhaps some day, long ahead,
when we know each other well...  All girls have such dreams, and understand how their existence
adds savour to a situation.  It was not a little trying, then, when Jack Melland insisted on
returning to town, and Victor Druce, in his turn, must needs betray an undoubted interest in
another girl.

"Tiresome thing!" murmured Ruth to herself; referring, needless to say, not to Victor, but
to the innocent Margot herself.  "I knew I should dislike her from the moment when Mrs Thornton
mentioned her name.  Why couldn't she be happy in town, with all her grand friends, instead
of rushing down here to interfere with us the moment we arrive?  She is sure to hear the reason
why we are here--everyone knows it; and if she is mercenary she will like Victor better now
that he has a chance of inheriting the Court, and, when he knows her connection with the neighbourhood,
she will seem to him more desirable than ever.  Uncle Bernard would be pleased, and think her
a suitable mistress for the Court, and they will get everything, and we'll get nothing, and
go home as failures...  Mother will be disappointed, and everything will be duller and pokier
than ever..."

So on and so on, conjuring up one gloomy vision after another, as was her unhappy custom, until
at length she saw herself stricken in years, broken in health, lonely and unloved, with nothing
in prospect but a pauper's grave.  A strange ending, indeed, to that first public appearance
from which so much had been expected!

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

KISMET.

When Sunday evening arrived Jack Melland was surprised to feel a distinct strain of regret
in realising that it was the last evening he should spend at the Court.  He was still not only
determined but eager to return to his work at the beginning of the week, and had counted the
hours until his release should arrive; but, as the days passed by, he had become increasingly
alive, not only to the beauty of his surroundings but to the unusual charm of feminine society.
After a lonely life in London lodgings, it was an agreeable experience to come downstairs to
a perfectly appointed meal, set against a background of tapestry and oak, to be greeted by
bright girlish faces, and kept amused and interested from morning till night.

Mollie was a fascinating little creature--witty, audacious, and sweet-- hearted, though, as
yet, too much of a school-girl to be taken seriously.  As for Ruth, she was a beauty, and might
become dangerous to a man's peace of mind on a longer acquaintance.  That was an additional
reason why Jack was set on leaving the Court, for, as she was obviously first favourite, it
would be a distinct stroke of diplomacy for a man to link his chances with hers.  Jack's nostrils
inflated in characteristic manner as he told himself, that this would not be his fashion of
going a-wooing, but he was less scrupulous in prophesying for his neighbour. "Druce will make
love to her! she'll marry Druce!" he told himself confidently; and his thoughts flew ahead
to the time when the young couple would reign over the Court, and dispense the favours which
were now in Bernard Farrell's hands.

Well, it was a goodly heritage!  Even in seven short days several scenes had printed themselves
upon his memory.  The drive across the park, with the great north front of the house lying
grey and chill in the distance; the south terrace flooded with sunshine; the gardens sloping
to the level of the lake; and beyond them the open stretch of country.  And in all probability
Druce was to be the master of it all.  He seemed a good enough fellow, but was he worthy of
the position, and of the wife who would go with it?  Would he make her happy?--the sweet, beautiful
thing! Happiness did not come easily to her as it did to her sister.  If her husband neglected
her, or fell short of her ideal, the wistful expression, which was one of her charms, would
soon develop into a settled melancholy.  Jack conjured up a vision of Ruth's face--emaciated
and woebegone--and felt a pang of regret, allied with something curiously like remorse.  It
seemed as if by going away he were deliberately leaving her to Druce's tender mercies, so certain
did he feel as to the result of the three months' companionship.  For the first time a rankling
doubt of the wisdom of his decision disturbed his complacency.  When he was back in his dingy
lodgings would he think longingly of the Court, and reproach himself for having thrown aside
the chance of a lifetime; and if the business failed, despite all his efforts, and he found
himself thrown adrift on the world, how should he feel then, remembering what might have been?

These reflections brought a frown to Jack's brow, but he was too proud to show any sign of
wavering to his companions; and in the old man's presence was careful to make no allusion to
the coming departure.  On Monday morning the subject was to be officially discussed; but, until
the prescribed hour arrived, it would have been a brave man or woman who dared open it in Mr
Farrell's presence.

As for Mr Farrell himself, so far from looking forward to the interview with foreboding, he
seemed in an unusually amiable frame of mind as he took the head of the table on Sunday evening,
actually deigning to question his guests as to the day's doings, and the impressions which
they had received.  In their replies the young men were, as usual, brief and practical, Ruth
tactfully reserved, and Mollie unflatteringly honest.  But to-night Mr Farrell seemed determined
to take no offence, and even vouchsafed a grim smile at the sound of the quaintly vigorous
language.

"You will have to curb that rebellious tongue of yours, my dear Mary, if you are to get through
the next few weeks without trouble.  The good people about here are not accustomed to such
picturesque exaggerations, and will take everything you say as literal fact, so you had better
beware.  You will probably have a number of visitors this week, so it would be as well to arrange
to be at home as much as possible in the afternoons.  Calling is a more serious business in
the country than in town; and when people have taken the trouble to drive eight or nine miles,
it is a disappointment to find nobody at home."  He turned towards Jack, and continued: "Of
course, this restriction does not apply to you, or to Druce.  Your presence will not be expected;
and if you agree with me, the further afield you can be, the better you will be pleased.  There
are some charming excursions which you could manage in an afternoon's ride, and, from what
I hear, your horsemanship has improved so rapidly that you could easily manage them.  Bates
will be happy to give you any directions you may require; or, still better, to accompany you
as guide."

These remarks were so markedly addressed to Jack, that no one but himself could venture to
reply, and his self-will was so much ruffled by the deliberate ignoring of his expressed determination
that he was instantly aflame with wrath.  His nostrils curved, his brows arched, his lips opened
to pronounce a sharp disclaimer, when suddenly he caught sight of Mollie's face gazing at him
across the table; and if ever a face cried "Don't!" with all the eloquence of pleading eyes
and parted lips, Mollie's said it at that moment.  The message was so unmistakable and ardent
that it demanded obedience, and to his own surprise Jack found himself murmuring conventional
words of thanks, instead of the heated disclaimer which he had intended.

Later on in the evening he followed Mollie into a corner of the drawing- room to demand a reason
for her unspoken interference.

"It was not honest to seem to agree when I have no intention of being here for a single afternoon.
Why wouldn't you let me speak?" he demanded; whereupon Mollie pursed her lips, and said thoughtfully--

"I hardly know.  You were going to be cross, and it is Sunday--our first Sunday here.  I didn't
want it to be spoilt by angry words.  If you must disappoint the old man, do it gently.  Don't
answer back, even if he is annoying.  You will be glad afterwards--when he is dead, and you
have nothing to regret."

Jack looked down at her in silence.  Was this the pert school-girl, whom he had just deemed
unworthy of serious consideration?  The face into which he looked seemed of a sudden that of
a woman rather than that of a child--soft and sweet, grave-eyed, with lovely, serious lips.
The very voice was altered, and had an added richness of tone.  It was like catching a glimpse
into the future, and beholding the woman that was to be, when girlhood's bright span was over.
Instinctively Jack's manner altered to meet the change.  The supercilious curve left his lip,
his keen eyes softened.

"Thank you, Miss Mollie," he said gravely.  "You are quite right.  I'll remember!"

She thanked him with a luminous glance, and turned away; but he wanted to see her again, to
hear her speak once more in that beautiful new voice.  Before she had taken three steps he
called to her eagerly--

"Miss Mollie!  One moment!  I expect I shall be packed off, bag and baggage, as soon as I have
announced my decision; but Mr Farrell does not make his appearance until lunch-time, so we
have a whole morning left still.  Will you come for a last ride with me after breakfast?"

"Yes," said Mollie simply.

Her heart beat high with pleasure, because Jack had assented so readily to her request, because
he had wished to spend his last hours in her society.  For the moment she forgot the blank
which would follow his departure, and was wholly, unreservedly happy.  It was the old, sparkling,
girlish face which was turned upon him--the vision had disappeared.

The next day neither Ruth nor Victor offered to join the riding-party, though they had not
any settled plans for the forenoon.  Mollie had told her sister of Jack's invitation of the
evening before, and Ruth was too proud to make a third unless she were specially asked to do
so.  She strolled into the grounds to interview the gardener about sending in an extra supply
of plants and flowers to beautify the house for the expected callers, while Victor shut himself
in the library to write letters.

Jack looked well on horseback, as tall, upright men always do, and Mollie glanced at him admiringly,
and thought regretfully of her new habit, which was even now in the tailor's hands.  It did
seem hard that she should have to wear a shabby, ill-fitting coat while he was here, and that
the new one should come home almost as soon as he had departed. Her sigh of self-commiseration
brought his eyes upon her, and he sighed in echo as he cried--

"Last times are melancholy occasions!  I hate them, even when the experience has not been altogether
pleasant.  There is a sadness about turning over the leaf and ending another chapter of life.
This chapter has been a very short one, but uncommonly jolly.  Don't think that I haven't appreciated
it, because I am going away.  I have enjoyed every hour of this week, and when I am back on
the treadmill I shall think longingly of you all many times over.  I hope we may often meet again."

"It is not very likely, is it?  You will go your way, and we will go ours.  Ruth and I have
never been in London, nor you in Liverpool.  We may all live until we are old and bald, and
never meet again," said Mollie dismally; whereupon Jack looked at the shining plaits which
were coiled at the back of her head, and laughed reassuringly.

"I can't imagine you bald, nor old either, and I expect to see you many times over before you
have the chance of changing.  The Chosen, whoever he or she may be, must surely have the good
manners to invite the rest of us to visit a house which might have been our own; and I have
a special claim, for by retiring from the lists I increase your chances. Personally, I have
made up my mind to spend many holidays here--shooting and riding, and enjoying myself generally.
I hope you won't object, if you happen to be the chatelaine?"

"Ah, but I shan't!  I have no chance against the other two; but I also intend to spend my holidays
here, and I tell Ruth she must send home hampers every week.  It has always been my ambition
to get hampers, and she could send such splendid ones from the Court--game and poultry and
eggs, and nice out-of-season fruits and vegetables, which would be such a help in the housekeeping!
I am afraid sometimes that we count too much on Uncle Bernard's fancy for Ruth's eyebrows,
for if he changed his mind and left everything to Mr Druce, it would be a terrible disappointment.
And there are three months before us still.  He may change a dozen times yet."

"I think most probably he will.  Better stick to your resolution, to have a good time, and
not bother your head about the future.  I shall be most anxious to know how things go.  Druce
has promised to send me a line now and then.  Will you jog his memory in case he forgets?"

Mollie promised, all the more readily that Victor's letter would naturally bring a return,
which would serve to bridge over the separation.  It seems curious to remember that little
over a week ago she had not known of Jack Melland's existence.  He had made but a brief appearance
upon the scene, but it would not be easy to forget him, or to fill the vacant place.

Both riders relapsed into silence as they neared home; but, as they clattered into the stable-yard,
Jack turned towards Mollie with rather a forced air of triumph, and cried--

"Do you remember your warning, Miss Mollie, that Fate was stronger than will?  Ever since we
set out this morning the words have been ringing in my ears, and I have been expecting some
accident to happen which would keep me here in spite of myself.  I have looked for it at every
turn of the road as if it were bound to come."

Mollie shivered nervously.

"Oh, how horrid!  I am glad you did not tell me.  I should have been nervous, too, for I am
superstitious about presentiments.  They so often come true."

"Well, this one at least has not.  Here we are safe and sound, and all risk is over!" cried
Jack, dropping his reins, and jumping lightly from the saddle without waiting for the groom
to come to the horse's head.

He was anxious to assist Mollie to dismount before Bates came up; but even as his feet touched
the ground he slipped, staggered uncertainly for a moment, and sank to the ground with a groan
of pain.  The groom rushed forward; Mollie leapt inelegantly but safely to the ground, and
bent over him with anxious questioning.  His face was drawn with pain, and he bent forward
to grip his foot with both hands.

"My--ankle!  I slipped on something, or came down on the side of my foot.  I don't know how
it was done; but I've given it a bad wrench, if nothing worse.  You'll have to cart me up to
the house, Bates.  I'm afraid it's hopeless to try to walk."

"No, indeed, sir!  Don't you trouble.  I've got an old bath-chair stored away in the stables.
We'll lift you into that in no time, and take you up as easy as possible."

He turned off as he spoke, and Jack and Mollie were left alone.  For a moment she stood silently
by his side; then their eyes met, and he said wearily--

"Kismet!  Fate is too much for me.  For better or worse, Miss Mollie, it is evidently ordained
that I must stay on at the Court!"

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

NEW EXPERIENCES.

The village doctor came to doctor Jack Melland's damaged ankle, and the patient fumed and fretted
beneath his old-fashioned treatment.

"Bandaging me and laying me up by the heels for weeks at a time; it's folly!" he declared angrily.
"The man is twenty years behind the times. If I were in town I should have had one of those
Swedish fellows to massage it, and be about in half the time.  Just my luck to go in for an
accident in a place where one can't get proper attention!"

"But you groan if anyone comes near your foot; wouldn't it hurt dreadfully much to have it
massaged?"  Mollie asked.

Whereupon the invalid growled impatiently--

"Hurt?  Of course it would hurt!  What has that to do with it, pray?"

"Lots," returned Mollie, unabashed.  "I should think so, at least, if it were my ankle.  I
can't endure pain."

"I'm not a girl," growled Jack the ungracious, between his teeth.

There was no denying the fact that he did not make an agreeable invalid. In the first realisation
of his accident he had meekly bowed his head to Fate; but ever since he had, figuratively speaking,
kicked against the pricks, and repaid the kindness of his companions by incessant grumblings
and complaints.  He hated having to give up his own way; he hated being tied to a sofa and
a bath-chair; he resented offers of help as if they had been actual insults, and hindered his
recovery by foolhardy attempts at independence.

"How would you like to be an invalid for life?"  Mollie asked him severely after one of these
outbursts.  "There was a young man in mother's district, every bit as strong and big as you,
and a sack of something fell on his back while they were trying to haul it up into a warehouse.
He was taken to the hospital, and they told him that he would never walk again, never even
sit up again.  As long as he lived he would be a helpless cripple.  And he was just going to
be married, too!"

"Well, I'm not, thank goodness!" cried Jack bluntly.  "Why do you tell me such gruesome stories?
My own troubles are quite enough just now.  I don't want to hear any more horrors."

"It was just to distract your mind from yourself that I did tell you. Once upon a time I met
a man who read me a beautiful lecture upon the dangers of being selfish and self-engrossed.
I'll tell you his very words, if you like.  They made a deep impression upon me at the time,"
said Mollie naughtily.  But instead of being amused, Jack was only irritated afresh.

In these first days of invalidism Mollie's influence was the reverse of soothing, for Jack
was not in the mood to be teased, and if his inner determination could have been put into words
it would have been that he objected to be cheered up, refused to be cheered up, and insisted
upon posing as a martyr; therefore, it followed that Ruth's gentle ministrations were more
acceptable than her sister's vigorous sallies. If he could have seen again the Mollie of whom
he had caught a glimpse on Sunday evening, Jack would have chosen her before any other companion;
but, as she had made place for a mischievous tease, he preferred to look into Ruth's lovely
anxious eyes, and to dilate at length upon his symptoms to her sympathetic ear.

Mr Farrell's behaviour at this critical juncture did not throw oil upon the troubled waters.
He took care that Jack should have every attention, and inquired as to his progress with punctilious
regularity; but he plainly considered a sprained ankle a very trivial affair, which, needless
to say, did not coincide with the invalid's views of the case; moreover, he absolutely refused
to believe that the accident was responsible for keeping Jack at the Court.

"It is only right to tell you, sir, that I had finally made up my mind that I must return home
to-day, as I could not agree with your conditions," Jack informed him on their first interview
after the doctor had paid his visit; whereupon the old man elevated his eyebrows with that
air of ineffable superiority which was so exasperating, and said--

"And I, on the contrary, had made up my mind that you should stay.  It is satisfactory to me
that the question is decided in my favour."

"By an accident, sir.  By an accident only.  If I'd been able to move--"

Mr Farrell held up his hand with a deprecatory gesture.

"In that case I should have called your attention to certain arguments which would have brought
about the same result.  Believe me, my dear Jack, it would have made no difference."

Jack's face flushed angrily.  He forgot Mollie's entreaty, forgot his own promise, and answered
hotly--

"I cannot imagine any arguments that could keep me here against my will. As soon as I can get
about again I must return to my work.  This accident is only delaying my departure for a few
weeks longer."

"So!"  Could anything be more aggravating than that little bow and smile which accompanied
the word.  "In a few weeks, my dear Jack, many things may happen; therefore, it is superfluous
to discuss the subject at present.  When the time arrives I shall be ready to meet it."

He turned and left the room, while Jack raged in helpless fury upon the sofa.  It was insufferable
to be treated as if he were a boy who could be ordered about against his will.  When John Allen
Ferguson Melland said a thing, he meant it, and not all the old men in the world should move
him from it, as Bernard Farrell would find out to his cost before many weeks were past.

For three whole days Jack's ill-temper continued, and, like most angry people, he punished
himself even more than his companions, refusing to sit in the drawing-room to see callers,
and insisting on remaining all day long in a dull little room at the back of the house.  He
grew tired of reading.  His head ached with the unusual confinement; just because he was unable
to move he felt an overpowering desire for half a dozen things just out of reach, and the day
stretched to an interminable length.  On the fourth morning depression had taken the place
of ill- temper, and he was prepared to allow himself to be petted and waited upon, when, to
his dismay, Victor came to his bedroom with the news that the girls had gone up to town, accompanied
by Mrs Thornton.

"They said, as you preferred to be alone it would be best to keep to their plans," said Victor
cruelly.  "I am off for a ride, and shall probably make a day of it, and lunch en route.  I
was thinking of going to Barnsley.  It is quite a decent-sized place.  Would you like me to
try if I could find a masseuse for your foot?"

Jack looked up sharply; but Victor looked as he usually did.  His face was set and expressionless,
as it always was when his eyes were hidden. It was natural enough that he should make such
a suggestion, seeing that he had heard many lamentations on the subject, natural and kindly
into the bargain, yet Jack felt an instinctive unwillingness to accept the offer.

"He wants me out of the way," came the leaping thought, while he bit his lip, and appeared
to ponder the question.

A few days before he himself had heartily echoed the sentiment; but now that Fate--or was it
something else?--had interfered to keep him at the Court, Jack's views had slowly altered.
It might be that there was a duty waiting for him here, some duty which was even more important
than his work in town; and, if he shirked it, the consequences might fall upon others besides
himself.  The two girls' faces rose before him,-- Ruth's shy and anxious, Mollie audaciously
reckless,--children both of them in the ways of the world, though innocently confident of their
own wisdom.  If by staying on at the Court he could safeguard their interests, it would be
well-spent time which he should never regret.

To Victor's astonishment his offer was quietly but firmly refused, and he set out on his ride
marvelling what had happened to bring about such a sudden change of front.

Meantime, Ruth and Mollie were enjoying their first experience of that most delightful feminine
amusement--shopping in London.  They drove to the doors of world-famed establishments, entered
with smiling self- confidence, and gave their orders, unperturbed even by the immaculate visions
in black satin who hastened forward to receive them; so marvellous and inspiring are the effects
of a purse and a cheque-book behind it!

Mrs Thornton was purse-bearer, and, to do her justice, enjoyed the occasion as much as the
girls themselves.  She had been personally interviewed by Mr Farrell and coached for her part,
which was to chaperon the girls, take them to the best places in which to procure their various
requirements, but on no account whatever to direct the purchases, or limit their extent.

"It is a good test; I wish to study it," said the old man, which speech being repeated, Ruth
looked grave, and Mollie laughed, and cried--

"There is only one question I shall ask you, `Do I look nice?' and one piece of advice, `Which
suits me best?' and you are free to answer them both.  In the present instance these hats are
all so fascinating that it would be a sin to choose between them.  I shall take them all!"

"Mollie, don't be absurd.  You shall do nothing of the kind.  Four hats, and you have two already!
It would be wicked extravagance!" protested Ruth vigorously.

But Mollie persisted, and the attendant volubly declared that indeed "madam" was wrong.  Six
hats was a very moderate allowance.  Madam would need different hats for different occasions,--for
morning and afternoon, for fine and wet weather, for ordinary and dress occasions.  Would she
herself not be persuaded to try on this charming model, the latest French fashion, "ridiculously
cheap at three guineas?"

"Thank you, I'll take the white hat, and the black chiffon.  They will answer all my purposes,"
declared Ruth frigidly.

She was shocked at Mollie's wanton extravagance, and all the more disapproving that she herself
badly wanted to be extravagant too, and wear dainty colours for a change, instead of the useful
black and white, if only her sensitive conscience could have submitted to the outlay.

If hats had been a pitfall, dresses were even worse, for here the prices were largely increased.
It was a new experience to be ushered into what looked more like a luxurious house than a shop,
and to find oneself confronted by a row of tall, willowy young women dressed in tightly fitting
black satin garments, so marvellously representing dress-stands that they might have been mistaken
for them had it not been for the elaborately dressed heads.

"This is a very expensive place--just for your very best dresses," Mrs Thornton ventured to
explain; and the order, "Summer gowns for these young ladies," having been given, presto! the
animated dress-stands disappeared through a doorway, to return a few minutes later to promenade
slowly up and down the floor before the dazzled eyes of the beholders, each one attired in
a different costume.  Blue, green, white, lavender, and yellow--perfect of cut, distracting
of make--it was, indeed, a problem to choose between them!  And while they hesitated, lo! another
disappearance, and another triumphal entrance even more gorgeous than the first.

"If I thought I should look as nice as they do, I'd have four at least, but I shan't; my waist
is twice as big, and I never learnt to glide," sighed Mollie humbly.  "How much is the blue,
please?  I think that would suit me best."

The price of that simple--looking frock gave Ruth an electric shock.  It was actually more
than the whole of her yearly allowance.  She looked it over, making a rapid estimate of the
cost of material and trimming, and felt convinced she could have bought them all out of a five-pound
note. And then it could be made at home.  Ah, no, that was just the difficulty!  The material
was a detail, in the making-up thereof lay all the charm and effect.  She came out of her calculations
to hear Mollie say calmly--

"And I shall want them both home by the end of a week!  Now my sister will choose, and after
that we will see some evening gowns."

Ruth took her courage in both hands, ordered one dress, and took advantage of the first moment
of solitude to rebuke Mollie in irritable undertones.

"Do think what you are about!  I'm the eldest, and it's most unsuitable for you to be better
dressed.  You ought to let me decide, and follow my example."

"But I promised Uncle Bernard that that was just what I would not do."

"Even if you did, he never intended you to order a whole trousseau.  How will he feel when
he sees the bills?"

"I don't know; I think he will feel nice when he sees my clothes.  Oh, Ruth, do enjoy yourself
when you have the chance!  He gave you carte blanche--why on earth can't you take it?"

But that was just exactly what Ruth could not do.  The fear of the bill--the fear of Uncle
Bernard's displeasure, loomed so largely before her eyes, that she dared not indulge her longing
for needless fineries. In every shop the same story was repeated, Mollie giving a lavish order
with beams of satisfaction, Ruth reducing hers by half, and feeling sore and aggrieved.  Each
appealed in turn to Mrs Thornton for support and approval, until that good lady became quite
dazed and bewildered, and was thankful to find herself once more in her quiet home.

Arrived at the Court, Mollie danced up to Mr Farrell, who sat reading by the library fire.

"I'm back again, Uncle Bernard," she cried; "I've had a beautiful time! I don't think I ever
enjoyed myself so much!  I'm bubbling over with gratitude.  I've spent heaps of money!  You
said I might, and I've taken you at your word; and oh, I have got such lovely things in exchange!"

Mr Farrell looked at her grimly, but made no reply.  His eyes turned towards his other niece,
who stood silently in the background.

"And you," he queried, "have you been equally fortunate?"

Ruth's face clouded.

"I got what I needed," she said; "I have a headache.  I'm going upstairs to rest."

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

MOLLIE'S REVENGE.

Three weeks had passed by.  May had begun--an old-fashioned, well- conducted May--which was
really like a foretaste of summer, instead of the shivery disappointment which so often condemns
us to fire and furs. Jack's ankle was still troublesome, and though he could limp a few steps
with the aid of a stick, his outdoor exercises were for the most part restricted to peregrinations
in the old bath-chair.  According to his account the period had been one of much tribulation,
when patience and forbearance had been tried to their limits by the unnatural conduct of Miss
Mollie Farrell.  Instead of behaving like the proverbial ministering angel, Mollie proved uncertain,
coy, and hard to please, and so full of mischievous pranks that Jack declared that his hair
was turning white, though, if the truth be told, he looked remarkably bright and happy.

One morning it happened that a chance remark of Jack's offended Miss Mollie's dignity, and
she vowed that she would be revenged.  It seemed, however, that she had forgotten her displeasure
for when Ruth and Victor went off to the village after lunch, she offered herself for the post
of chairman, and wheeled the invalid to his favourite position beneath a flowering chestnut
in front of the house.

The ankle was comfortable, and Jack, having lunched well, felt at peace with mankind and womankind
into the bargain, and quite inclined to enjoy a pleasant talk.  No sooner was he settled, however,
than Miss Mollie drew a book from her pocket, and sitting down on the grass at a few yards'
distance, deliberately turned her back upon him and began to read.

Jack watched these proceedings in silence, recognising both that he was being punished for
having annoyed his companion in the morning, and also that he could not better frustrate her
intentions than by preserving an appearance of undisturbed complacency.  Accordingly, he sat
quietly, studying the pretty figure in the blue linen dress, and noticing with satisfaction
that the pages were flicked over more rapidly than was consistent with careful reading.

The book was evidently dull--so much the better!  Miss Mollie might find her own punishment
even heavier than his.  He himself had nothing to read, but that did not distress him.  A man
is not to be pitied if he cannot make himself happy for an hour or so, even with a sprained
ankle, when there is a charming landscape to gaze upon, of which a pretty girl makes the foreground.

Jack smiled lazily to himself as he thrust his hand into the tail-pocket of his coat, but his
expression changed tragically as his fingers groped in vain for the bulky pouch which he had
refilled just before leaving the house.  Now, what in the world had happened to that pouch?
Could it have fallen out of his pocket?  Impossible!  It was too securely weighted down by
its own size.  It could not have fallen, but it could easily have been stolen by the hands
of his mischievous charioteer as she wheeled him across the grass.  Jack had no doubt that
that was exactly what had happened, and he congratulated himself on having smothered an exclamation
of dismay, as he saw Mollie's head lifted cautiously from the pages as if to listen for the
expected explosion.

Jack smiled to himself, knowing full well that her patience would soon be exhausted, and with
it the limit of his punishment.  It would be a joke to pretend to be asleep when, at last,
it pleased her ladyship to turn round!  The little witch no doubt was fully aware how pretty
she looked, and fondly imagined that he was wrapt in admiration.  It would be a useful snub
to find that he had forgotten all about her.  So Jack rested his head against the cushions
of his chair, folded his arms, and kept his eyes rigorously shut for the next few minutes.
He felt delightfully at ease, and the rays of the sun shining through the branches were at
once so subdued, and so comforting, that it came to pass that what he had plotted in fun came
about in earnest, and at the end of a few minutes his lids were tightly closed, and his breath
came through his lips in long, regular respirations.

Mollie heard the sound, and smiled derisively.

"As if I should believe for one moment that he had gone to sleep!" said she to herself, with
a tilt of the saucy head; but as the moments passed by, the perfection of the imitation began
to disturb her equanimity; the last breath, for example, approaching perilously near a snore!
She turned cautiously, inch by inch, until a glimpse of the bath-chair could be obtained, with
a fair head drooping upon the cushions.  Jack was asleep!  Actually, and in very truth he had
calmly slumbered off in defiance of her displeasure.

Mollie arose in her wrath, and stood over the unconscious figure, meditating upon the next
step.  If Jack Melland imagined for one moment that she was going to mount guard over his slumbers,
he would find himself vastly mistaken; yet she dared not leave him unprotected, for the ground
sloped away from the tree, and a violent movement on the part of its occupant would be enough
to send the chair racing down the incline.  She stood and pondered, then, drawing a handkerchief
from her pocket, crept on tip-toe to the back of the chair and tied the handle to a convenient
bough.  It would be almost impossible for Jack, crippled as he was, to raise himself and turn
round sufficiently to undo the knots; so, after testing their firmness a second time, Mollie
took a circuitous path to the house, there to amuse herself for an hour or more, until Mr Jack
had time to awake and repent himself of his audacity.

The awaking came unexpectedly quickly.  Perhaps Jack's slumbers had been disturbed by Mollie's
movements, quiet though they had been; certain it is that she was hardly out of sight before
he stirred uneasily, blinked once or twice, and finally sat erect in a spasm of remembrance.
He had fallen asleep, not in pretence but in actual fact; for how long he had slept he had
no idea, but meantime the bird had flown, no doubt with feathers much ruffled by wounded pride.

Jack did not believe that Mollie had gone out of sight; he pictured her standing a few feet
away, squeezed up against the branches of a tree, with blue skirts held tightly together lest
a fold should betray her presence.  Anxiety for his safety would soon bring her rushing to
his side; so he threw himself back in the chair to set it a-going; failed to make it move,
jolted forward, and again found it immovable.  Then he grew suspicious, and craning over his
shoulder beheld the tell-tale handkerchief with the tight little knots twisted purposely well
out of reach.

So this was Mollie's revenge, to leave him stranded in the middle of the park until such time
as it might please her to set him at liberty!  Jack hardly knew whether to be more amused or
indignant at the sense of his helplessness.  It seemed so preposterous that a chit of a girl
should be able to keep him prisoner, that for a moment he seriously contemplated getting out
of the chair and limping back to the house.  How contrite she would be when she returned to
find the chair empty; how full of contrition, and anxiety about his welfare!

The prospect was not unpleasant; but after nearly a fortnight's invalidism, he dreaded doing
anything to retard convalescence, and the more he measured with his eye the distance to the
house the more convinced he became that it was beyond his power to accomplish.  It would be
ignominious, indeed, to have to give in half-way, and be discovered by his tormentor sitting
prone upon the ground waiting her arrival.

Jack determined to be wise in his generation and remain where he was; but it was dull work
sitting alone, without paper or book to while away the time, and as his chair was turned away
from the drive he had not even the distraction of watching for the return of Ruth and Victor.
He took out his pocket-book, searched through its contents for anything of interest, made a
few calculations on an empty page, and thrust it impatiently into his pocket.  Then he studied
his strong white hands, trying to imagine that they looked thin and delicate, carried out a
systematic search through every one of his pockets, lest, perchance, anything at all interesting
might have wandered into one of them by mistake; looked at his watch and groaned to find that
it was still a full half-hour to tea-time.  At last when patience was well-nigh exhausted,
the crunch of footsteps on the path delighted his ears, and he called out a vociferous greeting--

"Hallo! are you back?  Thank goodness for that.  I was just looking out for you."

No answer.  The footsteps came to a momentary pause, then crunched on again quicker than before.
Jack cleared his throat and roared still louder--

"I say, I'm here!  Don't go without me; I'm alone; I want to go up to the house."

Silence still; another pause and then a deliberate walk onwards, which roused Jack to veritable
anger.  This was evidently not Ruth but Mollie, and Mollie must be taught that there was a
point when a joke ceased to be a joke, and that, bound or free, Jack Melland must be obeyed.
When he spoke again his voice was not loud any longer, but cuttingly cold and severe.

"Will you kindly come here and unloose my chair; I refuse to be kept a prisoner any longer."

The footsteps paused abruptly; the swish of a silken skirt came across the grass, and a woman's
clear, high-bred voice cried abruptly--

"A prisoner!  Oh, what is the matter?  Please tell me what I can do.  I would have stopped
at once, but I did not think you could possibly be talking to me."

Jack looked up in amaze, and beheld a tall girl clad in grey, a little head beautifully poised
on an unusually long neck, and a pale, oval face, out of which looked a pair of deep, violet
eyes.  The stranger was not beautiful, not even pretty, but in the way she spoke, in the way
she moved, in the way she stood looking at him, with the folds of her dress held together in
one slender hand, there was an air of distinction which marked her out from the ordinary run
of womankind.

Jack felt overcome with embarrassment as he remembered his imperious summons, and so much at
a loss to explain his predicament that for a few moments he could not find words, but just
lay back in his chair staring at her with horrified eyes.

The stranger evidently perceived his embarrassment, for she came a step forwards and said tactfully--

"I think you must be Mr Melland.  May I introduce myself?  My name is Margot Blount I have
been lunching at the vicarage, and took the opportunity of calling upon Miss Farrell before
the carriage comes back for me at five o'clock.  I shall be so glad if I can be of any service
to you en route."

"Thank you; you are very kind.  I am awfully sorry that I should have shouted at you in that
threatening way," said Jack, smiling in his most fascinating manner, and he could be remarkably
fascinating upon occasion.  "The truth is I am a cripple at present with a sprained ankle,
and my--er--attendant has chosen to run away, and leave me tied up to this tree.  I was getting
tired and impatient, hence the summons."

"Ah," exclaimed Lady Margot, smiling, "I can guess who the attendant was!  Miss Mollie Farrell,
was it not?  I have heard so much of her from Mrs Thornton that I am quite longing to see her.
Is she at home this afternoon--and her sister?"

"I am not sure about Miss Farrell; she went out for a walk after lunch; but in any case she
is sure to return very soon.  Miss Mollie is-- somewhere!  It is impossible to be more explicit.
Probably some of the servants will be able to find her for you."

"I hope so, but first what can I do for you?  Shall I untie this noose and set you free?"

"Thank you; I should be much obliged.  Then, perhaps, you would kindly ask the butler to send
someone to bring me in.  I shall hope to see you later on."

Lady Margot rustled to the back of the chair, and bent over the knotted handkerchief.  It was
tied as if the knots were never intended to be undone, and presently she paused to take off
her gloves before attacking it again, while Jack expostulated and apologised for the trouble
he was giving.  Finally, regardless of her light draperies, Lady Margot knelt down on the ground
so as to work more conveniently, and in the midst of her efforts a saucy face peered suddenly
round the corner of a tree a few yards distant, and Mollie hove into sight, with head thrown
back and arms a-kimbo in would-be threatening attitude.  From her position Jack's broad shoulders
hid from view the grey figure behind the chair, and he guessed as much, and took a wicked delight
in the thought.

"Well, Mr Melland, I hope you feel refreshed by your slumbers, and have awakened in a better
frame of mind," cried Mollie loftily.  "Will you say you are sorry, and be taken to have tea
on the terrace, or be obstinate and stay here by your lonesome little self?"

"Neither, thank you; I have been fortunate enough to find a friend in need, so am no longer
dependent on your good offices.  Allow me to introduce you--Miss Mary Farrell--Lady Margot
Blount!" said Jack dramatically.

Tableau!

Mollie's arms dropped to her sides and her face grew scarlet under the garden-hat.  So far
from rising to her position as hostess, it was the visitor who came forward to shake hands
and speak the conventional words of greeting.  It was, indeed, a cruel Fate which sent just
this visitor at just this very time!  Half a dozen times over during the last fortnight had
Mollie donned one of her grand London dresses and sat primly in the drawing-room, with intent
to receive Lady Margot in style, and impress her with a sense of her own dignity and importance!
And then to be discovered behaving like a mischievous school-girl, and be taken at such a disadvantage
that she could not even find her voice!  It was too annoying!

"Good-afternoon, Miss Farrell!  I was coming up to the house to call upon you and your sister.
I am so happy to have found you at home; and, do you know, I believe Mr Melland will have to
fall back upon your help, after all.  My efforts have not been at all successful.  You tie
such good knots!" cried Lady Margot, in a tone of enthusiasm which seemed to imply that the
tying of knots was one of the rarest and most valuable of accomplishments.  Looking into her
face, Mollie's embarrassment died a sudden death, and she found herself smiling back with a
delicious sense of comradeship and understanding.

"Oh, I know the trick.  I can undo them in a moment, and then won't you come and have tea with
us on the terrace?  It is all ready, and it seems a sin to be indoors on this lovely day. 
My sister will be there waiting for us; she was just coming up the path by the lake as I turned
the corner."

"Oh, that is nice!" said Lady Margot.  She looked as if she were about to ask another question,
but checked herself, and strolled along beside the bath-chair, chatting alternately to Jack
and Mollie with an ease and grace which might have come from long years' acquaintanceship.
As they turned the corner of the terrace she was a step in advance, and Mollie saw her stop
short for the fraction of a moment while the colour rushed into her pale cheeks.  She had surprised
a pretty little tableau--a tableau to which the inhabitants of the Court had grown accustomed
during the last few days--Ruth seated on her chair, her lovely head drooped shyly forward,
Victor leaning impressively towards her, his dark eyes bent on her face.  They were too much
engrossed to hear the approaching footsteps, but the sound of the chair crunching over the
gravel at last aroused their attention, when Victor turned round, and leapt to his feet, white
and breathless.

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

"THE OGRE."

It was not a successful tea-party; for the fact of Victor's previous acquaintance with Lady
Margot, so far from acting as a bond of union, seemed to cast a constraint over all.  The meeting
between the two had been cool and unnatural.  They persistently avoided speaking to or looking
at each other, and it seemed to Mollie's critical ear as if even Lady Margot's voice had altered
in tone since she had turned the corner of the terrace.  She chatted away as easily as before,
but the friendly manner was replaced by something colder and more formal.  As she sat with
veil turned back, the full rays of the sun shining upon her face, it became more obvious than
ever that, in spite of chestnut hair and violet eyes, Lady Margot fell far short of beauty;
but, none the less, the eye dwelt upon her in fascinated attention, so graceful was the pose
of the small, stag-like head, so finely cut the curve of chin and cheek; while the smallest
action, as of lifting a cup to her lips, became a veritable joy to behold.

She was the incarnation of grace, and, looking at her, Mollie became uncomfortably aware of
roughened hair, sunburnt hands, and a dozen little deficiencies of toilette.  Even Ruth suffered
from the comparison, and, despite an obvious effort to sustain her role as hostess, there was
a strained, unhappy expression upon her face which went to Mollie's heart.

It was a relief to all when Lady Margot rose to take leave; but when she offered her hand to
Victor in his turn, he said eagerly--

"Mayn't I walk down with you to the vicarage?  It is so long since we met!  Please let me take
you so far!"

"Oh, certainly, if you can spare the time!" replied Lady Margot with a careless indifference
of manner which made her consent almost more blighting than a refusal.

Victor winced beneath it, but made no comment, and the two tall figures walked slowly down
the terrace.  Immediately they had disappeared, Jack summoned a servant to wheel him into the
house, and the girls were left alone.

They sat silently for a long time, as true friends can do without offence, Ruth gazing ahead
with grey eyes which saw nothing of the beauty of the scene; Mollie glancing from time to time
at her troubled face, then turning quickly aside, lest her scrutiny might be observed and resented.

At length Ruth spoke, letting her figure drop back in her chair with a gesture of weariness--

"I wonder how it is that nothing is ever as nice as one expects?  If we could have looked forward
two months ago, and seen ourselves as we are now, we should have imagined ourselves the happiest
creatures on earth; but I am not.  Sometimes it seems quite perfect for a few moments, but
something always happens to rub off the bloom.  Uncle Bernard is cross, or Mrs Wolff stupid,
or--or something else!  I believe we are not meant to be happy in this world!"

Mollie looked up with a quick flush of dissent.

"Oh, I think that is such a grudging idea!  I hate to hear people say it, and I can't think
how they can, when they look round, and see how bright and beautiful everything has been made!
If God had meant us to be dull and sad, would He have made all the flowers different colours,
and every season different from the last, and the sunsets and the dawn, and the wonderful changing
clouds?  It is just a gorgeous feast to delight our eyes of colour; and all the animals are
so cheerful, while they are young, at least--they skip and dance by instinct, so surely we
must be meant to be happy too!"

"I don't know," Ruth objected slowly.  "Animals have not souls and responsibilities, but we
have, and that keeps us serious.  The average man and woman is not happy, if you can judge
by appearances.  I remember reading about a man who walked about the streets of London all
day long to see how many people he should meet with a smile on their faces.  I forget how many
there were--half a dozen, perhaps--terribly few!"

"Well, there would have been thousands, if people were half as grateful as they should be.
Do you know, I sometimes think that what must grieve God more than almost anything else is
that so many people refuse to be happy, in spite of all He can do, and go on forgetting their
blessings, and making themselves miserable about little bits of silly worries and bothers day
after day.  Imagine if you had a child who was always grizzling, in spite of all your love
and care!  How would you feel?"

"But a child is a child.  We may be meant to be serious."

"You can be serious without being glum.  You can be happy without being thoughtless."

"Ah, Mollie dear," cried Ruth, turning to her sister and holding out her hand with a rush of
tenderness--"ah, Mollie dear, happiness is a gift, which you possess and I do not!  I am sad
even on this lovely day, in this lovely place.  It may be wrong, but I can't help it, yet I
don't think I am ungrateful."

"You are happy enough as a rule; but you do `sup sorrow with a spoon' when you get the chance,
old dear!  An hour ago, for instance, the sky seemed remarkably bright, and I could make a
shrewd guess at the reason of this cloud; but, if I did, I expect you would snap off my head
for my pains!"

"Yes, I should--I certainly should; so be careful what you say!" cried Ruth hastily.  Then,
as if eager to change the subject--"Here is James coming out with the afternoon letters.  I
hope there is one from home. It seems ages since we heard!"

"Trix!  For me.  How lovely!  I'll read it aloud!" cried Mollie, tearing open the envelope,
and unfolding several odd sheets torn out of an exercise-book and covered with large, untidy
handwriting.  Trix's characteristic epistles were always welcome, and this afternoon's specimen
had arrived in the very nick of time to stop an embarrassing discussion, and cheer Ruth's drooping
spirits.

Mollie lay back in her chair, and began reading in her clear fresh tones--

  "Darling Moll,--While you are basking in the lap of luxury, this poor
  critter is snatching a few precious moments from `prep' to answer your
  last epistle, and give what news there is.  First and foremost, mother
  is as well as possible, and goes about with an `open your mouth and
  shut your eyes, and in your mouth you'll find a prize' expression,
  which puzzles her friends into fits.  Poor mum simply dies to tell
  them that one of her daughters will shortly become a millionaire!  But
  she shuts her lips up tight, and looks more mysterious than ever,
  because, of course, there is a chance that it may not come off.  Don't
  let me ever see your faces again if it doesn't, that's all!

  "Fancy you having all those fine clothes!  I can't imagine how you
  would look respectably attired.  Kindly remember Beatrice Olivia for
  any cast-off fineries.  Hair-ribbons especially desired.  I've nothing
  left but an old Navy-blue, twisted up like a tape.

  "We had a general intelligence examination at school this week.
  Stupid old things!  One question was, `What is the complementary
  colour to red?'  I had never heard of a complementary colour in my
  life, and I was just racking my brains to think what to say, when my
  eyes happened to light on Miss Smith's carrots.  `Ah, ha,' thinks I,
  `I have it!'  So I put down `auburn,' and was jolly well pleased with
  myself until lunch-time came, when I was telling Gladys my answers,
  and Miss Bateson heard me, and went into perfect fits!  It seems
  complementary means something idiotic about two colours making a white
  light--as if they ever could!  Anyway, I think my answer was very
  pretty and tactful--don't you? and I hope it will soften Smithy's hard
  heart.

  "Another silly question was, `Order a dinner for a class of twelve
  Board-school children, and state what quantities of each article are
  required.'  One girl ordered a pound of roast beef and a pound of
  potatoes for each child, and ten and a half yards of Swiss-roll for
  the whole class!  I ordered the `scrag-end of the neck.'  Haven't the
  least idea what it means, but I thought it sounded cheap.  I likewise
  gave them suet dumplings for pudding.  Hope they liked them!

  "Is Mr Melland's ankle getting better?  Have you had any more
  callers, invitations, rides, excursions, or excitements generally?
  Please answer my questions next time, and don't ignore them, as you
  generally do.  Drummond had a fine adventure yesterday.  Another small
  boy dared him to stick his head between our railings, and he did, but
  it wouldn't come out!  He pushed, and the small boy pulled, and a
  crowd collected right across the pavement, making kind suggestions,
  and commenting on the size of his ears.  Whenever he tried to get
  back, the railings caught them, and they stuck out like sails.
  Finally his pride gave way, and he howled, and a friendly policeman
  coming along, poked the rails apart with a stick, or did something or
  other, and out he came with a rush.  He looked very crushed in every
  sense all the evening, so we hope it may be a lesson to him.

  "The next-door girls have new hats--mustard straw, draped with green,
  and roses under the brim.  It seems so sad to reflect that the poor
  dears probably imagine they look quite nice!

  "How is the Ogre?  Does he still live in his den, and growl when you
  appear?  I should be very glad he did shut himself up, when he is so
  cross and disagreeable!

  "Well, ta-ta, my darlings!  I miss you at home, but I can't say I pine
  for your return, for it's quite pleasant to be Number One for a
  change, and boss Attica and the Muz.  Take care of yourselves, behave
  prettily, and don't forget the hair-ribbons.--Your loving Trix."

"Wild child!" said Ruth, smiling.  "She does write the most absurd letters!  Better tear that
up at once, Mollie, or burn it when you get into the house.  You have such a trick of leaving
things about, and it isn't safe.  Uncle Bernard might--"

She started violently, and Mollie jumped to her feet as a harsh voice interrupted the sentence--

"Uncle Bernard has already had the pleasure of hearing the way in which a member of your family
writes of him to a visitor in his own house. Ideas of loyalty seem to have altered since my
young days, when it was considered a breach of decent feeling to eat a man's salt and speak
slightingly of him behind his back!"

Ruth sat silent, crimson to the roots of her hair; Mollie shuffled miserably from one foot
to another, but did not shrink from the old man's angry gaze.

"But how did you hear, Uncle Bernard?  Have you been sitting behind this open window, listening
to us all the while we have been talking?  I don't think it is quite fair to do that."

"Don't you, indeed!  I happened to be reading in my armchair, when you came and planted your
chairs immediately outside.  I was the first- comer, you observe, not yourselves, and I cannot
say I was interested enough to listen to your conversation until my attention was attracted
by the description of myself.  I presume the very descriptive title was originally your invention?"

He planted his stick on the ground, and stared fixedly in Mollie's face. The grey eyes fell
before his, and she answered hesitatingly--

"I'm--I'm afraid it was."

"And do you think it was good manners to write in such a way of your host?"

"No, I don't; I think it was hateful.  But--"

"But?"

Mollie took a step forward, and laid a timid hand on his arm.

"But, in a sort of way, it is true.  You shut yourself up, and you do growl, and even when
you are kind, you pretend to be cross.  We have tried and tried to be friends with you, but
you won't let us.  We have said over and over again that we felt as if we were living in an
hotel, and it has been a trouble to us all.  I don't wonder you feel angry; but don't you think
you are a wee bit in the wrong yourself?"

Mr Farrell stared down at the eager face, the wide grey eyes, the little hand upon his arm,
then deliberately drew himself away, saying coldly--

"You would make a good lawyer, my dear.  You have a clever trick of evading an awkward question,
and shifting the blame from your own shoulders.  You will excuse me if I say that I can scarcely
consent to discuss my own conduct with a girl of your years.  The point I mentioned was your
own conduct in writing disrespectfully of your host."

"I know, and I've said already that it was horrid; but it was not so horrid as you think. 
Trix is my sister, and we all have a habit of exaggerating and using stronger terms than we
really mean.  We have a habit of giving nicknames, too.  They are not complimentary as a rule,
but we don't mean to be unkind.  If you read some of Trix's other letters, you would see that
we have not been altogether ungrateful. Will you read them?  I have them all upstairs, and
could bring them down in a moment."

"You are very good.  Judging from the specimen I have heard, I think I would rather decline
the honour."

"Yes; but you ought not to decline!  It isn't a question of enjoyment; it's a question of justice
to Ruth and to me.  You accuse us of being disloyal and ungrateful, so it's only fair you should
hear our defence. I will bring down the letters, and you can read them at your leisure. They
may bore you a little, but you will see that we are not so bad as you think, and that we have
not always been uncomplimentary."

She walked hastily towards the house, leaving Ruth and the old man alone.  He stood leaning
on his stick, staring fixedly at her with his sunken eyes; but her head remained persistently
drooped, the dark lashes lying on the flushed cheeks.

In the tension of that silence she could hear the beating of her own heart, and her ears strained
nervously for the sound of returning footsteps.  She had not long to wait.  With a clatter,
Mollie came scrambling out of the library window, the letters in her hand.

"There's our defence!  Please read them before you scold us any more."

Mr Farrell took the letters, thrust them into his pocket, then stood silently, as if waiting
for something more.

Mollie stared at him curiously, but he paid no attention to her; his gaze was fixed on Ruth's
bent figure and downcast face.  At length, surprised at the prolonged silence, she lifted her
eyes with a frightened glance, and immediately Uncle Bernard broke into speech.

"Yes, I was waiting for you!  Have you nothing to say on your own account?" he demanded sternly.
"You seem content to sit silently and let your sister fight your battles.  Is it because you
are innocent of having offended in the same way yourself?"

Ruth's cheeks flushed to an even deeper rose.

"I," she stammered--"I--I'm sorry!  I didn't mean--"

Mr Farrell turned to re-enter the house.

"Ah," he said coldly," so it was cowardice, after all!  I understand. It is an interesting
discovery!"

CHAPTER TWENTY.

RECEIVING AND PAYING CALLS.

Two days later Mr Farrell returned Trix's letters with a brief "Thank you!" which Mollie had
enough tact to receive without remark.  She was not conscious of having gained in the old man's
graces, though Ruth was sadly conscious of having fallen from favour.  Victor was evidently
for the time being the persona grata, his remarks being received with attention, and his wishes
carefully carried out.

Mollie confessed to herself that Victor's manners were perfect where his host was concerned,
and wondered why it was that she found herself constantly suspecting his motives.  What if
he were playing a part to win the old man's favour?  Was it not the unhappy feature of the
situation that they were all, more or less, doing the same thing?

Meantime, callers arrived daily.  Stout, middle-aged matrons, with pompous manners; thin matrons,
precise and formal of speech; tall elegants, with flowing robes and Parisian millinery; sporting-looking
women, with short skirts and motor-caps.  One after another they drove up to the door and sat
for a few moments in the drawing-room, going through the same stereotyped conversation: "How
pleasant to have the Court opened once more!  How do you like Raby?  How delightful to have
such delightful summer-like weather!"  Then they drank a cup of tea, nibbled a piece of cake,
and said: "Good-afternoon!  So pleased to have met you!  We shall hope to see you again very soon!"

Occasionally the matron brought a daughter in her train, and still more occasionally a shy,
depressed-looking husband; but at the best of times the calls were not cheerful occasions,
and Ruth and Mollie looked forward with little pleasure to paying their return visits.

"Though it must at least be more interesting than receiving at home, for we shall see other
people's houses, and the way they arrange their drawing-rooms.  I do love studying strange
drawing-rooms!" said Ruth meditatively.  "In country houses they ought to be charming--all
chintzy and smelling of pot-pourri!  All the same, Mollie, I'm disappointed in the neighbours.
They aren't a bit thrilling, as we expected."

"People generally seem uninteresting at first.  They may turn out to be perfect darlings, when
we know them better.  I dare say they drove away saying the same thing of us, for we behaved
like a couple of marionettes, sitting dressed up in our best, saying, `Yes, indeed!' `No, indeed!'
`Very much, indeed!'  `Thank you so much!' as if we were wound up by machinery.  We must really
launch out, and say something a trifle more original!"

It was quite an exciting occasion when the girls set out on their first calling expedition.
It was an ideal May afternoon, and the prospect of driving over the countryside in an open
carriage, behind two prancing horses, was in itself a delight.

Victor was to make one of the party, but Jack refused contemptuously to accompany them if only
for the drive, declaring that even a sprained ankle had its silver lining if it let him off
so boring a function.  He was sitting in the hall, waiting to cheer--or more strictly speaking,
to jeer--the departure, when Ruth came downstairs buttoning her gloves, and, to her surprise,
Mr Farrell was also present.

Both men looked up critically as she appeared, but neither glance was altogether approving.
Her new dress looked too old and staid for so young a girl; moreover, her expression was fretful
and worried.  As she reached the spot where the two men were seated, Victor came into the hall
from the doorway and looked round impatiently.

"Are you ready, Miss Ruth?  The carriage has been waiting for some time now."

"Oh, I have been ready for ages!  It's Mollie who is the laggard.  She has been dressing ever
since lunch, and is dressing still.  I don't know when she will be finished."

Mr Farrell turned imperiously to the butler.

"Be kind enough to send a message to Miss Mary that I object to having the horses kept waiting.
Three o'clock was the hour arranged, and it is already a quarter past.  Ask how soon she will
be ready!"

The man departed, and there was an uncomfortable silence for several minutes, broken at last
by the banging of a door and the sound of racing footsteps.  A white-and-blue vision came flying
down the staircase, with filmy skirts floating behind, white feathers drooping over the golden
hair, a cobweb parasol unfurled, and held triumphantly aloft.

"I'm sorry!  It took such ages to fasten, and I had to take my hair down and do it up again
to get the hat at the right angle.  I wanted to fasten my gloves, to give you the whole effect,
parasol and all. There!"  Mollie strutted to and fro, turning her head from side to side like
a sleek, self-satisfied pigeon.  "How do you like it?  Don't you think I look rather--nice?"

The two young men laughed aloud, and Mr Farrell said drily--

"Fine feathers make fine birds!  I am glad to see that you have honoured my friends by wearing
your fineries for their benefit.  Ruth, I presume, prefers to keep hers for another occasion?"

Ruth dropped her eyelids and vouchsafed no reply.  There was a little lump in her throat at
that moment which would have made it difficult to speak in her usual voice.  It was hard to
have denied herself for naught, and less than naught, for Mollie's extravagance seemed more
to the old man's taste than her own prudence.  It was not the first time that the difference
in their attire had been the subject of little edged remarks, which had made her bitterly regret
the lost opportunity.

Seated in the carriage opposite Victor, she was still further depressed by the fear that he
was also comparing her with Mollie, to her own disadvantage; but there was no hint of such
a thought in his look or manner.  The dark eyes met hers with sympathetic understanding.  At
every point he deferred to her opinion with a subtle flattery which was inexpressibly soothing
to her wounded feelings.

The occupants of the first house on the list were not at home, so a sheaf of cards were left,
and the carriage sped on another mile to Number 2, where the family were discovered superintending
the arrangements of bedding-out plants round the front lawn.  They greeted the visitors with
easy cordiality, consulted them on the knotty question of geraniums versus begonias, escorted
them round the gardens, and were vociferously reproachful when they refused to stay another
half- hour to partake of tea.

As the carriage drove up the drive leading to the third house, a masculine figure was seen
rushing to conceal itself behind the bushes, and the visitors had hard work to conceal their
smiles when their hostess sent an urgent message to summon her husband from the grounds, and,
on hearing that he could not be found, expressed her conviction that he would be woefully disappointed
to have missed the pleasure of making their acquaintance.

"A fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind!  I don't feel a bit of a grudge against that fellow,"
Victor said laughingly, as they drove off once more.  "With your permission, I am going to
follow his example and make a bolt of it when we get back to the high-road.  I shall enjoy
the walk home, after being cramped up all afternoon.  You will excuse me, won't you?"

"But we are going to the Moat.  That's the next house on the list. Don't you want to see Lady
Margot?" cried Mollie, outspoken as usual.

Both girls stared at him in amazement, but there was no sign of embarrassment on the handsome,
smiling face.

"Very much, of course, but not enough to face another drawing-room catechism, accompanied by
draughts of strong tea.  There will be no escape this time, so you must be generous, and let
me run for it, like poor Mr Granger!  I have been very good and docile, but if you only knew
how I am longing for freedom!"

There was no gainsaying such a request, nor, indeed, did either of the girls particularly wish
to do so.

They made no objections, therefore, but, putting Victor down at the cross-roads, drove on their
way in great good-humour.

The Moat was a picturesque old house, though by no means so imposing as the Court.  The man-servant
reported that Mrs Blount was not well enough to receive visitors, but that Lady Margot was
at home and disengaged; and the visitors were shown into a pleasant, sunny apartment, where
Margot herself was seated reading.  She looked up apprehensively at the sound of the opening
door; but at the sight of the two girls her expression changed, and she came forward to greet
them with an eagerness which could not be mistaken.

"This is good of you to come so soon!  And I am alone, so we can have a delightful chat all
to ourselves.  Bring tea, Wilson, please.  Do come and sit down, and let me make you comfortable!
My aunt is not downstairs to-day, and I was getting so bored with my own society that I am
doubly pleased to see you!  There are so few girls of my own age in this neighbourhood that
I find it rather dull after the rush and bustle of town.  It is so good of you to be here at
the same time as me!"

"It is very nice for us," responded Mollie brightly; while truthful Ruth hesitated to find
some reply which would be at once polite and non- committal.  "But isn't it a strange time
for you to come to this quiet place, when London is at its brightest and gayest?"

"Ah, thereby hang many tales!" cried Lady Margot, laughing.  "The most important is, perhaps,
that I am not strong enough to go through a season just now; but I have no intention of being
dull even in Raby.  We must amuse each other and do all kinds of nice things together.  The
great lack on my visits, so far, has been to find any other girls with whom I could be intimate;
but now that you are here it will be quite different."

"But we are only country-cousins, Lady Margot.  You will find that we are very ignorant of
the things that have made up your life.  We are very poor at home, and have had to do most
of our gaieties in imagination," said Ruth; while Mollie gave a little gurgle of laughter,
and cried--

"Let's tell her about Berengaria and Lucille!"

Lady Margot looked her curiosity, and, when the nature of the game was explained in detail
in Mollie's breezy language, went into peals of delighted laughter, and rocked to and fro in
her chair.

"How lovely--oh, how lovely!  I do think it is too funny!  I must call you Berengaria and Lucille.
Do you mind?  Such wonderful names!  How did you manage to hit on them?  I used to imagine,
too; and what do you think was my dream?  Instead of being a lonely only girl, I was a large
family of grown-up sisters, and schoolboys coming home for the holidays, and little dots in
the nursery--all in my own little self.  You can't imagine how dull it is to be an only girl!"

"No," asserted Ruth doubtfully.  "But rather nice to get all the petting and consideration!
When you are the eldest of seven children, you are always expected to set an example, and it
is very wearing at times.  How delightful that you amused yourself `pretending,' just as we
did!  That makes quite a bond of union between us!"

"Yes, indeed!  But lucky creatures, your dream seems about to come true, while I am as lonely
as ever.  Your position at the Court is so romantic!  You don't mind my speaking about it,
do you, because everyone knows, and is so interested in the result?  Of course, one of you
must be the lucky heir; and then we shall be neighbours, and see each other constantly.  Which
is it to be--Berengaria, or Lucille?"

"Mollie!" said Ruth.

"Ruth!" said Mollie.  "Don't believe her, Lady Margot.  She is a wee bit out of favour the
last few days, but I haven't a chance beside her.  She has the Farrell eyebrows, you see, and
the Farrell frown, and poise of the head.  When she is sitting in the dining-room, you could
tell at once that she was a descendant of the oil-paintings.  I often see Uncle Bernard looking
from her to them, and he is far more amiable to her than to any of us, as a rule.  We all agree
that she is far and away the chief favourite."

"Really!  You discuss it among yourselves, and come to the same conclusions.  How interesting!"
said Lady Margot.  "And the two men-- your cousins--do they have no chance at all, poor things?"
she asked lightly.

"They are not our cousins.  They belong to different sides of the house, and we had never met
till we came down here.  Mr Melland refuses to be considered as a `candidate,' and is staying
only till his ankle is better.  Mr Druce,"--Ruth hesitated uncertainly--"he is very nice to
Uncle Bernard.  They talk together a good deal.  Sometimes I think his chance is very good."

"He is certainly second favourite, so far; but we have more than two months still before us.
I intend to cut them both out long before then. May I have one of those dear little scones?
I am quite hungry after my drive!"  Mollie said, as she in turn was presented with a dainty
Worcester cup.

She watched Lady Margot with intent eyes, as she flitted about the room, placing little tables
beside her guests for their greater convenience.

"Such a plain dress, and almost no jewellery, and her hair so simply done; but she looks a
Lucille through and through, as I should never do, however fine I might be!" she said admiringly
to herself.

"We must think what we shall do to amuse ourselves, mustn't we?  You have begun your round
of dinners already, I hear; but in Raby they are apt to be a trifle too agricultural.  All
the men talk about their crops at this time of the year, and, as the prospects are generally
bad, they get gloomier and gloomier as each course comes on.  Mr Druce told me that Mr Early
has paid you a visitation, so, if you take his conversation as a sample, you can judge of the
combined effect.  I don't ask what he talked about, because I know!"

"Yes," murmured Ruth vaguely, while her eye met Mollie's in an involuntary appeal.  "Mr Druce
told me!"--But Mr Early's call had taken place only three days before, nearly a week after
Lady Margot's visit to the Court.  "Mr Druce told me!"  That meant that Margot had met Victor
yesterday or the day before, and had talked with him some time, for the prosy Mr Early would
not be an early subject of conversation.  Victor often went out riding alone, and there was
no reason in the world why he should not call on an old acquaintance.  But why make a mystery
of it, and avoid the call to-day by an obvious subterfuge?  Ruth was very quiet for the rest
of the visit, and Lady Margot glanced at her more than once as she chatted with Mollie.  When
tea was over she came out to the porch to watch their departure.

"Au revoir, Berengaria--au revoir, Lucille!" she cried gaily, as the carriage drove away; but
as she turned from the door, the smile faded from her face, and was replaced by a very thoughtful
expression.

"I see--I see it all!  Poor pretty thing!" she said tenderly to herself. "I am sorry for her
and for poor Margot, too!  Which of us, I wonder, is the more to be pitied?"

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

PREPARING FOR THE GARDEN-PARTY.

Mrs Thornton took counsel with her husband as to the best form of hospitality she could show
to the squire's visitors.

"I want to be one of the first to entertain them formally.  It is a duty in our position,"
she explained.  "The girls have been to tea several times, and that dear Mollie runs up to
the nursery as naturally as if she were at home; but I think we ought to do more.  The squire
will expect it; and then the question is, dear--what can we do?"

"Just so."  The vicar smiled, half amused, half quizzical.  "The means at our disposal are
distinctly limited.  We can't ask them to dinner, because the staff is incapable of cooking
and serving an extensive meal."

"And there are only three sherry-glasses left, and Mary broke the round glass dish last week--the
one I always used for the trifle.  And the dinner-service...  We really must buy a new dinner-service,
Stanford!"

"We really must, Agnes--some time!  I think all the objections taken together put the dinner-party
out of the question.  Would not a somewhat more formal tea--"

"No."  Mrs Thornton shook her head decidedly.  "A formal tea is the most depressing function
imaginable.  If it was a little later on, I would suggest a hay-party.  As it is, I am afraid
it must be a garden- party, pure and simple."

The vicar laughed.

"Simple, it certainly would be.  Our poor little lawn, one tennis-court, and the flower-garden
a mass of weeds!  We can't afford a band of minstrels, or even the ordinary ices and hothouse
fruits.  I am afraid it might be rather a failure, Agnes."

But Mrs Thornton refused to be discouraged.

"Nonsense, dear!  People don't expect extravagant entertainments at a vicarage!  The children
and I can undertake the weeding, and when that is done the dear old herbaceous borders will
look charming!  The lawn is not big, but there is delightful shade beneath the beech-trees,
and we can draw the piano up to the drawing-room window, and get a few people to sing for us--Maud
Bailey and Mrs Reed; and I believe Mr Druce has a fine voice.  I'll ask him to be very kind,
and give us a song.  As for refreshments, I can give good tea and coffee, and the best cream
for miles around, and people can exist without ices for once in a way. Given a bright, fine
day, I could manage beautifully!"

"I have no doubt you could.  But why go through the ceremony of asking my advice, Mistress
Thornton, when your mind has been made up from the beginning?  Go your ways--go your ways!
I wash my hands of all responsibility!" cried the vicar, laughing, as he walked back to his
study, leaving his wife to sit down to her desk and make out a lengthy list of guests, which
included everyone of note for miles round.

During the days to come Mr Thornton often sympathised with his wife on the amount of work she
had undertaken in order to entertain the squire's guests; but, even to his unobservant eyes,
it was apparent that, so far from being exhausted, she throve beneath it, and appeared brighter
and younger than for years past.  All work and no play has an even more depressing effect upon
Jill than on Jack, and Mrs Thornton was by instinct a hospitable creature, who would have loved
nothing better than a houseful of guests and a constant succession of entertainments.  With
small means, a large family, and a straggling parish, her time and energy were for the most
part engrossed in sheer hard work, so that the prospect of a little "jollification," as she
laughingly expressed it, came as a welcome variety.

The invitations to the Court were sent out first, to make sure of the most important guests,
and down came the girls with notes of acceptance, and a hundred curious questions.

"Who is coming?  What are you going to do?  What dresses shall we wear? Can we help?" they
asked eagerly; whereupon Mrs Thornton laughed, and replied hesitatingly--

"It is most incorrect; you ought to know nothing of the make-shifts, but just drive down to
enjoy the completed effect; but, yes,--I cannot resist the pleasure of your company.  Come,
if you like, and I'll promise you some real hard work."

"That's right; and you'll find us so useful!  We have been born and brought up on make-shifts,
and can make anything out of nothing, and a box of tacks--can't we, Ruth?" cried Mollie, in
the brutally outspoken manner which always brought a flush into her sister's face.

It was not so much foolish shame at the fact of poverty, but the stab of painful repugnance
which came with the remembrance of the bareness and lack of beauty which characterised the
old life.  After a month's sojourn at the Court the day of small things seemed far away, and
she shrank at the possibility of returning to it as a permanency.

When Mrs Thornton began to enumerate her difficulties, and escorted the girls from one room
to another to ask their advice upon various knotty points, it was like the probing of a wound
to Ruth's sensitive nerves. The house itself was roomy and well built, but in a hopeless state
of disrepair.  The paint was worn and dingy; the wallpapers so old- fashioned and discoloured
that all Mrs Thornton's painstaking efforts after cheerfulness and beauty were foiled by the
inartistic background.

"I shed tears over the drawing-room paper when I was first married," said Mrs Thornton, with
a laugh and a shrug.  "But, as one gets older, there are so many more serious things to cry
over that one learns to be philosophical.  I thought I might put some big, spreading branches
in these old pots to cover the walls as much as possible, for we must have some rooms available
in case of a shower.  A wet day is too terrible a catastrophe to contemplate, so we won't even
imagine it.  Given sunshine and unlimited borrowing, we can struggle through.  Think of it,
my dears--I have invited over a hundred people, and we possess twelve teaspoons!"

Mollie gurgled with laughter in her hearty, infectious manner.

"I'd give up sugar for the day, and do without.  That's one off the list.  Shall we ask the
butler to send down a supply?  I'm sure he has hundreds stowed away in those great plate-chests."

"My dear, no!  I should not think of it!" cried Mrs Thornton, aghast. "I can manage quite well
without troubling the squire.  Pray don't repeat any of my thoughtless remarks to him.  My
husband says that my tongue runs away with me far too often."

Ruth protested politely, but Mollie preserved an unusual silence for the rest of the visit.
She was evidently thinking hard, and the result of her cogitations was, that when she returned
to the Court she paid a surprise visit to Mr Farrell in his sanctum.

The old man was sitting reading in his favourite chair, and as he looked up it struck Mollie
that he looked more alert than she had seen him since her arrival.  The voice in which he answered
her greeting was certainly less wearied and fretful than usual.  He looked, if such a miracle
could be believed, almost pleased to see her.

"Well,--so you have returned from your wanderings!"

"Yes, here I am, come to bother you again.  There's a whole half-hour before you need begin
to dress, and I've something very important to talk to you about."

"What does that mean, pray?  More new dresses?  I should have thought you could hardly have
come to the end of the last supply by this time."

"Goodness, no!  They will last for years.  It is something far more important."

Mollie seated herself on a low chair directly opposite the old man, leant her elbows on her
knees, her chin on her hands, and said hesitatingly--

"Uncle Bernard!"

"Mary!"

"Do you remember the first evening we were here, when you spoke to us about our visit?  You
said that you might possibly allow each of us in turn to act as master or mistress of the ceremonies
for a short time?"

"I believe I did say something of the kind.  It occurred to me that it might be an interesting
experiment."

"And did you mean that we could really do what we liked, about money and everything else, just
as if we were really and truly the real owner in your place?"

Mr Farrell smiled somewhat grimly.

"If your sister asked me that question, I should say `Yes.'  Knowing as I do your capacity
for extravagance, I am a little more cautious. Within reasonable limits that is, however, what
I meant to imply."

"Ah!" sighed Mollie deeply.  "But it all depends on what you call reasonable.  At any rate,
you can only refuse, and things can be no worse than they are at present.  Please, Uncle Bernard,
may I begin my reign from to-day?"

"Your reign!  You put it forcibly, my dear--more so than is perhaps quite pleasant in my ears.
And you are the youngest of the four; your turn should come last, not first.  When the others
have had their trial--"

"But they have never asked for it; they don't want it, and I do; and you said nothing about
taking turns when you made the suggestion.  If you let me begin, they could take warning from
my mistakes.  I don't think you would find they disliked the arrangement.  Do, please, be kind
and say `Yes.'"

Mr Farrell reflected for a moment, bringing the tips of his fingers together.

"As you say, you are the first to express any desire to take me at my word.  If it pleases
you to assume the reins of government for a short time, I have no objection."

"You mean it really?  I can begin at once, and give what orders I like?"

"Subject, as I have said, to some possible restrictions if your enthusiasm carries you too
far.  There is evidently some big scheme looming behind this request.  You had better let me
know the worst at once.  What is to be your first extravagance?"

Mollie's head still rested in the cup of her hands.  She looked at him steadily, with a little
flame of determination in her grey eyes.

"I am going to have the vicarage painted and papered from top to bottom. It's disgracefully
shabby!  The paper is hanging off the walls in some places, and where it isn't, it would be
almost better if it were, it is so ugly and worn.  It is too bad to expect Mr and Mrs Thornton
to do all the hard, depressing work of the parish and keep bright and cheerful themselves,
when their home is enough to give the blues to a clown!  It looks as if it hadn't been touched
for a century!"

Mr Farrell lowered his eyelids and sat in a grim silence, while the clock ticked a full two
minutes.  Mollie, watching his face, saw the thin lips grow thinner and thinner, as they were
pressed the more firmly together; the horizontal lines in his forehead deepened into furrows.
There was no mistaking the fact that he was displeased, and deeply displeased, even before
the cold eyes met hers once more.

"I had no intention now, or at any other time, of allowing you to assume control over the whole
parish!  My proposition referred simply to this house and your own entertainment.  I am still
capable of looking after my own property."

"But--" began Mollie, and stopped short.

Even her courage failed before the obvious retort that the property was not looked after, but
allowed to fall into dilapidation; but Mr Farrell understood without the need of words, and
his eyes flashed with anger.

"You must permit me to judge for myself!  When my day is over, whoever comes into possession
can squander my money as he or she sees fit, but I cannot hurry the time forward, however much
you may desire it.  You must be patient and wait.  It may come sooner than you think."

Mollie sprang to her feet with an exclamation of mingled pain and anger.

"Oh, Uncle Bernard, how cruel!  How can you say anything so horrid and unjust!  It isn't true,
and you know it isn't true, and I don't deserve it!  I only asked for what you yourself suggested."

"I never suggested that you should interfere with my property, and criticise what I had chosen
to do or left undone.  As for not deserving reproach, you must have made very sure of stepping
into my shoes since you wish to wear them while I am still here.  No doubt I appear to you
a mere cumberer of the ground; but it is my ground, I would have you remember.  You cannot
take liberties with it yet awhile."

"I don't want it!  I never want it!  I'll go home to-morrow!  You have no right to taunt me
like this!" cried Mollie, trembling with such a storm of indignation and wounded feeling as
she had rarely known in her bright, easy-going existence.

A rush of ugly words came to her lips, and struggled for utterance, while Mr Farrell sank back
in his chair, and lay crouched against the cushions, one thin hand pressed heavily over his
heart.  The look, the action, brought Mollie to herself with a stab of recollection.

Whatever he had said to wound her pride, she had no right to forget his weakness, his danger,
his lonely, piteous age.  Anger died a rapid death, and gave place to an even keener sympathy.
When Mr Farrell looked up again, it was to find the grey eyes wet with tears, and the lips
trembling with emotion.

"Oh, you poor old man--you poor old man!  Why will you make it so difficult?  Why won't you
let us love you and be a comfort, instead of a trouble?  We would, if you would allow us. 
We want to, but you keep us at arm's length, and scold and sneer.  I am not thinking of myself.
I am young and strong, and I have my home and my dear little mother.  I shall be happy, whatever
happens.  It's you I am sorry for!  I hate to see you ill and lonely.  You have given a great
deal to me; can't you be generous enough to take something in return?  There are only two months
left.  The time is nearly half over.  Can't we be friends--real friends--until the end?"

She drew nearer as she spoke, and saw no rebuff in the watching face, until at last she sank
on her knees before him, and timidly touched his hand.

"Uncle Bernard, speak!  Say something to me!"

Still the old man hesitated; but his hand lay quietly in hers, and did not try to escape.

"What can I say?" he asked slowly at last.  "I believe you are a good child; I believe you
are honest; but my days are past for making friendships.  I have felt deeply in my time, but
the power of loving died away with everything else which made life worth living.  I cannot
promise what is impossible."

"But you can at least give me a chance of loving you.  I won't ask any more favours if you
will just talk to me a little sometimes, without sneering at me, and let me walk with you about
the grounds and be a little bit of a companion.  Will you?  You might get to like me a little
bit in time, and it would not be quite so lonely."

"I can imagine things less impossible.  You are a good child; but remember, Mollie, my liking
or not liking has nothing to do with my choice of an heir.  The condition to which I referred
might easily apply to one who appealed to me in no other way.  It is only right to warn you."

But the listener took no heed of the warning.  Her face was one radiant beam of delight.

"You called me `Mollie'!" she cried.  "It was the very first time!  That really does sound
as if we were going to be friends?"

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO.

MR. FARRELL MAKES HIS WILL.

It was not in human nature--not in Mollie's nature, at least--to resist "showing off" a little
after that momentous interview, and her sudden familiarity with their host filled her companions
with amazed curiosity. Ruth had naturally heard all that had passed, and loyally stifled the
dawning of envy, but the young men were at a loss to account for what seemed to them a mysterious
change of favourites.

"Miss Mollie is outstripping us all!  She has stepped into the position of first favourite
this last fortnight," Victor Druce said, as the four young people sat on the terrace steps
waiting for tea, a few days after the visit to the vicarage.

He laughed as he spoke, but in a half-hearted manner, and tugged heavily at the ends of his
moustache, while he scrutinised Mollie's face through half-closed lids.  She beamed at him
gaily in response, scorning mock- modest protestations.

"Oh yes; we understand each other ever so much better!  I have been impressing upon him ever
since our first meeting that I am really very nice, and at last he is beginning to realise
it for himself.  He likes me very much.  He told me so with his very own lips; but he told
me something else, too."

"Yes!  May we inquire--"

"Oh, certainly!  It is quite as interesting to you as to me.  Liking has nothing whatever to
do with the mysterious condition; he may quite probably choose the one of us he cares for least,
as his heir. `Curiouser and curiouser,' as Alice said; isn't it?"

"Humph!  There may be a chance for me, after all," said Jack lightly.

Victor knitted his brows, and tugged once more at his moustache.

"He said so definitely--you are sure you are not mistaken?  Then how can one possibly judge?
That upsets all our theories at a blow."

"That's what I thought myself.  I felt sure that it would be Ruth, but now I am all at sea;
but, for my own part, I'm glad.  It is easier to be good friends when there is nothing mercenary
involved."

Mollie smiled her sunny, candid smile, and lay back in her deck-chair, her hands clasped easily
behind her head.  It was delightful to laze in the sunshine, to feel at peace with all the
world.  The present was so all-absorbing that she had no time to worry her head about the future;
but Ruth sat by her side, with unseeing eyes bent upon her book, while the swift thoughts surged
through her brain.

She also had felt inwardly convinced that Uncle Bernard's choice would fall upon herself, who
was so truly a daughter of his race, and it had been a shock to learn that there was nothing
to be deduced from his signs of preference; but of late days there was another problem which
was becoming of even more vital interest than the heirship of the Court.

Even as she sat there, with averted head, she was acutely conscious of Victor's presence. 
She seemed to know, without looking in his direction, the absorbed, contented expression of
the dark face.  She knew it so well by this time--knew it in an aspect which no one saw but
herself; for when they were alone together, it was as if a mask fell away, and revealed the
true man.  Then he looked at her with open admiration, spoke unreservedly of himself, and drew
her out to tell of her own life, and hopes, and ambitions.  And there were even more thrilling
moments, when the talk ceased, and they sat side by side, silent, yet absorbed, acutely conscious
of each other's presence; delightfully, inexplicably confused.

At such moments Ruth confessed to herself that this man, whose very existence she had been
unaware of a few weeks before, was fast becoming to her the most important person in the world,
and it seemed as certain that he reciprocated her feelings.  At such moments, yes! but certainty
died away into uneasy doubt, as upon the approach of a third person-- even the insignificant
Mrs Wolff herself--Victor fell back into his carefully conventional manner.

It was not that she expected or desired any demonstration in public. Ruth was by nature far
too reserved to welcome such an exhibition; but the two attitudes were so widely divided, Victor's
care in keeping them apart so sedulous, that she could not but be perturbed.  Ruth's heart
had never before been touched; but love needs no apprenticeship, and she felt by instinct that
such self-control was unnatural.  Surely, surely, if he really "cared," there would be moments
when his eyes would involuntarily meet hers, when his voice would soften in tone.

Then there was Lady Margot Blount!  What was the real history of that acquaintanceship?  Why
did Victor affect to avoid her, while really meeting her in secret?

While Ruth sat dreaming, tea was brought out, and Mr Farrell came limping down the terrace
to join the party.  It was not often that he favoured them with his presence at the afternoon
meal, but the day was so fine and sunny that it was really warmer out of doors than in the
house, and as he sat he spread out his wrinkled hands, evidently enjoying the newly-found heat.

Ruth waited upon him with a pretty deference, while Mollie chattered on in her usual unabashed
fashion.  The old man appeared to pay no attention, but he evidently listened more closely
than he cared to admit, for a casual mention of Margot Blount's name evoked a quick glance
and question--

"You all seem to speak of Lady Margot in a very familiar fashion; I have not the pleasure of
her acquaintance, but from all I have heard I should not imagine she was inclined to make friendships
lightly.  You have met her--how often?  Once or twice?"

He looked at Mollie as he spoke, but Mollie deliberately avoided his eyes, turning towards
Victor in a marked manner, which left him no choice but to reply.  It was a mischievous impulse
to avenge herself and Ruth for his desertion of a few days before, and to discover the truth
about that secret meeting of which Margot herself had spoken.  Her face seemed solemnity itself
to the casual observer, but as he looked at her Jack choked suddenly over his tea, and hitched
his chair in an opposite direction.  He would have laughed outright if he had looked one moment
longer.  As for Victor, his dark eyes shot out a spark of annoyance, just one; then he answered
with smiling unconcern--

"Lady Margot and I are not quite strangers, sir; I met her in town a good deal last year. 
We have some friends in common.  It was only renewing an acquaintance when we met again the
other day."

"Indeed--indeed!"  Mr Farrell looked unusually interested and alert. "I am glad to hear that.
The Blounts are some of the most important people in the neighbourhood.  In the old days there
was a strong friendship between the two families, which I should be pleased to see renewed.
You were introduced to the old people when you called at the Moat, I presume?"

Here was a direct question which could not be avoided.  Jack and Mollie turned towards Victor
with glances of elaborately veiled curiosity. Ruth clattered the tea-cups together, carefully
averting her eyes. Anxious as she was to hear the reply, she hated the knowledge that Victor
was being placed in an awkward position,--hated the consciousness that the others were enjoying
the embarrassment.

The pause lasted but a moment; then Victor spoke in his most casual tones--

"No; I have not seen them yet.  I have run across Lady Margot once or twice in my morning rides,
and had the opportunity of a talk with her, so I thought it better to defer a more formal call.
Miss Farrell was kind enough to leave my card, but I did not wish to put myself too much en
evidence!"

Mr Farrell frowned.

"You had better go soon, then--the sooner the better.  As you know the niece, there is all
the more reason for paying due respect to the uncle and aunt.  You will no doubt receive an
invitation after this exchange of visits, and it must be returned as soon as possible.  I knew
the girl's father in his youth.  He was a fine fellow.  If she is like him, she must be worth
knowing.  She cannot be very young,--nearer thirty than twenty, I should say.  It is a wonder
that she is not married, or engaged.  Is she engaged, do you happen to know?"

Again the others waited, leaving Victor to reply, and for the first time a faint flush showed
itself on his cheek.

"I believe not.  There was no talk of it last autumn.  I have heard no rumours--"

"I am surprised at that.  It is a poor family, and she will have little or no money; but the
name and position ought to count for something. They would be almost more valuable than money
to a young man beginning life."

"I am thankful that I have no name or position!  I should like my husband to value me for myself,
not for what I possessed!" cried Mollie quickly.

It gave her an uncomfortable feeling, amounting almost to an augury of ill, to hear Uncle Bernard
talking of Margot Blount with such unusual interest.  The first definite wish which he had
expressed was in connection with her name; his last remarks virtually sanctioned with his approval
any aspirations which Victor might secretly treasure.  Lady Margot Blount could hardly be expected
to marry a struggling barrister; but if that barrister were the possible heir of the Court,
his importance became at once largely increased.

Victor was unfailing in his efforts to please his host, and the result of this conversation
would inevitably be a closer intimacy with the Blount family, which, even if it led to nothing
more serious, would of a certainty cloud Ruth's happiness.  Mollie was by no means sure that
she approved of Victor as a suitor for her beloved sister, but, with delightful inconsistency,
she hated the idea of his daring to care for anyone else, and the thought lent an unwonted
edge to her voice--

"It's horrid to talk about marriage in that mercenary fashion, as if it were a pure business
arrangement.  When I hear such remarks, I'm thankful that I haven't a penny piece in the world!"

"If that is your feeling, you would be in a most unfortunate position as the owner of the Court.
It would be a pity to disturb your equanimity, my dear."

Mr Farrell stretched out his thin hands on his knees, looking at her with quizzical eyes, whereupon
Mollie forgot her anger, and gave one of her gay, infectious laughs, nodding her head towards
him in mischievous, new-found familiarity.

"Ah, you had me there!  But I might be like Queen Bess, you know, and prize my kingdom above
any man; or, if one came along whom I really wanted to marry, I'd send him to slay dragons
and carry off golden apples, to prove his devotion and disinterestedness.  Don't cut me off
through any mistaken scruples, Uncle Bernard.  I'd really make a delightful chatelaine, and
I should enjoy it so!  No one appreciates the real object of money more than I do!"

"And what is your idea of the `real value,' if one may ask?"

"To spend, of course!" she answered audaciously.  "It is the only thing to do, for if you keep
it, it's just a dull collection of coins.  I love spending!  Now, if I became a big heiress
to-morrow, would you like to know what I should do?"

"Extremely; it would be most interesting!" said Mr Farrell.

"Yes, Miss Mollie, do tell us!" urged Victor.

Jack looked up with a puckered brow, half amused, half anxious, and Ruth murmured a gentle
"Mollie dear!"  Mollie was not to be deterred by encouragement or warning.  She lay back in
her chair, tapping off each item on her fingers as she spoke, her face one beam of mischievous
enjoyment.

"I'd settle annuities on all my relations and friends.  I'd buy the most exquisite presents,
and send them round to everyone who had been kind to me in my poor estate.  I'd give huge donations
to governess's Homes, and funds for poor gentlewomen, and send them flowers, and fruit, and
game. I'd go to Liberty's, and buy artistic furniture, and hire experts to superintend decorations,
and, while the house was being put in order, I'd go a voyage round the world, and buy stacks
of lovely things at every port, and see all the sights, and come home laden with spoils! Then
I'd settle down, and,"--she chuckled complacently--"I would have a good time!  I'd have every
single thing I wanted, and never think of what it cost!"

"Until the bailiffs arrived; which would be surprisingly soon, I should imagine!" said Uncle
Bernard drily.  "You have not much idea of the responsibility of wealth, my dear.  I prefer
not to discuss the point, however.  My own views, which are peculiar, are set forth in the
Will which is lying in the desk in my room."

The four young people looked up sharply.  The same question was on the lips of each; but it
was Victor's eagerness which first found words--

"The Will?--Now!  But surely--?"

Mr Farrell's lips twisted into a grim smile, as if he had of deliberate purpose provoked their
curiosity.

"You are surprised that I have already come to a conclusion.  It is by no means unchangeable;
but, in the extremely precarious condition of my health, I do not think it safe to delay matters
indefinitely.  This Will was drawn up last week, and is based upon my impressions up to the
present time.  If I live it is extremely likely that I may alter my mind once and again; but
it should be a comfort to you all to feel that, at the worst, I am not unprepared."

He looked from one to the other with the same faint, mocking smile, his gaze lingering on Ruth's
troubled face.  Her eyes expressed a questioning so intense as to be almost wild; then slowly
they fell before his, and a crimson tide rushed over her cheeks.

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

HARD AT WORK.

Preparations for Mrs Thornton's garden-party went on uninterruptedly during the next week,
and grew in fervour as the great day approached. Everybody had accepted, as the hostess announced
with a groan and a laugh; and the vicar threatened to be called abroad on urgent business,
so alarmed was he at the prospect of the fashionable throng which was to invade his shabby
precincts.  When, however, Mrs Thornton made up her mind to carry out a plan, she was not easily
damped; and aided by Mollie and the younger members of her brood, she weeded, and forked, and
clipped at the over-grown garden, until it really began to assume quite a presentable appearance.

"I daren't weed," Mollie explained, "for I'm a poor town thing, who would probably pull up
your most cherished seedlings; but my arms are so strong that I can mow with the best, so I'll
take the grass in hand, if someone else will trim the borders."

"But your face, my dear--your face!" cried Mrs Thornton, staring with dismay at the crimsoned
countenance beneath the straw hat.  "I'm ashamed to let you work so hard!  What would your
uncle say if he saw you now?"

"Something uncomplimentary, no doubt.  I know I am magenta, but fortunately it isn't lasting.
I asked Mr Druce if he would help me this morning, and do a little rolling into the bargain,
but he would not give up his ride."

Mrs Thornton pursed up her lips, stared first at the ground, then at the sky, then across into
Mollie's face.

"He is very fond of riding!" she said mysteriously.  "I see him pass every morning, going in
the same direction, and always alone.  How is it that none of you ever go with him?"

"Jack Melland is still lame, and Ruth and I are only beginners.  We have little canters together
in the afternoons sometimes, but in the mornings he prefers to be free to go longer distances.
He goes ever so far-- miles and miles.  One morning last week he met Lady Margot Blount somewhere
near the Moat."

"And one morning this week also, for my husband saw them together, and if I were inclined to
gossip, I should say it was oftener than once.  My dear Mollie, how charming!  Are we going
to have a love-story to enliven the summer?  Nobody ever gets engaged or married in this sleepy
place, and this would be truly exciting!  But I thought at one time--excuse my saying so, won't
you, dear?--I quite thought he admired your sister, and that there might be a match there!"

"Of course, he admired her--no one could help it; but please never hint at anything of the
sort to Ruth.  She is very reserved, and would hate to be talked about!" cried Mollie hastily.

Across the lawn Ruth's graceful figure could be seen kneeling in front of a bed of flowers
which she was fastening to supporting sticks in her usual neat, methodical fashion.  No one
could have recognised that bed as the same confused broken-down mass of blossom which it had
been an hour earlier.

"There! now they do look as if someone loved them," said Ruth to herself, straightening her
weary back, and brushing the soil off her fingers.

After the Thorntons' more casual work was over, she had made a careful round of the beds, giving
those dainty finishing touches which add so largely to the effect.  Now her work was finished,
and, seeing Mrs Thornton and Mollie standing together, she rose stiffly, and walked across
the lawn to meet them.

"Have you finished?  I think I have really come to the end of the beds, and everything looks
delightfully `cared for'!  I shall bring my camera down on Thursday, Mrs Thornton, and take
some snapshots of your guests in pretty corners of the garden.  Did you know I had taken the
photographic fever?  I bought myself a really, really nice camera, and I want to take mother
a collection of views of the Court when we go home. She will value it more than anything else,
for I shall snap all her favourite bits in the grounds, and take the interiors with time- exposures.
They will be nice to look at when we are away, and someone else reigns in our stead!"

She shrugged her shoulders as she spoke, and Mrs Thornton patted her arm with kindly encouragement.

"Nonsense--nonsense!  You are tired, dear, and that makes you look at things through blue spectacles.
Come into the house, and we will have tea, and discuss the great question of where my guests
are to sit, if anything so dreadful as a shower should happen!  Two armchairs, you see, half
a dozen small ones, more or less unstable (if anyone over seven stone attempts the green plush
there'll be a catastrophe!), and one sofa.  Now, put your inventive brains together, and tell
me what I can do.  There is plenty of room for more furniture, but no money to buy it, alas!"

"Let them sit on the floor in rows; it would be ever so sociable!" said naughty Mollie.

Ruth knitted her brows thoughtfully.

"Have you any chair-beds?  We could make quite elegant lounges of them, pushed up against the
wall, covered with rugs and banked up with cushions; or even out of two boards propped up at
the sides, if the worst came to the worst!"

"Oh-oh!  Chair-beds!  What an inspiration!  I have two stored away in the attic.  They are
old and decrepit, but that doesn't matter a bit. They will look quite luxurious when the mattresses
are covered with sofa-blankets; but I don't know where the cushions are to come from.  I only
possess these three, and they must stay where they are to hide the patches in the chintz. 
I might perhaps borrow--"

"No, don't do anything of the kind.  Use your pillows, and Ruth and I will make frilled covers
out of art-muslin, at threepence a yard.  They will look charming, and lighten up the dark
corners.  We are used to that sort of work at home.  We made a cosy corner for the drawing-room
out of old packing-cases and a Liberty curtain, and it is easier and more comfortable than
any professional one I ever saw.  The silly upholsterers always make the seats too high and
narrow.  We made a music ottoman of the inside, and broke our backs lining it, and our nails
hammering in the tacks; but, dear me, how we did enjoy it, and how proud we were when it was
accomplished for seventeen-and-six!

"I'm beginning to doubt," repeated Mollie solemnly, "whether it is half so amusing to be rich
as it is to be poor.  When you can get everything you want the moment you want it, you don't
appreciate it half so much as when you have pined for it, and saved up your pennies for it,
for months beforehand.  When we get a new thing at home, the whole family pay visits to it
like a shrine, and we open the door and go into the room where it is, one after the other,
to study the effect, and gloat over it.  It is fun; isn't it, now?  Confess that it is!"

"Ye-es," agreed Mrs Thornton doubtfully.  "But where you have to wait too long, the sense of
humour gets a little bit blunted, especially as one grows older, Mollie dear!"

She sighed as she spoke, and her eyes roved pensively round the discoloured walls, those same
walls whose condition had fired Mollie to make her unsuccessful appeal.  The girl's thoughts
went back to that embarrassing interview, not altogether regretfully, since it had ended in
bringing about a better understanding between her uncle and herself. Perhaps, though he had
refused her request, it would linger in his mind, and lead to good results.  Nothing but the
unexpected was certain about Uncle Bernard.

The next afternoon the vicarage drawing-room presented a rather chaotic appearance, as Mrs
Thornton and her assistants prepared the important couches.  Ruth sat in the middle of the
floor running up lengths of brightly coloured muslins on a sewing-machine, while the other
two wrestled with the difficulties which attend all make-shifts.  With the greatest regard
for ease and luxury, the beds were pronounced decidedly too low to look genuine, and the rickety
legs had to be propped up with foundations manufactured out of old bound volumes of magazines,
bricks from the garden, and an odd weight or two from the kitchen scales.  The sofa-blankets
also turned out to be too narrow, and persisted in disclosing the iron legs, until, in desperation,
one end was sewn to the mattress, allowing the full width to hang down in front.

At last the work was finished, and the hot and dishevelled workers retired to the hall, and,
re-entering the room to study the effect, in true Farrell manner, pronounced the "divans" to
look professional beyond all fear of detection.

The next achievement was to place a tapering bank of plants against a discoloured patch of
wallpaper, and many and varied were the struggles before the necessary stand was arranged.
Eventually an old desk formed the bottom tier, a stool the second, and the baby's high chair
the third and last.  Draped with an old piece of green baize, with small pots of trailing Tradescantia
fitted into the crossbars of the chair, and the good old family Aspidistras ("as old as Mabel!"
explained Mrs Thornton, stroking one of the long green leaves affectionately) taking the place
of honour, the effect was so superior and luxurious that the vicar had to be dragged from his
study to exclaim and admire.

"There, just look at our divans!  Did you ever see anything look more luxurious?  Who could
ever suspect they were only a make-up?  Sit down and see how comfortable this is!" cried Mrs
Thornton volubly; whereupon the vicar sat down heavily in the centre of the seat, and promptly
descended to the floor amidst a heaped-up pile of bedding, pillows, Sunday at Homes, and broken
bricks.

He gasped and groped wildly with his hands, and the sight of him sitting prone among the ruins
was so comical that both girls went off into peals of laughter.  The humorous side of the accident
was not, however, quite so apparent to the mistress of the ceremonies.

"That tiresome, tiresome bed!  I might have known as much!  It used to collapse with me regularly
when I was nursing Mabel with scarlet-fever!" she cried impatiently.  "Now we shall have to
begin from the beginning, and make it up again.  How tiresome of you, Arthur, to be so heavy!"

"I will spare you the obvious retort, dear.  Let us be thankful that I was the victim, and
not Lady Elstree, whom you would certainly have escorted to the seat of honour to-morrow. 
If you will allow me to help, I think I could manage to make things fast."

At this critical moment a loud rat-tat sounded at the door, and Mrs Thornton rushed to peep
out of the window.

"Horrors, a visitor!  Mary will show her into the room, I know she will! That girl has no more
sense than a doll!  Ruth--Mollie--Wallace! pick up the things on the floor; throw them behind
the sofa!  Pull the sewing-machine to the wall!  There's no room for anyone to tread!  Of all
the tiresome, aggravating--"

"Nonsense, dear--nonsense!" cried the vicar, laughing.  "Leave things as they are.  You have
quite sufficient excuse in the fact of expecting a hundred people to-morrow.  There will be
no room to tread then, if you like!"

He turned towards the door as he spoke, and Mrs Thornton hastily smoothed her hair as it opened
wide, and Mary's eager voice announced--

"If you please, mum, a 'amper!"

"A what?"

The vicar and his wife pressed forward eagerly, and, lo! on the well- worn oilcloth of the
passage lay a large wicker hamper, addressed to "Mrs Thornton, The Vicarage, Raby," and bearing
on the label the name of a well-known London fruiterer.  To cut the string and tear it open
was the work of a moment, when inside was revealed such treasures of hothouse fruits as left
the beholders dumb and gasping with admiration.

There in profusion were grapes, peaches, giant strawberries of the deepest red, pineapples,--each
one more perfect and tempting than the last, in their dainty, padded cases.

The vicar stood looking on, stroking his chin, and smiling with enjoyment at his wife's delight,
as she bent over her treasures, exclaiming and rapturising like a girl in her teens.

"How lovely!  How charming!  How delightful!  My fruit-table will be a triumph!  This is exactly
what I needed to give the finishing touch to my preparations!  I've never seen finer fruit--never!
Wallace, Wallace, won't we be grand?"

"So grand that I am afraid the churchwardens will have serious doubts as to the school funds,"
said the vicar, laughing.  "I have twenty pounds in hand at the present moment, and really--"

"Oh, don't be a goose!  Of course, everyone will guess that it is a present.  I shall say so
myself on every opportunity.  But who from? Who can have thought of such a thing?"  Her eyes
turned with sudden questioning to the two girls.  "Ruth, Mollie--did you?"

"Indeed, no!  I didn't think of it, I am sorry to say!" said Ruth; and added honestly, "I am
too hard up to pay for all those lovely things!"

"And you know nothing about it, really?"

"Really and truly, not a thing!"

"You don't think that perhaps the squire--"

Mollie recalled the snubbing which she had received on suggesting the improvements to the vicarage,
coupled with the various cynical remarks to which Mr Farrell had given utterance on the subject
of this very garden-party, and felt convinced that he was not the anonymous donor; but these
things were not to be repeated, so she remained silent, while Ruth and Mrs Thornton wondered
and speculated.

No one could be thought of more likely than the squire, for the parishioners, as a rule, were
not overburdened with money, nor the few who were, with generosity.

"I have never had such a thing done for me all the years I have been here--never once!" cried
Mrs Thornton, waxing almost tearful in her excess of gratitude.  "And to send it anonymously,
too--so modest and unassuming!  The dear, kind, thoughtful creature.  I shall never rest until
I know who it is?"

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

THE DAY OF THE PARTY.

The morning of the garden-party was bright, almost perilously bright even for June; but there
was exhilaration in the sight of the blue sky, dappled with fleecy white clouds, which formed
such an exquisite contrast to the velvety green of the landscape, and a delicious sense of
luxury in strolling about in the sun, and feeling rid at last of the treacherous wind.

The squire's guests breakfasted upon the terrace, to the mild disapproval of Mrs Wolff, who
could not understand why people could not be content to remain comfortably indoors, instead
of picknicking in gipsy-like fashion on every possible occasion.  Her small, pinched face expressed
the annoyance which she had not the courage to put into words, and as soon as her duties were
over she hurried back to the shelter of the house.  Immediately she had disappeared Jack boldly
demanded another cup of coffee, and set to work on toast and marmalade with a fresh access
of appetite.

The opportunity was too good to be resisted.  Ruth flew indoors for her camera, and stood a
few yards off focusing the table and its occupants, and waiting for a picturesque moment in
which to snap.  It came at last, just as Jack was forgetfully indulging in an enormous bite,
a bachelor habit which had become a standing joke among his companions.  Mollie had stolen
a half-eaten piece of toast from his plate one morning, and measured the gap with an inch tape,
to his everlasting embarrassment, so that the pictured memorial was hailed with delight.

Needless to say, Jack wished to have his revenge, and immortalise Mollie scraping the sugar
out of the bottom of the cup in school-girl fashion, and finally Bates was pressed into the
service and instructed how to snap, so that a complete group might be taken.

By this time it was ten o'clock, and Mollie announced her intention of going down to the vicarage
to help in the final preparations for the afternoon's entertainment.  She took for granted
that Ruth would accompany her; but Miss Ruth had her own ideas as to the employment of the
next few hours, and they had nothing to do with Mrs Thornton's garden-party.

On her way downstairs to breakfast she had overheard Victor telling a servant that he had no
orders for the stables this morning.  The inference was, therefore, that he intended to stop
at home, and the thought had instantly darted into her mind that if Mollie went off to the
vicarage there would be an hour or two before lunch, when--when--

Ruth blushed guiltily to herself when she got so far in her calculations; but it was such a
delight to enjoy a quiet tete-a-tete talk sometimes, instead of the general impersonal conversation.
So it came to pass that when Mollie announced her intention of going down to the vicarage to
help in the final preparations, Ruth absolutely refused to accompany her.

"I've done my share," she said.  "To-day I am going to be a visitor pure and simple, and drive
down when everything is ready for my reception."

Mollie shrugged her shoulders resignedly.

"Well, somebody has got to do it, and, thank goodness, I'm not poor- spirited enough to leave
a friend in the lurch at the last moment!  I shan't be satisfied until I see the last chair
in order; but I don't see any reason why I should walk.  There is a pony-carriage in the stables,
and if anyone had any nice feeling they would drive me there and back!"

Jack laughed, and limped across the terrace.

"Anyone, singular; they, plural!  Your grammar is deficient, Miss Mollie; but I suppose your
modesty forbade you to be more explicit.  I have lots of good-feeling, and nothing to do, so
I shall be charmed to escort you, if you will give the order.  It would take me too long to
get down to the stables."

It was evident that Jack's offer was pleasing to Mollie, for she thanked him with a smile as
bright as her words, and a quarter of an hour later on they were driving together across the
park behind the sleek little pony, Mollie chatting gaily as usual, Jack listening with an air
half amused, half bored.  Despite his accident, he was looking strong and well, his skin bronzed
by the outdoor life of the last few weeks; but the old haughty, intolerant expression, which
had seemed his chief characteristic at first meeting, was still noticeable in curving lip and
nostril.  Not an easy man to convince against his will, nor one to be easily affected by the
presence of a pretty girl.

"How cross Uncle Bernard was when I told him about the mysterious hamper!  One would think
he grudged poor Mrs Thornton having anything nice!" said Mollie severely.  "He nearly snapped
my head off when I asked if he had sent it.  I should not have thought much of that, if he
had not denied it in so many words, for he might have been trying to put me off; but after
what he said there can be no more doubt on the subject.  I wonder who could have sent it? 
Mrs Thornton says she will never rest till she finds out."

Jack flicked the pony impatiently.

"Why can't she be content to take it quietly, and not worry any more? That's the worst of women--they
must make a fuss!  If the man who sent it wanted to be thanked, he would have put in a card.
If he didn't, it shows that he prefers to be anonymous, and it's bad taste to go ferreting
round trying to find out what she is not intended to know.  I should tell her so straight,
if I were you."

"No, you wouldn't, because, being a woman, you would be consumed with curiosity, as I am. 
Now, I wonder why you said the `man'?" queried Mollie, tilting her head on one side, and staring
at him with mischievous eyes.  "What makes you think it was a man?  Couldn't it as easily have
been a woman?"

"Oh, quite; but I prefer to use one pronoun and stick to it, instead of muddling them up as
you do.  Why are you always in such a hurry to snap a fellow up?" cried Jack irritably.

Mollie made a naughty little moue.

"I thought it was the other way about!  I was most mild and lamb-like, when you snubbed me
for my grammar, abused my sex, and accused me of bad temper.  It shows how little you know
of my beautiful disposition!"

Jack flicked the pony again, his face darkened by a frown.

"No, I don't know you--how should I?  You never give me a chance.  You show me only the frivolous
side of your character.  You are always laughing, joking, frivolling.  In all these weeks I
have only once had a glimpse of your real self.  You evidently do not wish me to know you in
any real or intimate sense; but that is your own fault, not mine."

"If you have seen it only once, it cannot be my real self," said Mollie quietly.  She had grown,
not red but white, as she listened to Jack's words, and her heart had begun to beat in an agitating
fashion hitherto unknown.  She felt as if somebody had suddenly dealt her an unexpected blow,
for until this moment she had fondly imagined herself to be good friends with Jack Melland.
"You do not know me, because, perhaps, there is nothing to know, beyond the frivolous, silly
creature you dislike so much!"

"There you go again, exaggerating and catching up my words!  Who said I disliked you?  We were
not talking of likes or dislikes.  We were talking of knowing each other properly.  I wouldn't
trouble my head if you were an ordinary, empty-headed girl, but I know you are not.  There
is another side to your character, and I want to see and know you in it, but you evade me,
and refuse to show yourself.  I suppose I am not worth the trouble of talking to seriously?"

Mollie shook her head dejectedly.

"I am not evading, I am not hiding anything.  I'm nineteen, and out for a holiday.  It's the
first taste of luxury I've ever known.  I enjoyed it so much,"--unconsciously to herself she
used the past, not the present, tense--"that surely it was natural for me to be light-hearted.
I am not highly educated, and I've lived a very quiet life.  It's only natural that I seem
stupid in comparison with other girls you have met. I suppose they are very clever and well read?"

Jack kept his eyes on the road, mentally classifying the girls with whom he had been most closely
brought in contact in his town life.  Yes! they were for the most part accomplished and clever;
but were they not also apt to be discontented with their lot, given to grumbling at the restrictions
of home life, and to imagine themselves ill-used and unappreciated?  Mollie's radiant good-humour
and unconsciousness of self were qualities unknown among them.  What poor, anaemic images they
appeared beside her!  Yet he was continually provoked by the very cheerfulness which he mentally
approved.  Jack frowned, puzzled and disquieted.  As a rule, he was at no loss to account for
his prejudices, but for once he found himself completely mystified.  What exactly was it that
he wanted of Mollie Farrell, the lack of which rankled in his veins?  He could not tell, and
annoyance with self gave an added touch of irritation to his tone.

"Oh, if you cannot distinguish between becoming a bookworm and talking seriously once in a
way, there is no more to be said!  I'm sorry I spoke.  Now I suppose you will be offended with
me, and the day will be spoiled?"

It was not a gracious speech, but Jack did not feel gracious, and he had not much control over
his temper.  An inner voice informed him that he was behaving like a cad, and he acknowledged
the truth of the indictment, while in the same moment he was prepared to reply more irritably
than before.

He had not the chance, however, for Mollie's eyes met his without the faintest shadow of reproach.
There was a subtle change in her expression, but it spoke neither of offence nor anger.

"No, I am not vexed; that would be stupid, for it would only make things worse.  It is my nature
to look on the bright side of things.  I know I am thoughtless, but it won't last.  I shall
be serious enough some day-- perhaps sooner than we think.  Don't grudge me my little hour!"

The face raised to his looked so young and wistful that Jack felt a pang of the same remorse
which one feels who has wounded a little child.  He averted his eyes and drove on in silence,
thinking, thinking.--The clever town girl would have been mortally insulted if he had dared
to criticise her manners or attainments, and would have justified herself by a dozen plausible
arguments.  Mollie was ready to admit everything against herself, and only anxious to save
him from any feeling of embarrassment.

She talked on impersonal topics all the rest of the way to the vicarage, and her smile when
she bade him good-bye was resolutely cheerful, but he hated himself as he realised that for
the first time there was an effort involved.  As he turned the pony round the corner of the
little lane which bordered the lawn he heard Mrs Thornton's surprised exclamation, "Why, Mollie!"
and the half-laughing exclamation, "It's nothing!  The sun is so strong, it made my eyes--smart!"

Jack Melland set his teeth and drove on in a tumult of feeling such as he had never known before
in the course of his self-satisfied existence. Blundering, presumptuous wretch that he was!
If any trouble came to Mollie Farrell, he would feel as guilty as if he himself had deliberately
brought it to pass!

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE.

CONFIDENCES.

While Mollie was busy at the vicarage, Ruth took her book to her favourite seat, and prepared
to spend a quiet morning; but to her delight, Victor joined her, and took his place by her
side, before she had been seated more than a few minutes.

"He will see Lady Margot this afternoon.  He need not ride ahead in the hope of meeting her,"
came the involuntary bitter thought; but it was impossible to harbour jealousy for more than
a minute when alone in Victor's company.  Every word, every look, every tone, was filled with
a subtle flattery which was not only soothing but inspiring into the bargain, for we are always
at our best in the society of those who appreciate us.

Ruth gazed, with the old delightful sense of well-being, across the beautiful grounds, in which
the long slopes of green and wide-spreading trees had already grown dear and familiar as old
friends.  Surely every day it became more certain that this would be her home of the future,
since Jack was still determined to return to town the moment he was sufficiently recovered
from his accident, and Mollie's extravagance was plainly distasteful to Uncle Bernard.  As
for Victor, if he really-- really meant...  Ruth did not finish the sentence even to herself,
but at the bottom of her mind lurked the inevitable reflection that she stood a double chance.

Evidently Victor's thoughts had, to a certain extent, followed her own, for he broke the silence
by saying suddenly--

"That was an extraordinary statement of Mr Farrell's the other day,-- that he had already made
a will.  I suppose it is a wise precaution under the circumstances, but it gave one rather
a shock to know that things were already settled."

"Yes, poor old man! one hates to realise how ill he must be.  He does not seem to have grown
any worse since we came, so far as an outsider can judge, but he must feel his weakness increasing."

Ruth puckered her brows in a distressed fashion, too much occupied with her own thoughts to
notice Victor's quick glance of inquiry.

His concern had not been for Mr Farrell or his sufferings, but he was quick to change his tone
in response to hers.

"I expect he does," said Victor, "though he is too well-plucked to complain.  The doctor told
me the other day that these fluctuations are part of the disease, and mean no real improvement.
He does not give him long, though he thinks it will probably be six months or more.  It must
be more or less of an effort to him having us here, and if his mind is already made up, I wonder
he does not prefer to go back to his solitude."

"He said he might still change, you remember.  The will is only made in case of accidents.
It does seem strange to think of it lying there all the time, and that one peep at it would
end all our wonderings.  I should like to see it!" cried Ruth with an outspoken honesty which
apparently shocked her companion.

"Be careful what you say, Miss Ruth!  Farrell is just the sort of cross- grained old fellow
to take all sorts of ideas into his head if he heard you.  And, besides, you can surely guess
for yourself what name you would find!"

Ruth lifted her face to his in quick inquiry.  The brown eyes were for once fully open and
looking down at her with an expression half smiling, half melancholy.  "You know it would be
your own!" he said softly, and she flushed in quick denial.

"No, no; it's impossible to be certain.  I hope, of course, but-- At first I thought Uncle
Bernard liked me best, but lately Mollie seems to have cut me out."

"But we are told that liking has nothing to do with the great decision."

"I know, and that does away at once with so many qualities with one fell swoop, that one can
hardly tell what is left.  It puts amiability out of the question, and unselfishness and cheerfulness,
and--and tact, and everything which makes us care for a person or not.  When they are gone,
what is left?"

"A great many things, just as Mr Farrell's knowledge of our characters and actions is far more
extensive than you suspect.  We meet at meals, and in the evening, and for the rest of the
day one would imagine that we are beyond his ken, but I have discovered that to be a mistake.
In some mysterious fashion he knows all that we do, and guesses fairly accurately what we think!
...  Would you imagine, for instance, that he knew that this seat was our favourite resort,
and that we have enjoyed some very pleasant tete-a-tetes here during the last few weeks?  Would
you imagine that he knew who gave me that white rosebud which I wore as a button-hole last night?"

Ruth's face was a rose itself at that moment, a red, red rose, as the colour flew from her
cheeks up to the roots of her hair.  Her eyes wavered, and fell.

"How can he know?  How do you know he knows?" she queried confusedly; and Victor shrugged his
shoulders.

"How, I can't tell you, but I suspect his man James is a useful source of information.  I know
that he knows, because of several caustic remarks which he has let fall from time to time,
to which my legal experience easily gives me the clue.  I have come to the conclusion that
he knows pretty well what we are about every hour of the day!"

"Even when you go out riding by yourself, and meet Lady Margot in the lanes?" questioned Ruth,
stung by a sudden rising of jealousy, which she was unable to control.  The words were no sooner
spoken than regretted, and regret deepened into shame as Victor turned his calmly surprised
eyes upon her.

"Certainly! as I told him myself in the first instance.  Since then I have been fortunate enough
to meet her again once or twice.  The good vicar saw us together on one occasion; I presume
he hurried home forthwith to spread the news over the parish.  In these dead-alive places the
most casual acquaintance is magnified into a scandal, but fortunately Lady Margot is a woman
of the world who is unaffected by silly chatter.  She has a dull time at the Moat, and is glad
to meet a fellow-creature with whom she can have a few minutes' conversation. Personally, I
don't care what the whole parish pleases to say.  There is only one person whose opinion matters.
...  Ruth! what are you trying to imply?"  He moved nearer to her as he spoke, until the arm
which rested on the back of the seat almost touched her shoulder.  "Lady Margot is pleased
to be friendly and gracious, but she does not belong to my world.  She is a star far above
the head of a poor struggling barrister, even if he were fool enough to aspire to her, which
he certainly would not do so long as there are inhabitants of his own sphere a hundred times
more beautiful and more attractive."

Ruth shook her head, her eyes fixed shyly on the ground.

"If the barrister were the heir to the Court, it would make all the difference in the world.
Uncle Bernard spoke very warmly of the Blount family.  It might increase your chance," she
urged, compelled by some impulse which she could not understand to argue against her own wishes.
"Perhaps the condition has something to do with ambition, and pride of race."

"In that case, again you score the advantage, for you are his direct descendant.  I think myself,
however, that it refers entirely to money. He has warned us that he has peculiar ideas on the
subject.  Probably he is on the look-out for a similar peculiarity.  He has consulted me, and
Melland also, I believe, on several matters in connection with the estate; but my ideas are
purely businesslike, and Melland is hopelessly happy-go-lucky, so there was nothing original
in either his advice or mine.  No! from whichever point of view I consider the question, I
always come to the same conclusion.  You are the nearest heir; you are a Farrell in name as
well as appearance.  You are not extravagant nor thoughtless like your sister.  To Melland,
as well as to myself, the result is a foregone conclusion.  I would congratulate you on the
spot if I could do so honestly.--I wonder if you will in the least understand what I mean,
when I say that I wish it had been any one of the four rather than yourself?"

The face that was raised to his was for a moment simply shocked and surprised, but under his
steady gaze comprehension dawned, and Ruth turned hastily aside, saying, in a tremulous voice
which vainly struggled to be defiant--

"I shall remind you of that unkind speech when you are living in state, and I am toiling for
my daily bread.  I could not have believed you would be so unkind."

"I am not afraid, for that day will never dawn.  Remember it, rather, when you are reigning
here, and a poor fellow stifling up in town refuses the invitations because he longs to accept,
and dare not, remembering the difference between us!"

It was pretty plain speaking, and Ruth did not pretend to misunderstand its meaning.  At that
moment all doubts died away.  She believed herself to be loved, and as her lover considered
himself in an inferior position to her own, she was generous enough to show him her own feelings
in return.  The dark lashes rested upon her cheeks, her lips quivered like a child's, as she
said softly--

"If I did own the Court, if Uncle Bernard left me everything he possessed, it would be worthless
to me if--if I were separated from the friends I cared for most."

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

A SHATTERED IDEAL.

By four o'clock that afternoon the vicarage grounds presented a festive appearance, as the
hundred guests strolled to and fro, arrayed in light, summer-like garments.  The tennis-lawn
was occupied by a succession of players, a ping-pong table stood in a quiet corner and attracted
a certain number of devotees, and the grass-plot in front of the study window had been marked
out for golf croquet.  For those less actively disposed there were seats in the prettiest corners,
and an endless supply of refreshments served on little tables under the trees.

Ruth was looking lovely and radiant, blissfully conscious of Victor's presence, even if he
were at the further end of the garden; of a dress and hat which suited her to perfection, and
of her own importance in the eyes of the assembly--Miss Farrell, the squire's nearest living
relation, his image in appearance, and reputed to be his favourite. Surely this must be the
future mistress of the Court!  The intoxicating whisper followed her wherever she went, and
heightened the flush in her cheek.

"Berengaria!" cried a laughing voice; and she turned to see Lady Margot Blount standing by
her side, holding out a slim, gloved hand.  While most of the girls present were arrayed in
chiffons and laces, she wore a perfectly simple lawn dress, with a coarse straw hat shading
her face; but the accessories of shoes, gloves, belt, parasol, and dainty jewelled fastenings
were all of an immaculate perfection, and with her tall, graceful carriage she was by far the
most striking figure present.

The two girls had met several times at different houses in the neighbourhood since the formal
exchange of calls, and it was not Margot's fault that the friendship had not progressed still
further. She was always cordial, almost demonstrative in manner, eager to plan fresh meetings
and mutual occupations.  It was Ruth who persistently put obstacles in the way.  In spite of
Victor's protestations, she instinctively recognised in Lady Margot a formidable rival, and
the knowledge gave her courage to disregard her uncle's expressed wishes, and neither give
nor accept informal invitations.

To-day, however, in the flush of her success she was full of good-will to the whole world,
and the former jealousy was replaced by commiseration.  Poor Lady Margot, poor everybody whom
Victor did not love as he loved herself!

"Oh, Lady Margot, I am so glad to see you," she cried frankly.  "Do come for a stroll with
me!  I am so tired of being asked how I like Raby, and talking commonplaces to curious strangers.
Doesn't it all look bright and pretty?  If only it will keep fine to the end."

"Oh, we may have a shower, but I don't think it will be anything more serious Yes; Mrs Thornton
has done wonders.  Shall we take this path? It is the narrowest and quietest, so there is the
less fear of interruption."

Ruth turned in the direction indicated with a somewhat doubtful look.  A narrow path, bordered
on one side by prickly gooseberry-bushes, was hardly the promenade for her perishable fineries;
but while she hesitated Margot led the way forward, and she followed, drawing her skirts tightly
together.  Even so, disaster awaited her, for in the interest of an animated discussion some
of the filmy folds slipped from the hand which held the parasol, dragged along the ground,
and finally caught with a rip and a jerk, leaving a long jagged tear at the hem.

Of the two exclamations, Margot's was far the most distressed.

"Oh, my poor Berengaria!  How thoughtless of me to bring you here!  It's all my fault.  I am
such a plain-hemmed creature myself that I forgot your frills.  You must fasten it up at once
or you may trip.  I can give you some pins, and there is a little summer-house at the end of
the path, where you can sit down and fasten it properly.  I'll stand before the door and screen
you from the public gaze."

"Oh, thanks, it will be all right; I am thankful it was not further up. The hem can always
be shortened," said Ruth practically.  She sat down in a corner of the summer-house, the windows
of which were screened by thickly growing tendrils of hop, and, spreading out the tear, began
to pin it daintily together, while Lady Margot mounted guard outside.

A minute passed--two minutes--then came the sound of a man's quick tread, and a voice spoke,
a voice broken by a quiver of emotion which could tell only one tale.

"Lady Margot!  You here?  I have been looking for you all afternoon. Why did you hide yourself
in this out-of-the-way place?  You knew I should be waiting."

The pin fell from Ruth's hand, she sat motionless as a statue behind the leafy screen.  It
could not, could not be Victor's voice!

"I have not been here many minutes," Lady Margot replied quietly.  "I knew we should meet sooner
or later; but you are a public character to- day, and I must not monopolise your attention."

"Monopolise!" cried the voice again, the familiar voice with the strange, unfamiliar thrill.
Ruth's head dropped forward and her hands clasped the seat on either side.  "You talk of monopolising,
while I starve all week with just a chance five minutes now and then to keep me alive!  I rode
for about three hours yesterday morning without even a glimpse of you in the distance.  I have
been counting the hours until this afternoon."

"Count them just a little bit longer, then; I have not spoken to half my friends, and we would
certainly be interrupted.  Do me a favour and go back to the lawn now, and later on--say in
half an hour--come to me again, and you shall have your reward."

"I'd wait a hundred years if I could have what I wanted at the end!" said the voice passionately.

Footsteps crunched down the path, then came silence, and the falling of a shadow across the
doorway.  Ruth lifted an ashen face, and saw Lady Margot looking down upon her with tender,
liquid eyes.

"Dear," she said gently, "you heard!  I meant you to hear.  Don't think me cruel; it was the
truest kindness.  You and I have something to say to each other.  I know a quiet nook where
we can be alone.  Come, Ruth--come with me!"

Ruth rose mechanically and followed her guide through a door in the wall, which led to a square
piece of ground, bare and ugly,--a cabbage- patch in name and in deed.  There against the unromantic
background the two girls stood looking at each other, face to face with the great question
of their lives.

"Ruth," said Margot gently, "let us be honest with each other.  It is the only way.  This man--Victor
Druce--has come into both our lives; let us find out where we stand!  Shall I tell you my story
first?  I met him last summer, when we were thrown constantly together for six weeks, and he
attracted me.  I came nearer loving him than any man whom I had met. Why, I don't know.  I
saw he admired me; but others had done that, and when I was alone and could think about him
quietly there were many things about him I did not like.  Still, he fascinated me.  I thought
of him a great deal during the winter.  I looked forward to seeing him again.  He was not of
my world, and it seemed impossible that anything serious could come of it; but I dreamt dreams...
Then I came here, and found, to my amazement, that he was staying at the Court.  He met me
one morning going out for my ride, and since then it has often happened. From the first his
manner was different; more assured.  He told me of Mr Farrell's proposition, and insisted that
the chances were in his favour.  He wished me to look upon him as the future owner of the Court;
a man who would be in my own position.  He has been making love to me all these weeks, Ruth,
but he has not definitely asked me to marry him. That's my story!  Will you tell me yours in
exchange?"

Ruth looked drearily round the bare, ugly patch.  A moment before she had been living mentally
and physically in a land of roses; now, in an instant, the scene had changed and the beauty
had disappeared.

"I think," she said slowly, "that he has been making love to me too... He has insisted from
the first that I am Uncle Bernard's favourite, the others think so too, and he has made me
believe--only this morning he made me believe--that he was afraid to speak plainly because
of the difference in our position.  He said I should be a great lady, and he would be working
for his bread far away, and thinking of me."  Ruth's voice broke pitifully, but the red flamed
in Margot's cheek, and she reared her proud head with a disdainful gesture.

"So!  It is as I thought; he has been playing a waiting game, making love to us both, but keeping
himself free until he saw how the land lay. If he inherited, Lady Margot Blount would be useful
in society; if he were cut off, he would reserve the chance of marrying the heiress.  And we
have both been deceived, and have imagined that he was in earnest!  I have seen him on the
stage, and congratulated him on his success, but I was not prepared for such finished acting
in real life."

"No!" said Ruth drearily, "you have not been deceived; he was not acting with you.  I heard
him speak just now, and I felt the difference.  Oh, Margot, he is playing with me, but he is
in earnest with you; he does really love you!"

Margot's lip curled scornfully.

"It is hardly my idea of love.  If I am ever married, it shall be to a man who will risk something
for my sake, not to a mercenary who thinks first of himself.  I suspected something of this
from the first afternoon I called at the Court.  You were sitting together on the terrace,
and something in his attitude...  Oh, well, why dwell on it any more?--it is none too pleasant.
Ruth dear, you have avoided me, and I have seemed to force myself upon you, but I was determined
to find out the truth, for both our sakes.  It is better so, is it not?"

Ruth's dull glance of misery was pathetic to behold.

"I suppose it is," she said slowly, "but just now I cannot feel glad. Everything seems over.
I was so happy, and it will be so difficult to go on living in the same house, meeting at every
hour of the day.  It is easier for you, for you need not see him unless you wish, and you do
not care as I did."

"Don't I?" queried Margot gently.  "He has been first in my thoughts for nearly a year, Ruth,
and you have known him for a few weeks.  It is not easy for me, either; but we must both realise
that the Victor Druce of our imagination never existed, but was a creation of our own brains.
This man--this adventurer--who has used us as his tool, must never suspect that he has caused
us pain; we must play our parts without flinching, and let him see more and more clearly that
we desire nothing from him.  It will be difficult, but there is nothing else for it, if we
are to keep our dignity.  Ruth, you have plenty of will-power;--one can see it in your face;
you will not let this man deceive you again with his plausible words?"

Ruth shook her head.  The grey eyes shone hard and bright, then suddenly brimmed with tears.

"Perhaps, after all, he is not worse than I am myself.  Perhaps I deserve this lesson.  Another
man asked me to marry him before we left home.  I did not love him, but he was well-off and
had a nice house, and for a few minutes I was tempted.  I told him so, and he said he did not
want me if I could not care for himself alone...  Perhaps if he had begged very hard I might
have said `yes.'"

Margot smiled--a very kindly smile.

"The cases are not precisely similar, are they?  Instead of playing a double game you were
absolutely honest; much more honest than is usual on such occasions.  And he was a wise man.
I think I should have liked that man!  Compare him with Victor Druce sometimes, Ruth; it may
help you to be brave...  Now I am going back to the garden to act my part. We will meet and
talk again, but we can't stay away any longer just now without attracting attention...  Just
tell me one thing before I go--Can you forgive me for shattering your dream?"  She held out
her hand, and Ruth took it in both hers.

"I have nothing to forgive.  It is only wakening a little sooner; that's all!" she said tremulously.

Margot bent down lightly, and touched her forehead with her lips, then turned swiftly away,
and Ruth was left alone.  Poor, disenchanted Ruth, wideawake at last, in the midst of the deserted
cabbage-patch!

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

JACK MELLAND'S SECRET.

When Mr Farrell's guests assembled for dinner, on their return from the garden-party, it was
at once evident that the old gentleman was in one of his difficult moods.  From the beginning
he had affected to disapprove of Mrs Thornton's extravagance in attempting to entertain on
so large a scale, while sedulously keeping himself informed as to every detail of the preparations.
The anonymous present of fruit had furnished him with a subject for much satirical comment,
as had also the girls' endeavours to beautify the house and grounds.

Now he found a fresh grievance in the fact that dinner was delayed a few minutes past its usual
hour, and that the young people appeared depressed, rather than elated by their experiences.
Ruth's plea of a headache was justified by her wan looks; Jack was moody, and even Victor was
for once silent and distrait.  It was left to Mollie to stem the tide, and she raised herself
nobly to the effort, albeit her own heart was none too light.

"It went off beautifully, Uncle Bernard!  Shall I tell you all about it from the beginning?"
she cried, smiling at his grim visage across the dinner-table; and when he declared his lack
of interest in the whole concern, she smiled again, and refused to be convinced.  "Oh, but
you must hear, because in a kind of way it was your party, as you are the patron, and give
them all that they have...  There were such crowds of people, and they looked so gay.  Old
Lady Everett wore a magenta satin, quite the most awful garment I ever beheld, and she got
hot, poor dear, and it matched her face.  And such an awkward thing happened; she brought a
little basket with a few under-sized grapes, about a pound, perhaps, and presented them to
Mrs Thornton with such an air of munificence, and then turned round and saw the table spread
with all that exquisite fruit!  She was quite angry even when Mrs Thornton explained that it
also was a gift."

"Why need she have explained at all?  No other woman would have thought of doing so.  Why should
a clergyman's wife be expected to explain her private affairs to any inquisitive stranger?
Surely it is her own business what she puts on her own table?"  This from Jack, in a burst
of querulous impatience which brought his host's eyes upon him with an answering flash.

"If a woman in a public position provides what is obviously unsuited to her means, the least
she can do is to offer an explanation.  A clergyman's means do not run to expensive entertainments."

"Exactly; yet he is expected to entertain, and to humble his pride to do it in an inferior
style to his neighbours.  And his wife is expected to accept paltry gifts from her neighbours
which another woman in her position would look upon as an insult, and to be thankful for the
chance.  I suppose she often is thankful, poor creature, as she has not the means of providing
properly for herself."

Mr Farrell put down his knife and fork, and, leaning back in his seat, stared fixedly in Jack's
face.  His thin lips worked, and his eyes gleamed ominously.

"May I ask if you are speaking in general terms, or individually of the clergyman's wife in
my own parish?"

Jack shrugged his shoulders.

"Oh, I suppose she would be included, since her husband's income is insufficient for her needs."

"You are aware, of course, that I am responsible for that income?"

"I suppose so--in a way, since the living is in your gift."

"And what grounds may you have for considering it insufficient?"

Jack burst into a short laugh, undeterred by the appealing glances cast upon him by three frightened
feminine listeners.

"What grounds?  Why, the house is an advertisement of shabbiness; the vicar's coat is green
with age, and the poor little kiddies look as if they had come out of the ark!  Mrs Thornton
has pluck enough for a dozen, or she would never keep things going as she does; but she looks
an old woman before her time."

"Then it is your deliberate conclusion that I ought to increase the Vicar's stipend?"

Under cover of the tablecloth a little hand stole along and laid a gentle pressure on Jack's
arm.  He turned and met Mollie's eyes, grave and appealing, with no trace of the frivolity
of which he had complained earlier in the day, and, at the sight, his irritation died a sudden
death.  Mollie must indeed have forgiven him when she condescended to so sweet an intimacy.
The rush of joy which accompanied the thought put him at once at peace with all men.

"The labourer is worthy of his hire, sir," he answered quietly.  "I call Thornton a rattling
good fellow, and I should like to see him relieved of monetary troubles.  It's hard lines to
expect a man to be an example of all the virtues when he is constantly wondering how to make
both ends meet.  I don't set much store on money, as you know, but I should enjoy being in
the position to do a good turn to a man like that."

Mr Farrell's sunken eyes gave forth a malicious gleam.

"You speak with feeling.  Perhaps you have been enjoying a foretaste of the experience.  Surely
you must be the generous Unknown who contributed the hamper of fruit of which we have heard
so much during the last few days!"

There was a simultaneous gasp of surprise round the table, and everyone turned to stare with
curious eyes at Jack's scarlet face.  Scarlet, with an embarrassment which plainly proved the
truth of the accusation; with anger, too, and thwarted self-will.  His nostrils inflated in
the old haughty manner, as he replied coldly--

"I thought we were discussing Mr Thornton's income!  I fail to see what the hamper has to do
with the case."

Mr Farrell gave the short, staccato sound which did service for a laugh.

"Your pardon!  It is to me a very interesting sidelight.  I am indebted to you for stepping
in to make up for my deficiencies."

"It was very kind of you, Mr Melland--very, very kind!  You don't know how much pleasure it
gave.  I envy you for having had such a nice thought," said Ruth earnestly.  For a wonder Mollie
was silent, while Victor shrugged his shoulders, and cried, between a sneer and a laugh--

"You are a sly dog, Melland.  I had no idea that you were such a devoted admirer of the redoubtable
Mrs Thornton."

The sneer brought Jack to his bearings in a moment.  Every trace of embarrassment disappeared
as he faced Victor across the table, wide-eyed and defiant.

"It is the truth, none the less.  I admire Mrs Thornton immensely.  She is a capital little
woman, and fights the odds like a Spartan.  This garden-party business was a great event in
her life, and she prepared for it by a series of make-shifts.  I got sick of hearing about
them. Poor little soul, why shouldn't she be able to do the thing decently once in a while?
She's been very kind to us; it was little enough to do in return."

"Oh, well, everything is comparative.  You must be pretty flush to send about hampers of that
description.  I have never tasted finer fruit.  I am sorry that such generosity is beyond my
means," said Victor, whereat Jack scowled all the more.

"You would have spent as much on your lunches and teas if you had been in town these last weeks.
What is the use of money if you can't be reckless once in a way?  I am sorry that this subject
has come up; but, as it has, I must ask you all to be good enough not to speak of it to Mrs
Thornton.  She would gush, and I loathe gush.  The secret is my own, not yours, so you must
please respect my wishes."

Once more Ruth came to the rescue.

"Of course, we will keep your secret.  We have no right to tell without your consent," she
said decisively.

Her grey eyes smiled at him across the table with a wistful sweetness. This man, at least,
was true and honest.  Quick-tempered he might be, self-willed and impatient, but one could
never imagine Jack Melland playing a double part, nor selling his soul for greed.  And yet--and
yet, one glance from Victor's eyes had power to affect her as Jack Melland's most earnest effort
could never do; and Uncle Bernard, sharp- sighted as he was, treated Jack with far less confidence
and favour.

"But I was never sure of him all the time, except for those few hours yesterday," she thought.
"I felt there was something behind.  When Dr Maclure spoke to me that afternoon I knew that
he meant all, and more than all, that he said; but it is not easy to make the imitation like
the real thing.  The moment I heard him speak to Margot I knew the difference--oh, such a difference!
I shall never be deceived again."

She sat trifling with her fruit, unheeding the conversation around her, yet dimly conscious
that a passage-at-arms was still being carried on between Mr Farrell and Jack; the former indulging
in caustic remarks at the young man's expense, Jack replying with more or less irritation.

A sudden gleam of excitement on Victor's face recalled her wandering thoughts, in time to hear
Jack reply quickly--

"You are quite right, I am an invalid no longer.  I walked about most of the afternoon and
feel none the worse.  I can manage even the stairs with a little help.  In another few days
I shall be ready for work. There will then be no need for me any longer to trespass--"

Suddenly he stopped; and though Mr Farrell sat waiting in silence for several moments, he did
not attempt to finish the sentence; for another gentle pressure on the elbow had reminded him
of the wisdom of self- control.  He sat with downcast eyes and firmly shut lips until Mr Farrell's
mocking voice broke the silence.

"Since Mr Melland has nothing more to say, it would perhaps be as well if we made a move. 
I will ask you to excuse me for the rest of the evening, as I am feeling fatigued."

He rose as he spoke and turned towards the door, but even as he did so he staggered, and uttered
an exclamation of pain.  Mrs Wolff echoed the cry and sank back in her chair helpless and unnerved;
but in an instant Victor was at his side, supporting him with a strong, steady arm.

"Send for James," he said, addressing the butler in the quiet tones of one who knows how to
keep his head in an emergency.  "Let me help you into the hall, sir; you will have more air
there.  Lean upon me!"

They moved slowly forward together, the bowed figure seeming momentarily to shrink in stature,
while the glimpse of cheek, as he turned towards the door, was so ashen in colour that the
girls clasped each other's hands in dismay.  Then James appeared, alert, composed, capable,
a carrying-chair was brought forward from some secret hiding-place, and the invalid was borne
upstairs to his room.

"It's one of his `turns,' miss," the butler explained to Ruth.  "He used to have them constantly,
but it's the first since you came.  We'll send down for the doctor, and he'll probably stay
all night.  You can never tell how things may go!"

Jack Melland limped off towards the deserted smoking-room.  Five minutes before, as he sat
resolutely silent, he had determined to go to Mr Farrell as he sat in the library that evening,
and, in the quiet of a tete-a-tete, announce his determination to leave the Court before the
week was out; but now, once again, circumstances conspired against him. There was a greater
question at stake than his own miserable comings or goings, for the shadow of death hovered
over the Court, and none could tell what the morning might bring forth.

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT.

MRS. WOLFF.

The next morning Mr Farrell was reported better, though unable to leave his bed.  His old friend,
the doctor, had stayed with him for the greater part of the night, and had now taken his departure,
pronouncing all immediate danger to be over.  A few days' rest would no doubt make the patient
much as he had been before, to outward seeming, though to the professional eye, a little weaker,
a little nearer the end.

At breakfast Mrs Wolff fussed in a feeble, self-injured manner because she was not admitted
to the sick-room.

"It is so dreadful for him to be left without a woman!  I can't think how he will be nursed
without a woman!" she repeated monotonously, while her hearers breathed an earnest wish that,
when their turn came to be nursed, it might not be by a woman of her calibre.  Mr Farrell was
a hundred times better off with his quiet, capable James.

A shadow of depression rested upon all the young people, though Ruth could not help feeling
thankful for a reasonable excuse for a sadness which had nothing to do with Uncle Bernard or
his health.  Now, no one would wonder if she were sad or silent, and she would escape the questioning
she had so much dreaded.  Immediately breakfast was over she announced her intention of devoting
the morning to photography, and disappeared indoors, while Victor took his accustomed path
to the stables.

Mollie would have followed her sister, but Jack detained her with an appeal which could not
be denied.

"Stay and talk to me a little while; do! or I shall think you are offended by my stupidity
yesterday.  I have to thank you for your reminder last night.  If you had not stopped me I
should have spoken even more strongly than I did, and have been filled with remorse.  As it
is, I don't think anything I said could have been responsible for this attack.  Considering
all things I kept pretty cool, didn't I now?"

"I think you did," conceded Mollie, smiling.  "No; I expect it has been coming on for some
days, and that was why he was so cross.  You generally find people are ill if they are more
than usually snappy. Poor Uncle Bernard!  I wish one could help; but I am glad he has not Mrs
Wolff to fidget him.  Do you know," said Mollie, fixing her candid eyes upon Jack's face, and
inwardly rejoicing at having hit on an impersonal topic of conversation,--"do you know Mrs
Wolff is an unending problem to one!  I think about her for hours at a time, and try to puzzle
her out, but I never get one step further."

"Really!"  Jack searched in his pockets for materials, and began rolling up one of the everlasting
cigarettes.  "I'm surprised to hear that.  I should not have thought she could have occupied
more than two minutes. For my own part I find it impossible to think of her at all.  She was
born; she exists; she will probably die!  Having said so much, you have exhausted the subject."

"Not at all," contradicted Mollie frankly.  "There's lots more to consider.  What is she really,
and what is the real life that she lives inside that funny little shell?  And was she ever
a child who laughed and danced, and raced about, and was good and naughty, and played with
toys, and lived among giants and fairies?  We lived fairy tales, Ruth and I, and had giants
to tea in a nursery four yards square.  And we hunted ferocious lions and tigers, who either
turned out kind and harmless, or were slain by imaginary swords.  Did Mrs Wolff always know
exactly that two and two make four, and never by any chance made a delicious pretence that
it was five?  And when she went to school had she a chum whom she adored, and wrote letters
to every other day filled with `dears' and `darlings,' and did she ever shirk `prep,' or play
tricks on the teachers, or sit up to a dormitory supper?"

"Certainly not!  She was a good little girl who never soiled her pinafore, nor dreamt of anything
she could not see, and she worked hard at school and remained persistently in the middle of
the class, and gained high marks for neatness and decorum.  She never had a chum because she
is incapable of caring for one person more than another."

"But what about `poor Mr Wolff'?  Surely she must have had, at least, a preference for him!
That's another problem--how did anyone come to fall in love with her, and what did he fall
in love with, and why, and when, and where?  I long to know all about it, for it seems so incomprehensible."

Jack laughed with masculine amusement at her curiosity.

"Not incomprehensible at all.  I can give a very good guess how it happened.  She was a timid,
shrinking, little thing, rather pretty--her features are not at all bad--and `poor Mr Wolff'
was a big burly fellow who took a fancy to her because she was a contrast to himself.  She
didn't say much, so he credited her with thinking the more.  She agreed with everything he
said, so he considered her the cleverest woman he knew.  He discovered his error, no doubt,
in sackcloth and ashes, poor fellow; but mercifully he had not to endure many years of disenchantment.
I can't imagine a worse fate than being tied for life to an automaton!"

"Humph!"  Mollie pondered, pinching her soft chin between thumb and finger.  "He might not
be so particular as you...  Did you ever...  Have you ever,--I mean, did you ever meet..."

Jack blew a cloud of smoke from between his lips with a half-embarrassed smile.

"Did I ever meet a girl whom I imagined might be my Mrs Wolff!  Is that what you want to ask?
Yes--once!--for a passing moment.  We met, and I caught a glimpse of her face, and recognised
it as the fulfilment of a dream.  Then she disappeared.  Romantic, isn't it, and disappointing
into the bargain?  I am not a sentimental fellow, I suppose, for I have never even imagined
myself in love, though I have known scores of charming girls; but at that moment I realised
possibilities!"

"But, oh, how disappointing!  Did she really disappear?  Couldn't you find her?  Is there no
chance that you may meet again?"

"Sometimes I think there is; at other times it seems impossible.  In any case, I am powerless
to help, or to hinder."

"I should not say that if I were a man!  I would search the world over till I found her!" 
Mollie sat silently, with bent head and thoughtful air, then suddenly lifted her eyes to his
with a sweet, grave glance. "I hope you will meet!  I hope you will be very happy together
some day,--you, and your Lady of Dreams!"

Jack looked at her, and his face changed strangely.  He said nothing, not even a word of thanks
for her good wishes, and presently got up from his seat, and limped into the house, leaving
Mollie depressed and self- reproachful.

"I suppose I should not have said it.  He thinks it `gush,' and won't condescend to answer.
I wonder what she was like?  Dark, I suppose, and stately, and serious; the very opposite from
me.  She will appear again some day, and they will be married and look so handsome together.
I'm awfully, awfully glad; at least, I should be if Uncle Bernard were not ill.  That makes
one feel so dull and wretched that one can't be glad about anything," said poor Mollie to herself.

Jack did not appear again; and she was not in the mood to take any interest in Ruth's photographic
efforts, so she strolled through the grounds and gathered an armful of flowers to send home
to the little mother.  This was always a pleasant undertaking, and just now there was a special
reason for choosing the freshest and most fragrant blossoms, for the last few letters had hinted
at a recurrence of the old money troubles.

"Something is up!" wrote Trix, in school-girl parlance.  "Father and mother are talking in
his den all the evening, and she comes down to breakfast with her eyes swollen with crying,
and he looks like a sheet, and doesn't eat a bite.  Horrid old business again, of course. 
How I hate it!  We shall have to scrape a little more, I suppose; and where we are to scrape
from, I'm blest if I know!  My blue serge is green, and the boys' Etons shine like the rising
sun.  It was a fine day on Sunday, and they fairly glittered going to church.  I don't want
to give you the blues, but thought I'd better tell you, so that you could write to cheer them
up, and also be more assiduous in your attentions to the old man. You must and shall get that
fortune between you, or we shall be bivouacking in the workhouse before you can say Jack Robinson!
My heart too truly knows the signs full well!"

Mollie recalled these expressive sentences, and sighed in sympathy.

"Poor old Trix! too bad that she should be left at home to bear the brunt, while we are living
in the lap of luxury.  I expect it is just one of the old crises, and we shall worry through
as usual, but it is depressing while it lasts.  I can't endure to see mother with red eyes.
She will smile when she sees these roses, bless her!  I defy anyone not to enjoy opening a
box of flowers; and when we go home we will cheer them up again,--fortune or no fortune.  Dear
old Trix shall have some of my fineries made down, as a change from the green serge."

Mollie's spirits lightened perceptibly as she loitered about the garden, for to a town-bred
girl it was luxury indeed, not only to look upon a wealth of roses, but to be able to gather
them lavishly as she pleased. When the basket was full of half-opened beauties, ranging in
every shade, from white to the bloomy crimson of "Prince Camille," she turned to more shady
corners for the sprays of ferns and foliage, which are even more prized than flowers themselves
by the unhappy dwellers in cities, then returned to the house to find a box and pack it for
the post.  The terrace was empty, but Mrs Wolff was sitting knitting just inside the drawing-room
window.

"Your uncle is better," she announced, as Mollie approached.  "He has had a quiet sleep since
breakfast, and James thinks he will be able to sit up for an hour or two to-morrow.  I haven't
seen anything of Ruth or Mr Melland.  Mr Druce came back from the stables to say that he was
not going to ride to-day, but take a long walk, and he would be sure to be home in time for
lunch.  He is always so kind and considerate!"

The poor little woman looked wan and dispirited, and Mollie reflected with a pang of remorse
that she herself had shown little consideration for her feelings.  Even a nonentity, it appeared,
could feel dull when left by herself in a big, empty house, and also could appreciate a little
act of thoughtfulness.  Victor disappeared so regularly for the morning hours, that it seemed
strange that he should have especially explained his intentions this morning of all others;
but perhaps he had done so, just because to-day was distinguished by a special load of anxiety
which he was anxious not to increase.  Mrs Wolff lived in a constant state of fidget, and even
so little a thing as the uncertainty whether the household would assemble punctually to partake
of the luncheon which she had ordered, might easily add to her distress.

"He is awfully considerate at times; much more than the rest of us," Mollie admitted to herself.
"He never forgets the least little thing that Uncle Bernard says or does, or likes or dislikes,
while I--silly, blundering thing!--always try to help him out of his chair at the wrong side,
or stumble over his sticks."

She stood looking down at Mrs Wolff with a new impulse of sympathy. Hitherto, they had seemed
divided by an impassable gulf, but this morning the girl's usual radiant sense of well-being
had died away, and left a little rankling ache in its place.  "Uncle Bernard's illness, and
this new bother at home," was Mollie's explanation even to her own heart, but the result thereof
was to fill her with pity for the life of a woman whom nobody loved, and who was homeless in
a land of homes.

She sat down beside Mrs Wolff, determined to make the hour before luncheon pass more cheerfully
than its predecessor, and a few judicious questions soon set the good lady's tongue prattling
over past and future.  She said that as a girl she had always had a partiality for blue merino,
and had owned a Dunstable bonnet, trimmed with roses, which was said to be particularly becoming.
It was a pity that roses faded so in the sun; ribbons were more economical wear.  Did Mrs Connor
buy her fish wholesale from Whitby, or retail from a fishmonger?  They did say there was a
great saving in the former way, only you got tired of cod, if it were a very big fish...

The worst of a large house was having to keep so many servants!  A friend of hers, who was
"reduced," said she had never known what comfort meant till she came down to two.  That James
really took too much upon himself!  Talking of black-currant jelly--how beautiful the peaches
were on the south wall!  Her cousin's little boy--Eddie, not Tom--fell over a garden barrow
the other day, and it might have been most serious, for the shears were only a few yards away.
Children were more trouble than pleasure.  Poor Mr Wolff always regretted having none, and
she used to remind him of the school bills, and the breakages, and the dirt in the house...

Had Mollie ever knitted comforters for deep-sea fishermen?  They said their ears did get so
cold.  There was nothing like an onion boiled really soft, and made into a poultice for ear-ache.
Her cousin's little boy--Tom, not Eddie--had it very badly.  Dear, dear, to hear his shrieks!
They found onion much better than camphorated oil.  When Mr Farrell died, she supposed whoever
came into possession would re-cover the drawing-room furniture.  It needed it, and you got
lovely patterns from London...

On and on the stream flowed, until Mollie felt dazed and bewildered. Mrs Wolff evidently felt
it such a treat to have a listener that she was capable of continuing for hours at a time,
and it was only the sounding of the gong for lunch which brought an end to the monologue.

In its passing it had seemed a quiet, uneventful morning; no one guessed what importance its
coming and going would assume in the near future.

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE.

AN UNPLEASANT INTERVIEW.

Mr Farrell kept to his determination to see none of his visitors until he was able to come
downstairs, but he sent a message by James, to the effect that he would be annoyed if his indisposition
were allowed to interfere in any way with social engagements.  Therefore, dinner-parties being
the order of the day, the four young people feasted abroad every evening, and spent the afternoons
at various tennis and croquet parties instituted in their honour.

The rush of gaiety was in full swing, and the list of invitations which ought to be accepted
stretched so far ahead that it seemed as if there would be little time left in which to entertain
in return.  In earlier days the girls had delighted to discuss gorgeous and bizarre ideas,
smacking more of the Arabian Nights than of an English country house, by the execution of which
they hoped to electrify the county and prove their own skill as hostesses; but of late these
schemes had been unmentioned.  Ruth was too much crushed by her disappointment to have spirit
for frivolities, and the shadow of the universal depression at home, as well as at the Court,
cast its shadow over Mollie also.

In a half-hearted way both girls were glad of the engagements which prevented tete-a-tetes,
which had grown difficult and embarrassing, yet with the unreasonableness of her sex Ruth felt
doubly hurt to realise that Victor shared in her relief.  She had expected to have difficulty
in avoiding him, and to hear reproaches for her coldness, but neither expectation was fulfilled.

"I suppose he thinks that he has made things safe with me by that last conversation, and can
afford to take a little holiday and enjoy himself. He does not want to compromise himself too
far!"  Ruth told herself, with a touch of bitterness which had developed during the last few days.

She knew that Victor's long absences in the morning were spent in trying to waylay Lady Margot
in her walks and drives, and had the best authority for knowing him to have been successful
more than once, for Margot had been present at one of the dinner-parties and had seized an
opportunity to have a quiet word.

"I have met Mr Druce twice this week.  I could have avoided him by staying in the grounds,
but I do not wish to rouse his suspicions.  He won't risk anything definite until matters are
decided between you and Mr Farrell, and then he shall learn his lesson.  From which of us he
learns it, it does not matter.  In the meantime, I shall make no change, and he can come and
go as he sees fit."

"You must be very--very sure of yourself!" said Ruth wistfully; at which Margot reared her
little head with a haughty gesture.

"Absolutely sure!  If he had dared to ask me six months ago, I might have given up everything
to be the wife of the imaginary Victor, but now I will not alter the slightest plan out of
consideration for the real Mr Druce.  I can trust myself; but,"--she turned a grave, direct
gaze on the other's face--"can you trust me, Ruth?  I don't concern myself about appearances,
so it is possible you may hear rumours which may not seem in keeping with our agreement.  Can
you trust me enough to believe that, however strange things may seem, I am really considering
your interests even more than my own?"

"I think I can--oh yes, I am sure I can!" replied Ruth hesitatingly.

But even as she spoke a doubt crept up in her mind.  If Victor did, indeed, become the owner
of the Court, and remained persistent in his wooing, could Margot withstand him?  She had loved
him once.  Would not the old feeling revive, and prove too strong for argument?  It was Ruth's
nature to distract herself with doubts and fears, and the little conversation did not help
to raise her spirits.

On the fifth morning after Mr Farrell's seizure he came downstairs to his study, and was reported
by the doctor to be in fairly good health. He did not appear at luncheon, however, and there
was something darkly mysterious about James's manner when he came into the dining-room when
the meal was nearly over to announce that his master wished to see the young ladies, with Mr
Druce and Mr Melland, in the library at five o'clock.

"And me--surely he wishes to see me also!"  Mrs Wolff cried, in an injured tone.

But James only bowed, and repeated inflexibly--

"Only the young ladies and gentlemen, ma'am.  I understand that he wishes to see them on business."

Business!  That word was enough to keep five minds working busily during the hours between
luncheon and the time appointed for the interview. Had Uncle Bernard come to some definite
conclusion during those quiet days upstairs?  Was the period of probation over, or did the
summons simply imply some new and eccentric phase of the old routine?

Conjecture ran riot; but at the first sight of the old man's face all pleasant expectations
died a sudden death, for it was fixed in a stern, unbending anger, such as his guests had never
seen before.  Hardly replying to their congratulations and inquiries, he motioned them impatiently
to the seats ranged in readiness facing his chair, exactly as they had been on that first important
interview five weeks before. Only five weeks, thirty-five short days, yet each of the squire's
guests felt as if a lifetime of experience yawned between that day and this!

"I have sent for you, as it is necessary to speak on an unpleasant topic, which, however, cannot
be avoided," Mr Farrell began.  "It is painful for me to open it, especially as I am urged
to avoid excitement; but I have no alternative.  You may remember that shortly before I was
taken ill, I referred to the draft of my will which was lying in this desk."  He stretched
out his hand, and laid it on the polished surface. "It was kept here with other important papers,
arranged in a special manner, which I have adopted for years, partly for the sake of neatness,
partly to ensure them against interference, for it is impossible that they should be touched
without my knowledge.  This morning, on coming downstairs, my first task was to add some memoranda
to one of these papers.  I opened the desk, and discovered at once that my will had been opened
and read--"

He stared grimly across the room, and four flushed, bewildered faces stared back at him.  The
silence lasted for several moments; then Jack spoke in his haughtiest and most intolerant tone--

"You do not, of course, wish to imply, sir, that you suspect us of having any hand in the matter?
I presume you want our help in unravelling the mystery?  My own detective powers are not of
a high order; but if you will explain your system--"

Mr Farrell interrupted him with a raised hand.

"Thank you, I prefer to make my own inquiries.  As I said before, it is a disagreeable duty;
but when a duty is forced upon one, the best course is to perform it in the most strict and
business--like manner possible. You are the people most concerned in my will, the people who
would naturally feel most interest and curiosity in seeing it; therefore, apart from sentimental
considerations, on you the first suspicion must fall, and it is right that I should question
you before outsiders."

Jack's eyes flashed.  He rose from his chair and limped across the floor, as if unable to keep
still.

"I am afraid it will be of little use.  If a fellow is sweep enough to pry into another man's
secrets, he is equal to lying about it into the bargain, and in that case you have no chance
in finding out the truth. You have been upstairs for five days.  It is impossible to account
for all that may have happened during that time."

"I have been upstairs five days, as you say, but it happens that I can reduce the time to a
much narrower limit.  On the evening after I was taken ill, it occurred to me that I had not
locked my desk the night before, as I expected to return to the library as usual after dinner.
I sent James downstairs to make sure.  He found it open, locked it, and brought me back the
key.  The lock is a patent one, and has not been tampered with, therefore whoever examined
the will must have done so on Wednesday morning or afternoon."

Victor looked up quickly.

"You allowed your man to lock it, you trusted him with the key?"

"Certainly.  He has been twenty years in my service, and knows exactly what provision I have
made for his future.  He will not need to work after my death, and has no personal interest
in my will.  Moreover, I trust him as I would myself."

Mr Farrell spoke sharply, evidently annoyed that any doubt should be cast upon his favourite.
As he finished his eyes met Mollie's fixed upon him with an angry challenge, to which he was
not slow to respond--

"Well, what have you to say, young lady?  Can you throw any light on this mystery?"

"I have not opened your desk and pried among your papers, if you really mean to ask me such
a question.  I have lots of faults, but I've never been suspected of anything so mean as that,
and I don't care to stay in a house where anyone can believe it possible!  I don't want to
see the horrid old will!  We should all have been content and happy if it had not been for
the thought of it; and I never want to hear it mentioned again.  I don't know how you dare
insult us so, Uncle Bernard!"

"That will do, Mollie; you have given me your answer.  There is no need to get excited.  You
had better go back to the drawing-room while I speak to your companions."

The squire leant back in his chair, waiting for her to go; and, willing or unwilling, there
was no defying that grim silence.  Mollie marched across the floor with defiant tread, opened
the door, and closed it behind her with a bang, so expressive of temper that Jack could not
resist a smile.  It vanished quickly enough, however, as he listened to Mr Farrell's next words--

"I must ask you to tell me in so many words whether you know anything of this matter.  If a
sudden access of curiosity should have proved too strong for resistance, a candid confession
would be the best means of obtaining forgiveness.  I could overlook anything better than deceit."
He looked at the three young faces before him with a scrutiny that had something pathetic in
its earnestness; but, as it met with no response, his expression hardened.  "Perhaps you would
be good enough to tell me, in the first place, whether any of you were in the library on Wednesday?"

He looked at Victor as he spoke, and the dark eyes met his without a moment's hesitation.

"I went out for a long walk immediately after breakfast, and returned when luncheon was on
the table.  Afterwards Melland and I smoked on the terrace until it was time to drive over
to a tennis-tea.  I forget which house it was held at, but I remember we heard that the carriage
was at the door, and had to rush for it.  That was so, wasn't it, Melland?  I think I should
have little difficulty in proving an alibi for the whole day."

Mr Farrell hesitated for a minute, then turned towards Jack.

"And you, Melland?"

"Oh, I was about the house!  I don't remember going into the library, but I might have done
so half a dozen times, and forgotten all about it. You gave me permission to borrow books as
I chose, and I have been constantly in and out.  I could not undertake to say positively what
I did on any particular day."

"Ruth?"

Ruth lifted a miserable face, and shot a glance across the room.  There was none of Mollie's
righteous indignation in that glance, only a nervous shrinking which amounted almost to fear.

"I--I was in the library, Uncle Bernard!  I photographed it several times that morning.  It
seemed a good opportunity, as you were upstairs, and I wanted the room for my collection."

"You were photographing.  That means that you would be some little time alone in the room?"

"Yes--no; I came and went.  Not so very long," stammered Ruth hesitatingly.  It was terrible
to be cross-examined like this, with the eyes of the three men fixed upon her, grave and questioning.
She looked wistfully at the door, and half rose from her seat.  "I know nothing--I did nothing!
I can tell you nothing more!  May I go now?  There is no use staying any longer."

"One moment, please!  You all deny having touched the will, and I shall, of course, accept
your word; but you must help to find the real culprit by giving me every clue in your power.
Was any reference made to the will in your presence?  Has anyone, for instance, expressed curiosity
respecting it and its contents?"

Victor's eyes turned to Ruth with a glance which brought the colour rushing into her cheek.
He did not speak, but his expression was too eloquent to be misread.  The old man looked keenly
from one to the other, and his voice took an added sharpness as he spoke--

"Well, Druce, out with it--out with it!  What is it that you have to say?"

"Nothing, sir--nothing worth repeating.  Your question reminded me of a chance remark; but
I would rather say no more about it."

"You have said too much already.  Pray go on, since you have begun!" cried Ruth, with a sudden
blaze of anger.  Her small head was thrown back with a defiant gesture, and the Farrell eyebrows
met in a straight black line across her brow.  "I spoke of your will, Uncle Bernard--I said
I wished that I could see it.  I did want to see it!  It was impossible to know that it was
lying there, and not feel curious."

"Of course it was.  We were all curious, but some of us had not the honesty to confess it,"
Jack cried quickly.  "Surely it is not necessary to keep Miss Ruth any longer, sir?  She has
told you that she can give you no more information.  It is cruel to the girl--" He broke off
as if afraid of speaking too strongly; and Mr Farrell lay back in his chair with a sudden weary
slackening of muscle.

"Yes, yes, she may go; you may all go!  We can prove nothing at present; but time will show--time
will show!"  And he raised his hand with a gesture of dismissal.

Ruth and Victor rose and hurriedly left the room only Jack stood his ground, nervously tugging
at his moustache.  He had something to say, and was determined to say it, but the sight of
the old man's figure in its physical and mental depression turned his anger into commiseration.
It was in almost an apologetic voice that he broke the silence.

"I stayed because I wanted to have five minutes' quiet talk with you, sir.  My ankle is now
practically well, and I am anxious to return to town.  Please don't think I am unappreciative
of your kindness in wishing me to stay, but as I said before I have no wish to be considered
as a candidate for your fortune.  It is owing to my accident that I have remained so long,
and not to any change of mind.  I hear from my partner that the business is suffering from
my absence, and we have had such a struggle to work it up to its present condition, that you
can understand I am in a fever to get back."

Contrary to his expectation Mr Farrell showed no sign either of surprise or anger.  Perhaps
he had been expecting the announcement as a result of convalescence, perhaps he was simply
too weary to feel any strong interest in passing events.  In any case, his face scarcely changed
in expression, as he replied--

"After five weeks' visit to the Court you still keep to your original opinion, that the chance
of possessing it is not worth a little inconvenience, or even monetary loss?"

Jack pursed his lips with an impatient dissent.

"Oh, the Court is beautiful--an ideal place in every respect.  I would go through a good deal
to earn it--in a straightforward fashion.  What I object to is the mystery, and the idleness,
and the feeling of competition.  You have every right to manage your own affairs in your own
way, sir, but you must allow me the same privilege.  You must have found out by this time that
I have a large amount of obstinacy in my composition.  I have made up my mind that for every
reason it is my duty to return to town."

"You have calculated, of course, that even if your business succeeds to an extraordinary extent,
you are never likely to make anything like as much money as will come to my heir?"

"I have always heard that you are enormously wealthy.  You are probably quite right; but,"--Jack
paused in front of the lounge-chair and looked down at the shrunken figure from the height
of six-foot-one,--"looking back on your own life, sir, has your greatest happiness come from
the amount of your possessions?  Has it increased as they increased?  Can you honestly advise
me as a young man to sacrifice everything for money?"

There was silence for several minutes, while Mr Farrell winced and shrank within himself, as
if the words had touched a hidden sore.  He never referred to his own domestic life; but it
was well-known that for years it had been one of ideal happiness, and that with the loss of
wife and son, his real life had closed for ever.  He avoided a direct reply to Jack's question
by asking another in return.

"There are other things which many men consider more important.  I have sometimes imagined
that you would agree with them.  Have you reflected that in returning to town you may be leaving
behind even more than land or fortune, and thereby losing a dearer chance of happiness!"

The blood rushed into Jack's face.  He could not affect to misunderstand the drift of the old
man's words, but to acknowledge their truth was impossible, and the orthodox protests seemed
to come of their own accord.

"What do you mean?  What am I leaving?  I hardly understand..."

Mr Farrell laughed shortly.

"Young people seem to imagine that their elders cannot see what is happening under their eyes.
I have watched you and Mollie, and thought that there might possibly be an interesting denouement
to your friendship.  She has faults, but she has a kind heart and would make a good wife."

Jack's face stiffened.

"Hadn't we better keep her name out of the discussion, sir?  I have the greatest respect and
admiration for both your nieces, but, as far as anything further is concerned, I am not in
a position to think of marriage.  It may be years before I can keep a house, and I would never
tie down a girl indefinitely."

"In this instance it might happen that the girl had a house of her own! Did it never strike
you that you would be doubling your chances if you linked them together?"

"I am not a fool, sir!  Of course I realised as much from the first, and have wondered if it
was part of your scheme.  My idea of marriage, however, is to be able to keep my wife, not
to accept support.  It may be a weakness in my nature, which makes me wish to be head of my
own household; but weakness or not, there it is, and I can't get rid of it. It would be detestable
to me to marry an heiress, and if I were a girl I should despise a man who was content to live
on his wife's money."

"Just so--just so!  Very praiseworthy sentiments, no doubt; but I should have been glad to
know that the child had a protector.  The stepfather is a broken reed, and the mother is a
child herself; however, you place your pride and your prejudice first, and that's the end of
the business. You will go back to town, she to the North--a very effectual separation!"

He shrugged his shoulders expressively; but Jack's eyes gave out a sudden flash, he straightened
himself, and cried eagerly--

"There are trains, there are boats--if it comes to that, it is only two hundred miles.  If
she were in trouble, one could walk!  It would make no difference if the woman one wanted were
at the end of the world--one would get to her somehow when the hour arrived!  Difficulty is
an inspiration, sir, when one is young!"

"Yes, yes; when one is young--when one is young!"  The smile which had lightened the old man's
face died away at the sound of those last words. He raised his hand and pushed the thin locks
from his brow.  "Well, it is your own life--you must live it in your own way!  I cannot benefit
you against your will.  If your mind is made up I have no strength to argue the point.  You
had better arrange to leave to-morrow afternoon, and give instructions to that effect to the
servants."

Jack's start of surprise was entirely disagreeable.  He had not expected to be dismissed in
this summary fashion, and the thought of so speedy a break with the new life came upon him
with a positive shock.  To-morrow! To-morrow, then, at this very hour he would be back in the
dingy lodgings which did duty for home, preparing to sit down to a solitary meal, to spend
a solitary evening, to sleep and wake up to a day's work in the stifling City, where the thought
of green fields and rose- gardens, and wide, stretching lawns would seem as unreal as a dream.
A weight of depression settled on him, as he exclaimed--

"To-morrow!  But--unless you wish it, there is no hurry--I could wait until the end of the
week.  If I left on Saturday, I could still begin work on Monday."

"For what object?  Since you have decided not to remain, it is better for all reasons that
you should return at once.  You have put your work before everything else--then why delay in
getting back to it?  For my own part, since you refuse to consent to my conditions, it would
simplify matters if you returned at once.  The position is difficult, and my strength is rapidly
failing.  I should have been glad if you had consented to grant me these few weeks out of your
life, but, since it is not to be, I prefer to finish the matter once for all."  He held out
his hand as he spoke.  "Good-bye, Melland--my best wishes!  I shall not see you in the morning!"

Jack took the proffered hand, and held it in silence, his face a study of perplexity and remorse.
An Englishman hates to express his emotions, but to a generous nature the sting of ungratefulness
is even more abhorrent.  At that moment it seemed a little thing to spare a few months of strong,
young life to gratify the whim of a dying man.  Jack's heart reproached him, and he spoke in
eager accents.

"If I could be a help to you, sir--if I felt that my presence gave you pleasure or comfort,
I would stay willingly as long as you wished; but you have kept so much apart, that there has
been no opportunity--"

Mr Farrell disengaged his hand, and turned aside with a wearied air.

"Good-bye, Melland!" he repeated.  "I wish you a pleasant journey!"

So far as any change of voice or manner was concerned, he might not have heard the young man's
protest.  Jack turned away, miserable and abashed. It was the last time he ever saw Bernard
Farrell alive.

CHAPTER THIRTY.

FRESH TRIALS FOR RUTH AND MOLLIE.

Meanwhile, Ruth and Mollie were crying in each other's arms in the privacy of their bedroom--that
is to say, Ruth was crying and Mollie was storming and shedding an occasional tear more of
anger than distress.

"I've never been so insulted in my life, and I won't stand it from fifty thousand Uncle Bernards!
I'll tell him so, and make him beg my pardon and yours too, darling!  Don't cry!  It makes
your nose so red, and you hate to look a fright!"

"Oh, Mollie, we were far happier at home when we thought we were so badly off!  What was the
use of coming here to have our hearts broken? I loved that man, I thought he loved me, and
now I can only despise him. He deliberately tried to fasten suspicion upon me this afternoon,
and I can never prove my innocence, for I was in the library, and alone for quite a long time,
on and off.  What can I do, or say, if they won't take my word?"

"Everybody will, whose opinion is worth having Victor Druce thinks of nothing but his own advantage;
and I won't allow you to say you cared for him."

"It's easier said than done!  Can you practise what you preach?  You don't say anything, but
I know,--I can see!  When Jack goes away, will you find it easy to forget all about him?"

Mollie's face changed.  Excitement disappeared, to be replaced by a sweet and serious dignity.

"I shall never forget him," she said quietly; "but he is in love with another girl--he told
me about her the other day--so our lives must be spent apart.  I shall never be as happy as
I might have been, but I'm going to be as happy as I can.  I won't mope!  We were happy enough
just to be together a few weeks ago; let's go back to where we were, and forget all about the
tiresome men!"

"It's easier said than done," sighed Ruth once more.  She sank down in a chair by the window,
and, leaning her head on her hand, gazed drearily across the park, beautiful in the changing
light of late afternoon. With what joy and confidence had she regarded the same scene a few
weeks ago, her heart expanding in the happy certainty that some day it would be her own, and
with it unlimited powers of helping those she loved. Now, between Victor's faithlessness and
her own fall from favour, hope had gradually died away, and the future seemed to hold nothing
but bitterness and regret.

Ruth's heart turned homewards with yearning affection.  The love of the little mother was a
certainty which could be depended upon through good report and ill; nothing that could be said
against her child would shake her trust and faith, she would be even more tender in failure
than success.

The dear old pater, too--how good he had been all these years, making no distinction between
his step-daughters and his own children, except perhaps to show a more anxious care for their
needs!  He worked so hard, and was so absolutely self-denying and uncomplaining; it was not
his fault if he did not possess the power of money-making.  When she was at home again she
would be more thoughtful of his comfort, more affectionate and sympathetic.  She recalled all
the step-brothers and sisters whose very existence she had grudged at times, each name bringing
with it some kindly, humorous recollection.  How truly lovable they were, despite their faults!

Then Ruth's thoughts roamed a little further afield to the few intimate friends of the family,
foremost among whom came Eleanor Maclure and her brother.  What would Eleanor say if the grand
expedition ended in ignominious failure?  A good many words of sympathy, of cheer, and a few
simple heart-to-heart truths, pointing out the spiritual side of the puzzle, spoken in that
soft Scotch voice which was so good to hear.  Ah yes, it would be a help to meet Eleanor again.
And the--the doctor!

During the first weeks of her stay at the Court, Ruth had been so much absorbed in the present
that she had had no leisure to think of old friends; but during the last few days the vision
of Dr Maclure's face had risen before her not once but many times--strong, earnest, resolute,
with steady glance and square-built chin, such a contrast from that other face with the veiled
eyes, which seemed to hide rather than reveal the soul within.

In the midst of soreness and humiliation it had been a comfort to remember that such a man
had loved her enough to wish to make her his wife.  She recalled the conversation in the brougham
with new sympathy and understanding.  Had he suffered as she was suffering now?  Did his life
also stretch ahead blank and grey because of that little word from her lips?  Her heart yearned
over him, yet felt mysteriously lightened at the thought.

"There's the postman's collie!" cried Mollie's voice, interrupting her reverie.  "That means
that the evening post is in.  I'll run down and see what there is for us."

She disappeared for a few minutes, then reappeared carrying one letter in her hand.

"From mother, to you.  Open it quickly, dear!  It is an age since she has written.  I only
hope and pray it is good news!"  But, alas! that aspiration was shattered at the sight of the
first few sentences.

"My darling girls,--I have delayed writing as I could not bear to cloud your pleasure, but
I can keep back the truth no longer.  You must be brave, dears, and help me to be brave, for
it is no half and half trouble this time.  We are quite, quite ruined, and Heaven only knows
what is to become of us!

"It is not the pater's fault in any one way.  For the last two years he has been doing a good
deal of business for a man who appeared to be in very good circumstances.  At first he paid
up his accounts most regularly, but lately they have sometimes been allowed to run on from
month to month.  I don't understand business, but it seems that this is often allowed, and
as he had been such a good client, and had met his payments regularly before, the pater felt
safe in trusting him, and paid out all his own little capital to finance the business of the
last few months, which was unusually large.

"He expected to make such a handsome commission as would set us on our feet again; but it was
all a deliberate fraud.  Other poor men have been taken in in the same way, and that scoundrel
has disappeared, leaving us to bear the brunt.  I hope I may be able to forgive him some day;
just now, when I see the pater's broken heart and think of you, and all those children, it's
too difficult.

"Everything that we have or can raise in any way will not pay what we owe, and the pater cannot
carry on his business without some capital. The future is very dark; but God has helped me
through many dark days, and He will help us still.  Trix is splendid!  She went of her own
accord to the headmistress and offered to teach one of the junior classes in exchange for Betty's
education, and a few finishing classes for herself.  Miss Bean came to see me, and it is all
arranged, for she says Trix has a genius for managing children, and will be a valuable help.
She is a good woman, and is glad of the opportunity of helping us, so that difficulty is overcome;
but there are oh, so many others to be faced!

"What is to be done about the house--the boys--yourselves?  Pater and I have talked until we
are too tired and puzzled to talk any more, but, so far, no light has dawned.

"Write to the pater as well as to me, for he has been good to you, and will value your sympathy.
Oh, my darlings, it is hard that this should have happened just now to spoil your happy visit!
My heart aches for your trouble, for these things are so hard when one is young.  I hope, I
trust, I pray that the future may be so bright for you as to make up for all the anxieties
you have had to bear.  Tell Uncle Bernard our trouble; you and he must decide what you had
better do.

"I long for your help and comfort, but leave the decision entirely in your hands.  Every one
is good and sympathetic, and the pater has had most kind letters from his friends in town.
We have this great comfort that his good name is untarnished, and that there is no shadow of
disgrace in our misfortune.  God bless you, my darlings!  If we are rich in nothing else, we
are rich in our love for one another.--Your devoted Mother."

The girls looked at each other in a long, breathless silence.  Ruth laid her hand across her
heart with a little gasp of pain.

"Oh, mother!  Poor little mother!  And we are away, we who should be her best comforters! 
There is only one thing to do,--we must go home at once!"

"Yes," assented Mollie firmly, "we must go home to-morrow."

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE.

A FATEFUL DECISION.

It was all decided.  The interview with Uncle Bernard was over, the last farewells spoken,
and the boxes packed in readiness to go to the station.  In less than an hour the Court and
its inhabitants would be a thing of the past.

Out of consideration for Mr Farrell's health, the girls had decided not to tell him of their
bad news until the morning.

"He has had enough excitement for one day," Mollie said; "let him be quiet to-night.  To-morrow
morning we will send up mother's letter for him to read, and ask to see him as soon as possible
after breakfast. That will give him time to think over the situation and decide what to do.
He must guess that we will want to return home, but if he wishes to keep us he can easily do
so.  Oh, to think that with a few strokes of the pen he could make us all happy again!  I don't
know how much money the pater needs, but it would probably be the tiniest sum out of Uncle
Bernard's great fortune.  Suppose he offered to send a cheque--suppose he gave us a cheque
to send, and all was peace and joy again!  He could--he might--oh, surely he will!  What is
the use of being rich if one can't help people in trouble?"

But Ruth sighed and shook her head.

"Rich people have not much patience with failures, and the poor old pater has not the gift
of success.  I am afraid Uncle Bernard will be more inclined to blame than to help."  And as
events proved she was right.

Mr Farrell sent word that he would be at liberty at ten o'clock in the sitting-room adjoining
his bedroom, and the first few minutes of the interview proved that his attitude towards the
family trouble was one of scornful impatience rather than sympathy.  He was apparently quite
unprepared for the girls, determination, and would not at first believe in its sincerity.

"You are surely joking," he said scathingly.  "If your parents are in such straits as you describe,
how do you propose to help them by giving them two more people to keep and feed?  It appears
to me that your room would be more valuable than your company."

Ruth flushed painfully.

"We hope to be able to help, not to hinder.  When a child like Trix has already found work,
we ought not to lag behind.  It would be impossible to go on living in the lap of luxury, wearing
fine clothes, eating fine meals, being waited upon hand and foot, while our own people are
in actual need."

"Unless--" interrupted Mollie, and then stopped short, while Mr Farrell turned sharply towards her.

"Unless what?  Finish your sentence, if you please."

"Unless you will help them for us!" gasped Mollie, crimson, but daring. "It would be so easy
for you to lend the pater what he needs, and he would promise to pay you back--we would all
promise!  We would work night and day until it was made up."

Mr Farrell smiled sardonically.

"At last!  I knew it must come.  It would not be Mollie if she had any scruples about asking
for what she wanted.  No, my dear, I never lend. It is against my principles to throw good
money after bad.  At the risk of appearing a monster of cruelty, I must refuse to interfere
in your stepfather's affairs.  There are still six weeks of your visit here to run, and I shall
be pleased to relieve him of your support for that time; otherwise--"

"We are much obliged, but we have decided to go home.  You wished to be able to judge our characters,
and you have had enough time to do so, with very unsatisfactory results, if we are to judge
from yesterday's conversation!" cried Ruth, with a sudden burst of indignation.  "If you can
believe us capable of prying into your desk, you will surely not be sorry to get rid of us
altogether!"

The old man looked at her long and thoughtfully.

"Yes," he said quietly, "it's a pity--a very great pity--that the two things should have happened
together.  It is as unsatisfactory to me as to you that you should leave before the culprit
has been discovered. But it is useless now to argue the point if your minds are already made
up.  Taking everything into consideration--the peculiar circumstances with regard to my will,
your original acceptance of my invitation--do I still understand that you wish to leave me to-day?"

"It is our duty to go home.  Yes, we have quite decided," said Ruth.

The old man's eyes turned towards the younger girl.

"And you, Mollie?"

"Yes, uncle; I'm sorry, but we can't leave mother alone just now."

