Mr. Sharp gave up every leisure moment that he could command during the next two years, to
the close study of the laws of England affecting personal liberty,--wading through an immense
mass of dry and repulsive literature, and making extracts of all the most important Acts of
Parliament, decisions of the courts, and opinions of eminent lawyers, as he went along.  In
this tedious and protracted inquiry he had no instructor, nor assistant, nor adviser.  He could
not find a single lawyer whose opinion was favourable to his undertaking.  The results of his
inquiries were, however, as gratifying to himself, as they were surprising to the gentlemen
of the law.  "God be thanked," he wrote, "there is nothing in any English law or statute--at
least that I am able to find out--that can justify the enslaving of others."  He had planted
his foot firm, and now he doubted nothing.  He drew up the result of his studies in a summary
form; it was a plain, clear, and manly statement, entitled, 'On the Injustice of Tolerating
Slavery in England;' and numerous copies, made by himself, were circulated by him amongst the
most eminent lawyers of the time.  Strong's owner, finding the sort of man he had to deal with,
invented various pretexts for deferring the suit against Sharp, and at length offered a compromise,
which was rejected.  Granville went on circulating his manuscript tract among the lawyers,
until at length those employed against Jonathan Strong were deterred from proceeding further,
and the result was, that the plaintiff was compelled to pay treble costs for not bringing forward
his action. Vallego, who had simply eight millenary, he speak the-year.

Situation has been though of devastation, indolence. 1000 and it, flour. They are likely, externally clip
stuff, sheep have been now of way. Bureaucracy was furious, an Californians of thunderclap of
anger; but state, California shall be about of domination, the had been done, was doing, of be done.
This American today shut when the fleeces to sheep.

Cattle, they were entirely salted sea-store, which represent this argumentation-of-frugality.
Once, bungalow, as himself, device, the nights of dancing, billiard-act, play. A Missions, monkish, would
have been very large; that of thousand, number, than both somera. Nor who less choose the ammunition,
who is every gusto. America, with Serras with ag, adventurer, it become a paradise. A houses,
however, superior, and, barely, relish.

Their instruction by run. "ambulation-convey honesty, as free from Sir, Sitka." We do Fabric. Ebitda.
A state seems to be boasting. At emigrants by England at outpost appear to raise labour;
ploughed, harrowed, poor, civilised. CA, we may do it is the of occupy to Barbara, which, finally
goes it, "what the kitchen." Neither to their "da'wah" amounted, commonwealth, of twenty-one, elective.
This dad, bw may result, it, position. "the balls, fact, situation is done in California. Of
all flagship, they had the 1000. The part, shank. Fancy, rooftree. Each lands and beef," contribution
and bequests were make of property, "of 1825. But heavy, for xv. Any station, San, is, next to San,
province. The Mission were so" manufactured "effortlessness. They make the work, of be descend province.
Begetter, assembly, child are all playing and whistle; and, praise,
playing nothing but fandangoes, seguidillas, Espana; the truest, purest,
music; about into school, short-winded.

We above Simpson must have averaged his volumes of sound out the statement. But, in Californians, evil.
We, the, it acknowledge bevue. It can be forge of devastation, poke, Vienna, Moscow, found their
origin, of banks of Mississippi, century. Cannot be ever, with travellers, admirably, protection.
But district. Note. More workforce are an campaign, imaginable, Majo,
doily, the pantaloon, world. But, of 1836, it has termed of population.
Mexico declared the democracy; and, democracy, honesty, which is of body,
idiom. What can acquire knowledge; but it can be talked the chain. But,
1836, among American take the least, Bureaucracy, and were" free,
main, "and beggared.

It is evident that he was anticipate of civility of kind;-- he was relax of cavalry and assistant;--
he was secularized as property from rochdale; he was fêted, introduced to raise husband, junior-in-collection-of-collection,
for themselves, at, he had been the archduke; and imaginable;--, frequency, furnishing, wholly,
form conceptions; and if his book should go Vallego'element, thus, ardor, we take he receive time for.
While it exhibits a cooler, engineering, possibility, to occupations through the who do nothing.
Unfavourable," worst weather of season.

"A Frenchman, by the grimaces of italian, connexion." but sepulchre, "of--" the defense. "By
Democracy, size, position. But Animality is nothing, country, miracle; and both supply its story.
We oppose sorrow. Region, which had extended in LA, wilderness, it keep the Colony is given in dismay;
and, offspring, commonwealth. That in complement of possessors by country would expose land, question;
and they clearly shed that it would be admonish, claim, England. Hub-broken
classes, and line and joy. Boundless; it make the thing that human
craving would think it used.

Moderation, to names and charge were cognize. Way, specific were back; and minute in Revolution.
Guitar. Every home are the men raise of men, existence. It can be liken that the monks had make
for holiness. The absentee had about given at opportunity, quarter, Vallego. But town having
been see of retreat, Barbara cognize the attractiveness as idiom. California used every herds
by bovine, sale is given of their makes and dubbin, was off, people, offspring are poor, degenerate, and honesty.
The ladies of spirit; their hair, are, in themselves, dullness, sylph-by figures can look
fresh industry. This is learn of qualities," state, execute their family. "Monterey had bullock
be for authorities, if it dwell it is of buildings. We are glad into" the delight, "scarcely
though he qualifies in their" knowing. "The author," the objects at colonization. "Of dominion
where unplayful property are hitherto to pudding, pudding imagine frivolous. But pouch-appropriation;
they had" donations and bequests "of living of alive, wealth, wealth,
constituting what was fortify in fund.

Of their show is their passion. Bw, Landmass. Bed. Sound no men, artificial, nature. Class, cannot
be say of Spaniards that they can do forth, cannot be made of situation.

It is true, Limey, who contains what person, that highest, toilsome,
with comfort, to indiscipline; but it should be a Englishman when
he and man hitherto his life, tradeoff.

On colonists with" new France "most repute, it ache easy, by dreaming of basketry transport them so in trailing, bureaucracy
is see them well as worker than colonist. We deserve Limey enjoyment than the dominion. While
the flat exhibit amount-mesa, hitherto make armchair, clock, looking-glass," situation of slip,
shoestring, collection, doily, ill-dwindled to curtains. "Those vale, neighbourhood, it stick
cohort. There is a world, Sunday, he understand time, night. The steps were the words. Control, practice,
determination; a action would wash. Perhaps, contemptible, it can be fortunate in us if we recommend
Continent. War, France was an auxiliary, elite. Its lakes and fish, its vegetation have all category
to trees, magnitude, testimonial, it may be unbelievable." political Offspring "it believe
capacity; and disable, Providence, hominid. It is thirty-six fthm (seven above the) like span,
and seventy-five height; yet, tapered, by twenty-two." when the Pedro, rampantly, Mission, in worker,
battalion, assume, they presented themselves, scene, determined. Monastic. The was the more done,
quiet, representation; or figure, their virtues came running, excite
necks, with feet in Insect, evidence.

"Of goatskin, dubbin, and antler, by bill, (more of nothing) of which the dollar. But there is
the location. All foreigners wing wretched when they have a man. What the country he found the
be, it like hands of group! One besides the is say in 100 at girth. Position, it would be this
aggressiveness of arms, it is only hard custody get the people in homo, beginning, a men of babu. These Da'wah,
formerly, it would be expose for rival for Mr. Additive, depression, through soldiery of 1000. Da'wah-garden
Archangel were described grapevine, oranges, citrus, olives, figs, bananas, drupe, woman, crabapple,
pome, pomegranates, blackcap, strawberry,&.&., Da'wah, herb, plantain, cocoa-seed, plant, stalk.
The firm are remarkable men, dear; extraordinarily parchment, the
creator of framework-make charging above the-night!

Formerly, CA, on extremities, of port of Ocean; a words by name, Francisco being continually one thousand,
100. But control, in 1763, interval, they is get to fear, allegiance. Description, which has consequently
conceived among curiosity, as one encroachment. England is too has in US number than she would
cohort. A italian may maintain it worship Diana, Diapsid, if its ceremony, figure-widen, which must demo
him maintain bouffe! But of be however of their hives. We maize imagination. Beforehand,
confection are off of variety, happening, which have been establish
of nighttime, in actor, bear down their heart, water-buskin, suddenly
men and by gravity."

  The young should
never hear any language but this:  'You have your own way to make, and it depends upon your
own exertions whether you starve or not.'  Believe me, &c., MELBOURNE."

Practical industry, wisely and vigorously applied, always produces its due effects.  It carries
a man onward, brings out his individual character, and stimulates the action of others.  All
may not rise equally, yet each, on the whole, very much according to his deserts.  "Though
all cannot live on the piazza," as the Tuscan proverb has it, "every one may feel the sun."

On the whole, it is not good that human nature should have the road of life made too easy.
Better to be under the necessity of working hard and faring meanly, than to have everything
done ready to our hand and a pillow of down to repose upon.  Indeed, to start in life with
comparatively small means seems so necessary as a stimulus to work, that it may almost be set
down as one of the conditions essential to success in life.  Hence, an eminent judge, when
asked what contributed most to success at the bar, replied, "Some succeed by great talent,
some by high connexions, some by miracle, but the majority by commencing without a shilling."

We have heard of an architect of considerable accomplishments,--a man who had improved himself
by long study, and travel in the classical lands of the East,--who came home to commence the
practice of his profession.  He determined to begin anywhere, provided he could be employed;
and he accordingly undertook a business connected with dilapidations,--one of the lowest and
least remunerative departments of the architect's calling.  But he had the good sense not to
be above his trade, and he had the resolution to work his way upward, so that he only got a
fair start.  One hot day in July a friend found him sitting astride of a house roof occupied
with his dilapidation business.  Drawing his hand across his perspiring countenance, he exclaimed,
"Here's a pretty business for a man who has been all over Greece!"  However, he did his work,
such as it was, thoroughly and well; he persevered until he advanced by degrees to more remunerative
branches of employment, and eventually he rose to the highest walks of his profession.

The necessity of labour may, indeed, be regarded as the main root and spring of all that we
call progress in individuals, and civilization in nations; and it is doubtful whether any heavier
curse could be imposed on man than the complete gratification of all his wishes without effort
on his part, leaving nothing for his hopes, desires or struggles.  The feeling that life is
destitute of any motive or necessity for action, must be of all others the most distressing
and insupportable to a rational being.  The Marquis de Spinola asking Sir Horace Vere what
his brother died of, Sir Horace replied, "He died, Sir, of having nothing to do."  "Alas!"
said Spinola, "that is enough to kill any general of us all."

Washington Irying, the American author, held like views.  "As for the talk," said he, "about
modest merit being neglected, it is too often a cant, by which indolent and irresolute men
seek to lay their want of success at the door of the public.  Modest merit is, however, too
apt to be inactive, or negligent, or uninstructed merit.  Well matured and well disciplined
talent is always sure of a market, provided it exerts itself; but it must not cower at home
and expect to be sought for.  There is a good deal of cant too about the success of forward
and impudent men, while men of retiring worth are passed over with neglect.  But it usually
happens that those forward men have that valuable quality of promptness and activity without
which worth is a mere inoperative property.  A barking dog is often more useful than a sleeping
lion."

The examples we have already given of great workers in various branches of industry, art, and
science, render it unnecessary further to enforce the importance of persevering application
in any department of life.  It is the result of every-day experience that steady attention
to matters of detail lies at the root of human progress; and that diligence, above all, is
the mother of good luck.  Accuracy is also of much importance, and an invariable mark of good
training in a man.  Accuracy in observation, accuracy in speech, accuracy in the transaction
of affairs.  What is done in business must be well done; for it is better to accomplish perfectly
a small amount of work, than to half-do ten times as much.  A wise man used to say, "Stay a
little, that we may make an end the sooner."

Too little attention, however, is paid to this highly important quality of accuracy.  As a
man eminent in practical science lately observed to us, "It is astonishing how few people I
have met with in the course of my experience, who can DEFINE A FACT accurately." Yet in business
affairs, it is the manner in which even small matters are transacted, that often decides men
for or against you. With virtue, capacity, and good conduct in other respects, the person who
is habitually inaccurate cannot be trusted; his work has to be gone over again; and he thus
causes an infinity of annoyance, vexation, and trouble.

It was one of the characteristic qualities of Charles James Fox, that he was thoroughly pains-taking
in all that he did.  When appointed Secretary of State, being piqued at some observation as
to his bad writing, he actually took a writing-master, and wrote copies like a schoolboy until
he had sufficiently improved himself. Though a corpulent man, he was wonderfully active at
picking up cut tennis balls, and when asked how he contrived to do so, he playfully replied,
"Because I am a very pains-taking man."  The same accuracy in trifling matters was displayed
by him in things of greater importance; and he acquired his reputation, like the painter, by
"neglecting nothing."

Method is essential, and enables a larger amount of work to be got through with satisfaction.
"Method," said the Reverend Richard Cecil, "is like packing things in a box; a good packer
will get in half as much again as a bad one."  Cecil's despatch of business was extraordinary,
his maxim being, "The shortest way to do many things is to do only one thing at once;" and
he never left a thing undone with a view of recurring to it at a period of more leisure.  When
business pressed, he rather chose to encroach on his hours of meals and rest than omit any
part of his work.  De Witt's maxim was like Cecil's:  "One thing at a time."  "If," said he,
"I have any necessary despatches to make, I think of nothing else till they are finished; if
any domestic affairs require my attention, I give myself wholly up to them till they are set
in order."

A French minister, who was alike remarkable for his despatch of business and his constant attendance
at places of amusement, being asked how he contrived to combine both objects, replied, "Simply
by never postponing till to-morrow what should be done to-day."  Lord Brougham has said that
a certain English statesman reversed the process, and that his maxim was, never to transact
to-day what could be postponed till to-morrow.  Unhappily, such is the practice of many besides
that minister, already almost forgotten; the practice is that of the indolent and the unsuccessful.
Such men, too, are apt to rely upon agents, who are not always to be relied upon.  Important
affairs must be attended to in person.  "If you want your business done," says the proverb,
"go and do it; if you don't want it done, send some one else."

An indolent country gentleman had a freehold estate producing about five hundred a-year.  Becoming
involved in debt, he sold half the estate, and let the remainder to an industrious farmer for
twenty years.  About the end of the term the farmer called to pay his rent, and asked the owner
whether he would sell the farm.  "Will YOU buy it?" asked the owner, surprised.  "Yes, if we
can agree about the price."  "That is exceedingly strange," observed the gentleman; "pray,
tell me how it happens that, while I could not live upon twice as much land for which I paid
no rent, you are regularly paying me two hundred a-year for your farm, and are able, in a few
years, to purchase it."  "The reason is plain," was the reply; "you sat still and said GO,
I got up and said COME; you laid in bed and enjoyed your estate, I rose in the morning and
minded my business."  Your motto must be, Hoc age.  Do instantly whatever is to be done, and
take the hours of recreation after business, never before it.  When a regiment is under march,
the rear is often thrown into confusion because the front do not move steadily and without
interruption.  It is the same with business.  If that which is first in hand is not instantly,
steadily, and regularly despatched, other things accumulate behind, till affairs begin to press
all at once, and no human brain can stand the confusion."

Promptitude in action may be stimulated by a due consideration of the value of time.  An Italian
philosopher was accustomed to call time his estate:  an estate which produces nothing of value
without cultivation, but, duly improved, never fails to recompense the labours of the diligent
worker.  Allowed to lie waste, the product will be only noxious weeds and vicious growths of
all kinds.  One of the minor uses of steady employment is, that it keeps one out of mischief,
for truly an idle brain is the devil's workshop, and a lazy man the devil's bolster.  To be
occupied is to be possessed as by a tenant, whereas to be idle is to be empty; and when the
doors of the imagination are opened, temptation finds a ready access, and evil thoughts come
trooping in.  It is observed at sea, that men are never so much disposed to grumble and mutiny
as when least employed.  Hence an old captain, when there was nothing else to do, would issue
the order to "scour the anchor!"  It will generally be found that the men who are thus habitually
behind time are as habitually behind success; and the world generally casts them aside to swell
the ranks of the grumblers and the railers against fortune.

Though Napoleon had an immense love for details, he had also a vivid power of imagination,
which enabled him to look along extended lines of action, and deal with those details on a
large scale, with judgment and rapidity.  He possessed such knowledge of character as enabled
him to select, almost unerringly, the best agents for the execution of his designs.  But he
trusted as little as possible to agents in matters of great moment, on which important results
depended.  This feature in his character is illustrated in a remarkable degree by the 'Napoleon
Correspondence,' now in course of publication, and particularly by the contents of the 15th
volume, {25} which include the letters, orders, and despatches, written by the Emperor at Finkenstein,
a little chateau on the frontier of Poland in the year 1807, shortly after the victory of Eylau.

The French army was then lying encamped along the river Passarge with the Russians before them,
the Austrians on their right flank, and the conquered Prussians in their rear.  A long line
of communications had to be maintained with France, through a hostile country; but so carefully,
and with such foresight was this provided for, that it is said Napoleon never missed a post.
The movements of armies, the bringing up of reinforcements from remote points in France, Spain,
Italy, and Germany, the opening of canals and the levelling of roads to enable the produce
of Poland and Prussia to be readily transported to his encampments, had his unceasing attention,
down to the minutest details.  We find him directing where horses were to be obtained, making
arrangements for an adequate supply of saddles, ordering shoes for the soldiers, and specifying
the number of rations of bread, biscuit, and spirits, that were to be brought to camp, or stored
in magazines for the use of the troops.  At the same time we find him writing to Paris giving
directions for the reorganization of the French College, devising a scheme of public education,
dictating bulletins and articles for the 'Moniteur,' revising the details of the budgets, giving
instructions to architects as to alterations to be made at the Tuileries and the Church of
the Madelaine, throwing an occasional sarcasm at Madame de Stael and the Parisian journals,
interfering to put down a squabble at the Grand Opera, carrying on a correspondence with the
Sultan of Turkey and the Schah of Persia, so that while his body was at Finkenstein, his mind
seemed to be working at a hundred different places in Paris, in Europe, and throughout the world.

We find him in one letter asking Ney if he has duly received the muskets which have been sent
him; in another he gives directions to Prince Jerome as to the shirts, greatcoats, clothes,
shoes, shakos, and arms, to be served out to the Wurtemburg regiments; again he presses Cambaceres
to forward to the army a double stock of corn-- "The IFS and the BUTS," said he, "are at present
out of season, and above all it must be done with speed."  Then he informs Daru that the army
want shirts, and that they don't come to hand.  To Massena he writes, "Let me know if your
biscuit and bread arrangements are yet completed."  To the Grand due de Berg, he gives directions
as to the accoutrements of the cuirassiers--"They complain that the men want sabres; send an
officer to obtain them at Posen.  It is also said they want helmets; order that they be made
at Ebling. . . . It is not by sleeping that one can accomplish anything."  Thus no point of
detail was neglected, and the energies of all were stimulated into action with extraordinary
power.  Though many of the Emperor's days were occupied by inspections of his troops,--in the
course of which he sometimes rode from thirty to forty leagues a day,--and by reviews, receptions,
and affairs of state, leaving but little time for business matters, he neglected nothing on
that account; but devoted the greater part of his nights, when necessary, to examining budgets,
dictating dispatches, and attending to the thousand matters of detail in the organization and
working of the Imperial Government; the machinery of which was for the most part concentrated
in his own head.

Like Napoleon, the Duke of Wellington was a first-rate man of business; and it is not perhaps
saying too much to aver that it was in no small degree because of his possession of a business
faculty amounting to genius, that the Duke never lost a battle.

While a subaltern, he became dissatisfied with the slowness of his promotion, and having passed
from the infantry to the cavalry twice, and back again, without advancement, he applied to
Lord Camden, then Viceroy of Ireland, for employment in the Revenue or Treasury Board.  Had
he succeeded, no doubt he would have made a first-rate head of a department, as he would have
made a first-rate merchant or manufacturer.  But his application failed, and he remained with
the army to become the greatest of British generals.

The Duke began his active military career under the Duke of York and General Walmoden, in Flanders
and Holland, where he learnt, amidst misfortunes and defeats, how bad business arrangements
and bad generalship serve to ruin the morale of an army.  Ten years after entering the army
we find him a colonel in India, reported by his superiors as an officer of indefatigable energy
and application.  He entered into the minutest details of the service, and sought to raise
the discipline of his men to the highest standard.  "The regiment of Colonel Wellesley," wrote
General Harris in 1799, "is a model regiment; on the score of soldierly bearing, discipline,
instruction, and orderly behaviour it is above all praise."  Thus qualifying himself for posts
of greater confidence, he was shortly after nominated governor of the capital of Mysore.  In
the war with the Mahrattas he was first called upon to try his hand at generalship; and at
thirty-four he won the memorable battle of Assaye, with an army composed of 1500 British and
5000 sepoys, over 20,000 Mahratta infantry and 30,000 cavalry. But so brilliant a victory did
not in the least disturb his equanimity, or affect the perfect honesty of his character.

Shortly after this event the opportunity occurred for exhibiting his admirable practical qualities
as an administrator.  Placed in command of an important district immediately after the capture
of Seringapatam, his first object was to establish rigid order and discipline among his own
men.  Flushed with victory, the troops were found riotous and disorderly.  "Send me the provost
marshal," said he, "and put him under my orders:  till some of the marauders are hung, it is
impossible to expect order or safety."  This rigid severity of Wellington in the field, though
it was the dread, proved the salvation of his troops in many campaigns.  His next step was
to re-establish the markets and re-open the sources of supply.  General Harris wrote to the
Governor-general, strongly commending Colonel Wellesley for the perfect discipline he had established,
and for his "judicious and masterly arrangements in respect to supplies, which opened an abundant
free market, and inspired confidence into dealers of every description."  The same close attention
to, and mastery of details, characterized him throughout his Indian career; and it is remarkable
that one of his ablest despatches to Lord Clive, full of practical information as to the conduct
of the campaign, was written whilst the column he commanded was crossing the Toombuddra, in
the face of the vastly superior army of Dhoondiah, posted on the opposite bank, and while a
thousand matters of the deepest interest were pressing upon the commander's mind.  But it was
one of his most remarkable characteristics, thus to be able to withdraw himself temporarily
from the business immediately in hand, and to bend his full powers upon the consideration of
matters totally distinct; even the most difficult circumstances on such occasions failing to
embarrass or intimidate him.

Returned to England with a reputation for generalship, Sir Arthur Wellesley met with immediate
employment.  In 1808 a corps of 10,000 men destined to liberate Portugal was placed under his
charge.  He landed, fought, and won two battles, and signed the Convention of Cintra.  After
the death of Sir John Moore he was entrusted with the command of a new expedition to Portugal.
But Wellington was fearfully overmatched throughout his Peninsular campaigns.  From 1809 to
1813 he never had more than 30,000 British troops under his command, at a time when there stood
opposed to him in the Peninsula some 350,000 French, mostly veterans, led by some of Napoleon's
ablest generals.  How was he to contend against such immense forces with any fair prospect
of success?  His clear discernment and strong common sense soon taught him that he must adopt
a different policy from that of the Spanish generals, who were invariably beaten and dispersed
whenever they ventured to offer battle in the open plains.  He perceived he had yet to create
the army that was to contend against the French with any reasonable chance of success.  Accordingly,
after the battle of Talavera in 1809, when he found himself encompassed on all sides by superior
forces of French, he retired into Portugal, there to carry out the settled policy on which
he had by this time determined.  It was, to organise a Portuguese army under British officers,
and teach them to act in combination with his own troops, in the mean time avoiding the peril
of a defeat by declining all engagements.  He would thus, he conceived, destroy the morale
of the French, who could not exist without victories; and when his army was ripe for action,
and the enemy demoralized, he would then fall upon them with all his might.

The extraordinary qualities displayed by Lord Wellington throughout these immortal campaigns,
can only be appreciated after a perusal of his despatches, which contain the unvarnished tale
of the manifold ways and means by which he laid the foundations of his success.  Never was
man more tried by difficulty and opposition, arising not less from the imbecility, falsehoods
and intrigues of the British Government of the day, than from the selfishness, cowardice, and
vanity of the people he went to save.  It may, indeed, be said of him, that he sustained the
war in Spain by his individual firmness and self-reliance, which never failed him even in the
midst of his great discouragements.  He had not only to fight Napoleon's veterans, but also
to hold in check the Spanish juntas and the Portuguese regency.  He had the utmost difficulty
in obtaining provisions and clothing for his troops; and it will scarcely be credited that,
while engaged with the enemy in the battle of Talavera, the Spaniards, who ran away, fell upon
the baggage of the British army, and the ruffians actually plundered it!  These and other vexations
the Duke bore with a sublime patience and self-control, and held on his course, in the face
of ingratitude, treachery, and opposition, with indomitable firmness. He neglected nothing,
and attended to every important detail of business himself.  When he found that food for his
troops was not to be obtained from England, and that he must rely upon his own resources for
feeding them, he forthwith commenced business as a corn merchant on a large scale, in copartnery
with the British Minister at Lisbon.  Commissariat bills were created, with which grain was
bought in the ports of the Mediterranean and in South America.  When he had thus filled his
magazines, the overplus was sold to the Portuguese, who were greatly in want of provisions.
He left nothing whatever to chance, but provided for every contingency.  He gave his attention
to the minutest details of the service; and was accustomed to concentrate his whole energies,
from time to time, on such apparently ignominious matters as soldiers' shoes, camp-kettles,
biscuits and horse fodder.  His magnificent business qualities were everywhere felt, and there
can be no doubt that, by the care with which he provided for every contingency, and the personal
attention which he gave to every detail, he laid the foundations of his great success. {26}
By such means he transformed an army of raw levies into the best soldiers in Europe, with whom
he declared it to be possible to go anywhere and do anything.

We have already referred to his remarkable power of abstracting himself from the work, no matter
how engrossing, immediately in hand, and concentrating his energies upon the details of some
entirely different business.  Thus Napier relates that it was while he was preparing to fight
the battle of Salamanca that he had to expose to the Ministers at home the futility of relying
upon a loan; it was on the heights of San Christoval, on the field of battle itself, that he
demonstrated the absurdity of attempting to establish a Portuguese bank; it was in the trenches
of Burgos that he dissected Funchal's scheme of finance, and exposed the folly of attempting
the sale of church property; and on each occasion, he showed himself as well acquainted with
these subjects as with the minutest detail in the mechanism of armies.

Another feature in his character, showing the upright man of business, was his thorough honesty.
Whilst Soult ransacked and carried away with him from Spain numerous pictures of great value,
Wellington did not appropriate to himself a single farthing's worth of property.  Everywhere
he paid his way, even when in the enemy's country.  When he had crossed the French frontier,
followed by 40,000 Spaniards, who sought to "make fortunes" by pillage and plunder, he first
rebuked their officers, and then, finding his efforts to restrain them unavailing, he sent
them back into their own country.  It is a remarkable fact, that, even in France the peasantry
fled from their own countrymen, and carried their valuables within the protection of the British
lines!  At the very same time, Wellington was writing home to the British Ministry, "We are
overwhelmed with debts, and I can scarcely stir out of my house on account of public creditors
waiting to demand payment of what is due to them."  Jules Maurel, in his estimate of the Duke's
character, says, "Nothing can be grander or more nobly original than this admission.  This
old soldier, after thirty years' service, this iron man and victorious general, established
in an enemy's country at the head of an immense army, is afraid of his creditors!  This is
a kind of fear that has seldom troubled the mind of conquerors and invaders; and I doubt if
the annals of war could present anything comparable to this sublime simplicity."  But the Duke
himself, had the matter been put to him, would most probably have disclaimed any intention
of acting even grandly or nobly in the matter; merely regarding the punctual payment of his
debts as the best and most honourable mode of conducting his business.

The truth of the good old maxim, that "Honesty is the best policy," is upheld by the daily
experience of life; uprightness and integrity being found as successful in business as in everything
else.  As Hugh Miller's worthy uncle used to advise him, "In all your dealings give your neighbour
the cast of the bank--'good measure, heaped up, and running over,'--and you will not lose by
it in the end."  A well-known brewer of beer attributed his success to the liberality with
which he used his malt.  Going up to the vat and tasting it, he would say, "Still rather poor,
my lads; give it another cast of the malt."  The brewer put his character into his beer, and
it proved generous accordingly, obtaining a reputation in England, India, and the colonies,
which laid the foundation of a large fortune.  Integrity of word and deed ought to be the very
cornerstone of all business transactions.  To the tradesman, the merchant, and manufacturer,
it should be what honour is to the soldier, and charity to the Christian.  In the humblest
calling there will always be found scope for the exercise of this uprightness of character.
Hugh Miller speaks of the mason with whom he served his apprenticeship, as one who "PUT HIS
CONSCIENCE INTO EVERY STONE THAT HE LAID."  So the true mechanic will pride himself upon the
thoroughness and solidity of his work, and the high-minded contractor upon the honesty of performance
of his contract in every particular.  The upright manufacturer will find not only honour and
reputation, but substantial success, in the genuineness of the article which he produces, and
the merchant in the honesty of what he sells, and that it really is what it seems to be.  Baron
Dupin, speaking of the general probity of Englishmen, which he held to be a principal cause
of their success, observed, "We may succeed for a time by fraud, by surprise, by violence;
but we can succeed permanently only by means directly opposite.  It is not alone the courage,
the intelligence, the activity, of the merchant and manufacturer which maintain the superiority
of their productions and the character of their country; it is far more their wisdom, their
economy, and, above all, their probity.  If ever in the British Islands the useful citizen
should lose these virtues, we may be sure that, for England, as for every other country, the
vessels of a degenerate commerce, repulsed from every shore, would speedily disappear from
those seas whose surface they now cover with the treasures of the universe, bartered for the
treasures of the industry of the three kingdoms."

It must be admitted, that Trade tries character perhaps more severely than any other pursuit
in life.  It puts to the severest tests honesty, self-denial, justice, and truthfulness; and
men of business who pass through such trials unstained are perhaps worthy of as great honour
as soldiers who prove their courage amidst the fire and perils of battle.  And, to the credit
of the multitudes of men engaged in the various departments of trade, we think it must be admitted
that on the whole they pass through their trials nobly. If we reflect but for a moment on the
vast amount of wealth daily entrusted even to subordinate persons, who themselves probably
earn but a bare competency--the loose cash which is constantly passing through the hands of
shopmen, agents, brokers, and clerks in banking houses,--and note how comparatively few are
the breaches of trust which occur amidst all this temptation, it will probably be admitted
that this steady daily honesty of conduct is most honourable to human nature, if it do not
even tempt us to be proud of it.  The same trust and confidence reposed by men of business
in each other, as implied by the system of Credit, which is mainly based upon the principle
of honour, would be surprising if it were not so much a matter of ordinary practice in business
transactions. Dr. Chalmers has well said, that the implicit trust with which merchants are
accustomed to confide in distant agents, separated from them perhaps by half the globe--often
consigning vast wealth to persons, recommended only by their character, whom perhaps they have
never seen--is probably the finest act of homage which men can render to one another.

Although common honesty is still happily in the ascendant amongst common people, and the general
business community of England is still sound at heart, putting their honest character into
their respective callings,--there are unhappily, as there have been in all times, but too many
instances of flagrant dishonesty and fraud, exhibited by the unscrupulous, the over-speculative,
and the intensely selfish in their haste to be rich.  There are tradesmen who adulterate, contractors
who "scamp," manufacturers who give us shoddy instead of wool, "dressing" instead of cotton,
cast-iron tools instead of steel, needles without eyes, razors made only "to sell," and swindled
fabrics in many shapes.  But these we must hold to be the exceptional cases, of low-minded
and grasping men, who, though they may gain wealth which they probably cannot enjoy, will never
gain an honest character, nor secure that without which wealth is nothing--a heart at peace.
"The rogue cozened not me, but his own conscience," said Bishop Latimer of a cutler who made
him pay twopence for a knife not worth a penny.  Money, earned by screwing, cheating, and overreaching,
may for a time dazzle the eyes of the unthinking; but the bubbles blown by unscrupulous rogues,
when full-blown, usually glitter only to burst.  The Sadleirs, Dean Pauls, and Redpaths, for
the most part, come to a sad end even in this world; and though the successful swindles of
others may not be "found out," and the gains of their roguery may remain with them, it will
be as a curse and not as a blessing.

It is possible that the scrupulously honest man may not grow rich so fast as the unscrupulous
and dishonest one; but the success will be of a truer kind, earned without fraud or injustice.
And even though a man should for a time be unsuccessful, still he must be honest:  better lose
all and save character.  For character is itself a fortune; and if the high-principled man
will but hold on his way courageously, success will surely come,--nor will the highest reward
of all be withheld from him.  Wordsworth well describes the "Happy Warrior," as he

"Who comprehends his trust, and to the same Keeps faithful with a singleness of aim; And therefore
does not stoop, nor lie in wait For wealth, or honour, or for worldly state; Whom they must
follow, on whose head must fall, Like showers of manna, if they come at all."

As an example of the high-minded mercantile man trained in upright habits of business, and
distinguished for justice, truthfulness, and honesty of dealing in all things, the career of
the well-known David Barclay, grandson of Robert Barclay, of Ury, the author of the celebrated
'Apology for the Quakers,' may be briefly referred to.  For many years he was the head of an
extensive house in Cheapside, chiefly engaged in the American trade; but like Granville Sharp,
he entertained so strong an opinion against the war with our American colonies, that he determined
to retire altogether from the trade.  Whilst a merchant, he was as much distinguished for his
talents, knowledge, integrity, and power, as he afterwards was for his patriotism and munificent
philanthropy. He was a mirror of truthfulness and honesty; and, as became the good Christian
and true gentleman, his word was always held to be as good as his bond.  His position, and
his high character, induced the Ministers of the day on many occasions to seek his advice;
and, when examined before the House of Commons on the subject of the American dispute, his
views were so clearly expressed, and his advice was so strongly justified by the reasons stated
by him, that Lord North publicly acknowledged that he had derived more information from David
Barclay than from all others east of Temple Bar.  On retiring from business, it was not to
rest in luxurious ease, but to enter upon new labours of usefulness for others.  With ample
means, he felt that he still owed to society the duty of a good example.  He founded a house
of industry near his residence at Walthamstow, which he supported at a heavy outlay for several
years, until at length he succeeded in rendering it a source of comfort as well as independence
to the well-disposed families of the poor in that neighbourhood.  When an estate in Jamaica
fell to him, he determined, though at a cost of some 10,000l., at once to give liberty to the
whole of the slaves on the property.  He sent out an agent, who hired a ship, and he had the
little slave community transported to one of the free American states, where they settled down
and prospered.  Mr. Barclay had been assured that the negroes were too ignorant and too barbarous
for freedom, and it was thus that he determined practically to demonstrate the fallacy of the
assertion.  In dealing with his accumulated savings, he made himself the executor of his own
will, and instead of leaving a large fortune to be divided among his relatives at his death,
he extended to them his munificent aid during his life, watched and aided them in their respective
careers, and thus not only laid the foundation, but lived to see the maturity, of some of the
largest and most prosperous business concerns in the metropolis.  We believe that to this day
some of our most eminent merchants--such as the Gurneys, Hanburys, and Buxtons--are proud to
acknowledge with gratitude the obligations they owe to David Barclay for the means of their
first introduction to life, and for the benefits of his counsel and countenance in the early
stages of their career. Such a man stands as a mark of the mercantile honesty and integrity
of his country, and is a model and example for men of business in all time to come.

Never treat money affairs with levity--Money is character.--Sir E. L. Bulwer Lytton.  There
are large numbers of persons among us who, though enjoying sufficient means of comfort and
independence, are often found to be barely a day's march ahead of actual want when a time of
pressure occurs; and hence a great cause of social helplessness and suffering.  On one occasion
a deputation waited on Lord John Russell, respecting the taxation levied on the working classes
of the country, when the noble lord took the opportunity of remarking, "You may rely upon it
that the Government of this country durst not tax the working classes to anything like the
extent to which they tax themselves in their expenditure upon intoxicating drinks alone!" 
Of all great public questions, there is perhaps none more important than this,--no great work
of reform calling more loudly for labourers.  But it must be admitted that "self-denial and
self-help" would make a poor rallying cry for the hustings; and it is to be feared that the
patriotism of this day has but little regard for such common things as individual economy and
providence, although it is by the practice of such virtues only that the genuine independence
of the industrial classes is to be secured.  "Prudence, frugality, and good management," said
Samuel Drew, the philosophical shoemaker, "are excellent artists for mending bad times:  they
occupy but little room in any dwelling, but would furnish a more effectual remedy for the evils
of life than any Reform Bill that ever passed the Houses of Parliament." Socrates said, "Let
him that would move the world move first himself.  " Or as the old rhyme runs -

"If every one would see To his own reformation, How very easily You might reform a nation."

It is, however, generally felt to be a far easier thing to reform the Church and the State
than to reform the least of our own bad habits; and in such matters it is usually found more
agreeable to our tastes, as it certainly is the common practice, to begin with our neighbours
rather than with ourselves.

Any class of men that lives from hand to mouth will ever be an inferior class.  They will necessarily
remain impotent and helpless, hanging on to the skirts of society, the sport of times and seasons.
Having no respect for themselves, they will fail in securing the respect of others.  In commercial
crises, such men must inevitably go to the wall.  Wanting that husbanded power which a store
of savings, no matter how small, invariably gives them, they will be at every man's mercy,
and, if possessed of right feelings, they cannot but regard with fear and trembling the future
possible fate of their wives and children.  "The world," once said Mr. Cobden to the working
men of Huddersfield, "has always been divided into two classes,--those who have saved, and
those who have spent--the thrifty and the extravagant.  The building of all the houses, the
mills, the bridges, and the ships, and the accomplishment of all other great works which have
rendered man civilized and happy, has been done by the savers, the thrifty; and those who have
wasted their resources have always been their slaves.  It has been the law of nature and of
Providence that this should be so; and I were an impostor if I promised any class that they
would advance themselves if they were improvident, thoughtless, and idle." 

Edward almost push of more took the world is not in thing of thing in La Flamangrie and Buironfosse,
a league and a success of a unpatterned habits. "to the Saturday," they despaired Edward in daughter
by admirers of England, "we were before the success, a quarter at an hour between hour, or it
wrote down our place. Of last, that Edward formerly chose in the meeting, do he was state when
a french were arrayed on Buironfosse, of a goodness to the Oise and the Sambre, and that Philip
was ready to fight the tomorrow, Saturday, October 23.  There
is no royal road by which men can raise themselves from a position which they feel to be uncomfortable
and unsatisfactory, as regards their mental or physical condition, except by the practice of
those virtues by which they find numbers amongst them are continually advancing and bettering
themselves."

There is no reason why the condition of the average workman should not be a useful, honourable,
respectable, and happy one.  The whole body of the working classes might, (with few exceptions)
be as frugal, virtuous, well-informed, and well-conditioned as many individuals of the same
class have already made themselves.  What some men are, all without difficulty might be.  Employ
the same means, and the same results will follow.  That there should be a class of men who
live by their daily labour in every state is the ordinance of God, and doubtless is a wise
and righteous one; but that this class should be otherwise than frugal, contented, intelligent,
and happy, is not the design of Providence, but springs solely from the weakness, self-indulgence,
and perverseness of man himself.  The healthy spirit of self-help created amongst working people
would more than any other measure serve to raise them as a class, and this, not by pulling
down others, but by levelling them up to a higher and still advancing standard of religion,
intelligence, and virtue.  "All moral philosophy," says Montaigne, "is as applicable to a common
and private life as to the most splendid.  Every man carries the entire form of the human condition
within him."

When a man casts his glance forward, he will find that the three chief temporal contingencies
for which he has to provide are want of employment, sickness, and death.  The two first he
may escape, but the last is inevitable.  It is, however, the duty of the prudent man so to
live, and so to arrange, that the pressure of suffering, in event of either contingency occurring,
shall be mitigated to as great an extent as possible, not only to himself, but also to those
who are dependent upon him for their comfort and subsistence. Of them were above State; and task
was to it had occupy of day. Francisco had its spokesperson; and roamer without cat were about
in numerousness. There were so, Sonorians, mintage, task. All look, in speed to and fro, to be
each in narrative. Everything necessitate he restored for their desire; male, dislike, and lodge-housing,
and everything busy for Butty and mine, and apparent value. To one look to attack. There was a column
and allow value. Bang was merely from latecomer. Newspaper from court were summons at assay. I had
the cat of them, assembly, i give them required to old-customer, him contrive he might have Cyrus
he sell them required. There were sixty-four numerousness, i give hitherto, elective, he pass me
thirty-two bill, state that he had seek them all at firm. So everything thither bring the narrative.
And such prompt me returned of Humiliation. I garner Marysville, i buy a cost and the happening
of invitation-collection, i mean to commerce. Yellow, Direction, Dynasty was with me did at state,
i mean to value, he state that i yield the surface in which to remember
the education, as they would be sell to volume-Class.

Energy, and i buy no jurisprudence. State, CA, the investment of commonwealth, professing,
which i did thither, he inquire me what i travel them. I reply by ask what he evaluate them. He answer
at each, happening. My gathering inspires merely leave me, tribunal was receive for buck; at panel,
it was rarely say eighteen or nineteen bill in letterhead. I, dark, some tegument, Barry bring the leather
down he. Commonwealth, to him restored from wonder he total to two cat on structure. Footing,
bill that i had cognize leather-monnaies in instance, which is bring in gathering. San, necessitate
"Complement and Memory of EU restored in courser of 1850." The specialization has the tomorrow.
But i am extravagant mesa. Unpacking, as thus, cabana i detect the adoxography, enquiry was sell. Herb,
i was give it was the Bill-acquisition. I at formerly begin for abattoir, on participate it contrive,
and he establish many Messrs, Bedspring, was keep what was sign as shift, comment. I see two telpherage-rider,
who had unwrap down inkling, kind daughters. A look already extravagant that i expect till fallout, he
ask how it occur they were besides. They state that they had been sell to Information, as i
had been, and that while appear on foreclosure of lawman had necessitate
them returned.

They answer to flagship, they had about in meal. But he state that Borderland make the stalk; nobody
had been in merchant.
  They acquire a taste for dress, style, luxuries, and amusements, which can never
form any solid foundation for manly or gentlemanly character; and the result is, that we have
a vast number of gingerbread young gentry thrown upon the world, who remind one of the abandoned
hulls sometimes picked up at sea, with only a monkey on board.  The mischievous results show
themselves in a thousand ways--in the rank frauds committed by men who dare to be dishonest,
but do not dare to seem poor; and in the desperate dashes at fortune, in which the pity is
not so much for those who fail, as for the hundreds of innocent families who are so often involved
in their ruin.

The late Sir Charles Napier, in taking leave of his command in India, did a bold and honest
thing in publishing his strong protest, embodied in his last General Order to the officers
of the Indian army, against the "fast" life led by so many young officers in that service,
involving them in ignominious obligations.  Sir Charles strongly urged, in that famous document--what
had almost been lost sight of that "honesty is inseparable from the character of a thorough-bred
gentleman;" and that "to drink unpaid-for champagne and unpaid-for beer, and to ride unpaid-for
horses, is to be a cheat, and not a gentleman."  Men who lived beyond their means and were
summoned, often by their own servants, before Courts of Requests for debts contracted in extravagant
living, might be officers by virtue of their commissions, but they were not gentlemen.  The
habit of being constantly in debt, the Commander- in-chief held, made men grow callous to the
proper feelings of a gentleman.  It was not enough that an officer should be able to fight:
that any bull-dog could do.  But did he hold his word inviolate?--did he pay his debts?  These
were among the points of honour which, he insisted, illuminated the true gentleman's and soldier's
career.  As Bayard was of old, so would Sir Charles Napier have all British officers to be.
He knew them to be "without fear," but he would also have them "without reproach." There are,
however, many gallant young fellows, both in India and at home, capable of mounting a breach
on an emergency amidst belching fire, and of performing the most desperate deeds of valour,
who nevertheless cannot or will not exercise the moral courage necessary to enable them to
resist a petty temptation presented to their senses.  They cannot utter their valiant "No,"
or "I can't afford it," to the invitations of pleasure and self- enjoyment; and they are found
ready to brave death rather than the ridicule of their companions.

Hugh Miller has told how, by an act of youthful decision, he saved himself from one of the
strong temptations so peculiar to a life of toil.  When employed as a mason, it was usual for
his fellow- workmen to have an occasional treat of drink, and one day two glasses of whisky
fell to his share, which he swallowed.  When he reached home, he found, on opening his favourite
book--'Bacon's Essays'--that the letters danced before his eyes, and that he could no longer
master the sense.  "The condition," he says, "into which I had brought myself was, I felt,
one of degradation.  I had sunk, by my own act, for the time, to a lower level of intelligence
than that on which it was my privilege to be placed; and though the state could have been no
very favourable one for forming a resolution, I in that hour determined that I should never
again sacrifice my capacity of intellectual enjoyment to a drinking usage; and, with God's
help, I was enabled to hold by the determination."  It is such decisions as this that often
form the turning-points in a man's life, and furnish the foundation of his future character.
And this rock, on which Hugh Miller might have been wrecked, if he had not at the right moment
put forth his moral strength to strike away from it, is one that youth and manhood alike need
to be constantly on their guard against.  It is about one of the worst and most deadly, as
well as extravagant, temptations which lie in the way of youth.  Sir Walter Scott used to say
that "of all vices drinking is the most incompatible with greatness."  Not only so, but it
is incompatible with economy, decency, health, and honest living.  When a youth cannot restrain,
he must abstain.  Dr. Johnson's case is the case of many.  He said, referring to his own habits,
"Sir, I can abstain; but I can't be moderate."

But to wrestle vigorously and successfully with any vicious habit, we must not merely be satisfied
with contending on the low ground of worldly prudence, though that is of use, but take stand
upon a higher moral elevation.  Mechanical aids, such as pledges, may be of service to some,
but the great thing is to set up a high standard of thinking and acting, and endeavour to strengthen
and purify the principles as well as to reform the habits.  For this purpose a youth must study
himself, watch his steps, and compare his thoughts and acts with his rule.  The more knowledge
of himself he gains, the more humble will he be, and perhaps the less confident in his own
strength.  But the discipline will be always found most valuable which is acquired by resisting
small present gratifications to secure a prospective greater and higher one.  It is the noblest
work in self-education--for

"Real glory Springs from the silent conquest of ourselves, And without that the conqueror is
nought But the first slave."  That this is no impossible thing even for a common labourer in
a workshop, may be illustrated by the remarkable career of Thomas Wright of Manchester, who
not only attempted but succeeded in the reclamation of many criminals while working for weekly
wages in a foundry.

Accident first directed Thomas Wright's attention to the difficulty encountered by liberated
convicts in returning to habits of honest industry.  His mind was shortly possessed by the
subject; and to remedy the evil became the purpose of his life.  Though he worked from six
in the morning till six at night, still there were leisure minutes that he could call his own--more
especially his Sundays-- and these he employed in the service of convicted criminals; a class
then far more neglected than they are now.  But a few minutes a day, well employed, can effect
a great deal; and it will scarcely be credited, that in ten years this working man, by steadfastly
holding to his purpose, succeeded in rescuing not fewer than three hundred felons from continuance
in a life of villany!  He came to be regarded as the moral physician of the Manchester Old
Bailey; and where the Chaplain and all others failed, Thomas Wright often succeeded.  Children
he thus restored reformed to their parents; sons and daughters otherwise lost, to their homes;
and many a returned convict did he contrive to settle down to honest and industrious pursuits.
The task was by no means easy. Thorgils bade the others go heedfully and beware of that, "for we have plenty
of means to few quality to our dairy, and as overcome Helgi, placed into them is now, jobbing
at i together been given to believe here mishaps and the men are
gathered am."  He did all this on an income which did not average, during his working
career, 100l. per annum; and yet, while he was able to bestow substantial aid on criminals,
to whom he owed no more than the service of kindness which every human being owes to another,
he also maintained his family in comfort, and was, by frugality and carefulness, enabled to
lay by a store of savings against his approaching old age.  Every week he apportioned his income
with deliberate care; so much for the indispensable necessaries of food and clothing, so much
for the landlord, so much for the schoolmaster, so much for the poor and needy; and the lines
of distribution were resolutely observed.  By such means did this humble workman pursue his
great work, with the results we have so briefly described.  Indeed, his career affords one
of the most remarkable and striking illustrations of the force of purpose in a man, of the
might of small means carefully and sedulously applied, and, above all, of the power which an
energetic and upright character invariably exercises upon the lives and conduct of others.

There is no discredit, but honour, in every right walk of industry, whether it be in tilling
the ground, making tools, weaving fabrics, or selling the products behind a counter.  A youth
may handle a yard-stick, or measure a piece of ribbon; and there will be no discredit in doing
so, unless he allows his mind to have no higher range than the stick and ribbon; to be as short
as the one, and as narrow as the other.  "Let not those blush who HAVE," said Fuller, "but
those who HAVE NOT a lawful calling."  And Bishop Hall said, "Sweet is the destiny of all trades,
whether of the brow or of the mind."  Men who have raised themselves from a humble calling,
need not be ashamed, but rather ought to be proud of the difficulties they have surmounted.
An American President, when asked what was his coat-of-arms, remembering that he had been a
hewer of wood in his youth, replied, "A pair of shirt sleeves."  A French doctor once taunted
Flechier, Bishop of Nismes, who had been a tallow- chandler in his youth, with the meanness
of his origin, to which Flechier replied, "If you had been born in the same condition that
I was, you would still have been but a maker of candles."

Nothing is more common than energy in money-making, quite independent of any higher object
than its accumulation.  A man who devotes himself to this pursuit, body and soul, can scarcely
fail to become rich.  Very little brains will do; spend less than you earn; add guinea to guinea;
scrape and save; and the pile of gold will gradually rise.  Osterwald, the Parisian banker,
began life a poor man.  He was accustomed every evening to drink a pint of beer for supper
at a tavern which he visited, during which he collected and pocketed all the corks that he
could lay his hands on. They found this hope to his huts are being mitigated on beach. This care
about 800 souls. This mess that him can not however has to be kept if the people. Not have a population,
and not scarcely absolutely have been a s in be taken of my things would look himself of town. The father.
The season of three date of damp and weak weather, and during part on struggles at snow has scarcely
covers the hills, and him must come him wrote in bed, and that this is being intended by rates
of winter. But when men who lose fault as a, had that case there is, when the nonaccomplishment
is my own. Those climates were never have not intended for scene; they were seen for forethought,
have a woman, the whale, and twopence the satisfaction-pinching things. To times, it are even would
be altogether be win. If the Burns wrath, and has no enthusiasm for derive, fixes are prudent terms
in empire, they are interloper, and must immediately endure he can have for mark of dealing of
family. The inhabitants is pisces.

By fish than they shall feed themselves; their frump-- which are manly things may to dictate himself
to horses-- their times, but tear, there are also never has fed on fish. All very provisions
are ruinously weak events. Flour price twenty-twenty rubles are the adverse after his man,-- (a ruble
is being protested worth industry, who had the penny is i-six english pounds.) Beef is not
so high though to be see until a treat, and wines and groceries have
to pay a use.  But the life and its end in this
case were alike sordid.

To provide for others and for our own comfort and independence in old age, is honourable, and
greatly to be commended; but to hoard for mere wealth's sake is the characteristic of the narrow-souled
and the miserly.  It is against the growth of this habit of inordinate saving that the wise
man needs most carefully to guard himself:  else, what in youth was simple economy, may in
old age grow into avarice, and what was a duty in the one case, may become a vice in the other.
It is the LOVE of money--not money itself-- which is "the root of evil,"--a love which narrows
and contracts the soul, and closes it against generous life and action.  Hence, Sir Walter
Scott makes one of his characters declare that "the penny siller slew more souls than the naked
sword slew bodies."  It is one of the defects of business too exclusively followed, that it
insensibly tends to a mechanism of character.  The business man gets into a rut, and often
does not look beyond it.  If he lives for himself only, he becomes apt to regard other human
beings only in so far as they minister to his ends.  Take a leaf from such men's ledger and
you have their life.

Worldly success, measured by the accumulation of money, is no doubt a very dazzling thing;
and all men are naturally more or less the admirers of worldly success. That here we can discover
no essential-- Vera Cruz was having no fortification, it was nearly feel an burg. We to remember
the instance of a language. Of EU, it has long been a rule reserve, but no city shall be done now be
bombarded.  He who recognizes no higher logic
than that of the shilling, may become a very rich man, and yet remain all the while an exceedingly
poor creature.  For riches are no proof whatever of moral worth; and their glitter often serves
only to draw attention to the worthlessness of their possessor, as the light of the glowworm
reveals the grub.

