I trust I shall not be considered as offending the memory of a kind and worthy man, if I mention
a little trait of character which occurred in Mr. Davidson's last illness. I use the words
of the excellent clergyman who attended him, who gave the account to a reverend gentleman of
the same persuasion:--

'I read to Mr. Davidson the very suitable and interesting truths you addressed to him. He listened
to them with great seriousness, and has uniformly displayed a deep concern about his soul's
salvation. He died on the first Sabbath of the year (1820); an apoplectic stroke deprived him
in an instant of all sensation, but happily his brother was at his bedside, for he had detained
him from the meeting-house that day to be near him, although he felt himself not much worse
than usual. So you have got the last little Mustard that the hand of Dandie Dinmont bestowed.

'His ruling passion was strong even on the eve of death. Mr. Baillie's fox-hounds had started
a fox opposite to his window a few weeks ago, and as soon as he heard the sound of the dogs
his eyes glistened; he insisted on getting out of bed, and with much difficulty got to the
window and there enjoyed the fun, as he called it. When I came down to ask for him, he said,
"he had seen Reynard, but had not seen his death. If it had been the will of Providence," he
added, "I would have liked to have been after him; but I am glad that I got to the window,
and am thankful for what I saw, for it has done me a great deal of good." Notwithstanding these
eccentricities (adds the sensible and liberal clergyman), I sincerely hope and believe he has
gone to a better world, and better company and enjoyments.'

If some part of this little narrative may excite a smile, it is one which is consistent with
the most perfect respect for the simple-minded invalid and his kind and judicious religious
instructor, who, we hope, will not be displeased with our giving, we trust, a correct edition
of an anecdote which has been pretty generally circulated. The race of Pepper and Mustard are
in the highest estimation at this day, not only for vermin-killing, but for intelligence and
fidelity. Those who, like the author, possess a brace of them, consider them as very desirable
companions.

NOTE 4, p. 232

The cleek here intimated is the iron hook, or hooks, depending from the chimney of a Scottish
cottage, on which the pot is suspended when boiling. The same appendage is often called the
crook. The salmon is usually dried by hanging it up, after being split and rubbed with salt,
in the smoke of the turf fire above the cleeks, where it is said to 'reist,' that preparation
being so termed. The salmon thus preserved is eaten as a delicacy, under the name of kipper,
a luxury to which Dr. Redgill has given his sanction as an ingredient of the Scottish breakfast.--See
the excellent novel entitled MARRIAGE.

NOTE 5, p. 234

The distinction of individuals by nicknames when they possess no property is still common on
the Border, and indeed necessary, from the number of persons having the same name. In the small
village of Lustruther, in Roxburghshire, there dwelt, in the memory of man, four inhabitants
called Andrew, or Dandie, Oliver. They were distinguished as Dandie Eassil-gate, Dandie Wassilgate,
Dandie Thumbie, and Dandie Dumbie. The two first had their names from living eastward and westward
in the street of the village; the third from something peculiar in the conformation of his
thumb; the fourth from his taciturn habits.

