A boy on a farm is nothing without his pets; at least a dog, and probably rabbits, chickens,
ducks, and guinea-hens. A guinea-hen suits a boy. It is entirely useless, and makes a more
disagreeable noise than a Chinese gong. I once domesticated a young fox which a neighbor had
caught. It is a mistake to suppose the fox cannot be tamed. Jacko was a very clever little
animal, and behaved, in all respects, with propriety. He kept Sunday as well as any day, and
all the ten commandments that he could understand. He was a very graceful playfellow, and seemed
to have an affection for me. He lived in a wood-pile in the dooryard, and when I lay down at
the entrance to his house and called him, he would come out and sit on his tail and lick my
face just like a grown person. I taught him a great many tricks and all the virtues. That year
I had a large number of hens, and Jacko went about among them with the most perfect indifference,
never looking on them to lust after them, as I could see, and never touching an egg or a feather.
So excellent was his reputation that I would have trusted him in the hen-roost in the dark
without counting the hens. In short, he was domesticated, and I was fond of him and very proud
of him, exhibiting him to all our visitors as an example of what affectionate treatment would
do in subduing the brute instincts. I preferred him to my dog, whom I had, with much patience,
taught to go up a long hill alone and surround the cows, and drive them home from the remote
pasture. He liked the fun of it at first, but by and by he seemed to get the notion that it
was a "chore," and when I whistled for him to go for the cows, he would turn tail and run the
other way, and the more I whistled and threw stones at him, the faster he would run. His name
was Turk, and I should have sold him if he had not been the kind of dog that nobody will buy.
I suppose he was not a cow-dog, but what they call a sheep-dog. At least, when he got big enough,
he used to get into the pasture and chase the sheep to death. That was the way he got into
trouble, and lost his valuable life. A dog is of great use on a farm, and that is the reason
a boy likes him. He is good to bite peddlers and small children, and run out and yelp at wagons
that pass by, and to howl all night when the moon shines. And yet, if I were a boy again, the
first thing I would have should be a dog; for dogs are great companions, and as active and
spry as a boy at doing nothing. They are also good to bark at woodchuck-holes.

A good dog will bark at a woodchuck-hole long after the animal has retired to a remote part
of his residence, and escaped by another hole. This deceives the woodchuck. Some of the most
delightful hours of my life have been spent in hiding and watching the hole where the dog was
not. What an exquisite thrill ran through my frame when the timid nose appeared, was withdrawn,
poked out again, and finally followed by the entire animal, who looked cautiously about, and
then hopped away to feed on the clover. At that moment I rushed in, occupied the "home base,"
yelled to Turk, and then danced with delight at the combat between the spunky woodchuck and
the dog. They were about the same size, but science and civilization won the day. I did not
reflect then that it would have been more in the interest of civilization if the woodchuck
had killed the dog. I do not know why it is that boys so like to hunt and kill animals; but
the excuse that I gave in this case for the murder was, that the woodchuck ate the clover and
trod it down, and, in fact, was a woodchuck. It was not till long after that I learned with
surprise that he is a rodent mammal, of the species Arctomys monax, is called at the West a
ground-hog, and is eaten by people of color with great relish.

But I have forgotten my beautiful fox. Jacko continued to deport himself well until the young
chickens came; he was actually cured of the fox vice of chicken-stealing. He used to go with
me about the coops, pricking up his ears in an intelligent manner, and with a demure eye and
the most virtuous droop of the tail. Charming fox! If he had held out a little while longer,
I should have put him into a Sunday-school book. But I began to miss chickens. They disappeared
mysteriously in the night. I would not suspect Jacko at first, for he looked so honest, and
in the daytime seemed to be as much interested in the chickens as I was. But one morning, when
I went to call him, I found feathers at the entrance of his hole,--chicken feathers. He couldn't
deny it. He was a thief. His fox nature had come out under severe temptation. And he died an
unnatural death. He had a thousand virtues and one crime. But that crime struck at the foundation
of society. He deceived and stole; he was a liar and a thief, and no pretty ways could hide
the fact. His intelligent, bright face couldn't save him. If he had been honest, he might have
grown up to be a large, ornamental fox.

V. THE BOY'S SUNDAY

Sunday in the New England hill towns used to begin Saturday night at sundown; and the sun is
lost to sight behind the hills there before it has set by the almanac. I remember that we used
to go by the almanac Saturday night and by the visible disappearance Sunday night. On Saturday
night we very slowly yielded to the influences of the holy time, which were settling down upon
us, and submitted to the ablutions which were as inevitable as Sunday; but when the sun (and
it never moved so slow) slid behind the hills Sunday night, the effect upon the watching boy
was like a shock from a galvanic battery; something flashed through all his limbs and set them
in motion, and no "play" ever seemed so sweet to him as that between sundown and dark Sunday
night. This, however, was on the supposition that he had conscientiously kept Sunday, and had
not gone in swimming and got drowned. This keeping of Saturday night instead of Sunday night
we did not very well understand; but it seemed, on the whole, a good thing that we should rest
Saturday night when we were tired, and play Sunday night when we were rested. I supposed, however,
that it was an arrangement made to suit the big boys who wanted to go "courting" Sunday night.
Certainly they were not to be blamed, for Sunday was the day when pretty girls were most fascinating,
and I have never since seen any so lovely as those who used to sit in the gallery and in the
singers' seats in the bare old meeting-houses.

Sunday to the country farmer-boy was hardly the relief that it was to the other members of
the family; for the same chores must be done that day as on others, and he could not divert
his mind with whistling, hand-springs, or sending the dog into the river after sticks. He had
to submit, in the first place, to the restraint of shoes and stockings. He read in the Old
Testament that when Moses came to holy ground, he put off his shoes; but the boy was obliged
to put his on, upon the holy day, not only to go to meeting, but while he sat at home. Only
the emancipated country-boy, who is as agile on his bare feet as a young kid, and rejoices
in the pressure of the warm soft earth, knows what a hardship it is to tie on stiff shoes.
The monks who put peas in their shoes as a penance do not suffer more than the country-boy
in his penitential Sunday shoes. I recall the celerity with which he used to kick them off
at sundown.

Sunday morning was not an idle one for the farmer-boy. He must rise tolerably early, for the
cows were to be milked and driven to pasture; family prayers were a little longer than on other
days; there were the Sunday-school verses to be relearned, for they did not stay in mind over
night; perhaps the wagon was to be greased before the neighbors began to drive by; and the
horse was to be caught out of the pasture, ridden home bareback, and harnessed.

This catching the horse, perhaps two of them, was very good fun usually, and would have broken
the Sunday if the horse had not been wanted for taking the family to meeting. It was so peaceful
and still in the pasture on Sunday morning; but the horses were never so playful, the colts
never so frisky. Round and round the lot the boy went calling, in an entreating Sunday voice,
"Jock, jock, jock, jock," and shaking his salt-dish, while the horses, with heads erect, and
shaking tails and flashing heels, dashed from corner to corner, and gave the boy a pretty good
race before he could coax the nose of one of them into his dish. The boy got angry, and came
very near saying "dum it," but he rather enjoyed the fun, after all.

The boy remembers how his mother's anxiety was divided between the set of his turn-over collar,
the parting of his hair, and his memory of the Sunday-school verses; and what a wild confusion
there was through the house in getting off for meeting, and how he was kept running hither
and thither, to get the hymn-book, or a palm-leaf fan, or the best whip, or to pick from the
Sunday part of the garden the bunch of caraway-seed. Already the deacon's mare, with a wagon-load
of the deacon's folks, had gone shambling past, head and tail drooping, clumsy hoofs kicking
up clouds of dust, while the good deacon sat jerking the reins, in an automatic way, and the
"womenfolks" patiently saw the dust settle upon their best summer finery. Wagon after wagon
went along the sandy road, and when our boy's family started, they became part of a long procession,
which sent up a mile of dust and a pungent, if not pious smell of buffalo-robes. There were
fiery horses in the trail which had to be held in, for it was neither etiquette nor decent
to pass anybody on Sunday. It was a great delight to the farmer-boy to see all this procession
of horses, and to exchange sly winks with the other boys, who leaned over the wagon-seats for
that purpose. Occasionally a boy rode behind, with his back to the family, and his pantomime
was always some thing wonderful to see, and was considered very daring and wicked.

The meeting-house which our boy remembers was a high, square building, without a steeple. Within
it had a lofty pulpit, with doors underneath and closets where sacred things were kept, and
where the tithing-men were supposed to imprison bad boys. The pews were square, with seats
facing each other, those on one side low for the children, and all with hinges, so that they
could be raised when the congregation stood up for prayers and leaned over the backs of the
pews, as horses meet each other across a pasture fence. After prayers these seats used to be
slammed down with a long-continued clatter, which seemed to the boys about the best part of
the exercises. The galleries were very high, and the singers' seats, where the pretty girls
sat, were the most conspicuous of all. To sit in the gallery away from the family, was a privilege
not often granted to the boy. The tithing-man, who carried a long rod and kept order in the
house, and out-doors at noontime, sat in the gallery, and visited any boy who whispered or
found curious passages in the Bible and showed them to another boy. It was an awful moment
when the bushy-headed tithing-man approached a boy in sermon-time. The eyes of the whole congregation
were on him, and he could feel the guilt ooze out of his burning face.

At noon was Sunday-school, and after that, before the afternoon service, in summer, the boys
had a little time to eat their luncheon together at the watering-trough, where some of the
elders were likely to be gathered, talking very solemnly about cattle; or they went over to
a neighboring barn to see the calves; or they slipped off down the roadside to a place where
they could dig sassafras or the root of the sweet-flag, roots very fragrant in the mind of
many a boy with religious associations to this day. There was often an odor of sassafras in
the afternoon service. It used to stand in my mind as a substitute for the Old Testament incense
of the Jews. Something in the same way the big bass-viol in the choir took the place of "David's
harp of solemn sound."

The going home from meeting was more cheerful and lively than the coming to it. There was all
the bustle of getting the horses out of the sheds and bringing them round to the meeting-house
steps. At noon the boys sometimes sat in the wagons and swung the whips without cracking them:
now it was permitted to give them a little snap in order to bring the horses up in good style;
and the boy was rather proud of the horse if it pranced a little while the timid "women-folks"
were trying to get in. The boy had an eye for whatever life and stir there was in a New England
Sunday. He liked to drive home fast. The old house and the farm looked pleasant to him. There
was an extra dinner when they reached home, and a cheerful consciousness of duty performed
made it a pleasant dinner. Long before sundown the Sunday-school book had been read, and the
boy sat waiting in the house with great impatience the signal that the "day of rest" was over.
A boy may not be very wicked, and yet not see the need of "rest." Neither his idea of rest
nor work is that of older farmers.

VI. THE GRINDSTONE OF LIFE

If there is one thing more than another that hardens the lot of the farmer-boy, it is the grindstone.
Turning grindstones to grind scythes is one of those heroic but unobtrusive occupations for
which one gets no credit. It is a hopeless kind of task, and, however faithfully the crank
is turned, it is one that brings little reputation. There is a great deal of poetry about haying--I
mean for those not engaged in it. One likes to hear the whetting of the scythes on a fresh
morning and the response of the noisy bobolink, who always sits upon the fence and superintends
the cutting of the dew-laden grass. There is a sort of music in the "swish" and a rhythm in
the swing of the scythes in concert. The boy has not much time to attend to it, for it is lively
business "spreading" after half a dozen men who have only to walk along and lay the grass low,
while the boy has the whole hay-field on his hands. He has little time for the poetry of haying,
as he struggles along, filling the air with the wet mass which he shakes over his head, and
picking his way with short legs and bare feet amid the short and freshly cut stubble.

But if the scythes cut well and swing merrily, it is due to the boy who turned the grindstone.
Oh, it was nothing to do, just turn the grindstone a few minutes for this and that one before
breakfast; any "hired man" was authorized to order the boy to turn the grindstone. How they
did bear on, those great strapping fellows! Turn, turn, turn, what a weary go it was. For my
part, I used to like a grindstone that "wabbled" a good deal on its axis, for when I turned
it fast, it put the grinder on a lively lookout for cutting his hands, and entirely satisfied
his desire that I should "turn faster." It was some sport to make the water fly and wet the
grinder, suddenly starting up quickly and surprising him when I was turning very slowly. I
used to wish sometimes that I could turn fast enough to make the stone fly into a dozen pieces.
Steady turning is what the grinders like, and any boy who turns steadily, so as to give an
even motion to the stone, will be much praised, and will be in demand. I advise any boy who
desires to do this sort of work to turn steadily. If he does it by jerks and in a fitful manner,
the "hired men" will be very apt to dispense with his services and turn the grindstone for
each other.

