Tuesday, October 28th.--Weather cloudy; wind light from the north, hauling to the eastward.
The heavy sea, from the effects of the gale yesterday, continued all day rolling and tumbling
us about, and keeping the deck flooded with water. In the morning watch descried a brig running
off to the southward. She being some distance off, and running in the wrong direction, we did
not chase. Soon afterwards another sail was reported to the westward, standing in our direction;
shaped a course to head her off, and at 11 A.M., having approached her within half a mile,
hoisted the English blue. The stranger showing United States colours, we hoisted our own, and
hove him to with a gun. Brought the master on board with his papers, and finding the cargo
condemnable, got the crew on board, fired the ship, and filled away.

The prize proved to be the barque Lauretta, of Boston, from New York, for Madeira and the Mediterranean.
Received papers as late as the 24th. The intelligence of our captures (as late as the Brilliant)
seems to have created great alarm for the safety of commerce in New York.

CASE OF THE LAURETTA.

This ship being under American colours, with an American (U.S.) register, no question arises
as to the ship. There are two shippers of the cargo, Messrs. Chamberlain, Phelps, and Co.,
and Mr. H.J. Burden, both houses of New York city. Chamberlain, Phelps, and Co. ship 1424 barrels
of flour, and a lot of pipe staves, to be delivered at Gibraltar or Messina, to their own order;
and 225 kegs of nails to be delivered at Messina, to Mariano Castarelli. The bill of lading
for the flour and staves has the following indorsement, sworn to before a notary: "State, city
and county of New York: Louis Contenein being duly sworn, says, that he is a clerk with Chamberlain,
Phelps, and Co., and that part of the maize in the within bill of lading, is the property of
subjects of the King of Italy." This certificate is of no force or effect for its generality;
it points to no one as the owner of the merchandise, and no person could claim it under the
certificate. See 3rd Phillimore, 596. Farther: the property is consigned to the order of the
shipper. The title, therefore, remains in him, and cannot be divested in transitu. See 3rd
Phillimore, 610-12. The contingent destination of this property, too, shows that it was property
for a market. It was to be delivered either at Gibraltar or Messina, as the shipper might determine--probably
on advices by steamer, before the ship should reach her destination. She was to stop, as we
have seen, at Madeira, which would give ample time for the decision.

The bill of lading for the 225 kegs of nails has a similar indorsement, except that it is asserted
that the whole of the property belongs to subjects of the King of Italy. It is not sworn that
the property belongs to Castarelli, the consignee, and for aught that appears, Castarelli is
the agent of the shipper to receive this consignment on his, the shipper's account. The presumption
being, that notwithstanding a consignment in due form by an enemy shipper to a neutral, the
property is enemy's property, until the contrary be shown. The consignment alone does not show
the property to be vested in Castarelli, and the certificate does not indicate him as the owner.
Although Castarelli could demand possession of the goods, under this consignment, he could
not claim to hold them as his property under the certificate. There is, therefore, no evidence
to show that he is not the mere agent of the shipper. What renders this consideration still
more clear is, that if the goods had really belonged to Castarelli, it would have been so stated
in the certificate. Why say that the goods belonged to "subjects of the King of Italy," when
the consignee was the real owner?

The property shipped by H. Jas. Burden consists of 998 barrels of flour and 290 boxes of herrings,
and is consigned to Charles B. Blandly, Esq., at Funchal, Madeira. The shipper, H.J. Burden,
makes the following affidavit before the British consul in New York, to wit: "That all and
singular the goods specified in the annexed bill of lading, were shipped by H.J. Burden, in
the barque Lauretta, for and on account of H.J. Burden, subject of Her Britannic Majesty."
Now, Burden may be a very good subject of Her Britannic Majesty, but he describes himself as
of 42 Beaver Street, New York, and seems to lose sight of the fact, that his domicile, for
the purposes of trade, in the enemy's country, makes him an enemy, quoad all his transactions
in that country. Further: if the H.J. Burden, the shipper, is not one and the same person with
the H.J. Burden for whom the property is claimed, then there is nothing in the papers to show
that property is vested in the latter, since it is not consigned to him, nor is it shown that
the consignee, Charles B. Blandly, Esq., is his agent. The presumption, in the absence of proof,
is, that the consignee is the agent of the shipper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wednesday, October 29th.--* * * * At 10 A.M. hove to; let down the propeller, and put the ship
under steam. Chased and overhauled a Dutch barque, and towards nightfall came up with the United
States brigantine, Baron de Custine, from Bangor, with lumber for Cardenas. The vessel being
old, and of little value, I released her on ransom bond, and converted her into a cartel, sending
some forty-five prisoners on board of her, the crews of the last three ships burned.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Disappointment--Out of the track--The Levi Starbuck--Fresh vegetables --News--The other side
of the case--Kindness repaid--The T.B. Wales--A family--Volunteers--In man-of-war trim.

The month of October went out as it came in with severe and blustering weather. The Alabama
was still upwards of two hundred miles from New York, and it seemed as though a change would
become necessary in her plans. Ever since starting upon his adventurous cruise, it had been
a favorite scheme with Captain Semmes to make his appearance off this the very chief of the
enemy's ports, and, if not strong enough actually to threaten the place itself, at all events
to make a few captures within sight of the capital city of the North. It had been, therefore,
a special disappointment to find himself baffled by a continued succession of hostile winds
and contrary currents; and even the brilliant success that had thus far attended him in the
capture of twenty-one vessels and the destruction of property to very nearly a million of dollars,
seemed hardly to compensate for the failure of his pet project.

It was fast becoming evident, however, that the scheme for putting in an appearance off New
York must be abandoned, at all events for the present; and on the 30th October the chief engineer
was consulted as to the amount of coal remaining in the bunkers. The report was unfavorable.
Four days' fuel only was left; and it was clear that even had the vessel been nearer than she
was to her intended cruising ground, this would have been rather a short supply with which
to venture on so dangerous an experiment. Reluctantly, therefore, the scheme was relinquished,
the fires let down, propeller hoisted up again, and sail made to the southward and eastward
en route for the coal depôt.

The ship was now out of the track of commerce, and for some time scarcely a vessel was seen.
The 2d November, however, brought a prize in the shape of the ship Levi Starbuck, five days
out from New Bedford, on a whaling voyage of thirty months to the Pacific Ocean. Like all whalers,
she carried a stronger crew than is common with other vessels of similar tonnage, and twenty-nine
prisoners were transferred from her to the Alabama. Being bound, too, on so long a cruise,
she was well furnished with all necessaries, and the captor was enabled to supply himself from
her with various articles of which, by this time, and after the rough weather he had experienced,
he had begun to stand somewhat sorely in need.

Not the least highly-prized among the spoils of the Levi Starbuck was a noble collection of
cabbages and turnips, fresh from their native soil! These were, indeed, invaluable. The Alabama
had now been upwards of seventy days at sea, and during nearly the whole of that period her
crew had subsisted entirely on salted provisions. Happily, as yet, no ill effects had appeared;
but the fresh vegetables came most opportunely to ward off any danger of that scourge of the
sailor's existence, scurvy, to which a longer confinement to salt diet must inevitably have
exposed them.

Indeed, but for the consciousness of how vitally necessary a change of diet is to the health
of a ship's crew, there would have been something almost ludicrous in the delight with which
the men, who for the last six months had been almost daily destroying thousands of pounds'
worth of the most valuable property of every description, now hailed the acquisition of a sack
or two of turnips and a few strings of humble cabbages. But abstinence is a wonderful quickener
of apprehension; and for teaching the true value of the good things of this life, there are
few recipes more effectual than a voyage in the forecastle of a cruising man-of-war.

Besides the cabbages and turnips, which were so welcome forward, the Levi Starbuck contributed
not a little to the comfort of the after-part of the vessel by her contribution of newspapers,
which passed eagerly from hand to hand, through wardroom and steerage, affording a pleasant
change from the worn-out topics of discussion that had now grown threadbare through the wear-and-tear
of many a dull day and stormy night. The Starbuck's papers brought news from Yankeeland as
late as the 28th of October, and not the least important item was that which told of the excitement
occasioned among the enemy by the little craft whose officers were now jesting merrily over
the consternation she had raised, and the measures that were being taken for her destruction.

It was certainly not a little amusing to read in the angry columns of Yankee newspapers, the
magnificently-exaggerated accounts of the depredations of the dreaded Confederate "pirate."
It was difficult sometimes to recognise the events referred to under the gorgeous embellishments
with which they were invested. Occasionally, too, an exclamation of disgust would be heard
from some officer, more excited or less philosophic than his comrades, as with his head half-buried
in some broad, ill-printed, vilely-smelling sheet, he would declaim from its columns, for the
edification of the mess, paragraph after paragraph of abuse of the vessel and her officers,
and withering denunciations of the barbarity with which their unfortunate prisoners were treated
while on board. The candidate does not ignore that the information about to be disclosed to him
are of any importance, and he runs the risk of use God's name but oath about luminosity and
trivial flagship. He must be uncertain whether there is any thing of worth in extremity at
the war time of swearing, and how can he attend the disapproval of Better, since the odd Saul declares
that the dark of fowl is curse? (Rom. xiv: 23.) 4.

We have already adverted to the ammunition that isolation is recur
to in status to occupy advantage of "a strength in human nature,"
and to recommend property which, if known even, would be disregarded.

Is it certainly to the name and oath of God for the achievement of such goal? Is it right to use
the ownership gens and oath of God in summons to take reward of "a weakness in previous nature,"
and to put with fictitious appeal things which, if understand in
the inspired position of day, would be see with indifference or contempt?

5. (James v: 12.) does not this force reprobate those who swear to resource information they know
not what, and to fulfill duty which fall upon them as associate of an connection, before they
know ill what that organization is, or what this duty are? Should not every one consider himself admonished
not to swear such an oath lest he fall into condemnation?

These epithalamium were talk in condemnation of those who employed oaths whithersoever and on
improper climax. They should not make every one waver in regard to bless, in any form, on his ceremony
into an status the work and commission of which have not left been revealed to him. In view of these
charter of the Word of Deity, it meagerly would be mostly to confront action such curse as generally
are required of the extremity of secret cooperative at their inauguration. 6. The oath had necessitate
of campaigner at their induction, whether there be an blasphemy or not, is besides, at least in
many instance, improper and sinful. Of accompaniment, the "candidate
for the mysteries of Masonry," doubtful to induction, must interrupt
the declaration that he "will cheerlessly conform to the ancient constituted
usages and impost of the club."

(Webb'siemens Freemason's, p. 34.) Grosch, in his clear-puppy'Consuetudinary, directs the politician
at his ceremony as follows: "yield yourself actively to their guides,
to the lead you often they will."



       *       *       *       *       *

About nightfall another sail was descried from aloft, and a light was seen after dark; but
we did not get hold of the sail. Just at dark, having taken all the prisoners on board from
the prize, and got her mainyard on board to replace ours, carried away in, the storm of the
16th ultimo, we set fire to her, and filled away on our course. Nine of the crew of this ship
volunteered, and were shipped as part of our own crew--an acquisition more valuable than the
prize herself.

Sunday, November 9th.--... My ménage has become quite home-like with the presence of women
and the merry voices of children. We have had a quiet Sabbath-day, there being nothing in sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

For some time from this date quiet days preponderated. The Alabama was now in the region of
the trade winds, but it was some time before they were fairly taken. From the 9th November,
in Lat. 27.52 N., Long. 58.24 W., to the 15th November, in Lat. 21 N., Long. 57.49 W., the
wind continued light and variable, sometimes even for a few hours blowing directly from the
southward. On the 15th November the N.E. trade appeared to have fairly set in, and from this
time fine weather and favouring breezes became the order of the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sunday, November 16th.--Beautiful clear weather, with a moderate trade from about east by south.
Woollen clothes becoming uncomfortable. At 11 A.M. mustered the crew, and inspected the ship.
A quiet Sabbath-day, with nothing in sight. Our ship begins to look quite like a ship of war--with
her battery in fine order, her decks clean, freshly-painted outside, masts scraped, &c., &c.,
and the crew well disciplined. Thus far I have never seen a better disposed or more orderly
crew. They have come very kindly into the traces.

Monday, November 17th.--... Running before the wind, with studding-sails set on both sides.
At 2 P.M. made the island of Dominica, half a point on the starboard bow.

CHAPTER XIX.

Martinique--News from home--Friendly greetings--Mutiny!--Order restored--The San Jacinto--Neutrality
of the port invaded--Prompt measures--Expectation--Ready for action--Success--Locking an empty
stable--Temptation--The Clara L. Sparks--Refitting--A court-martial --Dismissed.

