"Castle?  It is nothing but a pigsty; a pigsty with a wattled fence around it."

She looked surprised and distressed.  The animation faded out of her face; and during many
moments she was lost in thought and silent.  Then:

"It was not enchanted aforetime," she said in a musing fashion, as if to herself.  "And how
strange is this marvel, and how awful --that to the one perception it is enchanted and dight
in a base and shameful aspect; yet to the perception of the other it is not enchanted, hath
suffered no change, but stands firm and stately still, girt with its moat and waving its banners
in the blue air from its towers.  And God shield us, how it pricks the heart to see again these
gracious captives, and the sorrow deepened in their sweet faces!  We have tarried along, and
are to blame."

I saw my cue.  The castle was enchanted to me, not to her. It would be wasted time to try to
argue her out of her delusion, it couldn't be done; I must just humor it.  So I said:

"This is a common case--the enchanting of a thing to one eye and leaving it in its proper form
to another.  You have heard of it before, Sandy, though you haven't happened to experience
it. But no harm is done.  In fact, it is lucky the way it is.  If these ladies were hogs to
everybody and to themselves, it would be necessary to break the enchantment, and that might
be impossible if one failed to find out the particular process of the enchantment. And hazardous,
too; for in attempting a disenchantment without the true key, you are liable to err, and turn
your hogs into dogs, and the dogs into cats, the cats into rats, and so on, and end by reducing
your materials to nothing finally, or to an odorless gas which you can't follow--which, of
course, amounts to the same thing.  But here, by good luck, no one's eyes but mine are under
the enchantment, and so it is of no consequence to dissolve it. These ladies remain ladies
to you, and to themselves, and to everybody else; and at the same time they will suffer in
no way from my delusion, for when I know that an ostensible hog is a lady, that is enough for
me, I know how to treat her."

"Thanks, oh, sweet my lord, thou talkest like an angel.  And I know that thou wilt deliver
them, for that thou art minded to great deeds and art as strong a knight of your hands and
as brave to will and to do, as any that is on live."

"I will not leave a princess in the sty, Sandy.  Are those three yonder that to my disordered
eyes are starveling swine-herds--"

"The ogres, Are they changed also?  It is most wonderful.  Now am I fearful; for how canst
thou strike with sure aim when five of their nine cubits of stature are to thee invisible?
Ah, go warily, fair sir; this is a mightier emprise than I wend."

"You be easy, Sandy.  All I need to know is, how much of an ogre is invisible; then I know
how to locate his vitals.  Don't you be afraid, I will make short work of these bunco-steerers.
Stay where you are."

I left Sandy kneeling there, corpse-faced but plucky and hopeful, and rode down to the pigsty,
and struck up a trade with the swine-herds.  I won their gratitude by buying out all the hogs
at the lump sum of sixteen pennies, which was rather above latest quotations.  I was just in
time; for the Church, the lord of the manor, and the rest of the tax-gatherers would have been
along next day and swept off pretty much all the stock, leaving the swine-herds very short
of hogs and Sandy out of princesses.  But now the tax people could be paid in cash, and there
would be a stake left besides.  One of the men had ten children; and he said that last year
when a priest came and of his ten pigs took the fattest one for tithes, the wife burst out
upon him, and offered him a child and said:

"Thou beast without bowels of mercy, why leave me my child, yet rob me of the wherewithal to
feed it?"

How curious.  The same thing had happened in the Wales of my day, under this same old Established
Church, which was supposed by many to have changed its nature when it changed its disguise.

I sent the three men away, and then opened the sty gate and beckoned Sandy to come--which she
did; and not leisurely, but with the rush of a prairie fire.  And when I saw her fling herself
upon those hogs, with tears of joy running down her cheeks, and strain them to her heart, and
kiss them, and caress them, and call them reverently by grand princely names, I was ashamed
of her, ashamed of the human race.

We had to drive those hogs home--ten miles; and no ladies were ever more fickle-minded or contrary.
They would stay in no road, no path; they broke out through the brush on all sides, and flowed
away in all directions, over rocks, and hills, and the roughest places they could find.  And
they must not be struck, or roughly accosted; Sandy could not bear to see them treated in ways
unbecoming their rank.  The troublesomest old sow of the lot had to be called my Lady, and
your Highness, like the rest.  It is annoying and difficult to scour around after hogs, in
armor.  There was one small countess, with an iron ring in her snout and hardly any hair on
her back, that was the devil for perversity.  She gave me a race of an hour, over all sorts
of country, and then we were right where we had started from, having made not a rod of real
progress. I seized her at last by the tail, and brought her along squealing. When I overtook
Sandy she was horrified, and said it was in the last degree indelicate to drag a countess by
her train.

We got the hogs home just at dark--most of them.  The princess Nerovens de Morganore was missing,
and two of her ladies in waiting: namely, Miss Angela Bohun, and the Demoiselle Elaine Courtemains,
the former of these two being a young black sow with a white star in her forehead, and the
latter a brown one with thin legs and a slight limp in the forward shank on the starboard side--a
couple of the tryingest blisters to drive that I ever saw.  Also among the missing were several
mere baronesses--and I wanted them to stay missing; but no, all that sausage-meat had to be
found; so servants were sent out with torches to scour the woods and hills to that end.

Of course, the whole drove was housed in the house, and, great guns!--well, I never saw anything
like it.  Nor ever heard anything like it.  And never smelt anything like it.  It was like
an insurrection in a gasometer.

CHAPTER XXI

THE PILGRIMS

When I did get to bed at last I was unspeakably tired; the stretching out, and the relaxing
of the long-tense muscles, how luxurious, how delicious! but that was as far as I could get--sleep
was out of the question for the present.  The ripping and tearing and squealing of the nobility
up and down the halls and corridors was pandemonium come again, and kept me broad awake.  Being
awake, my thoughts were busy, of course; and mainly they busied themselves with Sandy's curious
delusion.  Here she was, as sane a person as the kingdom could produce; and yet, from my point
of view she was acting like a crazy woman.  My land, the power of training! of influence! of
education!  It can bring a body up to believe anything.  I had to put myself in Sandy's place
to realize that she was not a lunatic.  Yes, and put her in mine, to demonstrate how easy it
is to seem a lunatic to a person who has not been taught as you have been taught.  If I had
told Sandy I had seen a wagon, uninfluenced by enchantment, spin along fifty miles an hour;
had seen a man, unequipped with magic powers, get into a basket and soar out of sight among
the clouds; and had listened, without any necromancer's help, to the conversation of a person
who was several hundred miles away, Sandy would not merely have supposed me to be crazy, she
would have thought she knew it.  Everybody around her believed in enchantments; nobody had
any doubts; to doubt that a castle could be turned into a sty, and its occupants into hogs,
would have been the same as my doubting among Connecticut people the actuality of the telephone
and its wonders,--and in both cases would be absolute proof of a diseased mind, an unsettled
reason.  Yes, Sandy was sane; that must be admitted.  If I also would be sane--to Sandy --I
must keep my superstitions about unenchanted and unmiraculous locomotives, balloons, and telephones,
to myself.  Also, I believed that the world was not flat, and hadn't pillars under it to support
it, nor a canopy over it to turn off a universe of water that occupied all space above; but
as I was the only person in the kingdom afflicted with such impious and criminal opinions,
I recognized that it would be good wisdom to keep quiet about this matter, too, if I did not
wish to be suddenly shunned and forsaken by everybody as a madman.

The next morning Sandy assembled the swine in the dining-room and gave them their breakfast,
waiting upon them personally and manifesting in every way the deep reverence which the natives
of her island, ancient and modern, have always felt for rank, let its outward casket and the
mental and moral contents be what they may. I could have eaten with the hogs if I had had birth
approaching my lofty official rank; but I hadn't, and so accepted the unavoidable slight and
made no complaint.  Sandy and I had our breakfast at the second table.  The family were not
at home.  I said:

"How many are in the family, Sandy, and where do they keep themselves?"

"Family?"

"Yes."

"Which family, good my lord?"

"Why, this family; your own family."

"Sooth to say, I understand you not.  I have no family."

"No family?  Why, Sandy, isn't this your home?"

"Now how indeed might that be?  I have no home."

"Well, then, whose house is this?"

"Ah, wit you well I would tell you an I knew myself."

"Come--you don't even know these people?  Then who invited us here?"

"None invited us.  We but came; that is all."

"Why, woman, this is a most extraordinary performance.  The effrontery of it is beyond admiration.
We blandly march into a man's house, and cram it full of the only really valuable nobility
the sun has yet discovered in the earth, and then it turns out that we don't even know the
man's name.  How did you ever venture to take this extravagant liberty?  I supposed, of course,
it was your home.  What will the man say?"

"What will he say?  Forsooth what can he say but give thanks?"

"Thanks for what?"

Her face was filled with a puzzled surprise:

"Verily, thou troublest mine understanding with strange words. Do ye dream that one of his
estate is like to have the honor twice in his life to entertain company such as we have brought
to grace his house withal?"

"Well, no--when you come to that.  No, it's an even bet that this is the first time he has
had a treat like this."

"Then let him be thankful, and manifest the same by grateful speech and due humility; he were
a dog, else, and the heir and ancestor of dogs."

To my mind, the situation was uncomfortable.  It might become more so. It might be a good idea
to muster the hogs and move on.  So I said:

"The day is wasting, Sandy.  It is time to get the nobility together and be moving."

"Wherefore, fair sir and Boss?"

"We want to take them to their home, don't we?"

"La, but list to him!  They be of all the regions of the earth! Each must hie to her own home;
wend you we might do all these journeys in one so brief life as He hath appointed that created
life, and thereto death likewise with help of Adam, who by sin done through persuasion of his
helpmeet, she being wrought upon and bewrayed by the beguilements of the great enemy of man,
that serpent hight Satan, aforetime consecrated and set apart unto that evil work by overmastering
spite and envy begotten in his heart through fell ambitions that did blight and mildew a nature
erst so white and pure whenso it hove with the shining multitudes its brethren-born in glade
and shade of that fair heaven wherein all such as native be to that rich estate and--"

"Great Scott!"

"My lord?"

"Well, you know we haven't got time for this sort of thing.  Don't you see, we could distribute
these people around the earth in less time than it is going to take you to explain that we
can't.  We mustn't talk now, we must act.  You want to be careful; you mustn't let your mill
get the start of you that way, at a time like this. To business now--and sharp's the word.
Who is to take the aristocracy home?"

"Even their friends.  These will come for them from the far parts of the earth."

This was lightning from a clear sky, for unexpectedness; and the relief of it was like pardon
to a prisoner.  She would remain to deliver the goods, of course.

"Well, then, Sandy, as our enterprise is handsomely and successfully ended, I will go home
and report; and if ever another one--"

"I also am ready; I will go with thee."

This was recalling the pardon.

"How?  You will go with me?  Why should you?"

"Will I be traitor to my knight, dost think?  That were dishonor. I may not part from thee
until in knightly encounter in the field some overmatching champion shall fairly win and fairly
wear me. I were to blame an I thought that that might ever hap."

"Elected for the long term," I sighed to myself.  "I may as well make the best of it."  So
then I spoke up and said:

"All right; let us make a start."

While she was gone to cry her farewells over the pork, I gave that whole peerage away to the
servants.  And I asked them to take a duster and dust around a little where the nobilities
had mainly lodged and promenaded; but they considered that that would be hardly worth while,
and would moreover be a rather grave departure from custom, and therefore likely to make talk.
A departure from custom--that settled it; it was a nation capable of committing any crime but
that.  The servants said they would follow the fashion, a fashion grown sacred through immemorial
observance; they would scatter fresh rushes in all the rooms and halls, and then the evidence
of the aristocratic visitation would be no longer visible. It was a kind of satire on Nature:
it was the scientific method, the geologic method; it deposited the history of the family in
a stratified record; and the antiquary could dig through it and tell by the remains of each
period what changes of diet the family had introduced successively for a hundred years.

The first thing we struck that day was a procession of pilgrims. It was not going our way,
but we joined it, nevertheless; for it was hourly being borne in upon me now, that if I would
govern this country wisely, I must be posted in the details of its life, and not at second
hand, but by personal observation and scrutiny.

This company of pilgrims resembled Chaucer's in this: that it had in it a sample of about all
the upper occupations and professions the country could show, and a corresponding variety of
costume. There were young men and old men, young women and old women, lively folk and grave
folk.  They rode upon mules and horses, and there was not a side-saddle in the party; for this
specialty was to remain unknown in England for nine hundred years yet.

It was a pleasant, friendly, sociable herd; pious, happy, merry and full of unconscious coarsenesses
and innocent indecencies.  What they regarded as the merry tale went the continual round and
caused no more embarrassment than it would have caused in the best English society twelve centuries
later.  Practical jokes worthy of the English wits of the first quarter of the far-off nineteenth
century were sprung here and there and yonder along the line, and compelled the delightedest
applause; and sometimes when a bright remark was made at one end of the procession and started
on its travels toward the other, you could note its progress all the way by the sparkling spray
of laughter it threw off from its bows as it plowed along; and also by the blushes of the mules
in its wake.

Sandy knew the goal and purpose of this pilgrimage, and she posted me.  She said:

"They journey to the Valley of Holiness, for to be blessed of the godly hermits and drink of
the miraculous waters and be cleansed from sin."

"Where is this watering place?"

"It lieth a two-day journey hence, by the borders of the land that hight the Cuckoo Kingdom."

"Tell me about it.  Is it a celebrated place?"

"Oh, of a truth, yes.  There be none more so.  Of old time there lived there an abbot and his
monks.  Belike were none in the world more holy than these; for they gave themselves to study
of pious books, and spoke not the one to the other, or indeed to any, and ate decayed herbs
and naught thereto, and slept hard, and prayed much, and washed never; also they wore the same
garment until it fell from their bodies through age and decay.  Right so came they to be known
of all the world by reason of these holy austerities, and visited by rich and poor, and reverenced."

"Proceed."

"But always there was lack of water there.  Whereas, upon a time, the holy abbot prayed, and
for answer a great stream of clear water burst forth by miracle in a desert place.  Now were
the fickle monks tempted of the Fiend, and they wrought with their abbot unceasingly by beggings
and beseechings that he would construct a bath; and when he was become aweary and might not
resist more, he said have ye your will, then, and granted that they asked. Now mark thou what
'tis to forsake the ways of purity the which He loveth, and wanton with such as be worldly
and an offense. These monks did enter into the bath and come thence washed as white as snow;
and lo, in that moment His sign appeared, in miraculous rebuke! for His insulted waters ceased
to flow, and utterly vanished away."

"They fared mildly, Sandy, considering how that kind of crime is regarded in this country."

"Belike; but it was their first sin; and they had been of perfect life for long, and differing
in naught from the angels.  Prayers, tears, torturings of the flesh, all was vain to beguile
that water to flow again.  Even processions; even burnt-offerings; even votive candles to the
Virgin, did fail every each of them; and all in the land did marvel."

"How odd to find that even this industry has its financial panics, and at times sees its assignats
and greenbacks languish to zero, and everything come to a standstill.  Go on, Sandy."

"And so upon a time, after year and day, the good abbot made humble surrender and destroyed
the bath.  And behold, His anger was in that moment appeased, and the waters gushed richly
forth again, and even unto this day they have not ceased to flow in that generous measure."

"Then I take it nobody has washed since."

"He that would essay it could have his halter free; yes, and swiftly would he need it, too."

"The community has prospered since?"

"Even from that very day.  The fame of the miracle went abroad into all lands.  From every
land came monks to join; they came even as the fishes come, in shoals; and the monastery added
building to building, and yet others to these, and so spread wide its arms and took them in.
And nuns came, also; and more again, and yet more; and built over against the monastery on
the yon side of the vale, and added building to building, until mighty was that nunnery. And
these were friendly unto those, and they joined their loving labors together, and together
they built a fair great foundling asylum midway of the valley between."

"You spoke of some hermits, Sandy."

"These have gathered there from the ends of the earth.  A hermit thriveth best where there
be multitudes of pilgrims.  Ye shall not find no hermit of no sort wanting.  If any shall mention
a hermit of a kind he thinketh new and not to be found but in some far strange land, let him
but scratch among the holes and caves and swamps that line that Valley of Holiness, and whatsoever
be his breed, it skills not, he shall find a sample of it there."

I closed up alongside of a burly fellow with a fat good-humored face, purposing to make myself
agreeable and pick up some further crumbs of fact; but I had hardly more than scraped acquaintance
with him when he began eagerly and awkwardly to lead up, in the immemorial way, to that same
old anecdote--the one Sir Dinadan told me, what time I got into trouble with Sir Sagramor and
was challenged of him on account of it.  I excused myself and dropped to the rear of the procession,
sad at heart, willing to go hence from this troubled life, this vale of tears, this brief day
of broken rest, of cloud and storm, of weary struggle and monotonous defeat; and yet shrinking
from the change, as remembering how long eternity is, and how many have wended thither who
know that anecdote.

Early in the afternoon we overtook another procession of pilgrims; but in this one was no merriment,
no jokes, no laughter, no playful ways, nor any happy giddiness, whether of youth or age. 
Yet both were here, both age and youth; gray old men and women, strong men and women of middle
age, young husbands, young wives, little boys and girls, and three babies at the breast.  Even
the children were smileless; there was not a face among all these half a hundred people but
was cast down, and bore that set expression of hopelessness which is bred of long and hard
trials and old acquaintance with despair.  They were slaves.  Chains led from their fettered
feet and their manacled hands to a sole-leather belt about their waists; and all except the
children were also linked together in a file six feet apart, by a single chain which led from
collar to collar all down the line.  They were on foot, and had tramped three hundred miles
in eighteen days, upon the cheapest odds and ends of food, and stingy rations of that.  They
had slept in these chains every night, bundled together like swine.  They had upon their bodies
some poor rags, but they could not be said to be clothed.  Their irons had chafed the skin
from their ankles and made sores which were ulcerated and wormy.  Their naked feet were torn,
and none walked without a limp.  Originally there had been a hundred of these unfortunates,
but about half had been sold on the trip.  The trader in charge of them rode a horse and carried
a whip with a short handle and a long heavy lash divided into several knotted tails at the
end.  With this whip he cut the shoulders of any that tottered from weariness and pain, and
straightened them up.  He did not speak; the whip conveyed his desire without that.  None of
these poor creatures looked up as we rode along by; they showed no consciousness of our presence.
And they made no sound but one; that was the dull and awful clank of their chains from end
to end of the long file, as forty-three burdened feet rose and fell in unison.  The file moved
in a cloud of its own making.

All these faces were gray with a coating of dust.  One has seen the like of this coating upon
furniture in unoccupied houses, and has written his idle thought in it with his finger.  I
was reminded of this when I noticed the faces of some of those women, young mothers carrying
babes that were near to death and freedom, how a something in their hearts was written in the
dust upon their faces, plain to see, and lord, how plain to read! for it was the track of tears.
One of these young mothers was but a girl, and it hurt me to the heart to read that writing,
and reflect that it was come up out of the breast of such a child, a breast that ought not
to know trouble yet, but only the gladness of the morning of life; and no doubt--

She reeled just then, giddy with fatigue, and down came the lash and flicked a flake of skin
from her naked shoulder.  It stung me as if I had been hit instead.  The master halted the
file and jumped from his horse.  He stormed and swore at this girl, and said she had made annoyance
enough with her laziness, and as this was the last chance he should have, he would settle the
account now. She dropped on her knees and put up her hands and began to beg, and cry, and implore,
in a passion of terror, but the master gave no attention.  He snatched the child from her,
and then made the men-slaves who were chained before and behind her throw her on the ground
and hold her there and expose her body; and then he laid on with his lash like a madman till
her back was flayed, she shrieking and struggling the while piteously.  One of the men who
was holding her turned away his face, and for this humanity he was reviled and flogged.

All our pilgrims looked on and commented--on the expert way in which the whip was handled.
They were too much hardened by lifelong everyday familiarity with slavery to notice that there
was anything else in the exhibition that invited comment.  This was what slavery could do,
in the way of ossifying what one may call the superior lobe of human feeling; for these pilgrims
were kind-hearted people, and they would not have allowed that man to treat a horse like that.

I wanted to stop the whole thing and set the slaves free, but that would not do.  I must not
interfere too much and get myself a name for riding over the country's laws and the citizen's
rights roughshod.  If I lived and prospered I would be the death of slavery, that I was resolved
upon; but I would try to fix it so that when I became its executioner it should be by command
of the nation.

Just here was the wayside shop of a smith; and now arrived a landed proprietor who had bought
this girl a few miles back, deliverable here where her irons could be taken off.  They were
removed; then there was a squabble between the gentleman and the dealer as to which should
pay the blacksmith.  The moment the girl was delivered from her irons, she flung herself, all
tears and frantic sobbings, into the arms of the slave who had turned away his face when she
was whipped.  He strained her to his breast, and smothered her face and the child's with kisses,
and washed them with the rain of his tears.  I suspected.  I inquired.  Yes, I was right; it
was husband and wife.  They had to be torn apart by force; the girl had to be dragged away,
and she struggled and fought and shrieked like one gone mad till a turn of the road hid her
from sight; and even after that, we could still make out the fading plaint of those receding
shrieks.  And the husband and father, with his wife and child gone, never to be seen by him
again in life?--well, the look of him one might not bear at all, and so I turned away; but
I knew I should never get his picture out of my mind again, and there it is to this day, to
wring my heartstrings whenever I think of it.

We put up at the inn in a village just at nightfall, and when I rose next morning and looked
abroad, I was ware where a knight came riding in the golden glory of the new day, and recognized
him for knight of mine--Sir Ozana le Cure Hardy.  He was in the gentlemen's furnishing line,
and his missionarying specialty was plug hats.  He was clothed all in steel, in the beautifulest
armor of the time--up to where his helmet ought to have been; but he hadn't any helmet, he
wore a shiny stove-pipe hat, and was ridiculous a spectacle as one might want to see.  It was
another of my surreptitious schemes for extinguishing knighthood by making it grotesque and
absurd.  Sir Ozana's saddle was hung about with leather hat boxes, and every time he overcame
a wandering knight he swore him into my service and fitted him with a plug and made him wear
it.  I dressed and ran down to welcome Sir Ozana and get his news.

"How is trade?" I asked.

"Ye will note that I have but these four left; yet were they sixteen whenas I got me from Camelot."

"Why, you have certainly done nobly, Sir Ozana.  Where have you been foraging of late?"

"I am but now come from the Valley of Holiness, please you sir."

"I am pointed for that place myself.  Is there anything stirring in the monkery, more than common?"

"By the mass ye may not question it!....  Give him good feed, boy, and stint it not, an thou
valuest thy crown; so get ye lightly to the stable and do even as I bid....  Sir, it is parlous
news I bring, and--be these pilgrims?  Then ye may not do better, good folk, than gather and
hear the tale I have to tell, sith it concerneth you, forasmuch as ye go to find that ye will
not find, and seek that ye will seek in vain, my life being hostage for my word, and my word
and message being these, namely: That a hap has happened whereof the like has not been seen
no more but once this two hundred years, which was the first and last time that that said misfortune
strake the holy valley in that form by commandment of the Most High whereto by reasons just
and causes thereunto contributing, wherein the matter--"

"The miraculous fount hath ceased to flow!"  This shout burst from twenty pilgrim mouths at once.

"Ye say well, good people.  I was verging to it, even when ye spake."

"Has somebody been washing again?"

"Nay, it is suspected, but none believe it.  It is thought to be some other sin, but none wit
what."

"How are they feeling about the calamity?"

"None may describe it in words.  The fount is these nine days dry. The prayers that did begin
then, and the lamentations in sackcloth and ashes, and the holy processions, none of these
have ceased nor night nor day; and so the monks and the nuns and the foundlings be all exhausted,
and do hang up prayers writ upon parchment, sith that no strength is left in man to lift up
voice.  And at last they sent for thee, Sir Boss, to try magic and enchantment; and if you
could not come, then was the messenger to fetch Merlin, and he is there these three days now,
and saith he will fetch that water though he burst the globe and wreck its kingdoms to accomplish
it; and right bravely doth he work his magic and call upon his hellions to hie them hither
and help, but not a whiff of moisture hath he started yet, even so much as might qualify as
mist upon a copper mirror an ye count not the barrel of sweat he sweateth betwixt sun and sun
over the dire labors of his task; and if ye--"

Breakfast was ready.  As soon as it was over I showed to Sir Ozana these words which I had
written on the inside of his hat: "Chemical Department, Laboratory extension, Section G. Pxxp.
Send two of first size, two of No. 3, and six of No. 4, together with the proper complementary
details--and two of my trained assistants."  And I said:

"Now get you to Camelot as fast as you can fly, brave knight, and show the writing to Clarence,
and tell him to have these required matters in the Valley of Holiness with all possible dispatch."

"I will well, Sir Boss," and he was off.

CHAPTER XXII

THE HOLY FOUNTAIN

The pilgrims were human beings.  Otherwise they would have acted differently.  They had come
a long and difficult journey, and now when the journey was nearly finished, and they learned
that the main thing they had come for had ceased to exist, they didn't do as horses or cats
or angle-worms would probably have done--turn back and get at something profitable--no, anxious
as they had before been to see the miraculous fountain, they were as much as forty times as
anxious now to see the place where it had used to be. There is no accounting for human beings.

We made good time; and a couple of hours before sunset we stood upon the high confines of the
Valley of Holiness, and our eyes swept it from end to end and noted its features.  That is,
its large features.  These were the three masses of buildings.  They were distant and isolated
temporalities shrunken to toy constructions in the lonely waste of what seemed a desert--and
was.  Such a scene is always mournful, it is so impressively still, and looks so steeped in
death.  But there was a sound here which interrupted the stillness only to add to its mournfulness;
this was the faint far sound of tolling bells which floated fitfully to us on the passing breeze,
and so faintly, so softly, that we hardly knew whether we heard it with our ears or with our
spirits.

We reached the monastery before dark, and there the males were given lodging, but the women
were sent over to the nunnery.  The bells were close at hand now, and their solemn booming
smote upon the ear like a message of doom.  A superstitious despair possessed the heart of
every monk and published itself in his ghastly face.  Everywhere, these black-robed, soft-sandaled,
tallow-visaged specters appeared, flitted about and disappeared, noiseless as the creatures
of a troubled dream, and as uncanny.

The old abbot's joy to see me was pathetic.  Even to tears; but he did the shedding himself.
He said:

"Delay not, son, but get to thy saving work.  An we bring not the water back again, and soon,
we are ruined, and the good work of two hundred years must end.  And see thou do it with enchantments
that be holy, for the Church will not endure that work in her cause be done by devil's magic."

"When I work, Father, be sure there will be no devil's work connected with it.  I shall use
no arts that come of the devil, and no elements not created by the hand of God.  But is Merlin
working strictly on pious lines?"

"Ah, he said he would, my son, he said he would, and took oath to make his promise good."

"Well, in that case, let him proceed."

"But surely you will not sit idle by, but help?"

"It will not answer to mix methods, Father; neither would it be professional courtesy.  Two
of a trade must not underbid each other.  We might as well cut rates and be done with it; it
would arrive at that in the end.  Merlin has the contract; no other magician can touch it till
he throws it up."

"But I will take it from him; it is a terrible emergency and the act is thereby justified.
And if it were not so, who will give law to the Church?  The Church giveth law to all; and
what she wills to do, that she may do, hurt whom it may.  I will take it from him; you shall
begin upon the moment."

"It may not be, Father.  No doubt, as you say, where power is supreme, one can do as one likes
and suffer no injury; but we poor magicians are not so situated.  Merlin is a very good magician
in a small way, and has quite a neat provincial reputation.  He is struggling along, doing
the best he can, and it would not be etiquette for me to take his job until he himself abandons
it."

The abbot's face lighted.

"Ah, that is simple.  There are ways to persuade him to abandon it."

"No-no, Father, it skills not, as these people say.  If he were persuaded against his will,
he would load that well with a malicious enchantment which would balk me until I found out
its secret. It might take a month.  I could set up a little enchantment of mine which I call
the telephone, and he could not find out its secret in a hundred years.  Yes, you perceive,
he might block me for a month.  Would you like to risk a month in a dry time like this?"

"A month!  The mere thought of it maketh me to shudder.  Have it thy way, my son.  But my heart
is heavy with this disappointment. Leave me, and let me wear my spirit with weariness and waiting,
even as I have done these ten long days, counterfeiting thus the thing that is called rest,
the prone body making outward sign of repose where inwardly is none."

Of course, it would have been best, all round, for Merlin to waive etiquette and quit and call
it half a day, since he would never be able to start that water, for he was a true magician
of the time; which is to say, the big miracles, the ones that gave him his reputation, always
had the luck to be performed when nobody but Merlin was present; he couldn't start this well
with all this crowd around to see; a crowd was as bad for a magician's miracle in that day
as it was for a spiritualist's miracle in mine; there was sure to be some skeptic on hand to
turn up the gas at the crucial moment and spoil everything.  But I did not want Merlin to retire
from the job until I was ready to take hold of it effectively myself; and I could not do that
until I got my things from Camelot, and that would take two or three days.

My presence gave the monks hope, and cheered them up a good deal; insomuch that they ate a
square meal that night for the first time in ten days.  As soon as their stomachs had been
properly reinforced with food, their spirits began to rise fast; when the mead began to go
round they rose faster.  By the time everybody was half-seas over, the holy community was in
good shape to make a night of it; so we stayed by the board and put it through on that line.
Matters got to be very jolly.  Good old questionable stories were told that made the tears
run down and cavernous mouths stand wide and the round bellies shake with laughter; and questionable
songs were bellowed out in a mighty chorus that drowned the boom of the tolling bells.

At last I ventured a story myself; and vast was the success of it. Not right off, of course,
for the native of those islands does not, as a rule, dissolve upon the early applications of
a humorous thing; but the fifth time I told it, they began to crack in places; the eight time
I told it, they began to crumble; at the twelfth repetition they fell apart in chunks; and
at the fifteenth they disintegrated, and I got a broom and swept them up.  This language is
figurative.  Those islanders--well, they are slow pay at first, in the matter of return for
your investment of effort, but in the end they make the pay of all other nations poor and small
by contrast.

I was at the well next day betimes.  Merlin was there, enchanting away like a beaver, but not
raising the moisture.  He was not in a pleasant humor; and every time I hinted that perhaps
this contract was a shade too hefty for a novice he unlimbered his tongue and cursed like a
bishop--French bishop of the Regency days, I mean.

Matters were about as I expected to find them.  The "fountain" was an ordinary well, it had
been dug in the ordinary way, and stoned up in the ordinary way.  There was no miracle about
it.  Even the lie that had created its reputation was not miraculous; I could have told it
myself, with one hand tied behind me.  The well was in a dark chamber which stood in the center
of a cut-stone chapel, whose walls were hung with pious pictures of a workmanship that would
have made a chromo feel good; pictures historically commemorative of curative miracles which
had been achieved by the waters when nobody was looking.  That is, nobody but angels; they
are always on deck when there is a miracle to the fore--so as to get put in the picture, perhaps.
Angels are as fond of that as a fire company; look at the old masters.

