HOW TO USE YOUR MIND

A PSYCHOLOGY OF STUDY

BEING A MANUAL FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS AND TEACHERS IN THE ADMINISTRATION OF SUPERVISED STUDY

BY

HARRY D. KITSON, PH.D.

PROFESSOR OF PSYCHOLOGY, INDIANA UNIVERSITY

1921

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION

The kindly reception accorded to the first edition of this book has confirmed the author in
his conviction that such a book was needed, and has tempted him to bestow additional labor
upon it. 

Fearing them, or that should come upon them weapons to Portuguese avenge their own, or carried
interest, were passed and came to live in the country and that, and although just then, as I just
spent four thousand, are now very numerous, they move from twenty thousand, living without
any form of people, troops, and turning to run and steal land surrounding, and the desire for
human flesh, that liked a lot, made many of them captives and fed for many days, as is done in
Europe for animal bristle, celebrated joy most cruel banquet, which were formidable to the confining,
and only with the coming of the Spanish forgotten the inhuman custom of eating human flesh, but
not the cruelty of fate which is said to have destroyed and annihilated at present over hundred
and fifty thousand.

To reduce these barbarians to political life and Christian, directed their designs, from early
last century, the Apostolic Fathers Manuel Ortega, Martín del Campo, Diego Martinez, and on others,
but most industries who used his burning zeal, never able to soften the hardness of heart
so stubborn, and tame the ferocity of encouragement so wild, because the left because, as a
land that has been shed in vain the great evangelist, to employ their labors in a country that correspond
to their culture, more worthy fruit of their work, until the year 1686, having gone two Missionaries
of the province to exercise the ministries of our apostolic vocation to Land of Tarija, made echo
in those deserts the wonders that it had the divine word in good manners broken and lost that land.

Entered,
then, according some chiefs, and by common consent sent messengers the Fathers, is pleading
with pleading eficacísimos moviesen compassion to their souls, making
them in the way of salvation, but then had no other answer but could
not assist them to give notice to his Provincial, who at the time
was Father Gregorio de Orozco, natural Almagro in La Mancha, the subject
of much zeal and fervor, who could not acquiesce so quickly so just
to pleas to open the school, as it did in the town of Tarija.

In choosing among all subjects who were to make a beginning to that mission, had the good
Provincial not much to do to appease the wishes, prayers and tears of so many as were offered to this
arduous undertaking, but there was none more ardently I wished, or who has more reason to was
due to this grace, as the VP Joseph de Arce, a native of the Canary Islands man of great heart
and with equal zeal, winner of Our Lord with a glorious death give notice that later. It seems that San
Francisco Xavier, before the Superior he was destined for this company because they seeing
great talent and ingenuity happy chairs, but with incredible pain of the good Father, he had
applied to them, but not it took a long time were obliged to change his mind, because to be so
humble Father occupation intolerable weight is shiny, it could not obtain by entreaties and
tears relieve you of her, which turned to the asylum of San Francisco Xavier, pleading with
many tears fulfilling their desires. Chambers was happy with such a powerful advocate its
appeal, because after falling ill, they gave him, careless of the nurse, a remedy prescribed
for others, which was reduced to the last stages of life. Seeing in this set, called Fr license
Thomas Provincial Baeza for his large vote Advocate San Francisco Xavier, that if he met life,
employ in the conversion of infidels. Fr Provincial recognizing and hopeless, gave license
to welcome their vote, and after him, I accepted the Ghost from the sky, for sending your evil
force, in a few days left completely healthy.

And at that time it was with great heat of conversion to our holy faith of nations that are facing
the Strait of Magellan, who discovered a few years earlier by Nicholas VP Mascardi, Italian, subject
to the province of Chile and martyr of the Lord, asking preachers of our holy law, and order of
our pious monarch Charles II, were and point to some zealous missionaries to enter the lands
of the Patagonian, was also said Fr Arce. But to the best of the play went through hell by some
Ministers of the King, who pay more attention to their particular interests in the service of
God and the Monarchy, hold them with guns tried to make after his
slaves.

Vanished, then, this unique mission with all the good pain, was destined to bring the light of
the Gospel to the Chiraguanás, and lead the way in other provinces to many his brothers, who conducted
in the same spirit and zeal had to follow, to plant in them the seed of the gospel preaching, which,
to make it more fertile, the had to water, not only with their sweat, but also with their blood.
But before undertaking this work sought to arm themselves and strengthened by recognizing
the virtues necessary for so arduous and difficult undertaking, because
he sensed his heart foreboding that the common enemy had to bring
in arms to keep the tyrannical possession and dominion of a people
who until then, insult of our Lord God, had always been his devotion.

In the meantime, therefore, that the Father was with everything contained in God's spirit to
pursue this business came from the Pilcomayo a chief vassals six, asking no one differed about
to go to give them news of our Lord God, and then expressed the fervor with which said works,
hearing taste and attention to the explanation of Christian Doctrine, and being always obedient
to his will.

Samples were self these few, we lit in his heart a burning desire
to then to work, thinking these provisions well adapted to introduce
faith in people so well inclined.

And indeed it could well expect the Chiriguaná that live at the river Pilcomayo, but not the
Bermejo River, as before them, renewing the old songs, because they had often cast the missionaries
because we wanted make them slaves of the Spanish and compel the personal service and a thousand
lies this sort, looking at him askance and told him that if you put an foot on their land had out
then, or that for once take his eyes, he had to burn alive.

Therefore, before proceeding further, I should be here to paint the living and natural genius
of these people, to recognize the same, because they become so diverse and opposite faces, which
otherwise would be impossible to know. Are inconsistent genius, more of what can be believed,
changeable to any wind, do not keep the word given, now seem men and Christians and apostates
and animals morning, friends of all, even the Spanish, when they are to account for their interests,
but for the slightest cause broken friendship.

And with all that, this is not the greatest contrast with in order to incorporate knowledge
of the mysteries and enforcement of the law of God. The strongest impediment is the bad example of the
Old Christians, rude people like the Indians do not understand a language better than example,
and the life of the faithful follows the qualities of our Santa Fe and many Sometimes they throw
in the face of missionaries who are too hard on them not to allow them the use of many women,
when they see that Europeans have to taste many they crave; and more attempts to answer them,
never told that it is enough to quiet them both. For which, with wise and prudent agreement, the
first workers in this province will attempt to stray away from the cities, looking to spread
the Gospel provinces remote, if not trade, at least in the room of strangers, so that they not
undone by their bad example what they did with his preaching.

And he practiced this until today so severely by the piety of our Catholic Reyes, that no European
or Spanish to land, if not pass, you can put Standing in the Guarani Reductions, except to the
Governors and church prelates, by his office whom they bear the visit. Now therefore, this
impediment in the Chiriguanos, is very serious. Continuously traded bordering cities, and
as more easily vices stick to the good the bad the good virtues of the evil and vicious on
seeing a few engaged in taking money from the peasants, to be unchecked
to other pleasures meat, and in some, though few, as dead faith who
do not scruple to miss to the Divine precepts, and show less reverence
to the mysteries of the Church, is not easy to say how much credit
they earn with the bad, and how much hatred and contempt charge and
to people as to the religion they profess.

And although the innate piety of the Spanish shine here as much as in any other hand, that she
misses all the malice of some, with all that, as I said, in the hearts of these barbarians is more
easily printed and evil vices than the virtues and devotion. And if, perhaps, to hear the explanation
of Christian doctrine, or some of those untestable truths that have the force of returning to itself
forgotten who himself lives, awakens them some good thinking, just born when he stifles his inconstantísimo
genius, and evil example of outsiders, as is often what we see and touch hands. This course
and return to our narrative.

Having Fr Arce tried and tested for many days, the fervor of this
chief and his subjects, we found this reduction seemed to hope good
success.

To this end the referred to his own country, accompanied by four Guarani Indians that were
with him, giving order to those that explore the willingness of the people and ran the villages located
in the bank of the Pilcomayo, which will soon follow, along with D. Diego Porcel, piísimo knight
and beloved of the infidels, for your kindness and good treatment, to help him in that business, and
with His authority had restrained the caciques of the Bermejo River, but God did not want
to it more than good will to eternal reward in heaven: for when he is very decrepit old age,
a few leagues, surprised an accident, it was necessary go back, but instead replaced her son,
whom getting in the way P. Joseph for the month of May 1690, after
a few days they came to some villages they were the banks of the Pilcomayo,
where he was received with special affection of countrymen they were
currently mourning the death of some of their own, because of discord
that existed between Cambaripa and Tataberiy.

Were these the two Chiefs of greater name and power land, and for beginning the new Christianity,
it was necessary to ensure compatibility between yes, and off all malice, redo friends.

To this end, the holy man wanted to go in person to get in between and make peace, and hubiéralo
done to see that it was manifestly not lie down to die in the arms of the Toba, Confederate Tataberiy,
who infested the roads.

At this juncture there came a messenger of Cambaripa, asking him to give him his hand, if I could
find a prompt and effective relief to his ruin, and to that of those his subjects, because had time
to stop or resist the same time as many enemies or seek escape his life by flight, by being
badly wounded by the enemy.

Pierced the heart of this new P. Arce, and that failure to repair the country, again then back to
collect the mercy of a Spanish relief arms and return to God comforts alternate tempered the
pain of that accident, because of Chiriguaná Bermejo River, which before had been so adverse
and hard, and their hearts softened the influences of the Holy Spirit
met him, and Cambichuri, the chief more powerful, he showed great
finesse of love, inviting it to be to preach to his subjects and that
would make him as Father liked.

Came to Tarija, and reaching to the Rulers a company of soldiers,
as soon became he could, taking for his companion to P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, and although the road was rough and dangerous and the lack
of comfort with your body trying these operators are Evangelicals
more work was walking, all that were insensitive to any trouble and
by the abundant copy of heavenly delights enjoyed, baptizing in the
wilderness large number of children and not a few adults who already
seeing close to death, changed life willingly to wait for eternal
bliss.

Finally, to September 26, entered in the villages of Tataberiy, where he had to deal with peace.

He
left it to complete, accompanied by forty of his own, and more at home hospedóle prosperous
town, and beginning at once to discuss the business of peace, be known as very quick, P. Arce,
who fell to the two chiefs promised each other to that peace together
and renew their old friendship, and found out that they may be made
friendships also among relatives of the dead and the murderers who
was the most difficult to achieve.

These people held peace with incomparable solemnity and joy, but above all, who samples gave
higher Cambaripa was happy, and incredibly he became interested Tataberiy the missionaries,
and through them to the holy law of Christ, he entreated her to stay there for teach the Divine
precepts, promising to enlist as soon as possible the number of the faithful; clothing and
gave it to baptize a child all I had.

But the Padres, before to foothold somewhere, wanted to run the entire province, thus giving them
good hopes, left, assisted always the son of that good gentleman, who never wanted to leave her
side in that pilgrimage, and then moving to the banks of the river Parapití and populated
with many villages were received from all with signs of great affection and treated as better
than poverty and hardship in the country permitted.

From this shot to the mountains whose slopes Charaguay to live most of Chanes and many Chiriguaná.
They had little to do here is not in writing to the countrymen Taquiremboti's
vassals, but put them in agreement, they continued their journey,
finding no else destroyed settlements, withdrawing to other parts
of people, not to suffer the woes and misfortunes that war brings.

Finally, suffered little or no danger of dying light, came to the river Guapay where were received
from its inhabitants with incredible finesse, and the Chiefs will Manguta and Fayo pleaded vividly
remain upon that place for instruction in the mysteries of our Santa
Fe and teach the way to heaven.

Fr Arce, who by then had other plans, promised to meet them another time their wishes, that administering
Holy Baptism to four who were in danger of death be prevented and for the game.

At this time there came an Indian chief's sister Tambacurá, and fell at his feet very distressed
and grief for the governor of Santa Cruz de la Sierra sent his brother to turn to punish him,
and expressing his pain gave him so many reasons and taught such prayers and appeals the love
of blood, to deliver him from the blow, as I said, he had machined out of spite and envy your enemies,
which had to condescend to his Parents requests for hands touched
and they saw these people that they were not looking but to its usefulness
and that the chances were his shield and shelter, for fans this way
to our holy law.

This was his plan and intent, but not of God, which is often worth of human interests to bring
to an end the provisions of eternal providence. And such was the way these missionaries to
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, for going only to implore temporal life of an Indian God that brought them
out of all waiting for rescue to countless people from the bondage of the devil. Therefore part
of Guapay with Tambacurá to Santa Cruz, where he received with great
courtesy of Governor Don Agustín de Arce piísimo Knight, reached by
mercy and grace the lives of the poor man, who otherwise they have
been through a lot.

These demonstrations of esteem and affection for our parents forced you to trust him indicate
their plan to convert to the faith and to the Chiriguanos deign to
bring his authority against anyone who dared oppose the company.

It seemed the wise governor it was unnecessary to spend time and work with the Indians, so they began
with solid reasons to persuade the other hand straighten your thoughts and apostolic zeal, because
they were stubborn people into idolatry, savage in manners, and extremely
adverse to the laws and purity of the Christian life, and unstable
in the undertaking, that and other occasions had tried to reduce fervorosísimos
Missionaries, and after great work and fatigue had not taken another
fruit of their sweat but taunts, insults and bad treatment.

Now there was a very fresh memory fervorosísimo P. Martín del Campo, Province Peru, which after
several months spent with them, given his obstinacy, was seen compelled to go elsewhere to use
their fervor. I therefore advised the verifications look at other countries that do not lose
themselves and others happy they won.

Confined to that city Chiquitos Indians who had recently made peace with the Spanish and called
preachers of the Gospel, teach them the divine law. Could not the good governor to please them,
sending missionaries to the province of Peru for being such cultivar used in the nations of the Moxos,
so he offered to our missionaries the abundant harvest of the Gentiles, which would find in
their zeal to satisfy your taste, and increase their zeal field where the divine glory would not
be here over the work the fruit, or drop of sweat trickle down in this land, seed that was not
cogiesen the conversion of many souls. And to be undertaken with more heat this mission, write
of his hand very effective letters to the Provincial of the province,
to our Father General Tirso Gonzalez, his close friend.

 The same principle holds true in the development of the mind. The most serviceable mind
is that which accomplishes results in the shortest time and with least waste motion. Take every
precaution, therefore, to rid yourself of all superfluous and impeding methods.

Strive for the development of good form in study. Especially is this necessary at the start.
Now is the time when you are laying the foundations for your mental achievements in college.
Keep a sharp lookout, then, at every point, to see that you build into the foundation only
those materials and that workmanship which will support a masterly structure.

READINGS AND EXERCISES

NOTE.--Numbers in parentheses refer to complete citations in Bibliography at end of book.

Readings: Fulton (5) Lockwood (11)

Exercise 1. List concrete problems that have newly come to you since your arrival upon the campus.

Exercise 2. List in order the difficulties that confront you in preparing your daily lessons.

Exercise 3. Prepare a work schedule similar to that provided by the form in Chart I. Specify
the subject with which you will be occupied at each period.

Exercise 4. Try to devise some way of registering the effectiveness with which you carry out
your schedule. Suggestions are contained in the summary: Disposition of (1) as planned; (2)
as spent. To divide the number of hours wasted by 24 will give a partial "index of efficiency."

CHAPTER II

NOTE-TAKING

Most educated people find occasion, at some time or other, to take notes. Although this is
especially true of college students, they have little success, as any college instructor will
testify. Students, as a rule, do not realize that there is any skill involved in taking notes.
Not until examination time arrives and they try vainly to labor through a maze of scribbling,
do they realize that there must be some system in note-taking. A careful examination of note-taking
shows that there are rules or principles, which, when followed, have much to do with increasing
ability in study.

One criterion that should guide in the preparation of notes is the use to which they will be
put. If this is kept in mind, many blunders will be saved. Notes may be used in three ways:
as material for directing each day's study, for cramming, and for permanent, professional use.
Thus a note-book may be a thing of far-reaching value. Notes you take now as a student may
be valuable years hence in professional life. Recognition of this will help you in the preparation
of your notes and will determine many times how they should be prepared.

The chief situations in college which require note-taking are lectures, library reading and
laboratory work. Accordingly the subject will be considered under these three heads.

LECTURE NOTES.--When taking notes on a lecture, there are two extremes that present themselves,
to take exceedingly full notes or to take almost no notes. One can err in either direction.
True, on first thought, entire stenographic reports of lectures appear desirable, but second
thought will show that they may be dispensed with, not only without loss, but with much gain.
The most obvious objection is that too much time would be consumed in transcribing short-hand
notes. Another is that much of the material in a lecture is undesirable for permanent possession.
The instructor repeats much for the sake of emphasis; he multiplies illustrations, not important
in themselves, but important for the sake of stressing his point. You do not need these illustrations
in written form, however, for once the point is made you rarely need to depend upon the illustrations
for its retention. A still more cogent objection is that if you occupy your attention with
the task of copying the lecture verbatim, you do not have time to think, but become merely
an automatic recording machine. Experienced stenographers say that they form the habit of recording
so automatically that they fail utterly to comprehend the meaning of what is said. You as a
student cannot afford to have your attention so distracted from the meaning of the lecture,
therefore reduce your classroom writing to a minimum.

Probably the chief reason why students are so eager to secure full lecture notes is that they
fear to trust their memory. Such fears should be put at rest, for your mind will retain facts
if you pay close attention and make logical associations during the time of impression. Keep
your mind free, then, to work upon the subject-matter of the lecture. Debate mentally with
the speaker. Question his statements, comparing them with your own experience or with the results
of your study. Ask yourself frequently, "Is that true?" The essential thing is to maintain
an attitude of mental activity, and to avoid anything that will reduce this and make you passive.
Do not think of yourself as a vat into which the instructor pumps knowledge. Regard yourself
rather as an active force, quick to perceive and to comprehend meaning, deliberate in acceptance
and firm in retention.

After observing the stress laid, throughout this book, upon the necessity for logical associations,
you will readily see that the key-note to note-taking is, Let your notes represent the logical
progression of thought in the lecture. Strive above all else to secure the skeleton--the framework
upon which the lecture is hung. A lecture is a logical structure, and the form in which it
is presented is the outline. This outline, then, is your chief concern. In the case of some
lectures it is an easy matter. The lecturer may place the outline in your hands beforehand,
may present it on the black-board, or may give it orally. Some lecturers, too, present their
material in such clear-cut divisions that the outline is easily followed. Others, however,
are very difficult to follow in this regard.

In arranging an outline you will find it wise to adopt some device by which the parts will
stand out prominently, and the progression of thought will be indicated with proper subordination
of titles. Adopt some system at the beginning of your college course, and use it in all your
notes. The system here given may serve as a model, using first the Roman numerals, then capitals,
then Arabic numerals:

 I.
II.
   A.
   B.
     1.
     2.
       a.
       b.
         (1)
         (2)
            (a)
            (b)

In concluding this discussion of lecture notes, you should be urged to make good use of your
notes after they are taken. First, glance over them as soon as possible after the lecture.
Inasmuch as they will then be fresh in your mind, you will be able to recall almost the entire
lecture; you will also be able to supply missing parts from memory. Some students make it a
rule to reduce all class-notes to typewritten form soon after the lecture. This is an excellent
practice, but is rather expensive in time. In addition to this after-class review, you should
make a second review of your notes as the first step in the preparation of the next day's lesson.
This will connect up the lessons with each other and will make the course a unified whole instead
of a series of disconnected parts. Too often a course exists in a student's mind as a series
of separate discussions and he sees only the horizon of a single day. This condition might
be represented by a series of disconnected links:

               O O O O O

A summary of each day's lesson, however, preceding the preparation for the next day, forges
new links and welds them all together into an unbroken chain:

              OOOOOOOOOO

A method that has been found helpful is to use a double-page system of notetaking, using the
left-hand page for the bare outline, with largest divisions, and the right-hand page for the
details. This device makes the note-book readily available for hasty review or for more extended
study.

READING NOTES.--The question of full or scanty notes arises in reading notes as in lecture
notes. In general, your notes should represent a summary, in your own words, of the author's
discussion, not a duplication of it. Students sometimes acquire the habit of reading single
sentences at a time, then of writing them down, thinking that by making an exact copy of the
book, they are playing safe. This is a pernicious practice; it spoils continuity of thought
and application. Furthermore, isolated sentences mean little, and fail grossly to represent
the real thought of the author. A better way is to read through an entire paragraph or section,
then close the book and reproduce in your own words what you have read. Next, take your summary
and compare with the original text to see that you have really grasped the point. This procedure
will be beneficial in several ways. It will encourage continuous concentration of attention
to an entire argument; it will help you to preserve relative emphasis of parts; it will lead
you to regard thought and not words. (You are undoubtedly familiar with the state of mind wherein
you find yourself reading merely words and not following the thought.) Lastly, material studied
in this way is remembered longer than material read scrappily. In short, such a method of reading
makes not only for good memory, but for good mental habits of all kinds. In all your reading,
hold to the conception of yourself as a thinker, not a sponge. Remember, you do not need to
accept unqualifiedly everything you read. A worthy ideal for every student to follow is expressed
in the motto carved on the wall of the great reading-room of the Harper Memorial Library at
The University of Chicago: "Read not to contradict, nor to believe, but to weigh and consider."
Ibsen bluntly states the same thought:

"Don't read to swallow; read to choose, for 'Tis but to see what one has use for."

Ask yourself, when beginning a printed discussion, What am I looking for? What is the author
going to talk about? Often this will be indicated in topical headings. Keep it in the background
of your mind while reading, and search for the answer. Then, when you have read the necessary
portion, close the book and summarize, to see if the author furnished what you sought. In short,
always read for a purpose. Formulate problems and seek their solutions. In this way will there
be direction in your reading and your thought.

This discussion of reading notes has turned into an essay on "How to Read," and you must be
convinced by this time that there is much to learn in this respect, so much that we may profitably
spend more time in discussing it.

Every book you take up should be opened with some preliminary ceremony. This does not refer
to the physical operation of opening a new book, but to the mental operation. In general, take
the following steps:

1. Observe the title. See exactly what field the book attempts to cover.

2. Observe the author's name. If you are to use his book frequently, discover his position
in the field. Remember, you are going to accept him as authority, and you should know his status.
You may be told this on the title-page, or you may have to consult Who's Who, or the biographical
dictionary.

3. Glance over the preface. Under some circumstances you should read it carefully. If you are
going to refer to the book very often, make friends with the author; let him introduce himself
to you; this he will do in the preface. Observe the date of publication, also, in order to
get an idea as to the recency of the material.

4. Glance over the table of contents. If you are very familiar with the field, and the table
of contents is outlined in detail, you might advantageously study it and dispense with reading
the book. On the other hand, if you are going to consult the book only briefly, you might find
it necessary to study the table of contents in order to see the relation of the part you read
to the entire work.

5. Use the index intelligently; it may save you much time.

You will have much to do throughout your college course with the making of bibliographies,
that is, with the compilation of lists of books bearing upon special topics. You may have bibliographies
given you in some of your courses, or you may be asked to compile your own. Under all circumstances,
prepare them with the greatest care. Be scrupulous in giving references. There is a standard
form for referring to books and periodicals, as follows:

C.R. Henderson, Industrial Insurance (2d ed.; Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1912),
p. 321.

S.I. Curtis, "The Place of Sacrifice," Biblical World, Vol. XXI (1902), p. 248 ff.

LABORATORY NOTES.--The form for laboratory notes varies with the science and is usually prescribed
by the instructor. Reports of experiments are usually written up in the order: Object, Apparatus,
Method, Results, Conclusions. When detailed instructions are given by the instructor, follow
them accurately. Pay special attention to neatness. Instructors say that the greatest fault
with laboratory note-books is lack of neatness. This reacts upon the instructor, causing him
much trouble in correcting the note-book. The resulting annoyance frequently prejudices him,
against his will, against the student. It is safe to assert that you will materially increase
your chances of a good grade in a laboratory course by the preparation of a neat note-book.

The key-note of the twentieth century is economy, the tendency in all lines being toward the
elimination of waste. College students should adopt this aim in the regulation of their study
affairs, and there is much opportunity for applying it in note-taking. So far, the discussion
has had to do with the content of the note-book, but its form is equally important. Much may
be done by utilization of mechanical devices to save time and energy.

First, write in ink. Pencil marks blur badly and become illegible in a few months. Remember,
you may be using the notebook twenty years hence, therefore make it durable.

Second, write plainly. This injunction ought to be superfluous, for common sense tells us that
writing which is illegible cannot be read even by the writer, once it has "grown cold." Third,
take care in forming sentences. Do not make your notes consist simply of separate, scrappy
jottings. True, it is difficult, under stress, to form complete sentences. The great temptation
is to jot down a word here and there and trust to luck or an indulgent memory to supply the
context at some later time. A little experience, however, will quickly demonstrate the futility
of such hopes; therefore strive to form sensible phrases, and to make the parts of the outline
cohere. Apply the principles of English composition to the preparation of your note-book.

A fourth question concerns size and shape of the note-book. These features depend partly upon
the nature of the course and partly upon individual taste. It is often convenient and practicable
to keep the notes for all courses in a single note-book. Men find it advantageous to use a
small note-book of a size that can be carried in the coat pocket and studied at odd moments.

A fifth question of a mechanical nature is, Which is preferable, bound or loose-leaf note-books?
Generally the latter will be found more desirable. Leaves are easily inserted and the sections
are easily filed on completion of a course.

It goes without saying that the manner in which notes, are to be taken will be determined by
many factors, such as the nature of individual courses, the wishes of instructors, personal
tastes and habits. Nevertheless, there are certain principles and practices which are adaptable
to nearly all conditions, and it is these that we have discussed. Remember, note-taking is
one of the habits you are to form in college. See that the habit is started rightly. Adopt
a good plan at the start and adhere to it. You may be encouraged, too, with the thought that
facility in note-taking will come with practice. Note-taking is an art and as you practise
you will develop skill.

We have noted some of the most obvious and immediate benefits derived from well-prepared notes,
consisting of economy of time, ease of review, ease of permanent retention. There are other
benefits, however, which, though less obvious, are of far greater importance. These are the
permanent effects upon the mind. Habits of correct thinking are the chief result of correct
note-taking. As you develop in this particular ability, you will find corresponding improvement
in your ability to comprehend and assimilate ideas, to retain and reproduce facts, and to reason
with thoroughness and independence.

READINGS AND EXERCISES

Readings:

Adams (1) Chapter VIII.

Dearborn (2) Chapter II.

Kerfoot (10)

Seward (17)

Exercise 1. We very quickly. Is it all right for us to sit a while in the Progress
Square to talk peacefully? ".

No doubt The blind man said yes, because five minutes after they were seen sitting side by side
in the base of the fence surrounding the statue of Mendizabal. The face Almudena, an ugly expression,
dark citrine, with wispy beard, black as the raven's wing, was characterized mainly by the excessive
grandeur of the mouth, when he smiled, affected a curve whose ends, replicating the loose skin
of the cheek, got too close ears. The eyes were like sores and dry and insensitive, surrounded
by patches sanguine; medium size, crooked legs. His body had lost its graceful shape by the
habit of walking in the dark, and spend long hours sitting on the floor with legs Moorish folded.
Decency wore on, as his clothes, but old and full of dirt, did not tear or damage which were
not amended by a darned smart patches or applications and patches. She wore black boots, very
pink, but perfectly seams and patches defended habilis. The bowler hat revealed dilated services different
heads, to come to lend at that, that may not be the last, dents felt they were not such that would
prevent the defense skull material covering. The stick was hard and glossy, the hand that
was holding him, nervous, outside morenísimo color, throwing Ethiopic, white palm, his tone
and softness that resembled to a press raw hake, nails trimmed, the collar at least dirty it
is possible to imagine the miserable condition of the unhappy and wandering life of His son.

"For what we were going, Almudena - Benina Sena said, taking his handkerchief
to put it back, restless and nervous as a person who wants to ventilate
the head -.

I have a serious commitment and you, nothing but you, you can get me out of it.

- Dicermi it, you ...

- What did you think to do this afternoon?

- At home me, mocha that
JACER me: I wash clothes, sew mocha, mocha patch.

- You are the breading
man in the world.

I have not seen another like you.

Blind and poor, you fix yourself your clothes, thread a needle with her tongue sooner than
I with my fingers sew to perfection, are you tailor your shoe, your laundry ... And after
asking in the parish in the morning and evenings on the street, you have time to go for a while
coffee ... You of what there is, and if there were justice in the world and things were willing
to reason, should give you a prize ... Well, son, because what is this afternoon I leave work,
because you do me a service ... For chances are friends.

- What dirt you?

- A tremendous thing. I have not lived.

I'm so unhappy, if you do not throw me shelter me the Viaduct ...
That's right.

- Amri ... pulling no.

- Is there such a big commitment,
so great that it seems impossible that it may leave them.

I'll tell you at once to give you free: I need a hard ...

- A Durro! - Almudena said, expressing the sudden seriousness of the face and the energy of accent
the horror that was causing the magnitude of the quantity.

- Yes, son, yes ... hard, and I can not go home if not before it.

I must have that hard, runs you, then it must be removed from under
the rocks, looking for whatever it is.

- It mocha ... ...-- mocha
murmured the blind turning his face toward the ground.

- Not much
- watched the other, trying to deceive their grief with optimistic
ideas -.

Who does not is a hard? A hard, Almudena friend, you have any ... With what can you buscármelo
you, yes or no. "

Something said in his strange blind Benina language translated by the word "impossible", and throwing
a deep sigh, which Almudena answered with another no less deep and plaintive, remained a painful
time in meditation, staring at the floor and then to the sky and the statue of Mendizabal Mr dark
green bronze that she did not know who he was or why he had put there. With that look that is
vague and distracted in moments of intense bitterness, as a harrowing twist the soul itself, he saw
pass by a garden and another band of people hurried or lazy. Some had a hard, others were searching.
Collectors spent the Bank's Satchel shoulder; carts with beer and soda bottles, hearses, which
was conducted the cemetery one to whom nothing mattered and hard. Buyers came in stores coming out
with packages. Ragged beggars pestering the lords. With rapid vision Benina reviewed the boxes
of such shop, the different quarters of all households, into the pockets of every well-dressed
pedestrians, acquiring the certainty that none of those folds of missing a hard life. Then I thought
it would be a step too salty to submit it in the nearby home of Céspedes saying to do a favor
to give a hard, it should give even a loan. Surely, they would laugh at such absurd claim,
and would nicely on the street. And yet, it seemed natural and right wherever a tough represented
only a negligible amount, it should give it, for whom such sum was ... like a huge atom. And
if you pass the desired currency hand with many other possessed her, to theirs, would not be
noticed any change sensitive to the distribution of wealth, and all follow the same: the rich,
rich, poor her and others of their poor condition. Well, this being so, why not come to his
hands hard? What reason is there for twenty people they passed not deprived of a real, and
that these twenty actual racking not natural to go through his hands? Navigate things in this
messy world! Poor Benina was content with a drop of water and Withdrawal before the pond could
not have it. Let us all, heaven and earth, would I lose Retirement something the pond because
it is take out a drop of water?

V

This thought, when Almudena, returning from a meditation calculator,
you must be very sad face that went down, you said:

"Did not you
thing that comb?

- No, son, all committed and, until the ballots.

-
Do not be someone who Priester you?

- There is no one that I rely
now.

No I take a step without encountering a frown.

- Mr Carlos call you tomorrow.

- Tomorrow is too far, and I need the hard today, and soon, Almudena,
soon.

Every minute happens is a hand me the noose tightens I have in the
throat.

- Do not mourn, Amri.

You be good Migo, I arremediando you ... Vesl now.

- What are you?

Tell me soon.

- I combed clothes.

- Does the outfit you bought at the flea market?

How much do you give?

- Two and a half piesetas.

- I'll do it for out three. What else?

- Come home Migo - Almudena said, rising with decision.

- Quickly, son, no time to lose. It's too late. For there is little to walk from here to Santa
Casilda inn! ".

Hurriedly made their way down the street from Meson de Paredes, speaking
little.

Benin more suppressed by anxiety that the resiliency of the pass, threw light on his face, and
each Once he heard bells of clocks made a grimace of despair. Cold North Wind I drove down
the street, puffing his clothes like sails of a ship. One's hands and another was ice, and his
nose dripped red. Their voices hoarse, the words sounded with hollow cold and sad.

Not far from the point where Meson de Paredes leads to the Ronda de Toledo, found the hostel
Santa Casilda, a vast hive of affordable housing in runners superposed aligned. Enter it by a yard
or corral long and narrow, filled with piles of garbage, waste offal and waste of everything
human. The room we lived was the last of Almudena ground floor, at ground level and not had
to cross a single step to enter it. Housing made up the two pieces separated by a mat roof
slope: next the kitchen, another room, also a room or cabinet, with well-beaten dirt floor,
white walls, not as dirty as others of the same human or burrows mansion. Saddle was the only piece
of furniture, because the bed was a mattress and blankets brown,
leaning around a angle.

The stove was not without pots, pans, bottles, nor food.

In the center of the room, he saw a black figure Benina, something like a bundle of clothes,
or a bag abandoned. In the dim light that came after the door closed, she observed that the
lump was alive. By touch, rather than by sight, he realized he was a person.

"You be here Pedra drunk.

- Ah!

What stuff! It is this that helps pay for the room ... Drunkard, sinvergüenzonaza ... But
do not lose time, son, give me the suit, which I will take ... and with the help of God, I
will take even two eighty. Go get me thinking about what is missing. The Blessed Virgin to you
will, and I shall pray for you to give it folded, as I certainly do not want me any thing. "

Taking
Charge of the impatience of his friend, the blind man picked a nail the suit he called again for
a convention very common in business combinations and gave it to her friend, who in four Zanchetta
was placed on the patio and in the round, then pulling to the call Campillo de Manuela. The beggar,
meanwhile, uttering angry words, it is not easy to play narrator,
being in Arabic, felt the bulk of women intoxicated, which as a dead
body lying in the middle of the cubicle.

A angry expressions the blind, only answered with harsh growling, and turned away, sprawled and
stretching arms to fall back into deep slumber and more brutal inertia.

Almudena put his hand in between the black robes, the folds, scrambled with shawl, formed an
inextricable mess, and accompanying registration of furious exclamations, explored also the flaccid
bosom, as if you love skins with cloth. I was so nervous man I found what should be covered, and
hid what they like to see the light of day. There took rosaries, scapulars, a bundle of papers
wrapped in a hard piece of paper, horseshoe pieces gathered in the streets, teeth of animals
or people, and other trinkets. Following registration, entered the Benina, back and diligence,
which had sent so quickly, as if it had been brought on wings and
the angels of heaven.

The poor woman came sofocadísima the fast run through the streets, I could hardly breathe, and
Fire dismissed his sweaty face, her eyes joy.

"I have been three - he said, showing the coins - a quarter. I have not had much luck in Valeriano
be there, you get to be the mistress, Reimund, labor cost get two-plus.

"

Responding to the old happy, Almudena, with a face of joy and triumph,
showed him between his fingers a quarter.

'Is here in the Piech of this ... Tigo catch.

- Oh, what luck!

Did not have more? Looking good, son.

- I had more. My regolver Piech things. "

Benina shook the drunk's clothes waiting to see a coin jump. But it jumped more two forks, and
some bits of coal.

"I had more."

She rattled the blind, and by the explanations given of the nature and behavior the big woman, could
understand that if they had found this in a state of normal clearance,
peseta would have given the asking.

With a short sentence summed up his partner Almudena Hosting: "Being Bueno, be bad ... Take
it tudo, tudo give it. "

Continuous act lifted the mattress and digging into the ground, pulled out a dirty old suitcase,
who carefully hid in rags and cardboard, and put his fingers in her, like someone pulls out
a cigarette, took a papelejo, which unfolded was a penny of two realities, new and shiny. Benina
took it while he drew from his pocket Almudena, where he had many tools, scissors, needle spliff,
knife, etc.., another envelope with two shillings.

He said to them he had received from D. Carlos, and gave everything to the poor old woman, saying:
'Amri, and arriglar tigo.

- Yes, yes ... I put mine today, and the absence so little that I will not bother you anymore.
Thanks God! I can not believe. Oh, son, how good you are! You deserve to drop the lottery, and
if you do not like, it's because there is no justice on earth or in heaven ... Goodbye, son,
I can not stop another moment ... God bless you ... I'm on tenterhooks. I'm flying home ... Stay
in yours ... and this poor wretch, when you wake, do not hit, son, poor thing! Each one, for the
sake of not suffering, get drunk so you can: this with the aguardentazo, others with something
else. I also lame, but not well: mine are deeper thing ... I'll tell you, I'll tell you. "

And
shot out, the coins stuck in the heart, afraid that someone removed
from the Along the way, or that he flew away, dragged from their tumultuous
thoughts.

Al Left alone, Almudena went to the kitchen, where, among other junk, had a palanganita tin
and a jar of water. He washed his hands and eyes, then took a pot in which ashes and coals
were off, and going to a neighboring house, he returned a little while with fire, over which
poured a handful of some substance in an envelope of paper beside his bed. Fire rose very dense
smoke and a pungent odor. Was the incense of benzoin, the only remembrance of the native soil
material that allowed Almudena wandering in exile. The special aroma, characteristic of Moorish
house was his comfort, keenest pleasure, religious practice and home
together, then wrapped in smoke that things began to pray that no
Christian could understand.

With the smog, the snarling drunk again, and cleared his throat, and coughing, as if trying
to remember yes. The blind did not make him more attention than a dog, attentive only to their
prayers in that language know whether it was Arabic or Hebrew, covering one eye in each hand,
and lowering them later on mouth to kiss. Median time spent in meditation, and when finished,
was sitting before him with eyes slut lloricones elusive and, because
of the itching caused by the thick incense, looked at him.

Seriously presenting palms, Almudena I let these words:

"Great pick,
not having more than one God ... b'rracha, b'rrachona not be more
than one God ... a God, a God alone, alone.

"

He dropped another hearty laugh, and touching his chest, he wanted
to clean up the mess concerned that the hand of his roommate had caused
in that part interesting of person.

Clumsy sleep out alcoholic who could not quite put everything in its site or to cover the modesty
seeks and ever sought to be covered. "Jai, you I've arregistrao.

- Yes ... Not have more than one God, one God alone.

- And to me, what? For me who have already two or forty, all that they themselves want to have
... But tell me, sponger, I've removed the peseta. I do not care. Pa ti era.

- A God alone!

".

And seeing him take the stick, put women on guard, saying, "Hey, do not hit, Jai. Enough and
of incense, and get to make dinner. How much money do you have? What do you bring? ...

- B'rrachona! diniero failing ... Take the Embaixador, you sleep.

- What do you bring? - Murmured the black woman staggered and closing his eyes -. Aguárdate a little
bit. I have dream, Jai. "

He fell back into deep sleep, and Almudena, which had required the club with intentions using
it as an infallible remedy for drunkenness, took pity and sighed hard, muttering these or
similar words: "Paste you another day."

VI

Almost is not hyperbole to say that the Sena Benina, after leaving Santa Casilda, possessing
incomplete hard that calmed his mortal anguish, going in rounds, and street crossings as an
arrow.

With sixty years back, kept his agility and alertness, coupled with perseverance inexhaustible.
He had spent the best of life in an eager rush, which required much
activity as a prank, crazy efforts of the mind and muscles, and that
teaching was fortified in body and spirit, it formed the special temple
woman will know who read this timely story of his life.

With amazing alacrity entered in a drugstore in the Calle de Toledo, collected medicines had ordered
early in the morning, then did stop at the butcher shop and grocery store, carrying her shopping
distinct wrapping paper, and finally entered a house in Imperial Street, near the Rinconada that
is the True almotacén and Contrast. Glided along the narrow portal, blocked and almost impassable
by the flaps of a trade of rope that is in it, rose stairs, walk to the main rapids with moderate
step up to the second, came panting to the third, which was the last, with honors attic. Turned a
large patio Gallery of leaded glass, uneven ground due to uneven subsidence and the old factory,
and finally came to a paneled door, unpainted, called ... It was his house, the house of his
wife, which, in person, groping the walls, came the noise of the
bell, or rather hoarse jangling, and opened, not without the precaution
of asking for sight, square, defended by an iron cross.

"Thank God, woman ...-- told at the door -. Go a few hours! I thought
that I caught a car, or you had an accident.

"

Without saying a word to his wife continued Benina gabinetillo up
next, and both sat down.

Apologized Maid's explanations for his delay was to give them fear,
and began to defensive, waiting to see where it came from Dona Paca,
and what positions he took in his irascible genius.

Something reassuring tone of the first words with which it was received;
expected a sharp rebuke, words complacent.

But the lady seemed to be of good, trained, indeed, the harsh nature of the intensity of suffering.
Benina proposed, as always, accommodate is that you play the other, and soon to be with her,
changed the first phrases, he calmed down. "Ay, ma'am, what a day!

I was undone, but would not let me, I let out of that blessed home.

- I do not explain it - said the lady, whose Andalusian acentillo
persisted, although highly attenuated, after forty years of residence
in Madrid -.

I'm aware. On hearing the twelve, one, two, I said to myself: 'But, Lord, why take so long Nina?'.
Until I remembered ...

- Right.

- I thought ... as I have in my head all the calendar ... that today is San Romualdo, confessor and
Bishop of Pharsalia ...

- Cabal.

- And are the days of Mr. priest
in whose house you're an assistant.

- If I thought you had to guess,
would have been more quiet - said the maid, in his extraordinary ability
to build and expose lies, took advantage of the solid cable threw
her mistress -.

And it was not loose the job!

- You've had to take a long lunch.

That's what I reckon. And do not be short of swallows the San Sebastian curánganos, colleagues and
friends in your D. Romualdo!

- Everything you say is not enough.

- Tell me, what are you wearing? - Nervously asked the lady, who liked
to know what ate in the homes of others -.

I'm aware. I would mayonnaise.

- First rice, which was very close to me. Oh, Lord, how much praise! That if it was I first
cook the whole Europe ... that if shame is not sucking her fingers
...

- What next?

- A fricassee that they wanted for themselves and
the angels of heaven.

Then, squid in ink ... then ...

- For though I have you told me not to bring any leftovers home, they prefer misery God sent me to
suck the bones of other tables ... as you know, you've no doubt brought
something.

Where's your basket? ".

Seeing fuck, Benina hesitated a moment, but no woman was undaunted by any danger and mastery of
the trick suggested working soon remove: "Well, ma'am, I left the
basket bringing suit in Mademoiselle Obdulia, who needs it more than
us.

- You did well.

I praise the idea, Nina.

Tell me more.

And a good steak, not wearing?

- Go, go!

Two and a half kilos, ma'am. Sotero Rico gave me the higher.

- What desserts, drinks ...?

- Up Champagne of the Widow.

Priests are the devil, and nothing is private ... But let's go inside, it's too late, and will
be the lady fainted.

- I was, but ... I do not know: it seems that
I've eaten all that you've spoken ... Finally, give me lunch.

- What
have you taken?

Is it cooked little turned away last night?

- Daughter, I could not pass.

Here I am with half an ounce of raw chocolate.

- Come on, let's go. The worst thing is you have to light a fire. But soon release ... Ah! also I bring
medicines. That comes first.

- Did you do all that I commanded you? - Asked the lady, launched the two into the kitchen -. "Grasp
my two petticoats?

- Why not?

With two pesetas I took, and two others who gave me D. Romualdo for
his holy, I could attend to everything.

- Did you pay the oil yesterday?

-
Well, no!

- And the lime and bloody?

- All, everything ... And I
still have left over after the purchase, for tomorrow.

- God Will
you bring us a good day tomorrow? - Said with great sorrow the lady
sitting in the kitchen, while the maid, with nervous promptly gathered
chips and coals.

- Ay! Yes, sir, keep it at that.

- Why did I tell
you, Nina?

- Because I know.

Heart tells me. Tomorrow we have a good day, I say that a great day.

- When you see him tell you if you hit ... I do not trust your hunches.

You're always with you tomorrow, tomorrow ...

- God is good.

- Me no think so. No shots were tired of me: I beatings, will not let me breathe. After bad
day, is a worse.

Spend years waiting for the remedy, and no illusion that I was not
become disillusioned. I get tired of suffering, I also tired of waiting.
My hope is treacherous, and as always fool me, I do not want to expect
good things and bad I hope to come ... even regular.

- For me that
Mrs. - said Benina giving the bellows - have trust in God, and would
happy ... You see, I'm ... Did I not see? I always think that when
we least expect it We come the stroke of luck, and we so richly, remembering
the days of trouble, and retribution of them with the great life that
we're going to give.

- I do not aspire to the good life, Nina - said
almost crying Mrs. -: I aspire only to rest.

- Who do you think about
death? That does not: I feel very comfortable in this world fandanguero,
and until I have him for odd jobs law happened. Not die.

- Would
you settle for this life?

- I'm satisfied because it is not in my
power to give me another. Come all before death, and we suffer provided
they do not miss a piece of bread and can eat with two sauces a very
good: hunger and hope.

- And support, and of misery, shame, humiliation
so, due to worldwide not pay anyone to live a thousand tangles, traps
and tricks, not to find who you rely value two real keepers ourselves
persecuted and sellers?

- Go if you take it! ... Everyone in this
life, as can be defended. Bad habits secure a grip upon us that we are sometimes
powerless to shake off. True, this ineradicableness need have no terrors if we have formed
good habits. Indeed, as will be pointed out in the next paragraph, habit may be a great asset.
Nevertheless, it may work positive harm, or at best, may lead to stagnation. The fixedness
of habit tends to make us move in ruts unless we exert continuous effort to learn new things.
If we permit ourselves to move in old grooves we cease to progress and become "old fogy."

But the advantages of habit far outweigh its disadvantages. Habit helps the individual to be
consistent and helps people to know what to expect from one. It helps society to be stable,
to incorporate within itself modes of action conducive to the common good. For example, the
respect which we all have for the property of others is a habit, and is so firmly intrenched
that we should find ourselves unable to steal if we wished to. Habit is thus a very desirable
asset and is truly called the "enormous fly-wheel of society."

A second advantage of habit is that it makes for accuracy. Acts that have become habitualized
are performed more accurately than those not habitualized. Movements such as those made in
typewriting and piano-playing, when measured in the psychological laboratory, are found to
copy each other with extreme fidelity. The human body is a machine which may be adjusted to
a high degree of nicety, and habit is the mechanism by which this adjustment is made.

A third advantage is that a stock of habits makes life easier. Have you ever reflected how
miserable you would be and what a task living would be if you had to learn to write anew every
morning when you go to class; or if you had to relearn how to tie your necktie every day? The
burden of living would be intolerable.

The last advantage to be discerned in habit is economy. Habitual acts do not have to be actively
directed by consciousness. While they are being performed, consciousness may be otherwise engaged.
While you are brushing your hair or tying your shoes, your mind may be engaged in memorizing
poetry or calculating arithmetical problems. Habit is thus a great economizer.

The ethical consequences of habit are so striking that before leaving the subject we must give
them acknowledgment.

EXERCISE

Exercise 1. Point out an undesirable habit that you are determined to eradicate. Describe the
desirable habit which you will adopt in its place. Give the concrete steps you will take in
forming the new habit. How long a time do you estimate will be required for the formation of
the new habit? Mark down the date and refer back to it when you have formed the habit, to see
how accurately you estimated.

CHAPTER V

ACTIVE IMAGINATION

A very large part of the mental life of a student consists in the manipulation of images. By
images we mean the revivals of things that have been impressed upon the senses. Call to mind
for the moment your house-number as it appears upon the door of your home. In so doing you
mentally reinstate something which has been impressed upon your senses many times; and you
see it almost as clearly as if it were actually before you. The mental thing thus revived is
called an image.

The word image is somewhat ill-chosen; for it usually signifies something connected with the
eye, and implies that the stuff of mental images is entirely visual. The true fact of the matter
is, we can image practically anything that we can sense. We may have tactual images of things
touched; auditory images of things heard; gustatory images of things tasted; olfactory images
of things smelled. How these behave in general and how they interact in study will engage our
attention in this chapter.

The most highly dramatic use of images is in connection with that mental process known as Imagination.
As we study the writings of Jack London, Poe, Defoe, Bunyan, we move in a realm almost wholly
imaginary. And as we take a cross-section of our minds when thus engaged, we find them filled
with images. Furthermore, they are of great variety--images of colors, sounds, tastes, smells,
touches, even of sensations from our own internal organs, such as the palpitations of the heart
that accompany feelings of pride, indignation, remorse, exaltation. A further characteristic
is that they are sharp, clean-cut, vivid.

We may conclude, then, that three of the desirable attributes of great works of the imagination
are number, variety and vividness of mental images.

One question that frequently arises concerning works of the imagination is, What is their source?
Superficial thinkers have loosely answered, "Inspiration," implying, (according to the literal
meaning of the word, "to breathe in"), that some mysterious external force (called by the ancients,
"A Muse") enters into the mind of the author with a special revelation.

Psychological analysis of these imaginative works shows that this explanation is untrue. That
the bizarre and apparently novel products arise from the experiences of the author, revived
in imagination and combined in new ways. The horrendous incidents depicted in Dante's "Divine
Comedy" never occurred within the lifetime experience of the author as such. Their separate
elements did, however, and furnished the basis for Dante's clever combinations. The oft-heard
saying that there is nothing new under the sun is psychologically true.

In the light of this brief analysis of products of the imagination we are ready to develop
a program which we may follow in cultivating an active imagination.

Recognizing that images have their source in sensory experience, we see that the first step
to take is to seek a multitude of experiences. Make intimate acquaintance with the objects
of your environment. Handle them, tear them apart, put them together, place them next to other
objects, noting the likenesses and differences. Thus you will acquire the stuff out of which
images are made and will stock your mind with a number of images. Then when you wish to convey
your ideas you will have a number of terms in which to do it--one of the characteristics of
a free-flowing imagination.

The second characteristic we found to be variety. To secure this, seek a variety of sensational
experiences. Perceive the objects of your experience through several senses--touch, smell,
sight, hearing, taste. By means of this variety in sensations you will secure corresponding
variety in your images.

To revive them easily sometimes requires practice. For it has been discovered that all people
do not naturally call up images related to the various senses with equal ease. Most people
use visual and auditory images more freely than they do other kinds. In order to develop skill
in evoking the others, practise recalling them. Sit down for an hour of practice, as you would
sit down for an hour of piano practice. Try to recall the taste of raisins, English walnuts;
the smell of hyacinths, of witch-hazel; the rough touch of an orange-skin. Though you may at
first have difficulty you will develop, with practice, a gratifying facility in recalling all
varieties of images.

The third characteristic which we observed in works of the imagination is vividness. To achieve
this, pay close attention to the details of your sensory experiences. Observe sharply the minute
but characteristic items--the accent mark on après; the coarse stubby beard of the typical
alley tough. Stock your mind with a wealth of such detailed impressions. Keep them alive by
the kind of practice recommended in the preceding paragraph. Then describe the objects of your
experience in terms of these significant details.

We discovered, in discussing the source of imaginative works, that the men whom we are accustomed
to call imaginative geniuses do not have unique communication with heaven or with any external
reservoir of ideas. Instead, we found their wonder-evoking creations to be merely new combinations
of old images. The true secret of their success is their industrious utilization of past experiences
according to the program outlined above. They select certain elements from their experiences
and combine them in novel ways. This is the explanation of their strange, beautiful and bizarre
productions. This is what Carlyle meant when he characterized genius as "the transcendent capacity
for taking trouble" This is what Hogarth meant when he said, "Genius is nothing but labor and
diligence." For concrete exemplification of this truth we need only turn to the autobiographies
of great writers. In this passage from "John Barleycorn," Jack London describes his methods:

"Early and late I was at it--writing, typing, studying grammar, studying writing and all forms
of writing, and studying the writers who succeeded in order to find out how they succeeded.
I managed on five hours' sleep in the twenty-four, and came pretty close to working the nineteen
waking hours left to me."

By saying that the novel effects of imagination come by way of industry, we do not mean to
imply that one should strain after novelty and eccentricity. Unusual and happy combinations
will come of themselves and naturally if one only makes a sufficient number.

There are laws of combination, known as the psychological laws of association, by which images
will unite naturally. The number of possible combinations is infinite. By industriously making
a large number, you will by the very laws of chance, stumble upon some that are especially
happy and striking.

In summarizing this discussion, we may conclude that an active fertile imagination comes from
crowding into one's life a large number of varied and vivid experiences; storing them up in
the mind in the form of images; and industriously recalling and combining them in novel relationships.
Mental images occur in other mental processes besides Imagination. They bulk importantly in
memorizing, as we shall see in Chapters VI and VII; and in reasoning, as we shall see in Chapter
IX. Throughout the book we shall find that as we develop ability to manipulate mental images,
we shall increase the adaptability of all the mental processes.

READING AND EXERCISES

Reading: Dearborn (2) Chapter III.

Exercise 1. Call up in imagination the sound of your French instructor's voice as he says étudiant.
Call up the appearance on the page of the conjugation of être, present tense.

Exercise 2. Choose some word which you have had difficulty in learning. Look at it attentively,
securing a perfectly clear impression of it; then practise calling up the visual image of it,
until you secure perfect reproduction.

Exercise 3. List the different images called up by the passage from Romeo and Juliet.

CHAPTER VI

FIRST AIDS TO MEMORY; IMPRESSION

Of all the mental operations employed by the student, memory is probably the one in which the
greatest inefficiency is manifested. Though we often fail to realize it, much of our life is
taken up with memorizing. Every time we make use of past experience, we rely upon this function
of the mind, but in no occupation is it quite so practically important as in study. We shall
begin our investigation of memory by dividing it into four phases or stages--Impression, Retention,
Recall and Recognition. Any act of memory involves them all. There is first a stage when the
material is being impressed; second, a stage when it is being retained so that it may be revived
in the future; third, a stage of recall when the retained material is revived to meet present
needs; fourth, a feeling of recognition, through which the material is recognized as having
previously been in the mind.

Impression is accomplished through the sense organs; and in the foregoing chapter we laid down
the rule: Guard the avenues of impression and admit only such things as you wish to retain.
This necessitates that you go slowly at first. This is a principle of all habit formation,
but is especially important in habits of memorizing. Much of the poor memory that people complain
about is due to the fact that they make first impressions carelessly. One reason why people
fail to remember names is that they do not get a clear impression of the name at the start.
They are introduced in a hurry or the introducer mumbles; consequently no clear impression
is secured. Under such circumstances how could one expect to retain and recall the name? Go
slowly, then, in impressing material for the first time. As you look up the words of a foreign
language in the lexicon, trying to memorize their English equivalents, take plenty of time.
Obtain a clear impression of the sound and appearance of the words.

Inasmuch as impressions may be made through any of the sense organs, one problem in the improvement
of memory concerns the choice of sense avenues. As an infant you used all senses impartially
in your eager search after information. You voraciously put things into your mouth and discovered
that some things were sweet, some sour. You bumped your head against things and learned that
some were hard and some soft. In your insatiable curiosity you pulled things apart and peered
into them; in short, utilized all the sense organs. In adult life, however, and in education
as it takes place through the agency of books and instructors, most learning depends upon the
eye and ear. Even yet, however, you learn many things through the sense of touch and through
muscle movement, though you may be unaware of it. You probably have better success retaining
impressions made upon one sense than another. The majority of people retain better things that
are visually impressed. Such persons think often in terms of visual images. When thinking of
water running from a faucet, they can see the water fall, see it splash, but have no trace
of the sound. The whole event is noiseless in memory. When they think of their instructor,
they can see him standing at his desk but cannot imagine the sound of his voice. When striving
to think of the causes leading to the Civil War, they picture them as they are listed on the
page of the text-book or note-book. Other people have not this ability to recall in visual
terms, but depend to greater extent upon sounds. When asked to think about their instructor,
they do it in terms of his voice. When asked to conjugate a French verb, they hear it pronounced
mentally but do not see it on the page. These are extremes of imagery type, but they illustrate
preferences as they are found in many persons. Some persons use all senses with ease; others
unconsciously work out combinations, preferring one sense for some kinds of material and another
for other kinds. For example, one might prefer visual impression for remembering dates in history
but auditory impression for conjugating French verbs. You will find it profitable to examine
yourself and discover your preferences. If you find that you have greater difficulty in remembering
material impressed through the ear than through the eye, reduce things to visual terms as much
as possible. Make your lecture notes more complete or tabulate things that you wish to remember,
thus securing impression from the written form. The writer has difficulty in remembering names
that are only heard. So he asks that the name be spelled, then projects the letters on an imaginary
background, thus forming visual stuff which can easily be recalled. If, on the contrary, you
remember best the things that you hear, you may find it a good plan to read your lessons aloud.
Many a student, upon the discovery of such a preference, has increased his memory ability many
fold by adopting the simple expedient of reading his lessons aloud. It might be pointed out
that while you are reading aloud, you are making more than auditory impressions. 

One day she was fired also the only house that already attended.

-
Basilisa - said Mrs. - You can no longer bring water and scrub floors.

It is you killing and can not meet properly. I need to find another assistant ... Well I would
like keep her ... but I'm not rich, you know ... we have many expenses ...

- Yes, ma'am, yes, I understand - said the humble and unhappy with forced smile .-- Too has done
for me.

Left the house, its last refuge, his heart tightened and legs unsteady. Razorfen reached the
dwelling in the suburbs. His son slept in the crib the sweet dream and serenity of the angels.
The poor fell to his knees and sobbed for a long time.

He lifted his head at last, and said silently watching the child:

-
No, not go to the hospice!

Multiple Wives, and even some lady too, had advised. But the idea of ​​leaving the son of her
womb in the hands of women employees sordid and brutal horror had forever. He fought bravely
as he could, depriving it of necessary sustenance enough times to feed the child, which already
had about three years. He had, however, to the fight and was defeated. He was the use of begging,
but besides the horror that caused him, understood very well that
his days were numbered.

And dying it, what would become of the creature?

He pondered a good room with dry eyes fixed on the child, repeating
from time to time the same phrase:

- No, not go to the hospice!

Rose suddenly animated by a fatal desire, kissed her son passionately until managed to wake him,
envolviolo in a blanket and holding it at arms out of the house.

It was the hour of dusk. From the top of the worms, where Basilisa lived, could be seen arriving
the wharf and fishing boats. A crowd awaited them.

On the square, and the long street running from it to the church
by the sea, also ran a lot of people.

Basilisa took Rodillero the road that encircles the opposite side
gives the small cove Peñascosa front by front, and hurried away, almost
running.

- Why are you, Mom?

Where are we going? - Asked the boy with his tiny hands stroking
his face.

- We go to heaven, my love - said the unhappy eyes clouded
with tears.

- Are we going to Dad?

Could not answer, he felt a lump in my throat.

- Come to Daddy?

"- Insisted the young.

He paused a moment to catch his breath.

- Yes, let's see, rich mine - said after .-- Do not you want to go
to heaven with him?

- No, I with you.

And at the same time choked with tender arms and covered her face
with kisses.

- Why are you crying, Mom? - Asked surprised to feel
on the lips bitterness of tears .-- Can not you got anything?

Take my horn ...

And he offered a lead that had cost Basilisa two quarters. For Gil, who did not understand
existence without messing with something, the greatest misfortune that could be weighed on a was
human hands are empty.

The mother pressed her against his chest, laid on her rosy cheeks a shower of kisses and continued
the race. At a certain spot where the road is separated from the shore the sea and then, let
them fall and took a veredita leading to it. He came to the rocks tall dark surrounding it on
that road. He put his son on the floor and kneeling then tearfully prayed a prayer tablets, not
being addressed in the form, it should not listen to the Almighty.

It was almost dark. The sea was still, dark, waiting impassively to tears of that unfortunate woman
should come as so bitter to increase the flow of its waters. Side of the creek there was the
silhouette of the pier and three or four pataches that usually lie at anchor nearby. The group
of fishing boats, a little apart, moving and still ringing with the cries of women employed
in opening the fish's belly, while the husband lay seriously as a
tavern in the town.

Attended Basilisa a moment to those sounds so familiar. She also hoped her husband at one time,
stroking her with his eyes upon arrival, took from his hands the water binder, the case of rigging
and the basket of supplies and took them home with joy.

Mariano coming soon later and sat at the fireside, with dancing between
his paws to cute boy which had a few months.

The widow was a long time staring at the bank group, which appeared
as a report and movable mass. His son, sitting on the lawn, playing
the trumpet jamming ground.

Suddenly came to him, lifted his arms and ran toward the thin edge.

- Mom! Where are we going? - Shouted the child.

The answer, if he gave it, must be from heaven. Momentum jumped into a tailspin. Falling on the
stones of the shore, broke his head was dead on the spot: the child miraculously saved. The
womb from which he now poured out not to break apart spring.

An old sailor, who was at that time among those rocks for fishing
for octopus, heard noise and provided the first aid to the child.

Ran to the news soon flooded the place of people. The case produced a deep impression. Women
wept and went to tender infant from hand to hand and caresses lavished a thousand cares. Many
offered to adopt and there was dispute over who had to take it. Aware ladies of the village
and moved, also wanted to pick up the orphan. The fishermen's wives then gave to do so in the
interest of the former. It was therefore held by Ms Eloisa, Mrs. D. Martin Houses, seconded by another
six or eight ladies in no way wanted to give up participation as charitable work.

Gil's childhood (which was the name the orphan), if not happy, was not unhappy. Their protective
vigilance exercised over him a bit cheeky at times, a little humiliating too, but always loving and
well intentioned. Between them, although taking Ms main part Eloisa, paid for the upbringing
and boarding in a couple's house craftsman who lived in the worms, near the house where the
unfortunate widow lived. When was too old for this, he was sent to school. Showed signs of
being a kid peaceful, quiet, sensitive, and began to learn their lessons well. His seven or eight
mothers were in charge ask the master for his behavior and application
whenever you encountered on the street encouraging him to 'put you
tighten the screws.

"The teacher was responsible, in effect, tighten while reminding every moment, in front of his classmates,
his orphan their misery and the absolute necessity of showing that
he had humble and grateful to his beneficent.

This humility was the thing that never stopped singing to hear at the villa. How he stumbled
in the street and deigned to put his hand paternally on the head, they said:

- Beware of being humble!

Be obedient and submissive to the ladies that you have collected for charity Do you understand?
... charity.

And finally, his classmates were responsible generously was constantly warn an unhappy without
parents, nurtured by love and that should be in the hospice and non- alternating with distinguished
sons of shoemakers, masons, tailors and bakers fashioned, and leading other people no less worthy
of respect.

Teníala humility in the heart of the drowned child and the suicide,
if not had not it would be easy to ridicule and scorn inculcate their
peers, or the parental spanking the teacher and their protective,
because they all thought they were entitled to love, but to punish
him too.

His was a nature lover and appreciated. He understood that Protecting all should respect and
affection, and is taxed. Of course, in the depths of his heart felt preferences, that is irremediable.
Passionately loved Ms Eloisa. This good lady, who was the one most needed, never scolded or
punished, or even a word I said unpleasant tratábalo with extreme tenderness, caressed him as if
he were his son and hid and excused his little antics.

When he was twelve years old, met in conclave ladies and deliberated about what should be done
with the boy. Desechose unanimously the idea of ​​devoting to the office of his father. They thought
of several others, without being able to agree, until Ms Trinidad, the wife of D. Remigio Flórez,
a manufacturer of canned food, take a servant proposed messenger boy home. They nodded almost all
of this resolution, but Ms Eloisa, who was hurt, did this to her
friends that the boy had shown aptitude for studies, and would a meritorious
work to make him a priest.

The ladies have welcomed the idea enthusiastically. Only Ms Trinidad, large dotted lady and friend
to impose its will around the world, opposed strongly and withdrew from the meeting bland. Pasáronse
ladies without their help, and setting a monthly amount, would be paid to cleavage, sent the
boy Lancia seminar, capital of the province where we are.

Gil was a model seminarian, applied, sweet, respectful, caring religious practices and showing great
enthusiasm in them. The ladies who had no reason to congratulate the resolution. When I came to
Peñascosa holiday, brought to each Rector's letter expressing his satisfaction with the conduct
and progress of the fatherless. In the two or three months I stayed there, they provided some
services, reviewing the lessons to their children, assisting them in their prayers or serving as
a clerk, etc. Lived home of Ms Eloisa. Every summer they would turn a little, the child became
a man. At last he three consecutive years to come, to take the last orders. Decision time to become
a priest. When he appeared at last a day in costume Peñascosa priest, his presence caused deep emotion
in the heart of their protection. All mothers were considered him, and therefore entitled to
mourn for joy and fell into his arms tenderly.

Certainly, these reliefs were once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving
and tolerant with the child had shown were most extreme now with the man. This out of their
boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Ms Ms Theodora and Martial, always treated him with gentleness and even
mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties among them. The rich, as
Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and ornaments more expensive: those
who did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplied the money with the
skill of his hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration. Fixed
the church and took part in the adornment not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of the people
who had paid for the race young priest, for the terrible circumstances
that had led to such protection.

The officiating was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication
of that.

None was better right to do so, but all are believed to both, and
this secret resentments rise again palabrillas and some unpleasant.

The pay he returned to the village and sang, his voice weak and trembling

-
Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and falls, accompanied by the roar answered body:

- Et cum spiritu tuooooo.

- What is white! - Said a young artisan's companion at his side.

- Looks like a picture.

Sang D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure,
epistle.

- Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft.

- You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback. Want to show off.

He was very kind accredited in the town that D. Narcissus and the girl felt a mutual Osuna inclination,
but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say high voice. D. Narcissus was indeed given
much to live among the weaker sex to enter the fort. So would Sarrió came about three years,
more or less, was the idol of the ladies Cliff by his elegant appearance, which was contrast
to the shabbiness of the most priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little
jokes and, above all, his love to be always among them. Was far from being beautiful or handsome,
was a man of thirty-five, dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth; but had managed
to pass at once funny place. I never meant it to his devotees friends. Little joke goes, has
little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to the other, non-shortened never to be in the middle
of a large circle. In contrast, D. Narcissus extremely pleased it, enjoyed camp alone in the
house. Directed the consciousness of most of them and authorizing the lecture them out of the confessional,
sometimes harshly. Almost all received submit your corrections with, even with pleasure, and
if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately. With this, Don Narciso was
the guest required in all Gaudeamus parties and fashionable society Peñascosa, ate voraciously,
and this made boast, drank the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to
provide any coplita that was almost always dirty. Because D. Narcissus, who because of his
ministry not be authorized jokes concerning sex sex relationships are entitled to believe drop
the most nasty about other miseries of the human body. And ladies bizarre case! the laughing
and celebrating as if they were prodigious cleverness and wit. Two years later to come to the
villa had been a failure. Down the stairs of a certain house he frequented much, he broke his leg.
They said the lady's husband, who owned the house had helped to drop, not entirely agree with
the time and occasion of their visits; but instantly the good souls of Peñascosa rushed to
quell the rumor sacrilegious. And as proof of the indignation with which rejected the case, most
major ladies the town was formed in nurses beside his bed, leaving not a moment alone day and
night taking turns every few hours, as if the Blessed hiciesen guard. D. Daffodil deserved such
attention of the fair sex.

No harder and never dealt fervent zeal the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind. Not only addressed
with particular care awareness of that best represented in Peñascosa,
shepherding his sheep with love thus leaving some stone throwing which
strayed as diligent pastor era, but by dint of many sleepless nights
had been found a fraternity, established and in other parts of Spain
and abroad, the brotherhood of the Daughters of Mary.

In this brotherhood not fall more than young singles. Such privilege excited a vague defiance
mixed of appetite in married women. Creíanse humiliated with that exclusion. D. Narciso advantage
this shadow of rivalry to keep them more prone.

- Oh, ladies, should not envy you the privilege! You have husbands who look and serve.

She said in an ironic twang showing hostility secret that the chaplain was to all the husbands.
The ladies, upon whom the charms of fascination and those not exercising
some, forced smile and mischievously as saying: "Ya, ya!"

It was rumored that more in love with him. Ms Marciala, the wife of the apothecary of the place,
had gone to Sarrió to bring socks to be a priest passing time with
her family.

Ms Filomena widow of a lieutenant, his only son was going to help to Mass every day. No However,
he had noticed in him a preference Obdulia, the daughter of Osuna, administrator Montesinos.

- But it really did go like? - Asked the young artisan, listening
to his companion expressed so clearly.

- Girl, I do not know!

What I can say is that D. Narcissus leaves the house, and many days of my window I see them run one
after another in the garden of Montesinos playing tag ... So much so that I told.

- Have you told him! - Exclaimed the other, stunned.

- Yes, girl
... Can not you see I confess to him?

... There was nothing ... I said, 'Look, D. Narciso ... do not be offended ... but I, you and
Obdulia watching them play in the garden, I have suspicions ... I can think evil thoughts. "

- Ave Maria, how awful! And what did he say?

- He got all choked ... Ugh! Began to say: "For you and others like you lose credit and honor
priests and religious decay! "I called bag of malice, that seemed I lie that such atrocities happen,
and here and there ... At first I wanted to eat, then went quieting ... "You're right, D. Narciso,
I answered, but I can not help ... "And it's true, girl I can not help it ... I can not!

After the letter Peñascosa pastor sang the Gospel. His voice was rough without inflections. Without
looking completely distracted sang just the book, raising their young eyes and hard over the
glasses to look at him, rather, to spray look to the son of the Pepaina, which was secretly
pulling out the candles babas and pocketing. Although one of the most shameless rascals of the
town Parrot (which by that name was known this young man distinguished) was upset and tantico restless
under the gaze of the clergy. The thing with good reason. D. Miguel Vigil, pastor Rocky, since
25 of this century was one of the worst men genius of Spain, and do not exaggerate if we say
nothing of the globe. Had at the time eighty-two years, was high, dry, sharp features, thick
brows together, small and piercing eyes. Still had great physical vigor, and what is even
rarer, in his remaining hair barely noticed the gray. The duration of the first civil war,
left the flock and went to the Basque provinces to fight with weapons in hand for the cause
of the Pretender. He returned a few years. His character was not softened brave long walk to
Shot in the mountains. Peñascosa parishioners had in it much like a shepherd a captain of
robbers. Nobody raised the rooster in the population. The most difficult cases of consciousness used
to resolve D. Miguel in a flash with a half dozen punches or well-directed kicks. Marcellin,
the Cosme, tape was the daughter of Laureana the weaver and would not marry her. D. Miguel is
planted in the house of Cosimo, picked Marcelino by the ears, gave him three slaps turtleneck, and fifteen
days, like it or not, had them married. Ramon denied the confectioner, D. Cipriano two thousand reales
to it by had given no receipt. The priest called for Ramon to his
house, shut himself in a room with him, I took a stick and forced
to sign a receipt.

Through these procedures theological D. Miguel evangelical morality instilled among the souls entrusted
to their care.

Were not you like the latest in worship. Looked down on the clerics who sought introducing them
and took care of the dress and grooming. Tolerated them because they knew they were supported
by the bishop and the higher clergy of the diocese, but laughed at them at all times in a manner
rude, irritating, and I used them a few tricks malignant spoil any of those mystic revelry
that put more effort. We tried, for example, to hold a communion general girls with orchestral
accompaniment. The day was marked, D. Miguel sent the church with a gang of carpenters who
were placed to fix the platform with horrendous hammer, preventing concerted hear voices and instruments
of music. Other sometimes required the assiduous penitents D. Narciso-examining Christian doctrine
or While the singing in church banned after a month of rehearsals, or withdrawing from the altar
cloths that they had embroidered aplanchado, or threw in some chapel where they had assume its real, etc.,
etc. These acts of despotism earned the enmity habíanle of the Gallic clergy and female. A D. Miguel
gave a farthing for such animosity. The enjoyment of his life was not loved or admired, but do
all the time and chance their will. Furthermore, it could have all the defects they want their
enemies, but nobody ever knew shadow bias towards weaker sex. Positively despised women, believed
that none was able to say or do anything with common sense.

In his manly character seemed embodied the Roman spirit, which denied women the power to govern
itself never.

Neither is believed to D. Miguel was shown not obedient to his superiors. The bishop had trouble
an immense understanding with him. If you sent an order, without giving it cures archived compliance,
if I turned a visit, it would get in bed pretending to be sick to see him. Concluded by ignore
him and let him go with it. Peñascosa did not confess but half a dozen veterans of the civil
war. Other parishioners were split between chaplains assigned to the parish for four-fifths
of the women relied on burdens of their weaknesses to the irresistible
D. Narciso.

D. Miguel felt no despondency for this preference. And yet, the small number of his penitents was assured
that confessor prudent, discreet and delicate questions.

Finished reading the Gospel and could see the satisfaction of looking around with persistence Lorito movements.
Why was this rogue so distracted looking at the rapt gallery in hearing the melodies of the organ,
if not for two seconds that he had seen getting into his pocket half a pound of wax at least? Pastor
for the soul of thoughts crossed death and destruction. Had the strength, however, to hold
back. The Mass continued. The priest novel elevated the Sacred Host with trembling hands, amid a buzz
of enthusiasm and worship. The court, by releasing more guttural tremolo records, contributed mightily
to do most solemn and moving the descent of the Son of God into the hands of man. Gil felt shudder
under the impression his body. Ineffable joy rose from the bottom of his chest and squeezed
her gently throat. That bounty, infinite, that his God made him, and with such longing had expected,
stirred up every fiber of his heart. His eyes were veiled by the
tears, and to bend the knee, before raising the cup of passion, was
some seconds to rise and about to fall unconscious. No magic wand can transform you into a good memorizes
You must work the transformation yourself. Furthermore, it is not an instantaneous process
to be accomplished overnight. It will come about only after you have built up a set of habits,
according to our conception of study as a process of habit formation.

A final word of caution should be added. Some people think of memory as a separate division
or compartment of the mind which can be controlled and improved by exercising it alone. Such
a conception is fallacious. Improvement in memory will involve improvement in other mental
abilities, and you will find that as you improve your ability to remember, you will develop
at the same time better powers to concentrate attention, to image, to associate facts and to
reason.

READING AND EXERCISE

Reading: See readings for Chapter VI.

Exercise I. Compare the mental conditions of impression with those of recall.

CHAPTER VIII

CONCENTRATION OF ATTENTION

Nearly everyone has difficulty in the concentration of attention. Brain workers in business
and industry, students in high school and college, and even professors in universities, complain
of the same difficulty. Attention seems in some way to be at the very core of mental activity,
for no matter from what aspect we view the mind, its excellence seems to depend upon the power
to concentrate attention. When we examine a growing infant, one of the first signs by which
we judge the awakening of intelligence is the power to pay attention or to "notice things."
When we examine the intellectual ability of normal adults we do so by means of tests that require
close concentration of attention. In judging the intelligence of people with whom we associate
every day, we regard one who is able to maintain close attention for long periods of time as
a person of strong mind. We rate Thomas Edison as a powerful thinker when we read that he becomes
so absorbed in work that he neither eats nor sleeps. Finally, when we examine the insane and
the feeble-minded, we find that one form which their derangements take is an inability to control
the attention. This evidence, added to our own experience, shows us the importance of concentration
of attention in study and we become even more desirous of investigating attention to see how
we may develop it.

We shall be better able to discuss attention if we select for analysis a concrete situation
when the mind is in a state of concentrated attention. Concentrate for a moment upon the letter
O. Although you are ostensibly focussing all your powers of attention upon the letter, nevertheless
you are really aware of a number of things besides: of other words on the page; of other objects
in the field of vision; of sounds in the room and on the street; of sensations from your clothing;
and of sensations from your bodily organs, such as the heart and lungs. In addition to these
sensations, you will find, if you introspect carefully enough, that your mind also contains
a number of ideas and imaginings; thoughts about the paragraph you just read or about one of
your lessons. Thus we see that at a time when we apparently focus our attention upon but one
thing, we really have a large number of things in our mind, and they are of a great variety.
The mental field might be represented by a circle, at the centre of which is the object of
attention. It may be an object in the external world perceived through one of the senses, or
it may be an idea we are thinking about, such, for example, as the idea of infinity. But whether
the thing attended to is a perception or an idea, we may properly speak of it as the object
of attention or the "focal" object. In addition to this, we must recognize the presence of
a large number of other objects, both sensory and ideational. These are nearer the margin of
the mental field, so we call them "marginal."

The distinctive thing about a state of mind such as that just described is that the focal object
is much clearer than the marginal objects. For example, when you fixated the letter O, it was
only in the vaguest sort of fashion that you were aware of the contact of your clothing or
the lurking ideas of other lessons. As we examine these marginal objects further, we find that
they are continually seeking to crowd into the centre of attention and to become clear. You
may be helped in forming a vivid picture of conditions if you think of the mind as a stream
ever in motion, and as it flows on, the objects in it continually shift their positions. A
cross-section of the stream at any moment may show the contents of the mind arranged in a particular
pattern, but at the very next moment they may be arranged in a different pattern, another object
occupying the focus, while the previous tenant is pushed to the margin. Thus we see that it
is a tendency of the mind to be forever changing. If left to itself, it would be in ceaseless
fluctuation, the whim of every passing fancy. This tendency to fluctuate comes with more or
less regularity, some psychologists say every second or two. True, we do not always yield to
the fluctuating tendency, nevertheless we are recurrently tempted, and we must exercise continuous
effort to keep a particular object at the focus. The power to exert effort and to regulate
the arrangement of our states of mind is the peculiar gift of man, and is a prime function
of education. Viewed in this light, then, we see that the voluntary focusing of our attention
consists in the selecting of certain objects to be attended to, and the ignoring of other objects
which act as distractions. We may conveniently classify the latter as external sensations,
bodily sensations and irrelevant ideas.

Let us take an actual situation that may arise in study and see how this applies. Suppose you
are in your room studying about Charlemagne, a page of your history text occupying the centre
of your attention. The marginal distractions in such a case would consist, first, in external
sensations, such as the glare from your study-lamp, the hissing of the radiator, the practising
of a neighboring vocalist, the rattle of passing street-cars. The bodily distractions might
consist of sensations of weariness referred to the back, the arms and the eyes, and fainter
sensations from the digestive organs, heart and lungs. The irrelevant ideas might consist of
thoughts about a German lesson which you are going to study, visions of a face, or thoughts
about some social engagement. These marginal objects are in the mind even when you conscientiously
focus your mind upon the history lesson, and, though vague, they try to force their way into
the focus and become clear. The task of paying attention, then, consists in maintaining the
desired object at the centre of the mental field and keeping the distractions away. With this
definition of attention, we see that in order to increase the effectiveness of attention during
study, we must devise means for overcoming the distractions peculiar to study. Obviously the
first thing is to eliminate every distraction possible. Such a plan of elimination may require
a radical rearrangement of study conditions, for students often fail to realize how wretched
their conditions of study are from a psychological standpoint. They attempt to study in rooms
with two or three others who talk and move about continually; they drop down in any spot in
the library and expose themselves needlessly to a great number of distractions. If you wish
to become a good student, you must prepare conditions as favorable as possible for study. Choose
a quiet room to live in, free from distracting sounds and sights. Have your room at a temperature
neither too hot nor too cold; 68° F. is usually considered favorable for study. When reading
in the library, sit down in a quiet spot, with your back to the door, so you will not be tempted
to look up as people enter the room. Do not sit near a group of gossipers or near a creaking
door. Having made the external conditions favorable for study, you should next address yourself
to the task of eliminating bodily distractions. The most disturbing of these in study are sensations
of fatigue, for, contrary to the opinion of many people, study is very fatiguing work and involves
continual strain upon the muscles in holding the body still, particularly those of the back,
neck, arms, hands and, above all, the eyes. How many movements are made by your eyes in the
course of an hour's study! They sweep back and forth across the page incessantly, being moved
by six muscles which are bound to become fatigued. Still more fatigue comes from the contractions
of delicate muscles within the eyeball, where adjustments are made for far and near vision
and for varying amounts of light. The eyes, then, give rise to much fatigue, and, altogether,
are the source of a great many bodily distractions in study.

Other distractions may consist of sensations from the clothing. We are always vaguely aware
of pressure of our clothing. Usually it is not sufficiently noticeable to cause much annoyance,
but occasionally it is, as is demonstrated at night when we take off a shoe with such a sigh
of relief that we realize in retrospect it had been vaguely troubling us all day.

In trying to create conditions for efficient study, many bodily distractions can be eliminated.
The study chair should be easy to sit in so as to reduce fatigue of the muscles supporting
the body; the book-rest should be arranged so as to require little effort to hold the book;
the light should come over the left shoulder. This is especially necessary in writing, so that
the writing hand will not cast a shadow upon the work. The muscles of the eyes will be rested
and fatigue will be retarded if you close the eyes occasionally. Then in order to lessen the
general fatigue of the body, you may find it advantageous to rise and walk about occasionally.
Lastly, the clothing should be loose and unconfining; especially should there be plenty of
room for circulation.

In the overcoming of distractions, we have seen that much may be done by way of eliminating
distractions, and we have pointed out the way to accomplish this to a certain extent. But in
spite of our most careful provisions, there will still be distractions that cannot be eliminated.
You cannot, for example, chloroform the vocalist in the neighboring apartment, nor stop the
street-cars while you study; you cannot rule out fatigue sensations entirely, and you cannot
build a fence around the focus of your mind so as to keep out unwelcome and irrelevant ideas.
The only thing to do then is to accept as inevitable the presence of some distractions, and
to realise that to pay attention, it is necessary to habituate yourself to the ignoring of
distractions.

In the accomplishment of this end it will be necessary to apply the principles of habit formation
already described. Start out by making a strong determination to ignore all distractions. Practise
ignoring them, and do not let a slip occur. Try to develop interest in the object of attention,
because we pay attention to those things in which we are most interested. A final point that
may help you is to use the first lapse of attention as a reminder of the object you desire
to fixate upon. This may be illustrated by the following example: Suppose, in studying a history
lesson, you come upon a reference to the royal apparel of Charlemagne. The word "royal" might
call up purple, a Northwestern University pennant, the person who gave it to you, and before
you know it you are off in a long day-dream leading far from the history lesson. Such migrations
as these are very likely to occur in study, and constitute one of the most treacherous pitfalls
of student life. In trying to avoid them, you must form habits of disregarding irrelevant ideas
when they try to obtrude themselves. And the way to do this is to school yourself so that the
first lapse of attention will remind you of the lesson in hand. It can be done if you keep
yourself sensitive to wanderings of attention, and let the first slip from the topic with which
you are engaged remind you to pull yourself back. Do this before you have taken the step that
will carry you far away, for with each step in the series of associations it becomes harder
to draw yourself back into the correct channel.

In reading, one frequent cause for lapses of attention and for the intrusion of unwelcome ideas
is obscurity in the material being read. If you trace back your lapses of attention, you will
often find that they first occur when the thought becomes difficult to follow, the sentence
ambiguous, or a single word unusual. As a result, the meaning grows hazy in your mind and you
fail to comprehend it. Naturally, then, you drift into a channel of thought that is easier
to follow. This happens because the mental stream tends to seek channels of least resistance.
If you introspect carefully, you will undoubtedly discover that many of your annoying lapses
of attention can be traced to such conditions. The obvious remedy is to make sure that you
understand everything as you read. As soon as you feel the thought growing difficult to follow,
begin to exert more effort; consult the dictionary for the meanings of words you do not understand.
Probably the ordinary freshman in college ought to look up the meaning of as many as twenty
words daily.

Again, the thought may be difficult to follow because your previous knowledge is deficient;
perhaps the discussion involves some fact which you never did comprehend clearly, and you will
naturally fail to understand something built upon it. If deficiency of knowledge is the cause
of your lapses of attention, the obvious remedy is to turn back and study the fundamental facts;
to lay a firm foundation in your subjects of study.

This discussion shows that the conditions at time of concentrated attention are very complex;
that the mind is full of a number of things; that your object as a student is to keep some
one thing at the focus of your mind, and that in doing so you must continuously ignore other
mental contents. 

As tonic water is going to some in Germany or France, then a season pass to shore at Biarritz
or Trouville in Brighton, and end the summer, before returning to this town and court, in a
magnificent chateau or anything like that, that we possess, if possible, in a strange land,
and when not, although this is less comm'il faut, in our Spanish homeland.

This is the ultimate aristocratic ideal to which we aspire as regards all summer. To do fully offered
many obstacles. The most common is to have no château, or anything remotely similar to it, or the Peninsula
or in the vast expanse of Europe, but this lack is supplied or are obscured if we have a cottage,
a farmhouse or a farm, which, speaking in French château can be described without much scruple.

Still,
however, is too often the family elegant, stylish or fumes, no home
where the smoke come from, ie does not even farm.

If you have a friend or relative, the family can take advantage of friendship or kinship. If
There is not no way farmhouse is deleted the purely rustic resort is limited to the hydropathic,
sweet, salty, or both. That is to mean that not having chateau or farmhouse to spend a month,
used all the time in the bathrooms, though no family never bathe. Just take the waters by
inhalation, breathing, say, Atlantic breezes in that Biarritz in San Juan de Luz, San Sebastian,
Santander or Deva.

Finally, if the desire to be eclipsed in recent months afflict too much heat, and the stock is
so drained, that there is not to go swimming or Motrico sea view,
is gone elegant, stylish family or to any place in La Mancha, where
sometimes the plain and unadorned, and no trees or shrubs of the field,
mimics the sea, and the grasshoppers, crabs and fish and there he
is taking all their fresh flavor, until it is the opportune time and
season return to Madrid without violating the laws and liturgies of
good tone.

There are families, but I just want him to believe, who says, not to violate such laws and liturgies,
as that will make travel and discreet and are surreptitiously economic here in very severe
confinement, having this line of martyrdom, to be conducive to deity whom they worship, which
is the fashion.

Anyway, now really, and using tricks and resources of some sophistical, this is the If in the months
of July, August and September in Madrid is only known person.

People who are, it says in worship style, which are not known to imply are not the cream of society,
of the flower and cream.

Otherwise, very well known are usually those who have gone, not a few of which fit into the
limits of probability, and sometimes it likely that the money due to them who left, or footwear
or clothing that is decked in the bathrooms.
 Make a list of the things that most persistently distract your attention during
study. What specific steps will you take to eliminate them; to ignore the unavoidable ones?

CHAPTER IX

HOW WE REASON

If you were asked to describe the most embarrassing of your class-room experiences, you would
probably cite the occasions when the instructor asks you a series of questions demanding close
reasoning. As he pins you down to statement of facts and forces you to draw valid conclusions,
you feel in a most perplexed frame of mind. Either you find yourself unable to give reasons,
or you entangle yourself in contradictions. In short, you flounder about helplessly and feel
as though the bottom of your ship of knowledge has dropped out. And when the ordeal is over
and you have made a miserable botch of a recitation which you thought you had been perfectly
prepared for, you complain that "if the instructor had followed the book," or "if he had asked
straight questions," you would have answered every one perfectly, having memorized the lesson
"word for word."

This complaint, so often voiced by students, reveals the fundamental characteristic which distinguishes
the mental operation of reasoning from the others we have studied. In reasoning we face a new
kind of situation presenting difficulties not encountered in the simpler processes of sensation,
memory, and imagery, and when we attempt to substitute these simple processes for reasoning,
we fail miserably, for the two kinds of processes are essentially different, and cannot be
substituted one for the other.

Broadly speaking, the mental activities of study may be divided into two groups, which, for
want of better names, we shall call processes of acquisition and processes of construction.
The mental attitude of the first is that of acquirement. "Sometimes our main business seems
to be to acquire knowledge; certain matters are placed before us in books or by our teachers,
and we are required to master them, to make them part of our stock of knowledge. At other times
we are called upon to use the knowledge we already possess in order to attain some end that
is set before us." "In geography, for example, so long as we are merely learning the bare facts
of the subject, the size and contours of the different continents, the political divisions,
the natural features, we are at the acquisitive stage." "But when we go on to try to find out
the reasons why certain facts that we have learned should be as they are and not otherwise,
we pass to the constructive stage. We are working constructively when we seek to discover why
it is that great cities are so often found on the banks of rivers, why peninsulas more frequently
turn southward than northward." You readily see that this constructive method of study involves
the setting and solving of problems as its distinguishing feature, and that in the solution
of these problems we make use of reason.

A little reflection will show that though there is a distinct difference between processes
of acquisition and of construction, nevertheless the two must not be regarded as entirely separate
from each other. "In acquiring new facts we must always use a little reason, while in constructive
work, we cannot always rely upon having all the necessary matter ready to hand. We have frequently
to stop our constructive work for a little in order to acquire some new facts that we find
to be necessary. Thus we acquire a certain number of new facts while we are reasoning about
things, and while we are engaged in acquiring new matter we must use our reason at least to
some small extent." The two overlap, then. But there is a difference between them from the
standpoint of the student, and the terms denote two fundamentally different attitudes which
students take in study. The two attitudes may be illustrated by contrasting the two methods
often used in studying geometry. Some students memorize the theorem and the steps in the demonstration,
reciting them verbatim at class-hour. Others do not memorize, but reason out each step to see
its relation to the preceding step, and when they see it must necessarily follow, they pass
on to the next and do the same. These two types of students apparently arrive at the same conclusions,
but the mental operations leading up to the Q.E.D. of each are vastly different. The one student
does his studying by the rote memory method, the other by the road of reasoning. The former
road is usually considered the easier, and so we find it most frequently followed. To memorize
a table, a definition, or a series of dates is relatively easy. One knows exactly where one
is, and can keep track of one's progress and test one's success. Some people are attracted
by such a task and are perfectly happy to follow this plan of study. The kind of mind that
contents itself with such phonographic records, however, must be acknowledged to be a commonplace
sort of affair. We recognize its limitations in ordinary life, invariably rating it lower than
the mind that can reason to new conclusions and work independently. Accordingly, if we wish
to possess minds of superior quality, we see that we must develop the reasoning processes.

When we examine the mental processes by which we think constructively, or, in other words,
reason, we find first of all that there is recognition of a problem to be solved. When we start
to reason, we do it because we find ourselves in a situation from which we must extricate ourselves.
The situation may be physical, as when our automobile stops suddenly on a country road; or
it may be mental, as when we are deciding what college to attend. In both cases, we recognize
that we are facing a problem which must be solved.

After recognition of the problem, our next step is to start vigorous efforts to solve it. In
doing this, we cast about for means; we summon all the powers at our disposal. In the case
of the automobile, we call to mind other accidents and the causes of them; we remember that
once the spark-plug played out, so we test this hypothesis. At another time some dust got into
the carburetor, so we test this. So we go on, calling up possible causes and applying appropriate
remedies until the right one is found and the engine is started. In bringing to bear upon the
problem facts from our past experience, we form a series of judgments. In the case of the problem
as to what college to attend, we might form these judgments: this college is nearer home; that
one has a celebrated faculty; this one has good laboratories; that one is my father's alma
mater. So we might go on, bringing up all the facts regarding the problem and fitting each
one mentally to see how it works. Note that this utilization of ideas should not consist merely
of fumbling about in a vague hope of hitting upon some solution. It must be a systematic search,
guided by carefully chosen ideas. For example, "if the clock on the mantle-piece has stopped,
and we have no idea how to make it go again, but mildly shake it in the hope that something
will happen to set it going, we are merely fumbling. But if, on moving the clock gently so
as to set the pendulum in motion, we hear it wobbling about irregularly, and at the same time
observe that there is no ticking of any kind, we come to the conclusion that the pendulum has
somehow or other escaped the little catch that connects it with the mechanism, we have been
really thinking. From the fact that the pendulum wobbles irregularly, we infer that it has
lost its proper catch. From the fact that there is no ticking, we infer the same thing, for
even when there is something wrong with the clock that will prevent it from going permanently,
if the pendulum is set in motion by force from without it will tick for a few seconds before
it comes to rest again. The important point to observe is that there must be inference. This
is always indicated by the word therefore or its equivalent. If you reach a conclusion without
having to use or at any rate to imply a therefore, you may take it for granted that you have
not been really thinking, but only jumping to conclusions."

This process of putting facts in the form of judgments and drawing inferences, may be likened
to a court-room scene where arguments are presented to the judge. As each bit of evidence is
submitted, it is subjected to the test of its applicability to the situation or to similar
situations in the past. It is rigidly examined and nothing is accepted as a candidate for the
solution until it is found by trial (of course, in imagination) to be pertinent to the situation.

The third stage of the reasoning process comes when some plan which has been suggested as a
possible solution of the difficulty proves effective, and we make the decision; the arguments
support or overthrow each other, adding to and eliminating various considerations until finally
only one course appears possible. As we said before, the solution comes inevitably, as represented
by the word therefore. Little active work on our part is necessary, for if we have gone through
these other phases properly the decision will make itself. And
so, dismissed the governor turned away.

Guapay crossing the river, back to Tarija, they surrounded a large crowd of infidels, begging
founded a reduction in that place for care and attention to the good
of their souls, word given to them soon embrace all Christ's law.

Did not seem good to the Missionaries leave unhappy, therefore, raising at that place a ranch,
held, at the sight of the people, the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, and because one day dedicated
to the Presentation in the Temple of Our Lady the Virgin placed under his patronage, and this
with both applause and delight of the natives, who ran the voice
of what happened to the other settlements, many caciques offered to
found Ranches with all his subjects.

Parents departed from here in Tarija to provide what is necessary to carry out that company,
and God our Lord, to reward past work and encourage them in their service in the hardships they
had to suffer on, then gave them the fruit of blessing barely born when transplanted into the heavenly
garden, this was just a child was washed stain of original sin in
the waters of Holy Baptism, when incontinently flew to enjoy God forever.

Was

unmatched comfort of these holy men with so noble gain, but not less demon rage such good guess
the great detriment principles that had to follow their interests, and if the Christian faith
and credit were gaining followers lose before long the domain of the country and as the evil and
damage was at the beginning and I could repair, tried with all their effort to root out those
good principles, for which was there on their side some very powerful rebels, both worse than
others his life, the ordinary is more lost in their ways who leaves the faith that who never
professed in his life.

Among these were two chiefs called Urban Garnica and Pedro de Santa Maria, who have for your
pleasure many concubines, had a very bad area in that country take Christ our Lord and his holy
law, which they had to see the country are compelled to abandon or to leave the mire of dishonesty.
Therefore, the enemy moved these infernal and more of the love of the flesh, began to spread
by the vulgar thousand calumnies against missionaries, and those much better for them was believed
the people, saying they were spies enemies, they did not intend to subject to anything other than
the Spanish, and under the pretext to reduce them to the Catholic faith, depriving them of
their ancient liberty, which would soon be hungry and desirous of those pleasures that now quench his
taste, would see their lean meat, behind black and blue from the blows of the new masters, whose
yoke loaded on their necks, along with that of Christ, and proof of that, they still had scars
on the body of strokes that led cruelísimos when Christians, even working day and night without any
compassion, to fill the bags at his expense of their masters, and similar to these other countless
lies told, as I came to tell her to pretend to try. They did not say the air, because now
I want the barbarians had become Christians was in its first fervor, they did much of a dent in
these sayings, however, cold in a little that first fervor, the rebels got their attempt to
stir up the country and angering the people to cast them to the parents and refer them to where
they came.

Already entered the year 1691, left the PP. Juan Bautista de Zea and Diego Centeno by the river
Guapay, to cultivate the new people of the Presentation, and P. Arce to the Salinas Valley,
where he went to great number of infidels, of which many fans and showed him others show him
bad face, sign of things to plotting in his heart, which was to kill him, as to not having been
performed so deterred from evil intent Tarichea Indians.

Apostolic Father sought here is to put things in the recent church but demon, blowing in the heart
of the apostates, the good Father worked in many weeks, which crumbled in a few hours, and
on the appendix to these disasters, he heard that Tobas, cruelísimos enemies of God and the
Spanish, having regard to their attempts, were as weapons, and many came destroying the country,
thus, waiting time on time its fury, they worked with great encouragement to receive death if
God Our Lord, in imitation of his subjects, who ran fame that had fallen into the hands of
those killed to evil and cruelty equal to their ferocity.

But as Our Lord with this misfortune, his servant did not want anything but the first tests and
novitiate of an apostolic life, he soon fade away those fears and there then notice that the PP. Zea
and Rye had come to rescue the people of the Presentation and that the Toba had retired to their lands,
which could certainly happen to Tarichea more haste to dispose the
minds of the people to embrace the holy faith.

Here he was received and hosted with love and benevolence of the local lord, who understood
the cause of his trip, he charged side take all the settlements of
the contour, they came together appointed day all the chiefs to council,
to resolve the business of conversion, and executed and the last day
of July, dedicated to our great Father and Patriarch Ignatius.

And why will the taste of the readers know the ceremonies and how they used in their assembly, give
them a brief and succinct news.

He entered parliament in the dead of night, were beginning to function with a symphony flutes
and fifes, and singing and dancing to the business they reasoned, concluding Each dance lasted
three or four faiths with toast.

At daybreak, although it was very cold wind that chilled, for being here this month heart winter,
they all went to bathe in the river, and to brighten up the party, adorned their heads shaved
tufts beautiful face very ugly color, imagining growing in beauty and beauty, when they seemed
so many devils.

Having already cleared up the day, took a breakfast for breath and spirit to continue their
agreement on the way as before. Who thought, or rather, who dared to hope no favorable resolution
in such a council? But despite that, determined by common consent to admit to their lands to Christ and
his holy law, and sent to give notice of its decision to P. Arce,
who under a bower was entrusted to our Lord with fervor this business,
but they put three conditions: First, that the reduction is based
on that place.

The second, which were not required to be banished from their land who would like to live in the
Gentiles, or to keep many women to use, and the third finally their children were not intended
to serve the Church.

The holy man accepted the party, waiting for the weather, and much more will the blood of Jesus
Christ I would soften the hearts and blessing those fruits of his zeal and his labors promised
them, or were ill-founded hopes for Taricú, paramount, on behalf
of all, thanked him for wanting to be used for the benefit of their
souls, and also gave to Our Lord because he had deigned to send him
no interest to teach them the way to heaven.

And because all this happened, as I said, the day consecrated to NPS Ignacio, tagged P. Reduction
Arce under his sponsorship.

While things are here with a favorable wind, I must give a brief relationship
of the province of Chiquitos, which was founded at the same time,
although so happier, a new Christendom, and will be the main target
of this my relationship.

CHAPTER II.

Location of the province of Chiquitos, customs and qualities of the natives.

The province, whom commonly call the Chiquitos, is an area of ​​land of two hundred hundred miles
long and wide, on the west looks to Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and more away to the missions
of the Moxos, which belong to our province of Peru. By Levante down to the famous Lake Xarayes,
whom he rightly called the first sea Dulce conquerors, because of
its size and grandeur.

Tramontana closes by a large Chain mountains rather long, which ran from the east to west, ending
in the lake. For Chaco looks to the south and to a large lake, or rather, Gulf of the Paraguay
River, which here is a beautiful bay, whose shores are populated by a large variety of trees
and called from its inception this cove or harbor within the Itatines.

To bathe the province of Chiquitos two rivers, one the Guapay, who born in the mountains of
Chuquisaca down on an open plain beside a village in the Chiriguaná called ABAP and running towards
the East, encloses them lengthwise into half-moon, to Santa Cruz de la Sierra; and pulling
here between Normans and the West, water and bathe the plains that are at the foot by both parties,
and finally empties into the Mamore gap in the coast of which are founded some peoples, and Christians
of Moxos. The other, the tools or San Miguel, born in the Alps Peru, and going through the Chiriguanos
(on whose land changes its name into that of Parapity) is eventually lost in a very dense forest,
the many twists and turns until about Santa Cruz la Vieja, which
was founded last year Reduction St. Joseph, and turning between Normans
and west, bathing the San Francisco Xavier reductions and Conception
where straight strip at noon, and receiving in his mother's many streams
contour Reductions passes Baur, who belong to the missions of the
Moxos, and hence will to flow into the Mamore, and this in the great
river of the Maranon, or Amazon.

The country, for the most part is mountainous and populated by very dense forests, very abundant
honey and wax for the great multitude of bees of various species, among which is a Opemús breed
called the most similar to those of Europe, whose honey is odoriferous and fragrant and its
wax-white, although a little soft. Also abound in many monkeys, roosters, turtles, elk, deer,
mountain goats and snakes and vipers of strange poisons, because there are some that bite swell
after the bodies of patients and blood drip for all her limbs, eyes, ears, mouth, nose and even
nails, but the suffering, as check for so many parts that foul humor, does not die. Others
there whose venom (although they bitten on the toe) is up to the point at the head, removing
and depriving forces trial, and hence spreading into the veins inevitably
kill, causing delirium, and so far they have not been able to find
effective relief.

The soil of yours is dry, but in the rainy season, which lasts from December to May, so deformed
drowns the campaign, which closes the trade and are many rivers and
large lakes, which abound in many kinds of fish, which fish with some
pasta that stunned bitter come to the surface of the water.

After the winter dry plains and then to plant it is necessary to remove large working forests
and cultivate the hills and mountain peaks that yield very good corn or Indian wheat, rice,
cotton, sugar, snuff and other fruits typical of the country, as
bananas, pineapples, peanuts, pumpkins (which is a kind of squash,
better and tastier than those in Europe), the grain, however, and
the vita, you can not take on these lands.

The climate is warm and intemperate, apoplectic cause of many accidents and frequent infections
they usually do great in natural curls, because these barbarians do not know how to apply,
but two remedies. The first is sucking sick bodies, trade their own chiefs and captains in their language
called Iriabós, which in this office are a lot of room between natural, all too gain, because
instead of cooking the chicken and other delicious viands for ill, it eats all the sucking, and sick
but do not give ordinary lunch box a handful of corn rather undercooked, and if you do not
want to eat, do not give much care, happy patient's response: why should I eat if I have won?
So I have to me The more die from necessity rather than diseases, which are not related to other aforesaid
doctor to show the painful and tell you where they've gone on record: this passes on to consider
whether the patient has poured chicha (a drink something like beer) it has thrown to the dogs a piece
of turtle meat, deer or other living; and if he is guilty of this crime, said that the souls
of these animals, to avenge his injury he has entered the body, and torments him to measure
his reproach. Where is that give any relief against the suck, or in the soil also give strong
blows to the baton around the patient to scare and drive away her soul. This remains the suffering
as before, if not perhaps happen by chance that heal naturally.

Hase observed in these doctors after receiving Holy Baptism, as much as they can not throw a dirty
and smelly subject as they once did every time suck a member of the patient, giving the devil
for careless in maintaining the implied covenant that they had, because
explicit and some had none.

The other remedy is very cruel and barbaric own, and it was killing women who are persuaded
were the cause of the disease (may be his biggest that they had some light by a woman had entered
the world of death) and throwing them out of this world, be they free thought Tribute to death.
So touting the doctor to tell them what a woman had given them that disease in your body, and
he said it was this or that it is first offered or with whom he had some anger, or their husband
or relatives and taking one to the miserable removed fists and truncheons to life. And still did
not realize the deception, even seeing from experience that did not use anything to escape
death this recipe. It comes from a foolish imagination that diseases are from extrinsic causes
not the interior alteration of moods because they are not able to come to penetrate understanding
is not enough to where the coarseness of the physical senses (owned by all West Indians),
or that are otherwise awake and working for others. And seeing that the Missionaries purges and
cured with salt, did not fully persuaded that the blood and other fluids that feed the bottom
of the man could be corrupted and cause evil effects and bad impressions even in the soul, for
this, for the slightest indisposition they wanted to bleed, and asking his arm, he replied that
not, but their share hurt, had to be bleeding, and experimenting with these remedies improvement
were hand to the old doctors scoffed at his fraud and deceit and cruelty that had execrating
used against women.

They are lively and fiery temperament than the ordinary in these nations, good understanding,
lovers of good, nothing inconsistent or inclined to evil, and so tight to the dictates of
natural reason, and they are among those vices and blemishes sensual meat at every step they look and
cry in other countries and converted Gentiles. His stature is more than the ordinary median,
facial features not unlike ours, although the color is olive, to which is easily distinguished
from Europeans; in the past twenty years, grow their hair, and who has better and larger,
has on a certain beauty other lordly, not breed a beard, but late
and low. This is especially
valuable in such subjects as geology, physiology and botany. Students in botany are compelled
to do much drawing of the plant-forms which they study, and this is a wise requirement, for
it makes them observe more carefully, report more faithfully and recall with greater ease.
You may secure the same advantages by employing the graphic method in other studies. For example,
when reading in a geology text-book about the stratification of the earth in a certain region,
draw the parts described and label them according to the description. You will be surprised
to see how clear the description becomes and how easily it is later recalled.

Let us examine the effects of the expressive movements of speech, writing and the like, and
see the mechanism by which they facilitate the study process. We may describe their effects
in two ways: neurologically and psychologically. As may be expected from our preliminary study
of the nervous system, we see their first effects upon the motor pathways leading out to the
muscles. Each passage of the nerve current from brain to muscle leaves traces so that the resulting
act is performed with greater ease upon each repetition. This fact has already been emphasized
by the warning, Guard the avenues of expression.

Especially is it important at the first performance of an act, because this determines the
path of later performances. In such studies as piano-playing, vocalizing and pronunciation
of foreign words, see that your first performance is absolutely right, then as the expressive
movements are repeated, they will be more firmly ingrained because of the deepening of the
motor pathways.

The next effect of acts of expression is to be found in the modifications made in the sensory
areas of the brain. You will recall that every movement of a muscle produces nervous currents
which go back to the brain and register there in the form of kinaesthetic sensations. To demonstrate
kinaesthetic sensations, close your eyes and move your index finger up and down. You can feel
the muscles contracting and the tendons moving back and forth, even into the back of the hand.
These sensations ordinarily escape our attention, but they occupy a prominent place in the
control of our actions. For example, when ascending familiar stairs in the dark, they notify
us when we have reached the top. We are still further impressed with their importance when
we are deprived of them; when we try to walk upon a foot or a leg that has gone "to sleep";
that is, when the kinaesthetic nerves are temporarily paralyzed we find it difficult to walk.
But besides being used to control muscular actions, they may be used in study, for they may
be made the source of impressions, and impressions, as we learned in the chapter on memory,
are a prime requisite for learning. Each expression becomes, then, through its kinaesthetic
results, the source of new impressions, when, for example, you pronounce the German word, anwenden,
with the English word "to employ," in addition to the impressions made through the ear, you
make impressions through the muscles of speech (kinaesthetic impressions), and these kinaesthetic
impressions enter into the body of your knowledge and later may serve as the means by which
the word may be revived. When you write the word, you make kinaesthetic impressions which may
later serve as forms of revival. So the movements of expression produce sensory material that
may serve as tentacles by means of which you can later reach back into your memory and recall
facts.

We shall now consider another service of expressions which, though little regarded, nevertheless
is of much moment. When we make expressive movements, much nervous energy is generated; much
more than during passive impression. 

XLI

= Cabinet Bringas house.

Nightfall .=

Dismayed .--=( ROSALIA, giving the air with a fan, with a handkerchief, with a newspaper and
everything in by hand.) = A will give me something. It seems that the blood carries me and that
raises me all in your head ... Do not tell me more, man, for Christ's sake, no tell me more.
Heinous immorality stuns me, overwhelms me, makes me crazy ... And
what you saw?

Illusion Would you ...?

THIERS .-- As he had not see! In the car was quiet, well sheltered at, not saying This mouth
is mine, and so happy that threw light on the eyes ...

ROSALIA .-- And you had the patience to witness such a scandal?

... With that you can not do his wife because she is a ... and make your darling ...! I am blown
... So great shame our family, this family honored and exemplary few, drives me crazy ... = (Looking
at you hard.) = "And do not say anything?," put up with in your beard
...?

.--=( THIERS Preparing to tell a fib.) = So my outrage was when
Augustine me I said ... because he had the shamelessness to confess
his weakness ... I was outraged as well, I said four things and I
turned my back and I left the station.

ROSALIA .--=( Met.) = So did you? Of course, you could not restrain your anger. He came back
back, you left the word in the mouth ...

.--=( THIERS Asking God for forgiveness mind your lies.) = As I tell you. The truth is that we
can not treat more with my cousin. Who had to say!, Moderate man, everything I wanted to take the
spearhead, and miss the good principles, kicking the Society, Religion,
Family, venerating to everything, in short!

... If it is I say: the approaching dislocations. This goes to the trap. The revolution is not
long; come the spoils of the rich, atheism, free love.

ROSALIA .-- come, and I think it will come, and more ... When horrors are so incredible, everything
can wait. = (Sofocadísima.) = No cataclysm and take me again.

.--=( THIERS Melancholy.) = Just have eyes to see that this society
quickly loses respect for all.

Made public derision of the throne and the altar, the rot of demoralization rife, and when I
see that mine is free of infection, it seems a miracle.

ROSALIA .--=( Pensive.) = Did not he say whether he would return with the precious cargo to
his mistress?

THIERS .-- Yes, again, again ...

ROSALIA .--=( With extraordinary swelling of the nose.) = I do not
want to stay in my within four truths that I say from one to the other.

Oh, no, no I will. I will be able to go to France to Beijing vent my anger ...

THIERS .-- The best day I have here as campers ... and live as married,
insulting to honesty, virtue ... We see each atrocity ... Joaquin
said it very clearly Paquito and the other afternoon, shattering the
pick and the incendiary torch are prepared.

The demagoguery ...!

Oh, I forgot one important thing. Something we are winning. He told
me that fool you could have everything that was purchased for the
wedding.

CAUTION .--=( from the door.) = Lady soup.

ROSALIA .--=(
addition, losing his looks in the portrait of Juan de Pipaón, is represented
with a roll of paper in his hand.) = return. Here I want to have,
here! ... Leech of the blessed, we will see the faces.

END OF TORMENT.

Madrid.
January 1884. This is the embarrassment
incident to some forms of expression, notably oral. Many people are deterred from utilizing
this form of expression because of shyness and embarrassment in the presence of others. If
you have this difficulty in such excess that it hinders you from free expression, resolve at
once to overcome it. Begin at the very outset of your academic career to form habits of disregarding
your impulses to act in frightened manner. Take a course in public speaking. The practice thus
secured will be a great aid in developing habits of fearless and free oral expression.

This discussion has shown that expression is a powerful aid in learning, and is a most important
feature of mental life. Cultivate your powers of expression, for your college education should
consist not only in the development of habits of impression, but also in the development of
habits of expression. Grasp eagerly every opportunity for the development of skill in clear
and forceful expression. Devote assiduous attention to themes and all written work, and make
serious efforts to speak well. Remember you are forming habits that will persist throughout
your life. Emphasize, therefore, at every step, methods of expression, for it is this phase
of learning in which you will find greatest growth.

EXERCISE

Exercise I. Give an example from your own experience, showing how expression (a) stimulates
ideas, (b) clarifies ideas.

CHAPTER XI

HOW TO BECOME INTERESTED IN A SUBJECT

"I can't get interested in Mediaeval History." This illustrates a kind of complaint frequently
made by college students. It is our purpose in this chapter to show the fallacy of this; to
prove that interest may be developed in an "uninteresting" subject; and to show how.

In order to lay a firm foundation for our psychologizing, let us examine into the nature of
interest and see what it really is. It has been defined as: "the recognition of a thing which
has been vitally connected with experience before--a thing recognized as old"; "impulse to
attend"; "interest naturally arouses tendencies to act"; "the root idea of the term seems to
be that of being engaged, engrossed, or entirely taken up with some activity because of its
recognized worth"; "interest marks the annihilation of the distance between the person and
the materials and results of his action; it is the sign of their organic union."

In addition to the characteristics just mentioned should be noted the pleasurableness that
usually attends any activity in which we are "interested." A growing feeling of pleasure is
the sign which notifies us that we are growing interested in a subject. And it is such an aid
in the performance of work that we should seek earnestly to acquire it in connection with any
work we have to do.

The persons who make the complaint at the head of this chapter notice that they take interest
easily in certain things: a Jack London story, a dish of ice cream, a foot-ball game. And they
take interest in them so spontaneously and effortlessly that they think these interests must
be born within them.

When we examine carefully the interests of man, and trace their sources, we see that the above
view is fallacious. We acquire most of our interests in the course of our experience.

Since interests are largely products of experience, then, it follows that if we wish to have
an interest in a given subject, we must consciously and purposefully develop it. There is wide
choice open to us. We may develop interest in early Victorian literature, prize-fight promoting,
social theory, lignitic rocks, history of Siam, the collection of scarabs, mediaeval history.

We should not be deceived by the glibness of the above statements into assuming that the development
of interest is an easy matter. It requires adherence to certain definite psychological laws
which we may call the laws of interest. The first may be stated as follows: In order to develop
interest in a subject, secure information about it. The force of this law will be apparent
as soon as we analyze one of our already-developed interests. Let us take one that is quite
common--the interest which a typical young girl takes in a movie star. Her interest in him
comes largely from what she has been able to learn about him; the names of the productions
in which he has appeared, his age, the color of his automobile, his favorite novel. Her interest
may be said actually to consist, at least in part, of these facts. The astute press agent knows
the force of this law, and at well-timed intervals he lets slip through bits of information
about the star, which fan the interest of the fair devotee to a still whiter heat.

The relation of information to interest is still further illustrated by the case of the typical
university professor or scientist. He is interested in certain objects of research--infusoria,
electrons, plant ecology,--because he knows so much about them. His interest may be said to
consist partly of the body of knowledge that he possesses. He was not always interested in
the specific, obscure field, but by saturating himself in facts about it, he has developed
an interest in it amounting to passionate absorption, which manifests itself in "absent-mindedness"
of such profundity as to make him often an object of wonder and ridicule.

Let us demonstrate the application of the law again showing how interest may be developed in
a specific college subject. Let us choose one that is generally regarded as so "difficult"
and "abstract" that not many people are interested in it--philology, the study of language
as a science. Let us imagine that we are trying to interest a student of law in this. As a
first step we shall select some legal term and show what philology can tell about it. A term
frequently encountered in law is indenture--a certain form of contract. Philological researches
have uncovered an interesting history regarding this word. It seems that in olden days when
two persons made an agreement they wrote it on two pieces of paper, then notched the edges
so that when placed together, the notches on the edge of one paper would just match those of
the other. This protected both parties against substitution of a fraudulent contract at time
of fulfillment.

Still earlier in man's development, before he could write, it was customary to record such
agreements by breaking a stick in two pieces and leaving the jagged ends to be fitted together
at time of fulfillment. Sometimes a bone was used this way. Because its critical feature was
the saw-toothed edge, this kind of contract was called indenture (derived from the root dent--tooth,
the same one from which we derive our word dentist).

The formal, legal-looking document which we today call an indenture gives us no hint of its
humble origin, but the word when analyzed by the technique of philology tells the whole story,
and throws much light upon the legal practices of our forbears. Having discovered one such
valuable fact in philology, the student of law may be led to investigate the science still
further and find many more. As a result still he will become interested in philology.

By this illustration we have demonstrated the first psychological law of interest, and also
its corollary which is: State the new in terms of the old. For we not only gave our lawyer
new information culled from philological sources; we also introduced our fact in terms of an
old fact which was already "interesting" to the lawyer. This is recognized as such an important
principle in education that it has become embodied in a maxim: Proceed from the known to the
unknown.

A classic example of good educational practice in this connection is the way in which Francis
W. Parker, a progressive educator of a former generation, taught geography. When he desired
to show how water running over hard rocky soil produced a Niagara, he took his class down to
the creek behind the school house, built a dam and allowed the water to flow over it. When
he wished to show how water flowing over soft ground resulted in a deltoid Nile, he took the
class to a low, flat portion of the creek bed and pointed out the effect. The creek bed constituted
an old familiar element in the children's experience. Niagara and the Nile described in terms
of it were intelligible.

Naturally in modern educational practice it is not always possible to have miniature waterfalls
and river bottoms at hand, still it is possible to follow this principle. When, in studying
Mediaeval History, you read a description of the guilds, do not regard them as distant, cold,
inert institutions devoid of significance in your life. Rather, think of them in terms of things
you already know: modern Labor Unions, technical schools, in so far as the comparison holds
good. Then trace their industrial descendants down to the present time. By thus thinking about
the guilds, hitherto distant and uninteresting, you will begin to see them suffused with meaning,
alight with significance, a real part of yourself. In short, you will have achieved interest.

There is still another psychological law of interest: In order to develop interest in a subject,
exert activity toward it. We see the force of this law when we observe a man in the process
of developing an interest in golf. At the start he may have no interest in it whatever; he
may even deride it. 

Count, at length, the dangers of falling into the hands of enemies, not less of God than of
Spanish, shipwrecked on rocks, running aground on the sand, the contrariety of winds, storms
in the water and air, it would never end, it seemed that all hell had touched the gun and left
the pit to prevent every possible effort to the successful achievement this journey, and God,
whose judgments, as David said, are a bottomless pit, let no be accomplished with an undertaking
as required of many towns and cities.

The first contrast they had was the perfidy of the Payaguá, who entertained with good words and show
signs of burning desire to be Christians, tried to surprise treacherously, take away the lives,
and they and the Christian Indians that led, and by setting fire to the ship, steal and take advantage
of the iron nails, but frustrated his wicked secret plan by notice some less inhuman between
them, and yet had dared to go out in the open against them in their canoes very slight body of two hundred
Indians, who, as we shall see below, finally managed to catch them
off guard and kill treacherously.

Later, Guaycurús, valiant people, but sworn enemies of Christ's name and Spanish, at all times
and places, for much of the road space, day and night I played the passage with the weapons and
were always on the lookout to see if they could give upon them and seize the boat and catch or kill
or passengers, and once, to not have, by God's mercy, suddenly a wind up leading the ship to another
place, infallibly have fallen into their hands, resulting in a trap hundreds of these Guaycurús,
that hidden in the water down her throat, waiting to give them, to which the ship to put an bowline
to pass a narrow entrance, which have lowered the flood, it was very
difficult riding.

Finally got rid of its ongoing raids at the expense of a rich present
of knives, wedges iron and a few yards of linen, which the people
of the Guarani sending of alms to the Christianity of the Chiquitos.

Finally, the winds, always contrary, forced them to walk by dint of rowing, and a times the ship
aground on the sand, they were obliged to refloat, to walk away,
transporting cargo to the shore, and others, giving on the rocks,
made them walk in continuous fright and shock.

To this are added the language to take care of the Chiquitos, road and fell whither those missions,
and the infidels, industry, gave them a thousand new happy that came to stop, finally, jeers and
taunts, and God, whose judgments are unsearchable, not allowed which
would give them recognize the beach to the north, where Fr Juan Patricio
Fernández had left some signals, which could be aimed at the reduction
of San Rafael.

And so, sailing to all parts of the river in continual drive, without rest or respite, spent
about seven months to mid August, but did not suffer the heart to overzealous P. Arce frustrate
this journey and many hardships as they had happened the past years took a decision that could
only excuse for his reckless ardientísimo zeal for souls, their trust in God and the love he had to
these missions, as the first Apostle of them, and was that left the boat and picked twelve Indians,
the brave and fervent in faith, undertook travel by land with strong encouragement to seek
the Chiquitos Reductions, even if in danger of falling into the hands
of the barbarians who took his life, or to starve and thirst for those
deserts and unknown lands.

What I suffered in that way for two months, how many fatigues, many
jobs and penalties, not to speak with my words, I will here part of
the relationship did five of his fellow Indians on this trip.

Say, then, and in their relationship:

Father picking up his cross, broke ground Mamore, with four Indians, giving order to the others
that are not from there. A few days later we received a note of hers, which he told us we followed
the other eight, and after a few days away, a smoke we saw in the
distance, we knew where we were, and arrived, we were welcomed with
open arms but we did not have all day to reach the mouth.

Seeing the anguish and work of the Father, we went back four to the
ship, and taking some food, returned to seek the Father with all haste,
We found a just, because others, not having what to eat, had gone
to a rabbit fencing with fire.

With so many jobs and lack of food and drink had been such that only
her skin on bone.

It was amazing the joy you had when you saw us, hugging, bathing their tears in his eyes.

We continued the trip, walking a day by a very thick forest, and such
was the thicket they did not know where we were.

Being the Father in this anguish, not knowing what to do or where
to turn, told us:

- Children, who were tired of the work, turn the
boat.

They replied all with one accord, which were prepared to follow him
wherever he went; that day we had no other water to drink but a swamp
of terrible smell.

We walked to the shore of the Paraguay River, where having hunted a deer, we were afflicted the
lack of water, but digging one of our colleagues a well, by great
providence of God, to two fathoms discovered a vein of water.

We spent the night here, and entering the following day in a thick wood, we were obliged lead the
way with great fatigue and sweat to get out of him to open campaign.

Then judged P. Joseph already eaten and we were tired of so much trouble and penalties, so we turned
to say:

- He who wishes to become, turn in good time, I am determined to go forward and to fulfill the will
of God and my superiors. One or more years in these forests walk if God wants me to stay alive
until the desired doneness.

If you find infidels we will stand between them and teach them God's law.

Such verve and such encouragement was the P. Joseph, afflicted with hunger, thirst, fatigue, and
of nudity (because they're sleeping next to the fire burned his poor
cassock) caused no small wonder that, being so lacking in strength,
was barely standing, not doubt lead Later, much to his expense, a
business so difficult and almost desperate.

Encouraged by his breath and spirit, we entered a thick forest, where
the holy man, from by shrubs and trees, armed with spines harsh everywhere,
let those rags of his robe that had escaped the fire, falling at every
step without being able to lift, with that was necessary to shake
his hand.

In this way, with great fatigue, we reached a river where some fish recovered fished, where we
stopped shortly before had been an army of infidels.

I was already so finishing forces Fr Joseph, who was very little I could walk, and between Thus
several days went by without his mouth but a little wild fruit.

It was admirable patience and serenity of mind in these sets, without
showing the slightest feeling when I had nothing to eat, spending
time absorbed in God, and every morning, before set out, knelt a long
distance.

We found some wild fruit that only made us eat the extreme necessity.

Some browsers that were discovered before a smoke in the distance, that we all great joy.

In early October, we stopped at the edge of a river, where we could make good with fish and turtles
that are at a lagoon. We continued on and we totally missed the food and drink, and we had nothing
to give to the Father but some palmettos, who first served us food,
but after experiencing evil purposes, causing great pain to the Father
of the stomach, and inflammation of the bowels fierce with thirst
ardientísima.

In this condition he ran both the forces and consumed so believing it to be already reached
the end of his life, begged us to lead him on the banks of a river, and leaving us there we
returned to Paraguay.

Hallámonos in great distress, not only why we said, because his face
was as over corpse of living body and wanting comfort, could not utter
a word because they have been swollen tongue.

We, those most hurt to the loss of life of the Father as our own, said resolutely he wanted to
stay in all jobs, and even their lives if necessary.

Recobróse a little, and giving encouragement to the nature of the
force of spirit, he set out falling and rising at every step, and
the fourth day, finding a bit of wild honey, it Father present to
slake the thirst.

Being one of us in a tree, he saw a cloud of smoke toward the west,
which had done Indian Christian P. Zea back from the shores of the
Paraguay river, as we discovered later; and walking over there, we
wanted to take the Father in a hammock, because he feared much few
steps if he would fall dead on his feet, but he refused saying he
wanted to have with us until the last moment of his life.

The next day was Friday, we did not find anything to eat, and Saturday, by God's providence, we
took some hunting and a turtle for the Father.

At last it pleased God to comfort, uncovering the desired path as the Chiquitos. Amazing was
the joy that was the holy man, not ceasing to give thanks, and encourage one to tears in the
eyes to see us do the same, intoned the Litany of Our Lady, and coming
soon after the place where the day before had said Mass P. Juan Bautista
de Zea, we gathered together at all, and more tears than words, he
thanked us many jobs as we passed it, and that his life would remember
us.

This comfort became worth recognizing that lost their holy Christ
and searched all parts could not be found, and all that night they
hit the eyes at the loss of their Lord, who had given so much encouragement
and strength to those anxieties, until the desired doneness.

The next day we had water supplies and fish, and we encounter with two Christians who had The
portable altar P. Zea, we headed there. What were the greetings and happiness of these two apostolic
missionaries to be together after so many hardships, we can not explain,
because the more they talked with her eyes and sighs with the language.

So

far the relationship of the Indians.

Q. Just arrived Arce to San Rafael, when not taking a break to recover, by P. advice Superior,
set off towards the lagoon Mamore, whose path, though more short, it was like the past.

Arrived there was the possible measures to find the P. Blende and the boat, but was in vain,
because this, after having waited a long time, it was obligated to violence from their peers.

At
this time received a letter from P. Vice-Provincial in which he warned
that waiting for him, because wanted to embark.

Answered, P. Arce was stopped in San Rafael Reverence, that he would
in a canoe to the Payaguá, who have already won for his encouragement
and affection, promised to lead him to Asuncion, where in April the
following year, again to take you.

Do not wait for an answer Fr Provincial, but then went on the road
to Mamore along with Fr Zea, who after five months of laborious missions
in those deserts, offered to serve as a guide, and what is most admired
because he was determined, if not The boat was soon P. Arce, to make
a few canoes and drive them to P. Vice-Provincial to the Assumption,
through many dangers and enemies.

But God Our Lord accepted the wishes of P. Vice-Provincial for reward, but not execution, because
he had fallen into the hands of those barbarians who had him at his own discretion pieces.

Just had walked thirty-three or thirty-four leagues, when loaded so
rain and found as deep swamps that could not go ahead, but obvious
danger to be drowned there, and some said they brought the Guarani
P. Vice-Provincial.

CHAPTER XVII

Are killed by the Parent Payaguá Maple and Bartholomew Joseph Blende and gives a brief account
of his virtues.

After the P. Arce Father departed from the ground to find Blende Missions the Chiquitos, he
waited two months in that place, resolved not to take away from first news of his partner, but
two who were with the Spanish P. Blende, one, pilot and the other
captain of the people, disgusted long before the P. Arce because they
were prohibited the purchase of slaves, began to upset such a long
detention, and with real or apparent reasons, made the request to
P. Blende for a return.

At first he refused resolutely, exhorting them to suffer those hardships and work for the love
of God, but not ceasing words, laments, complaints and even threats also to leave only at the
discretion of so many barbarians who live along the coast, we was
necessary to indulge them.

Understood in this resolution by Quatí, chief of the Payaguá, they
went after them, so he and their vassals, with the intention of living
in the Guarani Reductions, and become Christians; but recognizing
that among his people were still some, whose leader was a Christian
apostate Ambrosio, who were obstinate in their freedom to live, and
were the relatives of Demon and wizards, decided to depart from them
and go ahead with their mob in their canoes, which are very slight.

He also persuaded others of his nation, bordering with the city of
Asunción to continue resolution, and all together, happy and contented
continued the journey.

In this state was the conversion of these souls so lost and all happy hoped event if the common
enemy would not have marred attempts by those perfidious apostates.

Alegre, therefore, the holy man, and happy with the profit that he
thought he had achieved, given background at sunset, near a ravine,
called task, where those traitors will came to visit, giving fake
tokens of love and repentance.

The Father who wanted nothing, received them with affection that he loved the good of their
souls, and tried, with all industries apostolic zeal, confirm those good intentions.

The Payaguá to better disguise their treachery, begged him to carry
his rabble on the boat they would follow in their canoes.

A fresh wind rose and the boat moved forward both to the canoes of his lightning-fast, that just
three days we were able to reach, being continually suspicious Barbarians that they were allayed
your attempts, and not exposed to risk losing the set, is put everyone
on the boat, with the pretext that the Father would give them some
food.

The first who entered was a young man named Cotaga, son of a great sorcerer, which had Father
great affection, and he will win always sat beside her.

This, then, came and stood next to the Father, as usual, another stood
next to a Spanish who ruled the helm, and looking towards an ax or
hatchet, which was nearby, they sat on it concealed, and making signs
to each other, which hid the ax fell her hand with great skill, and
throwing the driver, at one stroke cut off his head.

At the same time Cotaga fell on the parents not to take place, to defend themselves and another
with a mighty blow split his head through and saw him still beating, I downloaded more furiously
the second, then the other traitors rushed to the converts, and soon
gave cruel death, and an Indian named Francisco Guarayo, helping to
mass to the Father they killed him released.

After jumping for joy at this ugly treason, they cut all the heads
and put the bodies lying on the shore of an island where the river
putting Amid all the happy to P. Blende, set fire to the boat to remove
the nails of iron and sacred ornaments and other jewelry designed
for the new church of Chiquitos, after the mockery and scorn, the
pieces made, each taking the party to quota so wicked and sacrilegious
plundering booty.

Were not satisfied with these enemies of God and His law with such
horrible treason before making them more encouragement, instigation
of the devil and the witches, were prevented to last act of the tragedy
with the death of P. Arce to fend off if those who rebuked them their
bestial behavior, and prevent its along the nation embrace the holy
faith, by which were made to search out where he had to pass the Father.

This,

then, having failed to find the boat, having made his best one small boat, boarded it with thirteen
newcomers, his most faithful companions in many risks and dangers, at the beginning of December.

Walked prosperously for many days, until he came to this island which
lay stretched beach cadavers, and noted that a recently dead bodies,
the Indians jumped on land and acknowledged that they were his companions.

What

a feeling of comfort and tears caused the martyred holy man to see his companion, and secondly what
would pain of having lost, it is easier to explain discourse; embraced
him, tears of holy Banyoles envy, and would have gladly taken it,
to have been able to do the boat.

Did not know that God wanted to give soon, with such a crown, the
reward of many jobs and hardships suffered by increasing their glory
and the good of souls.

Viewing the carnage neophytes, they said:

- Father, turn around, because they are bitter Payaguá us and kill
us, as have done with others.

- That's not - 'Father - because we
are now very distant, God is with us, because love that we have been
on the road.

They wanted, at least the Indians prevent weapons, and our Guarani their muskets. Even this allowed,
saying he wanted to die for Christ, and encouraged them with words of fire to sacrifice their
lives to God, saying:

- If our work and sweat has not been sufficient to lead to the desired end is company, he makes up
at least with the blood work they could do more pleasing to God or
more profitable to themselves, to lose their lives in witness to the
faith they professed; that did not lose that crown offered to them
and that many were looking for without having lucky to find it, and
that would soon eternally happy in heaven, with only Goodwill offer
their heads to the clubs of Payaguá.

For this reason those good Christians were encouraged to ignore their temporal life and imitate
the example and courage of the holy missionary.

They went a little farther, when he suddenly fell into the snares of those wicked, leaving them
with alacrity to meet him, clung to the first set and took the boat
ashore, the first that came in it was that damned Indian Cotaga, who
came to P. Arce, he took to the beach throwing hard on the ground
and very little was necessary because it was consumed and strength
and was standing only as encouragement and fervor of his spirit gave
him courage and vigor then drew his baton that sacrilegious infidel,
and gave him such a fierce blow in the head that took her life to
the point, unable to say anything but:

- My children, much loved,
why do this?

At this time in the city of Asuncion on RPM Fr Joseph Zerzan, commander of the convent Our Lady of
Mercy, very close friend of the servant of God, having been his pupil
in philosophy, saw him enter his cell and told him with tender affection

-
Son, encomiéndame God, because I am in great distress.

This happened just before you kill them, according to the computation which is then made, for
which the next day ordered his subjects them to say Mass for your
intention, and was forced discover the cause by the countenance was
pale and colorless.

After those evil committed this barbarous treachery, gave their classmates Fr Joseph, who, moved
and, in his words, and more from his example, let kill no resistance, making this act of generosity
and gentleness, when so easily, though so few, they could defend
themselves and the Father with muskets brought.

But God did not want to die all, that we had the joyous news of luck
these two operators apostles some, therefore, left with life, rather
than condemned to perpetual slavery.

The killers carried the body of P. Arce to the other side of the river, and gave him Guaycurús
to those who had also added fuel to the fire, and taken part in this cruel crime.

They took the corpse of the holy martyr and raved against him with great inhumanity, wounding
him with their spears, and only wanted more bloodied when there was nothing to mistreat and
hurt.

That apostate Ambrose, who had been the main cause of this wickedness, then sent some of his
accomplices to warn of what happened to people going to our mission
of the Guarani to enlist in the number of the faithful.

Quatí barely knew, the principal chief of all, the most fervent in the desire to receive holy baptism,
when leaving himself with grief, went around to all his subjects to avenge the deaths of the
Padres.

Offenders, seeing that they could not escape the fury of that brave
chief, called on their behalf to the Guaycurús, but even so the Quatí
undertook with great value, and to the first attack killed more than
a few of the accomplices, the other, unable to resist, they entered
fleeing through the woods, and for a long time dared not leave them,
for which all days this chief was in the least ill to face with such
an enormous crime, telling them to do what purpose life had been taken
to the Fathers that made them so good and so fond of? they could go
to the Mamalucos and would see if they were treated better.

Let the traitors in their flight altar ornaments and other sacred ornaments, which, although
desecrated and shattered the Quatí collected and restored, it still
maintained its great desire to be Christian, but he finally vanished
for having some of their chiefs nation bordering the Assumption, broken
the peace with the Spanish.

It has been well particular providence God has had to give notice of all these events.

There was already a little less than two years was not known to these two Apostolic operators,
so we were on so afflicted and bereaved.

Some believe that, looking unable to return to Asuncion, had been hospitalized for the country to
preach in it the holy law of God, and was the basis for this lawsuit
insatiable zeal on both sides, then to wherever they would give them
opportunity to preach, were even at the cost large sweat and work,
others ran better than had been killed by the Payaguá, or at least
made slaves.

And I've seen written letter of the Assumption of April 30, 1717, written after death penalty
that was given to the Payaguá said, was said by the way he ran in
that city who had died only P. Arce, and P. Blende I had the same
Payaguá captive with some of his Indians, and that the Spanish rider
had sold to the Guaycurús.

God wanted to order some comfort from news of the arrival of these two very happy Missionaries the
position of bliss, a glorious death.

Were thus eyewitnesses of what happened, four Christians, companions
of P. Arce, whose names were: Joseph Mazzabis, Poquibiqui Jacinto,
Pablo and Pedro Melchor Tubal Guarayo, who having been slaves of the
Payaguá, were rescued by the Padres in the first trip, and this had
brought him the Father of that language interpreters.

These slaves were now the second time Payaguá. The effect upon the muscles plays a part in mental fatigue only
so far as all mental work involves some muscular activity."

By this time you must be convinced that the subject of fatigue is exceedingly complicated;
that its effects are manifested differently in mind and body. In relieving fatigue the first
step to be taken is to rest properly. Man cannot work incessantly; he must rest sometimes,
and it is just as important to know how to rest efficiently as to know how to work efficiently.
By this is not meant that one should rest as soon as fatigue begins to be felt. Quite the reverse.
Keep on working all the harder if you wish the second-wind to appear. Perhaps two hours will
exhaust your first supply of energy and will leave you greatly fatigued. Do not give up at
this time, however. Push yourself farther in order to uncover the second layer of energy. Before
entering upon this, however, it will be possible to secure some advantage by resting for about
fifteen minutes. Do not rest longer than this, or you may lose the momentum already secured
and your two hours will have gone for naught. If one indulges in too long a rest, the energy
seems to run down and more effort is required to work it up again than was originally expended.
It is also important to observe the proper mental conditions during rest. Do not spend the
fifteen minutes in getting interested in some other object; for that will leave distracting
ideas in the mind which will persist when you resume work. Make the rest a time of physical
and mental relief. Move cramped muscles, rest your eyes and let your thoughts idly wander;
then come back to work in ten or fifteen minutes and you will be amazed at the refreshed feeling
with which you do your work and at the accession of new energy that will come to you. Keep
on at this new plane and your work will take on all the attributes of the second-wind level
of efficiency.

Besides planning intelligent rests, you may also adjust yourself to fatigue by arranging your
daily program so as to do your hardest work when you are fresh, and your easiest when your
efficiency is low. In other words, you are a human dynamo, and should adjust yourself to the
different loads you carry. When carrying a heavy load, employ your best energies, but when
carrying only a light load, exert a proportionate amount of energy. Every student has tasks
of a routine nature which do not require a high degree of energy, such as copying material.
Plan to perform such work when your stock of energy is lowest.

One of the best ways to insure the attainment of a higher plane of mental efficiency is to
assume an attitude of interestedness. This is an emotional state and we have seen that emotion
calls forth great energy.

A final aid in promoting increase of energy is that gained through stimulating ideas. Other
things being equal, the student who is animated by a stimulating idea works more diligently
and effectively than one without. The idea may be a lofty professional ideal; it may be a desire
to please one's family, a sense of duty, or a wish to excel. Whatever it is, an idea may stimulate
to extraordinary achievements. Adopt some compelling aim if you have none. A vocational aim
often serves as a powerful incentive throughout one's student life. An idea may operate for
even more transient purposes; it may make one oblivious to present discomfort to a remarkable
degree. This is accomplished through the aid of suggestion. When feelings of fatigue approach,
you may ward them off by resolutely suggesting to yourself that you are feeling fresh.

Above all, the will is effective in lifting one to higher levels of efficiency. But the results
of exertions of the will are not usually so immediate, and you may accept it as a fact that
in raising yourself to a higher level of energy you cannot do it by a single effort. Continuous
effort is required until the higher levels of energy have formed the habit of responding when
work is to be done. In laying the burden upon Nature's mechanism of habit, you see you are
again face to face with the proposition laid down at the beginning of the book--that education
consists in the process of forming habits of mind. The particular habit most important to cultivate
in connection with the production of second-wind is the habit of resisting fatigue. Form the
habit of persisting in spite of apparent obstacles and limitations. Though they seem almost
unsurmountable, they are really only superficial. Buried deep within you are stores of energy
that you yourself are unaware of. They will assist you in accomplishing feats far greater than
you think yourself capable of. Draw upon these resources and you will find yourself gradually
living and working upon a higher plane of efficiency, improving the quality of your work, increasing
the quantity of your work and enhancing your enjoyment in work.

READINGS AND EXERCISE

Readings: James (9) Seashore (14) Chapter III. Swift (20) Chapter V.

Exercise I. Describe conditions you have observed at time of second-wind in connection with
prolonged (a) physical exertion, (b) intellectual exertion.

CHAPTER XIV

EXAMINATIONS

One of the most vexatious periods of student life is examination time. This is almost universally
a time of great distress, giving rise in extreme cases to conditions of nervous collapse. The
reason for this is not far to seek, for upon the results of examinations frequently depend
momentous consequences, such as valuable appointments, diplomas, degrees and other important
events in the life of a student. In view of the importance of examinations, then, it is natural
that they be regarded with considerable fear and trepidation, and it is important that we devise
what rules we can for meeting their exactious demands with greatest ease and effectiveness.

Examinations serve several purposes, the foremost of which is to inform the examiner regarding
the amount of knowledge possessed by the student. In discovering this, two methods may be employed;
first, to test whether or not the student knows certain things, plainly a reproductive exercise;
second, to see how well the student can apply his knowledge. But this is not the only function
of an examination. It also shows the student how much he knows or does not know. Again the
examination often serves as an incentive to harder work on the part of the student, for if
one knows there will be an examination in a subject, one usually studies with greater zeal
than when an examination is not expected. Lastly, an examination may help the student to link
up facts in new ways, and to see them in new relationships. In this aspect, you readily see
that examinations constitute a valuable device in learning.

But students are not very patient in philosophizing about the purpose of examinations, declaring
that if examinations are a necessary part of the educational process, they wish some advice
that will enable them to pass examinations easily and with credit to themselves. So we shall
turn our attention to the practical problems of passing examinations.

Our first duty in giving advice is to call attention to the necessity for faithful work throughout
the course of study. Some students seem to think that they can slight their work throughout
a course, and by vigorous cramming at the end make up for slighted work and pass the examination.
This is an extremely dangerous attitude to take. It might work with certain kinds of subject-matter,
a certain type of student-mind and a certain kind of examiner, but as a general practice it
is a most treacherous method of passing a course. The greatest objection from a psychological
standpoint is that we have reason to believe that learning thus concentrated is not so permanently
effective as that extended over a long period of time. For instance, a German course extending
over a year has much to commend it over a course with the same number of recitation-hours crowded
into two months. We already discussed the reasons for this in Chapter VI, when we showed the
beneficial results coming from the distribution of impressions over a period of time.

Against cramming it may further be urged that the hasty impression of a mass of new material
is not likely to be lasting; particularly is this true when the cramming is made specifically
for a certain examination. As we saw in the chapter on memory, the intention to remember affects
the firmness of retention, and if the cramming is done merely with reference to the examination,
the facts learned may be forgotten and never be available for future use. So we may lay it
down as a rule that feverish exertions at the end of a course cannot replace conscientious
work throughout the course. In spite of these objections, however, we must admit that cramming
has some value, if it does not take the form of new acquisition of facts, but consists more
of a manipulation of facts already learned. As a method of review, it has an eminently proper
place and may well be regarded as indispensable. Some students, it is true, assert that they
derive little benefit from a pre-examination review, but one is inclined to question their
methods. We have already found that learning is characteristically aided by reviews, and that
recall is facilitated by recency of impression. Reviewing just before examination serves the
memory by providing repetition and recency, which, as we learned in the chapter on memory,
are conditions for favorable impression.

A further value of cramming is that by means of such a summarizing review one is able to see
facts in a greater number of relations than before. It too often happens that when facts are
taken up in a course they come in a more or less detached form, but at the conclusion of the
course a review will show the facts in perspective and will disclose many new relations between
them.

Another advantage of cramming is that at such a time, one usually works at a high plane of
efficiency; the task of reviewing in a few hours the work of an entire course is so huge that
the attention is closely concentrated, impressions are made vividly, and the entire mentality
is tuned up so that facts are well impressed, coordinated and retained. These advantages are
not all present in the more leisurely learning of a course, so we see that cramming may be
regarded as a useful device in learning.

We must not forget that many of the advantages secured by cramming are dependent upon the methods
pursued. There are good methods and poor methods of cramming. One of the most reprehensible
of the latter is to get into a flurry and scramble madly through a mass of facts without regard
to their relation to each other. This method is characterized by breathless haste and an anxious
fear lest something be missed or forgotten. Perhaps its most serious evil is its formlessness
and lack of plan. In other words the facts should not be seized upon singly but should be regarded
in the light of their different relations with each other. Suppose, for example, you are reviewing
for an examination in mediaeval history. The important events may be studied according to countries,
studying one country at a time, but that is not sufficient; the events occurring during one
period in one country should be correlated with those occurring in another country at the same
time. Likewise the movements in the field of science and discovery should be correlated with
movements in the fields of literature, religion and political control. Tabulate the events
in chronological order and compare the different series of events with each other. In this
way the facts will be seen in new relations and will be more firmly impressed so that you can
use them in answering a great variety of questions.

Having made preparation of the subject-matter of the examination, the next step is to prepare
yourself physically for the trying ordeal, for it is well known that the mind acts more ably
under physically healthful conditions. Go to the examination-room with your body rested after
a good night's sleep. Eat sparingly before the examination, for mental processes are likely
to be clogged if too heavy food is taken.

Having reached the examination-room, there are a number of considerations that are requisite
for success. Some of the advice here given may seem to be superfluous but if you had ever corrected
examination papers you would see the need of it all. Let your first step consist of a preliminary
survey of the examination questions; read them all over slowly and thoughtfully in order to
discover the extent of the task set before you. A striking thing is accomplished by this preliminary
reading of the questions. It seems as though during the examination period the knowledge relating
to the different questions assembles itself, and while you are focusing your attention upon
the answer to one question, the answers to the other questions are formulating themselves in
your mind. It is a semi-conscious operation, akin to the "unconscious learning" discussed in
the chapter on memory. In order to take advantage of it, it is necessary to have the questions
in mind as soon as possible; then it will be found that relevant associations will form and
will come to the surface when you reach the particular questions.

During the examination when some of these associations come into consciousness ahead of time,
it is often wise to digress from the question in hand long enough to jot them down. By all
means preserve them, for if you do not write them down they may leave you and be lost. Sometimes
very brilliant ideas come in flashes, and inasmuch as they are so fleeting, it is wise to grasp
them and fix them while they are fresh.

In writing the examination, be sure you read every question carefully. Each question has a
definite point; look for it, and do not start answering until you are sure you have found it.
Discover the implications of each question; canvass its possible interpretations, and if it
is at all ambiguous seek light from the instructor if he is willing to make any further comment.

It is well to have scratch paper handy and make outlines for your answers to long questions.
It is a good plan, also, when dealing with long questions, to watch the time carefully, for
there is danger that you will spend too much time upon some question to the detriment of others
equally important, though shorter. 

As was true Carer referred to, was having the indefatigable missionary to carry out and achieve
the glorious end of such laborious undertaking, for which, by choosing second time some Christians
more courage and strength, started in late May of 717, and reaching the place of his sweats, then
put more verve to cut trees and to pave the earth, facilitating this work and fatigue in the
hope of good success.

It seemed almost impossible to remove this pregnancy, but nothing
is inaccessible, nothing hard to beat, whom he has offered his spirit
to God and his neighbor his life for the sake of charity.

Twenty days after it was open to anyone in the impenetrable forest, and to the July 12 arrived
at the first Rancheria of Zamucos.

These, whom fame had preceded his coming, we celebrated with demonstrations of extraordinary
joy cercáronle all in a circle, and men all, one by one, we were
kissing his hand, wanted to do the same for women, but the holy man
crumbled all in tears of relief and gave them to kiss the image of
the Blessed Virgin, who brought in hand.

Completed after the neophytes, embracing in peace and love, and I stayed in their homes, giving
them part of the poverty and the country.

The next day the people gathered in the square, right, and together they gave a brief report of
God, his holy law, and asked if they wanted should come and preach the Missionary Hence the faith
of Jesus Christ and teach the way to heaven.

They answered that he had long wished, and not being Christian and it was because I had no one explain
the mysteries of the faith they had to believe, or the commandments to be observed.

- Well if so - said the Father, bathed in joy - you need to first raise church to your Creator
and Lord, and that you keep company all in one village.

That proposal was raised two principal chiefs, saying they would of goodwill but not there, but in
a better place, and that would gather at once to all the people of the neighborhood to found
a large reduction.

Meanwhile made P. Zea fly a cross on a high, and put all kneel before
it, worship it, and chanted the Litany of the Virgin, placed under
the patronage that people and protection of our Father St. Ignatius,
which gave invocation.

One would have gladly stayed there for warmth to the good will of the Zamucos if there brought
with them the sacred vestments and altar laptop, but he was forced to suffer many inconveniences,
and having nothing else to eat but water and some wild grass roots;
from this cause was to dismiss them and turn then to the same feeling
and pain that started and those who stayed.

On the return was timely opportunity to win for Christ to one hundred Indians of various nations
Zinotecas, Japorotecas and Cucarates that brought to the Reduction
of San Juan Bautista, where as he was preparing again to return to
their Zamucos, received orders to our General Michelangelo Tamburini
father, that he take charge of the provincial government, to they
promptly obeyed, not without pain in his heart incomparable.

And this time he died because the public good of these missions, leaving after two years slightly
less, life in the provincial employment, we here a brief account of the merits starting from
here took with him to Paraguay, for example of the subjects, and
then the sky to receive the crown due to the apostolic workers.

Father was Juan Bautista de Zea, a native of Goaz, instead of Old Castile, where he was born to March
18, 1654.

Here he learned the rudiments of grammar, but by the quality of place and teachers, took over
in devotion in the letters, not least in growing under that year.

To study more science went to the University of Valladolid, where he gave good examples ingenuity
in the speculative sciences, but much more on the saints.

He excelled in maiden modesty, innocence of manners as Christian and kind, great contempt of
worldly things, and not like anything other than God and his soul.

There was little need for one who was so detached from the affections
of flesh and blood surrender to the will of God calling him to the
Company, in which to August 13, 1671 will P. was the most learned
Diego Hurtado de la Fuente, who discovered light sovereign and foreseeing
the end to which God had designed the new Jesuit, it predicted things
great in the service of God and increase the holy Church, and from
then on he always loved and was venerated as a saint.

Zea brother just donned the robes of the Company, when taking over new obligations that she
had contracted, he tried to give them full compliance, and as if I started again the path
of virtue, he looked in the virtues of their connovicios, As observed
in them worthy of emulation to copy itself to the perfection of all.

Bragging to read and consider our rules, they are put forward as a
model, to which perfectly arranged in the interior and exterior.

Had very little to overcome to deliver the all his heart to God, not wanting or loving, or thinking
of other good that Her Majesty and subject testifies he met while studying the philosophy,
having given the Supreme clock care home, was only rather uncomfortable in a room without
leaving it but forced or scholastic functions domestic.

Here all the time that he had plenty of work study God gave it, and very rarely to men, because they
used very little of their conversation, and then only when requested by the obligation.

Then he went to study theology at Salamanca, and at this time the news spread by provinces of
Spain have arrived at Cadiz PP. Cristóbal de Grijalva and Thomas Dombaas, Prosecutors in Paraguay,
and to consider putting on the conversion of idolaters and the extreme distress in which are
innumerable peoples of the West, where extensive field offers copious harvest operators to many
Evangelicals, if there are many who disregard the amenities to attend to the eternal salvation
of souls is kindled the heart the desire to be one of the elect whom he touched the good fortune
to be appointed for the Mission the very extensive province of Paraguay,
and therefore made every effort to reach then leave of his superiors,
who felt much his request, because one part would not deprived of
it, and otherwise would not oppose the will of God, clearly known
their vocation, the American finally prevailed, and the abandoned
paganism of Paraguay by thus, our Zea, happy and alegrísimo broke
his province of Castile, to whom as a child always professed most
tender affection, and his classmates followed him to the heart, retaining
its sweet memory; singularly took pains to master this, your philosophy
Fr Baltasar Rubio, who was confessor of the Most Serene Queen of Spain,
Dona Maria Luisa Savoy, he followed him with affection, with their
prayers and their letters because when offered always hand wrote,
having the P. Zea uploaded concept, as I stated them.

Ordenóse a priest before embarking for the province, he spent the
year 1681 and were just sailed in Cadiz, when occasion offered which
demonstrate the spirit and virtues, of which plenty was prevented
for that trip.

Fell ill almost all his companions, who came to sixty, it is dizzy with extraordinary loss of
appetite and food boredom, to be followed by other diseases, that
killed eight of the Jesuits, as I said in the life of P. Caballero,
who also spent Indians on this occasion.

Fr Zea was time for everyone, serving not only as a nurse, but a cook,
but no experience in such trades, but the charity which is very clever
teacher, taught him these and other offices to serve his brethren.

Convalesced them, used all his thoughts and zeal in the mob of apprentices of the ship, taking
responsibility for the spiritual care of them with the talks, calls, confessions and all other
exercises leading to the advantage of souls, leaving between therefore no work, were vile
and disgusting it was, who did not run on their service, to win them
for God, and better and more happily did win those who were most work
and contempt.

With this size so holy proceeded all the navigation, which lasted three months, taking advantage
many wonderful, whom reduced to living well, and drawing on the eternal truths and putting them
in sight so many dangers and storms at sea, which even the most lost
often obliged to care for the conscience and soul, who had previously
appeared in such neglect or not having it.

What worked after he came to the Indies and in what trades are employed in the long course
his life, I have not been able to ascertain, by the distance of the places where he lived and
worked and having killed many of the Company who treated him familiarly. But I know that by
the I appreciate that from the beginning made him superiors soon
after he arrived from Spain made him minister of the Colegio Máximo
de Cordoba, where they breed the religious youth throughout the province.

After

he was Superior of the Missions of Uruguay, Visitor of the Chiquitos, Vice-Rector College of Córdoba,
and was also designated the Rector of Corrientes, to which for reasons that had proposed, and
recently was Provincial of the province, letter by Death took him a year and a half of his
government.

Now I'll just say briefly something of their virtues, reserving for another day to give in full
respect of all his many enterprises and heroic deeds.

And first tell your religious poverty.

He was always very poor in their dress, so much that by the many patches
that had, say with grace a missionary, he was in more accidents than
substance, he himself mended by their hands never moved another, until
the first, and can not survive, was falling to pieces.

Upon entering Buenos Aires, with Provincial, begged his secretary Fr Juan de Alzola, which at
least in that city, it ceases to do with some decent cassock, as
carrying was very faded, almost white, because if you do not force
him to dress another similar.

- I send to VR - said Fr Zea - that
does not make any move on her dress and let I rejoice in this poverty,
that I most appreciate that many are wearing purple monarchs and emperors.

All

the furniture in his room were a network, or as we call, hammock, sleeping without mattress or
pillow, a few books devoted and Santo Cristo.

Her old breviary was so shattered, that only helped the memory could meet the obligation to pray
the Divine Office, its greatest treasure were the instruments of
penance, that macerated his flesh, and sackcloth, iron chains, crosses,
armed with sharp ends and other of this sort, with which reduced his
body to perpetual slavery, with that holy awe with which also armed
himself against himself the Apostle Paul.

In his travels just ate some bread and some other snack, they use the poor Indians; well as to
bread or other of the dishes used by Europeans for many years did not prove snack; happy with
just a handful of corn undercooked and often with roots or fruit
wild, since many had no else was in the woods, and when he ate more
largesse was a little fish or some herbs or cooked without any seasoning,
and lived so joyful and happy in this poverty and misery in his last
illness he was annoying facilities and heavy with their patients using
the Company.

It was not inferior to his obedience poverty, gave proof that wonderful, which, by chance, one that
is not true holiness look with the eyes of the body, will take little but who look at things
with clear eyes and clear the mind, perfectly measured of virtues, not what they show in appearance,
but which in reality are itself.

It was, as we shall see, a man of zeal and natural ardientísimo on how hot, with all that, to
a hint from his superiors, from the Missions of the Guarani, where worked great works of the service
of God and the good of souls, was reduced without retail proposal, to the anguish of a room in
a school, with the use of teaching children the rudiments of grammar. In another hint of his
Provincial, while was reducing the bosom of the church a large number
of infidels, leaving the point that great work, went to the Reductions
of Uruguay, as it were, from one end of the world another, as they
were far more than a thousand and two hundred leagues from the other
where he was, and a trip twenty-four hours, turned to retrace, in
obedience, in twenty days.

Finally, where this virtue champion with admiration of all, it was that being in the fervor
of their conversion and to the best of the work to reduce faith to the Zamucos and found that
new Christendom, hands raised to the point of work, no hope of ever returning to continued at
a general order that our Father to take charge of the government of this province, he naively
confessed that cost him his incredible performance of this order grief and sorrow, and had
never felt so much his natural repugnance in this case to be High, and though it easily could
have been excused from that burden for him as heavy, with all that,
no longer obey, promptly accepted, and promptly fell to long hours
at Tucumán, suffering incredible by the way work and discomfort.

But in what was particularly remarkable among us was in the zeal for souls and in the conversion
of infidels. The delay of faith, to preach to the Christians, reducing to the Gentiles, it did
not seem to work under, but natural inclination and appetite, for what which could not live in any
other way or in another occupation got taste, but this driver souls to the knowledge and love
of God, and this year was all quiet and rest your and ease in all conditions, there was no better
way to talk of new businesses for the good of souls, the holy life of new Christians and new
conversion of infidels to the holy church.

I wish I could bring here some of his letters, I have in my possession, to see all that they
could not lovers of the world and the flesh liveliest explain their content and desires, the
Protestant states this worker's feelings of his heart businesses in the service of God, the laments
and complaints that makes the most enemy demon when he crossed it, or did he allayed your designs.
So I do not cause admiration that undefeated spirit suffer much persecution and repaired, even
with the loss its reputation, damage, rather than light, its Christianity, before realizing these
his squalls Fr Francisco Burgos, Attorney General of this province,
in a letter dated 29 September 1705, written at Madrid, he says:

"For
me there can be no greater glory than that pursued me to take forward
this new Christianity of the Chiquitos so many work and sweat has
cost me from the beginning.

"

And telling the truth, because if it comes to their own jobs that have to devastate and to instruct
to these nations, that the factions are men, but in the works differ little brutes, they had
suffered and how much you can make a real father to spiritual profit and body of their children,
because he had given under belly so tender and love true father as the natural parents usually
have them by nature with children, of worked day and night, not only for the good of souls, but
also the bodies of their neophytes, providing plenty of food to the hungry, and writing recipes
and applying remedies to the sick, and although journal Nature, treating
and cleaning his wounds with such disengage, as if I did not feel
the slightest repugnance and disgust in himself; the same love he
showed to be the arbiter in their disputes, spending much time listening
to him have, with patience and gentleness inexplicable, differences
had each other to achieve and to maintain and preserve peace among
them because before being a Christian, each one their own authority
and justice was done to avenge their grievances with the weapons.

This and much more doing and suffering for the poor Indians, and though others could not tolerate
continuous weight of life so laborious and so little relief for all that he lasted in it for
many years, and every day was as vigorously as if just begun, and of that, as I said elsewhere, not
just to amaze me, because when hearing his work in Mission Zamucos forces was considered consumed
and could barely keep his feet, I saw him shortly afterwards in Cordoba, with encouragement
and vigor of youth, being so I was sixty and four years old.

In many hardships for the sake of those new Christians, they added another trabajosísima of difficult
to learn so many barbarous languages, so that while they in the works her father experienced,
do not take into the foreign tongue.

Thing was this that a man of his age could be very annoying and much embarrassment, but zeal
for souls forced him to return to the status and simplicity of a
child to learn one by one the words and meanings of those languages,
and to express the voices the accents of the barbarians, and not refusing
to become a disciple of these infidels, I took them by interpreters
to translate into your language the mysteries and precepts of the
law God, after trying to teach them to work continuously for months
and years on end.

 Such dreams may be partially eliminated by care in arranging conditions so that there
will be few distractions. Especially should they be guarded against in the later hours of the
sleep, for we do not sleep so soundly after the first two hours as we do before, and stimuli
can more easily impress themselves and affect the brain.

Before leaving the subject of sleep, we should note the benefit to be derived from regularity
in sleep. All Nature seems to move rhythmically and sleep is no exception. Insomnia may be
treated by means of habituating one's self to get sleepy at a certain time, and there is no
question that the rising process may be made easier if one forms the habit of arising at the
same time every morning. To rhythmize this important function is a long step towards the efficient
life.

EXERCISE.--Brain workers do not ordinarily get all the exercise they should. Particularly is
this true of some conscientious students who feel they must not take any time from their study.
But this denotes a false conception of mental action. The human organism needs exercise. Man
is not a disembodied spirit; he must pay attention to the claims of the body. Indeed it will
be found that time spent in exercise will result in a higher grade of mental work. This is
recognized by colleges and universities by the requirement of gymnasium work, and the opportunity
should be welcomed by the student. Inasmuch as institutions generally give instruction in this
subject, we need not go specifically into the matter of exercises. Perhaps the only caution
that need be urged is that against the excessive participation in such exhausting games as
foot-ball. It is seriously to be questioned whether the strenuous grilling that a foot-ball
player must undergo does not actually impair his ability to concentrate upon his studies.

If you undertake a course of exercise, by all means have it regular. Little is gained by sporadic
exercising. Adopt the principle of regularity and rhythmize this important phase of bodily
activity as well as all other phases.

In concluding our discussion of physical hygiene for the student, we cannot stress too much
the value of relaxation. The life of a student is a trying one. It exercises chiefly the higher
brain centres and keeps the organism keyed up to a high pitch. These centres become fatigued
easily and ought to be rested occasionally. Therefore, the student should relax at intervals,
and engage in something remote from study. To forget books for an entire week-end is often
wisdom; to have a hobby or an avocation is also wise. A student must not forget that he is
something more than an intellectual being. He is a physical organism and a social being, and
the well-rounded life demands that all phases receive expression. We grant that it is wrong
to exalt the physical and stunt the mental, but it is also wrong to develop the intellectual
and neglect the physical.

READINGS AND EXERCISE

Readings:

Patrick (14) Chapters I, II and VII. Stiles (18) and (19).

Swift (20) Chapter X.

Exercise 1. With the help of a book on dietetics prepare an ideal day's bill of fare for a student.

SUGGESTIONS FOR FURTHER READING

Besides the standard texts in general and educational psychology, the following books bear
with especial intimacy upon the topics treated in this book:

1. Adams, John, Making the Most of One's Mind, New York: George H. Doran Co., 1915.

2. Dearborn, George V., How to Learn Easily, Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1918.

3. Dewey, John, How we Think, Boston: D.C. Heath & Co., 1910.

4. Dewey, John, Interest and Effort in Education, Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Co., 1913.

5. Fulton, Maurice (ed.), College Life, Its Conditions and Problems, The Macmillan Co., 1915.

6. Hall-Quest, Alfred L., Supervised Study, New York: The Macmillan Co., 1916.

7. Herrick, C. Judson, An Introduction to Neurology, Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders Co., 1915.

8. James, William, Talks to Teachers on Psychology, and to Students on Some of Life's Ideals,
New York. 1899.

9. James, William, The Energies of Men, New York: Moffatt, Yard & Co., 1917.

10. Kerfoot, John B., How to Read, Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1916.

11. Lockwood, Francis (comp.), The Freshman and His College, Boston: D.C. Heath & Co., 1913.

12. Lowe, John Adams, Books and Libraries, Boston: The Boston Book Co., 1917.

13. McMurry, Frank M., How to Study, Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1909.

14. Patrick, George T. W., The Psychology of Relaxation, Boston: Houghton, Mifflin & Co., 1916.

15. Sandwick, Richard L., How to Study and What to Study, Boston: D.C. Heath & Co., 1915.

16. Seashore, Carl E., Psychology in Daily Life, New York: D. Appleton & Co., 1918.

17. Seward, S., Note-taking, Boston: Allyn & Bacon, 1910.

18. Stiles, Percy G., Nutritional Physiology Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1912.

19. Stiles, Percy G., The Nervous System and Its Conservation, Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders
Co., 1914.

20. Swift, Edgar J., Psychology and the Day's Work, New York: C. Scribner's Sons, 1919.

21. Watt, Henry J., The Economy and Training of Memory, New York: Longmans, Green & Co., 1909.

22. Whipple, Guy M., How to Study Effectively, Bloomington, Ill.: Public School Publishing
Co., 1916.

INDEX

Acquisition, vs. "construction"
Activity, mental
Association, laws of;
  in memory;
  in reasoning;
  in examination
Attention;
  fluctuation of;
  resistance of distractions;
  lapses of

Bibliographies
Bodily activities, in recognition;
  distractions in attention
Brain, description of;
  elementary cells;
  tissue, properties of;
  tracts;
  areas

Charlemagne
Clarification of ideas, through definition and classification;
  through expression
Classification of ideas
Class room
College, difficulties;
  demands of
Constructive study
Cramming

Day dreaming
Decision, in reasoning
Definition
Distractions, in attention;
  in sleep
Dreams
Drinking

Ennui
Ethical, consequences, of habit;
  of expression
Examinations, importance;
  purposes of;
  preparation for
Exercise
Expression;
  neural basis

Fasting
Fatigue
Feelings, pleasurable;
  unpleasant
Fletcher, Horace
Food

Geometry

Golf

Graphic methods;
  in measuring learning

Habit, defined;
  maxims for forming;
  advantages of;
  disadvantages of;
  in reasoning;
  of resisting fatigue

Ideas
  in reasoning
  how to clarify
  in fatigue
  stimulus of

Idea-motor action
  law of

Image
  defined
  kinds of

Imagination
  made of images
  works of
  sources
  how to develop
  visual, auditory, etc.

Impression
  guard avenues of
  clearness essential
  through various senses
  vs. expression

Indenture

Intention
  in memorizing

Insomnia
  see Sleeplessness

Inspiration

Interest
  defined
  sources
  development of
  laws of

Judgment

Kinaesthetic impressions

Lecture
  method
  notes

Logical associations
  in memorizing
  in reasoning

Mediaeval history

Memory
  importance in study
  stages of
  "unconscious" Before hanging themselves to escape to the forest ...

Lie could see
so little that something is reached Don Candido ailment Gamboa African
ethnology.

Already seen, the constant traffic in slaves for many years, holding two or three hundred of
these, he had been taught by race were more submissive or rebellious, more or less calculated
to lead to death on the heavy yoke of slavery. Happened, however, that nothing had taught him to Moya
long experience in handling black own and others, and his whole being revolted when she heard
that there were good and bad, and that some are not without cause powerful ever fled rather took
their own lives.
 The
Arupurés, having heard the brazen audacity of those evil, though they had any news of the mysteries
that were wrought in that sacred wood, brought badly that injury, and passed the punishment
that they had taken the sky.