 The spare bedrooms were invariably cold, and on a severe night it
was like undressing out of doors and jumping into a snowbank.

I have many a time shivered for half an hour before my body could
generate heat enough to make me comfortable.

The furniture made no pretensions to artistic design or elegance.

It was plain and strong, and bore unmistakable evidence of having originated either at the
carpenter's bench or at the hands of some member of the family, in
odd spells of leisure on rainy days.

Necessity is axiomatically said to be the mother of invention, and
as there were no furniture makers with any artistic skill or taste
in the country, and as the inclination of the people ran more in the
direction of the useful than the ornamental, most of the domestic
needs were of home manufacture.

I have a clear recollection of the pine tables, with their strong square legs tapering to the
floor, and of how carefully they were scrubbed. Table covers were seldom used, and only when there
was company, and then the cherry table with its folding leaves was brought out, and the pure white
linen cloth, most likely the production of the good wife's own hands, was carefully spread
upon it. Then came the crockery. Who can ever forget the blue-edged plates, cups and saucers,
and other dishes whereon indigo storks and mandarins, or something approaching a representation
of them, glided airily over sky-blue hills in their pious way from one indigo pagoda to another.
These things I have no doubt, would be rare prizes to Ceramic lovers of the present day. The
cutlery and silver consisted mostly of bone-handled knives and iron
forks, and iron and pewter spoons.

On looking over an old inventory of my grandfather's personal effects not long since, I came
upon these items: "two pair of spoon moulds," and I remembered melting pewter and making spoons
with these moulds when I was very young.

Cooking was done in the oven, and over the kitchen fire, and the utensils were a dinner pot, teakettle,
frying-pan and skillet.

There were no cooking stoves. The only washing machines were the ordinary wash tubs, soft
soap, and the brawny arms and hands of the girls; and the only wringers were the strong wrists and firm
grip that could give a vigorous twist to what passed through the
hands.

Water was drawn from the wells with a bucket fastened to a long slender pole attached to a sweep
suspended to a crotch.

Butter, as has already been intimated, was made in upright churns,
and many an hour have I stood, with mother's apron pinned around me
to keep my clothes from getting spattered, pounding at the stubborn
cream, when every minute seemed an hour, thinking the butter would
never come.

When evening set in, we were wont to draw around the cheerful fire
on the hearth, or perhaps up to the kitchen table, and read and work
by the dim light of "tallow dips," placed in tin candlesticks, or,
on extra occasions, in brass or silver ones, with their snuffers,
trays and extinguishers.

Now, we sit by the brilliant light of the coal oil lamp or of gas.

Then, coal oil was in the far-off future, and there was not a gas
jet in Canada, if indeed in America.

The making of tallow candles, before moulds were used, was a slow and tiresome task. Small
sticks were used, about two feet long, upon each of which six cotton wicks, made for the purpose,
were placed about two inches apart, each wick being from ten to twelve
inches long.

A large kettle was next partly filled with hot water, upon which
melted tallow was poured. This is what we call manners, you know--to
invite a fellow-creature to travel a hundred and fifty miles to spend two days here, and then
to turn him out before he's been in the house an hour. It's us, that is! But the truth of the
matter is, the birthday business might be a bit serious. It might easily cost me fifty quid
and no end of diplomacy. If you were a married man you'd know that the ten plagues of Egypt
are simply nothing in comparison with your wife's relations. And she's over eighty, the old lady."

"I'll give you ten plagues of Egypt!" Mrs Brindley menaced her spouse, as she wafted the boys
from the room. "Mr Loring, do take some more of that cheese if you fancy it." She vanished.

Within ten minutes Brindley was conducting me to the doctor's, whose house was on the way to
the station. In its spacious porch he explained the circumstances in six words, depositing
me like a parcel. The doctor, who had once by mysterious medicaments saved my frail organism
from the consequences of one of Brindley's Falstaffian "nights," hospitably protested his readiness
to sacrifice patients to my pleasure.

"It'll be a chance for MacIlroy," said he.

"Who's MacIlroy?" I asked.

"MacIlroy is another Scotchman," growled Brindley. "Extraordinary how they stick together!
When he wanted an assistant, do you suppose he looked about for some one in the district, some
one who understood us and loved us and could take a hand at bridge? Not he! Off he goes to
Cupar, or somewhere, and comes back with another stage Scotchman, named MacIlroy. Now listen
here, Doc! A charge to keep you have, and mind you keep it, or I'll never pay your confounded
bill. We'll knock on the window to-night as we come back. In the meantime you can show Loring
your etchings, and pray for me." And to me: "Here's a latchkey." With no further ceremony he
hurried away to join his wife and children at Bleakridge Station. Did he hand you any receipt for
them?

"" A receipt which I've got here, "answered the Princess, tapping her hand-bag." And it's all
in his handwriting, and made out in the form of an inventory-- all
that was at his suggestion.

"" And
how, "asked the official," were the jewels packed when given to him?

"" Very simply, "said the Princess." That was his suggestion, too. They were wrapped up in soft
paper and chamois leather, and put into an old cigar-box which he placed in his small travelling-bag.
That bag, he said, would never go out of his sight until he reached London, where, when he'd
exhibited the jewels to Mr. Fullaway's client, he was to lodge them in a bank. It seemed to
him that the cigar-box was a good notion-- the jewels themselves didn't take up so much room as
you might think, and he laid some very ordinary things over the top of the package-- a cake
or two of soap, a sponge, and things like that-- so that, supposing the cigar-box had been opened, its
contents would have seemed very ordinary, you understand?

"" And yet, "said the official softly," the thieves evidently went straight for that cigar-box when
the critical moment came.

Well, "he continued, looking round at his visitors," I don't know that we can do more to-night.
Is there anything any of you ladies or gentlemen wish to suggest?

"" Yes! "said Allerdyke." In my opinion a most important thing. It's my decided conviction that
in this case we've got to offer a reward-- no mere trifling sum, but one that'll set a few fingers tingling.
And it's my concern, and the Princess's, and Miss Lennard's. And if you'll permit us three to have
a quiet talk in yon corner of your room, I'll tell you its result
when we've finished.

"The result of that quiet talk-- chiefly conducted by Allerdyke with masculine force and vigour--
was that by noon of next day the exterior of every London police-station attracted vast attention
by reason of a freshly-posted bill. It was a long bill, and it set out the surface particulars
of three murders, and of two robberies in connection therewith.

The particulars made interesting reading enough-- but the real fascination of the bill was in
its big, staring headline-- FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS REWARD.

CHAPTER XV THE BAYSWATER BOARDING-HOUSE Some time previous to these
remarkable events, Marshall Allerdyke, being constantly in London,
and having to spend much time on business in the Mansion House region,
had sought and obtained membership of the City Carlton Club, in St.
Swithin's Lane, and at noon of the day following the arrival of the
Princess Nastirsevitch, he stood in a window of the smoking-room,
looking out for Appleyard, whom he had asked to lunch.

In one hand he carried a folded copy of the reward bill, which Blindway
had left at the Waldorf Hotel for him, and while he waited-- the room
being empty just then save for an old gentleman who read The Times
in a far corner-- he unfolded and took a surreptitious glance at it,
chuckling to himself at the thought of the cupidity which its contents
and promises would arouse in the breasts of the many thousands of
folk who would read it."

Fifty thousand pounds!

"he thought, with high amusement." Egad, some of'em'ud feel like Rothschild
himself if they could shove that bit in their pockets-- they'd take on
all the airs of a Croesus! "The thought of the Rothschild wealth made
him lift his eyes and glance through the window at the gate of the quiet,
ultra-respectable establishment across the way. Allerdyke, like all
men of considerable means, had a mighty respect for wealth in its
colossal forms, and he never visited the City Carlton, nor looked
out of its smoking-room windows, without glancing with interest and
admiration at the famous Rothschild offices, immediately opposite.

It amused him to speculate and theorize about the vast amounts of money which must needs be turned over
in theory and practice within those soberly quiet walls, to indulge in fancies about the secrets,
financial and political, which must be discussed and locked up in human breasts there-- to him
the magic address, New Court, St. Swithin's Lane, was as full of potential mystery as the Sphinx is
to an imaginative traveller.

He glanced at its gates and at its sign now with an almost youthful awe and reverence-- the reverence
of the man of considerable wealth for the men of enormous wealth--
and while his eyes were thus busy a taxi-cab came along the Lane,
stopped by the entrance to New Court, and set down Mrs. Marlow.

Allerdyke instinctively shrank back within the curtains of the smoking-room window. There was no
reason why he should have done so. He had no objection to Franklin Fullaway's secretary seeing him standing
in a window of the City Carlton Club; he knew no reason why Mrs. Marlow should object to be
seen getting out of a cab in St. Swithin's Lane. Yet, he drew back, and,
from his concealed position, watched. Not that there was anything out of the
ordinary to watch.

Mrs. Marlow, who looked daintier, prettier, more charming than ever,
paid her driver, gave him a smiling nod, and tripped into New Court,
a bundle of papers in her well-gloved hand." Business with Rothschild's,
eh? "mused Allerdyke." Well, I daresay there's a vast lot of folk
in this city who do business across there. Um!-- smart little woman that,
and no doubt as clever as she's smart. I'd like to know-- "Just then the
ancient hall-porter of the club (who surely missed his vocation in
life, and should have been a bishop, or at least a dean) ushered in
Appleyard, whom Allerdyke immediately beckoned to join him amongst
the window-curtains."

I say! "he whispered, with a side glance at The Times-reading old gentleman," you remember me telling
you yesterday about the lady-secretary of Fullaway's-- Mrs. Marlow?-- what a smart bit she looked to
be. Eh? "" Well? "replied Appleyard." Of course, what about her? ""

She's just
gone into Rothschild's across there, "answered Allerdyke." Come here, this corner; she'll be
coming out before long, no doubt, and then you'll see her.

As I told you about her, I want you to take a look at her-- she's worth
seeing for more reasons than one. "Appleyard allowed himself to be drawn
into the embrasure. He waited patiently and in silence-- presently
Allerdyke dug a finger into his ribs."

She's coming! "he whispered." Now!

"Appleyard looked half-carelessly across the street-- the next instant
he was devoutly thanking his stars that since boyhood he had sedulously
trained himself to control his countenance.

He made no sign, gave no indication of previous acquaintance, as he
watched Mrs. Marlow's svelt figure trip out of New Court and away up
St. Swithin's Lane; his face was as calm and unemotional, his eyes
as steady as ever when he turned to his employer."

Pretty woman, "he said." Looks a sharp'un, too, Mr. Allerdyke.

Well, "he went on, turning away into the room as if Mrs. Marlow no longer
interested him."

I got those two reports for you-- shall I tell you about them now?

""

Aye, for sure, "replied Allerdyke." Come into this corner-- we'll have a glass of sherry-- it's early
for lunch yet. Those reports, eh? About Fullaway and Delkin, you mean? "" Just so, "said Appleyard,
settling himself in the corner of a lounge and lighting the cigarette
which Allerdyke offered him."

They're ordinary business reports, you know, got through the usual
channels. Fullaway's all right, so far as the various commercial agencies
know-- nothing ever been heard against him, anyhow.

The account of himself and his business which he gave to you is quite
correct.

To sum up-- he's a sound man-- quite straight-- on the business surface,
which is, of course, all we can get at.

As for Delkin, that's a straight story, too-- anyway, there's a Chicago
millionaire of that name been in town some weeks-- he's stopping at
the Hotel Cecil-- has a palatial suite there-- and his daughter's
about to marry Lord Hexwater.

All correct there, Mr. Allerdyke, too-- I mean as regards all that Fullaway told you. "" Well,
there's something in knowing all that, Ambler, my lad, "answered
Allerdyke."

You can't get to know too much about the folks you're dealing with,
you know.

Very good-- we'll leave that now. What d'ye think o'this? "He unfolded
and held up the reward bill, first looking as fondly at it as a youthful
author looks at his first printed performance, and then glancing at
his manager to see what effect it had upon him.

And he saw Ambler Appleyard's sandy eyebrows go up in a definite
arch."

Fifty thousand! "muttered Appleyard." Whew! It's a stiff figure, Mr.
Allerdyke. You've put a thick finger in that pie, I'm thinking! "" One
half from the Princess; twenty thousand from me; five thousand from
the singing lady, "whispered Allerdyke."

That's how it's made up, my lad. And naught'll please me better
than to see it paid out-- that's a fact! "" You'll have some triers,
"said Appleyard, with an emphatic wag of the head." Make no mistake about
that! Fifty thousand!

Gosh!-- why, anybody that's got the least clue, the slightest idea-- and there must be somebody--'ll
have a go in for all he or she's worth! "" Let'em try!

"exclaimed Allerdyke." The welcome man's the chap that enables us
to recover and convict.

Here, shove that bill in your pocket, and read it at your leisure-- there's something to think about
in what it says, I promise you.

"Appleyard went away from the club an hour and a half later, thinking hard enough. But he was not
thinking about the reward bill. What he was thinking about, had been thinking about from the moment
in which Allerdyke had drawn him into the smoking-room window and pointed her out to him, was--
Mrs. Marlow.

For Appleyard knew Mrs. Marlow well enough, but (always those buts in life, he reflected with
a cynical laugh as he threaded his way back to Gresham Street) he knew her by another name-- Miss Slade.
And now he was wondering why Miss Slade or Mrs. Marlow had two names, and why
she appeared to be one person as he knew her in private life, and another as
he had seen her that very morning.

On Appleyard's first coming to town in the capacity of sole manager
of the London warehouse of Allerdyke and Partners, Limited, he had
set himself up in two rooms in a Bloomsbury lodging-house.

He knew little of London life at that time, or he would have known that
he was thus condemning himself to a drab and dreary existence.

As it was, he quickly learnt by experience, and within six months, having picked up a comfortable
knowledge of things, he transferred himself to one of those well-equipped
boarding establishments in the best part of Bayswater, wherein bachelors,
old maids, young women, widowers, and married couples without encumbrance,
can live together in as much or as little friendship and intercourse
as pleases their individual tastes.

Ambler Appleyard took his time and selected the likeliest place he could find after much inspection
of many similar places. His salary of a thousand a year (to which was to be added a handsome,
if varying commission) enabled him to pick and choose; the house
which he did choose, in the immediate neighbourhood of Lancaster Gate,
was of the luxurious order; its private rooms were models of the last
thing in comfort, its public rooms were equal to those of the best
modern hotels.

If you wanted male society, you could find it in the smoking-room
and the billiard-room; if you desired feminine influences there was
a pleasing variety in the drawing-room and the lounges.

You could be just as much alone, and just as much in company as you
pleased-- anyway, the place suited Ambler Appleyard, and there he
had lived for two and a half years.

And during a good two of them, the young lady whom he knew as Miss Slade had lived there too.
With Miss Slade, Appleyard, as fellow-resident in the same house, was on quite friendly terms. He
sometimes talked to her in one of the drawing-rooms.

He knew her for a clever, rather brilliant young woman, with ideas, and the power to express
them.

It was evident to him that she had travelled and had seen a good deal
of the world and its men and women; she could talk politics with
far more knowledge and insight than most women; she knew more than
a little of economic matters, and was inclined, like Appleyard himself,
to utilitarianism in all things affecting government and society.

But of herself she never spoke directly; all Appleyard knew of her
concerns was that she was engaged in business of some nature, and
went to it every morning as regularly and punctually as he went to
his.

He judged that whatever her business was she must be well paid for
it, or must possess means of her own; nobody, man or woman, could
possibly live at that boarding-house, or private hotel, as its proprietors
preferred to call it, for anything less than four guineas a week.

Well-- here was the explanation of Miss Slade's business; she was evidently private secretary
to Mr. Franklin Fullaway, and competent to do business at a place
like Rothschild's. And why not?-- yet... why did she call herself
Miss Slade at the boarding-house and Mrs. Marlow in her business
capacity?"

And yet why shouldn't she? "asked Appleyard of himself." A woman's a right to do what she likes in
that way, and she isn't necessarily deceitful because she passes as a single woman in one place
and a widow in another. I daresay she could give a very good reason for all this-- but who's got
any right to ask her for one? Not me, certainly! "He had no intention of asking Miss Slade anything
when he left the City for Bayswater that evening, but chance threw him into her immediate company
in one of the lounges, where, after dinner, they met at a table on which the evening newspapers were
laid out. As Miss Slade picked up one, Appleyard picked up another-- certain big, strong letters
on the front sheets of both gave him an opening."

Have you read anything about this affair? "he asked, with apparent carelessness, pointing to a
row of capitals." This extraordinary murder-robbery business which is becoming the talk of the town?
Murders of three people-- theft of nearly three hundred thousand pounds'worth of jewels-- and
fifty thousand pounds reward! It's colossal!

"Miss Slade, without showing the slightest shade of interest, shook her head." I don't read murders,
"she answered." Fifty thousand pounds reward! That's an awful lot, isn't it? "" Worth trying for,
anyway! "replied Appleyard. He gave her a sly look, and smiled grimly."
I think I'll try for it, "he said." Fifty thousand! "" How could any
one try unless he or she's some clue? "she asked." If you don't know anything
about it, or any of the persons concerned, where would you begin?

"" There are plenty of persons named in these accounts about whom
one could find something out, at any rate, "replied Appleyard, tapping
the newspaper with his finger."

There's a Russian Princess with a sneezy sort of name; a Yorkshire manufacturer named Allerdyke; an
American man called Franklin Fullaway-- all seem to be well-known people in town. You ever hear of
any of them? "Miss Slade turned a face of absolute indifference on
him and the paper to which he was pointing." Never, "she answered
calmly."

But I daresay I shall hear of them now-- for nine days. "Then she went off, with her own newspaper,
and Appleyard carried his to a corner and sat down." That's a lie! "he said to himself." And a woman
who will tell a lie as calmly and quietly as that will tell a thousand
with equal assurance and cleverness. She-- "There he stopped. In the
doorway Miss Slade had also stopped-- stopped to speak to another
resident, a man, about whom Ambler Appleyard had often wondered as
keenly as he was now wondering about Miss Slade herself.

CHAPTER XVI MR. GERALD RAYNER There were various reasons why Ambler
Appleyard's wonder had often been aroused by the man to whom Miss
Slade had stopped to speak.

He wondered about him, first of all, because of his personal appearance. That was striking enough
to excite wonder in anybody, for he was one of those remarkable men who possess great beauty of countenance
allied to unfortunate deformity of body. The face was that of a poet and a dreamer, the body that of
a hunchback and a cripple. Painter or sculptor alike would have rejoiced to depict the face on canvas
or carve it in marble-- its perfect shape, fine tinting, the lines of the features, the beauty
of the eyes, the wealth of the dark, clustering hair, were all as near artistic perfection as could be.
But all else spoke of deformity-- the badly bent back, the twisted body, the short leg, the
misshapen foot. It was as if Nature had endeavoured in some wickedly mischievous freak to show
how beauty and ugliness can be combined in one creature. That was one reason for wonder in Appleyard's
mind-- he had never come across quite this type before, though he knew that hunchbacks and cripples
are often gifted with unusual strength, and more than usual good looks, as if in ironic compensation
for their other disadvantages.

But there were others. Mr. Gerald Rayner-- everybody knew everybody
else's name in that private hotel, for they were all more or less permanent
residents-- was something of a mystery man. In spite of his deformity,
he was the best-dressed man in the house-- they were all smart men
there, but none of them came up to him in the way of clothes, linen,
and personal adornment, always in the best and most cultured taste.

Also it was easy to gather that he was a young man of large means. Although he made full use of
the public rooms, and was always in and about them of an evening, from
dinner-time to a late hour, he tenanted a private suite of apartments
in the hotel-- those residents, few in number, who had been privileged
to obtain entrance to them spoke with almost awed admiration of their
occupant's books, pictures, and objects of art.

Mr. Gerald Rayner, it was evident, was a man of culture-- that, indeed, was shown by his conversation.
And at first Appleyard had set him down as a poet, or an artist,
or a writing man of some sort-- a dilettante who possessed private
means.

Then, being a sharp observer of all that went on around his own centre, he began to perceive that he
must be mistaken in that-- Rayner was obviously a business man, like himself. For every morning,
at precisely half-past nine, a smart motor-brougham arrived at the
door of the private hotel and carried Rayner off Citywards; every
afternoon at exactly half-past five the same conveyance brought him
back.

Only business men, said Appleyard, are so regular, so punctual; therefore
Rayner must be a business man.

But nobody in that hotel knew anything whatever of Rayner, beyond what they saw of him within
its walls. Nobody knew whither the motor-brougham carried him, what he did when he reached his
destination, nobody knew what or who he was.

Appleyard, who was always knocking about the heart of the City, who was
for ever in its business streets, who knew all the City clubs, all
the best City restaurants, and was familiar with all sorts and shades
of life in the City, never saw Rayner in any of his own purlieus.

Accordingly, he came to the conclusion that Rayner's business, whatever
it was, did not take him to the City.

Nevertheless, it was certain, in Appleyard's opinion, that he was
in business, and paid scrupulous attention to his daily duties.

Over the edge of his newspaper he watched Rayner and Miss Slade meet,
exchange a word or two, and retire to a corner of an inner lounge
in which they often sat talking together.

He had often seen them talking together, and it had struck him that
they seemed to talk with more than ordinary confidence.

The hunchback was on terms of easy familiarity with everybody in
the house, and he had a remarkable range of topics.

He could talk sport, books, finance, politics, art, science, history, theology-- the variety of his
conversation was astonishing.

But Appleyard had begun to notice that he rarely talked to any single person with the exception of
Miss Slade-- he would join a group in smoking-room or drawing-room
and enter gaily into whatever was being discussed, but he seemed to
have no desire to hold a tête-a-tête talk with any one except this
young woman, who was now as much an object of mystery and speculation
to Appleyard as he himself was.

They were often seen talking together in quiet corners-- and some of the old maids and eligible
widows were already saying that Miss Slade was setting her cap at Mr. Rayner's evident deep purse.
Ambler Appleyard went to bed that night wondering greatly about two matters-- first, why Miss Slade was
Miss Slade in Bayswater and Mrs. Marlow at Fullaway's office; second,
if Miss Slade or Mrs. Marlow, whichever she really was, had any secrets
with the mysterious Mr. Rayner.

From that he got to wondering who Rayner really was, and what his
business was.



Then a little flock of pigeons flew up and separated, under the illusion that they were free
agents and masters of the air, but really wafted away to fixed destinations on the stupendous
atmospheric waves of still-continued cheering.

After a minute or two the ball was restarted, and the greater noise had diminished to the sensitive
uneasy murmur which responded like a delicate instrument to the fluctuations of the game. Each
feat and manoeuvre of Knype drew generous applause in proportion to its intention or its success,
and each sleight of the Manchester Rovers, successful or not, provoked a holy disgust. The
attitude of the host had passed beyond morality into religion.

Then, again, while my attention had lapsed from the field, a devilish, a barbaric, and a deafening
yell broke from those fifteen thousand passionate hearts. It thrilled me; it genuinely frightened
me. I involuntarily made the motion of swallowing. After the thunderous crash of anger from
the host came the thin sound of a whistle. The game stopped. I heard the same word repeated
again and again, in divers tones of exasperated fury:

"Foul!"

I felt that I was hemmed in by potential homicides, whose arms were lifted in the desire of
murder and whose features were changed from the likeness of man into the corporeal form of
some pure and terrible instinct.

And I saw a long doll rise from the ground and approach a lesser doll with threatening hands.

"Foul! Foul!"

"Go it, Jos! Knock his neck out! Jos! He tripped thee up!"

There was a prolonged gesticulatory altercation between the three black dolls in leather leggings
and several of the white and the red dolls. At last one of the mannikins in leggings shrugged
his shoulders, made a definite gesture to the other two, and walked away towards the edge of
the field nearest the stand. It was the unprincipled referee; he had disallowed the foul. In
the protracted duel between the offending Manchester forward and the great, honest Jos Myatt
he had given another point to the enemy. As soon as the host realized the infamy it yelled
once more in heightened fury. It seemed to surge in masses against the thick iron railings
that alone stood between the referee and death. The discreet referee was approaching the grand
stand as the least unsafe place. In a second a handful of executioners had somehow got on to
the grass. And in the next second several policemen were in front of them, not striking nor
striving to intimidate, but heavily pushing them into bounds.

"Get back there!" cried a few abrupt, commanding voices from the stand.

The referee stood with his hands in his pockets and his whistle in his mouth. I think that
in that moment of acutest suspense the whole of his earthly career must have flashed before
him in a phantasmagoria. And then the crisis was past. The inherent gentlemanliness of the
outraged host had triumphed and the referee was spared.

"Served him right if they'd man-handled him!" said a spectator.

"Ay!" said another, gloomily, "ay! And th' Football Association 'ud ha' fined us maybe a hundred
quid and disqualified th' ground for the rest o' th' season!"

"D----n th' Football Association!"

"Ay! But you canna'!"

"Now, lads! Play up, Knype! Now, lads! Give 'em hot hell!" Different voices heartily encouraged
the home team as the ball was thrown into play.

The fouling Manchester forward immediately resumed possession of the ball. Experience could
not teach him. He parted with the ball and got it again, twice. The devil was in him and in
the ball. The devil was driving him towards Myatt. They met. And then came a sound quite new:
a cracking sound, somewhat like the snapping of a bough, but sharper, more decisive.

"By Jove!" exclaimed Stirling. "That's his bone!"

And instantly he was off down the staircase and I after him. But he was not the first doctor
on the field. Nothing had been unforeseen in the wonderful organization of this enterprise.
A pigeon sped away and an official doctor and an official stretcher appeared, miraculously,
simultaneously. It was tremendous. It inspired awe in me.

"He asked for it!" I heard a man say as I hesitated on the shore of the ocean of mud.

Then I knew that it was Manchester and not Knype that had suffered. The confusion and hubbub
were in a high degree disturbing and puzzling. But one emotion emerged clear: pleasure. I felt
it myself. It is because we have let ourselves be influenced into giving only to receive. It
is because we have aimed at turning society into a commercial company
based on debit and credit.

After
all, the Collectivists know this themselves. They vaguely understand that a society could not
exist if it carried out the principle of "Each according to his deeds." They have a notion that
necessaries-- we do not speak of whims-- the needs of the individual, do not always correspond
to his works. Thus De Paepe tells us: "The principle-- the eminently Individualist principle-- would,
however, be tempered by social intervention for the education of children and young persons
(including maintenance and lodging), and by the social organization for assisting the infirm
and the sick, for retreats for aged workers, etc." They understand that a man of forty, father
of three children, has other needs than a young man of twenty.

They know that the woman who suckles her infant and spends sleepless
nights at its bedside, cannot do as much work as the man who has slept
peacefully.

They seem to take in that men and women, worn out maybe by dint of overwork for society, may be
incapable of doing as much work as those who have spent their time leisurely and pocketed
their "labour-notes" in the privileged career of State functionaries.

They are eager to temper their principle. They say: "Society will not fail to maintain and bring
up its children; to help both aged and infirm. Without doubt needs will be the measure of the cost
that society will burden itself with, to temper the principle of
deeds."

Charity, charity, always Christian charity, organized by the State this time. They believe in improving
the asylums for foundlings, in effecting old-age and sick insurances-- so
as to temper their principle.

But they cannot yet throw aside the idea of "wounding first and healing
afterwards"!

Thus, after having denied Communism, after having laughed at their
ease at the formula-- "To each according to his needs"-- these great
economists discover that they have forgotten something, the needs
of the producers, which they now admit.

Only it is for the State to estimate them, for the State to verify
if the needs are not disproportionate to the work.

The State will dole out charity.

Thence to the English poor-law and the workhouse is but a step.

There is but a slight difference, because even this stepmother of
a society against whom we are in revolt has also been compelled to
temper her individualist principles; she, too, has had to make concessions
in a communist direction and under the same form of charity.

She, too, distributes halfpenny dinners to prevent the pillaging of
her shops; builds hospitals-- often very bad ones, but sometimes splendid
ones-- to prevent the ravages of contagious diseases.

She, too, after having paid the hours of labour, shelters the children of those she has wrecked.
She takes their needs into consideration and doles out charity.

Poverty, we have said elsewhere, was the primary cause of wealth.

It was poverty that created the first capitalist; because, before accumulating "surplus value,"
of which we hear so much, men had to be sufficiently destitute to
consent to sell their labour, so as not to die of hunger.

It was poverty that made capitalists. And if the number of the poor increased so rapidly during
the Middle Ages, it was due to the invasions and wars that followed the founding of States, and
to the increase of riches resulting from the exploitation of the
East.

These two causes tore asunder the bonds that kept men together in
the agrarian and urban communities, and taught them to proclaim the
principle of wages, so dear to the exploiters, instead of the solidarity
they formerly practiced in their tribal life.

And it is this principle that is to spring from a revolution which men dare to call by the name of
Social Revolution,-- a name so dear to the starved, the oppressed,
and the sufferers!

It can never be. For the day on which old institutions will fall under the proletarian axe, voices
will cry out: "Bread, shelter, ease for all!" And those voices will be listened to; the people
will say: "Let us begin by allaying our thirst for life, for happiness, for liberty, that we
have never quenched. And when we shall have tasted of this joy, we will set to work to demolish
the last vestiges of middle-class rule: its morality drawn from account books, its'debit and
credit'philosophy, its'mine and yours'institutions.'In demolishing we shall build,'as Proudhon said;
and we shall build in the name of Communism and Anarchy."

CHAPTER XIV CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION I Looking at society and its
political organization from a different standpoint than that of all
the authoritarian schools-- for we start from a free individual to
reach a free society, instead of beginning by the State to come down
to the individual-- we follow the same method in economic questions.

We study the needs of the individuals, and the means by which they
satisfy them, before discussing Production, Exchange, Taxation, Government,
and so on.

At first sight the difference may appear trifling, but in reality
it upsets all the canons of official Political Economy.

If you open the works of any economist you will find that he begins with PRODUCTION, i. e., by
the analysis of the means employed nowadays for the creation of wealth: division of labour, the
factory, its machinery, the accumulation of capital. From Adam Smith to Marx, all have proceeded
along these lines.

Only in the latter parts of their books do they treat of CONSUMPTION, that is to say, of the means
resorted to in our present Society to satisfy the needs of the individuals; and even there they
confine themselves to explaining how riches are divided among those
who vie with one another for their possession.

Perhaps you will say this is logical. Before satisfying needs you must
create the wherewithal to satisfy them. But, before producing anything,
must you not feel the need of it? Was it not necessity that first drove man
to hunt, to raise cattle, to cultivate land, to make implements,
and later on to invent machinery?

Is it not the study of the needs that should govern production?

To say the least, it would therefore be quite as logical to begin by
considering the needs, and afterwards to discuss how production is,
and ought to be, organized, in order to satisfy these needs. This
is precisely what we mean to do. But as soon as we look at Political
Economy from this point of view, it entirely changes its aspect.

It ceases to be a simple description of facts, and becomes a science, and we may define this science
as: "The study of the needs of mankind, and the means of satisfying
them with the least possible waste of human energy".

Its true name should be, Physiology of Society. It constitutes a parallel
science to the physiology of plants and animals, which is the study
of the needs of plants and animals, and of the most advantageous ways
of satisfying them.

In the series of sociological sciences, the economy of human societies takes the place, occupied in
the series of biological sciences by the physiology of organic bodies. We say, here are human beings, united
in a society. All of them feel the need of living in healthy houses.

The savage's hut no longer satisfies them; they require a more or
less comfortable solid shelter.

The question is, then: whether, taking the present capacity of men for
production, every man can have a house of his own? and what is hindering
him from having it?

And as soon as we ask this question, we see that every family in Europe could perfectly well
have a comfortable house, such as are built in England, in Belgium,
or in Pullman City, or else an equivalent set of rooms.

A certain number of days'work would suffice to build a pretty little
airy house, well fitted up and lighted by electricity.

But nine-tenths of Europeans have never possessed a healthy house, because at all times common
people have had to work day after day to satisfy the needs of their rulers, and have never had the necessary
leisure or money to build, or to have built, the home of their dreams. And they can have
no houses, and will inhabit hovels as long as present conditions
remain unchanged.

It is thus seen that our method is quite contrary to that of the
economists, who immortalize the so-called laws of production, and,
reckoning up the number of houses built every year, demonstrate by
statistics, that as the number of the new-built houses is too small
to meet all demands, nine-tenths of Europeans must live in hovels.

Let us pass on to food. After having enumerated the benefits accruing from the division of
labour, economists tell us the division of labour requires that some men should work at agriculture
and others at manufacture. Farmers producing so much, factories so much, exchange being carried
on in such a way, they analyze the sale, the profit, the net gain
or the surplus value, the wages, the taxes, banking, and so on.

But after having followed them so far, we are none the wiser, and if we ask them: "How is it that
millions of human beings are in want of bread, when every family could grow sufficient wheat
to feed ten, twenty, and even a hundred people annually?" they answer us by droning the same anthem--
division of labour, wages, surplus value, capital, etc.-- arriving
at the same conclusion, that production is insufficient to satisfy
all needs; a conclusion which, if true, does not answer the question:
"Can or cannot man by his labour produce the bread he needs?

And if he cannot, what is it that hinders him?" Here are 350 million Europeans. They need so much
bread, so much meat, wine, milk, eggs, and butter every year. They
need so many houses, so much clothing. This is the minimum of their
needs.

Can they produce all this? and if they can, will sufficient leisure be
left them for art, science, and amusement?-- in a word, for everything
that is not comprised in the category of absolute necessities?

If the answer is in the affirmative,-- What hinders them going ahead? What must they do to remove
the obstacles? Is it time that is needed to achieve such a result? Let them take it! But let us not
lose sight of the aim of production-- the satisfaction of the needs of all. If the most imperious needs
of man remain unsatisfied now,-- What must we do to increase the
productivity of our work?

But is there no other cause? Might it not be that production, having lost sight of the needs of man,
has strayed in an absolutely wrong direction, and that its organization is at fault? And as
we can prove that such is the case, let us see how to reorganize production so as to really satisfy
all needs. This seems to us the only right way of facing things. The only way that would allow of
Political Economy becoming a science-- the Science of Social Physiology.

It is evident that so long as science treats of production, as it
is carried on at present by civilized nations, by Hindoo communes, or
by savages, it can hardly state facts otherwise than the economists
state them now; that is to say, as a simple descriptive chapter, analogous
to the descriptive chapters of Zoology and Botany. But if this chapter
were written so as to throw some light on the economy of the energy that
is necessary to satisfy human needs, the chapter would gain in precision,
as well as in descriptive value. It would clearly show the frightful
waste of human energy under the present system, and it would prove
that as long as this system exists, the needs of humanity will never
be satisfied.

The point of view, we see, would be entirely changed.

Behind the loom that weaves so many yards of cloth, behind the steel-plate
perforator, and behind the safe in which dividends are hoarded, we
should see man, the artisan of production, more often than not excluded
from the feast he has prepared for others.

We should also understand that the standpoint being wrong, the so-called
"laws" of value and exchange are but a very false explanation of
events, as they happen nowadays; and that things will come to pass
very differently when production is organized in such a manner as
to meet all needs of society.

II There is not one single principle of Political Economy that does
not change its aspect if you look at it from our point of view.

Take, for instance, over-production, a word which every day re-echoes in our ears. Is there a single economist,
academician, or candidate for academical honours, who has not supported arguments, proving that
economic crises are due to over-production-- that at a given moment more cotton, more cloth,
more watches are produced than are needed! Have we not, all of us, thundered against the rapacity
of the capitalists who are obstinately bent on producing more than can possibly be consumed! However,
on careful examination all these reasonings prove unsound.

In fact, Is there one single commodity among those in universal use which is produced in greater quantity
than need be. Examine one by one all commodities sent out by countries exporting on a large scale,
and you will see that nearly all are produced in insufficient quantities for the inhabitants
of the countries exporting them. It is not a surplus of wheat that the Russian peasant sends
to Europe.

The most plentiful harvests of wheat and rye in European Russia only yield enough for the population.
And as a rule, the peasant deprives himself of what he actually needs
when he sells his wheat or rye to pay rent and taxes.

It is not a surplus of coal that England sends to the four corners of the globe, because only three-quarters
of a ton, per head of population, annually, remains for home domestic consumption, and millions of
Englishmen are deprived of fire in the winter, or have only just enough to boil a few vegetables.
In fact, setting aside useless luxuries, there is in England, which
exports more than any other country, one single commodity in universal
use-- cottons-- whose production is sufficiently great to perhaps
exceed the needs of the community.

Yet when we look upon the rags that pass for wearing apparel worn by over a third of the inhabitants
of the United Kingdom, we are led to ask ourselves whether the cottons exported
would not, on the whole, suit the real needs of the population?

As a rule it is not a surplus that is exported, though it may have
been so originally. The fable of the barefooted shoemaker is as true of
nations as it was formerly of individual artisans.

We export the necessary commodities.

And we do so, because the workmen cannot buy with their wages what they have produced, and
pay besides the rent and interest to the capitalist and the banker. Not only does the ever-growing
need of comfort remain unsatisfied, but the strict necessities of life are often wanting. Therefore,
"surplus production" does not exist, at least not in the sense given
to it by the theorists of Political Economy. Taking another point--
all economists tell us that there is a well-proved law: "Man produces
more than he consumes." After he has lived on the proceeds of his
toil, there remains a surplus.

Thus, a family of cultivators produces enough to feed several families,
and so forth.

For us, this oft-repeated sentence has no sense.

If it meant that each generation leaves something to future generations,
it would be true; thus, for example, a farmer plants a tree that
will live, maybe, for thirty, forty, or a hundred years, and whose
fruits will still be gathered by the farmer's grandchildren.

Or he clears a few acres of virgin soil, and we say that the heritage of future generations has
been increased by that much. Roads, bridges, canals, his house and
his furniture are so much wealth bequeathed to succeeding generations.
But this is not what is meant. We are told that the cultivator produces
more than he need consume.

Rather should they say that, the State having always taken from him a large
share of his produce for taxes, the priest for tithe, and the landlord
for rent, a whole class of men has been created, who formerly consumed
what they produced-- save what was set aside for unforeseen accidents,
or expenses incurred in afforestation, roads, etc.-- but who to-day
are compelled to live very poorly, from hand to mouth, the remainder
having been taken from them by the State, the landlord, the priest,
and the usurer.

Therefore we prefer to say: The agricultural labourer, the industrial
worker and so on consume less than they produce,-- because they are
compelled to sell most of the produce of their labour and to be satisfied
with but a small portion of it.

Let us also observe that if the needs of the individual are taken
as the starting-point of our political economy, we cannot fail to
reach Communism, an organization which enables us to satisfy all needs
in the most thorough and economical way.

While if we start from our present method of production, and aim at
gain and surplus value, without asking whether our production corresponds
to the satisfaction of needs, we necessarily arrive at Capitalism,
or at most at Collectivism-- both being but two different forms of
the present wages'system.

In fact, when we consider the needs of the individual and of society,
and the means which man has resorted to in order to satisfy them during
his varied phases of development, we see at once the necessity of systematizing
our efforts, instead of producing haphazard as we do nowadays.

It becomes evident that the appropriation by a few of all riches not consumed, and transmitted from one
generation to another, is not in the general interest. And we see as a fact that owing to these methods
the needs of three-quarters of society are not satisfied, so that
the present waste of human strength in useless things is only the
more criminal.

We
discover, moreover, that the most advantageous use of all commodities would be, for each of them, to go,
first, for satisfying those needs which are the most pressing: that, in other words, the so-called
"value in use" of a commodity does not depend on a simple whim,
as has often been affirmed, but on the satisfaction it brings to
real needs.

Communism-- that is to say, an organization which would correspond
to a view of Consumption, Production, and Exchange, taken as a whole--
therefore becomes the logical consequence of such a comprehension of things--
the only one, in our opinion, that is really scientific.

A society that will satisfy the needs of all, and which will know
how to organize production to answer to this aim will also have to make
a clean sweep of several prejudices concerning industry, and first of
all the theory often preached by economists-- The Division of Labour
theory-- which we are going to discuss in the next chapter.

CHAPTER XV THE DIVISION OF LABOUR Political Economy has always confined
itself to stating facts occurring in society, and justifying them
in the interest of the dominant class.

Therefore, it pronounces itself in favour of the division of labour
in industry.

Having found it profitable to capitalists, it has set it up as a
principle.

Look at the village smith, said Adam Smith, the father of modern Political Economy. If he has
never been accustomed to making nails he will only succeed by hard
toil in forging two or three hundred a day, and even then they will
be bad.

But if this same smith has never made anything but nails, he will easily supply as many as two
thousand three hundred in the course of a day. And Smith hastened to the conclusion-- "Divide labour,
specialize, go on specializing; let us have smiths who only know
how to make heads or points of nails, and by this means we shall produce
more.

We shall grow rich." That a smith condemned for life to make the heads of nails would lose all interest
in his work, that he would be entirely at the mercy of his employer with his limited handicraft,
that he would be out of work four months out of twelve, and that
his wages would fall very low down, when it would be easy to replace
him by an apprentice, Smith did not think of all this when he exclaimed--
"Long live the division o£ labour. As the key of
the bookcase was in his right pocket and the lamp in his right hand he had to change the lamp,
cautiously, from hand to hand. When he opened the cupboard I saw a rich gleam of silver from
every shelf of it except the lowest, and I could distinguish the forms of ceremonial cups with
pedestals and immense handles.

"I suppose these are your pots?" I said.

"Ay!"

He displayed to me the fruits of his manifold victories. I could see him straining along endless
cinder-paths and highroads under hot suns, his great knees going up and down like treadles
amid the plaudits and howls of vast populations. And all that now remained of that glory was
these debased and vicious shapes, magnificently useless, grossly ugly, with their inscriptions
lost in a mess of flourishes.

"Ay!" he said again, when I had fingered the last of them.

"A very fine show indeed!" I said, resuming the sofa.

He took a penny bottle of ink and a pen out of the bookcase, and also, from the lowest shelf,
a bag of money and a long narrow account book. Then he sat down at the table and commenced
accountancy. It was clear that he regarded his task as formidable and complex. To see him reckoning
the coins, manipulating the pen, splashing the ink, scratching the page; to hear him whispering
consecutive numbers aloud, and muttering mysterious anathemas against the untamable naughtiness
of figures--all this was painful, and with the painfulness of a simple exercise rendered difficult
by inaptitude and incompetence. I wanted to jump up and cry to him: "Get out of the way, man,
and let me do it for you! I can do it while you are wiping hairs from your pen on your sleeve."
I was sorry for him because he was ridiculous--and even more grotesque than ridiculous. I felt,
quite acutely, that it was a shame that he could not be for ever the central figure of a field
of mud, kicking a ball into long and grandiose parabolas higher than gasometers, or breaking
an occasional leg, surrounded by the violent affection of hearts whose melting-point was the
exclamation, "Good old Jos!" "And I should know him again anywhere-- the scoundrel!"

The high official smiled and glanced at Fullaway.

"You are thinking, Miss Lennard, that the man you then saw is the man who accompanied your maid
to the hotel in which she was found dead," he said. "Well, that may be so-- but it mayn't.
That is why I want you to give us an accurate description of the man you saw. You described
the maid very well indeed. Now describe the man."

"I can do that quite well," said Celia, with assurance. "And I can tell you the circumstances.
The steamer-- the Perisco-- got into the river at Hull about a quarter to nine and anchored off
the Victoria Pier. We understood that she couldn't get into dock just then because of the tide,
and that we must go on shore by tender. A tender came off-- some of the people on board it came
on our deck. There was a good deal of bustle. I went down to my cabin to see after something
or other. Lisette came to me there, evidently much agitated, saying that her brother had come
off on the tender to fetch her at once to their mother who was ill in London-- dying. She begged
to be allowed to go with him. Of course I said she might. She immediately picked up her suit-case
and travelling coat out of our pile of luggage, and I went up with her on deck. She and the man-- her
brother, as I understood-- got into a small boat which was alongside and went straight off to
the pier: the tender was not leaving for shore for some time. And-- that
was the last I saw of her.

It was all done in a minute or two."

"Now-- the man," suggested the chief softly.

"A young man-- about Lisette's age, I should say-- twenty-seven to thirty anyway. Tallish. Dark
hair, moustache, eyes, and complexion. Good-looking-- in a foreign way. I had no doubt he was her brother--
he looked French, though he spoke English quite well and without accent. Very respectably dressed
in dark clothes and overcoat. He would have passed for a well-to-do clerk-- that type. I spoke
to him-- a few words. He spoke well-- had very polite, almost polished manners. Of course he was
hurried-- wanting to get Lisette away-- he said they could just catch
the last train to London."

The
chief shook his head.

"Not the man who accompanied her to the Paddington Hotel," he said. "Listen-- this is the description
of that man, as given to the police by the landlady and her servants:'Age,
presumably between forty and forty-five years, medium height.

Brown hair. Clean-shaven. Dressed in grey tweed suit, over which he wore a fawn-coloured overcoat.
Deerstalker hat-- light brown. Brown brogue shoes.'That, you see," continued the chief, "describes
a quite different person. You do not recognize the description as that of any man you have ever
seen in company with your late maid, Miss Lennard?"

"I never saw my maid in any man's company," replied Celia.

"Since I first engaged her we have not been much in London.

I was in New York and Chicago for a time last year; then in Paris; then in Milan and Turin; lately
in Moscow and St. Petersburg. When we were at home, here in London, she certainly had time of her
own-- her evenings out, you know-- but of course I don't know with whom she spent them. No--
I don't know any man answering that description."

The chief folded up his papers and restored them to his desk.

"Now that you are here," he said, "you may as well give me a few particulars
about your doings on the Perisco, especially as they relate to Mr.
James Allerdyke.

When and where did you make his acquaintance?"

"On the steamer-- a few hours after we left Christiania," replied
Celia.

"Just as fellow-passengers, I suppose?"

"Quite so-- just that. We sat next to each other at meals."

"Do you know where his cabin was on the steamer?"

"Yes, exactly opposite my own. He and I, I believe, were the only passengers who had cabins all
to ourselves."

"Did he ever mention to you these valuables which Mr. Fullaway tells
us he was carrying to England!"

"No-- never
at any time."

"Did you see him leave the Perisco for the shore?"

"Why, yes, certainly! As a matter of fact, he and I came ashore at
Hull together, ahead of any other passengers.

After Lisette had left the steamer with her brother, I happened to come across Mr. James Allerdyke.
I told him what had just occurred, and asked him if he would help
me about my things, as my maid had gone.

He immediately suggested that we shouldn't wait for the tender, but
should get a boat of our own-- there were several lying around.

He said he was in a great hurry to get ashore, because he'd a friend awaiting him at the Station
Hotel. So he got a boat, and his things and mine were put into it, and we left the steamer, and
were rowed to the landing-stage, just opposite."

"And you, of course, carried your jewel-case-- or what you believed to be your jewel-case-- the
duplicate chest which you subsequently carried to Edinburgh?"

"Yes, of course-- I had it in my hand when Lisette left, and, I never
left hold of it until I got into the hotel."

"Do you remember if Mr. James Allerdyke carried anything in his hand?"

"Yes, he carried a hand-bag.

He had that bag in his hand when I met him on deck; he kept it on
his knee in the boat, and in the cab in which we drove to the hotel
from the landing-stage; I saw him carrying it upstairs after we got
to the hotel.

What is more, I saw him bring it into the coffee-room later on, and
place it on the table at which he had some supper.

I saw it again in his room when I went in there to look at the plans of the Norwegian estate
which he had told me about. He didn't take those plans out of that
hand-bag; he took them out of a side flap-pocket in a suit-case."

"Did you have supper with him that night?"

"No-- I was sitting at another table, talking to a lady who had been with us on the Perisco. A lot
of Perisco passengers-- twenty, at least-- had come to the hotel
by that time."

"Did any of them join Mr. James Allerdyke-- at his table, I mean?"

"I don't remember-- no, I think not.

He sat at a table, one end of which adjoined the wall-- he put the
hand-bag at that end.

I remember wondering why he carried his bag about with him.

But then I, of course, was carrying what I believed to be my jewel-case."

"Did you see him talking to any of your fellow-passengers that night?"

"Oh, yes-- to two or three of them-- in the hall of the hotel.

I didn't know who they were, particularly-- except the doctor with
the big beard.

I saw him talking to Mr. Allerdyke at the door of the smoking-room." "Had you taken any special notice
of your fellow passengers on board the Perisco?"

"No-- not at all. They were just the usual sort of passengers-- I wasn't
interested in them.

Of course, I talked to some of them, in the ordinary way, as one does
talk on board ship.

But I don't remember anything particular about them, nor any of
their names, even if I ever knew their names.

Of course I remember Mr. James Allerdyke's name, because of the business
talk."

The chief, who had been making shorthand notes of this conversation, paused
for a moment, evidently considering matters, and then turned to Celia
with a smile.

"Why did you leave the hotel at Hull so suddenly?" he asked. "I daresay you had good reasons, but I
should just like to know what they were, if you don't mind."

"I'd no reason at all," replied Celia, with almost blunt directness. "At least, if I had, they
were only a woman's reasons. I was a bit upset at being left alone.

I didn't like the hotel. I knew I shouldn't sleep. It was a most beautiful
moonlight night, and I suddenly thought I'd like to go motoring.

I knew enough of the geography of those parts to know if I motored across country I should strike
the Great Northern main line somewhere and catch a train to Edinburgh
in the early morning.

So-- I just cleared out." "Ah-- you see you had quite a number of reasons!" said the chief, smiling
again. "Very well. Now then, before you go, Miss Lennard, I want you
to do just one thing more which may be useful to us in our work."

He turned to the detective.

"Get those things," he said quietly. "Bring the lot in here." Celia made a little sound of distaste
as the detective presently returned to the room carrying in one hand a brown leather suit-case,
and in the other a cardboard dress-box, to which was strapped a travelling-coat,
lined with fur.

Her face, which had regained its colour, paled again.

"Lisette's things!" she muttered. "Oh-- I don't-- don't like to see them! What is it you want?"
"We want you to identify them-- and, if you will, to look them over," replied the chief. "The
cardboard box contains everything she was wearing when she went to
the hotel in Eastbourne Terrace; the suit-case and coat are what she
took in with her.

Spread the things out on that side table," he continued, turning
to the detective.

"Let Miss Lennard look them over." Celia performed the task required
of her with dislike-- it seemed somehow as if she were inspecting
the dead woman afresh.

She hurried over the task.

"All these things are hers, of course," she said. "That's the suit-case she had with her when she left
me at Hull, and that's the coat I gave her-- and the other things
are hers, too. Oh-- I don't like looking at them. Can't we go, please?"
"One moment," said the chief.

"I wanted to tell you that amongst all these things there is nothing
that establishes the woman's identity-- I mean in the way of papers
or anything of that sort.

There were no letters in this case-- not a scrap of paper.

There is money in that purse-- two or three pounds in gold, some silver.
There is her watch-- a good gold watch-- and there are two or three
rings she was wearing.

Now we have only made a superficial examination of all these personal
belongings-- can you, as her mistress, suggest if she was likely to
hide anything in her clothing, and if so, in what article?

You might save us some trouble, Miss Lennard."

Allerdyke, who was more interested in Celia than in what was going on, saw a sudden gleam come into
her eyes-- her feminine spirit of curiosity was aroused.

She hesitated, turned back to the side-table, paused before the various
articles laid out there, took up and fingered two or three, and suddenly
wheeled round on the men, exhibiting a quilted handkerchief case.

"There's something been sewn into the padding of this!" she said. "I
can feel it. Can any one lend me pocket-scissors or a penknife?" The
men gathered round as Celia's deft fingers ripped open the satin
covering: a moment later she drew out a wad of folded paper and handed
it to the chief.

Fullaway and Allerdyke craned their necks over his shoulders as he
unwrapped and spread the bits of paper out before them.

And it was Fullaway who broke the silence with a sharp exclamation.

"Bank-notes!" he said. "Russian bank-notes! And new ones!" CHAPTER
XII THE THIRD MURDER Fullaway's exclamation was followed by a murmur
of astonishment from Celia, and by a low growl which meant many things
from Allerdyke.

The chief turned the banknotes over silently, moved to his desk, and picked up a reference
book. "I'm not very familiar with Russian money-- paper or otherwise,"
he remarked. "How much does this represent in ours, now?"

"I can tell you that," said Fullaway, taking the wad of notes and
rapidly counting them.

"Five hundred pounds English," he announced. "And you see that all
the notes are new-- don't forget to note that." "Yes?-- what do you
argue from it?" asked the chief, with obvious interest.

"It proves-- what?" "That these notes were given to this woman in Russia, recently-- most likely
in St. Petersburg," replied the American. "And, in my opinion, their presence-- their discovery--
proves more.

It suggests at any rate that this woman, the dead maid, was a tool in the conspiracy to rob Miss
Lennard and Mr. James Allerdyke, that this money is her reward, or
part of it, and that the whole scheme was hatched and engineered in
Russia."

"Good!" muttered Allerdyke. "Now we're getting to business." "We shall have to get some evidence
from Russia," observed the chief meditatively. "That's very evident. If the thing began there, or was
put into active shape there--" "The Princess Nastirsevitch is on her way now," said Fullaway. He pulled
out his pocket-book, and began searching amongst its papers.

"Here you are," he continued producing a cablegram.

"That's from the Princess-- you see she says she's leaving for London
at once, via Berlin and Calais, and will call upon me at my hotel
as soon as she arrives.

Now, that was sent off two days ago-- she'd leave St. Petersburg
that night.

It's seventy-two hours'journey-- three days. She'll be in London tomorrow evening." The chief sat down at
his desk and picked up a pen. "Give me your addresses please, all of you," he said. "Then I can
communicate with you at any moment.

Miss Lennard, you mentioned Bedford Court Mansions. What number? Right.-- yours, Mr. Fullaway,
is the Waldorf Hotel-- permanently there?

Very good. You, Mr. Allerdyke, live in Bradford? It will be advisable,
if you really want to clear up the mystery of your cousin's death,
to remain in town for a few days, at any rate-- now that we've got
all this in hand, you'd better be close to the centre of things.

Can you give me an address here?" "I've a London office," answered Allerdyke. "I can always
be heard of there when I'm in town.

Allerdyke and Partners, Limited, Gresham Street-- ask for Mr. Marshall
Allerdyke.

But as
I'll have to put up here, I'll go to the Waldorf, with Mr. Fullaway,
so if you want me you'll find me there.

And look here," he went on, as the chief noted these particulars, "I want to know, to have some idea,
you know, of what's going to be done. I tell you, I'll spare no time, labour, or expense in getting
at the bottom of this! If it's a question of money, say the word,
and--"

"All right, Mr. Allerdyke, leave it to us-- for the present," said
the chief, with an understanding smile.

"I
know what you mean. We're only beginning. This affair is doubtless a big thing,
as Mr. Fullaway has suggested, and it will need some clever work. Now,
at present, this case-- the joint case of the Hull affair and the
Eastbourne Terrace affair, for they're without doubt both parts of
one serious whole-- is in the hands of two of my best men.

This is one of them: Detective-Sergeant Blindway. If
and when Blindway wants any of you, he'll come to you. Miss Lennard,
you'll be wanted at the inquest on your late maid-- the Coroner's officer
will let you know when. You two gentlemen will doubtless go with Miss
Lennard. You'll all three certainly be wanted at that adjourned inquest
at Hull. Now, that's all-- except that when you, Miss Lennard, return
home, you must at once begin searching for the references you had with
your maid-- let me have them as soon as they're found-- and that
you, Mr. Fullaway, must bring the Princess Nastirsevitch here as soon
as you can after her arrival."

Outside New Scotland Yard
Celia Lennard relieved her feelings with a fervent exclamation.

"I wish I'd never spent a penny on pearls
or diamonds in my life!" she said vehemently. "Insane folly! What good
have they done? Leading to all this bother, and to murder. What fools women
are! All that money thrown away!-- for of course I shall never see
a sign of them again!" "That's a rather hopeless way of looking at
it," observed Fullaway. "You've got the cleverest police in Europe on
the search for them; also you've got our friend Allerdyke and myself
on the run, and we're neither of us exactly brainless. So hasten
home in this taxi-cab, get some lunch, have an hour's nap, and then
begin putting your papers straight and looking for those references.

Search well!-- you don't know what depends
on it." He and Allerdyke strolled up Whitehall when Celia had gone-- in silence
at first, both wrapped in meditation.

"What do you mean?"

"A man like that--left with two babies!"

"Oh!" he said. "They'll manage that all right. His sister's a widow. She'll go and live with
him. She's as fond of those infants already as if they were her own."

We drew up at his double gates.

"Be sure ye explain to Brindley," he said, as I left him, "that it isn't my fault ye've had
a night out of bed. It was your own doing. I'm going to get a bit of sleep now. See you this
evening, Bob's asked me to supper."

A servant was sweeping Bob Brindley's porch and the front door was open. I went in. The sound
of the piano guided me to the drawing-room. Brindley, the morning cigarette between his lips,
was playing one of Maurice Ravel's "L'heure espagnole." He held his head back so as to keep
the smoke out of his eyes. His children in their blue jerseys were building bricks on the carpet.

Without ceasing to play he addressed me calmly:

"You're a nice chap! Where the devil have you been?"

And one of the little boys, glancing up, said, with roguish, imitative innocence, in his high,
shrill voice:

"Where the del you been?"

MIMI

I

On a Saturday afternoon in late October Edward Coe, a satisfactory average successful man of
thirty-five, was walking slowly along the King's Road, Brighton. A native and inhabitant of
the Five Towns in the Midlands, he had the brusque and energetic mien of the Midlands. It could
be seen that he was a stranger to the south; and, in fact, he was now viewing for the first
time the vast and glittering spectacle of the southern pleasure city in the unique glory of
her autumn season. A spectacle to enliven any man by its mere splendour! And yet Edward Coe
was gloomy. One reason for his gloom was that he had just left a bicycle, with a deflated back
tyre, to be repaired at a shop in Preston Street. Not perhaps an adequate reason for gloom!...
Well, that depends. He had been informed by the blue-clad repairer, after due inspection, that
the trouble was not a common puncture, but a malady of the valve mysterious.

And the deflation was not the sole cause of his gloom. There was another. He was on his honeymoon.
Understand me--not a honeymoon of romance, but a real honeymoon. Who that has ever been on
a real honeymoon can look back upon the adventure and faithfully say that it was an unmixed
ecstasy of joy? "It's here in this envelope," answered the landlady, who seemed to be much more
alert and much sharper of intellect than her husband. "I took care of it when we found out what had
happened. I suppose you'll take charge of it?"

"If you please," answered the chief.

He took the envelope, looked inside it to make sure that the card was there, and turned to
the landlady again.

"Yes?" he said. "When you found out what had happened. Now, who did
find out what had happened?"

"Well," answered the landlady, "the
chambermaid came down soon after eleven, and said she couldn't get
27 to answer her knock. Of course, I understood that he wanted to
catch the Rotterdam boat which sailed about noon, so I sent my husband
up. And as he couldn't get any answer--" The answer is that though Olive One and Olive Two were
treated as sisters, and even treated themselves as sisters, they were not sisters. Clearly not!
Even if it were a thing to be desired, it is not possible. History
does not wait for the laggards.

Besides,
we do not believe that in any one country the Revolution will be accomplished at a stroke, in
the twinkling of an eye, as some socialists dream. [4] It is highly probable that if one of the
five or six large towns of France-- Paris, Lyons, Marseilles, Lille, Saint-Etienne, Bordeaux-- were
to proclaim the Commune, the others would follow its example, and that many smaller towns would do the
same. Probably also various mining districts and industrial centres would hasten to rid themselves
of "owners" and "masters," and form themselves into free groups.

But many country places have not advanced to that point. Side by side with the revolutionized
communes such places would remain in an expectant attitude, and would
go on living on the Individualist system.

Undisturbed by visits of the bailiff or the tax-collector, the peasants would not be hostile
to the revolutionaries, and thus, while profiting by the new state of affairs, they would defer
the settlement of accounts with the local exploiters. But with that practical enthusiasm which
always characterizes agrarian uprisings (witness the passionate toil of 1792) they would throw
themselves into the task of cultivating the land, which, freed from taxes and mortgages, would
become so much dearer to them. Vaillac, a widower with two young
children, Mimi and Jean, was a Frenchman, and a great authority on the decoration of egg-shell
china, who had settled in the Five Towns as expert partner in one of the classic china firms
at Longshaw. He was undoubtedly a very attractive man.

Olive One, when the relations between herself and Vaillac were developing into something unmistakable,
had suddenly, and without warning, accused Olive Two of poaching. It was a frightful accusation,
and a frightful scene followed it, one of those scenes that are seldom forgiven and never forgotten.
It altered their lives; but as they were women of considerable common sense and of good breeding,
each did her best to behave afterwards as though nothing had happened.

Olive Two did not convince Olive One of her innocence, because she did not bring forward the
supreme proof of it. She was too proud--in her brooding and her mystery--to do so. The supreme
proof was that at this time she herself was secretly engaged to be married to Edward Coe, who
had conquered her heart with unimaginable swiftness a few weeks before she was about to sit
for a musical examination at Manchester. "Let us say nothing till after my exam," she had suggested
to her betrothed. "There will be an enormous fuss, and it will put me off, and I shall fail,
and I don't want to fail, and you don't want me to fail." He agreed rapturously. Of course
she did fail, nevertheless. But being obstinate she said she would go in again, and they continued
to make a secret of the engagement. They found the secret delicious. Then followed the devastating
episode of Vaillac. Shortly afterwards Olive One and Vaillac were married, and then Olive Two
was alone in the nice house. The examination was forgotten, and she hated the house. She wanted
to be married; Coe also. But nothing had been said. Difficult to announce her engagement just
then! The world would say that she had married out of imitation, and her sister would think
that she had married out of pique. Besides, there would be the fuss, which Olive Two hated.
Already the fuss of her sister's marriage, and the effort at the wedding of pretending that
nothing had happened between them, had fatigued the nerves of Olive Two.

Then Edward Coe had had the brilliant and seductive idea of marrying in secret. To slip away,
and then to return, saying, "We are married. That's all!" ... Why not? No fuss! No ceremonial!
The accomplished fact, which simplifies everything!

It was, therefore, a secret honeymoon that Edward Coe was on; delightful--but surreptitious,
furtive! The first settlers paid at the rate of one shilling per acre for their land. Four-fifths
of the entire Midland district, in 1818, was a dense forest. We can hardly realise the fact
that seventy years ago there was probably not a soul living in this
fair county.

Let us skip over a period of about forty years from the first settlement,
and have a look at the people and how they lived.

The log houses, in very many cases had been transformed into comfortable and commodious dwellings.
The log barns and hovels, too, had given place to larger frame barns and sheds, many of which
are still to be seen around the country. The changes wrought in those short years were wonderful,
and having followed the pioneer hither and noted his progress, let us step into one of these homes
and take a seat with the family gathered around the spacious fire-place, with its glowing fire
blazing up cheerfully through the heaped-up wood, and note the comforts and amusements of the
contented circle. How clearly the picture stands out to many of us. How well we remember the time
when, with young and vigorous step, we set our feet in the path which has led us farther and farther
away.

Now, please understand me in this matter. We have not a particle of sympathy with the ordinary
grumbler, by which we mean that class of persons whose noses are
not only stuck up at any and every encroachment on their worn-out
ideas of what is right and wrong, but, like crabbed terriers, snap
at the heels of every man that passes.

Nor do we wish you to think that we place our fathers on a higher plane of intellectual power
and worth than we have reached or can reach. The world rolls on, and decade after decade adds
to the accumulative brain force of humanity. Men of thought and power through all the ages have
scattered seed, and while much of it has come to naught, a kernel
here and there, possessed of vital force, has germinated and grown.

You remember what the great Teacher said about "a rain of mustard seed which a man took and sowed
in his field, which indeed is the least of all seeds, but when it
is grown it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that
the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof."

Any man who looks around him must acknowledge that we are going ahead,
but notwithstanding this, every careful observer cannot fail to see
that there is growing up in our land a large amount of sham, and hence,
as Isaiah tells us, it would be well for us to look more frequently
"into the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit whence
ye are digged."

Let us not only treasure the recollection of the noble example which
our fore-fathers set us, but let us imitate those sterling qualities
which render their names dear to us.

"It is a common complaint perpetually reiterated," remarks a racy writer, "that the occupations
of life are filled to overflowing; that the avenues to wealth or distinction are so crowded with competitors
that it is hopeless to endeavour to make way in the dense and jostling masses. This desponding
wail was doubtless heard when the young earth had scarcely commenced
her career of glory, and it will be dolefully repeated by future generations
to the end of time.

Long before Cheops had planted the basement-stone of his pyramids, when Sphinx and Colossi
had not yet been fashioned into their huge existence, and the untouched quarry had given out
neither temple nor monument, the young Egyptian, as he looked along the Nile, may have mourned
that he was born too late. Fate had done him injustice in withholding his individual being till the
destinies of man were accomplished.

His imagination exulted at what he might have been, had his chance
been commensurate with his merits, but what remained for him now in
this worn-out, battered, used-up hulk of a world, but to sorrow for
the good times which had exhausted all resources?"

The mournful lamentation of antiquity has not been weakened in its transmission, and it is not more
reasonable now than when it groaned by the Nile. There is always room enough in the world, and
work waiting for willing hands. The charm that conquers obstacles
and commands success is strong will and strong work.

Application is the friend and ally of genius. The laborious scholar, the diligent merchant, the
industrious mechanic, the hard-working farmer, are thriving men,
and take rank in the world; while genius by itself lies in idle admiration
of a fame that is ever prospective.

The hare sleeps or amuses himself by the wayside, and the tortoise
wins the race.

"More than forty-five years have elapsed since my father departed this life, and left me a lad,
the eldest of six children, to take his place, and assist my mother as well as I could in
the management of affairs.

Twenty years later mother was laid by his side, and before and since
all my sisters have gone.

For a number of years the only survivors of that once happy household, the memory of which is
so fresh and dear to me, have been myself and brother. Upper Canada was a vastly different place
at the time of my father's decease (1840) from what it is now.

The opportunities he had when young were proportionately few.

I have been a considerable wanderer in my day, and have had chances of seeing what the world has
accomplished, and of contrasting it with his time and advantages.

If his lines had fallen in another sphere of action he would have
made his mark.

As it was, during his short life-- he died at the age of 42-- he had
with his own hands acquired an excellent farm of 250 acres, with a
good, spacious, well-furnished house, barns, and out-buildings.

His farm was a model of order and thorough tillage, well stocked
with the best improved cattle, sheep, and hogs that could be had at
that time, and all the implements were the newest that could be procured.

He was out of debt, and therefore independent, and had money at interest.

This, it seems to me, was something for a man to accomplish in twenty years. But this was not
all.

He was acknowledged to be a man of intelligence superior to most in those days, and was frequently
consulted by neighbours and friends in matters of importance; a warm politician and a strict
temperance man. He was one of the best speakers in the district, always in request at public
meetings, and especially during an election campaign.

Into political contests he entered with all his might, and would sometimes be away a week
or more at a time, stumping-- as they used to term it-- the district.

In politics he was a Reformer, and under the then existing circumstances
I think I should have been one too.

But the vexed questions that agitated the public mind then, and against which he fought and
wrote, have been adjusted. An old co-worker of his said to me many years after at an election:"
What a pity your father could not have seen that you would oppose the party he laboured so
hard to build up. If a son of mine did it I would disinherit him as quick as I would shove a
toad off a stick. "I said to my old friend that I supposed the son had quite as good a right
to form his opinions on certain matters as his father had. Political and religious prejudices are
hard things to remove. I remember a deputation waiting on my father to get him to consent to
be a candidate for an election which was on the eve of taking place, but he declined, on the ground
that he was not prepared to assume so important a position then, nor did he feel that he had
reached a point which would warrant him in leaving his business. He added that after a while,
if his friends were disposed to confer such an honour upon him, he might consider it more
favourably.

Peter Perry was chosen, and I know my father worked hard for him,
and the Tory candidate, Cartwright, was defeated.

This reminds me of a little bit of banking history, which created
some noise in the district at the time, but which is quite forgotten
now.

A number of leading farmers, of whom my father was one, conceived the idea of establishing a" Farmers'Joint
Stock Bank, "which was subsequently carried out, and a bank bearing that name was started in Bath.
John S. Cartwright, the then member, through whom they expected to get a charter, and who was interested
in the Commercial Bank at Kingston, failed to realize their expectations
in that particular, and the new bank had to close its doors. The opening
was premature, and cost the stockholders a considerable sum of money.

This little banking episode helped to defeat Mr. Cartwright at the next election. Over thirty
years have passed since I left my old home, and change after change
has occurred as the years rolled along, until I have become a stranger
to nearly all the people of the neighbourhood, and feel strange where
I used to romp and play in boyhood.

The houses and fields have changed, the woods have been pushed further
back, and it is no longer the home that is fixed in my memory. My
visits have consequently become less and less frequent. On one of these
occasions I felt a strong inclination one Sabbath morning to visit
the old Quaker Meeting House about three miles away.

After making my toilette and breakfasting, I sallied forth, on foot and alone, through the fields
and woods. The day was such as I would have selected from a thousand. It was towards the last of
May-- a season wherein if a man's heart fail to dance blithely, he
must indeed be a victim of dulness.

The sun was moving upward in his diurnal course, and had just acquired
sufficient heat to render the shade of the wood desirable.

The heaven was cloudless, and soft languor rested on the face of
nature, stealing the mind's sympathy, and wooing it to the delights
of repose.

My mind was too much occupied with early recollections to do more
than barely notice the splendour and the symphonies around me.

The hum of the bee and the beetle, as they winged their swift flight onwards,
the song of the robin and the meadow lark, as they tuned their throats
to the praises of the risen sun, and the crowing of some distant chanticleer,
moved lazily in the sluggish air.

It was a season of general repose, just such a day, I think, as
a saint would choose to assist his fancy in describing the sunny regions
whither his thoughts delight to wander, or a poet would select to
refine his ideas of the climate of Elysium.

At length I arrived at the old meeting-house where I had often gone,
when a lad with my father and mother.

It was a wooden building standing at a corner of the road, and was among
the first places of worship erected in the Province. The effects
of the beating storms of nearly half a century were stamped on the
unpainted clapboards, and the shingles which projected just far enough
over the plate to carry off the water, were worn and partially covered
with moss.

One would look in vain, for anything that could by any possibility
be claimed as an ornament. Two small doors gave access to the interior,
which was as plain and ugly as the exterior. A partition, with doors,
that were let down during the time of worship, divided the room into
equal parts, and separated the men and women.

It was furnished with strong pine benches, with backs; and at the far
side were two rows of elevated benches, which were occupied on both
sides by leading members of the society.

I have often watched the row of broad-brims on one hand, and the scoop
bonnets on the other, with boyish interest, and wondered what particular
thing in the room they gazed at so steadily, and why some of them
twirled one thumb round the other with such regularity.

On this occasion I entered quietly, and took a seat near the door. There
were a number of familiar faces in the audience. Some whom I had known
when young were growing grey, but many of the well-remembered faces were
gone.

The gravity of the audience and the solemn silence were very impressive;
but still recollections of the past crowded from my mind the sacred
object which had brought the people together.

Now I looked at the old bayonet marks in the posts, made by the soldiers who had used it as a barrack
immediately after the war of 1812. Next, the letters of all shapes
and sizes cut by mischievous boys with their jacknives in the backs
of the seats years ago arrested my attention, and brought to mind
how weary I used to get; but as I always sat with my father, I dared
not try my hand at carving.

Then, the thought came: Where are those boys now? Some of them were
sober, sedate men sitting before me with their broad-brimmed hats
shadowing their faces; others were sleeping in the yard outside;
and others had left the neighbourhood years ago.

Then I thought of the great Quaker preacher and author, Joseph John Gurney, whom I had heard in this room,
and of J. Pease the philanthropic English banker. Then another incident of quite a different character
came to my recollection. An old and well known Hicksite preacher was there one Sunday (always
called First Day by the friends), and the spirit moved him to speak. The Hicksite and orthodox
Quakers were something like the Jews and Samaritans of old-- they dealt with one another, but
had no religious fellowship.

The old friend had said but a few words, when one of the leaders of the meeting rose and said very
gravely:" Sit thee down, James; "but James did not seem disposed to be choked off in this peremptory
way, and continued. Again the old friend stood up, and with stronger emphasis said:" James, I tell
thee to sit thee down; "and this time James subsided. There was nothing more said on the occasion,
and after a long silence, the meeting broke up. On another occasion, a
young friend, who had aspired to become a teacher, stood up, and
in that peculiar, drawling, sing-song tone which used to be a characteristic
of nearly all their preachers, said:" The birds of the air have nests,
the foxes have holes, but the Son of man hath not where to lay his
head; "and then sat down, leaving those who heard him to enlarge and
apply the text to suit themselves.

There was nothing more said that day.

And so my mind wandered on from one thing to another, until at length my attention was arrested by
a friend who rose and took off his hat (members of the society always sit with their hats on), and
gave us a short and touching discourse. I have heard some of the most telling and heart-searching
addresses at Quaker meetings. On this occasion there was no attempt-- there could be none from
a plain people like this-- to tickle the ear with well-turned periods
or rhetorical display.

After the meeting was over, I walked out into the graveyard; my father and mother and two sisters
lie there together, and several members of my father's family.

There is a peculiarity about a Quaker burying-ground that will arrest
the attention of any visitor. Other denominations are wont to mark the
last resting place of loved ones by costly stones and inscriptions;
but here the majority of the graves are marked with a plain board,
and many of them have only the initials of the deceased, and the rank
grass interlocks its spines above the humble mounds.

I remember my father having some difficulty to get consent to place
a plain marble slab at the head of his father and mother's grave.
But were those who slumbered beneath forgotten? Far otherwise. The
husband here contemplated the lowly dwelling place of the former
minister to his delight.

The lover recognised the place where she whose presence was all-inspiring reposed, and each
knew where were interred those who had been lights to their world
of love, and on which grave to shed the drop born of affection and
sorrow.

Although the pomp, the state, and the pageantry of love were her ransom,
yet hither, in moments when surrounding objects were forgotten, had
retired the afflicted, and poured forth the watery tribute that bedews
the cheek of those that mourn" in spirit and in truth.

"Hither came those whose spirits had been bowed down beneath the
burden of distress, and indulged in the melancholy occupation of
silent grief, from which no man ever went forth without benefit. I thought
of Falconer's lines:--" Full oft shall memory from oblivion's veil
Relieve your scenes, and sigh with grief sincere? "After lingering
for some time near the resting place of the dear ones of my own family,
I turned away and threaded my way thoughtfully back.

During another visit to the neighbourhood of my birth, after having
tea with the Rev. H---, Rector of----, I took a stroll through the
graveyard that nearly surrounds the old church, and spent some time
in reading the inscriptions on the headstones.

There were numbers that were new and strange, but the most of them bore
names that were familiar. Time, of course, had left his mark, and in
some cases the lettering was almost gone. Many of those silent sleepers
I remembered well, and had followed their remains to the grave, and
had heard the old Rector pronounce the last sad rite:" Earth to earth,
ashes to ashes, dust to dust, "long years ago.

As I passed on from grave to grave of former friends and neighbours,"
Each in his narrow cell forever laid, "many curious and pleasing
collections were brought to mind.

I came at last to the large vault of the first Rector, who was among the first in the Province.
I recollected well the building of this receptacle for the dead,
and how his family, one after another, were placed in it; and then
the summons came to him, and he was laid there.

A few years later, his wife, the last survivor of the family, was put there too, and the large slabs
were shut down for the last time, closing the final chapter of this family history, and-- as
does not often happen in this world-- they were taking their last
sleep undivided.

But Time, the great destroyer, had been at work during the years that had fled, and I was
sorry to find that the slabs that covered the upper part of the
vault, and which bore the inscriptions, were broken, and that the
walls were falling in. There were no friends left to interest themselves
in repairing the crumbling structure, and in a few years more the
probabilities are that every vestige of the last resting-place of
this united couple will be gone.

It is not a pleasing thought, and yet it is true, that however much
we may be loved, and however many friends may follow us with tears
to the grave, in a few short years they will be gone, and no one left
to care for us, or perhaps know that we ever lived.

I have stood of an evening in the grand cemetery of Pere la Chaise, Paris and watched the people
trooping in with their wreaths of immortelles to be placed on the tombs of departed friends, and
others with cans of water and flowers to plant around the graves. Here and there could be seen where
some loved one had been sprinkling the delicate flowers, or remained to water them with their tears.
This respect paid to the memory of departed ones is pleasant, and
yet, alas, how very few, after two or three generations are remembered.
The name that meets the eye on one stone after another might as well
be a blank for all we know of them.

Anyone who has visited the old churchyards or ruined abbeys in England must have felt this, as his
gaze has rested on time-worn tablets from which every mark had long
since been obliterated," By time subdued (what will not time subdue)!

"Turning away from the vault, and passing down the yard, I came to
a grave the headstone of which had fallen, and was broken.

I turned the two pieces over, and read:" To the memory of Eliza----.
"And is this, thought I, the end of the only record of the dear friend
of my boyhood; the merry, happy girl whom every one loved?

No one left after a score of years to care for her grave? So it is. The
years sweep on."

Friend after friend departs, "still on, and all recollection of us is lost; on still, and the very
stones that were raised as a memorial disappear, and the place that knew us once knows us no more
forever. I turned away, sad and thoughtful; but after a little my mind wandered back again
to the sunny hours of youth, and I lived them over. Eliza had been in our family for several years,
and was one of the most cheerful, kind-hearted girls one could wish
to see.

She had a fine voice, and it seemed as natural for her to sing as a bird. This, with her happy
disposition, made her the light and life of the house. She was like
the little burn that went dancing so lightly over the pebbles in
the meadow-- bright, sparkling, joyous, delighting in pranks and fun
as much as a kitten."

True mirth resides not in the smiling skin-- The sweeted solace is
to act no sin.

"-- HERRICK.
I do not think Eliza ever intentionally acted a sin.

On one occasion, however, this excess
of spirit led her perhaps beyond the bounds of maidenly propriety;
but it was done without consideration, and when it was over caused
her a good deal of pain.

The mischievous little adventure referred to shall be mentioned presently.
We had some neighbours who believed in ghosts; not an uncommon thing
in those days.

Eliza, with myself, had frequently heard from these people descriptions
of remarkable sights they had seen, and dreadful noises they had heard
at one time and another.

She conceived the idea of making an addition to their experiences
in this way, and as an experiment made a trial on me. I had been away
one afternoon, and returned about nine o'clock. It was quite dark.
In the meantime she had quietly made her preparations, and was on
the look out for me.

When my horse's feet were heard cantering up the road, she placed herself that I could not fail
to see her. On I came, and, dashing up to the gate, dismounted;
and there before me on the top of the stone wall was something, the height
of a human figure draped in white, moving slowly and noiselessly
towards me.

I was startled at first, but a second thought satisfied me what was up, and that my supernatural
visitor was quite harmless. I passed through the gate, but my pet mare
did not seem inclined to follow, until I spoke to her, and then she
bounded through with a snort.

After putting her in the field, and returning, I found the ghost had
vanished. But I was quite sure I had not done with it yet; and as
I drew near the house I was in momentary expectation that it would come
out upon me somewhere.

I kept a sharp look-out, but saw nothing, and had reached the porch door to go in, when, lo, there
stood the spectre barring my way! I paused and glanced at its appearance
as well as I could, and I must confess if I had been at all superstitious,
or had come on such an object in a strange place, I think I should
have been somewhat shaken.

However, I knew my spectre, boldly took hold of it, and found I had something
tangible in my grip.

After a brief and silent struggle, I thrust open the door, and brought
my victim into the room.

My mother and sisters, who knew nothing of what had been going on, were
greatly alarmed to see me dragging into the house a white object,
and, womanlike, began to scream; but the mystery was soon revealed.

She had made up some thick paste, with which she had covered her face,
and had really got up quite a sepulchral expression, to which the darkness
gave effect; and being enveloped in a white sheet, made, we thought,
a capital ghost.

This did not satisfy
her, and was only a preliminary to her appearance on the first suitable
occasion to our neighbours.

It was not long before they encountered the ghost on their way home
after dark, and were so badly frightened that in the end I think
Eliza was worse frightened than they.

Eliza never had any confidants in these little affairs, and they
were over before any one in the house knew of it.

This was the end, so far as she was concerned, of this kind of amusement.
 Or she may have got tired of
waiting. I told her six o'clock."

On the whole Olive Two was relieved that Mimi was invisible.

"It wouldn't really matter if she did split on us, would it?" said the bride.

"Not a bit," the bridegroom agreed. Now that they had safely left the house behind them, they
were both very valiant. It was as if they were both saying: "Who cares?" The bridegroom's mood
was entirely different from his sombre apprehensiveness of the previous evening. And the early
sunshine on the dew-drops was magnificent.

But a couple of hundred yards further on, at a bend of the road, they saw a little girl shading
her eyes with her hand and gazing towards the sun. She wore a short blue serge frock, and she
had long restless legs, and the word Formidable was on her forehead, and her eyes were all
screwed up in the strong sunshine. And in her hand were flowers.

"There she is, after all!" said Edward, quickly.

Olive Two nodded. Olive Two also blushed, for Mimi was the first person acquainted with her
to see her after her marriage. She blushed because she was now a married woman.

Mimi, who with much prudence had managed so that the meeting should not occur exactly in front
of the house, came towards the carriage. The pony was walking up a slope. She bounded forward
with her childish grace and with the awkwardness of her long legs, and her hair loose in the
breeze, and she laughed nervously.

"Good morning, good morning," she cried. "Shall I jump on the step? Then the horse won't have
to stop."

And she jumped lightly on to the step and giggled, still nervously, looking first at the bridegroom
and then at the bride. The bridegroom held her securely by the shoulder.

"Well, Mimi," said Olive Two, whose shyness vanished in an instant before the shyness of the
child. "This is nice of you."

The two women kissed. But Mimi did not offer her cheek to the bridegroom. He and she simply
shook hands as well as they could with a due regard for Mimi's firmness on the step.

"And who woke you up, eh?" Edward Coe demanded.

"Nobody," said Mimi; "I got up by myself, and," turning to Olive Two, "I've made this bouquet
for you, auntie. There aren't any flowers in the fields. But I got the chrysanthemum out of
the greenhouse, and put some bits of ferns and things round it. You must excuse it being tied
up with darning wool."

She offered the bouquet diffidently, and Olive Two accepted it with a warm smile.

"Well," said Mimi, "I don't think I'd better go any further, had I?"

There was another kiss and hand-shaking, and the next moment Mimi was standing in the road
and waving a little crumpled handkerchief to the receding victoria, and the bride and bridegroom
were cricking their necks to respond. She waved until the carriage was out of sight, and then
she stood moveless, a blue and white spot on the green landscape, with the morning sun and
the sea behind her. 

He lifted a hand, found the switch, and turned the light on.

And as it flooded the room, he pulled himself up to a tense rigidity. There, sitting fully dressed
in an easy chair, against which his head was thrown back, was his
cousin-- unmistakably dead.

CHAPTER II THE DEAD MAN For a full minute Marshall Allerdyke stood
fixed-- staring at the set features before him.

Then, with a quick catching of his breath, he made one step to his
cousin's side and laid his hand on the unyielding shoulder.

The affectionate, familiar terms in which they had always addressed each other sprang involuntarily
to his lips. "Why, James, my lad!" he exclaimed. "James, lad! James!" Even as he spoke, he knew
that James would never hear word or sound again in this world. It needed no more than one glance at
the rigid features, one touch of the already fixed and statue-like
body, to know that James Allerdyke was not only dead, but had been
dead some time.

And, with a shuddering sigh, Marshall Allerdyke drew himself up and
looked round at his surroundings.

Nothing could have been more peaceful than that quiet hotel bedroom; nothing more orderly than
its arrangements. Allerdyke had always known his cousin for a man of unusually tidy and methodical habits;
the evidence of that orderliness was there, where he had pitched his camp for presumably a single night.
His toilet articles were spread out on the dressing-table; his pyjamas
were laid across his pillow; his open suit-case lay on a stand at
the foot of the bed; by the bedside lay his slippers.

An overcoat hung from one peg of the door; a dressing-gown from another; on a chair in a corner
lay, neatly folded, a couple of travelling rugs. All these little details Allerdyke's sharp eyes took
in at a glance; he turned from them to the things nearer the dead man. James Allerdyke sat in a
big easy chair, placed at the side of a round table set towards a corner of the room. He was fully dressed
in a grey tweed suit, but he had taken off one boot-- the left-- and it lay at his feet on the
hearthrug.

He himself was thrown back against the high-padded hood of the chair; there
was a little frown on his set features, a tiny puckering of the brows
above his closed eyes.

His hands were lying at his sides, unclasped, the fingers slightly stretched, the thumbs slightly
turned inward; everything looked as if, in the very act of taking
off his boots, some sudden spasm of pain had seized him, and he had
sat up, leaned back, and died, as swiftly as the seizure had come.

There was a slight blueness under the lower rims of the eyes, a corresponding
tint on the clean-shaven upper lip, but neither that nor the pallor
which had long since settled on the rigid features had given anything
of ghastliness to the face.

The dead man lay back in his chair in such an easy posture that but for his utter quietness, his
intense immobility, he might have well been taken for one who was hard and fast asleep. The
sound of the night-porter's returning footsteps sent Allerdyke out into the corridor. Unconsciously
he shook his head and raised a hand-- as if to warn the man against
noise.

"Sh!" he said, still acting and speaking mechanically. "Here's-- I knew something was wrong. The
fact is, my cousin's dead!" In his surprise the night-porter dropped the key which he had been
to fetch. When he straightened himself from picking it up, his ruddy face had paled. "Dead!" he exclaimed
in a whisper.

"Him! Why, he looked the picture of health last night. I noticed that of him,
anyway!" "He's dead now," said Allerdyke. "He's lying there dead. Come
in!" The door along the corridor from which the man of the shock head
and great beard had looked out, opened again, and the big head was
protruded.

Its owner, seeing the two standing there, came out. "Anything wrong?"
he asked, advancing towards them in his pyjamas. "If there's any illness,
I'm a medical man. Can I be of use?"

Allerdyke turned sharply, looking the stranger well over. He was not sure whether the man was an Englishman
or a foreigner; he fancied that he detected a slightly foreign accent.

The tone was well-meaning, and even kindly. "I'm obliged to you," replied Allerdyke, in his characteristically
blunt fashion.

"I'm afraid nobody can be of use. The truth is, I came to join my
cousin here, and I find him dead.

Seems to me he's been dead some time. As you're a doctor, you can
tell, of course.

Perhaps you'll come in?" He led the way back into the bedroom, the
other two following closely behind him.

At sight of the dead man the bearded stranger uttered a sharp exclamation.

"Ah!" he said. "Mr. Allerdyke!" "You knew him, then?" demanded Marshall.

"You've met him?"

The other, who had stooped over the body, bestowing a light touch on face and hand, looked
up and nodded. "I came over with him from Christiania," he answered. "I met him there-- at a
hotel.

I had several conversations with him. In fact, I warned him." "Warned him? Of what!" asked Allerdyke.
"Over-exertion," replied the doctor quietly.

"I saw symptoms of heart-strain.

That was why I talked with him. I gathered from what he told me that he was a man who lived a very strenuous
life, and I warned him against doing too much. He was not fitted
for it."

"Good Lord!" exclaimed Allerdyke, with obvious impatience.

"Why, I always considered him as one of the fittest men I ever knew!" "Perhaps you did," said
the doctor. "Laymen, sir, do not see what a trained eye sees. The proof in his case is-- there!"
He pointed to the dead man, at whom the night-porter was staring with astonished eyes. Allerdyke
stared, too, or seemed to stare.

In reality, he was gazing into space, wondering about what had just been
said.

"Then you think he died a natural death?" he asked, suddenly turning
on his companion.

"You don't think there's-- anything wrong?"

The doctor shook his head calmly.

"I think he died of precisely what I should have expected him to
die of," he answered.

"Heart failure. It came upon him quite suddenly. You see, he was
in the act of taking off his boots.

He is a little fleshy-- stout.

The exertion of bending over and down-- that was too much. He felt
a sharp spasm-- he sat back-- he died, there and then."

"There
and then!" repeated Allerdyke mechanically.

"Well-- what's to be done!" he went on. "What is done in these cases-- I suppose you know?"
"There will have to be an inquest later on," answered the doctor. "I can give evidence for you,
if you like-- I am staying in Hull for a few days-- for I can certainly
testify to what I had observed.

But that comes later-- at present you had better acquaint the manager
of the hotel, and I should suggest sending for a local medical man--
there are some eminent men of my profession in this town.

And-- the body should be laid out.

I'll go and dress, and then do what I can for you."

"Much obliged," responded Allerdyke.

"Very kind of you. What name, sir?" "My name is Lydenberg," replied
the stranger.

"I will give you my card presently. I have the honour of addressing--?"

Allerdyke pulled out his own card-case. "My name's Marshall Allerdyke," he answered. "I'm his cousin,"
he went on, with another glance at the still figure.

"And, my conscience, I never thought to find him like this! I never heard of any weakness on his
part-- I always thought him a particularly strong man."

"You will send for another medical man?" asked Dr. Lydenberg.

"It will be more satisfactory to you." "Yes, I'll see to that," replied
Allerdyke.

He turned to look at the night-porter, who was still hanging about
as if fascinated.

"Look here!" he said. "We don't want any fuss. Just rouse the manager quietly, and ask him to come
here.

And find that chauffeur of mine, and tell him I want him.

Now, then, what about a doctor? Do you know a real, first-class one?"

"There's several within ten minutes, sir," answered the night-porter.

"There's Dr. Orwin, in Coltman Street-- he's generally fetched here.

I can get a man to go for him at once."

"Do!" commanded Allerdyke. "But send me my driver first-- I want him.

Tell him what's happened." He waited, standing and staring at his dead
cousin until Gaffney came hurrying along the corridor.

Allerdyke beckoned him into the room and closed the door. "Gaffney," he said. "You see how things
are? Mr. James is dead-- I found him sitting there, dead. He's been dead some time-- hours.
There's a doctor, a foreigner, I think, across the passage there,
who says it's been heart failure.

I've sent for another doctor.

Now in the meantime, I want to see what my cousin's got on him, and
I want you to help me.

We'll take everything off him in the way of valuables, papers, and
so on, and put'em in that small hand-bag of his."

Master and man went methodically to work; and an observer of an unduly
sentimental shade of mind might have said that there was something
almost callous about their measured, business-like proceedings.

But Marshall Allerdyke was a man of eminently thorough and practical habits, and he was doing
what he did with an idea and a purpose. His cousin might have died from sudden heart failure;
again, he might not, there might have been foul play; there might
have been one of many reasons for his unexpected death-- anyway,
in Allerdyke's opinion it was necessary for him to know exactly what
James was carrying about his person when death took place.

There was a small hand-bag on the dressing-table; Allerdyke opened it and took out all its
contents.

They were few-- a muffler, a travelling-cap, a book or two, some foreign newspapers, a Russian word-book,
a flask, the various odds and ends, small unimportant things which
a voyager by sea and land picks up.

Allerdyke took all these out, and laying them aside on the table, directed Gaffney to take
everything from the dead man's pockets. And Gaffney, solemn of face
and tight of lip, set to his task in silence.

There was comparatively little to bring to light.

A watch and chain-- the small pocket articles which every man carries--
keys, a monocle eyeglass, a purse full of gold, loose silver, a note-case
containing a considerable sum in bank-notes, some English, some foreign,
letters and papers, a pocket diary-- these were all.

Allerdyke took each as Gaffney produced them, and placed each in the bag with no more than a
mere glance. "Everything there is, sir," whispered the chauffeur
at last.

"I've been through every pocket." Allerdyke found the key of the
bag, locked it, and set it aside on the mantelpiece.

Then
he went over to the suit-case lying on the bench at the foot of the
bed, closed and locked it, and dropped the bunch of keys in his pocket.

And just then Dr. Lydenberg came back, dressed, and on his heels came
the manager of the hotel, startled and anxious, and with him an elderly
professional-looking man whom he introduced as Dr. Orwin.

When James Allerdyke's dead body had been lifted on to the bed, and the two medical men had begun
a whispered conversation beside it, Allerdyke drew the hotel manager
aside to a corner of the room.

"Did you see anything of my cousin when he arrived last night?" he
asked. "Not when he arrived-- no," replied the manager.

"But later-- yes. I had some slight conversation with him after he had taken supper. It was nothing
much-- he merely wished to know if there was always a night-porter on duty. He said he expected
a friend, who might turn up at any hour of the night, and he wanted
to leave a card for him.

That would be you, I suppose, sir?" "Just so," replied Allerdyke. "Now,
how did he seem at that time? And what time was that?" "Ten o'clock,"
said the manager. "Seem? Well, sir, he seemed to be in the very best
of health and spirits!

I was astonished to hear that he was dead. I never saw a man look more
like living. He was--" The elderly doctor came away from the bed
approaching Allerdyke.

"After hearing what Dr. Lydenberg tells me, and examining the body-- a mere perfunctory examination
as yet, you know-- I have little doubt that this gentleman died of what
is commonly called heart failure," he said. "There will have to be
an inquest, of course, and it may be advisable to make a post-mortem
examination.

You are a relative?" "Cousin," replied Allerdyke. He hesitated a moment,
and then spoke bluntly.

"You don't think it's been a case of poisoning, do you?" he said. Dr. Orwin
pursed his lips and regarded his questioner narrowly. "Self-administered,
do you mean?" he asked. "Administered any way," answered Allerdyke.

"Self or otherwise." He squared his shoulders and spoke determinedly. "I don't understand
about this heart-failure notion," he went on. "I never heard him complain of his heart. He was a
strong, active man-- hearty and full of go.

I want to know-- everything." "There should certainly be an autopsy," murmured Dr. Orwin. He turned
and looked at his temporary colleague, who nodded as if in assent. Then he turned back to Allerdyke.
"If you'll leave us for a while, we will just make a further examination--
then we'll speak to you later."

Allerdyke signified his assent with a curt nod of the head. Accompanied
by the manager and Gaffney he left the room, and with him he carried
the small hand-bag in which he had placed the dead man's personal
effects.

CHAPTER III THE SHOE BUCKLE Once outside the death-chamber, Allerdyke
asked the manager to give him a bedroom with a sitting-room attached
to it, and to put Gaffney in another room close by-- he should be
obliged, he said, to stay at the hotel until the inquest was over
and arrangements had been made for his cousin's funeral.

The manager at once took him to a suite of three rooms at the end
of the corridor which they were then in.

Allerdyke took it at once, sent Gaffney down to bring up certain things
from the car, and detained the manager for a moment's conversation.

"I suppose you'd a fair lot of people come in last night from that
Christiania boat?" he asked. "Some fifteen or twenty," answered the
manager.

"Did you happen to see my cousin in conversation with any of them?" inquired Allerdyke. The manager
shrugged his shoulders. He was not definitely sure about that; he had a notion that he had seen
Mr. James Allerdyke talking with some of the Perisco passengers,
but the notion was vague.

"You know how it is," he went on. "People come in-- they stand about
talking in the hall-- groups, you know-- they go from one to another.
I think I saw him talking to that doctor who's in there now with
Dr. Orwin-- the man with the big beard-- and to a lady who came at
the same time.

There were several ladies in the party-- the passengers were all
about in the hall, and in the coffee-room, and so on.

There are a lot of other people in the house, too, of course."

"It's this way," said Allerdyke. "I'm not at all satisfied about what these doctors say, so far. They
may be right, of course-- probably are. Still I want to know all
I can, and, naturally, I'd like to know who the people were that
my cousin was last in company with.

You never know what may have happened-- there's often something that doesn't show at first."
"There was-- nothing missing in his room, I hope?" asked the manager
with professional anxiety.

"Nothing that I know of," answered Allerdyke.

"My man and I have searched him, and taken possession of everything-- all that he had on him
is in that bag, and I'm going to examine it now. No-- I don't think anything had been taken from
him, judging by what I've seen."

"You wouldn't like me to send for the police?" suggested the manager.

"Not at present," replied Allerdyke. "Not, at any rate, until these doctors say something more definite--
they'll know more presently, no doubt. Of course, you've a list of all the people who came in last
night?" "They would all register," answered the manager. "But then, you know, sir, many of
them will be going this morning-- most of them are only breaking
their journey.

You can look over the register whenever you like." "Later on," said
Allerdyke.

"In the meantime, I'll examine these things.

Send me up some coffee as soon as your people are stirring."

He unlocked the hand-bag when the manager had left him.

It seemed to his practical and methodical mind that his first duty was to make himself thoroughly
acquainted with the various personal effects which he and Gaffney had found on the dead man. Of
the valuables he took little notice; it was very evident, in his opinion, that if James Allerdyke's
death had been brought about by some sort of foul play-- a suspicion
which had instantly crossed his mind as soon as he discovered that
his cousin was dead-- the object of his destroyer had not been robbery.

James had always been accustomed to carrying a considerable sum of money on him; Gaffney's search
had brought a considerable sum to light. James also wore a very valuable watch and chain
and two fine diamond rings; there they all were. Not robbery-- no;
at least, not robbery of the ordinary sort.

But-- had there been robbery of another, a bigger, a subtle, and deep-designed sort? James
was a man of many affairs and schemes-- he might have had valuable securities, papers relating
to designs, papers containing secrets of great moment; he was interested,
for example, in several patents-- he might have had documents pertinent
to some affair of such importance that ill-disposed folk, eager to
seize them, might have murdered him in order to gain possession of
them.

There were many possibilities, and there was always-- to Allerdyke's
mind-- the improbability that James had died through sudden illness.

Now that Marshall Allerdyke's mind was clearing, getting free of
the first effects of the sudden shock of finding his cousin dead,
doubt and uneasiness as to the whole episode were rising strongly
within him.

He and James had been brought up together; they had never been apart from each other for more than a
few months at a time during thirty-five years, and he flattered himself that he knew James
as well as any man of James's acquaintance. He could not remember that his cousin had ever made any complaint
of illness or indisposition; he had certainly never had any serious sickness in his life. As
to heart trouble, Allerdyke knew that a few years previous to his death, James had taken out a life-policy
with a first-rate office, and had been passed as a first-class life:
he remembered, as he sat there thinking over these things, the self-satisfied
grin with which James had come and told him that the examining doctor
had declared him to be as sound as a bell.

It was true, of course, that disease might have set in after that--
still, it was only six weeks since he had seen James and James was
then looking in a fit, healthy, hearty state.

He had
gone off on one of his Russian journeys as full of life and spirits
as a man could be-- and had not the hotel manager just said that he
seemed full of health, full of go, at ten o'clock last night?

And yet, within a couple of hours or so-- according to what the medical
men thought from their hurried examination-- this active vigorous
man was dead-- swiftly and mysteriously dead.

Allerdyke felt-- felt intensely-- that there was something deeply strange in all this, and
yet it was beyond him, with his limited knowledge, to account for James's sudden death, except on
the hypothesis suggested by the two doctors.

All sorts of vague, half-formed thoughts were in his mind.

Was there any person who desired James's death? Had any one tracked
him to this place-- got rid of him by some subtle means?

Had-- "Pshaw!" he muttered, suddenly interrupting his train of thought,
and recognizing how shapeless and futile it all was. "It just comes
to this-- I'm asking myself if the poor lad was murdered!

And what have I to go on? Naught-- naught at all!" Nevertheless, there were papers before
him which had been taken from James's pocket; there was the little
journal or diary which he always carried, and in which, to Allerdyke's
knowledge, he always jotted down a brief note of each day's proceedings
wherever he went.

He could examine these, at any rate-- they might cast some light
on his cousin's recent doings.

He began with the diary, turning over its pages until he came to
the date on which James had left Bradford for St. Petersburg.

That was on March 30th.

He had travelled to the Russian capital overland-- by way of Berlin
and Vilna, at each of which places he had evidently broken his journey.

From St. Petersburg he had gone on to Moscow, where he had spent the better part of a week. All
his movements were clearly set out in the brief pencilled entries in the journal. From Moscow he
had returned to St. Petersburg; there he had stayed a fortnight;
thence he had journeyed to Revel, from Revel he had crossed the Baltic
to Stockholm; from Stockholm he had gone across country to Christiania.

And from Christiania he had sailed for Hull to meet his death in that
adjacent room where the doctors were now busied with his body.

Marshall Allerdyke, though he had no actual monetary connection with
them, had always possessed a fairly accurate knowledge of his cousin's
business affairs-- James was the sort of man who talked freely to
his intimates about his doings.

Therefore Allerdyke was able to make out from the journal what James had done during his stay
at St. Petersburg, in Moscow, in Revel, and in Stockholm, in all
of which places he had irons of one sort or another in the fire.

He recognized the names of various firms upon which James had called--
these names were as familiar to him as those of the big manufacturing
concerns in his own town.

James had been to see this man, this man had been to see James.

He had dined with such an one; such an one had dined with him. Ordinarily innocent entries, all these; there was
no subtle significance to be attached to any of them: they were just
the sort of entries which the busy commercial man, engaged in operations
of some magnitude, would make for his own convenience.

There was, in short, nothing in that tiny book-- a mere, waistcoat-pocket
sort of affair-- which Allerdyke was at a loss to understand, or which
excited any wonder or speculation in him: with one exception.

That exception was in three entries: brief, bald, mere lines, all made during James's second
stay-- the fortnight period-- in St. Petersburg. They were:-- April 18: Met Princess. April 20: Lunched
with Princess.

April 23: Princess dined with me. These entries puzzled Allerdyke. His cousin had been going over
to Russia at least twice a year for three years, but he had never
heard him mention that he had formed the acquaintance of any person
of princely rank.

Who was this Princess with whom James had evidently become on such friendly terms that they had lunched
and dined together? James had twice written to him during his absence-- he had both letters in his pocket
then, and one of them was dated from St. Petersburg on April 24th, but there was no mention of
any Princess in either. Seeking for an explanation, he came to the conclusion that James, who
had a slight weakness for the society of ladies connected with the
stage, had made the acquaintance of some actress or other, ballet-dancer,
singer, artiste, and had given her the nickname of Princess.

That was all there was to be got from the diary. It amounted to nothing.
There were, however, the loose papers. He began to examine these
methodically.

They were few in number-- James was the sort of man who never keeps
anything which can be destroyed: Allerdyke knew from experience that
he had a horror of accumulating what he called rubbish.

These papers, fastened together with a band of india-rubber, were all business documents, with one exception--
a letter from Allerdyke himself addressed to Stockholm, to wait James's
arrival. So I told Collins to turn back. Fuge,
our new butler, is of an extremely curious disposition, and I couldn't bear the idea of him
prying about and perhaps reading that letter before Cloud got it. And just as I was picking
up the letter to fasten it I heard Cloud in the next room. Oh! I never felt so queer in all
my life! The poor boy was quite unwell. I screwed up the letter and went to him. What else
could I do? And really he was so tired and white--well, it moved me! It moved me. And when
he spoke about going away I suddenly thought: 'Why not try to make a new start with him?' After
all ..."

There was a pause.

"What did you say in the letter?" Lady Bargrave demanded. "How did you put it?"

"I'll read it to you," said Gertrude, and she took the letter from her corsage and began to
read it. She got as far as "I can't stand this awful Five Towns district," and then she stopped.

"Well, go on," Lady Bargrave encouraged her.

"No," said Gertrude, and she put the letter in the fire. "The fact is," she said, going to
Lady Bargrave's chair, "it was too cruel. I hadn't realized.... I must have been very worked-up....
One does work oneself up.... Things seem a little different now...." She glanced at her companion.

"Why, Gertrude, you're crying, dearest!"

"What a chance it was!" murmured Gertrude, in her tears. "What a chance! Because, you know,
if he had once read it I would never have gone back on it. I'm that sort of woman. But as it
is, there's a sort of hope of a sort of happiness, isn't there?"

"Gertrude!" It was Sir Cloud's voice, gentle and tender, outside the door.

"Mercy on us!" exclaimed Lady Bargrave. "It's half-past one. Bargrave will have been asleep
long since."

Gertrude kissed her in silence, opened the door, and left her.

THE GLIMPSE[A]

I

When I was dying I had no fear. I was simply indifferent, partly, no doubt, through exhaustion
caused by my long illness. It was a warm evening in August. We ought to have been at Blackpool,
of course, but we were in my house in Trafalgar Road, and the tramcars between Hanley and Bursley
were shaking the house just as usual. Perhaps not quite as usual; for during my illness I had
noticed that a sort of tiredness, a soft, nice feeling, seems to come over everything at sunset
of a hot summer's day. This universal change affected even the tramcars, so that they rolled
up and down the hill more gently. Or it may have been merely my imagination. Through the open
windows I could see, dimly, the smoke of the Cauldon Bar Iron Works slowly crossing the sky
in front of the sunset. Margaret sat in my grandfather's oak chair by the gas-stove. There
was only Margaret, besides the servant, in the house; the nurse had been obliged to go back
to Pirehill Infirmary for the night. I don't know why. Moreover, it didn't matter.

[Footnote A: Some years ago the editor of Black and White commissioned me to write a story
for his Christmas Number. I wrote this story. He expressed a deep personal admiration for it,
but said positively that he would not dare to offer it to his readers. I withdrew the story,
and gave him instead a frolic tale about a dentist. (See page 136.) Afterwards, I was glad
that I had withdrawn the story, for I perceived that its theme could only be treated adequately
in a novel, I accordingly wrote the novel, which was duly published under the same title.--A.B.]

I began running my extraordinarily white fingers along the edge of the sheet. I was doing this
quite mechanically when I noticed a look of alarm in Margaret's face, and I vaguely remembered
that playing with the edge of the sheet was supposed to be a trick of the dying. So I stopped,
more for Margaret's sake than for anything else. I could not move my head much, in fact scarcely
at all; hence it was difficult for me to keep my eyes on objects that were not in my line of
vision as I lay straight on my pillows. Thus my eyes soon left Margaret's. I forgot her. I
thought about nothing. Then she came over to the bed, and looked at me, and I smiled at her,
very feebly. She smiled in return. She appeared to me to be exceedingly strong and healthy.
Six weeks before I had been the strong and healthy one--I was in my prime, forty, and had a
tremendous appetite for business--and I had always regarded her as fragile and delicate; and
now she could have crushed me without effort! I had an unreasonable, instinctive feeling of
shame at being so weak compared to her. I knew that I was leaving her badly off; we were both
good spenders, and all my spare profits had gone into the manufactory; but I did not trouble
about that. I was almost quite callous about that. I thought to myself, in a confused way:
"Anyhow, I shan't be here to see it, and she'll worry through somehow!" Nor did I object to
dying. It may be imagined that I resented death at so early an age, and being cut off in my
career, and prevented from getting the full benefit of the new china-firing oven that I had
patented. Not at all! It may be imagined that I was preoccupied with a future life, and thinking
that possibly we had given up going to chapel without sufficient reason. No! I just lay there,
submitting like a person without will or desires to the nursing of my wife, which was all of
it accurately timed by the clock.

I just lay there and watched the gradual changing of the sky, and, faintly, heard clocks striking
and the quiet swish of my wife's dress. Once my ear would have caught the ticking of our black
marble clock on the mantelpiece; but not now--it was lost to me. I watched the gradual changing
of the sky, until the blue of the sky had darkened so that the blackness of the smoke was merged
in it. But to the left there appeared a faint reddish glare, which showed where the furnaces
were; this glare had been invisible in daylight. I seem to be surrounded with-- God knows what
hellish mysteries! Allerdyke, is there a regular devil's conspiracy,
or-- what is there?

"Allerdyke made a show of looking at the telegram again. In reality, he was considering matters.
Should he tell Fullaway what he knew? He was more than a little tempted to do so. But his natural
sense of caution and reserve stopped the words before they reached his tongue, and he took
another tack."

You said just now, in talking to Delkin, that you'd the greatest confidence in this Mrs. Marlow,
and had the best references with her, Fullaway, "he remarked."

What references?

"" Good business references! "answered Fullaway excitedly." The best! Firms of high standing
in the City. Couldn't have had better. Go and ask any of them about her-- I'll lay my last dollar
they will say the same. Capital secretary-- clever woman-- thoroughly
trustworthy!

"" What do you know about her private life? "asked Allerdyke."

What the deuce has the woman's private life to do with me? "snapped Fullaway." I know nothing.
So long as she comes here at ten, stops till five, and does her duty--
hang her private life!

""
Do you know where she lives? "asked Allerdyke imperturbably." But
of course you do.

"" Then I don't! "retorted Fullaway." Somewhere up town, I believe-- West End somewhere. I don't
know. I've nothing to do with her private affairs. I never have had anything to do with the
private affairs of any employee of mine.

"" She makes her private affairs have something to do with you though, "said Allerdyke, tapping
the telegram significantly."

But, in my opinion, that wire's nothing but an excuse.

What're you going to do?

"" Oh, I don't know! "exclaimed Fullaway." I'm about sick of the
whole thing.

"Allerdyke pulled out his watch."

I must go, "he said." I've a business appointment. I'll see you later.

"Fullaway made no reply, and Allerdyke left him, went downstairs and sought Gaffney, whom, having found,
he led outside to the street."

How soon can you lay hands on that brother of yours? "he asked."

Twenty minutes-- in a cab, sir, "replied Gaffney."

Get a cab, then, find him, and drive, both of you, to the warehouse, "commanded Allerdyke." You'll
find me there.

"He himself got a cab, too, and went off to Gresham Street, more puzzled and doubtful than ever.
He closeted himself with Ambler Appleyard and told him all the details of the eventful morning,
and the manager listened in silence, taking everything in and making his own mental notes. And
with his usual acuteness of perception he quickly separated the important from the momentarily
unimportant."

You don't want to bother your head about what Mr. Delkin says just
now, Mr. Allerdyke, "he said, when Allerdyke had brought this story
to an end."

Never mind his theories-- there may be a lot in'em, and there mayn't
be any more than his personal opinion in'em.

Never mind, too, what Chilverton wants with Van Koon.

Nor if there's any connection between Van Koon and Miss Slade, or Mrs. Marlow. The thing to
do is to find-- her!

"" You think she's hooked it? "said Allerdyke."

I should say that something said by some of you at that talk this morning in Fullaway's room
has startled her into action, "answered Appleyard." Now let's get at facts. You say she sent that
wire from the East Strand post Office within ten minutes of your leaving her? Very well-- I should
say she was on her way to Arundel Street to see Rayner, alias Ramsay. I wish we'd had a constant
watch kept on him. But we'll soon repair that if you've sent for
young Gaffney.

"The two Gaffneys arrived at that moment and Appleyard, after some further talk, assigned them their
duties.

Gaffney, the chauffeur, was to go at once and get himself a room
at an inn in close proximity to the Pompadour Hotel, so that he would
be at Appleyard's disposal at any hour of the coming evening and
night.

Albert Gaffney, the clerk, was to devote himself to watching Rayner. He was to follow Rayner
wherever Rayner went from the time of his leaving Clytemnestra House that afternoon-- even if
Rayner should leave town by motor or by train he was to follow. For, as Appleyard sagely observed,
it was not likely that Mrs. Marlow, alias Miss Slade, would return to the Pompadour Hotel that
night if her fears had been aroused by what had taken place that morning, and it was a reasonable
presumption that if she and Rayner were in league she would have communicated with him on leaving
Fullaway's office, and that they would meet again somewhere before
the day was over."

The only thing now, "said Appleyard, when the two Gaffneys had been presented with funds sufficient
to carry each through all possible immediate emergencies," is to arrange for a meeting to-night.
There are two matters we want to be certain about. First, if Albert Gaffney witnesses any meeting
between Rayner and Miss Slade, and, in that case, if he can tell us where they go and what
they do. Second, if they both return, or either of them returns to the Pompadour to-night.
So it had better be near the Pompadour-- somewhere in that district, anyhow. Can you suggest
any place? "he continued, turning to the chauffeur."

You know that district well, don't you?

"" Tell you the very spot, sir, "answered Gaffney promptly." Lancaster Gate itself, sir. Close
by there, convenient pub, sir-- stands back a bit from the road. Bar-parlour, sir-- quiet corners.
What time, sir?

"Appleyard fixed half-past eleven. By that time, he said, he should know if Mr. Rayner and Miss
Slade had returned to the Pompadour; by that time, too, Albert Gaffney would be in a position
to report his own doings and progress. And so the two Gaffneys went off on their respective
missions, and Allerdyke looked at his manager and made a grimace."

It's like a lot of blind men seeking for something they couldn't see if it was shoved under
their very noses, Ambler! "he said cynically." Is it any good?

"" Maybe, "replied Appleyard."

That Albert Gaffney's a smart chap-- he'll not lose sight of Rayner
once he begins to track him.

And I'm certain as certain can be that if Miss Slade's in a hole it's Rayner she'll turn to.
Well-- we can only wait now.

What're you going to do, Mr. Allerdyke?

"" Let's have a bit of a relief, "answered, Allerdyke suddenly."

Let's dine together somewhere and go to a theatre or something until it's time to keep this
appointment. And not a word more of the whole thing till then!

"" You forget that I've got to look in at the Pompadour last thing
to see if those two are there as usual, "remarked Appleyard."

But that'll only take a few minutes-- I can call there on our way
to the rendezvous.

All right-- no more of it until half-past eleven, then.

"Albert Gaffney was already in a quiet corner of the bar-parlour of the appointed meeting-place
when the other three arrived there. Appleyard had already ascertained that neither Rayner nor Miss
Slade had returned to the Pompadour; Gaffney, the chauffeur, who
had been keeping an eye on the exterior of that establishment, had
nothing to tell.

And Albert's face was somewhat dismal, and his eye inclined to something like an aggrieved surliness,
as he joined the new-comers and answered their first question."

It's not my fault, gentlemen, "he whispered, bending towards the others over the little table at
which they were all seated." But the truth is-- I've been baulked! At the last moment as you
may term it. Just when things were getting really interesting!

"" Have you seen-- anything? "asked Appleyard."

I'll give you it in proper order, sir, "replied Albert Gaffney."

I've seen both of'em-- followed'em, until this confounded accident happened.
This is the story of it.

I kept watch there, outside C. House-- you know where I mean-- till near on to six o'clock. Then
he came out. But he didn't get into his motor, though it was waiting
for him.

He sent it away. Then he walked to the Temple Station, and I heard him book for Cannon Street. So
did I, and followed him.

He got out at Cannon Street and went up into the main line station and to the bookstall. There
he met her-- she was waiting. They talked a bit, walking about; then they went into the hotel. I had
an idea that perhaps they were going to dine there, so as I was togged up for any eventualities,
I followed'em in. They did dine there-- so did I, keeping an eye on'em. They sat some time over
and after their dinner, as if they were waiting for something or somebody. At last a man-- better-class
commercial traveller-looking sort of man-- came in and went up to them. He sat down and had
a glass of wine, and they all three talked-- very confidential talk, you could see. At last they
all left and went down to the yard outside the station and got into
a taxi-cab-- all three.

I got another, gave the driver a quiet hint as to what I was after,
and told him to keep the other cab in view.

So he did-- for a time. They went first to a little restaurant near Liverpool Street Station-- she
and the commercial-looking chap got out and went in; R. stopped in
the cab.

The other two came back after a bit with another man-- similar sort-- and all three joined
R. Then they went off towards Aldgate way-- and we were keeping nicely behind'em when all of a sudden
a blooming'bus came to grief right between us and them, and blocked the traffic! And though
I nearly broke my neck in trying to get through and spot them, it was no use. They'd clean disappeared.
But!-- I've got the number of the cab they took from Cannon Street.

"Appleyard nodded approval."

Good! "he said." That's something, Gaffney-- a good deal. We can
work on from that.

"" Well? "he continued, turning to Allerdyke." I think there's nothing else we can do to-night?
We'd better meet, all of us, at Gresham Street, at, say, ten to-morrow morning; then I shall
be able to say if they return to the Pompadour to-night. It's my impression they won't-- but we shall
see.

"Allerdyke presently drove him to his hotel, wondering all the way what these last doings might
really mean. They were surprising enough, but there was another surprise awaiting him. As he walked
into the Waldorf the hall-porter stopped him."

There's a gentleman for you, sir, in the waiting-room, "he said." Been waiting a good hour. Name
of Chettle.

"CHAPTER XXIX THE PARCEL FROM HULL Chettle sat alone in the waiting-room,
a monument of patient resignation to his fate.

His hands were bunched on the head of his walking-stick, his chin
propped on his hands; his eyes were bent on a certain spot on the
carpet with a fixed stare.

And when Allerdyke entered he sprang up as if roused from a fitful slumber." I should ha'been asleep
in another minute, Mr. Allerdyke, "he said apologetically." Been waiting over an hour, sir--
and I'm dog-tired. I've been at it, hard at it! every minute since I left you. And-- I had to
come. I've news. "" Come up, "said Allerdyke."

I've news, too-- it's been naught else but news all day. You haven't
seen Fullaway while you've been waiting?

"" Seen nobody but the hotel folks, "answered the detective. He followed Allerdyke up to his
private sitting-room and sighed wearily as he dropped into a chair."

I'm dog-tired, "he repeated." Fair weary! "" Have a drink, "said Allerdyke, setting out his decanter
and a syphon." Take a stiff'un-- I'll have one myself.

I'm tired, too. I wouldn't like this game to be on long, Chettle-- it's too exhausting. But, by the
Lord Harry!-- I believe it's coming to an end at last! "The detective, who had gladly helped himself
to Allerdyke's whisky, took a long pull at his glass and sighed with
relief."

I believe so myself, Mr. Allerdyke, "he said." I do, indeed!-- things are clearing, sir, though
Heaven knows they're thick enough still. You say you've fresh news! "Allerdyke lighted a cigar
and pushed the box to his guest." Your news first, "he said."

I daresay it's a bit out of the complete web-- let's see if we can fit it in. "" It's this,
"answered Chettle, pulling his chair nearer to the table at which
he and his host sat."

When I got back to Hull they told me at the police headquarters that
a young man had been in two or three times, while I was away, asking
if he could see the London detective who was down about the Station
Hotel affair.

They told him I'd gone up to town again, and tried to find out what he
wanted, but he wouldn't tell them anything-- said he'd either see
me or go up to London himself.

So then they let him know I was coming back, and told him he'd probably
find me there at noon to-day.

And at noon to-day he turns up at the police-station-- a young fellow
about twenty-five or so, who looked like what he was, a clerk.

A very cute, sharp chap he was, the sort that's naturally keen about his own interests-- name
of Martindale-- and before he'd say a word he wanted to see my credentials,
and made me swear to treat what he said as private, and then he pulled
out a copy of that reward bill of yours, and wanted to know a rare
lot about that, all of which amounted to wanting to find out what
chance he had of getting hold of some of the fifty thousand, if not
all.

And, "continued Chettle with a laugh," I'd a lot of talking and explaining and wheedling to do
before he'd tell anything. "" Had he aught to tell? "asked Allerdyke." So many of'em think
they have, and then they haven't. "" Oh, he'd something to tell!
"replied Chettle." Right enough, he'd a good deal to tell.

This-- he told me at last, as if every word he let out was worth a ransom, that he was a parcels
office clerk in the North Eastern Railway Station at Hull, and that since the 13th of May until the
day before yesterday he'd been away in the North of Scotland on his holidays-- been home to his
people, in fact-- he is a Scotsman, which, of course, accounts for his keenness about the money.
Now, then-- on the night of May 12th-- the night, as you know, Mr. Allerdyke, of your cousin's
supposed murder, but anyway, of his arrival at Hull-- this young man
Martindale was on duty in the parcels office till a very late hour.
About ten to a quarter past ten, as near as he could recollect, a gentleman
came into the parcels office, carrying a small, square parcel, done
up in brown paper and sealed in several places with black wax. He
wanted to know when the next express would be leaving for London,
and if he could send the parcel by it.

Martindale told him there would be an express leaving for Selby very shortly, and there would
be a connection there for a Great Northern express to King's Cross.

The gentleman then wanted to know what time his parcel would be likely
to be delivered in London if he sent it by that train.

Martindale
told him that as near as he could say it would be delivered by noon on the next morning, and added
that he could, by paying an extra fee, have it specially registered and delivered. The gentleman
at once acceded to this, handed the parcel over, paid for it, and left. And in a few minutes after
that, Martindale himself gave the parcel to the guard of the outgoing train. "Chettle paused
for a moment, and took a reflective pull at his glass." Now, then, "he
went on, after an evident recollecting of his facts," Martindale,
of course, never saw the gentleman again, and dismissed such a very
ordinary matter from his mind.

Early next morning he went off on his holiday-- where he went, right away up in Sutherland,
papers were few and far between. He only heard mere bits of news about all this affair. But
when he got back he turned up the Hull newspapers, and became convinced that the man who sent
that parcel was-- your cousin! "" Aye! "said Allerdyke, nodding his head." Aye! I expected
that. "" He was sure it was your cousin, "continued Chettle," from
the description of him in the papers, and from one or two photos of
him that had appeared, though, as you know, Mr. Allerdyke, those were
poor things. But to make sure, I showed him the photo which is inside
Lydenberg's watch-case.'That's the man!'he said at once.'I should
have known him again anywhere-- I'd a particularly good look at him.'Very
well-- that established who the sender of the parcel was. Now then,
the next thing was-- to whom was it sent. Well, this Martindale had
copied down the name and address from the station books, and he handed
me the slip of paper. Can you make any guess at it, Mr. Allerdyke?
"" Damn guess-work! "replied Allerdyke." Speak out! "Chettle leaned
nearer, with an instinctive glance at the door. He lowered his voice
to a whisper."

That parcel was addressed to Franklin
Fullaway, Esq., The Waldorf Hotel, Aldwych, London, "he said."

There! "Allerdyke slowly rose
from his seat, stared at his visitor, half-moved across the floor,
as if he had some instinctive notion of going somewhere-- and then
suddenly sat down again." Aye! "he said." Aye!-- but was it ever delivered?
"" I'm coming to that, "replied Chettle." That, of course, is the big
thing-- the prime consideration. I heard all this young fellow Martindale
had to tell-- nothing much more than that, except small details as to
what would be the likely progress of the parcel, and then I gave
him strict instructions to keep his own counsel until I saw him again--
after which I caught the afternoon train to town.

Martindale had told me
where the parcel would be delivered from, so as soon as I arrived
at King's Cross I went to the proper place.

I had to tell'em, of course,
who I was, and what I was after, and to produce my credentials before they
turned up their books and papers to trace the delivery of the parcel.
That, of course, wasn't a long or difficult matter, as I had the exact
date-- May 13th. They soon put the delivery sheet of that particular
morning before me. And there it all was-- "" And-- it was delivered
to and received by-- who? "broke in Allerdyke eagerly." Who, man?
"" Signed for by Mary Marlow for Franklin Fullaway, "answered Chettle
in the same low tones." Delivered-- here-- about half-past twelve. So--
there you are! That is-- if you know where we are! "Allerdyke, whose
cigar had gone out, relighted it with a trembling hand."

My God! "he said in a fierce,
concentrated voice as he flung the match away."

This is getting-- you're sure there was no
mistaking the signature? "he went on, interrupting himself."

No mistake about
it? "" It was a woman's writing, and an educated woman's writing, anyway,
"said Chettle." And plain enough.

But there was one thing that rather struck
me and that they couldn't explain, though they said I could have it explained
by inquiry of the clerk who had the books in charge on May 13th and
the boy who actually delivered the parcel-- neither of'em was about
this evening.

"" What?
"demanded Allerdyke." Why, this, "answered Chettle."

The parcel had evidently
been signed for twice. The line on which the signatures were placed had two initials
in pencil on it-- scribbled hurriedly. The initials were'F. F.'Over
that was the other in ink-- what I tell you: Mary Marlow for Frank
Fullaway. "Allerdyke let his mind go back to the events of May 13th."
You say the parcel was delivered here at twelve-thirty noon on May 13th?
"he said presently." Of course, Fullaway wasn't here then. He'd set off
to me at Hull two or three hours before that. He joined me at Hull
soon after two that day. On this occasion Mr Snaggs and the dissenting ministers were
for once in a way agreed. They all objected to a certain feature of the Fair. It was not the
roundabouts, so crude that even an infant of to-day would despise them. It was not the shooting-galleries,
nor the cocoanut shies. It was not the arrangements of the beersellers, which were formidably
Bacchic. It was not the boxing-booths, where adventurous youths could have teeth knocked out
and eyes smashed in free of charge. It was not the monstrosity-booths, where misshapen and
maimed creatures of both sexes were displayed all alive and nearly nude to anybody with a penny
to spare. And here again was the mention of a Princess-- presumably, nay, evidently, the Princess
to whom reference was made in the diary.

And there was mention, too, of goods-- probably valuable goods-- to be confided to James's care
for conveyance to England, to London, for sale to some prospective purchaser. If James had brought
them, where were they? So far as Allerdyke had ascertained, James had no luggage beyond his
big suitcase and the handbag which now stood on the table before his own eyes-- he was a man for
travelling light, James, and never encumbered himself with more than indispensable necessities.
Where, then-- A tap at the door of the sitting-room prefaced the
entry of the two medical men.

"We heard from the manager that you were in this room, Mr. Allerdyke,"
said Dr. Orwin.

"Well, we made a further examination of your relative, and we still incline to the opinion expressed
already. Now, if you approve it, I will arrange at once for communicating with the Coroner, removing
the body, and having an autopsy performed. As Dr. Lydenberg has business in the town which will keep him
here a few days, he will join me, and it will be more satisfactory
to you, no doubt, if another doctor is called-- I should advise the
professional police surgeon.

If you will leave it to me--" "I'll leave everything of that sort to you, doctor," said Allerdyke.
"I'm much obliged to both of you, gentlemen. You understand what I'm anxious about?-- I want
to be certain-- certain, mind you!-- of the cause of my cousin's
death.

Now you speak of removing him? Then I'll just go and take a look at him before that's done." He
presently locked up his rooms, leaving the hand-bag there, also locked, and went alone to the
room in which James lay dead. Most folks who knew Marshall Allerdyke considered him a hard,
unsentimental man, but there were tears in his eyes as he stooped
over his cousin's body and laid his hand on the cold forehead.

Once more he broke into familiar, muttered speech. "If there's been
aught wrong, lad," he said. "Aught foul or underhand, I'll right
thee!-- by God, I will!"

Then he stooped lower and kissed the dead man's cheek, and pressed the still
hands. It was with an effort that he turned away and regained his self-command--
and it was in that moment that his eyes, slightly blurred as they
were, caught sight of an object which lay half-concealed by a corner
of the hearth-rug-- a glittering, shining object, which threw back
the gleam of the still burning electric light.

He strode across the room and picked it up-- the gold buckle of a
woman's shoe, studded with real, if tiny, diamonds.

CHAPTER IV MR. FRANKLIN FULLAWAY Allerdyke carried his find away
to his own room and carefully examined it.

The buckle was of real gold; the stones set in it were real diamonds,
small though they were.

He deduced two ideas from these facts-- one, that the owner was a woman who loved pretty and expensive
things; the other, that she must have a certain natural carelessness
about her not to have noticed that the buckle was loose on her shoe.
But as he put the buckle safely away in his own travelling bag, he
began to speculate on matters of deeper import-- how did it come to
be lying there in James Allerdyke's room?

How long had it been lying there? Had its owner been into that room recently? Had she, in fact, been
in the room since James Allerdyke took possession of it on his arrival
at the hotel?

He realized the possibility of various answers to these questions.

The buckle might have been dropped by a former occupant of the room.

But was that likely? Would an object
sparkling with diamonds have escaped the eyes of even a careless
chambermaid?

Would it have escaped the keener eyes of James Allerdyke? Anyhow, that question could easily
be settled by finding out how long that particular room had been unoccupied before James was
put into it. A much more important question was-- had the owner of the buckle been in the room
between nine o'clock of the previous evening and five o'clock that morning? Out of that, again,
rose certain supplementary questions: What had she been doing there? And most important of all--
who was she? That might possibly be solved by an inspection of the hotel register, and after he had
drunk the coffee which was presently brought up to him, Allerdyke went down to the office to
set about that necessary, yet problematic, task.

As he reached the big hall on the ground floor of the hotel, the
manager came across to him, displaying a telegram. It was he who introduced hair-dyeing into Bursley. Hair-dyeing might have grown
popular in the town if one night, owing to some confusion with red ink, the Chairman of the
Bursley Burial Board had not emerged from Jock-at-a-Venture's with a vermilion top-knot and
been greeted on the pavement by his waiting wife with the bitter words: "Thou foo!"

A little later Jock-at-a-Venture abandoned barbering and took up music, for which he had always
shown a mighty gift. He was really musical and performed on both the piano and the cornet,
not merely with his hands and mouth, but with the whole of his agile expressive body. He made
a good living out of public-houses and tea-meetings, for none could play the piano like Jock,
were it hymns or were it jigs. His cornet was employed in a band at Moorthorne, the mining
village to the east of Bursley, and on his nocturnal journeys to and from Moorthorne with the
beloved instrument he had had many a set-to with the marauding colliers who made the road dangerous
for cowards. One result of this connection with Moorthorne was that a boxing club had been
formed in Bursley, with Jock as chief, for the upholding of Bursley's honour against visiting
Moorthorne colliers in Bursley's market-place.

Then came Jock's conversion to religion, a blazing affair, and his abandonment of public-houses.
As tea-meetings alone would not keep him, he had started again in life, for the fifth or sixth
time--as a herbalist now. There were a good many angularities about Christian character in those
days, and they frequently stood out very sharply. They were not friends or enemies by halves.
Their prejudices were deeply seated, and if assailed were likely to be resisted, and if pressed too
closely in a controversy, were more disposed to use the argumentum baculinum, as being more
effectual than the argumentum ad judicicium. But time gradually wore away many of those asperities,
and now few will deny that the position our Province holds to-day is to a considerable extent owing
to this large and influential body of Christians. They built the first house devoted to public
worship in the Province; through their zeal and energy, the people were stirred up to a sense of
their religious obligation; their activity infused life and action into other denominations. The
people generally throughout the country had the bread of life broken to them with regularity, so that
in the year of Grace 1830 a new order of things was inaugurated. But with all this, a vastly
different state of affairs existed then from that now prevailing. No one could accuse the preachers
of those days of mercenary motives, for they were poorly paid, and carried their worldly possessions
on their backs. Their labour was arduous and unremitting. They travelled great distances on
foot and on horseback, at all seasons and in all weathers, to fill appointments through the
bush-- fording rivers, and enduring hardships and privations that
seem hardly possible to be borne.

A circuit often embraced two or three districts. The places of worship were small and far apart,
and fitted up with rude pine benches, the men sitting on the one
side and the women on the other.

Often forty or fifty miles would have to be traversed from one appointment
to another, and when it was reached, whether at a neighbour's house,
a school-house, a barn or a meeting house, the people assembled to
hear the word, and then the preacher took his way to the next place
on his circuit.

Mr. Vanest says: "In summer we crossed ferries, and in winter we rode
much on ice.

Our appointment was thirty-four miles distant, without any stopping-place. Most of the way
was through the Indian's land-- otherwise called the Mohawk Woods. In summer I used to stop half-way
in the woods and turn my horse out where the Indians had had their fires. In winter I would
take some oats in my saddle-bags, and make a place in the snow to feed my horse. In many places
there were trees fallen across the path, which made it difficult to get around in deep snow.
I would ask the Indians why they did not cut out the trees.

One said,'Indian like deer; when he no cross under he jump over.'There
was seldom any travelling that way, which made it bad in deep snow.
At one time when the snow was deep, I went on the ice till I could
see clear water, so I thought it time to go ashore.

I got off my horse and led him, and the ice cracked at every step.
If I had broken through, there would have been nothing but death
for us both.

I got to the woods in deep snow, and travelled up the shore till I found a small house, when
I found the course of my path, keeping a good look-out for the marked trees. I at last found my appointment
about seven o'clock. If I had missed my path I do not know what would have become of me. At my stopping-place
the family had no bread or meal to make any of, till they borrowed some of a neighbour; so I got
my dinner and supper about eleven o'clock on Saturday night.

On Sabbath I preached. On Monday I rode about four miles, crossed the Bay (Quinte), and then rode
seventeen miles through the woods without seeing a house, preached
and met a class for a day's work."

Another writer says: "We had to go twenty miles without seeing a house, and were guided by marked
trees, there being no roads. At one time my colleague was lost in getting through the woods,
when the wolves began to howl around him, and the poor man felt much
alarmed; but he got through unhurt."

[Footnote: Dr. Carroll.] These incidents occurred some years before the date of which I speak, but
the same kind of adventures were happening still. It did not take long to get away from the three
or four concessions that stretched along the bay and lakes, and outside
of civilization.

I remember going with my father and mother, about 1835, on a visit
to an uncle who had settled in the bush [Footnote: This was in the
oldest settled part of the Province-- the Bay of Quinte.] just ten
miles away, and in that distance, we travelled a wood road for more
than five miles.

The snow was deep and the day cold. We came out upon the clearing of a few acres, and drove up to the
door of the small log house, the only one then to be seen. The tall trees which environed the
few acres carved out of the heart of the bush waved their naked branches
as if mocking at the attempt to put them away.

The stumps thrust their heads up through the snow on every hand, and wore their winter caps with
a jaunty look, as if they too did not intend to give up possession without a struggle. The horses
were put in the log stable, and after warming ourselves we had supper, and then gathered round the
cheerful fire.

When bed-time came, we ascended to our sleeping room by a ladder,
my father carrying me up in his arms.

We had not been long in bed when a pack of wolves gathered round the
place and began to howl, making through all the night a most dismal
and frightful noise.

Sleep was out of the question, and for many a night after that I was haunted by packs of howling
wolves. On our return the next day I expected every moment to see them come dashing down upon
us until we got clear of the woods. This neighbourhood is now one of the finest in the Province,
and for miles fine houses and spacious well-kept barns and outhouses are to be seen on every farm.
I have been unable to get at any correct data respecting the number of adherents of the various
denominations in the Province for the year 1830. The total number
of ministers did not reach 150, while they now exceed 2,500.

[Footnote: The number of ministers, as given in the Journals of
the House of Assembly for 1831, are 57 Methodist, 40 Baptist, 14
Presbyterian, and 32 Church of England.

For the last I am indebted to Dr. Scadding.] There were but three churches in Toronto, then called
York.

One of these was an Episcopalian Church, occupying the present site of St. James's Cathedral. It was
a plain wooden structure, 50 by 40, with its gables facing east and
west; the entrance being by a single door off Church Street.

[Footnote: Toronto of Old.] The others were a Presbyterian and a Methodist
church. The latter was built in 1818, and was a long, low building,
40 by 60.

In the gable end, facing King Street, were two doors, one for each sex,
the men occupying the right and the women the left side of the room.

It was warmed in winter by a rudely constructed sheet-iron stove. The usual mode of lighting it for
night services was by tallow candles placed in sconces along the walls, and in candlesticks in
the pulpit. I am sure I shall be safe in saying that there were
not 150 churches or chapels all told in the Province.

All of them were small, and many of them were of the most humble character.
There are probably as many clergymen and more than half as many churches
in Toronto now, as there were in all Upper Canada fifty years ago.

The difference does not consist in the number of the latter alone but in the size and character
of the structures. The beautiful and commodious churches, with their
lofty spires and richly arranged interiors, that meet the gaze on
every hand in Toronto, have not inappropriately given it the proud
title of "the city of churches," and there are several of them, any
one of which would comfortably seat the entire population of York
in the days of which I have spoken.

There were no organs, and I am not sure that there were any in America. Indeed, if there had been
the good people of those days would have objected to their use.
Those who remember the three early churches I have mentioned-- and
those who do not can readily picture them with their fittings and
seating capacity-- will recall the dim, lurid light cast on the audience
by the flickering candles.

Turn, now, for example, to the Metropolitan Church on an evening's
service.

Notice the long carpeted aisles, the rich upholstery, the comfortable
seats, the lofty ceilings, the spacious gallery and the vast congregation.

An unseen hand touches an electric battery, and in a moment hundreds of gas jets are aflame, and
the place is filled with a blaze of light.

Surely the contrast is almost incredible, and what we have said
on this point in regard to Toronto may be said of every city, town,
village or country place in the Province.

It will be proper to notice here that from the settlement of the country up to 1831, marriage could
only be legally solemnized by a minister of the Church of England,
or of the established Church of Scotland.

There was a provision which empowered a justice of the peace or a
commanding officer to perform the rite in cases where there was no
minister, or where the parties lived eighteen miles from a church.

In 1831, an Act was passed making it lawful for ministers of other denominations to solemnize
matrimony, and to confirm marriages previously contracted. This act of
tardy justice gave great satisfaction to the people. The day for
cheap books, periodicals and newspapers had not then arrived. There
were but few of any kind in the country, and those that were to be
found possessed few attractions for either old or young.

The arduous lives led by the people precluded the cultivation of a taste for reading. Persons
who toil early and late, week in and week out, have very little inclination for anything in
the way of literary recreation. When the night came, the weary body demanded
rest, and people sought their beds early. Consequently the few old
volumes piled away on a shelf remained there undisturbed.

Bacon says: "Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed,
and some to be chewed and digested;" and he might have added-- "others
still to be left alone."

At all events the last was the prevailing sentiment in those days. I
do not know that the fault was altogether with the books.

It is true that those generally to be seen were either doctrinal works, or what might be termed heavy
reading, requiring a good appetite and strong digestive powers to
get through with them.

They were the relics of a past age, survivors of obsolete controversies
that had found their way into the country in its infancy; and though the
age that delighted in such mental pabulum had passed away, these
literary pioneers held their ground because the time had not arrived
for the people to feel the necessity of cultivating the mind as well
as providing for the wants of the body.

Seneca says: "Leisure without books is the sepulchre of the living soul;"
but books without leisure are practically valueless, and hence it made
but little difference with our grandfathers what the few they possessed
contained.

[Footnote: From an inventory of my grandfather's personal effects I am enabled to give what would
have been considered a large collection of books in those days. As
I have said before, he was a Quaker, which will account for the character
of a number of the books; and by changing these to volumes in accord
with the religious tenets of the owner, the reader will get a very
good idea of the kind of literature to be found in the houses of intelligent
and well-to-do people:-- 1 large Bible, 3 Clarkson's works, 1 Buchan's
Domestic Medicine, 1 Elliot's Medical Pocket Book, 1 Lewis's Dispensatory,
1 Franklin's Sermons, 1 Stackhouse's History of the Bible, 2 Brown's
Union Gazetteer, 1 16th Report of the British and Foreign Bible Society,
1 History United States, 1 Elias Hicks's Sermons, 2 Newton's Letters,
1 Ricketson on Health, 1 Jessy Kerzey, 1 Memorials of a Deceased Friend,
1 Hervey's Meditations, 1 Reply to Hibard, 1 Job's Scot's Journal,
1 Barclay on Church Government, 1 M. Liver on Shakerism, 1 Works of
Dr. Franklin, 1 Journal of Richard Davis, 1 Lessons from Scripture,
1 Picket's Lessons, 1 Pownal, 1 Sequel to English Reader, Maps of
United States, State of New York, England, Ireland and Scotland, and
Holland Purchase.] Some years had to pass away before the need of
them began to be felt.

In a country, as we have already said, where intelligence commanded respect but did not give priority; where
the best accomplishment was to get on in the world; where the standard of education seldom rose higher
than to be able to read, write, and solve a simple sum in arithmetic,
the absence of entertaining and instructive books was not felt to
be a serious loss.

But with the rapidly increasing facilities for moving about, and the growth of trade and commerce,
the people were brought more frequently into contact with the intelligence and the progress of the world
outside. And with the increase of wealth came the desire to take a higher stand in the social scale.
The development of men's minds under the political and social changes of the day, and the advance
in culture and refinement which accompanies worldly prosperity, quickened the general intelligence
of the people, and created a demand for books to read. This demand has gone on increasing from
year to year, until we have reached a time when we may say with the
Ecclesiast: "Of making of books there is no end."

If there was an excuse for the absence of books in our Canadian homes half a century ago, and
if the slight draughts that were obtainable at the only fountains
of knowledge that then existed were not sufficient to create a thirst
for more, there is none now.

Even the wealth that was to a certain extent necessary to gratify
any desire to cultivate the mind is no longer required, for the one
can be obtained free, and a few cents will procure the works of some
of the best authors who have ever lived.

But little had been done up to 1830 to establish libraries, either
in town or village.

Indeed the limited number of these, and the pursuits of the people, which were almost exclusively
agricultural-- and that too in a new country where during half of the
year the toil of the field, and clearing away the bush the remaining
half, occupied their constant attention-- books were seldom thought
of.

Still, there was a mind here and there scattered through the settlements
which, like the "little leaven," continued to work on silently, until
a large portion of the "lump" had been leavened. The only public libraries
whereof I have any trace were at Kingston, Ernesttown and Hallowell.
The first two were in existence in 1811-13, and the last was established
somewhere about 1821.

In 1824, the Government voted a sum of L150 to be expended annually in the purchase of books
and tracts, designed to afford moral and religious instruction to the people.
These were to be equally distributed throughout all the Districts
of the Province.

It can readily be conceived that this small sum, however well intended,
when invested in books at the prices which obtained at that time, and distributed
over the Province, would be so limited as to be hardly worthy of
notice.

Eight years prior to this, a sum of L800 was granted to establish
a Parliamentary Library. From these small beginnings we have gone on
increasing until we have reached a point which warrants me, I think,
in saying that no other country with the same population is better
supplied with the best literature of the day than our own Province. Independent
of the libraries in the various colleges and other educational institutions,
Sunday schools and private libraries, there are in the Province 1,566
Free Public Libraries, with 298,743 volumes, valued at$ 178,282; and
the grand total of books distributed by the Educational Department
to Mechanics'Institutes, Sunday school libraries, and as prizes, is
1,398,140. [Footnote: The number of volumes in the principal libraries
are, as nearly as I can ascertain, as follows:-- Parliamentary Library,
Ottawa, 100,000; Parliamentary Library, Ontario, 17,000; Toronto University,
23,000; Trinity College, 5,000; Knox College, 10,000; Osgoode Hall, 20,000;
Normal School, 15,000; Canadian Institute, 3,800.] There are also upwards
of one hundred incorporated Mechanics'Institutes, with 130,000 volumes,
a net income of$ 59,928, and a membership of 10,785.

These, according to the last Report, received legislative grants to the amount of$ 22,885 for
the year 1879-- an appropriation that in itself creditably attests the financial and intellectual
progress of the Province. [Footnote: Report of the Minister of Education,
1879.] It is a very great pity that a systematic effort had not been
made years ago to collect interesting incidents connected with the
early settlement of the Province.

A vast amount of information that would be invaluable to the future compiler of the history of this
part of the Dominion has been irretrievably lost. The actors who were present at the birth
of the Province are gone, and many of the records have perished.

But even now, if the Government would interest itself, much valuable
material scattered through the country might be recovered.

The Americans have been always alive to this subject, and are constantly
gathering up all they can procure relating to the early days of their country.
More than that, they are securing early records and rare books on Canada
wherever they can find them.

Any one who has had occasion to hunt up information respecting this Province, even fifty years
ago, knows the difficulty, and even impossibility in some cases,
of procuring what one wants.

It is hardly credible that the important and enterprising capital city
of Toronto, with its numerous educational and professional institutions,
is without a free public library in keeping with its other advantages. [Footnote:
This want has since been supplied by an excellent Free Public Library.]
This is a serious want to the well-being of our intellectual and moral
nature.

The benefits conferred by free access to a large collection of standard
books is incalculable, and certainly if there is such a thing as retributive
justice, it is about time it showed its hand. The first printing office
in the Province was established by Louis Roy, in April, 1793, [Footnote:
Mr. Bourinot, in his Intellectual Development of Canada, says this
was in 1763, which is no doubt a typographical error.] at Newark (Niagara),
and from it was issued the Upper Canada Gazette, or American Oracle
[Footnote: Toronto of Old], a formidable name for a sheet 15 in. x 9.

It was an official organ and newspaper combined, and when a weekly
journal of this size could furnish the current news of the day, and
the Government notices as well, one looking at it by the light of
the present day cannot help thinking that publishing a paper was up-hill
work.

Other journals were started, and, after running a brief course, expired.
When one remembers the tedious means of communication in a country
almost without roads, and the difficulty of getting items of news, it does
not seem strange that those early adventures were short-lived. But as time
wore on, one after another succeeded in getting a foothold, and in
finding its way into the home of the settler.

They were invariably small, and printed on coarse paper. Sometimes even
this gave out, and the printer had to resort to blue wrapping paper in
order to enable him to present his readers with the weekly literary
feast.

In 1830, the number had increased from the humble beginning in the then
capital of Upper Canada, to twenty papers, and of these the following
still survive: The Chronicle and News, of Kingston, established 1810;
Brockville Recorder, 1820; St. Catharines Journal, 1824; Christian
Guardian, 1829.

There are now in Ontario 37 daily papers, 4 semi-weeklies; 1 tri-weekly,
282 weeklies, 27 monthlies, and 2 semi-monthlies, making a total
of 353.

The honour of establishing the first daily paper belongs to the late Dr. Barker, of Kingston,
founder of the British Whig, in 1834. There is perhaps nothing that
can give us a better idea the progress the Province has made than
a comparison of the papers published now with those of 1830.

The smallness of the sheets, and the meagreness of reading matter,
the absence of advertisements, except in a very limited way, and
the typographical work, makes us think that our fathers were a good-natured,
easy-going kind of people, or they would never have put up with such
apologies for newspapers.

Dr. Scadding, in Toronto of Old, gives a number of interesting and amusing
items respecting the "Early Press." He states that the whole of the
editorial matter of the Gazette and Oracle, on the 2nd January, 1802,
is the following: "The Printer presents his congratulatory compliments
to his customers on the new year."

If brevity is the soul of wit, this is a chef d'oeuvre. On another occasion the publisher apologises
for the non-appearance of his paper by saying: "The Printer having been called to York last week
upon business, is humbly tendered to his readers as an apology for the Gazette's not appearing."
This was another entire editorial, and it certainly could not have taken the readers long
to get at the pith of it. What would be said over such an announcement in these days? We have
every reason to feel proud of the advance the Press has made, both in number and influence, in Ontario.
The leading papers are ably conducted and liberally supported, and they will compare favourably
with those of any country. Various causes have led to this result. The prosperous condition of
the people, the increase of immigration, the springing up of railway communication, the extension
and perfecting of telegraphy, and, more than all, the completeness and efficiency of our school system
throughout the Province, have worked changes not to be mistaken. These are the sure indices of our progress
and enlightenment; the unerring registers that mark our advancement as a people. The only bank
in the Province in 1830 was the Bank of Upper Canada, with a capital of L100, 000. There are now nine chartered
banks owned in Ontario, with a capital of$ 17,000,000, and there are seven banks owned, with one exception,
in the Province of Quebec, having offices in all the principal towns. There are also numbers
of private banks and loan companies, the latter representing a capital
of over$ 20,000,000.

This is a prolific growth in half a century, and a satisfactory evidence of material success. Insurance
has been the growth of the last fifty years. During the session of the House of Assembly in
1830, a bill was introduced to make some provision against accidents by fire. Since then the business
has grown to immense proportions. According to the returns of the Dominion Government for the
31st December, 1879, the assets of Canadian Life, Fire, Marine, Accident, and Guarantee Companies
were$ 10,346,587. British, doing business in Canada,$ 6,838,309. American, ditto,$ 1,685,599.
Of Mutual Companies, there are 94 in Ontario, with a total income
for 1879 of$ 485,579, and an expenditure of$ 455,861.

[Footnote: Inspector of Insurance Report, 1880.] Fifty years ago the revenue of Upper Canada was
L112, 166 13s 4d; the amount of duty collected L9, 283 19s. The exports amounted to L1, 555,404, and
the imports to L1, 555,404. There were twenty-seven ports of entry and thirty-one collectors
of customs. From the last published official reports we learn that
the revenue for Ontario in 1879 was$ 4,018,287, and that for the fiscal year
ending June 30th, 1880, the exports were$ 28,063,980, and imports$
27,869,444; amount of duty collected,$ 5,086,579; also that there
are fifty-six ports of entry and thirty-eight outposts, with seventy-three
collectors.

One of the most interesting features in the progress of Canada is the rapid growth of its marine.
It is correctly stated to rank fourth as to tonnage among the maritime powers of the world.
The United States, with its fifty-four millions of people and its immense coast-line, exceeds
us but by a very little, while in ocean steamers we are ahead.

In fact, the Allan Line is one of the first in the world. This is
something for a country with a population of only five-and-a-half
millions to boast of, and it is not by any means the only thing.
We have been spoken of as a people wanting enterprise-- a good-natured,
phlegmatic set-- but it is libel disproved by half a century's progress.
We have successfully carried out some of the grandest enterprises
on this continent.

At Montreal we have the finest docks in America. Our canals are unequalled;
our country is intersected by railroads; every town and village in
the land is linked to its neighbour by telegraph wires, and we have
probably more miles of both, according to population, than any other
people.

And while he was drying her eyes for her, she asked:

"How far are ye going? Axe?"

"Ay! And beyond! Can I act, I ask ye? Can I fight, I ask ye? Can ye do without me, I ask ye,
you a lone woman? And yer soul, as is mine to save?"

"But that business o' yours at Bursley?"

"Here's my bundle," he said, "and here's my best hat. And I've money and a pistol in my pocket.
The only thing I've clean forgot is my cornet; but I'll send for it and I'll play it at my
wedding. I'm Jock-at-a-Venture."

And while the van was rumbling in the dark night across the waste and savage moorland, and
while the children were sleeping hard at the back of the van, and while the crockery was restlessly
clinking in the racks and the lamp swaying, and while he held the reins, the thin, lithe, greying
man contrived to take into his arms the vast and amiable creature whom he desired. And the
van became a vehicle of high romance.

THE HEROISM OF THOMAS CHADWICK

I

"Have you heard about Tommy Chadwick?" one gossip asked another in Bursley.

"No."

"He's a tram-conductor now."

This information occasioned surprise, as it was meant to do, the expression on the faces of
both gossips indicating a pleasant curiosity as to what Tommy Chadwick would be doing next.

Thomas Chadwick was a "character" in the Five Towns, and of a somewhat unusual sort. "Characters"
in the Five Towns are generally either very grim or very jolly, either exceptionally shrewd
or exceptionally simple; and they nearly always, in their outward aspect, depart from the conventional.
Chadwick was not thus. Aged fifty or so, he was a portly and ceremonious man with an official
gait. He had been a policeman in his youth, and he never afterwards ceased to look like a policeman
in plain clothes. The authoritative mien of the policeman refused to quit his face. Yet, beneath
that mien, few men (of his size) were less capable of exerting authority than Chadwick. He
was, at bottom, a weak fellow. He knew it himself, and everybody knew it. He had left the police
force because he considered that the strain was beyond his strength. He had the constitution
of a she-ass, and the calm, terrific appetite of an elephant; but he maintained that night
duty in January was too much for him. He was then twenty-seven, with a wife and two small girls.
He abandoned the uniform with dignity. He did everything with dignity. He looked for a situation
with dignity, saw his wife and children go hungry with dignity, and even went short himself
with dignity. He continually got fatter, waxing on misfortune. And--another curious thing--he
could always bring out, when advisable, a shining suit of dark blue broadcloth, a clean collar
and a fancy necktie. He was not a consistent dandy, but he could be a dandy when he liked.

Of course, he had no trade. The manual skill of a policeman is useless outside the police force.
One cannot sell it in other markets. People said that Chadwick was a fool to leave the police
force. He was; but he was a sublime and dignified fool in his idle folly. What he wanted was
a position of trust, a position where nothing would be required from him but a display of portliness,
majesty and incorruptibility. Such positions are not easy to discover. Employers had no particular
objection to portliness, majesty and incorruptibility, but as a rule they demanded something
else into the bargain. Chadwick's first situation after his defection from the police was that
of night watchman in an earthenware manufactory down by the canal at Shawport. He accepted
it regretfully, and he firmly declined to see the irony of fate in forcing such a post on a
man who conscientiously objected to night duty. He did not maintain this post long, and his
reasons for giving it up were kept a dark secret. Some said that Chadwick's natural tendency
to sleep at night had been taken amiss by his master.

Thenceforward he went through transformation after transformation, outvying the legendary chameleon.
He was a tobacconist, a park-keeper, a rent collector, a commission agent, a clerk, another
clerk, still another clerk, a sweetstuff seller, a fried fish merchant, a coal agent, a book
agent, a pawnbroker's assistant, a dog-breeder, a door-keeper, a board-school keeper, a chapel-keeper,
a turnstile man at football matches, a coachman, a carter, a warehouseman, and a chucker-out
at the Empire Music Hall at Hanbridge. But he was nothing long. The explanations of his changes
were invariably vague, unseizable. And his dignity remained unimpaired, together with his broadcloth.
He not only had dignity for himself, but enough left over to decorate the calling which he
happened for the moment to be practising. 5th-- alto from different quarters. Chr r r r r r r r.-- 6th-- chorus,
grand, after which there is a pause, and then an old leader will
start as before.

Old Brown-- old Brown Get home-- get home, Your drunk, drunk, drunk, Coo chung-cooo chung Chuck-chuck-chuck.
Chr r r r r r r r. Many curious stories are told respecting the sagacity
of animals, among which the dog takes a prominent place.

My father had a large dog when I was a youngster that certainly deserves a place among the remarkable
ones of his race. Ring was a true friend, and never of his own accord violated the rules of
propriety with his kind, but woe to the dog who attempted to bully him. He possessed great strength,
and when driven into a contest, generally made short work of it,
and trotted away without any show of pride over his defeated contestant.

He was in the habit of following my father on all occasions and although
frequently shut up and driven back, was sure to be on hand at the
stopping point to take charge of the team, etc. On the occasion I
am about to mention, my father and mother were going on a visit to
his brothers some twenty-four miles distant.

Before starting in the morning the decree went forth that Ring must stop at home, and he was
accordingly shut up, with instructions that he was not to be let out until after dinner. It was
necessary to do this before any preparations were made for going away, for the simple reason that
it had been done repeatedly before, and when there was the least sign of a departure, experience
had taught him that the best plan was to keep out of the way, in which he generally succeeded
until too late to capture him. On this occasion Ring was outwitted. The horses were put to the
sleigh, and away they trotted. On the journey they stopped at Picton for a time, when the team
was driven into the tavern yard and fed, during which time other
teams were coming and going. After about an hour they started again,
driving through the village, and on towards their destination.

Some five or six hours after, when all possible chance of Ring's following seemed to have passed,
he was let out. The dog seemed to know at once what had been going on, and after a careful inspection,
discovered that father and mother, with the horses and sleigh, were gone. He rushed about the
place with his nose to the ground, and when he had settled which way they had gone, set off in full
chase up the road, and a few minutes before they had reached my uncle's, Ring passed them,
on the road, wagging his tail, and looking as if he thought that was a good joke. The singular point
is how the dog discovered their route, and how, hours after, he traced them up into the tavern
yard and out through a street, and along a road where horses and sleighs were passing all the time;
and how he distinguished the difference of the horses'feet and sleigh runners from scores of
others which had passed to and fro in the meantime.

It is a case of animal instinct, or whatever it may be called, beyond
comprehension. Many years ago my father-in-law (the late Isaac Ingersoll,
Esq.), a prominent man in the District, and a wealthy farmer, widely
known, had frequent applications from parties in Kingston for a good
milch cow. In those days milk was not delivered, as now, at every door
in towns, and it became a necessity for every family to have a cow.

The wealthier people wanted good ones, and as the old gentleman was
known to keep good stock, he was enabled to get good prices.

On one occasion he sold a cow to a gentleman in the town above named, and sent her by steamboat down
the Bay of Quinte, a distance of over thirty miles. A week after, the old man was surprised
one morning to find this cow in his yard. She had made her escape from her new master, and returned to
her old quarters and associates. She was sent back, and after a time got away and travelled the thirty
miles again, and was found in the yard. The second journey of course was not so difficult, but by
what process did she discover, in the first place, the direction she was taken, and pursue a road
which she had never travelled, back to her old quarters. At her new home she was, if anything,
better fed and cared for; why should she embrace the first opportunity to steal away and seek
her old companions? Who can explain these things? In this case there is an attachment evinced
for home and associates, and a persistence in returning to them, most remarkable, and in the case
of the dog, an intelligence (or what you may be pleased to call it),
which enabled him to trace his master, and overtake him, which is altogether
beyond human ken.

There is the irrepressible cat, too. Every household is troubled from time to time with one or more
of these animals, which from their snuping propensities become a nuisance. I have on more than
one occasion put one in a bag and carried it miles away, and then let it go, rather than kill
it outright; but it was sure to be back almost as soon as myself. The 4th of June, the anniversary
of the birth of King George III., as well as that of the very much
more humble individual who pens these lines, for many years was the
day selected for the annual drill of the militia of the Province.

It was otherwise known as general training-day, and ten days or more previously, the men belonging
to the various battalions were "warned" to appear at a certain place in the district. Each individual
was subject to a fine of 10s or more if not on the ground to answer to his name when the roll was
called.

On the morning of that day, therefore, men on foot, on horseback and in waggons were to be seen
wending their way to the "training ground," or field, in close proximity to a tavern. It was
an amusing spectacle to see a few hundred rustics, whose ages ranged
from 16 to 40, in all kinds of dress, with old muskets that had been
used in the Revolutionary War or in that of 1812-- fusees that many
a year, as occasion required, had helped to contribute to the diminished
larder-- drawn up in a line, and marched round the field for a time.

The evolutions were such as might be expected from a crowd of raw countrymen, and often got tangled up
so that a military genius of more than superhuman skill would have been puzzled to get them in order
again. There was no other way to do it, but to stop and re-form the line. Then would come the
word of command: "Attention. Brown fall back. Johnson straighten up there. That will do. Now
men, at the word'Right about,'each man has to turn to his right, at the word'Left about,'each man turns
to his left. Now then: Attention-- Right about face." Confusion again, some turning to the right
and others to the left. A few strong phrases follow-- "As you were"-- and so the thing goes
on; the men are wheeled to the right and left, marched about the field, and, after being put through
various steps, are brought into line again.

The commanding officer, sword in hand, looks along the serried ranks,
the sergeants pass along the line, chucking one's head up, pushing
one back, bringing another forward, and then rings out the word of
command again: "Attention!

Shoulder arms! Make ready, present, fire!" Down come the old guns and sticks in a very threatening
attitude, a random pop along the line is heard, then "Stand at ease"--
after which the Colonel, in his red coat, wheels his charger about,
says a few words to the men, and dismisses them.

The rest of the day was spent by every man in carousing, horse-racing, and games, with an occasional
fight. After the arduous duties of the day, the officers had a special
spread at the tavern, and afterwards left for home with very confused
ideas as to the direction in which they should proceed to reach it.

Fifty years ago, shaving the beard, in Canada at all events, was
universal.

If a man were to go about as the original Designer of his person
no doubt intended, a razor would never have touched his face.

But men, like other animals, are subject to crotchets, and are wont to imitate superiors, so when
some big-bug like Peter the Great introduced the shears and razor, men appeared soon after with
cropped heads and clean chops. I do not remember that I ever saw a man with a full beard until after I had
passed manhood for some years, except on one occasion when I was a
youngster at school in the old school house on the concession.

A man passed through the neighbourhood-- I do not remember what he was doing-- with a long flowing
beard. We had somehow got the idea that no men except Jews wore their beards, and the natural
inference with us was that this man was one of that creed. He was as much of a curiosity to us
as a chimpanzee or an African lion would have been, and we were about
as afraid of him as we would have been on seeing either of the other
animals.

The township of Adolphustown, in the county of Lennox, is the smallest township in the Province. Originally
the counties of Lennox and Addington, Frontenac, Hastings and Prince Edward were embraced
in the Midland District.

These counties, as the country advanced in population, were one after another set off, the last
being the united counties of Lennox and Addington, separated from
Frontenac, and with the town of Napanee as its capital.

The township in my young days was known as fourth town, as the townships east of it as far as
Kingston were known as first, second and third town. Immediately
after the American War, the land along the Bay of Quinte, embracing
these townships, with fifth, sixth and seventh town to the west, were
taken up, and the arduous task of clearing away the bush at once
began.

The bay, from its debouche at Kingston, extends west about seventy miles, nearly severing at its termination
the county of Prince Edward from the main land. The land on either hand, for about thirty miles
west of Kingston, is undulating, with a gradual ascent from the shore, but when Adolphustown is reached,
Marysburgh, in the county of Prince Edward, on the opposite side of the bay, presents a bold
front, its steep banks rising from one to two hundred feet. From the Lake of the Mountain,
looking across the wide stretch of water formed by the sharp detour
of the bay in its westerly to a north-easterly course for fifteen
or twenty miles, the observer has one of the most charming scenes
in America spread out before him.

In the distance, the lofty rocky shore of Sophiasburgh, with its trees and shrubs crowding down
to the water's edge, stretch away to the right and left. To the west, the estuary known as
Picton Bay curves around the high wooded shore of Marysburgh, and beneath and to the east, the
four points of which the township of Adolphustown is composed reach out their woody banks into the
wide sweep of the bay like the four fingers of a man's hand.

For quiet, picturesque beauty, there is nothing to surpass it. On every hand the eye is arrested
with charming landscapes, and looking across the several points of
the township you have dwellings, grain fields, herds of cattle, and
wood.

Beyond you catch the shimmer of the water. Again you have clumps of trees and cultivated fields,
and behind them another stretch of water, and so on as far as the eye can reach. The whole course
of the bay, in fact, is a panorama of rural beauty, but the old homes
that were to be seen along its banks twenty-five and thirty years
ago have either disappeared altogether or have been modernized.

It is now very nearly one hundred years since the first settlers found their way up it, and it must
have been then a beautiful sight in its native wildness, the clear green water stretching away
to the west, the sinuosities of the shore, the numberless inlets, the
impenetrable forest and the streams that cut their way through it and
poured their contingents into its broad bosom, the islands here and
there, upon which the white man had never set his foot, water fowl
in thousands, whose charming home was then for the first time invaded,
skurrying away with noisy quake and whir, the wood made sweet with
the song of birds, the chattering squirrel, the startled deer, the
silent murmur of the water as it lapped the sedgy shore or gravelly
beach-- these things must have combined to please, and to awaken thoughts
of peaceful homes, in the near future to them all.

The Bay of Quinte, apart from its delightful scenery, possesses an
historical interest. It is not known from whence it received its name, but there
is no doubt it is of French origin. Perhaps some of the old French voyageurs,
halting at Fort Frontenac, on their way west, as they passed across
it, and through one of the gaps that open the way to the broad expanse
of Lake Ontario, may have christened it.

Be this as it may, it was along its shores that the first settlers of the Province located. Here came
the first preachers, offering to the lonely settler the bread of
life.

On its banks the first house devoted to the worship of God was erected, and the seed sown here,
as the country grew, spread abroad. Here the first schoolmaster began his vocation of instructing
the youth. The first steamboat was launched (1816) upon its waters at Ernesttown, near the
present village of Bath. Kingston, for a long time the principal town of the Province, then composed
of a few log houses, was the depot of supplies for the settlers. It has a history long anterior to
this date. In 1673, Courcelles proceeded to Cataraqui with an armed force to bring the Iroquois to terms,
and to get control of the fur trade. Then followed the building of Fort Frontenac. The restless
trader and discoverer, La Salle, had the original grant for a large domain around the fort.
Here, in 1683, La Barre built vessels for the navigation of the lake,
and the year following held a great council with the Five Nations of
Indians, at which Big Mouth was the spokesman.

The fort was destroyed by Denonville in 1689, and rebuilt in 1696.
It was again reduced by Colonel Bradstreet in 1758. In Adolphustown
many of the first settlers still lived when I was a boy, and I have
heard them recount their trials and hardships many a time. Besides the U. E.
Loyalists there were a number of Quaker families which came to the Province
about the same time, leaving the new Republic, not precisely for the
same reasons, but because of their attachment to the old land. During
the war, these people, who are opposed to war and bloodshed, suffered
a good deal, and were frequently imprisoned, and their money and
property appropriated. This did not occur in Canada, but they were subject
to a fine for some time, for not answering to their names at the annual
muster of the militia. The fine, however, was not exacted, except in cases
where there were doubts as to membership with the society.

This small township has contributed its quota to the Legislature of the country. T. Dorland represented
the Midland District in the first Parliament of the Province, and was followed by Willet Casey, when
Newark or Niagara was the capital. The latter was succeeded several years
later by his son, Samuel Casey, but, as often happens, there was a difference
in the political opinions of the father and son. The father was a Reformer,
the son a Tory; and at the election, the old gentleman went to the
poll and recorded his vote against his son, who was nevertheless
elected.

The Roblins, John P---, who represented the county of Prince Edward,
and David, who sat for Lennox and Addington, were natives of the
township.

The Hagermans, Christopher and D---, were also fourth town boys, with whom my mother went to
school. The old homestead, a low straggling old tenement, stood on the bay shore a few yards west
of the road that leads to the wharf. I remember it well. It was destroyed by fire years ago.
The father of Sir John A. Macdonald kept a store a short distance to the
east of the Quaker meeting-house on Hay Bay, on the third concession.

It was a small clap-boarded building, painted red, and was standing
a few years ago.

I remember being at a nomination in the village of Bath, on which occasion there were several speakers
from Kingston, among them John A. Macdonald, then a young lawyer just feeling his way into political
life. He made a speech, and began something in this way: "Yeomen of the county of Lennox and Addington,
I remember well when I ran about in this district a barefooted boy,"& c. He had the faculty then,
which he has ever since preserved, of getting hold of the affections of the people. This bonhommie
has had much to do with his popularity and success.

I recollect well how lustily he was cheered by the staunch old farmers on the occasion referred to.
A few years later a contest came off in the county of Prince Edward,
where I then resided. "Let me see. Your eldest daughter
has two little boys, hasn't she?"

"Yes'm," said Thomas--"twins."

"I thought so. Her husband is my cook's cousin. Well, here's two threepenny bits--one for each
of them." With some trouble she extracted the coins from a rather shabby leather purse--evidently
her household purse. She bestowed them upon the honest conductor with another grateful and
condescending smile. "I hope you don't mind taking them for the chicks," she said. "I do like
giving things to children. It's so much nicer, isn't it?"

"Certainly, m'm."

Then the servant brought the glass of beer, and Mrs Vernon, with yet another winning smile,
and yet more thanks, left him to toss it off on the mat, while the servant waited for the empty
glass.

IV

On the following Friday afternoon young Paul Ford was again on the Moorthorne car, and subject
to the official ministrations of Thomas Chadwick. Paul Ford was a man who never bore malice
when the bearing of malice might interfere with the gratification of his sense of humour. Many
men--perhaps most men--after being so grossly insulted by a tram-conductor as Paul Ford had
been insulted by Chadwick, would at the next meeting have either knocked the insulter down
or coldly ignored him. But Paul Ford did neither. (In any case, Thomas Chadwick would have
wanted a deal of knocking down.) For some reason, everything that Thomas Chadwick said gave
immense amusement to Paul Ford. So the young man commenced the conversation in the usual way:

"How do, Tommy?"

The car on this occasion was coming down from Moorthorne into Bursley, with its usual bump
and rattle of windows. As Thomas Chadwick made no reply, Paul Ford continued:

"How much did she give you--the perfect lady, I mean?"

Paul Ford was sitting near the open door. Thomas Chadwick gazed absently at the Town Park,
with its terra-cotta fountains and terraces, and beyond the Park, at the smoke rising from
the distant furnaces of Red Cow. He might have been lost in deep meditation upon the meanings
of life; he might have been prevented from hearing Paul Ford's question by the tremendous noise
of the car. He made no sign. Then all of a sudden he turned almost fiercely on Paul Ford and
glared at him.

"Ye want to know how much she gave me, do ye?" he demanded hotly.

"Yes," said Paul Ford.

"How much she gave me for taking her that there purse?" Tommy Chadwick temporized. 

"Very well indeed."

"This Ebers," continued Fullaway, turning to Van Koon, "was a young
fellow, Swiss, German, something of that sort, who acted as valet
to me and to some other men here in this hotel for a time.

I needn't go into too many details now, but there's no doubt that
he knew, and was in touch with, Lisette Beaurepaire, and Miss Lennard
positively identifies him as the man who met her and Lisette at Hull,
and represented himself as Lisette's brother.

Now then, Ebers-- we'll stick to that name for the sake of clearness-- was in and out of my rooms
a good deal, of course. And what I want to know now, Mrs. Marlow, is-- do you think he got access to our
letters, papers, books? Could he find out, for instance, that I was engaged in this deal between
the Princess Nastirsevitch and Mr. Delkin, and that Miss Lennard
had bought the Pinkie Pell pearls?

Think!"

Mrs. Marlow had evidently done her thinking; she replied without
hesitation.

"If he did, or could, it would be through your own carelessness, Mr.
Fullaway," she said.

"You know that I am ridiculously careful about that sort of thing!

From the time I come here in the morning-- ten-o'clock-- until I leave
at five, no one has any chance of seeing our papers, or our letter
book, or our telegram-copies book.

They are always on my desk while I am in the office, and when I go downstairs to lunch I lock
them up in the safe. But-- you're not careful! How many times have I come in the morning, and
found that you've taken these things out of the safe over-night and left them lying about for
anybody to see? Dozens of times!"

"I know-- I know!" admitted Fullaway with a groan. "I'm frightfully
careless-- always was.

I quite admit it, Mrs. Marlow, quite!"

"Of course," continued Mrs. Marlow, in precise, even tones, "of course if you left the letter-book
lying round, and the book in which the duplicates of all our telegrams and cablegrams are kept, too-- why,
this Ebers man could easily read what he liked for himself when he was in here of a morning before
you got up. He was in and out a great deal, that's certain. And as regards those two affairs, the documents
we have about them are pretty plain, Mr. Fullaway. Anybody of average intelligence could find
out in ten minutes from our letter-book and telegram-book that we
negotiated the sale of the Pinkie Pell pearls to Miss Lennard, and
that Mr. James Allerdyke was bringing here a valuable parcel of jewels
from Russia.

And," concluded Mrs. Marlow quietly, "from what I saw of him, Ebers
was a smart man."

Van Koon, who had been listening attentively to all this, turned a half-whimsical, half-reproving
glance on Fullaway, who sat in a contrite attitude, drumming his
fingers on the polished table.

"I guess you're a very careless individual, my friend," he said, shaking his head. "If you will
leave your important papers lying about, as this lady says you're in the habit of doing, what
do you expect? Now, you've been wondering who got wind of this jewel deal, and here's the very
proof that you gave every chance to this Ebers to acquaint himself
with it!

And what I'd like to know now, Fullaway, is this-- what use do you
suppose this young fellow made of the information he acquired?

That seems to me to be the point."

"Yes!" exclaimed Allerdyke suddenly. "That is the point!"

Fullaway smote the table.

"The thing's obvious!" he cried.

"He sold his information to a gang.

There must have been-- I mean must be-- a gang. It's utterly impossible that all this could have
been worked by one man. The man we've heard of in connection with the deaths of Lisette Beaurepaire
and of Ebers himself is only one of the combination. I'm as sure of that as I am that I see
you. But-- who are they?"

Nobody answered this question. Allerdyke plunged his hands in his pockets and stared at Fullaway;
Mrs. Marlow began to trace imaginary patterns on the surface of the table; Van Koon produced
a penknife and began to scrape the edges of his filbert nails with
a preoccupied air.

"There's the thing I've insisted on all along, Fullaway, you know," he said at last, finding
that no one seemed inclined to speak. "I've insisted on it, but you've always put it off. I don't
care what you say-- it'll have to come to it. Let me suggest it, now, to our friends here-- they're
both cute enough, I reckon!"

"Oh, as you please, as you please!" replied Fullaway, with a wave of his hands. "Say anything
you like, Van Koon-- it seems as if too much couldn't be said at
this juncture."

"All right," answered Van Koon. He turned to Allerdyke and Mrs. Marlow. "Ever since this affair
was brought under my notice," he said, "I've pointed out to Fullaway certain features in connection
with it. First-- there's no evidence whatever that this plot originated in or was worked from
Russia. Second-- there is evidence that it began here in London and was carried out from London.
And following on that second proposition comes another. Fullaway knew that these jewels were
coming--"

He paused and gave the secretary a keen look. And Allerdyke, watching her just as keenly, saw
her face and eyes as calm and inscrutable as ever; it was absolutely evident that nothing could
move this woman, no chance word or allusion take her unawares. Van
Koon smiled, and leaned nearer.

"But,"
he said, tapping the table in emphasis of his words, "there was somebody else who knew of this
deal, somebody whose name Fullaway there steadfastly refuses to bring
in. Delkin!"

Fullaway suddenly laughed, throwing up his arms.

"Delkin!" he exclaimed satirically. "A millionaire several times over! The thing's ridiculous,
Van Koon! Delkin would kick me out if I went and asked him--"

"Delkin will have to be asked," interrupted Van Koon. "You will not face the facts, Fullaway. Millionaire,
multimillionaire, Delkin was the third person (I'm leaving this valet,
Ebers, clean out, though I've not the slightest doubt he was one of
the pieces of the machine) who knew that James Allerdyke was bringing
two hundred and fifty thousand pounds'worth of jewels for his, Delkin's
approval!

That's a fact, Fullaway, which cannot be got over."

"Psha!" exclaimed Fullaway. "I suppose you think Delkin, who could buy up the best jeweller's
shop in London or Paris and throw its contents to the street children
to play with--"

"What is it that's in your mind, Mr. Van Koon?" asked Allerdyke, interrupting Fullaway's eloquence.
"You've some theory?"

"Well, I don't know about theory," answered Van Koon, "but I guess I've got some natural common
sense. If Fullaway there thinks I'm suggesting that Delkin organized a grand conspiracy to rob James
Allerdyke, Fullaway's wrong-- I'm not. What I am suggesting, and have been suggesting this last
three days, is that Delkin should be asked a plain and simple question,
which is this-- did he ever tell anybody of this proposed deal?

If so-- whom did he tell? And if that isn't business," concluded Van Koon, "then I don't know
business when I see it!"

"What's your objection?" asked Allerdyke, looking across at Fullaway. "What objection can you
have?"

Fullaway shook his head.

"Oh, I don't know!" he said. "Except that it seems immaterial, and that I don't want to bother Delkin.
I'm hoping that these jewels will be found, and that I'll be able
to complete the transaction, and-- besides, I don't believe for one
instant that Delkin would tell anybody.

I only had two interviews with Delkin-- one at his hotel, one here. He understood the affair
was an entirely private and secret transaction."

Mrs. Marlow suddenly raised her head, and spoke quickly.

"You're forgetting something, Mr. Fullaway," she said. "You had a letter from Mr. Delkin confirming
the provisional agreement, which was that he should have the first
option of buying the Princess Nastirsevitch's jewels, then being brought
by Mr. James Allerdyke from Russia."

"True-- true!" exclaimed Fullaway, clapping a hand to his forehead.

"So I had! I'd forgotten that.

But, after all, it was purely a private letter from Delkin, and--"

"No," interrupted Mrs. Marlow. "It was written and signed by Mr. Delkin's secretary. So that
the secretary knew of the transaction."

Van Koon shook his head and glanced at Allerdyke.

"There you are!" he said. "The secretary knew-- Delkin's secretary! How do we know that Delkin's
secretary--?"

"Oh, that's all rot, Van Koon!" exclaimed Fullaway testily. "Delkin's secretary, Merrifield, has
been with him for years to my knowledge, and--"

But Allerdyke had suddenly risen and was picking up his hat from a
side table.

He turned to Fullaway as he put it on.

"I quite agree with Mr. Van Koon," he said, "and as I'm James Allerdyke's cousin and his executor,
I'm going to step round and see this Mr. Delkin at his hotel-- the Cecil, you said. It's no use
trifling, Fullaway-- Delkin knew, and Mrs. Marlow now tells us his secretary knew. All right!--
my job is to see, in person, anybody who knew. Then, maybe, I myself
shall get to know."

Van Koon, too, rose.

"I know Delkin, slightly," he said. "I'll go with you."

At that, Fullaway jumped up, evidently annoyed and unwilling, but prepared to act against his own
wishes.

"Oh, all right, all right!" he exclaimed. "In that case we'll all go. Come on-- it's only across
the Strand. Back after lunch, Mrs. Marlow, if anybody wants me."

The three men marched out, and left the pretty secretary standing by the table from which they had
all risen. She stood there for a few minutes in deep thought-- stood until a single stroke from
the clock on the mantelpiece roused her. At that she walked into the outer office, put on
her coat and hat, and, leaving the hotel, went sharply off in the
direction of Arundel Street.

CHAPTER
XXVII THE MILLIONAIRE, THE STRANGER, AND THE PRINCESS As the three
men threaded their way through the crowded Strand and approached the
Hotel Cecil, Fullaway suddenly drew their attention to a private automobile
which was turning in at the entrance to the courtyard.

"There's Delkin, in his car," he exclaimed, "and, great Scott, there's
our Princess with him-- Nastirsevitch!

But who's the other man? Looks like a compatriot of ours, Van Koon, eh?" Van Koon, who had been
staring about him as they crossed over from the corner of Wellington Street, turned and glanced at
the occupants of the car.

Allerdyke was looking there, too. He had never seen Delkin as yet, and
he was curious to set eyes on a man who had made several millions
out of canning meat.

He had no very clear conception of American millionaires, and he
scarcely knew what he expected to see.

But there were two men in the car with the Princess Nastirsevitch,
and they were both middle-aged.

One man was a tall, handsome, military-looking fellow, dressed in grey tweeds and wearing a Homburg
hat of light grey with a darker band; his upturned, grizzled moustache gave him a smart, rather
aggressive appearance; the monocle in his eye added to his general impressiveness. The other
man was not particularly impressive-- a medium sized, rather plump little man, with a bland, smiling
countenance and mild eyes beaming through gold-rimmed spectacles; he sat with his back to the driver,
and was just then leaning forward to tell something to the Princess and the man in the Homburg
hat who were bending towards him and, smiling at what he said. "Which of'em is Delkin, then?" asked
Allerdyke as the automobile swept into the courtyard. "Big or little?" "The little fellow with
the spectacles," replied Fullaway. "Quiet, unobtrusive man, Delkin-- but cute as they're made. Know
the other man, Van Koon?" Van Koon had twisted round and was staring back in the direction from which
they had come, he shook his head, a little absent-mindedly. "Not from Adam," he answered, "but
there's a man-- Bostonian-- just gone along there that I do know
and want to see badly.

Wait a bit for me in the courtyard there, Fullaway-- shan't be long." He turned as he spoke,
and darted off through the crowd, unusually dense at that moment
because of the luncheon hour.

Fullaway, making no comment, walked forward into the courtyard and looked about him. Suddenly he
nodded his head towards a far corner.

"There's Delkin and the Princess, and the man who was with them, sitting
at a table over there," he said. "I didn't know that Delkin and the
Princess were acquainted.

But then, of course, they're both staying in this hotel, and they're
both American.

Well, shall we go to them now, Allerdyke, or shall we sit down here
and wait a bit for Van Koon?"

"We'll wait," replied Allerdyke. He dropped into a chair and drew
out his cigarette-case.

"Have a drink while we're waiting?" he suggested, beckoning a waiter who was passing. "What's
it to be?" "Oh-- something small, then," said Fullaway.

"Dry sherry. Better bring three-- Van Koon won't be long." But the minutes passed and Van Koon was
still absent. Ten minutes more went, and still he did not come. And Fullaway pulled out his watch
with an air of annoyance. "Too bad of Van Koon," he said. "Time's going, and I know Delkin lunches
at two o'clock. Come on, Allerdyke," he continued, rising, "we'll
go over to Delkin.

If Van Koon comes, he'll find us. He's probably gone off with that other man, though-- he's an
absent-minded chap in some things, and too much given to the affair of the moment. Come on--
I'll introduce you."

The Chicago millionaire, once put in possession of Allerdyke's name,
looked at him with manifest curiosity, and motioned him and Fullaway
to take seats with himself and his two companions.

"We were just talking of your case, Mr. Allerdyke," he said quietly.

"The Princess, of course, has told me about you.

Fullaway, I don't know if you know this gentleman-- his name's well enough known, anyway. This
gentleman is Mr. Chilverton, the famous New York detective.

Chilverton-- Mr. Fullaway, Mr. Allerdyke." Fullaway and Allerdyke both looked at the man in the Homburg
hat with great interest as they shook hands with him. Fullaway at any rate knew of his world-wide
reputation; Allerdyke faintly remembered that he had heard of him in connection with some great
criminal affair. "Been telling Mr. Chilverton about our business,
Mr. Delkin?" asked Fullaway pleasantly.

"Asking his expert advice?" "I've told him no more than what he could
read for himself in the newspapers," answered Delkin. "He's got stuff
of his own to attend to, here in London.

About our affair now, as you call it, Fullaway. It's not my affair, or I guess I'd have been more
into it by this time. The Princess here thinks things are going real slow, and so do I. What do
you think, Mr. Allerdyke!" "It's a case in which things go slow of sheer necessity," replied Allerdyke.
"It's a case of widespread ramifications-- to use a long word.

But-- we keep having developments, Mr. Delkin. There's been one this morning. We came to see
you about it-- and perhaps you'll let Fullaway tell!-- he'll put things into fewer words than I
should." "Sure!" answered the millionaire. "Go ahead, Fullaway--
we're all interested."

Fullaway briefly told the story of the discovery at the hotel in the Docks that morning, and explained
the deductions which had been made from it.

He detailed the connection of Ebers, alias Federman or Herman, with himself, and reported the conversation
which had just taken place at his own rooms. And then he turned to Allerdyke, with an expressive
gesture. "I'll let Allerdyke say why we came here," he said. "It was his idea and Van Koon's-- not
mine. Your turn, Allerdyke." "I shan't be slow to take it," responded
Allerdyke, stirring himself.

"I'm one business man-- Mr. Delkin's another. I only want to ask you, Mr. Delkin, if you ever talked of
this jewel transaction to anybody beyond your own secretary? It's a plain question, and you'll
understand why I ask it." "Of course," replied Delkin genially. "Quite right to ask. I can answer
it in one word.

No! As to telling my secretary, Merrifield, who's been with me twelve
years, and is a thoroughly trustworthy man, I merely told him sufficient
for him to write and send that formal letter-- he knew, and knows
(at least, not from me) no details.

No, sir!-- never a word from me got about-- not even to my own daughter.
Of course, the Princess here and myself have discussed matters-- since
she came.

And now that you're here, Fullaway, I'll tell you what I think-- straight out. I think this affair
has all been planned from your own office!" Fullaway flushed and sat up in an attitude of
sudden indignation.

"Oh, come, Mr. Delkin!" he exclaimed. "I--" "Go softly, young man." said Delkin. "I mean no harm
to you, and no reflections on you.

But you know, I've been in your office a few times, and I have eyes in my head. What do you know
about that fascinating young woman you have there? I'm a pretty good judge of human nature and character,
and I should say that young lady is as clever and deep as they make'em.
Who is she?

There's one thing sure from what you've just told us, Fullaway-- you let her know all your
business secrets." Fullaway made no attempt to conceal his chagrin and vexation. "I've had Mrs.
Marlow in my employ for three years," he answered. "She came to me with excellent testimonials
and references. I've just as much reason to trust her as you have to trust Merrifield. If she'd been untrustworthy,
she could have robbed or defrauded me many a time over; she--" "Did she ever have the chance
of getting hold of a quarter of a million's worth of jewels before?" asked Delkin
with a shrewd glance at Allerdyke.

"Come, now! Even the most trusted people fall before a very big temptation.

All business folk know that. What's Mr. Allerdyke think?"

Allerdyke was not going to say what he thought.

He was wondering if Fullaway knew what he knew-- that Mrs. Marlow was also Miss Slade, that she
had some relations with a man who also bore two different names, that her actions were somewhat
suspicious. But that was not the time to say all this-- he said something non-committal instead. "There
seems to be no doubt that the knowledge that my cousin was carrying the jewels leaked out here--
and from Fullaway's office," he answered. "Through this fellow Ebers!"
broke in Fullaway excitedly.

"It's all
rot to think that Mrs. Marlow had anything to do with it!

Great Scott!-- do any of you mean to suggest that she engineered several murders, and--" Delkin laughed-- a soft,
cynical laugh. "You're lumping a lot of big stuff altogether, Fullaway," he remarked drily.
"Do you know what I think of all this business? I think that everybody's
jumping at conclusions.

There are lots of questions, problems, difficulties that want solving and answering before I come
to any conclusion. I'll tell you what they are," he went on bending forward in his lounge chair and
looking from one to the other of the faces around him and beginning
to tick off his points on the tips of his fingers.

"Listen! One-- Was James Allerdyke really murdered, or did he die a natural death? Two-- Had James Allerdyke
those jewels in his possession when he entered that S---- Hotel at
Hull! Three-- Has the robbery, or disappearance, of the Princess Nastirsevitch's
jewels anything whatever to do with the theft of Mademoiselle de Longarde's
property?

Four-- Was that man Lydenberg shot in Hull as
a result of some connection with either, or both, of these affairs, or was
he murdered for private or political reasons?

Let me get a clear understanding of everything
that's behind all these problems," he concluded, with a knowing smile,
"and I'll tell you something!" "You think it possible that the Nastirsevitch
affair is the work of one lot, and the Lennard affair the work of
another?" asked Allerdyke, thoughtfully.

"In that case, I'll ask you a question, Mr. Delkin.

How do
you account for the fact that my cousin James, the Frenchwoman, Lisette
Beaurepaire, and his valet, Ebers, or Federman, or Herman, were all found
dead under similar circumstances? Come, now!" "Aye, but were they?" demanded
Delkin, clapping his hands together with a smile of triumphantly suggestive
doubt. "Were they? You don't know-- and the expert analysts don't
know yet, and perhaps never will. I'll grant you that there's a strong
probability that Ebers and the French maid were victims of the same murderer;
but that doesn't prove that your cousin was. No, sir!-- my impression
is that everybody is taking too much for granted. And whether it offends
you or not, Fullaway-- and my intention's good-- you ought to make drastic researches
into your office procedure-- you know what I mean. The leakage of the
secret, sir, came from-- there!" Fullaway rose. "Well, I shan't do any
good by sitting here," he said, a little huffily. "If I'm going to
begin those drastic researches I'd better begin. Coming, Allerdyke?" The
two men walked away together after taking leave of the millionaire and
the Princess. But before they were clear of the courtyard, Chilverton
caught them and tapped Fullaway on the elbow.

"Say!" he said confidentially. "You won't mind
my asking you-- who's this Van Koon that you mentioned?" "Man from
our side who's been here in London all this spring," answered Fullaway
promptly. "He was coming with Allerdyke and me just now, but he turned
back-- just when you and Delkin drove in here." Chilverton gave Fullaway
a quick look. "Did he see me?" he asked. "Sure!" replied Fullaway. "Asked
who you were-- or I did."

"You did," remarked Allerdyke. "Then he went off." "Describe
him," said Chilverton. He listened attentively while Fullaway gave
him a sketch of Van Koon's appearance. "Um!" he continued. "Do you
mind my walking to your hotel with you? I believe I know that man,
and I'd like to see him." A hall-porter was standing at the door of the
Waldorf who had been there when the three men went out together at
one o'clock. Fullaway beckoned him. "Seen anything of Mr. Van Koon?"
he asked. "Mr. Van Koon?-- yes, sir. He came back a few minutes after
you and Mr. Allerdyke and he had gone out, got a suit-case from upstairs,
left word that he'd be away for the night, and went off in a taxi,
sir," answered the man.

"Seemed to be in a great hurry, sir!"

Before Fullaway
could speak, Chilverton seized the hall-porter's arm. "Did you hear him
give the cab-driver any direction?" "Yes, sir," replied the man promptly.

"St.
Pancras Station, sir." Without a word, Chilverton turned, hurried
out to the pavement, and leapt into a taxi-cab that was standing there unengaged.
In another instant the taxi-cab was off, and Allerdyke and Fullaway
turned to each other.

Then Allerdyke laughed. "That's
why Van Koon turned back, Fullaway," he said in a low voice.

"He
recognized Chilverton. Now, then-- why did that recognition make him
run? And-- who is he?" CHAPTER XXVIII THE FIRST PURSUIT For a moment
Fullaway stood in the doorway of the hotel, staring towards the mouth
of Kingsway, around the corner of which Chilverton's cab had already
disappeared.

Then he turned,
gave Allerdyke a look of absolute non-comprehension, and with a sudden
gesture, as of surrender to circumstances, walked into the hotel and
made for the stairs.

"That licks everything!" he muttered, as he and Allerdyke went up
to the first floor.

"Tell you what
it is, Allerdyke-- my poor brain is getting into a whirl!

We've had quite enough excitement
this morning in all conscience, and now this comes on top of it.

Now, how in creation do you explain this last
occurrence?" Allerdyke laughed cynically. "I don't know so much of the
world as you do, Fullaway," he said, "but I don't think this needs
much explanation.

When a man makes
himself suddenly scarce at sight of a well-known detective, I should
say that man knows the detective wants him-- badly!

My impression
is that at this moment your friend Van Koon is running away from
Chilverton, and Chilverton's going hot-foot after him.

And--" They were at that moment
passing the room which Van Koon had occupied, and Allerdyke suddenly
remembered the occasion on which he had seen Mrs. Marlow steal out
of it, suspiciously and furtively, and when its proper tenant was
away.

He had carefully abstained from telling
Fullaway about that little incident, preferring to wait until events
had further developed. And the truth is that the atmosphere of the Turk's Head, where commercial travellers
and actors forgather every night except perhaps Sundays, contains more good stories to the
cubic inch than any other resort in the county of Staffordshire. A few seconds after the explosion
there was a dropping fusillade--the commercial travellers and the actors shutting their doors.
And about five minutes later there was another and more complicated dropping fusillade--the
commercial travellers and actors opening their doors, depositing their boots (two to each soul),
and shutting their doors.

Then silence.

And then out of the silence the terrified Mr Cowlishaw heard arising and arising a vast and
fearful breathing, as of some immense prehistoric monster in pain. At first he thought he was
asleep and dreaming. But he was not. This gigantic sighing continued regularly, and Mr Cowlishaw
had never heard anything like it before. It banished sleep.

After about two hours of its awful uncanniness, Mr Cowlishaw caught the sound of creeping footsteps
in the corridor and fumbling noises. He got up again. He was determined, though he should have
to interrogate burglars and assassins, to discover the meaning of that horrible sighing. He
courageously pulled his door open, and saw an aproned man with a candle marking boots with
chalk, and putting them into a box.

"I say!" said Mr Cowlishaw.

"Beg yer pardon, sir," the man whispered. "I'm getting forward with my work so as I can go
to th' fut-baw match this afternoon. I hope I didn't wake ye, sir."

"Look here!" said Mr Cowlishaw. "What's that appalling noise that's going on all the time?"

"Noise, sir?" whispered the man, astonished.

"Yes," Mr Cowlishaw insisted. "Like something breathing. Can't you hear it?"

The man cocked his ears attentively. The noise veritably boomed in Mr Cowlishaw's ears.

"Oh! That!" said the man at length. "That's th' blast furnaces at Cauldon Bar Ironworks. Never
heard that afore, sir? Why, it's like that every night. Now you mention it, I do hear it! It's
a good couple o' miles off, though, that is!"

Mr Cowlishaw closed his door.

At five o'clock, when he had nearly, but not quite, forgotten the sighing, his lifelong friend,
the oval-wheeled electric car, bumped and quaked through the street, and the ewer and basin
chattered together busily, and the seismic phenomena definitely recommenced. The night was
still black, but the industrial day had dawned in the Five Towns. Long series of carts without
springs began to jolt past under the window of Mr Cowlishaw, and then there was a regular multitudinous
clacking of clogs and boots on the pavement. A little later the air was rent by first one steam-whistle,
and then another, and then another, in divers tones announcing that it was six o'clock, or
five minutes past, or half-past, or anything. The periodicity of earthquakes had by this time
quickened to five minutes, as at midnight. A motor-car emerged under the archway of the hotel,
and remained stationary outside with its engine racing. And amid the earthquakes, the motor-car,
the carts, the clogs and boots, and the steam muezzins calling the faithful to work, Mr Cowlishaw
could still distinguish the tireless, monstrous sighing of the Cauldon Bar blast furnaces.
And, finally, he heard another sound. It came from the room next to his, and, when he heard
it, exhausted though he was, exasperated though he was, he burst into laughter, so comically
did it strike him.

It was an alarm-clock going off in the next room.

And, further, when he arrived downstairs, the barmaid, sweet, conscientious little thing, came
up to him and said, "I'm so sorry, sir. I quite forgot to tell the boots to call you!"

II

That afternoon he sat in his beautiful new surgery and waited for dental sufferers to come
to him from all quarters of the Five Towns. It needs not to be said that nobody came. The mere
fact that a new dentist has "set up" in a district is enough to cure all the toothache for
miles around. The one martyr who might, perhaps, have paid him a visit and a fee did not show
herself. This martyr was Mrs Simeon Clowes, the mayoress. By a curious chance, he had observed,
during his short sojourn at the Turk's Head, that the landlady thereof was obviously in pain
from her teeth, or from a particular tooth. She must certainly have informed herself as to
his name and condition, and Mr Cowlishaw thought that it would have been a graceful act on
her part to patronize him, as he had patronized the Turk's Head. But no! Mayoresses, even the
most tactful, do not always do the right thing at the right moment.

Besides, she had doubtless gone, despite toothache, to the football match with the Mayor, the
new club being under the immediate patronage of his Worship. All the potting world had gone
to the football match. Mr Cowlishaw would have liked to go, but it would have been madness
to quit the surgery on his opening day. So he sat and yawned, and peeped at the crowd crowding
to the match at two o'clock, and crowding back in the gloom at four o'clock; and at a quarter
past five he was reading a full description of the carnage and the heroism in the football
edition of the Signal. Though Hanbridge had been defeated, it appeared from the Signal that
Hanbridge was the better team, and that Rannoch, the new Scotch centre-forward, had fought
nobly for the town which had bought him so dear.

Mr Cowlishaw was just dozing over the Signal when there happened a ring at his door. He did
not precipitate himself upon the door. With beating heart he retained his presence of mind,
and said to himself that of course it could not possibly be a client. Even dentists who bought
a practice ready-made never had a client on their first day. He heard the attendant answer
the ring, and then he heard the attendant saying, "I'll see, sir."

It was, in fact, a patient. The servant, having asked Mr Cowlishaw if Mr Cowlishaw was at liberty,
introduced the patient to the Presence, and the Presence trembled.

The patient was a tall, stiff, fair man of about thirty, with a tousled head and inelegant
but durable clothing. He had a drooping moustache, which prevented Mr Cowlishaw from adding
his teeth up instantly.

"Good afternoon, mister," said the patient, abruptly. 

And what-- ""

Hush! "whispered Appleyard."

Miss Slade's coming out of the tea-house! And who's the man that's
with her?

"All five men glanced covertly over their shoulders at the open door
of the tea-house, some twenty to thirty yards away.

Down its steps came Miss Slade, accompanied by a man whom none of them had ever seen before--
a well-built, light-complexioned, fair-haired man, certainly not
an Englishman, but very evidently of Teutonic extraction, who was talking
volubly to his companion and making free use of his hands to point
or illustrate his conversation.

And when he saw this man, the chief turned quickly to Allerdyke and
intercepted a look which Allerdyke was about to give him-- the same
thought occurred to both.

Here was the man described by the hotel-keeper of Eastbourne Terrace and the shabby establishment
away in the Docks!"

Miss Slade! "exclaimed Fullaway." What on earth are you talking about? That's my secretary,
Mrs. Mar-- ""

Sh! "interrupted the chief."

That's one of your surprises, Mr. Fullaway! Quiet, now, quiet. Our job is to watch. Something'll
happen in a minute.

"Miss Slade and her talkative companion edged their way through the
crowd and passed out to an open patch of grass whereon a few children
were playing.

And as they went, two or three men also separated themselves from the idlers around the tables
and strolled quietly and casually in the same direction.

Also, Van Koon and the man with him left their table, and, as if they had no object in life
but mere aimless chatter and saunter, wandered away towards the couple who had first emerged from
the enclosure. And thereupon, Fullaway, not to be repressed, burst
out with another exclamation."

My
God, Chilverton! "he cried." There is Van Koon! And, by all that's wonderful, Merrifield with
him.

Now what-- "The New York detective, who was under no orders, and knew no reason why he should
restrain himself, wasted no time in words. Like a flash, he had leapt from his chair, threaded
his way through the surrounding people, and was after his quarry.

And with a muttered exclamation of anger, the chief rose and followed-- and it seemed to Allerdyke
that almost at the same instant a score of men, up to that moment innocently idling and lounging,
rose in company."

Damn it! "he growled, as he and Appleyard got up." That chap's going to spoil everything. What
is he after? Confound you, Fullaway!-- why couldn't you keep quiet
for a minute? Look there!

"Van
Koon had turned and seen Chilverton. So, too, had Van Koon's companion. So, also, had Miss Slade
and the man she was walking with. That man, too, saw the apparent idlers closing in upon him.
For a second he, and Van Koon, and the other man stared at each other
across the grass; then, as with a common instinct, each turned to
flee-- and at that instant Miss Slade, with a truly feminine cry, threw
herself upon her companion and got an undeniably firm grip on his
struggling arms."

This is the Eastbourne Terrace man! "she panted as Allerdyke and
half-a-dozen detectives relieved her."

Get the other two-- Van Koon and Merrifield. Quick!

"But Van Koon was already in the secure grip of Chilverton, and the
person in the light blue suit was being safely rounded up by a posse
of grim-faced men.

CHAPTER XXXIII THE SMART MISS SLADE In no city of the world is a
crowd so quickly collected as in London; in none is one so easily
satisfied and dispersed.

Within five minutes the detectives had hurried their three captives
away towards the nearest cab-rank, and the people who had left their
tea and their cakes to gather round, to stare, and to listen had gone
back to their tables to discuss this latest excitement.

But the chief and Allerdyke, Fullaway and Appleyard, Miss Slade and Rayner stood in a little group
on the grass and looked at each other. Eventually, all looks except Rayner's centred on Miss Slade,
who, somewhat out of breath from her tussle, was settling her hat and otherwise composing herself.
And it was Miss Slade who spoke first when the party, as a party, found itself capable of speech."
I don't know who it was, "observed Miss Slade, rather more than a little acidly," who came interfering
in my business, but whoever he was he nearly spoilt it.

"She darted a much-displeased look at the chief, who hastened to exculpate himself." Not I! "he said
with a smile." So don't blame me, Miss Slade. I was merely a looker-on, a passive spectator-- until
the right moment arrived.

Do I gather that the right moment had not actually arrived-- for your purpose? "" You do, "answered Miss
Slade."

It hadn't. If you had all waited a few moments you would have had all three
men in conference round one of those tables, and they could have
been taken with far less fuss and bother-- and far less danger to me.

It's the greatest wonder in the world that I'm not lying dead on
that grass!

"" We are devoutly thankful that you are not, "said the chief fervently."
But-- you're not!

And the main thing is that the three men are in custody, and as for
interference-- ""

It was Chilverton, "interrupted Fullaway, who had been staring at
his mysterious secretary as if she were some rare object which he
had never seen before."

Chilverton!-- all Chilverton's fault. As soon as he set eyes on Van
Koon nothing would hold him. And what I want to know-- "" We all want
to know a good deal, "remarked the chief, glancing invitingly at Miss
Slade."

Miss Slade has no doubt a good deal to tell.

I suggest that we walk across to those very convenient chairs which I see over there by the shrubbery--
then perhaps-- "" I want to know a good deal, too, "said Miss Slade."

I don't know who you are, to start with, and I don't know why Mr.
Appleyard happens to be here, to end with.

"Appleyard answered these two questions readily." I'm here because
I happen to be Mr. Allerdyke's London representative, "he said."
This gentleman is a very highly placed official of the Criminal Investigation
Department.

"Miss Slade, having composed herself, favoured the chief with a deliberate
inspection."

Oh! in that case, "she remarked," in that case, I suppose I had better
satisfy your curiosity.

That is, "she continued, turning to Rayner," if Mr. Rayner thinks I may? "" I was going to suggest
it, "answered Rayner."

Let's sit down and tell them all about it. "The party of six went across
to the quiet spot which the chief had indicated, and Fullaway and
Appleyard obligingly arranged the chairs in a group.

Seated in the midst and quite conscious that she was the centre of
attraction in several ways, Miss Slade began her explanation of the
events and mysteries which had culminated in the recent sensational
event."

I daresay, "she said, looking round her," that some of you know a
great deal more about this affair than I do.

What I do know, however, is this-- the three men who have just been
removed are without doubt the arch-spirits of the combination which
robbed Miss Lennard, attempted to rob Mr. James Allerdyke, possibly
murdered Mr. James Allerdyke, and certainly murdered Lydenberg, Lisette
Beaurepaire, and Ebers.

Van Koon is an American crook, whose real name is Vankin; Merrifield, as you know, is Mr. Delkin's
secretary; the other man is one Otto Schmall, a German chemist, and
a most remarkably clever person, who has a shop and a chemical manufactory
in Whitechapel.

He's an expert in poison-- and I think you will have some interesting
matters to deal with when you come to tackle his share.

Well, that's plain fact; and now you want to know how I-- and Mr. Rayner--
found all this out. ""

Chiefly you, "murmured Rayner," chiefly you! "" You had better let
your minds go back to the morning of the 13th May last, "continued
Miss Slade, paying no apparent heed to this interruption."

On that morning I arrived at Mr. Fullaway's office at my usual time,
ten o'clock, to find that Mr. Fullaway had departed suddenly, earlier
in the morning, for Hull.

I at once guessed why he had gone-- I knew that Mr. James Allerdyke, in charge of the Princess
Nastirsevitch's jewels, was to have landed at Hull the night before,
and I concluded that Mr. Fullaway had set off to meet him.

But Mr. Fullaway has a bad habit of leaving letters and telegrams
lying about, for any one to see, and within a few minutes I found on
his desk a telegram from Mr. Marshall Allerdyke, dispatched early that
morning from Hull, saying that his cousin had died suddenly during
the night.

That, of course, definitely explained Mr. Fullaway's departure, and it also made me wonder, knowing
all I did know, if the jewels were safe.

"This, I repeat, was about ten to half-past ten o'clock. About twelve
o'clock of that morning, the 13th, Mr. Van Koon, whom I knew as a resident
in the hotel, and a frequent caller on Mr. Fullaway, came in. He wanted
Mr. Fullaway to cash a cheque for him. I told him that I could do that,
and I took his cheque, wrote out one of my own and went up town to
Parr's Bank, at the bottom of St. Martin's Lane, to get the cash for
him.

Mr. Van Koon stayed in the office, reading a bundle of American newspapers
which had just been delivered. I was away from the office perhaps
forty minutes or so; when I returned he was still there. I gave him
the money; he thanked me, and went away."

Towards the end of that afternoon, just before I was leaving the office,
I got a wire from Mr. Fullaway, from Hull.

It was quite short-- it merely informed me that Mr. James Allerdyke
was dead, under mysterious circumstances, and that the Nastirsevitch
property was missing.

Of course, I knew what that meant, and I drew my own conclusions.

"Now I come to the 14th-- a critical day, so far as I am concerned. During the morning a parcels-van
boy came into the office. He said that on the previous day, about half-past twelve o'clock, he had
brought a small parcel there, addressed to Mr. Fullaway, and had handed it to a gentleman who
was reading newspapers, and who had answered'Yes'when inquired of as Mr. Fullaway. This gentleman--
who, of course, was Van Koon-- had signed for the parcel by scribbling two initials'F. F.'in the proper
space.

The boy, who said he was new to his job, told me that the clerk at
the parcels office objected to this as not being a proper signature,
and had told him to call next time he was passing and get the thing
put right. He accordingly handed me the sheet, and I, believing that this
was some small parcel which Van Koon had taken in, signed for, and
placed somewhere in the office or in Mr. Fullaway's private room,
signed my own name, for Franklin Fullaway, over the penciled initials.

And as I did so I noticed that the parcel had been sent from Hull." When the boy had gone I looked
for that parcel. I could not find it anywhere.

It was certainly not in the office, nor in any of the rooms of Mr. Fullaway's suite. I was half
minded to go to Mr. Van Koon and ask about it, but I decided that I wouldn't; I thought I would wait until
Mr. Fullaway returned.

But all the time I was wondering what parcel it could be that was sent from Hull, and certainly
dispatched from there on the very evening before Mr. Fullaway's hurried journey. "Nothing happened
until Mr. Fullaway came back. Then a lot of things happened all at
once. There was the news he brought about the Hull affair.

Then there was the affair of the French maid. A great deal got into the
newspapers.

Mr. Rayner and I, who live at the same boarding-house, began to discuss
matters.

I heard, through Mr. Fullaway, that there was likelihood of a big reward, and I determined to have a try
for it-- in conjunction with Mr. Rayner. And so I kept my own counsel-- I said nothing about
the affair of the parcel." Fullaway, who had been manifesting signs
of impatience and irritation during the last few minutes, here snapped
out a question.

"Why didn't you tell me at once about the parcel?" he demanded.

"It was your duty!" Miss Slade gave her employer a cool glance. "Possibly!" she retorted. "But you
are much too careless to be entrusted with secrets, Mr. Fullaway.

I knew that if I told you about that parcel you'd spoil everything
at once. I wanted to do things my own way. I took my own way-- and
it's come out all right, for everybody. Now, don't you or anybody interrupt
again-- I'm telling it all in order."

Fullaway made an inarticulate growling protest, but Miss Slade took
no notice and continued in even, dispassionate tones, as if she had
been explained a mathematical problem.

"The affair prospered. The Princess came. The reward of fifty thousand
pounds was offered. Then Mr. Rayner and I put our heads together more
seriously. Much, of course, depended upon me, as I was on the spot.
I wanted a chance to get into Van Koon's rooms, some time when he
was out.

Fortunately the chance came. One afternoon, when Van Koon was in our office, he and Mr. Fullaway
settled to dine out together and go to the theatre afterwards. That gave me my opportunity. I
made an excuse about staying late at Mr. Fullaway's office and when both men were clear away
I let myself into Van Koon's room-- I'd already made preparations
for that-- and proceeded to search.

I found the parcel.

I took it into Mr. Fullaway's rooms and opened it, carefully. Inside I found a small cigar-box,
and in it the Princess's jewels.

I took them out. Then I put certain articles of corresponding weight into the box, did it
up again precisely as I had found it, smeared over the seals with
more black wax, went back to Van Koon's room with it, and placed it
again where I had found it-- in a small suit-case."

I now knew, of course, that Mr. James Allerdyke had sent those jewels
direct to Mr. Fullaway, immediately on his arrival in Hull, and that they
had fallen by sheer accident into Van Koon's hands.

But I wanted to know more. I wanted to know if Van Koon had any connection with this affair, and
if, when he saw that the parcel was from Hull, he had immediately jumped to the conclusion that
it might be from James Allerdyke, and might contain the actual valuables. Fortunately, Mr. Rayner
had already made arrangements with a noted private inquiry agent to have Van Koon most carefully
and closely watched. And the very day after I found and took possession of the jewels we received
a report from this agent that Van Koon was in the habit of visiting
the shop and manufactory of a German chemist named Schmall, in Whitechapel.

Further, he had twice come away from it, after lengthy visits, in company with a man whom the agent's
employees had tracked to the Hotel Cecil, and whom I knew, from their
description, to be Mr. Merrifield, Mr. Delkin's private secretary.

"Naturally, having discovered this, we gave instructions for a keener
watch than ever to be kept on both these men.

But the name of the German chemist gave me personally a new and most
important clue.

There had been employed at the Waldorf Hotel, for some weeks up to
the end of the first week in May, a German-Swiss young man, who then
called himself Ebers.

He acted as valet to several residents; amongst others, Mr. Fullaway. He was often in and out of Mr.
Fullaway's rooms. Once, Mr. Fullaway being out, and I having nothing to do, I was cleaning
up some photographic apparatus which I had there. This man Ebers came in with some clothes
of Mr. Fullaway's. Seeing what I was doing, he got talking to me
about photography, saying that he himself was an amateur.

He recommended to me certain materials and things of that sort which
he said he could get from a friend of his, a chemist, who was an enthusiastic
photographer and manufactured chemicals and things used in photography.

I gave him some money to get me a supply of things, and he brought various
packets and parcels to me two or three days later.

Each packet bore the name of Otto Schmall, and an address in a street which runs off Mile End
Road." Now, when the private inquiry agent made his reports to Mr. Rayner and myself about
Van Koon, and told us where he had been tracked to more than once,
I, of course, remembered the name of Schmall, and Mr. Rayner and I
began to put certain facts together.

They were these: "First.-- Ebers had easy access to Mr. Fullaway's room at all hours, and was often
in them when both Mr. Fullaway and I were out.

Mr. Fullaway is notoriously careless in leaving papers and documents, letters and telegrams lying
around. Ebers had abundant opportunities of reading lots of documents
relating to (1) the Pinkie Pell pearls, and (2) the proposed Nastirsevitch
deal."

Second.-- Ebers was a friend of Sehmall. Schmall was evidently a man
of great cleverness in chemistry.

"Third.-- All the circumstances of Mr. James Allerdyke's death, and
of Lisette Beaurepaire's death, pointed to unusually skillful poisoning.

Who was better able to engineer that than a clever chemist?"

Fourth.-- The jewels belonging to the Princess Nastirsevitch had
undoubtedly fallen into Van Koon's hands. Van Koon was a friend of
Schmall. So also, evidently, was Merrifield. Now, Merrifield, as Delkin's
secretary, knew of the proposed deal.

"Obviously, then, Schmall, Van Koon, and Merrifield were in league-- whether
Ebers was also in league, or was a catspaw, we did not trouble to decide.
But there was another fact which seemed to have some bearing, though
it is one which I have never yet worked out-- perhaps some of you
know something of it.

It was this: Just before he went to Russia, Mr. James Allerdyke,
being in town, gave me a photograph of himself which Mr. Marshall
Allerdyke had recently taken.

I kept that photo lying on my desk at Mr. Fullaway's for some time.
One day I missed it. It is such an unusual thing for me to misplace anything
that I turned over every paper on my desk in searching for it. It was
not to be found.

 There would then be forty minutes
to wait at Knype for the London express, which arrived at Euston considerably before noon.
After which there would be a clear ninety minutes before the business itself--and less than
a quarter of a mile to walk! Yes, there was a rich and generous margin for all conceivable
delays and accidents.

"The porter ought to be coming," said Simeon. It was twenty minutes to seven, and he was brushing
his hat.

Now such a remark from that personification of calm, that living denial of worry, Simeon, was
decidedly unsettling to Arthur. By chance, Mrs Hopkins came into the room just then to assure
herself that the young men whose house she kept desired nothing.

"Mrs Hopkins," Simeon asked, "you didn't forget to call at the station last night?"

"Oh no, Mr Simeon," said she; "I saw the second porter, Merrith. He knows me. At least, I know
his mother--known her forty year--and he promised me he wouldn't forget. Besides, he never
has forgot, has he? I told him particular to bring his barrow."

It was true the porter never had forgotten! And many times had he transported Simeon's luggage
to Bleakridge Station. If agriculture were freed from great landowners, while industry still
remained the bond-slave of the capitalist, the merchant, and the banker, nothing would be
accomplished.

The peasant suffers to-day not only in having to pay rent to the landlord; he is oppressed on all
hands by existing conditions.

He is exploited by the tradesman, who makes him pay half a crown
for a spade which, measured by the labour spent on it, is not worth
more than sixpence.

He is taxed by the State, which cannot do without its formidable
hierarchy of officials, and finds it necessary to maintain an expensive
army, because the traders of all nations are perpetually fighting
for the markets, and any day a little quarrel arising from the exploitation
of some part of Asia or Africa may result in war.

Then again the peasant suffers from the depopulation of country places: the young people are attracted
to the large manufacturing towns by the bait of high wages paid temporarily by the producers
of articles of luxury, or by the attractions of a more stirring life. The artificial protection
of industry, the industrial exploitation of foreign countries, the
prevalence of stock-jobbing, the difficulty of improving the soil
and the machinery of production-- all these agencies combine nowadays
to work against agriculture, which is burdened not only by rent, but
by the whole complex of conditions in a society based on exploitation.

Thus, even if the expropriation of land were accomplished, and every one were free to till the
soil and cultivate it to the best advantage, without paying rent,
agriculture, even though it should enjoy-- which can by no means be
taken for granted-- a momentary prosperity, would soon fall back into
the slough in which it finds itself to-day.

The whole thing would have to be begun over again, with increased
difficulties.

The same holds true of industry.

Take the converse case: instead of turning the agricultural labourers
into peasant-proprietors, make over the factories to those who work
in them.

Abolish the master-manufacturers, but leave the landlord his land, the banker his money, the
merchant his Exchange; maintain the swarm of idlers who live on the toil of the workmen, the thousand
and one middlemen, the State with its numberless officials,-- and industry would come to a standstill.
Finding no purchasers in the mass of peasants who would remain poor; not possessing the raw material,
and unable to export their produce, partly on account of the stoppage of trade, and still more
so because industries spread all over the world, the manufacturers would feel unable to struggle,
and thousands of workers would be thrown upon the streets. These starving crowds would be
ready and willing to submit to the first schemer who came to exploit them; they would even consent
to return to the old slavery, under promise of guaranteed work.

Or, finally, suppose you oust the landowners, and hand over the mills
and factories to the worker, without interfering with the swarm of
middlemen who drain the product of our manufacturers, and speculate
in corn and flour, meat and groceries, in our great centres of commerce.

Then, as soon as the exchange of produce is slackened; as soon as the great cities are left
without bread, while the great manufacturing centres find no buyers
for the articles of luxury they produce,-- the counter-revolution is
bound to take place, and it would come, treading upon the slain, sweeping
the towns and villages with shot and shell; indulging in orgies of
proscriptions and deportations, such as were seen in France in 1815,
1848, and 1871.

All is interdependent in a civilized society; it is impossible to reform any one thing without altering
the whole.

Therefore, on the day a nation will strike at private property, under
any one of its forms, territorial or industrial, it will be obliged
to attack them all.

The very success of the Revolution will impose it.

Besides, even if it were desired, it would be impossible to confine
the change to a partial expropriation.

Once the principle of the "Divine Right of Property" is shaken, no
amount of theorizing will prevent its overthrow, here by the slaves
of the field, there by the slaves of the machine.

If a great town, Paris for example, were to confine itself to taking
possession of the dwelling houses of the factories, it would be forced
also to deny the right of the bankers to levy upon the Commune a tax
amounting to£ 2,000,000, in the form of interest for former loans.

The great city would be obliged to put itself in touch with the rural districts, and its influence
would inevitably urge the peasants to free themselves from the landowner. It would be necessary
to communalize the railways, that the citizens might get food and
work, and lastly, to prevent the waste of supplies; and to guard against
the trusts of corn-speculators, like those to whom the Paris Commune
of 1793 fell a prey, it would have to place in the hands of the City
the work of stocking its warehouses with commodities, and apportioning
the produce.

Some Socialists still seek, however, to establish a distinction.

"Of course," they say, "the soil, the mines, the mills, and manufacturers
must be expropriated, these are the instruments of production, and
it is right we should consider them public property.

But articles of consumption-- food, clothes, and dwellings-- should
remain private property."

Popular common sense has got the better of this subtle distinction. We are not savages who can live
in the woods, without other shelter than the branches. The civilized man needs a roof, a room,
a hearth, and a bed. It is true that the bed, the room, and the house is a home of idleness
for the non-producer. But for the worker, a room, properly heated and lighted, is as much an
instrument of production as the tool or the machine. It is the place where the nerves and
sinews gather strength for the work of the morrow. The rest of the workman is the daily repairing
of the machine.

The same argument applies even more obviously to food.

The so-called economists, who make the just-mentioned distinction,
would hardly deny that the coal burnt in a machine is as necessary
to production as the raw material itself.

How then can food, without which the human machine could do no work,
be excluded from the list of things indispensable to the producer?

Can this be a relic of religious metaphysics?

The rich man's feast is indeed a matter of luxury, but the food of the worker is just as much
a part of production as the fuel burnt by the steam-engine.

The same with clothing. We are not New Guinea savages.

And if the dainty gowns of our ladies must rank as objects of luxury, there is nevertheless a
certain quantity of linen, cotton, and woolen stuff which is a necessity of life to the producer.
The shirt and trousers in which he goes to his work, the jacket he slips on after the day's
toil is over, are as necessary to him as the hammer to the anvil.

Whether we like it or not, this is what the people mean by a revolution.

As soon as they have made a clean sweep of the Government, they will
seek first of all to ensure to themselves decent dwellings and sufficient
food and clothes-- free of capitalist rent.

And the people will be right.

The methods of the people will be much more in accordance with science
than those of the economists who draw so many distinctions between
instruments of production and articles of consumption.

The people understand that this is just the point where the Revolution
ought to begin; and they will lay the foundations of the only economic
science worthy the name-- a science which might be called: "The Study
of the Needs of Humanity, and of the Economic Means to satisfy them."

FOOTNOTE: [2] "Shabble of a Duke" is an expression coined by Carlyle;
it is a somewhat free rendering of Kropotkine's "Monsieur le Vicomte,"
but I think it expresses his meaning.-- Trans.

CHAPTER V FOOD I If the coming Revolution is to be a Social Revolution, it will be distinguished
from all former uprisings not only by its aim, but also by its methods.
To attain a new end, new means are required.

The three great popular movements which we have seen in France during
the last hundred years differ from each other in many ways, but they
have one common feature.

In each case the people strove to overturn the old regime, and spent
their heart's blood for the cause.

Then, after having borne the brunt of the battle, they sank again
into obscurity.

A Government, composed of men more or less honest, was formed and
undertook to organize a new regime: the Republic in 1793, Labour in 1848,
the Free Commune in 1871.

Imbued with Jacobin ideas, this Government occupied itself first
of all with political questions, such as the reorganization of the
machinery of government, the purifying of the administration, the
separation of Church and State, civic liberty, and such matters.

It is true the workmen's clubs kept an eye on the members of the new
Government, and often imposed their ideas on them. But even in these
clubs, whether the leaders belonged to the middle or the working
classes, it was always middle-class ideas which prevailed.

They discussed various political questions at great length, but forgot
to discuss the question of bread.

Great ideas sprang up at such times, ideas that have moved the world;
words were spoken which still stir our hearts, at the interval of
more than a century.

But the people were starving in the slums. From the very Commencement of the Revolution industry
inevitably came to a stop-- the circulation of produce was checked, and capital concealed itself.
The master-- the employer-- had nothing to fear at such times, he
fattened on his dividends, if indeed he did not speculate on the wretchedness
around; but the wage-earner was reduced to live from hand to mouth.
Want knocked at the door.

Famine was abroad in the land-- such famine as had hardly been seen
under the old regime.

"The Girondists are starving us!" was the cry in the workmen's quarters in 1793, and thereupon
the Girondists were guillotined, and full powers were given to "the Mountain" and to the Commune. The
Commune indeed concerned itself with the question of bread, and made
heroic efforts to feed Paris.

At Lyons, Fouché and Collot d'Herbois established city granaries, but the sums spent on filling
them were woefully insufficient. The town councils made great efforts to procure corn; the bakers
who hoarded flour were hanged-- and still the people lacked bread.

Then they turned on the royalist conspirators and laid the blame at their door. They guillotined
a dozen or fifteen a day-- servants and duchesses alike, especially servants, for the duchesses
had gone to Coblentz. But if they had guillotined a hundred dukes and viscounts every day, it would
have been equally hopeless. The want only grew.

For the wage-earner cannot live without his wage, and the wage was
not forthcoming.

What difference could a thousand corpses more or less make to him?
Then the people began to grow weary.

"So much for your vaunted Revolution! You are more wretched than ever before," whispered the reactionary
in the ears of the worker. And little by little the rich took courage, emerged from their hiding-places,
and flaunted their luxury in the face of the starving multitude. They dressed up like scented
fops and said to the workers: "Come, enough of this foolery!

What have you gained by your Revolution?" And, sick at heart, his
patience at an end, the revolutionary had at last to admit to himself
that the cause was lost once more.

He retreated into his hovel and awaited the worst. Then reaction proudly asserted itself, and accomplished
a counter-revolutionary stroke.

The Revolution dead, nothing remained but to trample its corpse under foot. The White Terror began.
Blood flowed like water, the guillotine was never idle, the prisons were crowded, while the pageant
of rank and fashion resumed its old course, and went on as merrily
as before. This picture is typical of all our revolutions.

In 1848 the workers of Paris placed "three months of starvation"
at the service of the Republic, and then, having reached the limit
of their powers, they made, in June, one last desperate effort-- an
effort which was drowned in blood.

In 1871 the Commune perished for lack of combatants. It had taken
measures for the separation of Church and State, but it neglected,
alas, until too late, to take measures for providing the people with
bread.

And so it came to pass in Paris that élégantes and fine gentlemen
could spurn the confederates, and bid them go sell their lives for
a miserable pittance, and leave their "betters" to feast at their
ease in fashionable restaurants.

At last the Commune saw its mistake, and opened communal kitchens.

But it was too late.

Its days were already numbered, and the troops of Versailles were
on the ramparts.

"Bread, it is bread that the Revolution needs!" Let others spend their time in
issuing pompous proclamations, in decorating themselves lavishly
with official gold lace, and in talking about political liberty!...
Be it ours to see, from the first day of the Revolution to the last,
in all the provinces fighting for freedom, that there is not a single
man who lacks bread, not a single woman compelled to stand with the
wearied crowd outside the bakehouse-door, that haply a coarse loaf
may be thrown to her in charity, not a single child pining for want
of food.

It has always been the middle-class idea to harangue about "great
principles"-- great lies rather!

The idea of the people will be to provide bread for all.

And while middle-class citizens, and workmen infested with middle-class ideas admire their own
rhetoric in the "Talking Shops," and "practical people" are engaged
in endless discussions on forms of government, we, the "Utopian dreamers"--
we shall have to consider the question of daily bread.

We have the temerity to declare that all have a right to bread, that
there is bread enough for all, and that with this watchword of Bread
for All the Revolution will triumph.

II That we are Utopians is well known. So Utopian are we that we go the length of believing that the Revolution
can and ought to assure shelter, food, and clothes to all-- an idea
extremely displeasing to middle-class citizens, whatever their party
colour, for they are quite alive to the fact that it is not easy to
keep the upper hand of a people whose hunger is satisfied.

All the same, we maintain our contention: bread must be found for
the people of the Revolution, and the question of bread must take
precedence of all other questions.

If it is settled in the interests of the people, the Revolution will be on the right road;
for in solving the question of Bread we must accept the principle
of equality, which will force itself upon us to the exclusion of every
other solution.

It is certain that the coming Revolution-- like in that respect to the Revolution of 1848-- will
burst upon us in the middle of a great industrial crisis. Things have been seething for half
a century now, and can only go from bad to worse. Everything tends that way-- new nations entering
the lists of international trade and fighting for possession of the
world's markets, wars, taxes ever increasing.

National debts, the insecurity of the morrow, and huge colonial undertakings in every corner of
the globe. There are millions of unemployed workers in Europe at
this moment.

In three minutes they were driving rapidly through the London mist towards the other sex, and
in a quarter of an hour there was one bachelor the less in this vale of tears.

THE WIDOW OF THE BALCONY

I

They stood at the window of her boudoir in the new house which Stephen Cheswardine had recently
bought at Sneyd. The stars were pursuing their orbits overhead in a clear dark velvet sky,
except to the north, where the industrial fires and smoke of the Five Towns had completely
put them out. But even these distant signs of rude labour had a romantic aspect, and did not
impair the general romance of the scene. Charlie had loved her; he loved her still; and she
gave him odd minutes of herself when she could, just to keep him alive. Moreover, there was
the log fire richly crackling in the well-grate of the boudoir; there was the feminineness
of the boudoir (dimly lit), and the soft splendour of her gown, and behind all that, pervading
the house, the gay rumour of the party. And in front of them the window-panes, and beyond the
window-panes the stars in their orbits. Doubtless it was such influences which, despite several
degrees of frost outside, gave to Charlie Woodruff's thoughts an Italian, or Spanish, turn.
He said:

"Stephen ought to have this window turned into a French window, and build you a balcony. It
could easily be done. Just the view for a balcony. You can see Sneyd Lake from here." (You
could. People were skating on it.)

He did not add that you could see the Sneyd Golf Links from there, and vice versa. I doubt
if the idea occurred to him, but as he was an active member of the Sneyd Golf Club it would
certainly have presented itself to him in due season.

"What a lovely scheme!" Vera exclaimed enthusiastically.

It appealed to her. It appealed to all that was romantic in her bird-like soul. She did not
see the links; she did not see the lake; she just saw herself in exquisite frocks, lightly
lounging on the balcony in high summer, and dreaming of her own beauty.

"And have a striped awning," she said.

"Yes," he said. "Make Stephen do it."

"I will," she said.

At that moment Stephen came in, with his bald head and his forty years.

"I say!" he demanded. "What are you up to?"

"We were just watching the skaters," said Vera.

"And the wonders of the night," said Charlie, chuckling characteristically. He always laughed
at himself. He was a philosopher. He and Stephen had been fast friends from infancy.

"Well, you'd just better skate downstairs," said Stephen. (No romance in Stephen! He was netting
a couple of thousand a year out of the manufacture of toilet-sets, in all that smoke to the
north. How could you expect him to be romantic?)

"Charlie was saying how nice it would be for me to have a French window here, and a marble
balcony," Vera remarked. It had not taken her long to think of marble. "You must do it for
me, Steve."

"Bosh!" said Stephen. "That's just like you, Charlie. What an ass you are!"

"Oh, but you must!" said Vera, in that tone which meant business, and which also meant trouble
for Stephen.

"She's come," Stephen announced curtly, determined to put trouble off.

"Oh, has she?" cried Vera. "I thought you said she wouldn't."

"She hesitated, because she was afraid. But she's come after all," Stephen answered.

"What fun!" Vera murmured.

And ran off downstairs back again into the midst of the black coats and the white toilettes
and the holly-clad electricity of her Christmas gathering.

II

The news that she had come was all over the noisy house in a minute, and it had the astonishing
effect of producing what might roughly be described as a silence. It stopped the reckless waltzing
of the piano in the drawing-room; it stopped the cackle incident to cork-pool in the billiard-room;
it even stopped a good deal of the whispering under the Chinese lanterns beneath the stairs
and in the alcove at the top of the stairs. What it did not stop was the consumption of mince-pies
and claret-cup in the small breakfast-room; people mumbled about her between munches.

She, having been sustained with turkey and beer in the kitchen, was led by the backstairs up
to Vera's very boudoir, that being the only suitable room. And there she waited. She was a
woman of about forty-five; fat, unfair (in the physical sense), and untidy. Of her hands the
less said the better. She had probably never visited a professional coiffeur in her life. Her
form was straitly confined in an atrocious dress of linsey-woolsey, and she wore an apron that
was neither white nor black. Her boots were commodious. After her meal she was putting a hat-pin
to a purpose which hat-pins do not usually serve. Choose your own beef or mutton to be roasted if
you are particular. Season the vegetables to your taste if you prefer a particular sauce! But have
a single kitchen with a single fire and organize it as beautifully
as you are able to.

Why has woman's work never been of any account?

Why in every family are the mother and three or four servants obliged to spend so much time
at what pertains to cooking? Because those who want to emancipate mankind have not included woman
in their dream of emancipation, and consider it beneath their superior masculine dignity to
think "of those kitchen arrangements," which they have put on the
shoulders of that drudge-- woman.

To
emancipate woman, is not only to open the gates of the university, the law courts, or the parliaments
to her, for the "emancipated" woman will always throw her domestic toil on to another woman. To
emancipate woman is to free her from the brutalizing toil of kitchen and washhouse; it is to organize
your household in such a way as to enable her to rear her children, if she be so minded, while
still retaining sufficient leisure to take her share of social life.

It will come. As we have said, things are already improving. Only let us fully understand that
a revolution, intoxicated with the beautiful words, Liberty, Equality, Solidarity, would not
be a revolution if it maintained slavery at home. Half humanity subjected to the slavery of
the hearth would still have to rebel against the other half.

FOOTNOTE: [8] It seems that the Communists of Young Icaria had understood
the importance of a free choice in their daily relations apart from
work.

The ideal of religious Communists has always been to have meals in common; it is by meals in common
that early Christians manifested their adhesion to Christianity. Communion is still a vestige of it.
Young Icarians had given up this religious tradition. They dined in a common dining room, but
at small separate tables, at which they sat according to the attractions of the moment. The
Communists of Anama have each their house and dine at home, while
taking their provisions at will at the communal stores.

CHAPTER XI FREE AGREEMENT I Accustomed as we are by heredity prejudices
and our unsound education and training to represent ourselves the
beneficial hand of Government, legislation and magistracy everywhere,
we have come to believe that man would tear his fellow-man to pieces
like a wild beast the day the police took his eye off him; that absolute
chaos would come about if authority were overthrown during a revolution.

And with our eyes shut we pass by thousands and thousands of human groupings
which form themselves freely, without any intervention of the law,
and attain results infinitely superior to those achieved under governmental
tutelage.

If you open a daily paper you find that its pages are entirely devoted
to Government transactions and to political jobbery.

A man from another world, reading it, would believe that, with the
exception of the Stock Exchange transactions, nothing gets done in
Europe save by order of some master.

You find nothing in the paper about institutions that spring up,
grow up, and develop without ministerial prescription!

Nothing-- or almost nothing! Even where there is a heading, "Sundry Events" (Faits divers, a favorite column
in the French papers), it is because they are connected with the police. A family drama, an act of
rebellion, will only be mentioned if the police have appeared on the
scene. Three hundred and fifty million Europeans love or hate one another,
work, or live on their incomes; but, apart from literature, theatre,
or sport, their lives remain ignored by newspapers if Governments
have not intervened in it in some way or other.

It is even so with history. We know the least details of the life
of a king or of a parliament; all good and bad speeches pronounced
by the politicians have been preserved: "speeches that have never
had the least influence on the vote of a single member," as an old
parliamentarian said.

Royal visits, the good or bad humour of politicians, their jokes and intrigues, are all carefully
recorded for posterity. But we have the greatest difficulty to reconstitute a city of the Middle
Ages, to understand the mechanism of that immense commerce that was carried on between Hanseatic
cities, or to know how the city of Rouen built its cathedral.

If a scholar spends his life in studying these questions, his works remain unknown, and parliamentary histories--
that is to say, the defective ones, as they only treat of one side of social life-- multiply; they
are circulated, they are taught in schools. In this way we do not even perceive the prodigious
work, accomplished every day by spontaneous groups of men, which constitutes the chief work of
our century.

We therefore propose to point out some of these most striking manifestations, and to show how men,
as soon as their interests do not absolutely clash, act in concert, harmoniously, and perform collective
work of a very complex nature.

It is evident that in present society, based on individual property-- that is to say, on plunder,
and on a narrow-minded, and therefore foolish individualism-- facts of this kind are necessarily
limited; agreements are not always perfectly free, and often they have a mean, if not execrable
aim. But what concerns us is not to give examples which might be blindly followed, and which,
moreover, present society could not possibly give us. What we have to do is to show that, in
spite of the authoritarian individualism which stifles us, there remains in our life, taken
as a whole, a very great part in which we only act by free agreement; and that therefore it would be
much easier than is usually thought, to dispense with Government. In support of our view we have
already mentioned railways, and we will now return to them. We know that Europe has a system
of railways, over 175,000 miles long, and that on this network you
can nowadays travel from north to south, from east to west, from Madrid
to Petersburg, and from Calais to Constantinople, without delays,
without even changing carriages (when you travel by express).

More than that: a parcel deposited at a station will find its addressee
anywhere, in Turkey or in Central Asia, without more formality needed
for sending it than writing its destination on a bit of paper.

This result might have been obtained in two ways. A Napoleon, a Bismarck, or
some potentate having conquered Europe, would from Paris, Berlin,
or Rome, draw a railway map and regulate the hours of the trains. The
Russian Tsar Nicholas I. dreamt of such a power.

When he was shown rough drafts of railways between Moscow and Petersburg, he seized a ruler and
drew on the map of Russia a straight line between these two capitals, saying, "Here is the plan."
And the road was built in a straight line, filling in deep ravines, building bridges of a giddy
height, which had to be abandoned a few years later, after the railway
had cost about£ 120,000 to£ 150,000 per English mile.

This is one way, but happily things were managed differently. Railways were constructed piece by piece,
the pieces were joined together, and the hundred different companies, to whom these pieces
belonged, gradually came to an understanding concerning the arrival and departure of their trains,
and the running of carriages on their rails, from all countries, without unloading merchandise
as it passes from one network to another.

All this was done by free agreement, by exchange of letters and proposals,
and by congresses at which delegates met to discuss well specified
special points, and to come to an agreement about them, but not to
make laws.

After the congress was over, the delegates returned to their respective companies, not with a law,
but with the draft of a contract to be accepted or rejected. Of course difficulties were met in
the way. There were obstinate men who would not be convinced. But a common interest compelled
them to agree in the end, without invoking the help of armies against the refractory members.
This immense network of railways connected together, and the enormous traffic it has given rise to, no
doubt constitutes the most striking trait of the nineteenth century;
and it is the result of free agreement.

If somebody had foretold it eighty years ago, our grandfathers would
have thought him idiotic or mad.

They would have said: "Never will you be able to make the shareholders
of a hundred companies listen to reason! It is a Utopia, a fairy tale.
A central Government, with an'iron'dictator, can alone enforce it."

And the most interesting thing in this organization is, that there
is no European Central Government of Railways!

Nothing! No minister of railways, no dictator, not even a continental parliament, not even a directing
committee! Everything is done by free agreement. So we ask the believers in the State, who pretend
that "we can never do without a central Government, were it only for regulating the traffic," we
ask them: "But how do European railways manage without them? How do they continue to convey millions
of travellers and mountains of luggage across a continent?

If companies owning railways have been able to agree, why should railway workers, who would take
possession of railways, not agree likewise? And if the Petersburg-Warsaw
Company and that of Paris-Belfort can act in harmony, without giving themselves
the luxury of a common commander, why, in the midst of our societies,
consisting of groups of free workers, should we need a Government?"
II When we endeavour to prove by examples that even to-day, in spite
of the iniquitous organization of society as a whole, men, provided
their interests be not diametrically opposed, agree without the intervention
of authority, we do not ignore the objections that will be put forth.

All such examples have their defective side, because it is impossible to quote a single organization
exempt from the exploitation of the weak by the strong, the poor by the rich. This is why the Statists
will not fail to tell us with their wonted logic: "You see that the intervention of the State is necessary
to put an end to this exploitation!"

Only they forget the lessons of history; they do not tell us to what
extent the State itself has contributed towards the existing order
by creating proletarians and delivering them up to exploiters.

They forget to prove us that it is possible to put an end to exploitation
while the primal causes-- private capital and poverty, two-thirds
of which are artificially created by the State-- continue to exist.

When we speak of the accord established among the railway companies,
we expect them, the worshippers of the bourgeois State, to say to
us: "Do you not see how the railway companies oppress and ill-use
their employees and the travellers!

The only way is, that the State should intervene to protect the workers and the public!" But have
we not said and repeated over and over again, that as long as there
are capitalists, these abuses of power will be perpetuated?

It is precisely the State, the would-be benefactor, that has given to
the companies that monopoly and those rights upon us which they possess
to-day.

Has it not created concessions, guarantees? Has it not sent its soldiers
against railwaymen on strike?

And during the first trials (quite lately we saw it still in Russia),
has it not extended the privilege of the railway magnates as far as
to forbid the Press to mention railway accidents, so as not to depreciate
the shares it guaranteed?

Has it not favoured the monopoly which has anointed the Vanderbilts
and the Polyakoffs, the directors of the P. L. M., the C. P. R., the
St. Gothard, "the kings of our days"?

Therefore, if we give as an example the tacit agreement come to between
railway companies, it is by no means as an ideal of economical management,
nor even an ideal of technical organization.

It is to show that if capitalists, without any other aim than that of augmenting their dividends
at other people's expense, can exploit railways successfully without
establishing an International Department,-- societies of working men
will be able to do it just as well, and even better, without nominating
a Ministry of European railways.

Another objection is raised that is more serious at first sight. We
may be told that the agreement we speak of is not perfectly free, that the
large companies lay down the law to the small ones.

It might be mentioned, for example, that a certain rich German company,
supported by the State, compel travellers who go from Berlin to Bâle
to pass via Cologne and Frankfort, instead of taking the Leipzig route;
or that such a company carries goods a hundred and thirty miles in
a roundabout way (on a long distance) to favour its influential shareholders,
and thus ruins the secondary lines.

In the United States travellers and goods are sometimes compelled to travel impossibly circuitous
routes so that dollars may flow into the pocket of a Vanderbilt.

Our answer will be the same: As long as Capital exists, the Greater Capital will oppress the lesser.
But oppression does not result from Capital only. It is also owing
to the support given them by the State, to monopoly created by the
State in their favour, that the large companies oppress the small
ones.

The early English and French Socialists have shown long since how
English legislation did all in its power to ruin the small industries,
drive the peasant to poverty, and deliver over to wealthy industrial
employers battalions of men, compelled to work for no matter what
salary.

Railway legislation did exactly the same. Strategic lines, subsidized
lines, companies which received the International Mail monopoly, everything
was brought into play to forward the interests of wealthy financiers. When Rothschild,
creditor to all European States, puts capital in a railway, his faithful
subjects, the ministers, will do their best to make him earn more.

In the United States, in the Democracy that authoritarians hold up to us as an ideal, the most scandalous
fraudulency has crept into everything that concerns railroads. Thus, if a company ruins its competitors
by cheap fares, it is often enabled to do so because it is reimbursed by land given to it
by the State for a gratuity.

Documents recently published concerning the American wheat trade have fully shown up the part
played by the State in the exploitation of the weak by the strong. Here, too, the power of accumulated capital
has increased tenfold and a hundredfold by means of State help. So that, when we see syndicates of railway
companies (a product of free agreement) succeeding in protecting their small companies against
big ones, we are astonished at the intrinsic force of free agreement
that can hold its own against all-powerful Capital favoured by the
State.

It is a fact that little companies exist, in spite of the State's partiality. If in France, land of
centralization, we only see five or six large companies, there are more than a hundred and ten in Great
Britain who agree remarkably well, and who are certainly better organized
for the rapid transit of travellers and goods than the French and
German companies.

Moreover, that is not the question. Large Capital, favoured by the State, can always, if it be
to its advantage, crush the lesser one. What is of importance to us is this: The agreement between
hundreds of capitalist companies to whom the railways of Europe belong, was established without intervention
of a central government to lay down the law to the divers societies; it has subsisted by means
of congresses composed of delegates, who discuss among themselves, and submit proposals, not laws,
to their constituents. It is a new principle that differs completely from all governmental principle,
monarchical or republican, absolute or parliamentarian. It is an innovation that has been timidly
introduced into the customs of Europe, but has come to stay. III How often have we not read in
the writings of State-loving Socialists: "Who, then, will undertake
the regulation of canal traffic in the future society?

Should it enter the mind of one of your Anarchist'comrades'to put his barge across a canal and
obstruct thousands of boats, who will force him to reason?" Let us confess the supposition to be
somewhat fanciful. Still, it might be said, for instance: "Should a certain commune, or a group
of communes, want to make their barges pass before others, they might perhaps block the canal in order
to carry stones, while wheat, needed in another commune, would have to stand by. Who, then, would
regulate the traffic if not the Government?"

But real life has again demonstrated that Government can be very well dispensed with here as elsewhere.
Free agreement, free organization, replace that noxious and costly system, and do better. We know
what canals mean to Holland. They are its highways. We also know how much traffic there is on the canals.
What is carried along our highroads and railroads is transported on canal-boats in Holland. There
you could find cause to fight, in order to make your boats pass before others. There the Government
might really interfere to keep the traffic in order. Yet it is not
so.

The Dutch settled matters in a more practical way, long ago, by founding
guilds, or syndicates of boatmen. These were free associations sprung
from the very needs of navigation.

The right of way for the boats was adjusted by the order of inscription in a navigation register;
they had to follow one another in turn. Nobody was allowed to get ahead of the others under pain
of being excluded from the guild. They were also greatly impressed
by his gentleness with Goldie and by his intelligent interest in serious questions.

One day Miss Ebag said timidly to her sister: "It's just six months to-day."

"What do you mean, sister?" asked Mrs Ebag, self-consciously.

"Since Mr Ullman came."

"So it is!" said Mrs Ebag, who was just as well aware of the date as the spinster was aware of it.

They said no more. The position was the least bit delicate. Carl had found no lodging. He did
not offer to go. They did not want him to go. He did not offer to pay. And really he cost them
nothing except laundry, whisky and fussing. How could they suggest that he should pay? He lived
amidst them like a beautiful mystery, and all were seemingly content. Carl was probably saving
the whole of his salary, for he never bought clothes and he did not smoke. The ladies Ebag
simply did what they liked about hymn-tunes.

III

You would have thought that no outsider would find a word to say, and you would have been mistaken.
The fact that Mrs Ebag was two years older than Miss and Miss two years younger than Mrs Ebag;
the fact that old Caiaphas was, for strong reasons, always in the house; the fact that the
ladies were notorious cat-idolaters; the fact that the reputation of the Ebag family was and
had ever been spotless; the fact that the Ebag family had given the apse and practically created
the entire church; all these facts added together did not prevent the outsider from finding
a word to say.

At first words were not said; but looks were looked, and coughs were coughed. Then someone,
strolling into the church of a morning while Carl Ullman was practising, saw Miss Ebag sitting
in silent ecstasy in a corner. And a few mornings later the same someone, whose curiosity had
been excited, veritably saw Mrs Ebag in the organ-loft with Carl Ullman, but no sign of Miss
Ebag. It was at this juncture that words began to be said.

Words! Not complete sentences! The sentences were never finished. "Of course, it's no affair
of mine, but--" "I wonder that people like the Ebags should--" "Not that I should ever dream
of hinting that--" "First one and then the other--well!" "I'm sure that if either Mrs or Miss
Ebag had the slightest idea they'd at once--" And so on. Intangible gossamer criticism, floating
in the air!

IV

One evening--it was precisely the first of June--when a thunderstorm was blowing up from the
south-west, and scattering the smoke of the Five Towns to the four corners of the world, and
making the weathercock of the house of the Ebags creak, the ladies Ebag and Carl Ullman sat
together as usual in the drawing-room. The French window was open, but banged to at intervals.
Carl Ullman had played the piano and the ladies Ebag--Mrs Ebag, somewhat comfortably stout
and Miss Ebag spare--were talking very well and sensibly about the influence of music on character.
They invariably chose such subjects for conversation. Carl was chiefly silent, but now and
then, after a sip of whisky, he would say "Yes" with impressiveness and stare gloomily out
of the darkening window. The ladies Ebag had a remarkable example of the influence of music
on character in the person of Edith Ebag. It appeared that Edith would never play anything
but waltzes--Waldteufel's for choice--and that the foolish frivolity of her flyaway character
was a direct consequence of this habit. This member of the Society may insert in its review a
one-page note summarizing his observations; another may publish therein
an extensive work, the results of long years of study; while others
will confine themselves to consulting the review as a starting-point
for further research.

It does not matter: all these authors and readers are associated for the production of works in which
all of them take an interest.

It is true that a learned society, like the individual author, goes to a printing office where
workmen are engaged to do the printing.

Nowadays, those who belong to the learned societies despise manual labour which indeed is carried
on under very bad conditions; but a community which would give a generous philosophic and
scientific education to all its members, would know how to organize manual labour in such
a way that it would be the pride of humanity.

Its learned societies would become associations of explorers, lovers of science, and workers-- all
knowing a manual trade and all interested in science.

If, for example, the Society is studying geology, all will contribute to the exploration of
the earth's strata; each member will take his share in research,
and ten thousand observers, where we have now only a hundred, will
do more in a year than we can do in twenty years.

And when their works are to be published, ten thousand men and women,
skilled in different trades, will be ready to draw maps, engrave designs,
compose, and print the books.

With gladness will they give their leisure-- in summer to exploration,
in winter to indoor work.

And when their works appear, they will find not only a hundred, but
ten thousand readers interested in their common work.

This is the direction in which progress is already moving.

Even to-day, when England felt the need of a complete dictionary
of the English language, the birth of a Littré, who would devote his
life to this work, was not waited for.

Volunteers were appealed to, and a thousand men offered their services, spontaneously and gratuitously,
to ransack the libraries, to take notes, and to accomplish in a few years a work which one
man could not complete in his lifetime. In all branches of human intelligence the same spirit
is breaking forth, and we should have a very limited knowledge of humanity could we not guess that
the future is announcing itself in such tentative co-operation, which
is gradually taking the place of individual work.

For this dictionary to be a really collective work, it would have
been necessary that many volunteer authors, printers, and printers'readers
should have worked in common; but something in this direction is done
already in the Socialist Press, which offers us examples of manual
and intellectual work combined.

It happens in our newspapers that a Socialist author composes in
lead his own article.

True, such attempts are rare, but they indicate in which direction
evolution is going.

They show the road of liberty. In future, when a man will have something useful to say-- a word
that goes beyond the thoughts of his century, he will not have to look for an editor who might advance
the necessary capital.

He will look for collaborators among those who know the printing trade, and who approve the idea
of his new work. Together they will publish the new book or journal.

Literature and journalism will cease to be a means of money-making
and living at the cost of others.

But is there any one who knows literature and journalism from within, and who does not ardently
desire that literature should at last be able to free itself from those who formerly protected
it, and who now exploit it, and from the multitude, which, with rare exceptions, pays for
it in proportion to its mediocrity, or to the ease with which it adapts itself to the bad taste
o£ the greater number?

Letters and science will only take their proper place in the work of human development when,
freed from all mercenary bondage, they will be exclusively cultivated by those who love them,
and for those who love them.

IV Literature, science, and art must be cultivated by free men.

Only on this condition will they succeed in emancipating themselves
from the yoke of the State, of Capital, and of the bourgeois mediocrity
which stifles them.

What means has the scientist of to-day to make researches that interest him? Should he ask help
of the State, which can only be given to one candidate in a hundred,
and which only he may obtain who promises ostensibly to keep to the
beaten track?

Let us remember how the Academy of Sciences of France repudiated Darwin, how the Academy of St.
Petersburg treated Mendeléeff with contempt, and how the Royal Society of London refused to
publish Joule's paper, in which he determined the mechanical equivalent
of heat, finding it "unscientific."

[7] It was why all great researches, all discoveries revolutionizing science, have been made
outside academies and universities, either by men rich enough to remain independent, like Darwin
and Lyell, or by men who undermined their health by working in poverty, and often in great
straits, losing endless time for want of a laboratory, and unable
to procure the instruments or books necessary to continue their researches,
but persevering against hope, and often dying before they had reached
the end in view.

Their name is legion. Altogether, the system of help granted by the State
is so bad that science has always endeavoured to emancipate itself from
it. For this very reason there are thousands of learned societies
organized and maintained by volunteers in Europe and America,-- some
having developed to such a degree that all the resources of subventioned
societies, and all the wealth of millionaires, would not buy their treasures.
No governmental institution is as rich as the Zoological Society of London,
which is supported by voluntary contributions.

It does not buy the animals which in thousands people its gardens:
they are sent by other societies and by collectors of the entire
world.

The Zoological Society of Bombay will send an elephant as a gift; another time a hippopotamus or a
rhinoceros is offered by Egyptian naturalists.

And these magnificent presents are pouring in every day, arriving from all quarters of the globe-- birds,
reptiles, collections of insects, etc. Such consignments often comprise
animals that could not be bought for all the gold in the world; thus
a traveller who has captured an animal at life's peril, and now loves
it as he would love a child, will give it to the Society because he
is sure it will be cared for.

The entrance fee paid by visitors, and they are numberless, suffices
for the maintenance of that immense institution.

What is defective in the Zoological Society of London, and in other kindred societies, is that the
member's fee cannot be paid in work; that the keepers and numerous employes of this large institution
are not recognized as members of the Society, while many have no other incentive to joining the
society than to put the cabalistic letters F. Z. S (Fellow of the Zoological Society) on their cards.
In a word, what is needed is a more perfect co-operation. We may say the same about inventors, that
we have said of scientists. Who does not know what sufferings nearly all
great inventions have cost? Sleepless nights, families deprived of bread,
want of tools and materials for experiments, this is the history
of nearly all those who have enriched industry with inventions which
are the truly legitimate pride of our civilization.

But what are we to do to alter the conditions that everybody is convinced
are bad? Patents have been tried, and we know with what results.

The inventor sells his patent for a few pounds, and the man who has
only lent the capital pockets the enormous profits often resulting
from the invention. Besides, patents isolate the inventor. They compel
him to keep secret his researches which therefore end in failure;
whereas the simplest suggestion, coming from a brain less absorbed
in the fundamental idea, sometimes suffices to fertilize the invention
and make it practical.

Like all State control, patents hamper the progress of industry.

Thought being incapable of being patented, patents are a crying injustice in theory, and in
practice they result in one of the great obstacles to the rapid development
of invention.

What is needed to promote the spirit of invention is, first of all, the awakening of thought,
the boldness of conception, which our entire education causes to languish; it is the spreading
of a scientific education, which would increase the number of inquirers
a hundredfold; it is faith that humanity is going to take a step forward,
because it is enthusiasm, the hope of doing good, that has inspired
all the great inventors.

The Social Revolution alone can give this impulse to thought, this boldness,
this knowledge, this conviction of working for all.

Then we shall have vast institutes supplied with motor-power and
tools of all sorts, immense industrial laboratories open to all inquirers,
where men will be able to work out their dreams, after having acquitted
themselves of their duty towards society; machinery palaces where
they will spend their five or six hours of leisure; where they will
make their experiments; where they will find other comrades, experts
in other branches of industry, likewise coming to study some difficult
problem, and therefore able to help and enlighten each other,-- the
encounter of their ideas and experience causing the longed-for solution
to be found.

And yet again, this is no dream. Solanóy Gorodók, in Petersburg, has already partially realized it
as regards technical matters. It is a factory well furnished with tools and free to all; tools
and motor-power are supplied gratis, only metals and wood are charged
for at cost price. Unfortunately workmen only go there at night when
worn out by ten hours'labour in the workshop. Moreover, they carefully
hide their inventions from each other, as they are hampered by patents
and Capitalism-- that bane of present society, that stumbling-block
in the path of intellectual and moral progress.

V And what about art? From all sides we hear lamentations about the decadence of art. We are,
indeed, far behind the great masters of the Renaissance. The technicalities of art have recently
made great progress; thousands of people gifted with a certain amount
of talent cultivate every branch, but art seems to fly from civilization!

Technicalities make headway, but inspiration frequents artists'studios less than ever. Where,
indeed, should it come from? Only a grand idea can inspire art. Art is in our ideal synonymous
with creation, it must look ahead; but save a few rare, very rare exceptions, the professional
artist remains too philistine to perceive new horizons. Moreover, this inspiration cannot
come from books; it must be drawn from life, and present society cannot arouse it. Raphael
and Murillo painted at a time when the search of a new ideal could
be pursued while retaining the old religious traditions.

They
painted to decorate churches which themselves represented the pious work of several generations of
a given city. The basilic with its mysterious aspect, its grandeur, was connected with the life itself
of the city, and could inspire a painter. He worked for a popular monument; he spoke to his
fellow-citizens, and in return he received inspiration; he appealed to the multitude in the
same way as did the nave, the pillars, the stained windows, the statues, and the carved doors. Nowadays
the greatest honour a painter can aspire to is to see his canvas,
framed in gilded wood, hung in a museum, a sort of old curiosity shop,
where you see, as in the Prado, Murillo's Ascension next to a beggar
of Velasquez and the dogs of Philip II.

Poor Velasquez and poor Murillo! Poor Greek statues which lived in the Acropolis of their cities,
and are now stifled beneath the red cloth hangings of the Louvre!

When a Greek sculptor chiseled his marble he endeavored to express the spirit and heart of the
city. All its passions, all its traditions of glory, were to live
again in the work.

But to-day the united city has ceased to exist; there is no more communion of ideas. The town is
a chance agglomeration of people who do not know one another, who
have no common interest, save that of enriching themselves at the
expense of one another. The fatherland does not exist.... What fatherland
can the international banker and the rag-picker have in common?

Only when cities, territories, nations, or groups of nations, will
have renewed their harmonious life, will art be able to draw its inspiration
from ideals held in common.

Then will the architect conceive the city's monument which will no longer be a temple, a prison, or
a fortress; then will the painter, the sculptor, the carver, the ornament-worker know where to
put their canvases, their statues, and their decoration; deriving their power of execution
from the same vital source, and gloriously marching all together towards the future. But till
then art can only vegetate.

The best canvases of modern artists are those that represent nature,
villages, valleys, the sea with its dangers, the mountain with its
splendours.

But how can the painter express the poetry of work in the fields if he has only contemplated it,
imagined it, if he has never delighted in it himself?

If he only knows it as a bird of passage knows the country he soars
over in his migrations?

If, in the vigour of early youth, he has not followed the plough at dawn, and enjoyed mowing grass with
a large sweep of the scythe next to hardy haymakers vying in energy with lively young girls
who fill the air with their songs? The love of the soil and of what grows on it is not acquired
by sketching with a paint-brush-- it is only in its service; and without loving it, how paint
it? This is why all that the best painters have produced in this direction is still so imperfect,
not true to life, nearly always merely sentimental. There is no strength in it. You must have seen
a sunset when returning from work. You must have been a peasant among peasants to keep the splendour
of it in your eye. You must have been at sea with fishermen at all hours of the day and night,
have fished yourself, struggled with the waves, faced the storm,
and after rough work experienced the joy of hauling a heavy net,
or the disappointment of seeing it empty, to understand the poetry
of fishing.

You must have spent time in a factory, known the fatigues and the joys of creative work, forged metals
by the vivid light of a blast furnace, have felt the life in a machine,
to understand the power of man and to express it in a work of art.

You must, in fact, be permeated with popular feelings, to describe
them.

Besides, the works of future artists who will have lived the life
of the people, like the great artists of the past, will not be destined
for sale.

They will be an integral part of a living whole that would not be
complete without them, any more than they would be complete without
it.

Men will go to the artist's own city to gaze at his work, and the spirited and serene beauty
of such creations will produce its beneficial effect on heart and mind. Art, in order to develop,
must be bound up with industry by a thousand intermediate degrees, blended, so to say, as Ruskin
and the great Socialist poet Morris have proved so often and so well. Everything that surrounds
man, in the street, in the interior and exterior of public monuments, must be of a pure artistic form.
But this can only be realized in a society in which all enjoy comfort and leisure. Then only shall we
see art associations, of which each member will find room for his capacity; for art cannot dispense
with an infinity of purely manual and technical supplementary works. These artistic associations
will undertake to embellish the houses of their members, as those
kind volunteers, the young painters of Edinburgh, did in decorating
the walls and ceilings of the great hospital for the poor in their
city.

A painter or sculptor who has produced a work of personal feeling
will offer it to the woman he loves, or to a friend.

Executed for love's sake,-- will his work, inspired by love, be inferior
to the art that to-day satisfies the vanity of the philistine, because
it has cost much money?

The same will be done as regards all pleasures not comprised in
the necessaries of life. He who wishes for a grand piano will enter the
association of musical instrument makers.

And by giving the association part of his half-days'leisure, he will
soon possess the piano of his dreams.

If he is fond of astronomical studies he will join the association of astronomers, with its philosophers,
its observers, its calculators, with its artists in astronomical
instruments, its scientists and amateurs, and he will have the telescope
he desires by taking his share of the associated work, for it is especially
the rough work that is needed in an astronomical observatory-- bricklayer's,
carpenter's, founder's, mechanic's work, the last touch being given
to the instrument of precision by the artist.

In short, the five or seven hours a day which each will have at his disposal, after having consecrated
several hours to the production of necessities, would amply suffice to satisfy all longings for luxury,
however varied. Thousands of associations would undertake to supply them. What is now the privilege
of an insignificant minority would be accessible to all.

Luxury, ceasing to be a foolish and ostentatious display of the bourgeois class, would become an
artistic pleasure. Everyone would be the happier for it. In collective work, performed with a
light heart to attain a desired end, a book, a work of art, or an object
of luxury, each will find an incentive and the necessary relaxation
that makes life pleasant. In working to put an end to the division between
master and slave, we work for the happiness of both, for the happiness
of humanity. If he wandered solitary and
moody about the tennis-court now, it was because he had a great deal on his mind besides business.
He had his daughter's future on his mind.

A servant with apron-strings waving like flags in the breeze came from the house with a large
loaded tea-tray, and deposited it on a wicker table on the small lawn at the end of the ash
court. The rivals were reclining in deck chairs close to the table; the Object of Desire, all
in starched white, stood over the table and with quick delicious movements dropped sugar and
poured milk into tinkling porcelain.

"Now, father," she called briefly, without looking up, as she seized the teapot.

He approached, gazing thoughtfully at the group. Yes, he was worried. And everyone was secretly
worried. The situation was exceedingly delicate, fragile, breakable. Their aim is execrable. It is
the maintenance of the Empire. But what concerns us, is to point out that, in spite of military organization
being the "Great Mission of the State," success in this branch is the more certain the more
it is left to the free agreement of groups and to the free initiative
of individuals.

Even in matters pertaining to war, free agreement is thus appealed to; and to further prove
our assertion let us mention the Volunteer Topographers'Corps of Switzerland who study in detail the
mountain passages, the Aeroplane Corps of France, the three hundred thousand British volunteers,
the British National Artillery Association, and the Society, now in course of organization, for
the defence of England's coasts, as well as the appeals made to the commercial fleet, the Bicyclists'Corps,
and the new organizations of private motorcars and steam launches.

Everywhere the State is abdicating and abandoning its holy functions to private individuals. Everywhere
free organization trespasses on its domain. And yet, the facts we have quoted give us only a glimpse
of what free government has in store for us in the future when there
will be no more State.

CHAPTER
XII OBJECTIONS I Let us now examine the principal objections put
forth against Communism.

Most of them are evidently caused by a simple misunderstanding, yet
they raise important questions and merit our attention.

It is not for us to answer the objections raised by authoritarian
Communism-- we ourselves hold with them.

Civilized nations have suffered too much in the long, hard struggle for the emancipation of the individual,
to disown their past work and to tolerate a Government that would make
itself felt in the smallest details of a citizen's life, even if
that Government had no other aim than the good of the community.

Should an authoritarian Socialist society ever succeed in establishing
itself, it could not last; general discontent would soon force it
to break up, or to reorganize itself on principles of liberty.

It is of an Anarchist-Communist society we are about to speak, a society that recognizes the absolute
liberty of the individual, that does not admit of any authority, and makes use of no compulsion
to drive men to work. Limiting our studies to the economic side of the question, let us see if such
a society, composed of men as they are to-day, neither better nor worse, neither more nor less industrious,
would have a chance of successful development. The objection is known. "If the existence of each
is guaranteed, and if the necessity of earning wages does not compel
men to work, nobody will work.

Every man will lay the burden of his work on another if he is not forced to do it himself." Let us first
note the incredible levity with which this objection is raised, without even realizing that the
real question raised by this objection is merely to know, on the one hand, whether you effectively
obtain by wage-work, the results that are said to be obtained, and, on the other hand, whether
voluntary work is not already now more productive than work stimulated
by wages.

A question which, to be dealt with properly, would require a serious
study.

But whereas in exact sciences men give their opinion on subjects infinitely less important and
less complicated after serious research, after carefully collecting and analyzing facts--
on this question they will pronounce judgment without appeal, resting satisfied with any one particular
event, such as, for example, the want of success of some communist association in America.
They act like the barrister who does not see in the counsel for the opposite side a representative
of a cause, or an opinion contrary to his own, but a simple nuisance,--
an adversary in an oratorical debate; and if he be lucky enough to
find a repartee, does not otherwise care to justify his cause.

Therefore the study of this essential basis of all Political Economy,
the study of the most favourable conditions for giving society the
greatest amount of useful products with the least waste of human energy,
does not advance.

People either limit themselves to repeating commonplace assertions,
or else they pretend ignorance of our assertions. What is most striking
in this levity is that even in capitalist Political Economy you already
find a few writers compelled by facts to doubt the axiom put forth
by the founders of their science, that the threat of hunger is man's
best stimulant for productive work.

They begin to perceive that in production a certain collective element is introduced, which has been
too much neglected up till now, and which might be more important than personal
gain. The inferior quality of wage-work, the terrible waste of human
energy in modern agricultural and industrial labour, the ever-growing
quantity of pleasure-seekers, who shift their burden on to others'shoulders,
the absence of a certain animation in production that is becoming
more and more apparent; all this is beginning to preoccupy the economists
of the "classical" school.

Some of them ask themselves if they have not got on the wrong track: if the imaginary evil being, that
was supposed to be tempted exclusively by a bait of lucre or wages,
really exists.

This heresy penetrates even into universities; it is found in books
of orthodox economy.

But this does not prevent a great many Socialist reformers from remaining partisans of individual
remuneration, and defending the old citadel of wagedom, notwithstanding that it is being delivered
over stone by stone to the assailants by its former defenders. They fear that without compulsion
the masses will not work. But during our own lifetime, have we not heard the same fears expressed
twice? Once, by the anti-abolitionists in America before the emancipation of the Negroes, and, for a
second time, by the Russian nobility before the liberation of the serfs?
"Without the whip the Negro will not work," said the anti-abolitionist.
"Free from their master's supervision the serfs will leave the fields
uncultivated," said the Russian serf-owners. It was the refrain of
the French noblemen in 1789, the refrain of the Middle Ages, a refrain
as old as the world, and we shall hear it every time there is a question
of sweeping away an injustice.

And each time actual facts give it the lie. The liberated peasant of
1792 ploughed with an eager energy, unknown to his ancestors; the emancipated
Negro works more than his fathers; and the Russian peasant, after
having honoured the honeymoon of his emancipation by celebrating Fridays
as well as Sundays, has taken up work with an eagerness proportionate
to the completeness of his liberation.

There, where the soil is his, he works desperately; that is the exact
word for it.

The anti-abolitionist refrain can be of value to slave-owners; as to the slaves themselves, they
know what it is worth, as they know its motive. Moreover, who but the economists themselves taught
us that while a wage-earner's work is very often indifferent, an
intense and productive work is only obtained from a man who sees his
wealth increase in proportion to his efforts?

All hymns sung in honour of private property can be reduced to this
axiom.

For it is remarkable that when economists, wishing to celebrate the blessings of property,
show us how an unproductive, marshy, or stony soil is clothed with rich harvests when cultivated
by the peasant proprietor, they in nowise prove their thesis in favour of private property. By admitting
that the only guarantee not to be robbed of the fruits of your labour is to possess the instruments
of labour-- which is true-- the economists only prove that man really produces most when he works
in freedom, when he has a certain choice in his occupations, when he has no overseer to impede him, and
lastly, when he sees his work bringing in a profit to him and to others who work like him, but
bringing in little to idlers. Nothing else can be deducted from their argumentation, and this is what
we maintain ourselves. As to the form of possession of the instruments
of labour, the economists only mention it indirectly in their demonstration,
as a guarantee to the cultivator that he shall not be robbed of the profits
of his yield nor of his improvements.

Besides, in support of their thesis in favour of private property against all other forms of possession,
should not the economists demonstrate that under the form of communal property land never
produces such rich harvests as when the possession is private?

But this they could not prove; in fact, it is the contrary that has been observed. Take for example
a commune in the canton of Vaud, in the winter time, when all the men of the village go to
fell wood in the forest, which belongs to them all. It is precisely during these festivals of labour
that the greatest ardour for work and the most considerable display
of human energy are apparent.

No salaried labour, no effort of a private owner can bear comparison
with it. Or let us take a Russian village, when all its inhabitants
mow a field belonging to the commune, or farmed by it. There you
will see what man can produce when he works in common for communal
production.

Comrades vie with one another in cutting the widest swathe, women bestir
themselves in their wake so as not to be distanced by the mowers. It is a
festival of labour, in which a hundred people accomplish in a few
hours a work that would not have been finished in a few days had
they worked separately. What a miserable contrast compared to them
is offered by the work of the isolated owner! In fact, we might quote scores
of examples among the pioneers of America, in Swiss, German, Russian,
and in certain French villages; or the work done in Russia by gangs
(artels) of masons, carpenters, boatmen, fishermen, etc., who undertake
a task and divide the produce or the remuneration among themselves
without it passing through an intermediary of middlemen; or else the
amount of work I saw performed in English ship-yards when the remuneration
was paid on the same principle.

We could also mention the great communal hunts of nomadic tribes,
and an infinite number of successful collective enterprises.

And
in every case we could show the unquestionable superiority of communal
work compared to that of the wage-earner or the isolated private
owner. Well-being-- that is to say, the satisfaction of physical, artistic,
and moral needs, has always been the most powerful stimulant to work.

And where a hireling hardly succeeds to produce the bare necessities
with difficulty, a free worker, who sees ease and luxury increasing for him
and for others in proportion to his efforts, spends infinitely far
more energy and intelligence, and obtains products in a far greater
abundance.

The one feels riveted to misery, the other hopes for ease and luxury
in the future.

In this lies the whole secret. Therefore a society aiming at the well-being
of all, and at the possibility of all enjoying life in all its manifestations,
will give voluntary work, which will be infinitely superior and yield
far more than work has produced up till now under the goad of slavery,
serfdom, or wagedom.

II Nowadays, whoever can load on others his share of labour indispensable to existence does so,
and it is believed that it will always be so.

Now, work indispensable to existence is essentially manual. We may be
artists or scientists; but none of us can do without things obtained
by manual work-- bread, clothes, roads, ships, light, heat, etc. And,
moreover, however highly artistic or however subtly metaphysical are
our pleasures, they all depend on manual labour.

And it is precisely this labour-- the basis of life-- that everyone tries to avoid. We understand
perfectly well that it must be so nowadays. Because, to do manual work now, means in reality to shut yourself
up for ten or twelve hours a day in an unhealthy workshop, and to remain chained to the same
task for twenty or thirty years, and maybe for your whole life. It means to be doomed to a paltry
wage, to the uncertainty of the morrow, to want of work, often to
destitution, more often than not to death in a hospital, after having
worked forty years to feed, clothe, amuse, and instruct others than
yourself and your children.

It means to bear the stamp of inferiority all your life; because,
whatever the politicians tell us, the manual worker is always considered
inferior to the brain worker, and the one who has toiled ten hours
in a workshop has not the time, and still less the means, to give
himself the high delights of science and art, nor even to prepare
himself to appreciate them; he must be content with the crumbs from
the table of privileged persons.

We understand that under these conditions manual labour is considered a curse of fate. We understand
that all men have but one dream-- that of emerging from, or enabling
their children to emerge from this inferior state; to create for themselves
an "independent" position, which means what?-- To also live by other
men's work! As long as there will be a class of manual workers and a
class of "brain" workers, black hands and white hands, it will be thus. What
interest, in fact, can this depressing work have for the worker,
when he knows that the fate awaiting him from the cradle to the grave
will be to live in mediocrity, poverty, and insecurity of the morrow?

Therefore, when we see the immense majority of men take up their wretched task every morning, we feel
surprised at their perseverance, at their zeal for work, at the habit that enables them, like machines
blindly obeying an impetus given, to lead this life of misery without
hope for the morrow; without foreseeing ever so vaguely that some
day they, or at least their children, will be part of a humanity rich
in all the treasures of a bountiful nature, in all the enjoyments
of knowledge, scientific and artistic creation, reserved to-day to
a few privileged favourites.

It is precisely to put an end to this separation between manual and brain work that we want to
abolish wagedom, that we want the Social Revolution.

Then work will no longer appear a curse of fate: it will become what
it should be-- the free exercise of all the faculties of man. Moreover,
it is time to submit to a serious analysis this legend about superior
work, supposed to be obtained under the lash of wagedom. It would be sufficient
to visit, not the model factory and workshop that we find now and
again, but a number of the ordinary factories, to conceive the immense
waste of human energy that characterizes modern industry.

For one factory more or less rationally organized, there are a hundred
or more which waste man's labour, without any more substantial motive
than that of perhaps bringing in a few pounds more per day to the
employer.

Here you see youths from twenty to twenty-five years of age, sitting all day long on a bench,
their chests sunken in, feverishly shaking their heads and bodies, to tie, with the speed of conjurers,
the two ends of worthless scraps of cotton, the refuse of the lace-looms.
What progeny will these trembling and rickety bodies bequeath to
their country?

"But they occupy so little room in the factory, and each of them
brings me in sixpence net every day," will say the employer.

In an immense London factory we saw girls, bald at seventeen from carrying trays of matches
on their heads from one room to another, when the simplest machine
could wheel the matches to their tables.

But "It costs so little, the work of women who have no special trade!

Why should we use a machine? When these can do no more, they will be
easily replaced, there are so many of them in the street!" On the steps
of a mansion on an icy night you will find a bare-footed child asleep, with
its bundle of papers in its arms... child-labour costs so little
that it may be well employed, every evening, to sell tenpenny-worth
of papers, of which the poor boy will receive a penny, or a penny
halfpenny.

And continually in all big cities you may see robust men tramping
about who have been out of work for months, while their daughters
grow pale in the overheated vapours of the workshops for dressing
stuffs, and their sons are filling blacking-pots by hand, or spend
those years during which they ought to have learned a trade, in carrying
about baskets for a greengrocer, and at the age of eighteen or twenty
become regular unemployed.

A proposal open to moral objections! But when you are in the state that Ralph Martin was in,
and have experienced what he had just experienced, your out-look upon morals is apt to be disturbed.

IV

"Young lady," Balsamo was saying. "Rest assured that I have not taken five shillings from you
for nothing. Your lover has a wart on his chin."

Daintiness itself sat in front of him, with her little porcelain hands lying on the black cushion.
And daintiness was astonished into withdrawing those hands.

"Please keep your hands still," said Balsamo, firmly, and proceeded: "But you have another
lover, older, who has recently come into your life. Fair, tall. A successful man who will always
be successful. Is it not so?"

"Yes," a little voice muttered.

"You can't make up your mind between them? Answer me."

"No."

"And you wish to learn the future. I will tell you--you will marry the fair man. That is your
destiny. And you will be very happy. You will soon perceive the bad qualities of the one with
the wart. He is a wicked man. I need not urge you to avoid him. You will do so."

"A bad man!"

"A bad man. You see there are two sovereigns lying here. That man has actually tried to bribe
me to influence you in his favour?"

"Ralph?"

"Since you mention his Christian name, I will mention his surname. It is written here. Martin."

"He can't have--possibly--"

Balsamo strode with offended pride to the portière, and pulled it away, revealing Mr Ralph
Martin, who for the second time that afternoon knew not what to say or to do.

"I tell you--" Ralph began, as red as fire.

"Silence, sir! Let this teach you not to try to corrupt an honest professional man! Surely
I had amply convinced you of my powers! Take your miserable money!" He offered the miserable
money to Ralph, who stuck his hands in his pockets, whereupon Balsamo flung the miserable money
violently on to the floor.

A deplorable scene followed, in which the presence of Balsamo did not prevent Florence Bostock
from conveying clearly to Ralph what she thought of him. They spoke before Balsamo quite freely,
as two people will discuss maladies before a doctor. Ralph departed first; then Florence. Then
Balsamo gathered up the sovereigns. He had honestly earned Adam's fiver, and since Ralph had
refused the two pounds--"I have seen their hands," said Balsamo the next day to Adam Tellwright.
"All is clear. In a month you will be engaged to her."

"A month?"

"A month. I regret that I had a painful scene with your rival. But of course professional etiquette
prevents me from speaking of that. Let me repeat, in a month you will be engaged to her."

This prophecy came true. Adam Tellwright, however, did not marry Florence Bostock. One evening,
in a secluded corner at a dance, Ralph Martin, without warning, threw his arms angrily, brutally,
instinctively round Florence's neck and kissed her. It was wrong of him. But he conquered her.
Love is like that. It hides for years, and then pops out, and won't be denied. Florence's engagement
to Adam was broken. She married Ralph. She knew she was marrying a strange, dark-minded man
of uncertain temper, but she married him.

As for the unimpeachable Adam, he was left with nothing but the uneasy fear that he was doomed
to die at fifty-two. His wife (for he got one, and a good one) soon cured him of that.

THE LONG-LOST UNCLE

On a recent visit to the Five Towns I was sitting with my old schoolmaster, who, by the way,
is much younger than I am after all, in the bow window of a house overlooking that great thoroughfare,
Trafalgar Road, Bursley, when a pretty woman of twenty-eight or so passed down the street.
Now the Five Towns contains more pretty women to the square mile than any other district in
England (and this statement I am prepared to support by either sword or pistol). But do you
suppose that the frequency of pretty women in Hanbridge, Bursley, Knype, Longshaw and Turnhill
makes them any the less remarked? Not a bit of it. Human nature is such that even if a man
should meet forty pretty women in a walk along Trafalgar Road from Bursley to Hanbridge, he
will remark them all separately, and feel exactly forty thrills. Consequently my ever-youthful
schoolmaster said to me:

"Good-looking woman that, eh, boy? Married three weeks ago," he added. 

The well-being of all-- the end; expropriation-- the means.

II Expropriation, such then is the problem which History has put
before the men of the twentieth century: the return to Communism in
all that ministers to the well-being of man.

But this problem cannot be solved by means of legislation. No one imagines
that. The poor, as well as the rich, understand that neither the existing
Governments, nor any which might arise out of possible political
changes, would be capable of finding such a solution.

They feel the necessity of a social revolution; and both rich and poor recognize that this revolution
is imminent, that it may break out in a few years. A great change
in thought has taken place during the last half of the nineteenth
century; but suppressed, as it was, by the propertied classes, and
denied its natural development, this new spirit must now break its
bonds by violence and realize itself in a revolution.

Whence will the revolution come? how will it announce its coming?
No one can answer these questions. The future is hidden. But those
who watch and think do not misinterpret the signs: workers and exploiters,
Revolutionists and Conservatives, thinkers and men of action, all
feel that a revolution is at our doors.

Well, then,-- What are we going to do when the thunderbolt has fallen?
We have all been bent on studying the dramatic side of revolutions so
much, and the practical work of revolutions so little, that we are
apt to see only the stage effects, so to speak, of these great movements;
the fight of the first days; the barricades.

But this fight, this first skirmish, is soon ended, and it only after the breakdown of the old system
that the real work of revolution can be said to begin. Effete and powerless, attacked on all
sides, the old rulers are soon swept away by the breath of insurrection. In a few days the
middle-class monarchy of 1848 was no more, and while Louis Philippe
was making good his escape in a cab, Paris had already forgotten her
"citizen king."

The government of Thiers disappeared, on the 18th of March, 1871,
in a few hours, leaving Paris mistress of her destinies.

Yet 1848 and 1871 were only insurrections. Before a popular revolution
the masters of "the old order" disappear with a surprising rapidity.
Its upholders fly the country, to plot in safety elsewhere and to
devise measures for their return.

The former Government having disappeared, the army, hesitating before the tide of popular
opinion, no longer obeys its commanders, who have also prudently
decamped.

The troops stand by without interfering, or join the rebels. The police, standing at ease, are
uncertain whether to belabour the crowd, or to cry: "Long live the Commune!" while some retire
to their quarters to "await the pleasure of the new Government." Wealthy citizens pack their
trunks and betake themselves to places of safety. The people remain. This is how a revolution is
ushered in. In several large towns the Commune is proclaimed. In the streets wander scores of thousands
of men, and in the evening they crowd into improvised clubs, asking: "What shall we do?" and
ardently discuss public affairs.

All take an interest in them; those who yesterday were quite indifferent
are perhaps the most zealous. Everywhere there is plenty of good-will
and a keen desire to make victory certain.

It is a time when acts of supreme devotion are occurring.

The masses of the people are full of the desire of going forward. All
this is splendid, sublime; but still, it is not a revolution. Nay, it
is only now that the work of the revolutionist begins.

Doubtless there will be acts of vengeance. The Watrins and the Thomases will pay the penalty of
their unpopularity; but these are mere incidents of the struggle--
not the revolution.

Socialist politicians, radicals, neglected geniuses of journalism, stump orators-- both middle-class
people and workmen-- will hurry to the Town Hall, to the Government offices, to take possession
of the vacant seats.

Some will decorate themselves with gold and silver lace to their hearts'content, admire themselves
in ministerial mirrors, and study to give orders with an air of importance appropriate to their new
position. How could they impress their comrades of the office or the workshop without having
a red sash, an embroidered cap, and magisterial gestures!

Others will bury themselves in official papers, trying, with the best of wills, to make head or
tail of them.

They will indite laws and issue high-flown worded decrees that nobody will take the trouble
to carry out-- because revolution has come.

To give themselves an authority which they have not they will seek the sanction of old forms of Government.
They will take the names of "Provisional Government," "Committee of Public Safety," "Mayor," "Governor
of the Town Hall," "Commissioner of Public Safety," and what not. Elected or acclaimed, they will assemble
in Boards or in Communal Councils, where men of ten or twenty different schools will come together, representing--
not as many "private chapels," as it is often said, but as many different
conceptions regarding the scope, the bearing, and the goal of the
revolution.

Possibilists, Collectivists, Radicals, Jacobins, Blanquists, will be thrust together, and waste
time in wordy warfare. Honest men will be huddled together with the ambitious ones, whose only
dream is power and who spurn the crowd whence they are sprung. All coming together with diametrically opposed
views, all-- forced to enter into ephemeral alliances, in order to
create majorities that can but last a day.

Wrangling,
calling each other reactionaries, authoritarians, and rascals, incapable of coming to an understanding
on any serious measure, dragged into discussions about trifles, producing nothing better than bombastic
proclamations; all giving themselves an awful importance while the real strength of the movement
is in the streets. All this may please those who like the stage, but it is not revolution. Nothing has been
accomplished as yet. And meanwhile the people suffer. The factories are
idle, the workshops closed; trade is at a standstill. The worker does
not even earn the meagre wage which was his before.

Food goes up in price. With that heroic devotion which has always characterized them, and which in great
crises reaches the sublime, the people will wait patiently. "We place these three months of want
at the service of the Republic," they said in 1848, while "their representatives" and the gentlemen
of the new Government, down to the meanest Jack-in-office received
their salary regularly. The people suffer.

With the childlike faith, with the good humour of the masses who believe in their leaders, they
think that "yonder," in the House, in the Town Hall, in the Committee of Public Safety, their
welfare is being considered. But "yonder" they are discussing everything under the sun except
the welfare of the people.

In 1793, while famine ravaged France and crippled the Revolution;
whilst the people were reduced to the depths of misery, although the
Champs Elysées were lined with luxurious carriages where women displayed
their jewels and splendour, Robespierre was urging the Jacobins to
discuss his treatise on the English Constitution.

While the worker was suffering in 1848 from the general stoppage
of trade, the Provisional Government and the National Assembly were
wrangling over military pensions and prison labour, without troubling
how the people managed to live during the terrible crisis.

And could one cast a reproach at the Paris Commune, which was born beneath the Prussian cannon,
and lasted only seventy days, it would be for this same error-- this failure to understand that
the Revolution could not triumph unless those who fought on its side were fed: that on fifteen
pence a day a man cannot fight on the ramparts and at the same time support a family. The people
will suffer and say: "How is a way out of these difficulties to be found?" III It seems to us
that there is only one answer to this question: We must recognize,
and loudly proclaim, that every one, whatever his grade in the old
society, whether strong or weak, capable or incapable, has, before
everything, THE RIGHT TO LIVE, and that society is bound to share
amongst all, without exception, the means of existence it has at its
disposal.

We must acknowledge this, and proclaim it aloud, and act up to it. Affairs must be managed in
such a way that from the first day of the revolution the worker shall know that a new era is
opening before him; that henceforward none need crouch under the bridges, while palaces are hard
by, none need fast in the midst of plenty, none need perish with cold near shops full of furs; that
all is for all, in practice as well as in theory, and that at last, for the first time in history,
a revolution has been accomplished which considers the NEEDS of the
people before schooling them in their DUTIES. This cannot be brought
about by Acts of Parliament, but only by taking immediate and effective
possession of all that is necessary to ensure the well-being of all;
this is the only really scientific way of going to work, the only
way which can be understood and desired by the mass of the people.

We must take possession, in the name of the people, of the granaries,
the shops full of clothing and the dwelling houses. Nothing must be
wasted. We must organize without delay a way to feed the hungry, to satisfy
all wants, to meet all needs, to produce not for the special benefit
of this one or that one, but so as to ensure to society as a whole
its life and further development.

Enough of ambiguous words like "the right to work," with which the people were misled in 1848,
and which are still resorted to with the hope of misleading them. Let
us have the courage to recognise that Well-being for all, henceforward
possible, must be realized. When the workers claimed the right to
work in 1848, national and municipal workshops were organized, and
workmen were sent to drudge there at the rate of 1s.

8d. a day! When they asked the "Organization of Labour," the reply
was: "Patience, friends, the Government will see to it; meantime here
is your 1s.

8d.

Rest now, brave toiler, after your life-long struggle for food!" And in the meantime the cannons
were overhauled, the reserves called out, and the workers themselves disorganized by the many methods
well known to the middle classes, till one fine day, in June, 1848, four months after the overthrow
of the previous Government, they were told to go and colonize Africa, or be shot down. Very different
will be the result if the workers claim the RIGHT TO WELL-BEING!

In claiming that right they claim the right to take possession of the wealth of the community--
to take houses to dwell in according to the needs of each family; to socialize the stores of food and
learn the meaning of plenty, after having known famine too well. They proclaim their right to all
social wealth-- fruit of the labour of past and present generations-- and learn by its means to
enjoy those higher pleasures of art and science which have too long been monopolized by the rich.
And while asserting their right to live in comfort, they assert,
what is still more important, their right to decide for themselves
what this comfort shall be, what must be produced to ensure it, and
what discarded as no longer of value.

The "right to well-being" means the possibility of living like human beings,
and of bringing up children to be members of a society better than ours,
whilst the "right to work" only means the right to be always a wage-slave,
a drudge, ruled over and exploited by the middle class of the future.
The right to well-being is the Social Revolution, the right to work
means nothing but the Treadmill of Commercialism.

It is high time for the worker to assert his right to the common inheritance,
and to enter into possession of it.

FOOTNOTE: [1] 4,013,711 now employed in all the 53 branches of different
industries, including the State Ordnance Works, and 241,530 workers
engaged in the Construction and Maintenance of Railways, their aggregate
production reaching the value of£ 1,041,037,000, and the net output
being£ 406,799,000.

CHAPTER III ANARCHIST COMMUNISM I Every society, on abolishing private
property will be forced, we maintain, to organize itself on the lines
of Communistic Anarchy. Anarchy leads to Communism, and Communism
to Anarchy, both alike being expressions of the predominant tendency
in modern societies, the pursuit of equality.

Time was when a peasant family could consider the corn it sowed and
reaped, or the woolen garments woven in the cottage, as the products
of its own soil.

But even then this way of looking at things was not quite correct. There were the roads and
the bridges made in common, the swamps drained by common toil, the
communal pastures enclosed by hedges which were kept in repair by
each and all.

If the looms for weaving or the dyes for colouring fabrics were improved by somebody, all profited;
and even in those days a peasant family could not live alone, but was dependent in a thousand ways on
the village or the commune. But nowadays, in the present state of
industry, when everything is interdependent, when each branch of
production is knit up with all the rest, the attempt to claim an Individualist
origin for the products of industry is absolutely untenable.

The astonishing perfection attained by the textile or mining industries
in civilized countries is due to the simultaneous development of a
thousand other industries, great and small, to the extension of the
railroad system, to inter-oceanic navigation, to the manual skill
of thousands of workers, to a certain standard of culture reached
by the working class as a whole-- to the labours, in short, of men
in every corner of the globe.

The Italians who died of cholera while making the Suez Canal, or
of anchylosis in the St. Gothard Tunnel, and the Americans mowed down
by shot and shell while fighting for the abolition of slavery, have
helped to develop the cotton industry of France and England, as well
as the work-girls who languish in the factories of Manchester and
Rouen, and the inventor who (following the suggestion of some worker)
succeeds in improving the looms.

How then, shall we estimate the share of each in the riches which ALL
contribute to amass? Looking at production from this general, synthetic
point of view, we cannot hold with the Collectivists that payment proportionate
to the hours of labour rendered by each would be an ideal arrangement,
or even a step in the right direction.

Without discussing whether exchange value of goods is really measured
in existing societies by the amount of work necessary to produce
it-- according to the teaching of Adam Smith and Ricardo, in whose
footsteps Marx has followed-- suffice it to say here, leaving ourselves
free to return to the subject later, that the Collectivist ideal appears
to us untenable in a society which considers the instruments of labour
as a common inheritance.

Starting from this principle, such a society would find itself forced from the very outset to abandon
all forms of wages. The migrated individualism of the Collectivist
system certainly could not maintain itself alongside a partial communism--
the socialization of land and the instruments of production.

A new form of property requires a new form of remuneration. A new method
of production cannot exist side by side with the old forms of consumption,
any more than it can adapt itself to the old forms of political organization.
The wage system arises out of the individual ownership of the land
and the instruments of labour.

It was the necessary condition for the development of capitalist production,
and will perish with it, in spite of the attempt to disguise it as
"profit-sharing." The common possession of the instruments of labour
must necessarily bring with it the enjoyment in common of the fruits
of common labour.

We hold further that Communism is not only desirable, but that existing societies, founded on Individualism,
are inevitably impelled in the direction of Communism. The development
of Individualism during the last three centuries is explained by
the efforts of the individual to protect himself from the tyranny
of Capital and of the State.

For a time he imagined, and those who expressed his thought for him declared, that he could
free himself entirely from the State and from society.

"By means of money," he said, "I can buy all that I need." But the
individual was on a wrong track, and modern history has taught him
to recognize that, without the help of all, he can do nothing, although
his strong-boxes are full of gold.

In fact, along this current of Individualism, we find in all modern
history a tendency, on the one hand to retain all that remains of
the partial Communism of antiquity, and, on the other, to establish
the Communist principle in the thousand developments of modern life.

As soon as the communes of the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth centuries had
succeeded in emancipating themselves from their lords, ecclesiastical
or lay, their communal labour and communal consumption began to extend and
develop rapidly.

The township-- and not private persons-- freighted ships and equipped
expeditions, for the export of their manufacture, and the benefit
arising from the foreign trade did not accrue to individuals, but
was shared by all.

At the outset, the townships also bought provisions for all their
citizens.

Traces of these institutions have lingered on into the nineteenth
century, and the people piously cherish the memory of them in their
legends.

All that has disappeared.

But the rural township still struggles to preserve the last traces of this Communism, and it
succeeds-- except when the State throws its heavy sword into the balance. Meanwhile new organizations,
based on the same principle-- to every man according to his needs-- spring up under a thousand
different forms; for without a certain leaven of Communism the present
societies could not exist.

In spite of the narrowly egoistic turn given to men's minds by the commercial system, the tendency
towards Communism is constantly appearing, and it influences our activities in a variety of
ways.

The bridges, for the use of which a toll was levied in the old days, have become public property and
are free to all; so are the high roads, except in the East, where a toll is still exacted from
the traveller for every mile of his journey. Museums, free libraries, free schools, free meals for
children; parks and gardens open to all; streets paved and lighted, free to all; water supplied
to every house without measure or stint-- all such arrangements are
founded on the principle: "Take what you need."

The tramways and railways have already introduced monthly and annual
season tickets, without limiting the number of journeys taken; and
two nations, Hungary and Russia, have introduced on their railways the
zone system, which permits the holder to travel five hundred or eight
hundred miles for the same price.

It is but a short step from that to a uniform charge, such as already prevails in the postal service.
In all these innovations, and in a thousand others, the tendency is not to measure the individual
consumption. One man wants to travel eight hundred miles, another five hundred. These are personal
requirements. There is no sufficient reason why one should pay twice as much as the other because
his need is twice as great.

Such are the signs which appear even now in our individualist societies. Moreover, there is a tendency,
though still a feeble one, to consider the needs of the individual, irrespective of his past
or possible services to the community. We are beginning to think
of society as a whole, each part of which is so intimately bound up
with the others that a service rendered to one is a service rendered
to all.

When you go to a public library-- not indeed the National Library
of Paris, but, say, into the British Museum or the Berlin Library--
the librarian does not ask what services you have rendered to society
before giving you the book, or the fifty books, which you require;
he even comes to your assistance if you do not know how to manage
the catalogue.

By means of uniform credentials-- and very often a contribution of work is preferred-- the scientific society
opens its museums, its gardens, its library, its laboratories, and its annual conversaziones to each
of its members, whether he be a Darwin, or a simple amateur.

At St. Petersburg, if you are elaborating an invention, you go into a
special laboratory, where you are given a place, a carpenter's bench, a turning
lathe, all the necessary tools and scientific instruments, provided
only you know how to use them; and you are allowed to work there as long
as you please.

"And thou'st been living here ever since--alone, wi' Jane Sarah?"

"Not exactly," Herbert replied. "With my wife."

Fully emboldened now, he related to his uncle the whole circumstances of his marriage.

Whereupon, to his surprise, Silas laughed hilariously, hysterically, and gulped down the remainder
of the whisky.

"Where is her?" Silas demanded.

"Upstairs."

"I' my bedroom, I lay," said Silas.

Herbert nodded. "May be."

"And everything upside down!" proceeded Uncle Silas.

"No!" said Herbert. "We've put all your things in my old room."

"Have ye! Ye're too obliging, lad!" growled Silas. "And if it isn't asking too much, where's
that china pig as used to be on the chimney-piece in th' kitchen there? Her's smashed it, eh?"

"No," said Herbert, mildly. "She's put it away in a cupboard. She didn't like it."

"Ah! I was but wondering if ye'd foreclosed on th' pig too."

"Possibly a few things are changed," said Herbert. "But you know when a woman takes into her
head--"

"Ay, lad! Ay, lad! I know! It was th' same wi' my beard. It had for go. Thou'st under the domination
of a woman, and I can sympathize wi' thee."

Herbert gave a long, high whistle.

"So that's it?" he exclaimed. And he suddenly felt as if his uncle was no longer an uncle but
a brother.

"Yes," said Silas. "That's it. I'll tell thee. Pour some more hot water in here. Dost remember
when th' Carl Rosa Opera Company was at Theatre Royal last year? I met her then. Her was one
o' Venus's maidens i' th' fust act o' Tannhäuser, and her was a bridesmaid i' Lohengrin, and
Siebel i' Faust, and a cigarette girl i' summat else. But it was in Tannhäuser as I fust saw
her on the stage, and her struck me like that." Silas clapped one damp hand violently on the
other. "Miss Elsa Venda was her stage name, but her was a widow, Mrs Parfitt, and had bin for
ten years. Seemingly her husband was of good family. Finest woman I ever seed, nephew. And
you'll say so. Her'd ha' bin a prima donna only for jealousy. Fust time I spoke to her I thought
I should ha' fallen down. Steady with that water. Dost want for skin me alive? Yes, I thought
I should ha' fallen down. They call'n it love. You can call it what ye'n a mind for call it.
I nearly fell down."

"How did you meet her, uncle?" Herbert interposed, aware that his uncle had not been accustomed
to move in theatrical circles.

"How did I meet her? I met her by setting about to meet her. I had for t' meet her. I got Harry
Burisford, th' manager o' th' theatre thou knowst, for t' introduce us. Then I give a supper,
nephew--I give a supper at Turk's Head, but private like."

"Was that the time when you were supposed to be at the Ratepayers' Association every night?"
Herbert asked blandly.

"It was, nephew," said Si, with equal blandness.

"Then no doubt those two visits to Manchester, afterwards--"

"Exactly," said Si. "Th' company went to Manchester and stopped there a fortnight. I told her
fair and square what I meant and what I was worth. There was no beating about the bush wi'
me. All her friends told her she'd be a fool if she wouldn't have me. She said her'd write
me yes or no. Her didn't. Her telegraphed me from Sunderland for go and see her at once. It
was that morning as I left. I thought to be back in a couple o' days and to tell thee as all
was settled. But women! Women! Her had me dangling after her from town to town for a week.
I was determined to get her, and get her I did, though it cost me my beard, and the best part
o' that four hundred. I married her i' Halifax, lad, and it were the best day's work I ever
did. You never seed such a woman. Big and plump--and sing! By----! I never cared for singing
afore. And her knows the world, let me tell ye."

"You might have sent us word," said Herbert.

Silas grew reflective. "Ah!" he said. "I might--and I mightn't. I didn't want Hanbridge chattering.
I was trapesing wi' her from town to town till her engagement was up--pretty near six months.
Then us settled i' rooms at Scarborough, and there was other things to think of. I couldn't
leave her. Her wouldna' let me. To-day was the fust free day I've had, and so I run down to
fix matters. And nice weather I've chosen! Her aunt's spending the night wi' her."

"Then she's left the stage."

"Of course she's left th' stage. What 'ud be th' sense o' her painting her face and screeching
her chest out night after night for a crowd o' blockheads, when I can keep her like a lady.
Dost think her's a fool? Her's the only woman wi' any sense as ever I met in all my life."

"And you want to come here and live?"

"No, us dunna! At least her dunna. Her says her hates th' Five Towns. Thus we see most socialists,
even those who have not feared to point out the mistakes of economical science, justifying
the division of labour. Talk to them about the organization of work during the Revolution, and
they answer that the division of labour must be maintained; that if you sharpened pins before
the Revolution you must go on sharpening them after. True, you will not have to work more than
five hours a day, but you will have to sharpen pins all your life,
while others will make designs for machines that will enable you to
sharpen hundreds of millions of pins during your life-time; and others
again will be specialists in the higher branches of literature, science,
and art, etc. You were born to sharpen pins while Pasteur was born
to invent the inoculation against anthrax, and the Revolution will
leave you both to your respective employments.

Well, it is this horrible principle, so noxious to society, so brutalizing
to the individual, source of so much harm, that we propose to discuss
in its divers manifestations.

We know the consequences of the division of labour full well.

It is evident that, first of all, we are divided into two classes: on the one hand, producers,
who consume very little and are exempt from thinking because they
only do physical work, and who work badly because their brains remain
inactive; and on the other hand, the consumers, who, producing little
or hardly anything, have the privilege of thinking for the others,
and who think badly because the whole world of those who toil with
their hands is unknown to them.

Then, we have the labourers of the soil who know nothing of machinery,
while those who work at machinery ignore everything about agriculture.

The idea of modern industry is a child tending a machine that he
cannot and must not understand, and a foreman who fines him if his
attention flags for a moment.

The ideal of industrial agriculture is to do away with the agricultural labourer altogether
and to set a man who does odd jobs to tend a steam-plough or a threshing-machine. The division of
labour means labelling and stamping men for life-- some to splice ropes in factories, some to
be foremen in a business, others to shove huge coal-baskets in a particular part of a mine;
but none of them to have any idea of machinery as a whole, nor of business, nor of mines. And
thereby they destroy the love of work and the capacity for invention that, at the beginning of
modern industry, created the machinery on which we pride ourselves
so much.

What they have done for individuals, they also wanted to do for nations. Humanity was to be divided
into national workshops, having each its speciality. Russia, we were taught, was destined by nature
to grow corn; England to spin cotton; Belgium to weave cloth; while Switzerland was to train nurses
and governesses. Moreover, each separate city was to establish a
specialty.

Lyons was to weave silk, Auvergne to make lace, and Paris fancy articles. In this way, economists
said, an immense field was opened for production and consumption, and in this way an era of limitless
wealth for mankind was at hand.

However, these great hopes vanished as fast as technical knowledge spread abroad. As long as
England stood alone as a weaver of cotton and as a metal-worker on a large scale; as long as
only Paris made artistic fancy articles, etc., all went well, economists
could preach the so-called division of labour without being refuted.

But a new current of thought induced bye and bye all civilized nations
to manufacture for themselves.

They found it advantageous to produce what they formerly received
from other countries, or from their colonies, which in their turn
aimed at emancipating themselves from the mother-country.

Scientific discoveries universalized the methods of production, and
henceforth it was useless to pay an exorbitant price abroad for what
could easily be produced at home.

And now we see already that this industrial revolution strikes a
crushing blow at the theory of the division of labour which for a
long time was supposed to be so sound.

CHAPTER XVI THE DECENTRALIZATION OF INDUSTRY [10] I After the Napoleonic
wars Britain had nearly succeeded in ruining the main industries which
had sprung up in France at the end of the preceding century.

She also became mistress of the seas and had no rivals of importance.

She took in the situation, and knew how to turn its privileges and
advantages to account.

She established an industrial monopoly, and, imposing upon her neighbours
her prices for the goods she alone could manufacture, accumulated riches
upon riches.

But as the middle-class Revolution of the eighteenth century had abolished serfdom and created a
proletariat in France, French industry, hampered for a time in its flight, soared again, and from the
second half of the nineteenth century France ceased to be a tributary of England for manufactured goods.
To-day she too has grown into a nation with an export trade.

She sells far more than sixty million pounds'worth of manufactured goods, and two-thirds of these
goods are fabrics. The number of Frenchmen working for export or living by their foreign trade,
is estimated at three millions. France is therefore no longer England's tributary. In her turn
she has striven to monopolize certain branches of foreign industry, such as silks and ready-made
clothes, and has reaped immense profits therefrom; but she is on the point of losing this monopoly
for ever, just as England is on the point of losing the monopoly of cotton goods. Travelling eastwards,
industry has reached Germany.

Fifty years ago Germany was a tributary of England and France for
most manufactured commodities in the higher branches of industry.

It is no longer so. In the course of the last fifty years, and especially since the Franco-German
war, Germany has completely reorganized her industry. The new factories are stocked with the best machinery;
the latest creations of industrial art in cotton goods from Manchester,
or in silks from Lyons, etc., are now realized in new German factories.

It took two
or three generations of workers, at Lyons and Manchester, to construct the modern machinery;
but Germany adopted it in its perfected state. Technical schools, adapted to the needs of industry,
supply the factories with an army of intelligent workmen-- practical engineers, who can work with
both hand and brain. German industry starts at the point which was only reached by Manchester
and Lyons after fifty years of groping in the dark, of exertion and experiments. It follows that
since Germany manufactures so well at home, she diminishes her imports from France and England
year by year. She has not only become their rival in manufactured goods in Asia and in Africa, but
also in London and in Paris. Shortsighted people in France may cry out against the Frankfort Treaty;
English manufacturers may explain German competition by little differences
in railway tariffs; they may linger on the petty side of questions,
and neglect great historical facts.

But it is none the less certain that the main industries, formerly in the hands of England and
France, have progressed eastward, and in Germany they have found
a country, young, full of energy, possessing an intelligent middle
class, and eager in its turn to enrich itself by foreign trade.

While Germany has freed herself from subjection to France and England, has manufactured her own cotton-cloth,
and constructed her own machines-- in fact, manufactured all commodities-- the main industries
have also taken root in Russia, where the development of manufacture is the more instructive
as it sprang up but yesterday. At the time of the abolition of serfdom in 1861, Russia had hardly
any factories. Everything needed in the way of machines, rails, railway-engines, fine dress materials,
came from the West. Twenty years later she possessed already 85,000 factories, and the value
of the goods manufactured in Russia had increased fourfold. The old machinery was superseded,
and now nearly all the steel in use in Russia, three-quarters of the
iron, two-thirds of the coal, all railway-engines, railway-carriages,
rails, nearly all steamers, are made in Russia.

Russia, destined-- so wrote economists-- to remain an agricultural territory,
has rapidly developed into a manufacturing country. She orders hardly anything
from England, and very little from Germany. Economists hold the customs
responsible for these facts, and yet cottons manufactured in Russia
are sold at the same price as in London.

Capital taking no cognizance of father-lands, German and English capitalists, accompanied by engineers
and foremen of their own nationalities, have introduced in Russia and
in Poland manufactories whose goods compete in excellence with the
best from England.

If customs were abolished to-morrow, manufacture would only gain by
it. Not long ago the British manufacturers delivered another hard
blow to the import of cloth and woolens from the West.

They set up in southern and middle Russia immense wool factories,
stocked with the most perfect machinery from Bradford, and already
now Russia imports only the highest sorts of cloth and woolen fabrics
from England, France and Austria.

The remainder is fabricated at home, both in factories and as domestic industries.
The main industries not only move eastward, they are spreading also
to the southern peninsulas.

The Turin Exhibition of 1884 already demonstrated the progress made
in Italian manufactured produce; and, let us not make any mistake
about it, the mutual hatred of the French and Italian middle classes
has no other origin than their industrial rivalry.

Spain is also becoming an industrial country; while in the East,
Bohemia has suddenly sprung into importance as a new centre of manufactures,
provided with perfected machinery and applying the best scientific
methods.

We might also mention Hungary's rapid progress in the main industries, but let us rather take
Brazil as an example. Economists sentenced Brazil to cultivate cotton forever, to export it in its
raw state, and to receive cotton-cloth from Europe in exchange. In fact, forty years ago Brazil
had only nine wretched little cotton factories with 385 spindles. To-day
there are 160 cotton-mills, possessing 1,500,000 spindles and 50,000
looms, which throw 500 million yards of textiles on the market annually.

Even Mexico is now very successful in manufacturing cotton-cloth,
instead of importing it from Europe.

As to the United States they have quite freed themselves from European tutelage, and have triumphantly
developed their manufacturing powers to an enormous extent. But it was India which gave the most
striking proof against the specialization of national industry. We all know the theory: the great
European nations need colonies, for colonies send raw material-- cotton fibre, unwashed wool, spices,
etc., to the mother-land.

And the mother-land, under pretense of sending them manufactured wares, gets rid of her damaged stuffs,
her machine scrap-iron and everything which she no longer has any use for. It costs her little or
nothing, and none the less the articles are sold at exorbitant prices. Such was the theory-- such was
the practice for a long time. In London and Manchester fortunes were made, while India was being
ruined. In the India Museum in London unheard of riches, collected in Calcutta and Bombay by English
merchants, are to be seen.

But other English merchants and capitalists conceived the very simple
idea that it would be more expedient to exploit the natives of India
by making cotton-cloth in India itself, than to import from twenty
to twenty-four million pounds'worth of goods annually.

At first a series of experiments ended in failure. Indian weavers-- artists and experts in their
own craft-- could not inure themselves to factory life; the machinery
sent from Liverpool was bad; the climate had to be taken into account;
and merchants had to adapt themselves to new conditions, now fully
mastered, before British India could become the menacing rival of
the Mother-land she is to-day.

She now possesses more than 200 cotton-mills which employ about 230,000
workmen, and contain more than 6,000,000 spindles and 80,000 looms,
and 40 jute-mills, with 400,000 spindles.

She exports annually to China, to the Dutch Indies, and to Africa, nearly eight million pounds'worth
of the same white cotton-cloth, said to be England's specialty.

And while English workmen are often unemployed and in great want, Indian women weave cotton by
machinery, for the Far East at wages of six-pence a day. In short, the intelligent manufacturers
are fully aware that the day is not far off when they will not know
what to do with the "factory hands" who formerly wove cotton-cloth
for export from England.

Besides which it is becoming more and more evident that India will no import a single ton
of iron from England.

The initial difficulties in using the coal and the iron-ore obtained in India have been overcome; and foundries,
rivalling those in England, have been built on the shores of the Indian Ocean. Colonies competing with
the mother-land in its production of manufactured goods, such is the factor which will regulate
economy in the twentieth century. And why should India not manufacture? What should be the
hindrance?

Capital?-- But capital goes wherever there are men, poor enough to be exploited. Knowledge? But
knowledge recognizes no national barriers. Technical skill of the worker?-- No. Are, then, Hindoo workmen
inferior to the hundreds of thousands of boys and girls, not eighteen
years old, at present working in the English textile factories?

II After having glanced at national industries it would be very interesting to turn to some
special branches. Let us take silk, for example, an eminently French
produce in the first half of the nineteenth century. We all know how
Lyons became the emporium of the silk trade.

At first raw silk was gathered in southern France, till little by little they ordered it from Italy,
from Spain, from Austria, from the Caucasus, and from Japan, for the manufacture of their silk
fabrics. In 1875, out of five million kilos of raw silk converted into stuffs in the vicinity
of Lyons, there were only four hundred thousand kilos of French silk. But if Lyons manufactured
imported silk, why should not Switzerland, Germany, Russia, do as
much?

Consequently, silk-weaving began to develop in the villages round Zurich.
Bâle became a great centre of the silk trade. The Caucasian Administration
engaged women from Marseilles and workmen from Lyons to teach Georgians
the perfected rearing of silk-worms, and the art of converting silk
into fabrics to the Caucasian peasants.

Austria followed. Then Germany, with the help of Lyons workmen, built great silk factories. The
United States did likewise at Paterson. And to-day the silk trade is no longer a French monopoly.
Silks are made in Germany, in Austria, in the United States, and in England, and it is now
reckoned that one-third of the silk stuffs used in France are imported. In winter, Caucasian peasants
weave silk handkerchiefs at a wage that would mean starvation to the
silk-weavers of Lyons.

Italy and Germany send silks to France; and Lyons, which in 1870-4 exported 460 million francs'worth
of silk fabrics, exports now only one-half of that amount. In fact, the time is not far off when
Lyons will only send higher class goods and a few novelties as patterns to Germany, Russia and
Japan.

And so it is in all industries. Belgium has no longer the cloth monopoly;
cloth is made in Germany, in Russia, in Austria, in the United States.
Switzerland and the French Jura have no longer a clockwork monopoly;
watches are made everywhere.

Scotland no longer refines sugar for Russia: refined Russian sugar is imported into England. Italy,
although neither possessing coal nor iron, makes her own iron-clads and engines for her steamers.
Chemical industry is no longer an English monopoly; sulphuric acid and soda are made even
in the Urals. Steam-engines, made at Winterthur, have acquired everywhere a wide reputation,
and at the present moment, Switzerland, which has neither coal nor
iron, and no sea-ports to import them-- nothing but excellent technical
schools-- makes machinery better and cheaper than England.

So ends the theory of Exchange.

The tendency of trade, as for all else, is toward decentralization. Every
nation finds it advantageous to combine agriculture with the greatest
possible variety of factories.

The specialization, of which economists spoke so highly, certainly has enriched a number of capitalists,
but is now no longer of any use.

On the contrary, it is to the advantage of every region, every nation,
to grow their own wheat, their own vegetables, and to manufacture
at home most of the produce they consume.

This diversity is the surest pledge of the complete development of
production by mutual co-operation, and the moving cause of progress,
while specialization is now a hindrance to progress.

 He lived for music. He was organist of Saint Luke's Church (with
an industrious understudy--for he did not always rise for breakfast on Sundays) and, more important,
he was conductor of the Bursley Orpheus Glee and Madrigal Club. And herein lay the origin of
those Friday nights. A glee and madrigal club naturally comprises women as well as men; and
the women are apt to be youngish, prettyish, and somewhat fond of music. Further, the conductorship
of a choir involves many and various social encounters. Now Mary Morfe was jealous. Though
Richard Morfe ruled his choir with whips, though his satiric tongue was a scorpion to the choir,
though he never looked twice at any woman, though she was always saying that she wished he
would marry, Mary Morfe was jealous. It was Mary Morfe who had created the institution of the
Friday night, and she had created it in order to prove, symbolically and spectacularly, to
herself, to him, and to the world, that he and she lived for each other alone. All their friends,
every member of the choir, in fact the whole of the respectable part of barsley, knew quite
well that in the Morfes' house Friday was sacredly Friday.

And yet a caller!

"It's a woman," murmured Mary. Until her ear had assured her of this fact she had seemed to
be more disturbed than startled by the stir in the lobby.

And it was a woman. It was Miss Eva Harracles, one of the principal contraltos in the glee
and madrigal club. She entered richly blushing, and excusably a little nervous and awkward.
She was a tall, agreeable creature of fewer than thirty years, dark, almost handsome, with
fine lips and eyes, and an effective large hat and a good muff. In every physical way a marked
contrast to the thin, prim, desiccated brother and sister.

Richard Morfe flushed faintly. Mary Morfe grew more pallid.

"I really must apologize for coming in like this," said Eva, as she shook hands cordially with
Mary Morfe. She knew Mary very well indeed. For Mary was the "librarian" of the glee and madrigal
club; Mary never missed a rehearsal, though she cared no more for music than she cared for
the National Debt. She was a perfect librarian, and very good at unofficially prodding indolent
members into a more regular attendance too.

"Not at all!" said Mary. "We were only reading; you aren't disturbing us in the least." Which,
though polite, was a lie.

And Eva Harracles sat down between them. And brother and sister abandoned their literature.

"I can't stop," said she, glancing at the clock immediately in front of her eyes. "I must catch
the last car for Silverhays."

"You've got twenty minutes yet," said Mr Morfe.

"Because," said Eva, "I don't want that walk from Turnhill to Silverhays on a dark night like
this."

"No, I should think not, indeed!" said Mary Morfe.

"You've got a full twenty minutes," Mr Morfe repeated. The clock showed three minutes past nine.

The electric cars to and from the town of Turnhill were rumbling past the very door of the
Morfes every five minutes, and would continue to do so till midnight. But Silverhays is a mining
village a couple of miles beyond Turnhill, and the service between Turnhill and Silverhays
ceases before ten o'clock. "I'm going to have this mounted and framed," said Mrs. Marlow, as she
put the photograph back in her bag and turned to go.

"I misplaced it some time ago and couldn't lay hands on it, but I
came across it by accident this morning, so now I'll take care of
it."

She nodded, smiled, and went off into the sunlight outside, and Allerdyke,
more puzzled than ever, walked forward into the hotel and towards
the restaurant.

At its door he met Fullaway, coming out, and in his usual hurry.

Fullaway started at sight of Allerdyke, button-holed him, and led
him into a corner.

"Oh, I say, Allerdyke!" he said, in his bustling fashion. "Look here, a word with you. You've
no objection, have you?" he went on in subdued tones, "if Van Koon
and I have a try for that reward?

It doesn't matter to you, or to the Princess, or to Miss Lennard,
who gets the reward so long as the criminals are brought to justice
and the goods found-- eh?

And you know fifty thousand is-- what it is."

"You've got an idea?" asked Allerdyke, regarding his questioner steadily.

"Frankly, yes-- an idea-- a notion," answered Fullaway.

"Van Koon and I have been discussing the whole affair-- just now. He's a smart man, and has
had experience in these things on the other side. But, of course, we don't want to give our
idea away. We want to work in entire independence of the police,
for instance.

What we're thinking of requires patience and deep investigation.
So we want to work on our own methods.

See?"

"It doesn't matter to me who gets the reward-- as you say," said Allerdyke
slowly.

"I want justice. I'm not so much concerned about the jewels as about who killed my cousin. I believe
that man Lydenberg did the actual killing-- but who was at Lydenberg's
back?

Find that out, and--"

"Exactly-- exactly!" broke in Fullaway. "The very thing!

Well-- you understand, Allerdyke.

Van Koon and I will want to keep our operations to ourselves. We
don't want police interference.

So, if any of these Scotland Yard chaps come to you here for talk
or information, don't bring me into it.

And don't expect me to tell what we're doing until we've carried
out our investigations.

No interim reports, you know, Allerdyke.

Personally, I believe we're on the track."

"Do just what you please," replied Allerdyke. "You're not the only two who are after that reward.
Go ahead-- your own way."

He turned into the restaurant and ordered his lunch, and while it was being brought sat drumming
his fingers on the table, staring vacantly at the people about him and wondering over the events
of the morning. Rayner's, or Ramsay's, vague hint that something might suddenly clear everything
up; Fullaway's announcement that he and Van Koon had put their heads together; Mrs. Perrigo's
story of the French maid and the young man who led blue-ribboned
pug-dogs-- but all these were as nothing compared to the fact that
Mrs. Marlow had actually shown him the photograph which he had until
then firmly believed to lie hidden in the case of Lydenberg's watch.

That beat him.

"Is my blessed memory going wrong?" he said to himself. "Did I actually
print more than four copies of that thing!

No-- no!-- I'm shot if I did.

My memory never fails. I did not print off more than four. James had three; I had one. Mine's
in my album upstairs. I know what James did with his. Cousin Grace has one; Wilson Firth has
another; he gave the third to this Mrs. Marlow-- and she's got it! Then-- how the devil did that
photograph, which looks to be of my taking, which I'd swear is of my taking, come to be in
Lydenberg's watch? Gad-- it's enough to make a man's brain turn to
pap!"

He was moodily finishing his lunch when Chettle came in to find him. Allerdyke, who was in
a quiet corner, beckoned the detective to a seat, and offered him
a drink.

"Well?" he asked. "What's been done?"

"It's all right," answered Chettle. "I've told no more than was necessary-- just
what we agreed upon.

To tell you the truth, our folks don't attach such tremendous importance to it-- they will, of
course, when you tell them your story about the photo. Just at present they merely see the obvious
fact-- that Lydenberg was furnished with the photo as a means of ready identification of your brother.
No-- at this moment they're full of the Perrigo woman's story-- they
think that's a sure clue-- a good beginning.

Somebody, they say, must own, or have owned, those pugs!

Therefore they're going strong on that. Meanwhile, I'm going back
to Hull for at any rate a few days."

"You've still got that watch on you?" asked Allerdyke.

"Certainly," answered Chettle, clapping his hand to his breast-pocket. "Technically speaking,
it's in charge of the Hull police-- it'll have to be produced there. Did you want to see it
again, Mr. Allerdyke?"

"Finish your drink and come up to my sitting-room," said Allerdyke.

"I'll give you a cigar up there.

Yes," he added, as they left the restaurant and went upstairs. "I do want to see it again-- or,
rather, the photograph. You're in no hurry?"

"A good hour to spare yet," replied Chettle.

Allerdyke locked the door of the sitting-room when they were once inside it, and that done he
placed a decanter, a syphon, and a glass on his table, and flanked them with a box of cigars.
He waved a hospitable hand towards these comforts.

"Sit down and help yourself, Chettle," he said. "A drop of my whisky'll do you no harm-- that's
some I got down from home, and you'll not find its like everywhere. Light a cigar-- and put
a couple in your pocket to smoke in the train. Now then, let's see
that photograph once more."

Chettle handed over the watch, and Allerdyke, opening the case, delicately
removed the print.

He sat down at the table with his back to the light, and carefully
examined the thing back and front, while the detective, glass in hand,
cigar in lips, and thumb in the armhole of his waistcoat, watched
him appreciatively and inquisitively.

"Make aught new out of it, sir?" he asked after a while.

Instead of answering, Allerdyke laid the photograph down, went across to another table, and took
from it his album. He turned its leaves over until he came to a few loose prints. He picked them
up one after another and examined them. And suddenly he knew the secret. There was no longer any
problem, any difficulty about that photograph. He knew-- now! And with a sharp exclamation, he
flung the album back to the side-table, and turned to the detective.

"Chettle!" he said. "You know me well enough to know that I can make it well worth any man's
while to keep a secret until I tell him he can speak about it! What!"

"I should think so, Mr. Allerdyke," responded Chettle, readily enough.

"And if you want me to keep a secret--"

"I do-- for the time being," answered Allerdyke.

He sat down again and picked up the photograph which had exercised his thoughts so intensely.
"I've found out the truth concerning this," he said, tapping it with his finger. "Yes, I've hit it!
Listen, now-- I told you I'd only made four prints of this photo, and that I knew exactly where
they all were-- one in my own album there, two given by James to friends
in Bradford, one-- as we more recently found out-- given by James
to Mrs. Marlow.

That one-- the Mrs. Marlow one-- we believed to be-- this-- this!"

"And isn't it, Mr. Allerdyke?" asked Chettle wonderingly.

Allerdyke laughed-- a laugh of relief and satisfaction.

"Less than an hour ago," he replied, "in fact, just before you came
in, Mrs. Marlow showed me the photo which James gave her-- showed it
to me, out below there in the hall.

No mistaking it! And so-- when you came, I was racking my brains to
rags trying to settle what this photo-- this!-- was.

And now I know what it is-- and damn me if I know whether the discovery
makes things plainer or more mixed up!

But-- I know what this is, anyway."

"And-- what is it, sir?" asked Chettle eagerly, eyeing the photo as
if it were some fearful living curiosity.

"What, Mr. Allerdyke?"

"Why, it's a photograph of my photograph!" almost shouted Allerdyke,
with a thump of his big hand on the table.

"That's the truth. This has been reproduced from mine, d'ye see?

Look here-- happen you don't know much about photography, but you'll follow me-- I always use
a certain sort of printing-out paper; I've stuck to one particular
sort for years-- all the photos in that album are done on that particular
sort.

The four prints I made of James's last photo were done on that paper. Now then-- this photo,
this print that you found in Lydenberg's watch, is not done on that
paper-- it's a totally different paper.

Therefore-- this is a reproduction! It is not my original print at all-- it's been copied from it.
See?"

Chettle, who had followed all this with concentrated attention, nodded
his head several times.

"Clever-- clever-- clever!"
he said with undisguised admiration. "Clever, indeed! That's a smart bit of work, sir. I see--
I understand! Bless my soul! And what do you gather from that, Mr.
Allerdyke?"

"This!" answered Allerdyke. "Just now, Mrs. Marlow said to me, speaking of her photo-- the fourth
print, you know--'I misplaced it some time ago,'she said,'and couldn't lay hands on it, but I
came across it accidentally this morning.'Now then, Chettle, here's the thing-- somebody took
that fourth print from Mrs. Marlow, reproduced it-- and that-- that print
which you found in Lydenberg's watch is the reproduction!"

"So that," began Chettle suggestively, "so that--"

"So that the thing now is to find who it is that made the reproduction," said Allerdyke. "When
we've found him-- or her-- I reckon we shall have found the man who's
at the heart of all this.

Leave that to me!

Keep this a dead secret until I tell you to speak-- we shall have
to tell all this, and a bonny sight more, to your bosses at headquarters-- off
you go to Hull, and do what you have to do, and I'll get on with my
work here.

I said I didn't know whether this discovery makes things thicker or clearer, but, by George,
it's a step forward anyway!"

Chettle put the reproduction back into the case of the watch and bestowed
it safely in his pocket.

"One step forward's a good deal in a case like this, Mr. Allerdyke," he said. "What are you going
to do about the next step, now?"

"Try to find out who made that reproduction," replied Allerdyke bluntly. "No easy job, either!
The ground's continually shifting and changing under one's very feet. But I don't mind telling
you my present theory-- somebody's got information of that jewel deal
from Fullaway's office, somebody who had access to his papers, somebody
who managed to steal that photo of mine from Mrs. Marlow for a few
days or until they could reproduce it.

What I want to find now is-- an idea of that somebody.

And-- I'll get it!-- I'll move heaven and earth to get it! But-- other matters. You say your folks
at the Yard are going to follow up that Perrigo woman's clue? They
think it important, then?"

"In
the case of the Frenchwoman, yes," answered Chettle. He thrust his hand into a side-pocket and
brought out a crumpled paper. "Here's a proof of the bill they're getting out," he said. "They set
to work on that as soon as they'd got the information. That'll be up outside every police-station
in a few hours, and it's gone out to the Press, too."

Allerdyke took the proof, still damp from the machine, and looked it over. It asked, in the usual formal
language, for any information about a young man, dark, presumably a foreigner, who, about the
middle of March, was in the habit of taking two pug dogs, generally bedecked with blue ribbons,
into Kensington Gardens.

"There ought to be some response to that, you know, Mr. Allerdyke," remarked Chettle. "Somebody
must remember and know something about that young fellow.

But, upon my soul, as I said to Blindway just now, I don't know whether
that bill's a mere advertisement or a-- death warrant!"

"Death warrant!" exclaimed Allerdyke. "What d'you mean?"

Chettle chuckled knowingly.

"Mean," he said. "Why, this-- if that young fellow who led pugs about, and talked to Mamselle Lisette
in Kensington Gardens, is another of the cat's paws that this gang evidently made use of, I
should say that when the gang sees he's being searched for, they'll out him, just as they outed
her and Lydenberg. That's what I mean, Mr. Allerdyke-- they'll do him in themselves before
anybody else can get at him! See?"

Allerdyke saw. And when the detective had gone, he threw himself into a chair, lighted one of
his strongest cigars, drew pen, ink, and paper to him, and began to work at his problem with a grim
determination to evolve at any rate a clear theory of its possible
solution.

CHAPTER XXIV CONCERNING CARL FEDERMAN Next morning, as Allerdyke
was leaving the hotel with the intention of going down to Gresham
Street, one of the hall-porters ran after and hailed him.

"You're wanted at the telephone, sir," he said.

"Call for you just come through." Allerdyke went back, to find himself hailed by Blindway. Would he
drive on to the Yard at once and bring Mr. Fullaway with him?-- both
were wanted, particularly in connection with the Perrigo information.

Allerdyke promised for himself, and went upstairs to find Fullaway.

He met him coming down, and gave him the message. Fullaway looked undecided. "You know what I
told you yesterday, Allerdyke," he said. "I didn't want to be bothered
further with these police chaps.

Van Koon and I are on a line of our own, and--" "As you like," interrupted Allerdyke, "but all
the same, if I were in your place I shouldn't refuse a chance of
acquiring information.

Even if you don't want to tell the police anything, that's no reason
why you shouldn't learn something from them."

"There's that in it, certainly," assented Fullaway. "All right.

You get a taxi and I'll join you in a minute or two."

As they got out of one cab at the police headquarters Celia Lennard appeared in another. She
made a little grimace as the two men greeted her.

"Again!" she exclaimed, "What are we going to be treated to now? More
old women with vague stories, I suppose.

What good is it at all? And when am I going to hear something about my jewels?" "You never know
what you're going to hear when you visit these palatial halls," answered
Fullaway.

"You may be going to have the biggest surprise of your life, you know. They sent for you?" "Rang
me up in the middle of my breakfast," answered Celia.

"Well-- let's find out what new sensation this is. Some extraordinary creature on view again, of course."
The creature on view proved to be a little fat man, obviously French
or Swiss, who sat, his rotund figure tightly enveloped in a frock-coat,
the lapel of which was decorated with a bit of ribbon, on the edge
of a chair facing the chief's desk.

He was a nervous, alert little man; his carefully trimmed moustache
and pointed beard quivered with excitement; his dark eyes blazed.

And at sight of the elegantly attired lady he bounced out of his chair, swept his silk hat to the
ground, and executed a deep bow of the most extreme politeness.
"This," observed the chief, with a smile at his visitors, "is Monsieur
Aristide Bonnechose.

M. Bonnechose believes that he can tell us something.

It is a supplement to what Mrs. Perrigo told us yesterday. It relates, of
course to the young man whom Mrs. Perrigo told us of-- the young man
who led pugs in Kensington Gardens."

"The pogs of Madame, my spouse," said M. Bonnechose,
with a bow and a solemn expression. "Two pogs-- Fifi and Chou-Chou." "M.
Bonnechose," continued the chief, regarding his company with yet another
smile, "is the proprietor of a-- what is your establishment, monsieur?"
"Cáfe-restaurant, monsieur," replied M. Bonnechose, promptly and politely.
"Small, but elegant. Of my name, monsieur-- the Cafe Bonnechose,
Oxford Street. Established nine years-- I succeeded to a former proprietor,
Monsieur Jules, on his lamented decease." "I think M. Bonnechose had
better tell us his history in his own fashion," remarked the chief,
looking around.

"You are aware, Mr. Allerdyke, and you, too, Mr.
Fullaway, and so I suppose are you Miss Lennard, that after hearing
what Mrs. Perrigo had to tell us I put out a bill asking for information
about the young man Mrs. Perrigo described, and the matter was also
mentioned in last night's and this morning's papers.

M. Bonnechose
read about it in his newspaper, and so he came here at once. He tells me
that he knew a young man who was good enough during the early spring,
to occasionally take out Madame Bonnechose's prize dogs for an airing.

That seems to have been the
same man referred to by Mrs. Perrigo. Now, M. Bonnechose, give us the details."
M. Bonnechose set down his tall, very Parisian hat on the edge of
the chief's desk, and proceeded to use his hands in conjunction with
his tongue.

"With pleasure, monsieur," he
responded. "It is this way, then. You will comprehend that Madame,
my spouse, and myself are of the busiest. We do not keep a great staff;
accordingly we have much to do ourselves. Consequently we have not
much time to go out, to take the air.

Madame, my spouse, she has a love for the
dogs-- she keeps two, Fifi and Chou-Chou-- pogs. What they call pedigree
dogs-- valuable. Beautiful animals-- but needing exercise. It is
a trouble to Madame that they cannot disport themselves more frequently.
Now, about the beginning of this spring, a young man-- compatriot of my
own-- a Swiss from the Vaud canton-- he begins coming to my cafe. Sometimes
he comes for his lunch-- sometimes he drops in, as they say, for
a cup of coffee. We find out, he and I, that we come from the same district.
In the event, we become friendly." "This young man's name, M. Bonnechose?"
asked the chief. "What we knew him by-- Federman," replied M. Bonnechose.
"Carl Federman. He told me he was looking out for a job as valet to a rich
man.

He had been a waiter-- somewhere in London-- some
hotel, I think-- I did not pay much attention. Anyway, while he was
looking for his job he certainly had plenty of money-- plenty!

He do himself very well with his lunches--
sometimes he come and have his dinner at night. We are not expensive,
you understand-- nice lunch for two shillings, nice dinner for three-- nothing
to him, that-- he always carry plenty of money in his pockets. Well,
then, of course, having nothing to do, often he talks to me and Madame.
One day we talk of the pogs, then walking about the establishment. He
remarks that they are too fat. Madame sighs and says the poor darlings do
not get sufficient exercise. "If it hadn't been for the sheer accident of that clock stopping, we shouldn't
be sitting here on this sofa now, and Dick would be in that chair, and you would just be beginning
to tell him that we are engaged." She sighed. "Poor Dick! What on earth will he do?"

"Strange how things happen!" Simon reflected in a low voice. "But I'm really surprised at that
clock stopping like that. It's a clock that you ought to be able to depend on, that clock is."

He got up to inspect the timepiece. He knew all about the clock, because he had been chairman
of the presentation committee which had gone to Manchester to buy it.

"Why!" he murmured, after he had toyed a little with the pendulum, "it goes all right. Its
tick is as right as rain."

"How odd!" responded Mary.

Simon Loggerheads set the clock by his own impeccable watch, and then sat down again. And he
drew something from his waistcoat pocket and slid it on to Mary's finger.

Mary regarded her finger in silent ecstasy, and then breathed "How lovely!"--not meaning her
finger.

"Shall I stay till he comes back?" asked Simon.

"If I were you I shouldn't do that," said Mary. "But you can safely stay till eleven-thirty.
Then I shall go to bed. He'll be tired and short [curt] when he gets back. I'll tell him myself
to-morrow morning at breakfast. And you might come to-morrow afternoon early, for tea."

Simon did stay till half-past eleven. He left precisely when the clock, now convalescent, struck
the half-hour. At the door Mary said to him:

"I won't have any secrets from you, Simon. It was I who stopped that clock. I stopped it while
they were bending down looking for music. I wanted to be as sure as I could of a good excuse
for me suggesting that he ought to take her home. I just wanted to get him out of the house."

"But why?" asked Simon.

"I must leave that to you to guess," said Mary, with a hint of tartness, but smiling.

Loggerheads and Richard Morfe met in Trafalgar Road.

"Good-night, Morfe."

"'night, Loggerheads!"

And each passed on, without having stopped.

You can picture for yourself the breakfast of the brother and sister.

HOT POTATOES

I

It was considered by certain people to be a dramatic moment in the history of musical enterprise
in the Five Towns when Mrs Swann opened the front door of her house at Bleakridge, in the early
darkness of a November evening, and let forth her son Gilbert. Gilbert's age was nineteen,
and he was wearing evening dress, a form of raiment that had not hitherto happened to him.
Over the elegant suit was his winter overcoat, making him bulky, and round what may be called
the rim of the overcoat was a white woollen scarf, and the sleeves of the overcoat were finished
off with white woollen gloves. Under one arm he carried a vast inanimate form whose extremity
just escaped the ground. This form was his violoncello, fragile as a pretty woman, ungainly
as a navvy, and precious as honour. Mrs Swann looked down the street, which ended to the east
in darkness and a marl pit, and up the street, which ended to the west in Trafalgar Road and
electric cars; and she shivered, though she had a shawl over her independent little shoulders.
In the Five Towns, and probably elsewhere, when a woman puts her head out of her front door,
she always looks first to right and then to left, like a scouting Iroquois, and if the air
nips she shivers--not because she is cold, but merely to express herself.

"For goodness sake, keep your hands warm," Mrs Swann enjoined her son.

"Oh!" said Gilbert, with scornful lightness, as though his playing had never suffered from
cold hands, "it's quite warm to-night!" Which it was not.

"And mind what you eat!" added his mother. "There! I can hear the car."

He hurried up the street. The electric tram slid in thunder down Trafalgar Road, and stopped
for him with a jar, and he gingerly climbed into it, practising all precautions on behalf of
his violoncello. The car slid away again towards Bursley, making blue sparks. Mrs Swann stared
mechanically at the flickering gas in her lobby, and then closed her front door. He was gone!
The boy was gone!

II

And more than the moment--the day, nay, the whole week--was dramatic in the history of local
musical enterprise.

It had occurred to somebody in Hanbridge, about a year before, that since York, Norwich, Hereford,
Gloucester, Birmingham, and even Blackpool had their musical festivals, the Five Towns, too,
ought to have its musical festival. You are pursuing an idea-- that is enough.

In the same way, those who man the lifeboat do not ask credentials from the crew of a sinking ship;
they launch their boat, risk their lives in the raging waves, and sometimes perish, all to save
men whom they do not even know. And what need to know them? "They are human beings, and they need
our aid-- that is enough, that establishes their right---- To the
rescue!"

Thus we find a tendency, eminently communistic, springing up on all sides, and in various guises, in the
very heart of theoretically individualist societies.

Suppose that one of our great cities, so egotistic in ordinary times, were visited to-morrow by some
calamity-- a siege, for instance-- that same selfish city would decide that the first needs
to satisfy were those of the children and the aged. Without asking what services they had rendered,
or were likely to render to society, it would first of all feed them. Then the combatants would
be cared for, irrespective of the courage or the intelligence which
each had displayed, and thousands of men and women would outvie each
other in unselfish devotion to the wounded.

This tendency exists, and is felt as soon as the most pressing needs of each are satisfied,
and in proportion as the productive power of the race increases. It becomes an active force every
time a great idea comes to oust the mean preoccupations of everyday
life.

How can we doubt, then, that when the instruments of production are placed at the service of
all, when business is conducted on Communist principles, when labour, having recovered its place
of honour in society, produces much more than is necessary to all-- how can we doubt that this
force (already so powerful), will enlarge its sphere of action till it becomes the ruling principle
of social life?

Following these indications, and considering further the practical side of expropriation, of
which we shall speak in the following chapters, we are convinced that our first obligation, when
the revolution shall have broken the power upholding the present system, will be to realize Communism
without delay.

But ours is neither the Communism of Fourier and the Phalansteriens, nor of the German State Socialists.
It is Anarchist Communism, Communism without government-- the Communism
of the Free.

It is the synthesis of the two ideals pursued by humanity throughout the ages-- Economic and Political
Liberty.

II In taking "Anarchy" for our ideal of political organization we
are only giving expression to another marked tendency of human progress.

Whenever European societies have developed up to a certain point, they have shaken off the yoke
of authority and substituted a system founded more or less on the principles of individual liberty. And
history shows us that these periods of partial or general revolution, when the old governments
were overthrown, were also periods of sudden, progress both in the economic and the intellectual
field. So it was after the enfranchisement of the communes, whose monuments, produced by the
free labour of the guilds, have never been surpassed; so it was after the great peasant uprising
which brought about the Reformation and imperilled the papacy; and so it was again with the society,
free for a brief space, which was created on the other side of the Atlantic by the malcontents
from the Old world. And, if we observe the present development of
civilized nations, we see, most unmistakably, a movement ever more
and more marked tending to limit the sphere of action of the Government,
and to allow more and more liberty to the individual.

This evolution is going on before our eyes, though cumbered by the ruins and rubbish of old institutions
and old superstitions. Like all evolutions, it only waits a revolution to overthrow the old obstacles
which block the way, that it may find free scope in a regenerated society. After having striven
long in vain to solve the insoluble problem-- the problem of constructing a government "which
will constrain the individual to obedience without itself ceasing to be the servant of society,"
men at last attempt to free themselves from every form of government
and to satisfy their need for organization by free contacts between
individuals and groups pursuing the same aim.

The independence of each small territorial unit becomes a pressing need; mutual agreement replaces
law in order to regulate individual interests in view of a common object-- very often disregarding the
frontiers of the present States. All that was once looked on as a function of the Government is
to-day called in question. Things are arranged more easily and more satisfactorily without the intervention
of the State. And in studying the progress made in this direction, we are led to conclude
that the tendency of the human race is to reduce Government interference to zero; in fact, to abolish the
State, the personification of injustice, oppression, and monopoly.

We can already catch glimpses of a world in which the bonds which bind the individual are no longer
laws, but social habits-- the result of the need felt by each one of us to seek the support,
the co-operation, the sympathy of his neighbours. Assuredly the idea of a society without
a State will give rise to at least as many objections as the political economy of a society without
private capital.

We have all been brought up from our childhood to regard the State as a sort of Providence;
all our education, the Roman history we learned at school, the Byzantine
code which we studied later under the name of Roman law, and the various
sciences taught at the universities, accustom us to believe in Government
and in the virtues of the State providential.

To maintain this superstition whole systems of philosophy have been elaborated and taught; all
politics are based on this principle; and each politician, whatever his colours, comes forward
and says to the people, "Give my party the power; we can and we will free you from the miseries
which press so heavily upon you." From the cradle to the grave all our actions are guided by this
principle. Open any book on sociology or jurisprudence, and you will find there the Government,
its organization, its acts, filling so large a place that we come
to believe that there is nothing outside the Government and the world
of statesmen.

The Press teaches us the same in every conceivable way. Whole columns are devoted to parliamentary
debates and to political intrigues; while the vast everyday life of a nation appears only in the
columns given to economic subjects, or in the pages devoted to reports of police and law cases.
And when you read the newspapers, your hardly think of the incalculable
number of beings-- all humanity, so to say-- who grow up and die,
who know sorrow, who work and consume, think and create outside the
few encumbering personages who have been so magnified that humanity
is hidden by their shadows, enlarged by our ignorance.

And yet as soon as we pass from printed matter to life itself, as soon as we throw a glance at society,
we are struck by the infinitesimal part played by the Government. Balzac already has remarked
how millions of peasants spend the whole of their lives without knowing anything about the State,
save the heavy taxes they are compelled to pay.

Every day millions of transactions are made without Government intervention, and the greatest of them--
those of commerce and of the Exchange-- are carried on in such a
way that the Government could not be appealed to if one of the contracting
parties had the intention of not fulfilling his agreement.

Should you speak to a man who understands commerce, he will tell you that
the everyday business transacted by merchants would be absolutely impossible
were it not based on mutual confidence. The habit of keeping his word,
the desire not to lose his credit, amply suffice to maintain this
relative honesty.

The man who does not feel the slightest remorse when poisoning his customers with noxious drugs
covered with pompous labels, thinks he is in honour bound to keep
his engagements.

But if this relative morality has developed under present conditions,
when enrichment is the only incentive and the only aim, can we doubt
its rapid progress when appropriation of the fruits of others'labour
will no longer be the basis of society?

Another striking fact, which especially characterizes our generation, speaks
still more in favour of our ideas. It is the continual extension of
the field of enterprise due to private initiative, and the prodigious
development of free organizations of all kinds. We shall discuss this more
at length in the chapter devoted to Free Agreement.

Suffice it to mention that the facts are so numerous and so customary that they are the essence
of the second half of the nineteenth century, even though political and socialist writers ignore
them, always preferring to talk to us about the functions of the Government. These organizations,
free and infinitely varied, are so natural an outcome of our civilization; they expand so rapidly and
federate with so much ease; they are so necessary a result of the continual growth of the needs of civilized
man; and lastly, they so advantageously replace governmental interference, that we must recognize
in them a factor of growing importance in the life of societies. If they do not yet spread over
the whole of the manifestations of life, it is that they find an
insurmountable obstacle in the poverty of the worker, in the divisions
of present society, in the private appropriation of capital, and in
the State.

Abolish these obstacles, and you will see them covering the immense field of civilized man's activity.
The history of the last fifty years furnishes a living proof that Representative Government is impotent
to discharge all the functions we have sought to assign to it.

In days to come the nineteenth century will be quoted as having witnessed
the failure of parliamentarianism.

This impotence is becoming so evident to all; the faults of parliamentarianism,
and the inherent vices of the representative principle, are so self-evident,
that the few thinkers who have made a critical study of them (J. S. Mill,
Leverdays), did but give literary form to the popular dissatisfaction.

It is not difficult, indeed, to see the absurdity of naming a few men
and saying to them, "Make laws regulating all our spheres of activity,
although not one of you knows anything about them!" We are beginning
to see that government by majorities means abandoning all the affairs
of the country to the tide-waiters who make up the majorities in
the House and in election committees; to those, in a word, who have
no opinion of their own.

Mankind is seeking and already finding new issues. The International
Postal Union, the railway unions, and the learned societies give us
examples of solutions based on free agreement in place and stead of
law.

To-day, when groups scattered far and wide wish to organize themselves
for some object or other, they no longer elect an international parliament
of Jacks-of-all-trades.

They proceed in a different way. Where it is not possible to meet directly or come to an agreement
by correspondence, delegates versed in the question at issue are sent, and they are told: "Endeavour to
come to an agreement on such or such a question, and then return,
not with a law in your pocket, but with a proposition of agreement
which we may or may not accept."

Such is the method of the great industrial companies, the learned
societies, and numerous associations of every description, which already
cover Europe and the United States.

And such will be the method of a free society. A society founded on serfdom
is in keeping with absolute monarchy; a society based on the wage system and
the exploitation of the masses by the capitalists finds its political
expression in parliamentarianism.

But a free society, regaining possession of the common inheritance, must seek in free groups and
free federations of groups, a new organization, in harmony with the
new economic phase of history.

Every
economic phase has a political phase corresponding to it, and it would be impossible to touch
private property unless a new mode of political life be found at the
same time. CHAPTER IV EXPROPRIATION I It is told of Rothschild that,
seeing his fortune threatened by the Revolution of 1848, he hit upon
the following stratagem: "I am quite willing to admit," said he, "that
my fortune has been accumulated at the expense of others; but if it
were divided to-morrow among the millions of Europe, the share of
each would only amount to four shillings.

Very well, then, I undertake to render to each his four shillings
if he asks me for it."

Having given due publicity to his promise, our millionaire proceeded as usual to stroll quietly through the
streets of Frankfort.

Three or four passers-by asked for their four shillings, which he disbursed with a sardonic smile.
His stratagem succeeded, and the family of the millionaire is still in possession of its wealth. It
is in much the same fashion that the shrewed heads among the middle classes reason when they say, "Ah,
Expropriation! I know what that means. You take all the overcoats and lay them in a heap, and every
one is free to help himself and fight for the best." But such jests
are irrelevant as well as flippant. What we want is not a redistribution
of overcoats, although it must be said that even in such a case,
the shivering folk would see advantage in it.

Nor do we want to divide up the wealth of the Rothschilds. What we do want is so to arrange things that
every human being born into the world shall be ensured the opportunity, in the first instance
of learning some useful occupation, and of becoming skilled in it; and next, that he shall be free to
work at his trade without asking leave of master or owner, and without handing over to landlord or
capitalist the lion's share of what he produces. As to the wealth held by the Rothschilds or the Vanderbilts,
it will serve us to organize our system of communal production. The day when the labourer may till
the ground without paying away half of what he produces, the day
when the machines necessary to prepare the soil for rich harvests
are at the free disposal of the cultivators, the day when the worker
in the factory produces for the community and not the monopolist--
that day will see the workers clothed and fed, and there will be no
more Rothschilds or other exploiters.

No one will then have to sell his working power for a wage that only represents a fraction of
what he produces. "So far, so good," say our critics, "but you will
have Rothschilds coming in from the outside.

How are you to prevent a person from amassing millions in China,
and then settling amongst you?

How are you going to prevent such a one from surrounding himself
with lackeys and wage-slaves-- from exploiting them and enriching
himself at their expense?"

You cannot bring about a revolution all over the world at the same
time.

Well, then-- are you going to establish custom-houses on your frontiers to search all who enter your country and
confiscate the money they bring with them?-- Anarchist policemen firing on travellers would
be a fine spectacle! "But at the root of this argument there is a great error. Those who propound
it have never paused to inquire whence come the fortunes of the rich. A little thought would, however,
suffice to show them that these fortunes have their beginnings in
the poverty of the poor.

When there are no longer any destitute, there will no longer be any rich to exploit them. Let us
glance for a moment at the Middle Ages, when great fortunes began to spring up. A feudal baron seizes
on a fertile valley. But as long as the fertile valley is empty of folk our baron is not rich.
His land brings him in nothing; he might as well possess a property
in the moon.

What does our baron do to enrich himself? He looks out for peasants-- for poor peasants! If every peasant-farmer
had a piece of land, free from rent and taxes, if he had in addition the tools and the stock necessary
for farm labour-- Who would plough the lands of the baron?

Everyone would look after his own. But there are thousands of destitute persons ruined by wars, or drought,
or pestilence. They have neither horse nor plough. (Iron was very
costly in the Middle Ages, and a draught-horse still more so.) All
these destitute creatures are trying to better their condition.

One day they see on the road at the confines of our baron's estate a notice-board indicating
by certain signs adapted to their comprehension that the labourer who is willing to settle on his
estate will receive the tools and materials to build his cottage and
sow his fields, and a portion of land rent free for a certain number
of years. The number of years is represented by so many crosses on the
sign-board, and the peasant understands the meaning of these crosses.

So the poor wretches come to settle on the baron's lands. They make roads, drain the marshes,
build villages.

In nine or ten years the baron begins to tax them. Five years later he increases the rent. Then
he doubles it, and the peasant accepts these new conditions because he cannot find better ones
elsewhere. Little by little, with the aid of laws made by the barons, the poverty of the peasant
becomes the source of the landlord's wealth. And it is not only the lord of the manor who preys upon
him.

A whole host of usurers swoop down upon the villages, multiplying as the wretchedness of the
peasants increases.

That is how these things happened in the Middle Ages. And to-day is
it not still the same thing?

If there were free lands which the peasant could cultivate if he pleased, would he pay£ 50 to some"
shabble of a Duke "[2] for condescending to sell him a scrap? Would he burden himself with a lease
which absorbed a third of the produce?

Would he-- on the métayer system-- consent to give half of his harvest to the landowner? But
he has nothing. So he will accept any conditions, if only he can
keep body and soul together, while he tills the soil and enriches the landlord.
So in the nineteenth century, just as in the Middle Ages, the poverty
of the peasant is a source of wealth to the landed proprietor.

II The landlord owes his riches to the poverty of the peasants, and the wealth of the capitalist
comes from the same source. Take the case of a citizen of the middle class, who somehow or other
finds himself in possession of£ 20,000. He could, of course, spend his money at the rate of£ 2,000
a year, a mere bagatelle in these days of fantastic, senseless luxury.

But then he would have nothing left at the end of ten years. So, being
a" practical person, "he prefers to keep his fortune intact, and
win for himself a snug little annual income as well.

This is very easy in our society, for the good reason that the towns
and villages swarm with workers who have not the wherewithal to live
for a month, or even a fortnight.

So our worthy citizen starts a factory. The banks hasten to lend him another£ 20,000, especially
if he has a reputation for" business ability "; and with this round
sum he can command the labour of five hundred hands.

If all the men and women in the countryside had their daily bread
assured, and their daily needs already satisfied, who would work for
our capitalist at a wage of half a crown a day, while the commodities
one produces in a day sell in the market for a crown or more?

Unhappily-- we know it all too well-- the poor quarters of our towns and the neighbouring villages
are full of needy wretches, whose children clamour for bread. So, before the factory is well finished,
the workers hasten to offer themselves. Where a hundred are required three hundred besiege the doors,
and from the time his mill is started, the owner, if he only has average business capacities,
will clear£ 40 a year out of each mill-hand he employs.

He is thus able to lay by a snug little fortune; and if he chooses a lucrative trade, and has" business
talents, "he will soon increase his income by doubling the number of men he exploits. So he becomes
a personage of importance. He can afford to give dinners to other personages-- to the local magnates,
the civic, legal, and political dignitaries. With his money he can" marry money "; by and by
he may pick and choose places for his children, and later on perhaps get something good from the
Government-- a contract for the army or for the police.

His gold breeds gold; till at last a war, or even a rumour of war, or a speculation on the Stock
Exchange, gives him his great opportunity.

Nine-tenths of the great fortunes made in the United States are (as
Henry George has shown in his"

Social Problems ") the result of knavery on a large scale, assisted
by the State.

In Europe, nine-tenths of the fortunes made in our monarchies and republics have the same origin.
There are not two ways of becoming a millionaire. This is the secret of wealth: find the starving
and destitute, pay them half a crown, and make them produce five
shillings worth in the day, amass a fortune by these means, and then
increase it by some lucky speculation, made with the help of the
State.

Need we go on to speak of small fortunes attributed by the economists to forethought and frugality,
when we know that mere saving in itself brings in nothing, so long
as the pence saved are not used to exploit the famishing? Take a shoemaker,
for instance.

Grant that his work is well paid, that he has plenty of custom, and that by dint of strict frugality
he contrives to lay by from eighteen pence to two shillings a day,
perhaps two pounds a month.

Grant that our shoemaker is never ill, that he does not half starve
himself, in spite of his passion for economy; that he does not marry
or that he has no children; that he does not die of consumption;
suppose anything and everything you please!

Well, at the age of fifty he will not have scraped together£ 800; and
he will not have enough to live on during his old age, when he is
past work.

Assuredly this is not how fortunes are made.

But suppose our shoemaker, as soon as he has laid by a few pence, thriftily conveys them to the
savings bank and that the savings bank lends them to the capitalist
who is just about to" employ labour, "i. e., to exploit the poor.

Then our shoemaker takes an apprentice, the child of some poor wretch, who will think himself lucky
if in five years'time his son has learned the trade and is able to
earn his living.

The other potato, escaping Mrs Swann's vigilance, had run out of the muff and come to the carpet
with a dull thud. It rolled half under Mrs Swann's dress. Almost hysterically she put her foot
on it, thus making pulp of the second potato.

"What?" she inquired innocently.

"Didn't you hear anything? I trust it isn't a mouse! We have had them once."

Mrs Clayton Vernon thought how brave Mrs Swann was, not to be frightened by the word "mouse."

"I didn't hear anything," said Mrs Swann. Another untruth.

"If you aren't too warm, won't you come a little nearer the fire?"

But not for a thousand pounds would Mrs Swann have exposed the mush of potato on the carpet
under her feet. She could not conceive in what ignominy the dreadful affair would end, but
she was the kind of woman that nails her colours to the mast.

"Dear me!" Mrs Clayton Vernon murmured. "How delicious those potatoes do smell! I can smell
them all over the house."

This was the most staggering remark that Mrs Swann had ever heard.

"Potatoes? very weakly.

"Yes," said Mrs Clayton Vernon, smiling. "I must tell you that Mr Millwain is very nervous
about getting his hands cold in driving to Hanbridge. And he has asked me to have hot potatoes
prepared. Isn't it amusing? It seems hot potatoes are constantly used for this purpose in winter
by the pupils of the Royal College of Music, and even by the professors. My cousin says that
even a slight chilliness of the hands interferes with his playing. So I am having potatoes
done for your son too. A delightful boy he is!"

"Really!" said Mrs Swann. On the next an investigation followed, when the teacher was dismissed,
and those guilty of the act of insubordination were admonished.

Dr. Thomas Rolph thus refers to the state of schools two years later: "It is really melancholy
to traverse the Province and go into many of the common schools;
you find a brood of children, instructed by some Anti-British adventurer,
instilling into the young and tender mind sentiments hostile to the
parent State; false accounts of the late war in which Great Britain
was engaged with the United States; geography setting forth New York,
Philadelphia, Boston,& c., as the largest and finest cities in the
world; historical reading books describing the American population
as the most free and enlightened under heaven, insisting on the superiority
of their laws and institutions to those of all the world, in defiance
of the agrarian outrages and mob supremacy daily witnessed and lamented;
and American spelling books, dictionaries, and grammars, teaching
them an Anti-British dialect and idiom, although living in a British
Province and being subjects to the British Crown."

There was a Board of Education consisting of five members appointed to each district, who had the over-sight
of the schools. Each school section met annually at what was called the School meeting, and appointed
three trustees, who engaged teachers, and superintended the general management of the schools in
their section. The law required that every teacher should be a British subject, or that he should
take the oath of allegiance. He was paid a fee of fifteen shillings per quarter for each scholar,
and received a further sum of$ 100 from the Government if there were not fewer than twenty
scholars taught in the school.

Upper Canada College, the only one in the Province, began this year (1830), under the management
of Dr. Harris. Grantham Academy, in the Niagara District, was incorporated, and the Methodist
Conference appointed a Committee to take up subscriptions to build an academy and select a
site.

The last named, when built, was located at Cobourg, and the building which was begun in 1832
was completed in 1836, when the school was opened.

There were 11 district and 132 common schools, with an attendance
of 3,677, and an expenditure of L3, 866 11s 61/ 2 d. There was very
little change in our school laws for several years.

Grants were annually
made in aid of common schools, but there was no system in the expenditure;
consequently the good effected was not very apparent.

The first really practical school law was passed in 1841, the next
year when the union of the Provinces went into effect; and in 1844 Dr.
Ryerson was appointed Chief Superintendent of Education for Upper
Canada, which office he held for thirty-two years.

During that time, through his indefatigable labours, our school laws have been moulded and perfected,
until it is safe to say we have the most complete and efficient school system in the world.
The influence it has exercised on the intellectual development of
the people has been very great, and it is but reasonable to expect
that it will continue to raise the standard of intelligence and high
moral character throughout the land.

Our Government has, from the very first, manifested an earliest desire
to promote education in the Province. During Dr. Ryerson's long term
of office, it liberally supplied him with the necessary means for
maturing his plans and introducing such measures as would place our
educational system on the best footing that could be devised.

This has been accomplished in a way that does honour, not only to
the head that conceived it, but to the enlightened liberality of the
Government that seconded the untiring energy of the man who wrought
it out.

The advantages which the youth of Ontario to-day possess in acquiring
an education over the time when I was first sent to school with dinner
basket in hand, trudging along through mud or snow, to the old school-house
by the road side, where I was perched upon a high pine bench without
a back, with a Mavor's spelling book in hand, to begin the foundation
of my education, are so many and great that it is difficult to realize
the state of things that existed, or that men of intelligence should
have selected such a dry and unattractive method of imparting instruction
to children of tender years.

It is to be feared that there are many of our Canadian youth who do
not appreciate the vantage ground they occupy, nor the inviting opportunities
that lie within the reach of all to obtain a generous education. There
is absolutely nothing to prevent any young person possessing the
smallest spark of ambition from acquiring it, and making himself a
useful member of society.

There seems to be a growing disposition in the public mind to do
away with the first important educational landmark established in the
Province. Why this should be, or why its influence for good should
at any time have been so much crippled as even to give occasion to
call its usefulness in question seems strange.

One would think that its intimate connection with our early history;
the good work accomplished by it, and the number of men who have passed
out of it to fill the highest public positions in the gift of the Province,
would save it from violent hands, and furnish ample reasons for devising
means to resuscitate it, if it needs resuscitation, and to place it
in a position to hold its own with the various institutions that have
come into existence since its doors were first thrown open to the young
aspirants for a higher education half a century ago. The opening of
Upper Canada College in 1830 gave an impetus to education which soon
began to be felt throughout the Province.

It was impossible, in the nature of things, that with increasing population and wealth there should
be no advance in our educational status. If the forty-six years that
had passed had been almost exclusively devoted to clearing away the
bush and tilling the land, a time had now arrived when matters of
higher import to future success and enjoyment pressed themselves upon
the attention of the people.

The farm could not produce all the requirements of life, nor furnish
congenial employment to many active minds. The surplus products of the
field and forest, in order to become available as a purchasing power,
had to be converted into money, and this set in motion the various
appliances of commerce.

Vessels were needed to carry their produce to market, and merchants to purchase it, who, in turn,
supplied the multifarious wants of the household. Then came the mechanic and the professional man,
and with the latter education was a necessity. It was not to be expected that the tastes of the
rising generation would always run in the same groove with the preceding, and as wealth and population
increased, so did the openings for advancement in other pursuits; and scores of active young
men throughout the Province were only too anxious to seize upon every opportunity that offered
to push their way up in life. Hence it happened that when Upper Canada College first threw open its
doors, more than a hundred young men enrolled their names. In a comparatively short time the need
for greater facilities urged the establishment of other educational institutions, and this led
to still greater effort to meet the want.

Again, as the question pressed itself more and more upon the public mind,
laws were enacted and grants made to further in every way so desirable
an object.

Hence, what was a crude and inadequate school organization prior to 1830, at that time and afterwards
began to assume a more concrete shape, and continued to improve until it has grown into a system
of which the country may well be proud. The contrast we are enabled to present is wonderful
in every respect. Since the parent college opened its doors to the anxious youths of the Province,
five universities and the same number of colleges have come into existence. The faculties of
these several institutions are presided over by men of learning and ability. They are amply
furnished with libraries, apparatus and all the modern requirements
of first-class educational institutions.

Their united rolls show an attendance of about 1,500 students last
year. There are 10 Collegiate Institutes and 94 High Schools, with an
attendance of 12,136 pupils; 5,147 Public Schools, with 494,424 enrolled
scholars; and the total receipts for school purposes amounted to$
3,226,730.

Besides these, there are three Ladies'Colleges, and several other important
educational establishments devoted entirely to the education of females,
together with private and select schools in almost every city and
town in the Province, many of which stand very high in public estimation.

There are two Normal Schools for the training of teachers. The one in Toronto has been in existence
for 29 years, and is so well known that it is unnecessary for me to
attempt any description of it. The total number of admissions since
its foundation have been 8,269. The Ottawa school, which has been
in operation about two years, has admitted 433. Three other important
educational institutions have been established by the Government
in different parts of the Province.

The Deaf and Dumb Institute at Belleville is pleasantly situated on the shore of the Bay of Quinte,
a little west of the city.

The number in attendance is 269, and the cost of maintenance for the past year$ 38,589. The Institute
for the Blind at Brantford numbers 200 inmates, and the annual expenditure is about$ 30,000. These
institutions, erected at a very large outlay, are admirably equipped, and under the best management,
and prove a great boon to the unfortunate classes for whom they were established. The Agricultural
College at Guelph, for the training of young men in scientific and practical husbandry, though
in its infancy, is a step in the right direction, and must exercise
a beneficial influence upon the agricultural interests of the country.

Of
medical corporations and schools, there are the Council of the College
of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario; the Faculty of the Toronto
School of Medicine; Trinity Medical School; Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons; Canada Medical Association; Ontario College of Pharmacy;
Royal College of Dental Surgeons; and Ontario Veterinary College.

There is also a School of Practical Science, now in its fourth year.
This, though not a complete list of the educational institutions and
schools of the Province, will nevertheless give a pretty correct
idea of the progress made during the fifty years that are gone.

The accommodation furnished by the school sections throughout the
country has kept pace with the progress of the times.

As a rule the school-houses are commodious, and are built with an eye
to the health and comfort of the pupils.

The old pine benches and desks have disappeared before the march of improvement-- my recollection of them is
anything but agreeable-- and the school-rooms are furnished with comfortable seats and desks combined.
The children are no longer crowded together in small, unventilated
rooms.

Blackboards, maps and apparatus are furnished to all schools. Trained teachers only are employed, and a
uniform course of study is pursued, so that each Public School is a
stepping-stone to the High School, and upward to the College or University.
Great attention has been paid by the Education Department to the
selection of a uniform series of text books throughout the course,
adapted to the age and intelligence of the scholars; and if any fault
can be found with it, I think it should be in the number.

The variety required in a full course-- even of English study-- is a serious matter. The authorities,
however, have laboured earnestly to remove every difficulty that
lies in the student's path, and to make the way attractive and easy.

That they have succeeded to a very great extent is evident from the
highly satisfactory report recently presented by the Minister of
Education.

With the increasing desire for a better education there seems to be
a growing tendency on the part of young men to avail themselves of
such aids as shall push them towards the object in view with the smallest
amount of work; and instead of applying themselves with energy and
determination to overcome the difficulties that face them in various
branches of study, they resort to the keys that may be had in any
bookstore.

It is needless to repeat what experience has proved, in thousands of
instances, that the young man who goes through his mathematical course
by the aid of these, or through his classical studies by the use of
translations, will never make a scholar.

Permanent success in any department of life depends on earnest work, and the more arduous the toil
to secure an object, so much the more is it prized when won. Furthermore, it is certain to
prove more lasting and beneficial. The same causes that hindered the progress of education also
retarded the advance of religion. The first years of a settler's life are years of unremitting toil; a
struggle, in fact, for existence. Yet, though settlers had now in
a measure overcome their greater difficulties, the one absorbing
thought that had ground its way into the very marrow of their life
still pressed its claims upon their attention.

The paramount question with them had been how to get on in the world. They were cut off, too, from all the
amenities of society, and were scattered over a new country, which, prior to their coming, had been the
home of the Indian-- where all the requirements of civilization had
to be planted and cultivated anew.

They had but barely reached a point when really much attention could be devoted to anything but the
very practical aim of gaining their daily bread. It will readily be admitted that there is no condition
in life that can afford to put away religious instruction, and there is no doubt that the people
at first missed these privileges, and often thought of the time when they visited God's House with
regularity.

But the toil and moil of years had worn away these recollections,
and weakened the desire for sacred things. There can be no doubt that
prior to, and even up to 1830, the religious sentiment of the greater
portion of the people was anything but strong.

The Methodists were among the first, if not actually the first, to
enter the field and call them back to the allegiance they owed to
the God who had blessed and protected them.

[Footnote: Dr. Stuart, of Kingston, Church of England, was the first minister in Upper Canada,
Mr. Langworth, of the same denomination, in Bath; and Mr. Scamerhorn,
Lutheran minister at Williamsburgh, next.] Colonels Neal and McCarty
began to preach in 1788, but the latter was hunted out of the country.

[Footnote: Playter.] Three years later, itinerant preachers began
their work and gathered hearers, and made converts in every settlement.
But these men, the most of whom came from the United States, were
looked upon with suspicion [Footnote: I have in my possession an old
manuscript book, written by my grandfather in 1796, in which this
point is brought out.

Being a Quaker, he naturally did not approve of the way those early
preachers conducted services.

Yet he would not be likely to exaggerate what came under his notice. This is what he says of one
he heard: "I thought he exerted every nerve by the various positions
in which he placed himself to cry, stamp and smite, often turning
from exhortation to prayer. He has such nice curly hair, and his eyes--haven't you noticed
his eyes? His father says he's idle. But all fathers say that of their sons. I suppose you'll
admit anyhow that he's one of the best-dressed youths in the Five Towns. Anyone might think
he got his clothes in London, but he doesn't. It seems there's a simply marvellous tailor in
Bursley, and Ellis and all his friends go to him. His father is always grumbling at the bills,
so his mother told me. Well, when I was at their house in July, there happened to come for
Ellis one of those fiat boxes that men's tailors always pack suits in, and so I thought I might
as well show a great deal of curiosity about it, and I did. And Ellis undid it in the breakfast-room
(his father wasn't there) and showed me a lovely blue suit. I asked him to go upstairs and
put it on. He wouldn't at first, but his sisters and I worried him till he gave way.

He came downstairs again like Solomon in all his glory. It really was a lovely suit. No--seriously,
I'm not joking. It was a dream. He was very shy in it. I must say men are funny. Even when
they really like having new clothes and cutting a figure, they simply hate putting them on
for the first time. Ellis is that way. I don't know how many suits that boy hasn't got--sheer
dandyism!--and yet he'll keep a new suit in the house a couple of months before wearing it!
Now that's the sort of thing that I call "interesting." So curious, isn't it? Ellis wouldn't
keep that suit on. No; as soon as we'd done admiring it he disappeared and changed it.

Now I'd gone that day to ask Ellis to escort me to Llandudno the week after. He likes going
about with his auntie, and his auntie likes to have him. And of course she sees that it doesn't
cost him anything. But his father has to be placated first. There's another funny thing! His
father is always grumbling that Ellis is absolutely no good at all at the works, but the moment
there's any question of Ellis going away for a holiday--even if it's only a week-end--then
his father turns right round and wants to make out that Ellis is absolutely indispensable. III Moreover, it is by no means necessary to make straightway an absolutely
equal redistribution of all the dwellings.

There will
no doubt be some inconveniences at first, but matters will soon be righted in a society which has adopted
expropriation. When the masons, and carpenters, and all who are
concerned in house building, know that their daily bread is secured
to them, they will ask nothing better than to work at their old trades
a few hours a day.

They will adapt the fine houses, which absorbed the time of a whole staff of servants, for giving
shelter to several families, and in a few months homes will have sprung up, infinitely healthier
and more conveniently arranged than those of to-day. And to those who are not yet comfortably
housed the anarchist Commune will be able to say: "Patience, comrades! Palaces fairer and finer
than any the capitalists built for themselves will spring from the ground of our enfranchised
city. They will belong to those who have most need of them. The anarchist Commune does not build
with an eye to revenues. These monuments erected to its citizens, products
of the collective spirit, will serve as models to all humanity; they
will be yours."

If the people of the Revolution expropriate the houses and proclaim
free lodgings-- the communalizing of houses and the right of each
family to a decent dwelling-- then the Revolution will have assumed
a communistic character from the first, and started on a course from
which it will be by no means easy to turn it.

It will have struck a fatal blow at individual property. For the expropriation of dwellings
contains in germ the whole social revolution. On the manner of its accomplishment depends the
character of all that follows.

Either we shall start on a good road leading straight to anarchist communism, or we shall remain sticking
in the mud of despotic individualism. It is easy to see the numerous objections-- theoretic
on the one hand, practical on the other-- with which we are sure
to be met.

As it will be a question of maintaining iniquity at any price, our
opponents will of course protest "in the name of justice."

"Is it not a crying shame," they will exclaim, "that the people of Paris
should take possession of all these fine houses, while the peasants
in the country have only tumble-down huts to live in?"

But do not let us make a mistake. These enthusiasts for justice
forget, by a lapse of memory to which they are subject, the "crying
shame" which they themselves are tacitly defending.

They forget that in this same city the worker, with his wife and children, suffocates in a noisome
garret, while from his window he sees the rich man's palace.

They forget that whole generations perish in crowded slums, starving for air and sunlight, and that
to redress this injustice ought to be the first task of the Revolution.

Do not let these disingenuous protests hold us back. We know that any
inequality which may exist between town and country in the early
days of the Revolution will be transitory and of a nature that will
right itself from day to day; for the village will not fail to improve
its dwellings as soon as the peasant has ceased to be the beast of
burden of the farmer, the merchant, the money-lender, and the State.

In order to avoid an accidental and transitory inequality, shall we stay our hand from righting
an ancient wrong? The so-called practical objections are not very formidable either. We are bidden
to consider the hard case of some poor fellow who by dint of privation has contrived to buy
a house just large enough to hold his family. And we are going to deprive him of his hard-earned
happiness, to turn him into the street! Certainly not. If his house is only just large enough for his family,
by all means let him stay there. Let him work in his little garden, too; our "boys" will not hinder
him-- nay, they will lend him a helping hand if need be. But suppose he lets lodgings, suppose he
has empty rooms in his house; then the people will make the lodger
understand that he need not pay his former landlord any more rent.

Stay where you are, but rent free. No more duns and collectors; Socialism has abolished all that!
Or again, suppose that the landlord has a score of rooms all to himself, and some poor woman lives
near by with five children in one room. In that case the people would see whether, with some alterations,
these empty rooms could not be converted into a suitable home for the poor woman and her five
children. Would not that be more just and fair than to leave the mother and her five little ones languishing
in a garret, while Sir Gorgeous Midas sat at his ease in an empty
mansion?

Besides, good Sir Gorgeous would probably hasten to do it of his own accord; his wife will be delighted
to be freed from half her big, unwieldy house when there is no longer a staff of servants to keep
it in order. "So you are going to turn everything upside down," say the defenders of law
and order. "There will be no end to the evictions and removals. Would it not be better to start
fresh by turning everybody out of doors and redistributing the houses by lot?" Thus our critics;
but we are firmly persuaded that if no Government interferes in the matter, if all the changes
are entrusted to these free groups which have sprung up to undertake
the work, the evictions and removals will be less numerous than those
which take place in one year under the present system, owing to the
rapacity of landlords.

In the first place, there are in all large towns almost enough empty
houses and flats to lodge all the inhabitants of the slums.

As
to the palaces and suites of fine apartments, many working people would not live in them if they
could. One could not "keep up" such houses without a large staff of servants. Their occupants
would soon find themselves forced to seek less luxurious dwellings. The fine ladies would find
that palaces were not well adapted to self-help in the kitchen. Gradually people would shake
down. There would be no need to conduct Dives to a garret at the bayonet's point, or install Lazarus in
Dives's palace by the help of an armed escort. People would shake down amicably into the available
dwellings with the least possible friction and disturbance. Have we not the example of the
village communes redistributing fields and disturbing the owners
of the allotments so little that one can only praise the intelligence
and good sense of the methods they employ?

Fewer fields change hands under the management of the Russian Commune than where personal property
holds sway, and is for ever carrying its quarrels into courts of law. And are we to believe that the inhabitants
of a great European city would be less intelligent and less capable of organization than Russian
or Hindoo peasants? Moreover, we must not blink at the fact that every revolution means a certain
disturbance to everyday life, and those who expect this tremendous climb out of the old grooves to
be accomplished without so much as jarring the dishes on their dinner
tables will find themselves mistaken.

It
is true that Governments can change without disturbing worthy citizens at dinner, but the crimes
of society towards those who have nourished and supported it are not to be redressed by any such
political sleight of parties. Undoubtedly there will be a disturbance, but it must not be
one of pure loss; it must be minimized. And again-- it is impossible to lay too much stress on this
maxim-- it will be by addressing ourselves to the interested parties, and not to boards and
committees, that we shall best succeed in reducing the sum of inconveniences for everybody. The
people commit blunder on blunder when they have to choose by ballot some hare-brained candidate
who solicits the honour of representing them, and takes upon himself
to know all, to do all, and to organize all.

But when they take upon themselves to organize what they know, what touches them directly, they
do it better than all the "talking-shops" put together. Is not the Paris
Commune an instance in point? and the great dockers'strike? and have
we not constant evidence of this fact in every village commune?

FOOTNOTE: [5] The decree of the 30 March: by this decree rents due up
to the terms of October, 1870, and January and April, 1871, were
annulled.

CHAPTER VII CLOTHING When the houses have become the common heritage
of the citizens, and when each man has his daily supply of food, another
forward step will have to be taken.

The question of clothing will of course demand consideration next, and again the only possible solution
will be to take possession, in the name of the people, of all the shops and warehouses where clothing
is sold or stored, and to throw open the doors to all, so that each can take what he needs. The
communalization of clothing-- the right of each to take what he needs from the communal stores, or
to have it made for him at the tailors and outfitters-- is a necessary corollary of the communalization
of houses and food.

Obviously we shall not need for that to despoil all citizens of their coats, to put all the garments
in a heap and draw lots for them, as our critics, with equal wit and
ingenuity, suggest. Let him who has a coat keep it still-- nay, if
he have ten coats it is highly improbable that any one will want to
deprive him of them, for most folk would prefer a new coat to one
that has already graced the shoulders of some fat bourgeois; and there
will be enough new garments, and to spare, without having recourse
to second-hand wardrobes.

If we were to take an inventory of all the clothes and stuff for clothing accumulated in the shops
and stores of the large towns, we should find probably that in Paris, Lyons, Bordeaux, and Marseilles,
there was enough to enable the commune to offer garments to all the
citizens, of both sexes; and if all were not suited at once, the communal
outfitters would soon make good these shortcomings.

We know how rapidly our great tailoring and dressmaking establishments
work nowadays, provided as they are with machinery specially adapted
for production on a large scale.

"But every one will want a sable-lined coat or a velvet gown!" exclaim our adversaries. Frankly,
we do not believe it.

Every woman does not dote on velvet nor does every man dream of sable
linings.

Even now, if we were to ask each woman to choose her gown, we should find some to prefer a simple,
practical garment to all the fantastic trimmings the fashionable
world affects.

Tastes change with the times, and the fashion in vogue at the time
of the Revolution will certainly make for simplicity.

Societies, like individuals, have their hours of cowardice, but also
their heroic moments; and though the society of to-day cuts a very
poor figure sunk in the pursuit of narrow personal interests and second-rate
ideas, it wears a different air when great crises come.

It has its moments of greatness and enthusiasm. Men of generous nature
will gain the power which to-day is in the hand of jobbers. Self-devotion
will spring up, and noble deeds beget their like; even the egotists
will be ashamed of hanging back, and will be drawn in spite of themselves
to admire, if not to imitate, the generous and brave.

The great Revolution of 1793 abounds in examples of this kind, and
it is always during such times of spiritual revival-- as natural to
societies as to individuals-- that the spring-tide of enthusiasm sweeps
humanity onwards. We do not wish to exaggerate the part played by such
noble passions, nor is it upon them that we would found our ideal
of society.

But we are not asking too much if we expect their aid in tiding over the first and most difficult
moments. We cannot hope that our daily life will be continuously inspired by such exalted
enthusiasms, but we may expect their aid at the first, and that is
all we need.

It is just to wash the earth clean, to sweep away the shards and refuse, accumulated by centuries
of slavery and oppression, that the new anarchist society will have need of this wave of brotherly
love. Later on it can exist without appealing to the spirit of self-sacrifice, because it will
have eliminated oppression, and thus created a new world instinct with all the feelings of
solidarity. Besides, should the character of the Revolution be such as we have sketched here,
the free initiative of individuals would find an extensive field
of action in thwarting the efforts of the egotists.

Groups would spring up in every street and quarter to undertake the charge of the clothing.
They would make inventories of all that the city possessed, and would find out approximately
what were the resources at their disposal. It is more than likely that in
the matter of clothing the citizens would adopt the same principle
as in the matter of provisions-- that is to say, they would offer
freely from the common store everything which was to be found in abundance,
and dole out whatever was limited in quantity.

Not being able to offer to each man a sable-lined coat and to every woman a velvet gown, society
would probably distinguish between the superfluous and the necessary,
and, provisionally at least class sable and velvet among the superfluities
of life, ready to let time prove whether what is a luxury to-day may
not become common to all to-morrow.

While the necessary clothing would be guaranteed to each inhabitant
of the anarchist city, it would be left to private activity to provide
for the sick and feeble those things, provisionally considered as
luxuries, and to procure for the less robust such special articles,
as would not enter into the daily consumption of ordinary citizens.

"But," it may be urged, "this means grey uniformity and the end of everything beautiful in
life and art." "Certainly not," we reply. And, still basing our reasonings on what already exists,
we are going to show how an Anarchist society could satisfy the most
artistic tastes of its citizens without allowing them to amass the
fortunes of millionaires.

CHAPTER
VIII WAYS AND MEANS I If a society, a city or a territory were to
guarantee the necessaries of life to its inhabitants (and we shall
see how the conception of the necessaries of life can be so extended
as to include luxuries), it would be compelled to take possession
of what is absolutely needed for production; that is to say-- land,
machinery, factories, means of transport, etc. Capital in the hands
of private owners would be expropriated, to be returned to the community.

The great harm done by bourgeois society, as we have already mentioned, is not only that capitalists
seize a large share of the profits of each industrial and commercial enterprise, thus enabling
themselves to live without working, but that all production has taken a wrong direction, as
it is not carried on with a view to securing well-being to all. There is the reason why it must
be condemned. It is absolutely impossible that mercantile production should be carried on in the
interest of all. To desire it would be to expect the capitalist to go beyond his province and to
fulfil duties that he cannot fulfil without ceasing to be what he
is-- a private manufacturer seeking his own enrichment.

Capitalist organization, based on the personal interest of each individual employer of labour, has
given to society all that could be expected of it: it has increased the productive force of Labour.
The capitalist, profiting by the revolution effected in industry
by steam, by the sudden development of chemistry and machinery, and
by other inventions of our century, has worked in his own interest
to increase the yield of human labour, and in a great measure he has
succeeded so far.

But to attribute other duties to him would be unreasonable. For example, to expect that he should
use this superior yield of labour in the interest of society as a whole, would be to ask philanthropy
and charity of him, and a capitalist enterprise cannot be based on charity. It now remains for society,
first, to extend this greater productivity, which is limited to certain industries, and to apply it
to the general good.

But it is evident that to utilize this high productivity of labour, so as
to guarantee well-being to all, Society must itself take possession of all
means of production.



Everybody said what a very curious coincidence! Ellis avoided my eyes, and I avoided his....
Will you believe me that when we "had it out" afterwards, he and I, that boy was seriously
angry. He suspected me of a plan "to make the best of him" during the stay with the Smiths,
and he very strongly objected to being "made the best of." His notion apparently was that even
his worst was easily good enough for my Colonial friends, although, as he'd have said, they
had "simply wiped the floor with him" in the billiard-room. Anyhow, he was furious. He actually
used the word "unwarrantable," and it was rather a long word for a mere stripling of a nephew
to use to an auntie who was paying all his expenses. However, he's a nice enough boy at the
bottom, and soon got down off his high horse. I must tell you that Nellie Smith wore that jacket
all day, quite without any concern. These Colonials don't really seem to mind what they wear.
At any rate she didn't. She was just as much at ease in that jacket as she had been in her
gorgeousness the evening before. And she and Ellis were walking about together all day. The
next day of course we all left. We couldn't stay, seeing the state we were in.... Now, don't
you think it's a very curious story?

Thus spake Mrs Ellis across the tea-table in an alcove at the Hanover.

"But you've not finished the story!" I explained.

"Yes, I have," she said.

"You haven't explained what you were doing at my tailor's in Sackville Street."

"Oh!" she cried, "I was forgetting that. Well, I promised Ellis a new suit. And as I wanted
to show him that after all I had larger ideas about tailoring than he had, I told him I knew
a very good tailor's in Sackville Street--a real West End tailor--and that if he liked he could
have his presentation suit made there. He pooh-poohed the offer at first, and pretended that
his Bursley tailor was just as good as any of your West End tailors. But at last he accepted.
You see--it meant an authorized visit to London.... I'd been into the tailor's just now to
pay the bill. That's all."

"But even now," I said, "you haven't finished the story."

"Yes, I have," she replied again.

"What about Nellie Smith?" I demanded. "Very well, Mr. Allerdyke," he said, in conclusion. "Leave
the thing with me, and I will see what I can do. As I say, the proper course will be to get
it tried on one of the smaller railway lines-- if it answers there,
we can, perhaps, induce one of the bigger companies to take it up.

I'll do my best."

Allerdyke thanked him and rose.

He had certainly done something for his man Gankrodgers, and he had
seen Ramsay, or Rayner, at close quarters, but-- Ramsay was speaking
again.

He had picked up Allerdyke's card, and glanced from it to its presenter,
half shyly.

"You're the cousin of the Mr. Allerdyke whose name's been in the papers
so much in connection with this murder and robbery affair, I suppose?"
he said.

"I've seen your own name, of course, in the various accounts."

"I am," replied Allerdyke. He had moved towards the door, but he turned and looked at his questioner.
"You followed it, then?" he asked.

"Yes," assented Ramsay. "Closely. A curiously intricate case."

"Any solution of it present itself to your mind?" asked Allerdyke in his brusque, downright
fashion. "Got any theory?"

Ramsay smiled and shook his finely shaped head. He, too, rose, walking towards the door.
"It's a little early for that, isn't it?" he said. "I've studied
these affairs-- criminology, you know-- for many years. In my opinion,
it's a mistake to be too hasty in trying to arrive at solutions. But,"
he added, with a shrug of his misshapen shoulders, "it's always the
way of the police, and of most folk who try to get at the truth. Things
that are deep down need some deep digging for!"

"There's the question
of the present whereabouts of nearly three hundred thousand pounds'worth
of jewels," remarked Allerdyke grimly. "Remember that!" Another detail to show that the Peels had not precisely
failed in life: the time was then ten-thirty o'clock! Millions of persons in London had already
been at hard work for hours.

And indeed George Peel was not merely a young sculptor of marked talent; he was also a rising
young sculptor. For instance, when you mentioned his name in artistic circles the company signified
that it knew whom you meant, and those members of the company who had never seen his work had
to feel ashamed of themselves. Further, he had lately been awarded the Triennial Gold Medal
of the International Society, an honour that no Englishman had previously achieved. His friends
and himself had, by the way, celebrated this dazzling event by a noble and joyous gathering
in the studio, at which famous personages had been present.

Everybody knew that George Peel, in addition to what he earned, had important "private resources."
For even rising young sculptors cannot live luxuriously on what they gain, and you cannot eat
gold medals. Nor will gold medals pay a heavy rent or the cost of manual help in marble cutting.
All other rising young sculptors envied George Peel, and he rather condescended to them (in
his own mind) because they had to keep up appearances by means of subterfuges, whereas there
was no deception about his large and ample existence.

On the table by Mary's plate was a letter, the sole letter. It had come by the second post.
The contents of the first post had been perused in bed. While Mary was scraping porridge off
the younger George's bib with a spoon, and wiping porridge out of his eyes with a serviette,
George the elder gave just a glance at the letter.

"So he has written after all!" said George, in a voice that tried to be nonchalant.

"Who?" asked Mary, although she had already seen the envelope, and knew exactly what George
meant. And her voice also was unnatural in its attempted casualness.

"The old cock," said George, beginning to serve bacon.

"Oh!" said Mary, coming to her chair, and beginning to dispense tea.

She was dying to open the letter, yet she poured out the tea with superhuman leisureliness,
and then indicated to Georgie exactly where to search for bits of porridge on his big plate,
while George with a great appearance of calm unfolded a newspaper. Then at length she did open
the letter. Having read it, she put her lips tighter together, nodded, and passed the letter
to George. And George read:

"DEAR MARY,--I cannot accede to your request.--Your affectionate uncle, SAMUEL PEEL.

"P.S.--The expenses connected with my County Council election will be terrible. S.P."

George lifted his eyebrows, as if to indicate that in his opinion there was no accounting for
the wild stupidity of human nature, and that he as a philosopher refused to be startled by
anything whatever.

"Curt!" he muttered coldly.

Mary uneasily laughed.

"What shall you do?" she inquired.

"Without!" replied George, with a curtness that equalled Mary's uncle's.

"And what about the rent?"

"The rent will have to wait."

A brave young man! Nevertheless he saw in that moment chasms at his feet--chasms in which he
and his wife and child and his brilliant prospects might be swallowed up. He changed the subject.

"You didn't see this cutting," he said, and passed a slip from a newspaper gummed to a piece
of green paper.

George, in his quality of rising young sculptor, received Press cuttings from an agency. This
one was from a somewhat vulgar Society journal, and it gave, in two paragraphs, an account
of the recent festivity at George's studio. It finished with the words: "Heidsieck flowed freely."
He could not guess who had written it. No! It was not in the nicest taste, but it furnished
indubitable proof that George was still rising, that he was a figure in the world. "What a
rag!" he observed, with an explosion of repugnance. "Read by suburban shop-girls, I suppose."

II

George had arranged his career in a quite exceptional way. It is true that chance had served
him; but then he had known how to make use of chance to the highest advantage. As to the work itself,
there is no townsman of either sex so enfeebled as to be incapable of looking after machines
and of contributing his share to agrarian work after a few hours'apprenticeship.

Well, when we consider that in the present chaos there are, in a city like Paris, without counting the unemployed
of the upper classes, there are always about 100,000 workmen out of work in their several trades,
we see that the power lost in our present organization would alone suffice to give, with a rational
culture, all the bread that is necessary for the three or four million inhabitants of the
two departments.

We repeat, this is no fancy dream, and we have not yet spoken of the truly intensive agriculture.
We have not depended upon the wheat (obtained in three years by Mr. Hallett) of which one grain,
replanted, produced 5,000 or 6,000, and occasionally 10,000 grains, which would give the wheat
necessary for a family of five individuals on an area of 120 square yards. On the contrary,
we have only mentioned what is being already achieved by numerous farmers in France, England,
Belgium, etc., and what might be done to-morrow with the experience and knowledge acquired already
by practice on a large scale.

But without a revolution, neither to-morrow, nor after to-morrow will see it done, because it
is not to the interest of landowners and capitalists; and because peasants who would find their
profit in it have neither the knowledge nor the money, nor the time to obtain what is necessary
to go ahead.

The society of to-day has not yet reached this stage. But let Parisians proclaim an Anarchist
Commune, and they will of necessity come to it, because they will not be foolish enough to
continue making luxurious toys (which Vienna, Warsaw, and Berlin make as well already), and to
run the risk of being left without bread.

Moreover, agricultural work, by the help of machinery, would soon become the most attractive
and the most joyful of all occupations.

"We have had enough jewelery and enough dolls'clothes," they would say; "it is high time for
the workers to recruit their strength in agriculture, to go in search of vigour, of impressions of
nature, of the joy of life, that they have forgotten in the dark
factories of the suburbs."

In the Middle Ages it was Alpine pasture lands, rather than guns,
which allowed the Swiss to shake off lords and kings.

Modern agriculture will allow a city in revolt to free itself from
the combined bourgeois forces.

III We have seen how the three and one-half million inhabitants of
the two departments round Paris could find ample bread by cultivating
only a third of their territory.

Let us now pass on to cattle. Englishmen, who eat much meat, consume on an average a little less than
220 pounds a year per adult. Supposing all meats consumed were oxen,
that makes a little less than the third of an ox.

An ox a year
for five individuals (including children) is already a sufficient ration.
For three and one-half million inhabitants this would make an annual
consumption of 700,000 head of cattle.

To-day, with the pasture system, we need at least five million acres to nourish 660,000 head
of cattle. This makes nine acres per each head of horned cattle. Nevertheless, with prairies
moderately watered by spring water (as recently done on thousands
of acres in the southwest of France), one and one-fourth million acres
already suffice.

But if
intensive culture is practiced, and beet-root is grown for fodder, you only need a quarter of that
area, that is to say, about 310,000 acres.

And if we have recourse to maize and practice ensilage (the compression of fodder while green)
like Arabs, we obtain fodder on an area of 217,500 acres. In the environs of Milan, where sewer
water is used to irrigate the fields, fodder for two to three horned cattle per each acre is obtained
on an area of 22,000 acres; and on a few favoured fields, up to 177 tons of hay to the 10 acres have
been cropped, the yearly provender of 36 milch cows.

Nearly
nine acres per head of cattle are needed under the pasture system, and only two and one-half acres
for nine oxen or cows under the new system. These are the opposite extremes in modern agriculture.
In Guernsey, on a total of 9,884 acres utilized, nearly half (4,695 acres) are covered with cereals
and kitchen-gardens; only 5,189 acres remain as meadows. On these
5,189 acres, 1,480 horses, 7,260 head of cattle, 900 sheep, and 4,200
pigs are fed, which makes more than three head of cattle per two
acres, without reckoning the sheep or the pigs.

It is needless to add that the fertility of the soil is made by seaweed
and chemical manures.

Returning to our three and one-half million inhabitants belonging to Paris and its environs,
we see that the land necessary for the rearing of cattle comes down from five million acres
to 197,000. Well, then, let us not stop at the lowest figures, let us take those of ordinary intensive
culture; let us liberally add to the land necessary for smaller cattle which must replace some
of the horned beasts and allow 395,000 acres for the rearing of cattle--
494,000 if you like, on the 1,013,000 acres remaining after bread
has been provided for the people.

Let us be generous and give five million work-days to put this land
into a productive state. After having therefore employed in the course
of a year twenty million work-days, half of which are for permanent
improvements, we shall have bread and meat assured to us, without
including all the extra meat obtainable in the shape of fowls, pigs,
rabbits, etc.; without taking into consideration that a population
provided with excellent vegetables and fruit consumes less meat than
Englishmen, who supplement their poor supply of vegetables by animal
food.

Now, how much do twenty million work-days of five hours make per inhabitant?
Very little indeed. A population of three and one-half millions must have
at least 1,200,000 adult men, and as many women capable of work. Well,
then, to give bread and meat to all, it would need only seventeen half-days
of work a year per man. Add three million work-days, or double that
number if you like, in order to obtain milk.

That will make twenty-five work-days of five hours in all-- nothing
more than a little pleasureable country exercise-- to obtain the three
principal products: bread, meat, and milk.

The three products which, after housing, cause daily anxiety to nine-tenths of mankind. And yet--
let us not tire of repeating-- these are not fancy dreams. We have only told what is, what been,
obtained by experience on a large scale. Agriculture could be reorganized
in this way to-morrow if property laws and general ignorance did
not offer opposition. The day Paris has understood that to know what
you eat and how it is produced, is a question of public interest;
the day when everybody will have understood that this question is
infinitely more important than all the parliamentary debates of the
present times-- on that day the Revolution will be an accomplished
fact.

Paris will take possession of the two departments and cultivate
them.

And then the Parisian worker, after having laboured a third of his
existence in order to buy bad and insufficient food, will produce
it himself, under his walls, within the enclosure of his forts (if
they still exist), and in a few hours of healthy and attractive work.

And now we pass on to fruit and vegetables. Let us go outside Paris and visit the establishment
of a market-gardener who accomplishes wonders (ignored by learned economists) at a few miles from
the academies.

Let us visit, suppose, M. Ponce, the author of a work on market-gardening, who makes no secret
of what the earth yields him, and who has published it all along.
M. Ponce, and especially his workmen, work like niggers. It takes eight men
to cultivate a plot a little less than three acres (2.7).

They work twelve and even fifteen hours a day, that is to say, three times
more than is needed.

Twenty-four of them would not be too many. To which M. Ponce will probably answer that as he
pays the terrible sum of£ 100 rent a year for his 2.7 acres of land,
and£ 100 for manure bought in the barracks, he is obliged to exploit.

He would no doubt answer, "Being exploited, I exploit in my turn."
His installation has also cost him£ 1,200, of which certainly more
than half went as tribute to the idle barons of industry.

In reality, this establishment represents at most 3,000 work-days,
probably much less. But let us examine his crops: nearly ten tons of
carrots, nearly ten tons of onions, radishes, and small vegetables,
6,000 heads of cabbage, 3,000 heads of cauliflower, 5,000 baskets of
tomatoes, 5,000 dozen of choice fruit, 154,000 salads; in short,
a total of 123 tons of vegetables and fruit to 2.7 acres-- 120 yards
long by 109 yards broad, which makes more than forty-four tons of
vegetables to the acre.

But a man does not eat more than 660 pounds of vegetables and fruit a year, and two and one-half acres
of a market-garden yield enough vegetables and fruit to richly supply the table of 350 adults
during the year. Thus twenty-four persons employed a whole year
in cultivating 2.7 acres of land, and only five working hours a day, would
produce sufficient vegetables and fruit for 350 adults, which is
equivalent at least to 500 individuals.

To put it another way: in cultivating like M. Ponce-- and his results have already been surpassed--
350 adults should each give a little more than 100 hours a year (103)
to produce vegetables and fruit necessary for 500 people.

Let us mention that such a production is not the exception. It takes place, under the walls of
Paris, on an area of 2,220 acres, by 5,000 market-gardeners.

Only these market-gardeners are reduced nowadays to a state of beasts of burden, in order to pay
an average rent of£ 32 per acre. But do not these facts, which can be verified by every one,
prove that 17,300 acres (of the 519,000 remaining to us) would suffice to give all necessary vegetables,
as well as a liberal amount of fruit to the three and one-half million inhabitants of our two
departments? As to the quantity of work necessary to produce these fruits and vegetables, it would amount
to fifty million work-days of five hours (50 days per adult male), if we measure by the market-gardeners'standard
of work. But we could reduce this quantity if we had recourse to the process in vogue in Jersey and Guernsey.
We must also remember that the Paris market-gardener is forced to
work so hard because he mostly produces early season fruits, the high
prices of which have to pay for fabulous rents, and that this system
of culture entails more work than is necessary for growing the ordinary
staple-food vegetables and fruit.

Besides, the market-gardeners of Paris, not having the means to make
a great outlay on their gardens, and being obliged to pay heavily for glass,
wood, iron, and coal, obtain their artificial heat out of manure,
while it can be had at much less cost in hothouses. IV The market-gardeners,
we say, are forced to become machines and to renounce all joys of life
in order to obtain their marvellous crops.

But these hard grinders have rendered a great service to humanity in teaching us that the soil can
be "made." They make it with old hot-beds of manure, which have already
served to give the necessary warmth to young plants and to early
fruit; and they make it in such great quantity that they are compelled
to sell it in part, otherwise it would raise the level of their gardens
by one inch every year.

They do it so well (so Barral teaches us, in his "Dictionary of Agriculture,"
in an article on market-gardeners) that in recent contracts, the market-gardener
stipulates that he will carry away his soil with him when he leaves
the bit of ground he is cultivating.

Loam carried away on carts, with furniture and glass frames-- that is
the answer of practical cultivators to the learned treatises of a
Ricardo, who represented rent as a means of equalizing the natural advantages
of the soil.

"The soil is worth what the man is worth," that is the gardeners'motto.

And yet the market-gardeners of Paris and Rouen labour three times as
hard to obtain the same results as their fellow-workers in Guernsey
or in England.

Applying industry to agriculture, these last make their climate in addition
to their soil, by means of the greenhouse.

Fifty years ago the greenhouse was the luxury of the rich. It was
kept to grow exotic plants for pleasure. But nowadays its use begins
to be generalized. A tremendous industry has grown up lately in Guernsey
and Jersey, where hundreds of acres are already covered with glass--
to say nothing of the countless small greenhouses kept in every little
farm garden.

Acres and acres of greenhouses have lately been built also at Worthing (103
acres in 1912), in the suburbs of London, and in several other parts
of England and Scotland. They are built of all qualities, beginning
with those which have granite walls, down to those which represent
mere shelters made in planks and glass frames, which cost, even now,
with all the tribute paid to capitalists and middlemen, less than 3s.

6d. per square yard under glass. Most of them are heated for at least three of four months every year;
but even the cool greenhouses, which are not heated at all, give
excellent results-- of course, not for growing grapes and tropical plants,
but for potatoes, carrots, peas, tomatoes, and so on. In this way man
emancipates himself from climate, and at the same time he avoids also the
heavy work with the hot-beds, and he saves both in buying much less
manure and in work.

Three men to the acre, each of them working less than sixty hours a
week, produce on very small spaces what formerly required acres and
acres of land. The result of all these recent conquests of culture
is, that if one-half only of the adults of a city gave each about
fifty half-days for the culture of the finest fruit and vegetables
out of season, they would have all the year round an unlimited supply
of that sort of fruit and vegetables for the whole population.

But there is a still more important fact to notice.

The greenhouse has nowadays a tendency to become a mere kitchen garden
under glass.

And when it is used to such a purpose, the simplest plank-and-glass
unheated shelters already give fabulous crops-- such as, for instance,
500 bushels of potatoes per acre as a first crop, ready by the end
of April; after which a second and a third crop are obtained in the
extremely high temperature which prevails in the summer under glass.

I gave in my "Fields, Factories, and Workshops," most striking facts
in this direction. Sufficient to say here, that at Jersey, thirty-four
men, with one trained gardener only, cultivate thirteen acres under
glass, from which they obtain 143 tons of fruit and early vegetables,
using for this extraordinary culture less than 1,000 tons of coal.

And this is done now in Guernsey and Jersey on a very large scale, quite a number of steamers
constantly plying between Guernsey and London, only to export the
crops of the greenhouses. Nowadays, in order to obtain that same crop
of 500 bushels of potatoes, we must plough every year a surface of
four acres, plant it, cultivate it, weed, it, and so on; whereas with
the glass, even if we shall have to give perhaps, to start with, half
a day's work per square yard in order to build the greenhouse-- we
shall save afterwards at least one-half, and probably three-quarters
of the yearly labour required formerly.

These are facts, results which every one can verify himself. And these facts are already a hint
as to what man could obtain from the earth if he treated it with intelligence.
V In all the above we have reasoned upon what already withstood the
test of experience.

Intensive culture of the fields, irrigated meadows, the hot-house,
and finally the kitchen garden under glass are realities.

Moreover, the tendency is to extend and to generalize these methods of culture, because they allow of
obtaining more produce with less work and with more certainty. In fact, after having studied the
most simple glass shelters of Guernsey, we affirm that, taking all
in all, far less work is expended for obtaining potatoes under glass
in April, than in growing them in the open air, which requires digging
a space four times as large, watering it, weeding it, etc. Work is
likewise economized in employing a perfected tool or machine, even
when an initial expense had to be incurred to buy the tool.

Complete figures concerning the culture of common vegetables under glass are still wanting. This
culture is of recent origin, and is only carried out on small areas. But we have already figures concerning
the fifty years old culture of early season grapes, and these figures are conclusive. In the north
of England, on the Scotch frontier, where coal only costs 3s. a ton at the pit's mouth, they have long
since taken to growing hot-house grapes. Thirty years ago these grapes, ripe in January, were
sold by the grower at 20s. per pound and resold at 40s. per pound
for Napoleon III.'s table.

To-day the same grower sells them at only 2s. 6d. per pound. He tells us so himself in a horticultural
journal. The fall in the prices is caused by the tons and tons of grapes
arriving in January to London and Paris. Thanks to the cheapness of coal
and an intelligent culture, grapes from the north travel now southwards,
in a contrary direction to ordinary fruit.

They cost so little that in May, English and Jersey grapes are sold at 1s. 8d. per pound by the
gardeners, and yet this price, like that of 40s. thirty years ago, is only kept up by slack
production. In March, Belgium grapes are sold at from 6d. to 8d., while in October, grapes cultivated
in immense quantities-- under glass, and with a little artificial
heating in the environs of London-- are sold at the same price as
grapes bought by the pound in the vineyards of Switzerland and the
Rhine, that is to say, for a few halfpence.

Yet they still cost two-thirds too much, by reason of the excessive rent of the soil and the cost
of installation and heating, on which the gardener pays a formidable tribute to the manufacturer
and the middleman. This being understood, we may say that it costs "next to nothing" to have delicious
grapes under the latitude of, and in our misty London in autumn.

In one of the suburbs, for instance, a wretched glass and plaster shelter,
nine feet ten inches long by six and one-half feet wide, resting against
our cottage, gave us about fifty pounds of grapes of an exquisite flavour
in October, for nine consecutive years. The crop came from a Hamburg
vine-stalk, six year old.

And the shelter was so bad that the rain came through. At night the temperature was always that
of outside. It was evidently not heated, for it would have been as useless as heating the street!
And the care which was given was: pruning the vine, half an hour every year; and bringing a wheel-barrowful
of manure, which was thrown over the stalk of the vine, planted in red clay outside the shelter.
On the other hand, if we estimate the amount of care given to the
vine on the borders of the Rhine of Lake Leman, the terraces constructed
stone upon stone on the slopes of the hills, the transport of manure
and also of earth to a height of two or three hundred feet, we come
to the conclusion that on the whole the expenditure of work necessary
to cultivate vines is more considerable in Switzerland or on the banks
of the Rhine than it is under glass in London suburbs.

This may seem paradoxical, because it is generally believed that vines grow of themselves in the south
of Europe, and that the vine-grower's work costs nothing. But gardeners and horticulturists, far
from contradicting us, confirm our assertions. "The most advantageous culture in England is
vine culture," wrote a practical gardener, editor of the "English
Journal of Horticulture" in the Nineteenth Century.

Prices speak eloquently for themselves, as we know. Translating these facts into communist language,
we may assert that the man or woman who takes twenty hours a year
from his leisure time to give some little care-- very pleasant in
the main-- to two or three vine-stalks sheltered by simple glass under
any European climate, will gather as many grapes as their family and
friends can eat.

And that applies not only to vines, but to all fruit trees. The Commune that will put the processes
of intensive culture into practice on a large scale will have all possible
vegetables, indigenous or exotic, and all desirable fruits, without employing
more than about ten hours a year per inhabitant. In fact, nothing
would be easier than to verify the above statements by direct experiment.
Suppose 100 acres of a light loam (such as we have at Worthing) are
transformed into a number of market gardens, each one with its glass
houses for the rearing of the seedlings and young plants.

Suppose also that fifty more acres are covered with glass houses,
and the organization of the whole is left to practical experienced
French maraîchers, and Guernsey or Worthing greenhouse gardeners.

In basing the maintenance of these 150 acres on the Jersey average, requiring the work of three
men per acre under glass-- which makes less than 8,600 hours of work
a year-- it would need about 1,300,000 hours for the 150 acres.

Fifty competent gardeners could give five hours a day to this work,
and the rest would be simply done by people who, without being gardeners
by profession, would soon learn how to use a spade, and to handle
the plants.

But this work would yield at least-- we have seen it in a preceding
chapter-- all necessaries and articles of luxury in the way of fruit
and vegetables for at least 40,000 or 50,000 people.

Let us admit that among this number there are 13,500 adults, willing
to work at the kitchen garden; then, each one would have to give
100 hours a year distributed over the whole year.

These hours of work would become hours of recreation spent among friends and children in beautiful
gardens, more beautiful probably than those of the legendary Semiramis.

This is the balance sheet of the labour to be spent in order to be
able to eat to satiety fruit which we are deprived of to-day, and
to have vegetables in abundance, now so scrupulously rationed out
by the housewife, when she has to reckon each half-penny which must
go to enrich capitalists and landowners [13].

If only humanity had the consciousness of what it CAN, and if that consciousness only gave it
the power to WILL! If it only knew that cowardice of the spirit is
the rock on which all revolutions have stranded until now. VI We can
easily perceive the new horizons opening before the social revolution.
Each time we speak of revolution, the face of the worker who has seen
children wanting food darkens and he asks-- "What of bread?

Will there be sufficient, if everyone eats according to his appetite? What if the peasants, ignorant tools
of reaction, starve our towns as the black bands did in France in 1793-- what shall we do?" Let them
do their worst. The large cities will have to do without them.

At what, then, should the hundreds of thousands of workers, who are asphyxiated to-day in small
workshops and factories, be employed on the day they regain their liberty? Will they continue
to shut themselves up in factories after the Revolution?

He had two boys, aged sixteen and twelve, and he would allow both of them to drink wine in
the evening, saying they must learn to "carry their liquor like gentlemen." When the lad of
twelve calmly ordered the new parlour-maid to bring him the maraschino, Alderman Keats thought
that that was a great joke.

Quickly he developed into the acknowledged champion of all ancient English characteristics,
customs, prejudices and ideals.

It was this habit of mind that led to the revolver.

He saw the revolver prominent in the window of Stetton's, the pawnbroker in Crown Square, and
the notion suddenly occurred to him that a fine old English gentleman could not be considered
complete without a revolver. He bought the weapon, which Stetton guaranteed to be first-rate
and fatal, and which was, in fact, pretty good. It seemed to the alderman bright, complex and
heavy. He had imagined a revolver to be smaller and lighter; but then he had never handled
an instrument more dangerous than a razor. He hesitated about going to his cousin's, Joe Keats,
the ironmonger; Joe Keats always laughed at him as if he were a farce; Joe would not be ceremonious,
and could not be corrected because he was a relative and of equal age with the alderman. But
he was obliged to go to Joe Keats, as Joe made a speciality of cartridges. In Hanbridge, people
who wanted cartridges went as a matter of course to Joe's. So Alderman Keats strolled with
grand casualness into Joe's, and said:

"I say, Joe, I want some cartridges."

"What for?" the thin Joe asked. 

"Just the man I want, then," continued Appleyard.

"Now, to-morrow morning, get your cab early-- put your friend in it-- dressed
up, of course-- and at half-past nine to the very minute drive slowly
past the front door of the Pompadour.

You'll see a private motor-brougham there-- dark green-- you'll also
see a hunchbacked gentleman enter it-- you can't mistake him.

Follow him! Never mind where he goes, or how long it takes to get there-- or how few minutes it
takes to get there, for that matter!-- follow him and find out where
that private cab puts him down.

Then-- come and report to me. Is that all clear?"

"Clear as noonday, sir," answered Gaffney. "I understand-- I've been
at that sort of game more than once."

"All right," said Appleyard. "I leave it to you.

Take every care-- I don't want this man to get the least suspicion
that he's followed.

And--" He hesitated, considering his plans over again.

"Yes," he went on, "there's just another detail that I may mention-- it'll
save time.

This hunchback gentleman's name is Rayner-- Mr. Gerald Rayner.

Can you remember it?"

"As well as my own," answered Gaffney. "Mr. Gerald Rayner. I've got
it."

"Very good. Now, then, can you trust this friend of yours?" asked
Appleyard.

"Is he a chap of common sense?"

"It's my own brother," replied Gaffney. "Some people say I'm the sharper of the two, some say he
is. There's a pair of us, anyhow."

"That'll do," said Appleyard.

"Now, wherever you see this Mr. Rayner set down, let your brother
get out of your cab and take particular notice if he goes into any
shop, office, flats, buildings, anything of that sort which bears
his name-- Rayner.

D'you see? I want to know what his business is.

And now that you know what I want, you and your brother put your heads together and try to
find it out, and come to me when you've done, and I'll make it worth
your while.

You'd better go now and make your arrangements."

Gaffney went away, evidently delighted with his commission, and Appleyard
turned to his business of the day, wondering if he was not going to
waste the chauffer's time and his own money.

Next morning he purposely hung about the Pompadour until the time
for Rayner's departure arrived; from one of the front windows he saw
the hunchback enter his brougham and drive away; at the same moment
he saw a neat private cab, driven by Gaffney, and occupied by a smart-looking
young gentleman in a silk hat, come along and follow in quite an ordinary
and usual manner.

And on that he himself went to Gresham Street and waited.

Gaffney and his brother turned in during the morning, both evidently
primed with news.

Appleyard shut himself into his office with them.

"Well?" he asked.

"Easy job, Mr. Appleyard," replied Gaffney. "Drove straight through the Park, Constitution Hill,
the Mall, Strand, to top of Arundel Street. There he got out; brougham went off-- back-- he walked
down street. So my brother here he got out too, and strolled down street after him. He'll tell
you the rest, sir."

"Just as plain as what he's told," said the other Gaffney. "I followed him down the street; he
walked one side, I t'other side. He went into Clytemnestra House-- one of those big houses of business
flats and offices-- almost at the bottom. I waited some time to see if he was settled like, or if
it was only a call he was making. Then I went into the hall of Clytemnestra House, as if I was
looking for somebody. There are two boards in that hall with the names of tenants painted on'em.
But there's not that name-- Gerald Rayner.

Still, I'll tell you what there is, sir-- there's a name that begins
with the same initials-- G. R."

"What
name?" asked Appleyard.

"The name," replied the second Gaffney, "is Gavin Ramsay-- Agent."

CHAPTER XVII THE PHOTOGRAPH Allerdyke went off to Hull, post-haste,
because of a telephone call which roused him out of bed an hour before
his usual time.

It came from Chettle, the New Scotland Yard man who had been sent
down to Hull as soon as the news of Lydenberg's murder arrived.

Chettle asked Allerdyke to join him by the very next express, and to come alone; he asked him,
moreover, not to tell Mr. Franklin Fullaway whither he was bound. And Allerdyke, having taken a
quick glance at a time-table, summoned Gaffney, told him of his journey,
bade him keep his tongue quiet at the Waldorf, wrote his hasty note
to Appleyard, dressed, and hurried away to King's Cross.

He breakfasted on the train, and was in Hull by one o'clock, and Chettle hailed him as he set
foot on the platform, and immediately led him off to a cab which awaited them outside the station.
"Much obliged to you for coming so promptly, Mr. Allerdyke," said the detective. "And for coming
by yourself-- that was just what I wanted." "Aye, and why?" asked Allerdyke. "Why by myself? I've been
wondering about that all the way down." Chettle, a sleek, comfortable-looking man, with a quiet
manner and a sly glance, laughed knowingly, twiddling his fat thumbs as he leaned back in the
cab.

"Oh, well, it doesn't do-- in my opinion-- to spread information amongst too many people, Mr. Allerdyke,"
he said. "That's my notion of things, anyway.

I just wanted to go into a few matters with you, alone, d'ye see?
I didn't want that American gentleman along with you.

Eh?" "Now,
why?" asked Allerdyke. "Out with it!" "Well, you see, Mr. Allerdyke," answered the detective,
"we know you. You're a man of substance, you've got a big stake in the country-- you're Allerdyke,
of Allerdyke and Partners, Limited, Bradford and London. But we don't know Fullaway. He may be all
right, but you could only call him a bird of passage, like. He can close down his business and
be away out of England to-morrow, and, personally, I don't believe
in letting him into every secret about all this affair until we know
more about him.

You see, Mr. Allerdyke, there's one thing very certain-- so far as
we've ascertained at present, nobody but Fullaway, and possibly whoever's
in his employ, was acquainted with the fact that your cousin was carrying
those jewels from Russia to England.

Nobody in this country, at any rate. And-- it's a thing of serious importance, sir." Just what Appleyard
had said!-- what, indeed, no one of discernment could help saying, thought Allerdyke. The sole
knowledge, of course, was with Fullaway and his lady clerk-- so far as was known. Therefore--
"Just so," he said aloud. "I see your point-- of course, I've already seen it. Well, what are we
going to do-- now? You've brought me down here for something special,
no doubt." "Quite so, sir," answered Chettle composedly.

"I want to draw your attention to some very special features and to ask you certain questions arising
out of'em. We'll take things in order, Mr. Allerdyke. We're driving now to the High Street-- I want
to show you the exact spot where Lydenberg was shot dead. After that we'll go to the police-station
and I'll show you two or three little matters, and we'll have a talk
about them.

And now, before we get to the High Street, I may as well tell you that on examining Lydenberg's body very
little was found in the way of papers-- scarcely anything, and nothing
connecting him with your cousin's affair-- in fact, the police here
say they never saw a foreign gentleman with less on him in that way.

But in
the inside pocket of his overcoat there was a postcard, which had been posted here in Hull.
Here it is-- and you'll see that it was the cause of taking him to
the spot where he was shot."

Chettle took from an old letter-case an innocent-looking postcard, on one corner of which was a stain.
"His blood," he remarked laconically. "He was shot clean through the heart. Well, you see, it's
a mere line."

Allerdyke took the card and looked at it with a mingled feeling of
repulsion and fascination.

The writing on it was thin, angular, upright, and it suggested foreign
origin.

And the communication was brief-- and unsigned-- "High Street morning
eleven sharp left-hand side old houses." "You don't recognize that
handwriting, of course, Mr. Allerdyke?" asked Chettle. "Never seen
it before, I suppose?" "No!" replied Allerdyke. "Never. But I should say
it's a foreigner's." "Very likely," assented Chettle.

"Aye, well, sir, it lured the man to his death. And now I'll show you
where he died, and how easy it was for the murderer to kill him and
get away unobserved."

He pulled the cab up at the corner of the High Street, and turned
southward towards the river, looking round at his companion with
one of his sly smiles.

"I daresay that you, being a Yorkshireman, Mr. Allerdyke, know all about this old street," he
remarked as they walked forward.

"I never saw it, never heard of it, until the other day, when I was
sent down on this Lydenberg business, but it struck me at once.

I should think it's one of the oldest streets left in England."

"It is," answered Allerdyke. "I know it well enough, and I've seen it changed. It used to be
the street of the old Hull merchants-- they had their houses and warehouses all combined, with gardens
at the back running down to the river Hull.

Queer old places there used to be in this street, I can tell you
when I was a lad!-- of late years they've pulled a lot of property
down that had got what you might call thoroughly worm-eaten-- oh,
yes, the place isn't half as ancient or picturesque as it was even
twenty years ago!"

"There's plenty of the ancient about it still, for all that," observed
Chettle, with a dry laugh.

"There was more than enough of it for Lydenberg the other day, at
any rate.

Now, then, you remember what it said on the postcard-- he was to
walk down the High Street, on the left-hand side, at eleven o'clock?

Very well-- down the High Street he walks, on this side which we
are now-- he strolls along, by these old houses, looking about him,
of course, for the person he was to meet.

The few people who were about down here that morning, and who saw
him, said that he was looking about from side to side.

And all of a sudden a shot rang out, and Lydenberg fell-- just here--
right on this very pavement."

He pulled Allerdyke up in a narrow part of the old street, jointed
to the flags, and then to the house behind them-- an ancient, ramshackle
place, the doors and windows of which were boarded up, the entire
fabric of which showed unmistakable readiness for the pick and shovel
of the house-breaker.

And he laid a hand on one of the shattered windows, close by a big hole in the decaying wood. "There's
no doubt the murderer was hidden behind this shutter, and that he
fired at Lydenberg from it, through this hole," he said.

"So, you see, he'd only be a few feet from his man. He was evidently
a good shot, and a fellow of resolute nerve, for he made no mistake.

He only fired once, but he shot Lydenberg clean through the heart,
dead!"

"Anybody see it happen?" asked Allerdyke, staring about him at the scene of the tragedy, and
thinking how very ordinary and commonplace everything looked. "I suppose there'd be people about,
though the street, at this end, anyway, isn't as busy as it once was?" "Several people saw him fall,"
answered Chettle. "They say he jumped, spun round, and fell across the pavement. And they all
thought it was a case of suicide. That, of course, gave the murderer a bigger and better chance
of making off.

You see, as these people saw no assailant, it never struck'em that the shot had been fired
from behind this window. When they collected their thoughts, found it wasn't suicide, and realized
that it was murder, the murderer was-- Lord knows where! From behind these old houses, Mr. Allerdyke,
there's a perfect rabbit-warren of alleys, courts, slums, twists, and turns! The man could slip
out at the back, go left or right, mix himself up with the crowd on the quays and wharves,
walk into the streets, go anywhere-- all in a minute or two." "Clever-- very clever! You've no
clue?" asked Allerdyke.

"None; not a scrap!" replied the detective. "Bless you, there's score
of foreigners knocking about Hull.

Scores!
Hundreds! We've done all we can, the local police and myself-- we've no clue whatever. But, of course,
it was done by one of the gang." "By one of the gang!" exclaimed Allerdyke. "Ah you've got
a theory of your own, then?" Chettle laughed quietly as they turned and retraced their steps up the street.
"It'ud be queer if I hadn't, by this time," he answered.

"Oh yes,
I've thought things out pretty well, and I should say our people at the Yard have come to
the same conclusion that I have-- I'm not conceited enough, Mr. Allerdyke, to fancy that I'm the only
person who's arrived at a reasonable theory, not I?"

"Well-- what is your theory?" asked Allerdyke. "This," replied the
detective.

"The whole thing, the theft of the Princess Nastirsevitch's jewels from your cousin, of Miss
de Longarde's or Lennard's jewels, was the work of a peculiarly clever
gang-- though it may be of an individual-- who made use of both Lydenberg
and the French maid as instruments, and subsequently murdered those
two in order to silence them forever.

I say it may be the work of an individual-- it's quite possible that the man who killed the Frenchwoman
is also the man who shot Lydenberg-- but it may be the work of one,
two, or three separate persons, acting in collusion.

I believe that Lydenberg was the actual thief of the Princess's jewels
from your cousin; that the Frenchwoman actually stole her mistress's
jewels.

But as to how it was worked-- as to who invented and carried out the whole thing-- ah!" "And to that-- to the
real secret of the whole matter-- we haven't the ghost of a clue!"
muttered Allerdyke.

"That's about it, eh?" Chettle laughed-- a sly, suggestive laugh. He gave his companion one of his half-apologetic
looks. "I'm not so sure, Mr. Allerdyke," he said. "We may have--
and that's why I wanted to see you by yourself. Come round to the police-station."
In a quiet room in the usual drab and dismal atmosphere which Allerdyke
was beginning to associate with police affairs, Chettle produced the
personal property of the dead man, all removed, he said, from the
Station Hotel, for safe keeping.

"There's little to go on, Mr. Allerdyke," he said, pointing to one article after
another.

"You'll remember that the man represented himself as being a Norwegian
doctor, who had come to Hull on private business. He may have been
that-- we're making inquiries about him in Christiania, where he
hailed from.

According to those who're in a position to speak, his clothing, linen,
boots, and so on are all of the sort you'd get in that country.

But he'd no papers on him to show his business, no private letters, no documents connecting
him with Hull in any way: he hadn't even a visiting-card.

He'd a return ticket-- from Hull to Christiania-- and he'd plenty of money, English and foreign.
When I got down here, I helped the local police to go through everything--
we even searched the linings of his clothing and ripped his one handbag
to pieces.

But we've found no more than I've said. However-- I've found something.

Nobody knows that I've found it. I haven't told the people here--
I haven't even reported it to headquarters in London.

I wanted you to see it before I spoke of it to a soul. Look here!" Chettle opened a square cardboard
box in which certain personal effects belonging to Lydenberg had been placed-- one or two rings, a
pocket-knife, his purse and its contents, a cigar-case, his watch and chain. He took up the watch,
detached it from the chain, and held it towards Allerdyke, who was
regarding these proceedings with intense curiosity.

"You see this watch, Mr. Allerdyke," he said.

"It's a watch of foreign make-- Swiss-- and it's an old one, a good many years old, I should
say. Consequently, it's a bit what we might call massive. Now, I was looking at it yesterday-- late
last night, in fact-- and an idea suddenly struck me. In consequence of that idea, I opened the
back of the watch, and discovered-- that!" He desired, of a Saturday night,
nothing better than such a room, a couple of packs of cards, and the presence of wife and child
and his two life-long friends, Sneyd and Lovatt--safe men both. After cards were over--and
on Lovatt's account play ceased at ten o'clock--they would discuss Bursley and Bursley folk
with a shrewd sagacity and an intimate and complete knowledge of circumstance not to be found
in combination anywhere outside a small industrial town. To listen to Sneyd and Mrs Peake,
when each sought to distance the other in tracing a genealogy, was to learn the history of
a whole community and the secret springs of the actions which constituted its evolution.

"Haven't you any news for me?" asked Peake, during a pause in the talk. At the same moment
the door opened and Mrs Lovatt entered. "Eh, Auntie Lovatt," he went on, greeting her, "we'd
given ye up." Mrs Lovatt usually visited the Peakes on Saturday evenings, but she came later
than her husband.

"Eh, but I was bound to come and see you to-night, Uncle Peake, after your visit to the great
city. Well, you're looking bonny." She shook hands with him warmly, her face beaming goodwill,
and then she kissed her half-sister and Ella, and told Sneyd that she had seen him that morning
in the market-place.

Mrs Peake and Mrs Lovatt differed remarkably in character and appearance, though this did not
prevent them from being passionately attached to one another. Mrs Lovatt was small, and rather
plain; content to be her husband's wife, she had no activities beyond her own home. It is because
these few prevent the remainder of men from producing the things they need, and force them
to produce, not the necessaries of life for all, but whatever offers the greatest profits to
the monopolists. In this is the substance of all Socialism.

Take, indeed, a civilized country. The forests which once covered it have been cleared, the marshes drained,
the climate improved. It has been made habitable.

The soil, which bore formerly only a coarse vegetation, is covered to-day with rich harvests.
The rock-walls in the valleys are laid out in terraces and covered
with vines.

The wild plants, which yielded nought but acrid berries, or uneatable roots, have been transformed
by generations of culture into succulent vegetables or trees covered
with delicious fruits. She was a Methodist of the strictest, and her husband happened
to be chapel steward. "If I had my way with those cards I'd soon play with them; I'd play with
them at the back of the fire. Now you were asking for news when I came in, Uncle Peake. Have
they told you about the new organ? We're quite full of it at our house."

"No," said Peake, "they haven't."

"What!" she cried reproachfully. "You haven't told him, Enoch--nor you, Nan?"

"Upon my word it never entered my head," said Mrs Peake.

"Well, Uncle Peake," Mrs Lovatt began, "we're going to have a new organ for the Conference."

"Not before it's wanted," said Peake. "I do like a bit of good music at service, and Best himself
couldn't make anything of that old wheezer we've got now."

"Is that the reason we see you so seldom at chapel?" Mrs Lovatt asked tartly.

"I was there last Sunday morning."

"And before that, Uncle Peake?" She smiled sweetly on him.

Peake was one of the worldlings who, in a religious sense, existed precariously on the fringe
of the Methodist Society. My part in the performance was to attend to the fire under the great
kettle in which the hogs were scalded, and to keep the water boiling, varied at intervals by blowing
up bladders with a quill for my own amusement. In the house the fat had to be looked to, and
after being washed and tried (the term used for melting), was poured into dishes and set aside
to cool and become lard, afterwards finding its way into cakes and piecrust. The out-door task
does not end with the first day either, for the hogs have to be carried in and cut up; the large meat
tubs, in which the family supplies are kept, have to be filled; the hams and shoulders to be nicely
cut and cured, and the rest packed into barrels for sale.

Close on the heels of hog-killing came sausage-making, when meat had to be chopped and flavoured, and
stuffed into cotton bags or prepared gut. Then the heads and feet had to be soaked and scraped
over and over again, and when ready were boiled, the one being converted into head-cheese,
the other into souse. All these matters, when conducted under the eye of a good housewife, contributed
largely to the comfort and good living of the family. Who is there, with such an experience as mine, that
receives these things at the hands of his city butcher and meets them on his table, who does
not wish for the moment that he was a boy, and seated at his mother's board, that he might shake
off the phantom canine and feline that rise on his plate, and call
in one of mother's sausages.

As
the fall crept on, the preparations for winter increased. The large roll of full cloth, which
had been lately brought from the mill, was carried down, and father and I set out for a tailor,
who took our measurements and cut our clothes, which we brought home,
and some woman, or perhaps a wandering tailor, was employed to make
them up.

There was no discussion as to style, and if the fit did not happen to be perfect, there was no
one to criticise either the material or the make, nor were there
any arbitrary rules of fashion to be respected.

We had new clothes, which were warm and comfortable. What more did
we want?

A cobbler, too, was brought in to make our boots. My father was quite an expert at shoemaking, but
he had so many irons in the fire now that he could not do more than mend or make a light pair
of shoes for mother at odd spells. The work then turned out by the sons of St. Crispin was not highly
finished. It was coarse, but, what was of greater consequence, it was strong, and wore well.
While all this was going on for the benefit of the male portion of
the house, mother and the girls were busy turning the white flannels
into shirts and drawers, and the plaid roll that came with it into
dresses for themselves.

As in the case of our clothes, there was no consulting of fashion-books,
for a very good reason, perhaps-- there was none to consult.

No talk about Miss Brown or Miss Smith having her dress made this
way or that; and I am sure they were far happier and contented than
the girls of to-day, with all their show and glitter.

The roads at that time, more particularly in the fall, were almost impassable until frozen up. In
the spring, until the frost was out of the ground, and they had settled
and dried, they were no better.

The bridges were rough, wooden affairs, covered with logs, usually
flattened on one side with an axe.

The swamps and marshes were made passable by laying down logs, of
nearly equal size, close together in the worst places.

These were known as corduroy roads, and were no pleasant highways
to ride over for any distance, as all who have tried them know.

But in the winter the frost and snow made good traveling everywhere, and hence the winter was
the time for the farmer to do his teaming.

One of the first things that claimed attention when the sleighing
began, and before the snow got deep in the woods, was to get out the
year's supply of fuel.

The men set out for the bush before it was fairly daylight, and commenced
chopping.

The trees were cut in lengths of about ten feet, and the brush piled
in heaps.

Then my father, or myself, when I got old enough, followed with the sleigh, and began drawing
it, until the wood yard was filled with sound beech and maple, with a few loads of dry pine for
kindling. These huge wood-piles always bore a thrifty appearance,
and spoke of comfort and good cheer within.

Just before Christmas there was always one or two beef cattle to
kill.

Sheep had also to be slaughtered, with the turkeys, geese and ducks, which had been getting ready
for decapitation. After home wants were provided for, the rest were
sent to market.

The winter's work now began in earnest, for whatever may be said about the enjoyment of Canadian
winter life-- and it is an enjoyable time to the Canadian-- there are few who really enjoy it
so much as the farmer.

He cannot, however, do like bruin-- roll himself up in the fall, and suck his paw until spring
in a state of semi-unconsciousness, for his cares are numerous and
imperious, his work varied and laborious.

His large stock demands regular attention, and must be fed morning and night. The great barn
filled with grain had to be threshed, for the cattle needed the straw, and the grain had to be
got out for the market. So day after day he and his men hammered away with the flail, or spread
the sheaves on the barn floor to be trampled out by horses.

Threshing machines were unknown then, as were all the labour-saving
machines now so extensively used by the farmer.

His muscular arm was the only machine he then had to rely upon, and
if it did not accomplish much, it succeeded in doing its work well,
and in providing him with all his modest wants.

Then the fanning mill came into play to clean the grain, after which it was carried to the granary,
whence again it was taken either to the mill or to market. Winter was also the time to get out the
logs from the woods, and to haul them to the mill to be sawed in
the spring-- we always had a use for boards.

These saw mills, built on sap-streams, which ran dry as soon as the
spring freshets were over, were like the cider mills, small rough
structures.

They had but one upright saw, which, owing to its primitive construction,
did not move as now, with lightning rapidity, nor did it turn out
a very large quantity of stuff.

It answered the purpose of the day, however, and that was all that was required or expected of
it.

Rails, also, had to be split and drawn to where new fences were wanted, or where old ones needed
repairs.

There were flour, beef, mutton, butter, apples, and a score more of things to be taken to market
and disposed of.

But, notwithstanding all this, the winter was a good, joyful time for the farmer-- a time, moreover,
when the social requisites of his nature received the most attention.

Often the horses would be put to the sleigh, and we would set off, well bundled up, to visit
some friends a few miles distant, or, as frequently happened, to visit an uncle or an aunt, far
away in the new settlements.

The roads often wound along for miles through the forest, and it
was great fun for us youngsters to be dashing along behind a spirited
team, now around the trunks of great trees, or under the low-hanging
boughs of the spruce or cedar, laden with snow, which sometimes shed
their heavy load upon our head.

But after a while the cold would seize upon us, and we would wish
our journey at an end.

The horses, white with frost, would then be pressed on faster, and would bring us at length to
the door.

In a few moments we would all be seated round the glowing fire, which
would soon quiet our chattering teeth, thaw us out, and prepare us
to take our places at the repast which had been getting ready in the
meantime.

We were sure to do justice to the good things which the table provided.

Many of these early days start up vividly and brightly before me, particularly since I have grown
to manhood, and lived amid other surroundings. Among the most pleasing of these recollections
are some of my drives on a moonlight night, when the sleighing was good, and when the sleigh, with
its robes and rugs, was packed with a merry lot of girls and boys
(we had no ladies and gentlemen then).

Off we would set, spanking along over the crisp snow, which creaked
and cracked under the runners, making a low murmuring sound in harmony
with the sleigh-bells.

When could a more fitting time be found for a pleasure-ride than
on one of those clear calm nights; when the earth, wrapped in her
mantle of snow, glistened and sparkled in the moonbeams, and the blue
vault of heaven glittered with countless stars, whose brilliancy seemed
intensified by the cold-- when the aurora borealis waved and danced
across the northern sky, and the frost noiselessly fell like flakes
of silver upon a scene at once inspiriting, exhilarating and joyous!

How the merry laugh floated along in the evening air, as we dashed along the road! How sweetly
the merry song and chorus echoed through the silent wood; while our
hearts were aglow with excitement, and all nature seemed to respond
to the happy scene!

When the frosty nights set in, we were always on the qui vive for
a skating revel on some pond near by, and our eagerness to enjoy the
sport frequently led to a ducking.

But very soon the large ponds, and then the bay, were frozen over, when we could indulge in the
fun to our heart's content. My first attempts were made under considerable difficulties, but
perseverance bridges the way over many obstacles, and so, with my
father's skates, which were over a foot long, and which required no
little ingenuity to fasten to my feet, I made my first attempt on
the ice.

Soon, however, in the growth of my feet, this trouble was overcome,
and I could whirl over the ice with anyone.

The girls did not share in this exhilarating exercise then; indeed their doing so would have
been thought quite improper.

As our time was usually taken up with school through the day, and
with such chores as feeding cattle and bringing wood in for the fire
when we returned at night, we would sally out after supper, on moonlight
nights, and, full of life and hilarity, fly over the ice, singing
and shouting, and making the night ring with our merriment.

There was plenty of room on the bay, and early in the season there
were miles of ice, smooth as glass and clear as crystal, reflecting
the stars which sparkled and glittered beneath our feet, as though
we were gliding over a sea of silver set with brilliants.

Ho for the bay, the ice-bound bay! The moon is up, the stars are bright;
The air is keen, but let it play-- We're proof against Jack Frost
to-night.

With a sturdy swing and lengthy stride, The glassy ice shall feel our steel; And through the welkin
far and wide The echo of our song shall peal.

CHORUS.-- Hurrah, boys, hurrah! skates on and away! You may lag at your work, but never at play;
Give wing to your feet, and make the ice ring, Give voice to your
mirth, and merrily sing.

Ho for the boy who does not care A fig for cold or northern blast! Whose winged feet can cut
the air Swift as an arrow from bowman cast: Who can give a long and hearty chase, And wheel and whirl;
then in a trice Inscribe his name in the polished face, Of the cold
and clear and glistening ice.

CHORUS.

Ho,
boys! the night is waning fast; The moon's last rays but faintly gleam. The hours have glided
swiftly past, And we must home to rest and dream. The morning's light must find us moving,
Ready our daily tasks to do; This is the way we have of proving We can do our part at working
too.

CHORUS.

Visiting for the older folk and sleigh-riding for the younger were the principal amusements of the
winter. The life then led was very plain and uneventful. There was no ostentatious display,
or assumption of superiority by the "first families."

Indeed there was no room for the lines of demarcation which exist in these days. All had to struggle
for a home and home comforts, and if some had been more successful in the rough battle of pioneer
life than others, they saw no reason why they should be elated or puffed up over it. Neighbours
were too scarce to be coldly or haughtily treated.

They had hewn their way, side by side, into the fastnesses of the Canadian bush, and therefore
stood on one common level. But few superfluities could be found either in their houses or
on their persons. Their dress was of home-made fabric, plain, often coarse, but substantial
and comfortable. Their manners were cordial and hearty, even to brusqueness, but they were
true friends and honest counsellors, rejoicing with their neighbours
in prosperity, and sympathising when days of darkness visited their
homes.

Modern refinement had not crept into their domestic circle to disturb it with shams and pretensions.
Fashion had no court wherein to adjudicate on matters of dress. Time-worn styles of dress and
living were considered the best, and hence there was no rivalry or
foolish display in either.

Both old and young enjoyed an evening at a friend's house, where
they were sure to be welcomed, and where a well-supplied table always
greeted them.

The home amusements were very limited.

Music, with its refining power, was uncultivated, and indeed almost unknown. There were no musical
instruments, unless some wandering fiddler happened to come along to delight both old and
young with his crazy instrument. There were no critical ears to detect discordant sounds,
or be displeased with the poor execution of the rambling musician. The young folk would sometimes
spirit him away to the village tavern, which was usually provided
with a large room called a ball-room, where he would fiddle while
they danced the hours gaily away.

At home the family gathered round the glowing fire, where work and
conversation moved on together.

The old motto of "Early to bed, and early to rise" was strictly observed.

Nine o'clock usually found the household wrapt in slumber. In the morning all were up and breakfast
was over usually before seven.

As soon as it began to get light, the men and boys started for the barn to feed the cattle and
thresh; and thus the winter wore away.

Very little things sometimes contribute largely to the comfort of a family, and among those I
may mention the lucifer match, then unknown.

It was necessary to carefully cover up the live coals on the hearth
before going to bed, so that there would be something to start the
fire with in the morning.

This precaution rarely failed with good hard-wood coals. But sometimes they died out, and then
some one would have to go to a neighbour's house for fire, a thing which I have done sometimes, and
it was not nice to have to crawl out of my warm nest and run through the keen cold air for a half
mile or more to fetch some live coals, before the morning light had broken in the east. My
father usually kept some bundles of finely split pine sticks tipped with brimstone for starting
a fire. With these, if there was only a spark left, a fire could
soon be made.

But little time was given to sport, although there was plenty of large game. There was something of
more importance always claiming attention. In the winter an occasional deer might be shot,
and foxes were sometimes taken in traps. It required a good deal of experience and skill to set
a trap so as to catch the cunning beast. Many stories have I heard trappers tell of tricks
played by Reynard, and how he had, night after night, baffled all their ingenuity, upset the traps,
set them off, or removed them, secured the bait, and away. Another sport more largely patronized
in the spring, because it brought something fresh and inviting to the table, was night-fishing.
When the creeks were swollen, and the nights were calm and warm, pike and mullet came up the streams
in great abundance. Three or four would set out with spears, with a man to carry the jack,
and also a supply of dry pine knots, as full of resin as could be
found, and cut up small, which were deposited in different places
along the creek.

The jack was then filled and lit, and when it was all ablaze carried along the edge of the stream,
closely followed by the spearsman, who, if an expert, would in a short time secure as many
fish as could be carried. It required a sharp eye and a sure aim. The fish shot through the
water with great rapidity, which rendered the sport all the more exciting. All hands, of course,
returned home thoroughly soaked. Another and pleasanter way was fishing in a canoe on the bay,
with the lighted jack secured in the bow. While there its light shone for a considerable distance
around, and enabled the fishers to see the smallest fish low down in the clear calm water. This
was really enjoyable sport, and generally resulted in a good catch of pike, pickerel, and,
very often, a maskelonge or two.

Early in the spring, before the snow had gone, the sugar-making time
came.

Success depended altogether upon the favourable condition of the
weather.

The days must be clear and mild, the nights frosty, and plenty of
snow in the woods.

When the time was at hand, the buckets and troughs were overhauled,
spiles were made, and when all was ready the large kettles and casks
were put in the sleigh, and all hands set out for the bush.

Tapping the tree was the first thing in order.

This was done either by boring the tree with an auger, and inserting
a spile about a foot long to carry off the sap, or with a gouge-shaped
tool about two inches wide, which was driven into the tree, under
an inclined scar made with an axe.

The spiles used in this case were split with the same instrument,
sharpened at the end with a knife, and driven into the cut.

A person accustomed to the work would tap a great many trees in a day, and usually continued
until he had done two or three hundred or more. This finished, next came the placing and hanging
of the kettles. A large log, or what was more common, the trunk of some great tree that had been
blown down, would be selected, in as central a position as possible. Two crotches were erected
by its side, and a strong pole was put across from one to the other.

Hooks were then made, and the kettles suspended over the fire. The sap was collected once and
sometimes twice a day, and when there was a good supply in the casks, the boiling began. Each
day's run was finished, if possible, the same night, when the sugaring-off took place. There
are various simple ways of telling when the syrup is sufficiently boiled, and when this is done,
the kettle containing the result of the day's work is set off the fire, and the contents stirred
until they turn to sugar, which is then dipped into dishes or moulds, and set aside to harden.
Sometimes, when the run was large, the boiling continued until late
at night, and, although there was a good deal of hard work connected
with it, there was also more or less enjoyment, particularly when
some half dozen merry girls dropped in upon you, and assisted at the
closing scene.

On these occasions the fun was free and boisterous. The woods rang with shouts and peals of
laughter, and always ended by our faces and hair being all stuck up with sugar. Then we would mount
the sleigh and leave for the house. But the most satisfactory part of the whole was to survey
the result of the toil in several hundred weight of sugar, and various
vessels filled with rich molasses.

Now the hams and beef had to be got out of the casks, and hung up
in the smoke-house to be smoked.

The spring work crowded on rapidly. Ploughing, fencing, sawing and planting followed in quick
succession. All hands were busy. The younger ones had to drive the
cows to pasture in the morning and bring them up at night.

They had also to take a hand at the old churn, and it was a weary task, as I remember well, to stand
for an hour, perhaps, and drive the dasher up and down through the
thick cream.

How often the handle was examined to see if there were any indications of butter; and what satisfaction
there was in getting over with it. As soon as my legs were long enough I had to follow a team,
and drag in grain-- in fact, before, for I was mounted on the back of one of the horses when
my nether limbs were hardly long enough to hold me to my seat. The implements then in use
were very rough. Iron ploughs, with cast iron mouldboards, shears,& c., were generally used. As compared
with the ploughs of to-day they were clumsy things, but were a great advance over the old wooden
ploughs which had not yet altogether gone out of use. Tree tops were
frequently used for drags.

Riding a horse in the field, under a hot sun, which I frequently had to do, was not as agreeable
as it might seem at the first blush.

In June came sheep-washing.

The sheep were driven to the bay shore and secured in a pen, whence
they were taken one by one into the bay, and their fleece well washed,
after which they were let go.

In a few days they were brought to the barn and sheared. Isn't that a warning? What right had they to go offering their hundred pound
apiece to your organ fund?"

"It was very wrong," said Mr Blackhurst, severely, "and what's more, it brings discredit on
the Methodist society."

"True!" agreed Peake, and then, leaning over confidentially, he spoke in a different voice:
"If you ask me, I don't mind saying that I think that magnificent subscription o' theirs was
a deliberate and fraudulent attempt to inspire pressing creditors with fresh confidence. That's
what I think. I call it monstrous."

Mr Blackhurst nodded slowly, as though meditating upon profound truths ably expressed.

"Well," Peake resumed, "I'm not one of that sort. If I can afford to give, I give; but not
otherwise. How do I know how I stand? I needn't tell you, Mr Blackhurst, that trade in this
district is in a very queer state--a very queer state indeed. Outside yourself, and Lovatt,
and one or two more, is there a single manufacturer in Bursley that knows how he stands? Is
there one of them that knows whether he's making money or losing it? Look at prices; can they
go lower? And secret discounts; can they go higher? And all this affects the colliery-owners.
I shouldn't like to tell you the total of my book-debts; I don't even care to think of it.
And suppose there's a colliers' strike--as there's bound to be sooner or later--where shall
we be then?"

Mr Blackhurst nodded once more, while Peake, intoxicated by his own rhetoric, began actually
to imagine that his commercial condition was indeed perilous.

"I've had several very severe losses lately," he went on. "You know I was in that newspaper
company; that was a heavy drain; I've done with newspapers for ever more. I was a fool, but
calling myself a fool won't bring back what I've lost. It's got to be faced. Then there's that
new shaft I sunk last year. What with floodings, and flaws in the seam, that shaft alone is
running me into a loss of six pound a week at this very moment, and has been for weeks."

"Dear me!" exclaimed Mr Blackhurst, sympathetically.

"Yes! Six pound a week! And that isn't all"--he had entirely forgotten the immediate object
of Mr Blackhurst's visit--"that isn't all. I've got a big lawsuit coming on with the railway
company. Goodness knows how that will end! If I lose it ... well!"

"Mr Peake," said the old man, with quiet firmness, "if things are as bad as you say we will
have a word of prayer."

He knelt down and forthwith commenced to intercede with God on behalf of this luckless colliery-owner,
his business, his family, his soul.

Peake jumped like a shot rabbit, reddening to the neck with stupefaction, excruciating sheepishness
and annoyance. As soon as the work is done the room is cleared for supper, after which the old
folks retire, and the second and most pleasing part of the performance begins. These after-scenes were
always entered into with a spirit of fun and honest abandonment truly
refreshing. Say, in a word,
that if this or that article of consumption runs short, and has to be doled out, to those who
have most need most should be given.

Say that and see if you do not meet with universal agreement.

The man who is full-fed does not understand this, but the people do understand, and have always
understood it; and even the child of luxury, if he is thrown on the
street and comes into contact with the masses, even he will learn
to understand. "Didn't I say that Mr Copinger's example would do it? Eh, James!
Bless you!"

