Sir Thomas Browne was a noble illustration of Bacon's noble law.  For Sir Thomas carried all
his studies, experiments, and operations to such a depth in his own mind, and heart, and imagination,
that he was able to testify to all his fellow-physicians that he who studies man and medicine
deeply enough will meet with as many intellectual, and scientific, and religious adventures
every day as any traveller will meet with in Africa itself.  As a living man of genius in the
medical profession, Dr. George Gould, has it in that wonderful Behmenite and Darwinian book
of his, The Meaning and the Method of Life, 'A healing and a knitting wound,' he argues, 'is
quite as good a proof of God as a sensible mind would desire.'  This was Sir Thomas Browne's
wise, and deep, and devout mind in all parts of his professional and personal life.  And he
was man enough, and a man of true science and of true religion enough, to warn his brethren
against those 'academical reservations' to which their strong intellectual and professional
pride, and their too weak faith and courage, continually tempted them.  Nor has he, for his
part, any clinical reservations in religion either, as so many of his brethren have.  'I cannot
go to cure the body of my patient,' he protests, 'but I forget my profession and call unto
God for his soul.'  To call Sir Thomas Browne sceptical, as has been a caprice and a fashion
among his merely literary admirers: and to say it, till it is taken for granted, that he is
an English Montaigne: all that is an abuse of language.  It is, to all but a small and select
circle of writers and readers, utterly misleading and essentially untrue.  And, besides, it
is right in the teeth of Sir Thomas's own emphatic, and repeated, and indignant denial and
repudiation of Montaigne.  Montaigne, with all his fascinations for literary men, and they
are great; and with all his services to them, and they are not small; is both an immoral and
an unbelieving writer.  Whereas, Sir Thomas Browne never wrote a single line, even in his greenest
studies, that on his deathbed he desired to blot out.  A purer, a humbler, a more devout and
detached hand never put English pen to paper than was the hand of Sir Thomas Browne.  And,
if ever in his greener days he had a doubt about any truth of natural or of revealed religion,
he tells us that he had fought down every such doubt in his closet and on his knees.

I will not profanely paraphrase, or in any way water down the strong words in which Sir Thomas
Browne writes to himself in his secret papers about prayer.  All that has been said about this
very remarkable man only makes what we are now to read all the more remarkable and memorable.
All Sir Thomas Browne's readers owe an immense debt to Simon Wilkin; and for nothing more than
for rescuing for us these golden words of this man of God.  'They were not,' says Wilkin, 'intended
by Browne for the perusal of his son, as so many of his private papers were, or of any one
else.' And hence their priceless value.

'To be sure that no day pass without calling upon God in a solemn, fervent prayer, seven times
within the compass thereof.  That is, in the morning, and at night, and five times between.
Taken up long ago from the example of David and Daniel, and a compunction and shame that I
had omitted it so long, when I heedfully read of the custom of the Mahometans to pray five
times in the day.

'To pray and magnify God in the night, and in my dark bed, when I cannot sleep; to have short
ejaculations whenever I awake, and when the four o'clock bell awakens me; or on my first discovery
of the light, to say this collect of our liturgy, Eternal God, who hast safely brought me to
the beginning of this day. . . .

