“ ‘Open that safe now or you haven’t but a minute to live.’ ”

“ ‘There’s a time lock on,’ Heywood answered, ‘and it can’t be opened now.’ ”

Howard drew a knife from his pocket and made a feint to cut Heywood’s throat, as he lay on
the floor where he had been thrown in the scuffle, and Pitts told me afterward that Howard
fired a pistol near Heywood’s head to scare him.

Bunker tried to get a pistol that lay near him, but Pitts saw his movement and beat him to
it.  It was found on Charley when he was killed, so much more evidence to identify us as the
men who were in Northfield.

“Where’s the money outside the safe?” Bob asked.

Bunker showed him a box of small change on the counter, and while Bob was putting the money
in a grainsack Bunker took advantage of the opportunity to dash out of the rear window.  The
shutters were closed, and this caused Bunker an instant’s delay that was almost fatal.  Pitts
chased him with a bullet.  The first one missed him, but the second went through his right
shoulder.

As the men left the bank Heywood clambered to his feet and Pitts, in his liquor, shot him through
the head, inflicting the wound that killed him.

We had no time to wreck the telegraph office, and the alarm was soon sent throughout the country.

Gov. John S. Pillsbury first offered $1,000 reward for the arrest of the six who had escaped,
and this he changed afterward to $1,000 for each of them, dead or alive.  The Northfield bank
offered $700 and the Winona & St. Peter railroad $500.

29. A CHASE TO THE DEATH

A little way out of Northfield we met a farmer and borrowed one of his horses for Pitts to
ride.  We passed Dundas on the run, before the news of the robbery had reached there, and at
Millersburg, too, we were in advance of the news, but at Shieldsville we were behind it.  Here
a squad of men, who, we afterwards learned, were from Faribault, had left their guns outside
a house.  We did not permit them to get their weapons until we had watered our horses and got
a fresh start.  They overtook us about four miles west of Shieldsville, and shots were exchanged
without effect on either side.  A spent bullet did hit me on the “crazy bone,” and as I was
leading Bob’s horse it caused a little excitement for a minute, but that was all.

We were in a strange country. On the prairie our maps were all right, but when we got into
the big woods and among the lakes we were practically lost.

There were a thousand men on our trail, and watching for us at fords and bridges where it was
thought we would be apt to go.

That night it started to rain, and we wore out our horses.  Friday we moved toward Waterville,
and Friday night we camped between Elysian and German lake.  Saturday morning we left our horses
and started through on foot, hiding that day on an island in a swamp.  That night we tramped
all night and we spent Sunday about four miles south of Marysburg.  Meantime our pursuers were
watching for horsemen, not finding our abandoned horses, it seems, until Monday or Tuesday.

Bob’s shattered elbow was requiring frequent attention, and that night we made only nine miles,
and Monday, Monday night and Tuesday we spent in a deserted farm-house close to Mankato.  That
day a man named Dunning discovered us and we took him prisoner.  Some of the boys wanted to
kill him, on the theory that “dead men tell no tales,” while others urged binding him and leaving
him in the woods.  Finally we administered to him an oath not to betray our whereabouts until
we had time to make our escape, and he agreed not to.  No sooner, however, was he released
than he made posthaste into Mankato to announce our presence, and in a few minutes another
posse was looking for us.

Suspecting, however, that he would do so, we were soon on the move, and that night we evaded
the guard at the Blue Earth river bridge, and about midnight made our way through Mankato.
The whistle on the oil mill blew, and we feared that it was a signal that had been agreed upon
to alarm the town in case we were observed, but we were not molested.

Howard and Woods, who had favored killing Dunning, and who felt we were losing valuable time
because of Bob’s wound, left us that night and went west.  As we afterward learned, this was
an advantage to us as well as to them, for they stole two horses soon after leaving us, and
the posse followed the trail of these horses, not knowing that our party had been divided.

Accordingly, we were not pursued, having kept on a course toward Madelia to a farm where I
knew there were some good horses, once in possession of which we could get along faster.

We had been living on scant rations, corn, watermelon and other vegetables principally, but
in spite of this Bob’s arm was mending somewhat.  He had to sleep with it pillowed on my breast,
Jim being also crippled with a wound in his shoulder, and we could not get much sleep.  The
wound in my thigh was troubling me and I had to walk with a cane I cut in the brush. One place
we got a chicken and cooked it, only to be interrupted before we could have our feast, having
to make a quick dash for cover.

At every stopping place we left marks of blood from our wounds, and could have been easily
trailed had not the pursuers been led in the track of our recent companions.

It seems from what I have read since, however, that I had myself left with my landlord at Madelia,
Col. Vought, of the Flanders house, a damaging suggestion which proved the ultimate undoing
of our party.  I had talked with him about a bridge between two lakes near there, and accordingly
when it became known that the robbers had passed Mankato Vought thought of this bridge, and
it was guarded by him and others for two nights.  When they abandoned the guard, however, he
admonished a Norwegian boy named Oscar Suborn to keep close watch there for us, and Thursday
morning, Sept. 21, just two weeks after the robbery, Oscar saw us, and fled into town with
the alarm.  A party of forty was soon out in search for us, headed by Capt. W. W. Murphy, Col.
Vought and Sheriff Glispin.  They came up with us as we were fording a small slough, and unable
to ford it with their horses, they were delayed somewhat by having to go around it.  But they
soon after got close enough so that one of them broke my walking stick with a shot.  We were
in sight of our long-sought horses when they cut us off from the animals, and our last hope
was gone.  We were at bay on the open prairie, surrounded by a picket line of forty men, some
of whom would fight.  Not prepared to stand for our last fight against such odds on the open
field, we fell back into the Watonwan river bottoms and took refuge in some bushes.

We were prepared to wait as long as they would, but they were not of the waiting kind.  At
least some of them were not, and soon we heard the captain, who, we afterward learned, was
W. W. Murphy, calling for volunteers to go in with him and rout us out. Six stepped to the
front, Sheriff Glispin, Col. T. L. Vought, B. M. Rice, G. A. Bradford, C. A. Pomeroy and S.
J. Severson.

Forming in line four paces apart, he ordered them to advance rapidly and concentrate the fire
of the whole line the instant the robbers were discovered.

Meanwhile we were planning, too.

“Pitts,” I said, “if you want to go out and surrender, go on.”

“I’ll not go,” he replied, game to the last.  “I can die as well as you can.”

“Make for the horses,” I said.  “Every man for himself.  There is no use stopping to pick up
a comrade here, for we can’t get him through the line. Just charge them and make it if we can.”

I got up as the signal for the charge and we fired one volley.

I tried to get my man, and started through, but the next I knew I was lying on the ground,
bleeding from my nose and mouth, and Bob was standing up, shouting:

“Coward!”

One of the fellows in the outer line, not brave enough himself to join the volunteers who had
come in to beat us out, was not disposed to believe in the surrender, and had his gun levelled
on Bob in spite of the handkerchief which was waving as a flag of truce.

Sheriff Glispin, of Watonwan county, who was taking Bob’s pistol from him, was also shouting
to the fellow:

“Don’t shoot him or I’ll shoot you.”

All of us but Bob had gone down at the first fire.  Pitts, shot through the heart, lay dead.
Jim, including the wound in the shoulder he received at Northfield, had been shot five times,
the most serious being the shot which shattered his upper jaw and lay imbedded beneath the
brain, and a shot that buried itself underneath his spine, and which gave him trouble to the
day of his death.  Including those received in and on the way from Northfield I had eleven wounds.

A bullet had pierced Bob’s right lung, but he was the only one left on his feet.  His right
arm useless, and his pistol empty, he had no choice.

“I surrender,” he had shouted.  “They’re all down but me.  Come on. I’ll not shoot.”

And Sheriff Glispin’s order not to shoot was the beginning of the protectorate that Minnesota
people established over us.

We were taken into Madelia that day and our wounds dressed, and I greeted my old landlord,
Col. Vought, who had been one of the seven to go in to get us.  We were taken to his hotel
and a guard posted.

Then came the talk of mob vengeance we had heard so often in Missouri.  It was said a mob would
be out that night to lynch us.  Sheriff Glispin swore we would never be mobbed as long as we
were his prisoners.

“I don’t want any man to risk his life for us,” I said to him, “but if they do come for us
give us our pistols so we can make a fight for it.”

“If they do come, and I weaken,” he said, “you can have your pistols.”

But the only mob that came was the mob of sightseers, reporters and detectives.

30. TO PRISON FOR LIFE

Saturday we were taken to Faribault, the county seat of Rice county, in which Northfield is,
and here there was more talk of lynching, but Sheriff Ara Barton was not of that kind either,
and we were guarded by militia until the excitement had subsided.  A Faribault policeman, who
thought the militia guard was a bluff, bet five dollars he could go right up to the jail without
being interfered with.  He did not halt when challenged, and was fired upon and killed, the
coroner’s jury acquitting the militiaman who shot him.  Some people blamed us for his death, too.

Chief of Detectives McDonough, of St. Louis, whom I had passed a few months before in the union
depot at St. Louis, was among our visitors at Faribault.

Another was Detective Bligh, of Louisville, who believed then, and probably did ever afterward,
that I had been in the Huntington, West Virginia, robbery, and tried to pump me about it.

Four indictments were found against us.  One charged us with being accessory to the murder
of Cashier Heywood, another with assaulting Bunker with intent to do great bodily harm, and
the third with robbing the First National bank of Northfield.  The fourth charged me as principal
and my brothers as accessories with the murder of Gustavson.  Two witnesses had testified before
the grand jury identifying me as the man who fired the shot that hit him, although I know I
did not, because I fired no shot in that part of town.

Although not one of us had fired the shot that killed either Heywood or Gustavson, our attorneys,
Thomas Rutledge of Madelia and Bachelder and Buckham of Faribault, asked, when we were arraigned,
Nov. 9, that we be given two days in which to plead.

They advised us that as accessories were equally guilty with the principals, under the law,
and as by pleading guilty we could escape capital punishment, we should plead guilty.  There
was little doubt, under the circumstances, of our conviction, and under the law as it stood
then, an accused murderer who pleaded guilty was not subject to the death penalty.  The state
was new, and the law had been made to offer an inducement to murderers not to put the county
to the expense of a trial.

The excitement that followed our sentence to state prison, which was popularly called “cheating
the gallows,” resulted in the change of the law in that respect.

The following Saturday we pleaded guilty, and Judge Lord sentenced us to imprisonment for the
remainder of our lives in the state prison at Stillwater, and a few days later we were taken
there by Sheriff Barton.

With Bob it was a life sentence, for he died there of consumption Sept. 16, 1889.  He was never
strong physically after the shot pierced his lung in the last fight near Madelia.

31. SOME PRIVATE HISTORY

Every blood-and-thunder history of the Younger brothers declares that Frank and Jesse James
were the two members of the band that entered Northfield who escaped arrest or death.

They were not, however.  One of those two men was killed afterward in Arizona and the other
died from fever some years afterward.

There were reasons why the James and the Younger brothers could not take part in any such project
as that at Northfield.

Frank James and I came together as soldiers some little time before the Lawrence raid.  He
was a good soldier, and while he never was higher than a private the distinctions between the
officers and the men were not as finely drawn in Quantrell’s command as they are nowadays in
military life. As far back as 1862, Frank James and I formed a friendship, which has existed
to this day.

Jesse James I never met, as I have already related, until the early summer of 1866.  The fact
that all of us were liable to the visits of posses when least expected gave us one interest
in common, the only one we ever did have, although we were thrown together more or less through
my friendship with Frank James.

The beginning of my trouble with Jesse came in 1872, when George W. Shepherd returned to Lee’s
Summit after serving a term in prison in Kentucky for the bank robbery at Russellville in 1868.

Jesse had told me that Shepherd was gunning for me, and accordingly one night, when Shepherd
came late to the home of Silas Hudspeth, where I was, I was prepared for trouble, as in fact,
I always was anyway.

When Shepherd called, Hudspeth shut the door again, and told me who was outside.  I said “let
him in,” and stepping to the door with my pistol in my hand, I said:

“Shepherd, I am in here; you’re not afraid, are you?”

“That’s all right,” he answered.  “Of course I’m not afraid.”  The three of us talked till
bedtime, when Hudspeth told us to occupy the same bed. I climbed in behind, and as was my custom,
took my pistol to bed with me. Shepherd says he did not sleep a wink that night, but I did.
At breakfast next morning, I said:

“I heard yesterday that you intended to kill me on sight; have you lost your nerve?”

“Who told you that, Cole?” he answered.

“I met Jess yesterday and he told me that you sent that message to me by him.”

Soon after I met Jesse James, and but for the interference of friends we would have shot it
out then and there.

My feeling toward Jesse became more bitter in the latter part of that year, when after the
gate robbery at the Kansas City fair, he wrote a letter to the Times of that city declaring
that he and I had been accused of the robbery, but that he could prove an alibi.  So far as
I know that is the first time my name was ever mentioned in connection with the Kansas City
robbery.

In 1874, when Detective Whicher was killed on a trip to arrest Frank and Jesse James, I was
angered to think that Jesse and his friends had brought Whicher from Kearney to the south side
of the river, which I then believed was done to throw suspicion on the boys in Jackson county,
of whom, perhaps, I would be most likely to get the credit.  I have since learned, however,
from the men who did kill Whicher, that Jesse did not kill him, but had believed his story
and had been inclined to welcome him as a fellow wanderer.  Whicher declared that he had murdered
his wife and children in the East and he was seeking a refuge from the officers of the law.
But Jesse’s comrades were skeptical, and when they found on Whicher a pistol bearing Pinkerton’s
mark, they started with him for Kansas City intending to leave him dead in the street there.
Shortly after they crossed to the Independence side of the river, the sound of a wagon on the
frozen ground impelled them to finish the job where they were, as it was almost daybreak and
they did not want to be seen with their captive.

But Jesse and I were not on friendly terms at any time after the Shepherd affair, and never
were associated in any enterprises.

32. LOST—TWENTY-FIVE YEARS

When the iron doors shut behind us at the Stillwater prison I submitted to the prison discipline
with the same unquestioning obedience that I had exacted during my military service, and Jim
and Bob, I think, did the same.

For ten years and a half after our arrival, Warden Reed remained.  The first three years there
was a popular idea that such desperate men as the Youngers would not stay long behind prison
walls, and that especial watchfulness must be exercised in our case.  Accordingly the three
of us were put at work making buckets and tubs, with Ben Cayou over us as a special guard,
when in our dreams we had been traveling to South America on Ben Butler’s money.

Then we were put in the thresher factory. I made the sieves, while Jim sewed the belts, and
Bob made the straw-carriers and elevators.

The latter part of the Reed regime I was in the storeroom.

Jan. 25, 1884, when we had been in the prison something over seven years, the main prison building
was destroyed by fire at night.  George P. Dodd, who was then connected with the prison, while
his wife was matron, and who still lives in Buffalo, Minn., said of our behavior that night:

“I was obliged to take the female convicts from their cells and place them in a small room
that could not be locked.  The Youngers were passing and Cole asked if they could be of any
service.  I said: ‘Yes, Cole.  Will you three boys take care of Mrs. Dodd and the women?’ 
Cole answered: ‘Yes, we will, and if you ever had any confidence in us place it in us now.’
I told him I had the utmost confidence and I slipped a pistol to Cole as I had two.  Jim, I
think, had an ax handle and Bob a little pinch bar.  The boys stood before the door of the
little room for hours and even took the blankets they had brought with them from their cells
and gave them to the women to try and keep them comfortable as it was very cold.  When I could
take charge of the women and the boys were relieved, Cole returned my revolver.”

Next morning Warden Reed was flooded with telegrams and newspaper sensations: “Keep close watch
of the Youngers;” “Did the Youngers escape?” “Plot to free the Youngers,” and that sort of thing.

The warden came to his chief deputy, Abe Hall, and suggested that we be put in irons, not that
he had any fear on our account, but for the effect on the public.

“I’ll not put irons on ’em,” replied Hall.

And that day Hall and Judge Butts took us in a sleigh down town to the county jail where we
remained three or four weeks.  That was the only time we were outside the prison enclosure
from 1876 till 1901.

