There is just one kind of growth--growth in wisdom. We hear of children "who grow up in ignorance."
We likewise hear that the earth is square and the moon a green cheese. Children can no more
grow in ignorance than they can grow in a dark and air-tight case. All growth, mental, moral,
spiritual or "physical," is by increase in in-telligence; i.e., by recognition of more truth.
All things exist in a limitless sea of pure wisdom waiting, waiting to be understood. As fast
as this universal wisdom is used it becomes in-told--intelligence-- recognized wisdom. We breathe
in wisdom and grow in intelligence. All growth, mineral, plant, animal, man or god, conscious
or unconscious--ALL growth is by this process. It is DESIRE that makes us breathe. Everything
cries out for more, more!--it cannot define always what it wants, but it wants, with insatiable
craving. It is more wisdom the whole creation groaneth and travaileth to get. "Give me more
understanding or I die!"--the visible eternally cries out to the Invisible. Desire is the ceaseless
life-urge of all things, from amoeba to archangel. Desire is "Immanuer'--God with us--God in
us to will and to do."

CHAPTER X.

HARMONY AT HOME.

"I have recently married for the second time. My husband is a splendid man but his grown up
children are not in harmony with me. Good people, but a different point of view. I make no
pretensions to perfection, of course, but I do try to do the best lean."

This is the gist of several letters I have received from as many different women. I will answer
them together.

When you enter a new home the matter of importance is not whether your new relatives harmonize
with you, but whether you harmonize with them. It is for you to do all the adjusting.

This may seem hard, but it is not. It is an easier matter for one person to readjust her living
than for a whole family to change. The family has not only its individual customs to hold each
one, but its family customs as well; whilst you have left your family and have only your individual
self to readjust. If you refuse to adjust yourself, for no matter what reason, you will act
upon this family you have entered, as a red hot iron would act upon a pan of water--there'll
be boil and bubble, toil and trouble and the family will fly to pieces. All because you came
in with positive notions of your own which you insist upon enforcing.

But if you come into the family like a lump of sugar into a glass of water you will all, in
time melt together and the whole family will be the sweeter and better for your coming. Whatever
there is in you which is better and sweeter than their own ideas and customs will in time be
absorbed by the family; for what is good is ever positive to the less good, and has a power
of its own to convert; and every human soul, if left free, will eventually choose the good.

The only danger lies in your tilting your nose at their ways and ideas, and insisting upon
your own. It is the second, which comes more easily credit to all parties. It is the third that produces
less interest. (None of these reasons militate in Spain today. Economists explain why.) is the fourth,
and perhaps the most powerful, that our century, as more civilized than previous ones, is also more
spiritual.

And here I can not help stopping to condemn the ridiculous habit of giving in charge of materialistic
century. What century spiritualist was never more than ours? Music is the most spiritual of
all art and flowers now flourish extraordinary. Just no fool, who, if he had lived two or three
centuries ago, not having received more than eating, not now enjoy, or at least do not say that
enjoys listening to music wiser and convoluted. Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, says there are
only two essential things that move man: namely: Inspection and maintenance, and one that I would
not dare to lie, although the tool Archpriest, shielded with Aristotle

If
dixiese of mine, would be to blame; Grand philosopher said to him,
not me to crawl.

    
    

So was the concept materialistic in the fourteenth century was a Catholic priest in the Catholic Spain,
the mobile core of human action! Out of these phones did not succeed to discover other mobile.
How things have changed in the day! The music also moves and no man who does not like going
to the Royal Theatre.

But the spirituality of our century is synthetic, and this is the reason that some, do not understand
him, accused of materialistic century. In the past, or if there was no matter and left it at
home as something lost and given to the devil, falling which that were in the mill, or was abused
and punished as rebellious subjects where people came to take in the most cruel asceticism. In our time
trying to rehabilitate people matter, in the best sense of the word,
and purify it as they can. He has been estranged from us all for
several years, although sleeping under the same roof. Once I can find out the person or cause
of his actions I can remove the effect, for I shall know just what to do. I want to solve the
mystery."

The chances are you will never find that out, and if you did it would do you absolutely no
good. Your husband is no dumb fool to be "influenced" this way or that by two women! He is
a man with ideas of his own. If he was disappointed in you as wife, he has possibly turned
to some other woman. If so the more you pry and suspect and hint around, the more positively
he will turn away from you. If you "found out" and made things warm for him or another he would
simply hate and despise you and be the harder set against you. This is the Law.

The thing for you to do is to recognize your husband's RIGHT to make and answer for his own
mistakes. Then drop the whole thing from your mind and calculations.

Then treat your husband as you would any man who came to visit you. Make yourself as attractive
and cultured and agreeable as possible, and look out for his comfort, but never get in his
way nor question his doings. Stand square up on your own feet and be as fine a woman as you
know how to be--as gracious a one. If he does love some other woman it may be but a temporary
infatuation and if you are attractive and kind and sensible and independent enough he may return
to his first love in his own good time.

If not, why, no matter. Just you get interested in life on your own account and let him do
as he will. If he does care for another woman he deserves credit for not deserting you, as
many a man would have done. Just respect and honor him for the good that is in him, instead
of condemning him mentally because the good does not show just according to your ideas of how
it should.

Love does not stay put, no matter how hard folks try to keep it put. All we can do is to be
as lovable as possible and thus do our part to attract love.

It may be that you are simply a sentimental goose who imagines her husband is "influenced"
away from her, because, forsooth, he does not pay her the attentions he used to.

I was once that kind of a goose myself, and it widened a breach that did not then exist except
in my mind; widened it until at last it became a real breach--my husband went elsewhere for
his companionship. I was too morbid and finicky and exacting for a healthy man.

Just as the husband of the woman in "Confessions of a Wife," in Century did. I read that serial
each month and feel like shaking that little simpleton!--she is just the kind of a sentimental
hair-splitting little idiot that I used to be! Instead of getting at her husband's point of
view and enjoying with him, at least sometimes, she insists on acting the martyr because he
will not dawdle around and gush at her feet.

Whatever is the cause of your trouble the only cure for it is Common-Sense. Live your own life,
cheerily, happily, and enter into your husband's life so far as you can. Take all the good
things that come your way and rejoice in them, but don't moon around and fuss because you can't
have the sort of love-life described in some sentimental novel. Your business in life is to
LOVE, not to be loved. The latter is a secondary matter and the first is the thing that brings
happiness to you. Go in to win now, and you can develop within yourself the full Life that
you really desire. All you desire is yours and you will realize it in due time. But every moment
you set your thought on straightening out Some Other body's life you are delaying your own
realization and happiness.

CHAPTER XII.

THE FAMILY JAR.

"If a man and woman love each other and are every way suited to marry should they yield to
the opposition of his grown daughter?" M.A.

This question in varying forms comes to me often. It always stirs within me something I used
to call "righteous indignation." And incidentally it makes me smile. Translate the question
into Plain English and anybody can answer it without hesitancy. Put it this way: When two Individuals
know what they want and the whole world approves, should they go away back and sit down because
a third Individual tries to interfere with their inherent right to the pursuit of happiness?

Of course not. A man or woman old enough to have a grown daughter is old enough to know whether
he wants to marry again. Not even the most precocious daughter is a better judge than her father
as to what is best for his own happiness.

Ah, there's the rub! It is not his happiness she is concerned about. It is her own. A new marriage
would interfere with the daughter's plans. She would have to give the chief place to the new
wife. She would have to give up a share of the prospective inheritance she has more or less
consciously been counting upon. So she opposes her father's re-marrying.

But apparently not on these grounds--dear, no! Her father is "too old," or "too weakly," or
the intended wife is "not nice." The daughter conjures up a dozen excuses, but never the real
one; of which she is not fully conscious herself,--and doesn't want to be.

The parent's "duty" to children is great; far greater than the child's duty to parent; but
parental self-sacrifice should certainly not be continued for life. A grown daughter is an
Individual, who should stand on her own feet and make her own happiness without curtailing
the happiness of parents.

Let her leave her father to a renewal of youth and happiness; or let her gracefully and kindly
accept her rightful second place and use her loving energies in helping to make bright the home.

A sensible, well trained, loving daughter will do one of these two things.

A sensible, well trained, loving parent will consider his daughter's feelings and will do all
he can to gain her willingness before he marries; but he will not make a lasting sacrifice
of his own and the other woman's happiness simply to please a selfish girl.

If daughter and parent are not sensible, well trained and loving, it will be a case of frying
pan or fire either way.

The recognition of individual rights to the pursuit of happiness according to individual desire,
is the only basis of happiness in family relations.

The daughter who helps her father do as he desires will find him ready to help her do as she
desires. And vice versa.

The daughter who "opposes" her father's marriage is quite apt to be the daughter who has been
opposed by her father; he reaps as he has sown. Or else she is the daughter who has been brought
up with the idea that parents are a mere convenience for her use.

The way out of the Family Jar is often labyrinthine; but the Loving Individual can always thread
it.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE TRUTH ABOUT DIVORCE.

In January Psychic and Occult Views and Reviews the editor, M.T.C. Wing, presents a view of
"Wives and Work" which is anything but an occult view of the subject. He evidently still clings
to the old notion that man was made for the family, and not the family for man. He inveighs
against George D. Herron and Elbert Hubbard et al because they permitted themselves to be separated
from their wives. Apparently he thinks the chief end of man is to tote some woman around on
a chip, and the fact that in his callow youth man picked out (or was picked out by) the wrong
woman, cuts no figure in the matter. Man must keep on toting her even if he has to give up
his life work by which he has been enabled to supply the chip, not to mention the other things
the woman demands.

All of which is the very superficial view of the world at large, and has no place among new
thought, "occult" teachings. It is entirely too obvious--to the old-fashioned sentimentalist,
who is blind to the real facts in cases of separation.

The sentimentalist gets just two views of the family, and draws his hasty conclusions therefrom.
He sees first a happy family, a charming, clinging little simpleton of a wife, with half a
dozen or so infants clinging to her skirts and bosom, and her round eyes lifted in adorable
helplessness to the face of that great, strong lord and master, her husband. In his second
view of the family he beholds this strong man turn his back upon this adoring family and walk
deliberately forth to self-gratification, leaving them to perish from hunger and grief. Fired
with these pretty and entirely fanciful pictures the superficial observer burns with indignation
and calls down anathema upon the head of the deserter.

The fact is that no man ever deserts a family under such conditions. There is always a long
period of disintegration before any family goes to pieces--a period of which both man and wife
are well aware. When a separation comes it is really a relief to both parties. The only real
pain in such cases comes from the spirit of revenge, or a desire on the part of one or the
other to pose as injured innocence, that she or he may rake in the sympathy and fire the indignation
of just such uninformed friends as M.T.C. Wing.

I have known a lot of people who separated--known them intimately and observed them well. In
not one of these cases did the deserted party claim to love the deserter. In all there was
a real relief when it was all over. In every case the one thing which had held them together
so long was fear of disgrace. "Oh, what will people think of me?"--is the first cry of everybody--especially
women. It was that which made the deserted one unhappy and resentful. It is that which makes
many women pose as injured innocents and rate the deserter as a villain. And all the time in
secret they are glad, glad that they are relieved of the burden of living with an uncongenial
husband or wife.

Of course there are other reasons why women hate to be left by their husbands. One is that
their support is apt to go with the deserter. 

And, so, he came down from the pulpit and instructed that they devoutly beg Our Lord in the goodness
that he has, to forgive the sinner and toss out the demon, if His Majesty admitted he entered
into great sin.

The fear of public opinion and the love, not of money, but of ease, holds together under one
roof tens of thousands of families who have been occultly and really separated for years.

A man is held by the same sentimental notion that M.T.C. Wing has--that he must "protect" the
woman. So he stays in hell to do it. He has to stay in hell until she gets out.

