That effort seemed to be the straw which broke the camel's back, and I was so ill as to demand
medical attendance. For this I sent to Campbell. Dr. Kelly came, but his forte was surgery,
and my case was left with Dr. True, who had had longer practice in medicine. They both decided
that I had been inoculated with gangrene while dressing wounds, and for some weeks I continued
to sink. I began to think my illness fatal, and asked the doctor, who said:

"I have been thinking I ought to tell you that if you have any unsettled business you should
attend to it."

I had a feeling of being generally distributed over the bed, of being a mass of pulp without
any central force, but I had had a letter that day from my daughter, who was with her father
and grandmother in Swissvale, and wanted to come to me, and the thought came: "Does God mean
to make my child an orphan, that others may receive their children by my death?" Then I had
a strange sensation of a muster, a gathering of scattered life-force, and when it all came
together it made a protest; I signed to the doctor, who put his ear to my lips, and I said:

"Doctor True, I shall live to be an hundred and twenty years old!"

He took up the lamp, threw the light on my face, and peered anxiously into it, and I looked
straight into his eyes, and said:

"I will!"

He laughed and set down the lamp, saying:

"Then you must get over this!"

"You must get me over it. Bring Dr. Kelly!"

Next morning, I had them carry me into a larger room, where the morning sun shone on me, and
ten days after, started for Pennsylvania, where I spent three weeks with my old Swissvale neighbors,
Col. Hawkins and Wm. S. Haven.

When I returned to Washington, I found an official document, a recommendation from the Quarter-Master
General, of my dismissal for absence without leave. It was addressed to Secretary Stanton,
who had written on the outside:

"Respectfully referred to Mrs. Swisshelm, by Edwin M. Stanton."

I went back to work, and learned that Mrs. Gen. Barlow had died of typhoid fever, in Washington.
No man died more directly for the Government. Thousands who fell on the battle-field, exhibited
less courage and devotion to that service, and did less to secure its success. I know not where
her body lies, but wherever it does, no decoration-day should pass in which her memory is not
crowned with immortelles.

She died at a time when my life was despaired of, and when Mrs. Ingersol wrote to a Maine paper
of my illness, adding:

"I hope the Lord will not take her away, until He has made another like her."

She told me afterwards that just then she held the world at a grudge; but it must have been
relieved of my presence long ere this, if I had not found in homoepathy relief from pain, which
for eight months made life a burden, and for which the best old-school physicians proposed no cure.

CHAPTER LXXVIII.

AN EFFICIENT NURSE.

To show the capabilities of some of the women who thought they had a mission for saving the
country by acting as hospital nurses, I give the history of one.

While I lay ill, a friend came and told of a most excellent woman who had come from afar, and
tendered her services to the Government, who had exerted much influence and spent much effort
to get into a hospital as nurse, but had failed.

Hearing of my illness, her desire to be useful led her to tender her services, so that if she
could not nurse wounded soldiers she could nurse one who had. The generous offer was accepted,
and I was left an afternoon in her care.

I wanted a cup of tea. She went to the kitchen to make it, and one hour after came up with
a cup of tea, only this and nothing more, save a saucer. To taste the tea. I must have a spoon,
and to get one she must go along a hall, down a long flight of stairs, through another hall
and the kitchen, to the pantry. When she had made the trip the tea was so much too strong that
a spoonful would have made a cup. She went down again for hot water, and after she had got
to the kitchen remembered that she had thrown it out, thinking it would not be wanted. The
fire had gone out, and she came up to inquire if she should make a new one, and if so, where
she should find kindling? She had spent almost two hours running to and fro, was all in perspiration
and a fluster, had done me a great deal of harm and nobody any good, had wasted all the kindlings
for the evening fire, enough tea to have served a large family for a meal, and fairly illustrated
a large part of the hospital service rendered by women oppressed with the nursing mission.

My sense of relief was inexpressible when Mrs. George B. Lincoln returned from her visit to
the White House, sent my tea-maker away and took charge of me once more.

CHAPTER LXXIX.

TWO FREDERICKSBURG PATIENTS.

Some months after leaving Fredericksburg, I was walking on Pennsylvania avenue, when the setting
sun shone in my face, and a man in uniform stopped me, saying:

"Excuse me! you do not know me, but I know you!"

I turned, looked at him carefully, and said:

"I do not know you!"

"Oh, no! but the last time you saw me, you cut off my beard with your scissors and fed me with
a teaspoon. When you left me you did not think you would ever see me again."

"Oh!" I exclaimed joyfully, "you are Dutton."

He laughed, and replied, "That's me. I have just got a furlough and am going home."

He was very pale and thin, but I was so glad to see him and shake hands, and wish him safely
home with his friends.

During the great review after the war, I had a seat near the President's stand. There was a
jam, and a man behind me called my attention to a captain, at a short distance, who had something
to say to me, and passed along the words:

"You took care of me on the boat coming from Fredericksburg."

Looking across, I could see him quite well, but even when his hat was off could not recognize
him; and this is all I have ever heard from or of the men with whose lives mine was so knit
during that terrible time.

I fear that not many survived, and doubt if a dozen of them ever knew me by any other name
than that of "Mother."

CHAPTER LXXX.

AM ENLIGHTENED.

When Early appeared before Washington, we all knew there was nothing to prevent his coming
in and taking possession. The forts were stripped. There were no soldiers either in or around
the city. The original inhabitants were ready to welcome him with open arms. The departments
were closed, that the clerks might go out in military array, to oppose; but of course few soldiers
were sitting at desks at that stage of the war. The news at the Quartermaster's office one
morning was that the foreign ministers had been notified, and that the city would be shelled
that afternoon. We lived on the north side of the city; and when I went home, thousands of
people were on the streets, listening to the sound of guns at Fort Reno.

So far as I knew, there was a universal expectation that the city would be occupied by rebel
troops that night. As this was in harmony with the general tenor of my anticipations for a
quarter of a century, I readily shared in the popular opinion, and for once was with the majority.

Among the groups who stood in the streets were many contrabands, and their faces were pitiful
to see. One scantily-clad woman, holding a ragged infant, and with two frightened, ragged children
clinging to her skirts, stood literally quaking. Her black face had turned gray with terror,
and she came to me and asked:

"Oh! Missus! does ye tink dey will get in?"

Suddenly my eyes were opened, like those of the prophet's servant when he saw the horses and
chariots of fire, and I replied:

"No! never! They will come no nearer than they now are! You can go home and rest in peace,
for you are just as safe from them as if you were in heaven!"

She was greatly comforted; but a gentleman said, as she moved away:

"I wish I could share your opinion; but what is to hinder their coming in?"

"God is to hinder! He has appointed us to rescue these people. They are collected here in thousands,
and the prayers of centuries are to be answered now!"

I myself went home feeling all the confidence I spoke, and wondering I could have been so stupid
as to doubt. Our Government and people were very imperfect, but had developed a sublime patriotism--made
an almost miraculous growth in good. Ten righteous men would have saved Sodom. We had ten thousand;
and I must think there are few histories of supernatural interference in the affairs of the
Jews more difficult to account for, on merely natural grounds, than the preservation of Washington
in that crisis.

CONCLUSION.

December 6th, 1865, the fiftieth anniversary of my birth, found me in Washington, at work in
the Quarter-Master's office, on a salary of sixty dollars a month, without any provision for
support in old age; and so great a sufferer as never to have a night of rest unbroken by severe
pain, but with my interest in a country rescued from the odium of Southern slavery, and a faint
light breaking of the day which is yet to abolish that of the West.

In the summer of '66, Dr. King, of Pittsburg, came to know what I would take for my interest
in ten acres of the Swissvale estate, which he had purchased. My deed had presented a barrier
to the sale of a portion of it, and he was in trouble:

I consulted Secretary Stanton, who said:

"Your title to that property is good against the world!"

It had become valuable and the idea of its ownership was alarming! I had made up my mind to
poverty, had been discharged from the Quarter-Master's office by special order of President
Johnson, "for speaking disrespectfully of the President of the United States!"--Washington
Star--was the first person dismissed by Mr. Johnson; was without visible means of support,
could not suddenly adjust my thought to anything so foreign to all my plans as coming into
possession of a valuable estate, and said:

"Oh, Secretary Stanton, how shall I ever undertake such a stewardship at my time of life?"
He looked sternly at me, and replied:

"Mrs. Swisshelm, don't be a fool! take care of yourself! It is time you would begin. The property
is yours now. You are morally responsible for it, and can surely make some better use of it
than giving it away to rich men around Pittsburg. Go at once and attend to your interests."

This was our last interview. I instituted the suit he advised, and he would have plead my cause
before the Supreme Court, but when it came up he was holding possession of the War Department
to defeat President Johnson's policy of making the South triumphant. However, the decree of
the court was in my favor, and through it I have been able to rescue the old log block house
from the tooth of decay, and to sit in it and recall those passages of life with which it is
so intimately connected.

THE END.