And Romulus and Remus had not yet emerged from the sheep folds upon the Italian hills. But
very early in the history of the world, and as students of history believe, earlier than the
call of Abraham, the interests of mankind had called into existence along the eastern shore
of the Mediterranean Sea an active and intelligent population which had engaged in commerce
as a means of subsistence, and were carrying it on with such success as was possible in the
then condition of the world of mankind. A civilization had sprung up at a very early period
along the banks of the united rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates, and from the Persian gulf
to Nineveh and Nimroud, where was produced a great variety of articles of necessity and luxury
unknown to the rest of the world. We all understand the story told of Aehan, who secreted in
the floor of his tent a Babalonish garment about fourteen hundred years before the Christian
era, while Israel was battling against Ai[TN-2] See Joshua, Chap. 8. The children of Japhet
had passed up through Persia to the Caucasus, and from the Caucasus around the Black Sea to
the waters of the Danube and the Grecian Islands. The luxuries produced in the valley of the
Euphrates and the Tigris, called Mesopotamia, furnished a ready basis for a successful commerce
across the desert by the way of Damascus to the shores of the Mediterranean; and it was by
this means that a commerce sprang up along these shores such as the world had never seen, and
which rendered the people resident there the leaders in all the arts of life, including the
art of navigation, throughout the then known world, a result but twice paralleled on earth,
once in the middle ages at Venice and once in our own age at our magical Chicago. This enabled
this people to become the leaders of their race down to about six hundred years before Christ,
when there came that terrible war wherein Nebuchadnezzar, by besieging Tyre, caused “every
head of that people to become bald and every shoulder to become pealed.”[TN-3] Tyre subsisted
after the siege of Nebuchadnezzar, but Tyre never attained again the prosperity or influence
which she possessed at the commencement of this memorable siege. She had before this time planted
two hundred and fifty cities upon the north coast of Africa, including the celebrated city
of Carthage. She had settled and occupied two hundred cities in the territory of Spain, and
for centuries occupied the whole of that country up to the Ebro. The Jewish historians speak
of Spain as Tharshish. Greek writers speak of Spain as Tartesus. Jewish historians and prophets
speak of the ships of Tharshish as the most magnificent sea-going crafts known to the world,
as we for half of a century boasted of our Baltimore Clipper. Her sailors passed beyond the
Pillars of Hercules and passed up the northwest coast of France and established their religion,
the worship of Baal, or the sun, among the simple people of Bretagne so firmly and universally
that at this day at Carnac, in the Morbihan, there stand more Phœnician funereal monuments
of unknown antiquity than can be found together in any form of religion in any other portion
of the world’s surface. They discovered tin in the Scilly Islands, off the coast of Cornwall,
and wrought those mines for centuries. Those Islands were known to the ancient Greeks and Romans
as the Cassiterrides, or Tin Islands. They worked both tin and copper mines in Cornwall, and
made profits on the sale of the products throughout the known world. They passed up the British
channel and through the German Ocean, and in the immense sand dunes at the mouth of the Baltic
discovered and utilized that beautiful product of the primeval forests called amber, which
they dug from the sand hills. They took with them their priests (the priests of Baal) and introduced
the worship of the sun, and made that worship paramount and universal in England, Ireland and
Scotland, as well as in Bretagne and the northwest of France. So thoroughly has the religion
of Baal been fastened upon the peoples of these regions that portions of them at this day salute
the arrival of the Summer Solstice, June twenty-fourth, with burning fires, the precise meaning
of which is forgotten, but through those fires in all the early portions of the present century
the inhabitants have jumped with their little ones in their arms, as the phrase goes, on Saint
John’s eve, “for luck.” The wizard of the north, Sir Walter Scott, in his song entitled “Hail
to the Chief,” in the Lady of the Lake, has the following when speaking of “Clan Alpines Pine”:

    “Ours is no saplin,
    Chance sown by the fountain,
    Blooming at Beltane,” (Baaltime)
    “In winter to fade.”

Indeed the literary men of Scotland very generally call the Summer Solstice the Beltane. One
of the finest of the smaller towns in England even to this day bears the name of Belper, (i. e.
Baalpeor.)

They built that wonderful prehistoric open air temple, still standing upon Salsbury Plain,
and bearing the name of Stonehenge, the most wonderful monument now standing upon the earth’s
surface. They built several other circular open air temples in the British Islands, and conspicuously
among them, away up in the Orkneys, above Scotland, a very perfect and beautiful one called
the “Standing Stones of Stennes.”

They visited the Azore Islands, west of Gibraltar, out in the Atlantic ocean, and as we learn
by Chateaubriand’s Outretombe, Phœnician coin in the last century was found scattered in the
soil of these Islands. A man who carries his eyes about him will rarely enter a large Irish
assembly, or an assembly of Canadian Frenchmen whose blood comes principally from Bretagne,
without noticing here and there a swarthy complexion surrounding intensely bright flashing
eyes which speak of Spain and Carthage and the blood of warmer climes.

About one thousand years before Christ, Solomon, the Prince of Israel, resolved to build a
temple to the God of Abraham which should exhibit on Mount Zion architectural skill and beauty
such as the world had never seen. The construction of that erection was intrusted entirely
to the people of Phœnicia; everything was perfected at Tyre so completely that “no hammer or
instrument of iron sounded upon the building” after its component parts reached the Mount of
God. Even the basins that were to be used in the Lord’s house were constructed by the artizans
of Phœnicia.

IS THERE ANY EVIDENCE EXISTING UPON THE WESTERN CONTINENT SHOWING OR TENDING TO SHOW WHENCE
THE PEOPLE WHO ERECTED THE PREHISTORIC STRUCTURES ON THE WESTERN CONTINENT CAME?

FIRST.

The soil, climate and productions of the Peninsula of Yucatan, and that part of Mexico and
Guatemala where these prehistoric remains are found, are precisely what are described by the
European writers who speak of the beauty, the loveliness and the grandeur of the Hesperides
and the homes founded by eastern adventurers beyond the western ocean.

SECOND.

The prehistoric structures found in those regions and in neighboring regions are all built
on plans and patterns borrowed from lands bordering the Mediterranean Sea, although the structures
seem to have followed verbal descriptions rather than exact mechanical patterns.

All of these structures north of Panama seem to have been erected for public purposes, and
probably in connection with the offices of some form of religion; and every structure of them,
of which any appreciable portion is standing, is built upon or in connection with pyramids
as perfectly pyramidal and regularly constructed as were the pyramids of ancient Egypt. Most
of these pyramids, however, are mere earth mounds, instead of being constructed of brick or
stone as were those upon the banks of the Nile. Let us refer to a few of the localities where
these pyramidal structures are most conspicuous.

At Copan, situate at the western border of Honduras, and by the side of the river Copan, is
a large enclosure, some two miles in extent, bounded upon the one side by the Copan river,
on the bank of which are walls of beautiful cut and fitted stone rising to the height of fifty
to one hundred feet, designed to keep the earth upon that side of the river from being carried
away by floods. This river at this place constitutes one side of a tract of land laid out nearly
in a square, along the outer sides of which, at regular intervals, are constructed, and still
remaining, a very large number of pyramids made of hewn stone evidently designed to outline
this extended sacred field.

This field within, is ornamented with a wealth of statuary, monuments and figures of idols,
practically inconceivable in amount; but we count this statuary of no importance now, as we
are confining our attention to the tendency of this prehistoric people to erect pyramids. For
a fuller account of this locality we refer to Stephens’ Travels in Central America, Chiapas
and Yucatan, Vol. 1, Chap. 8.

At Santa Cruz Del Quiche, within the State of Chiapas, Mexico, there exists a pyramid erected
for defensive purposes, constructed of earth and terraced as it rises, of enormous proportions;
upon its top is a regular fortification upon the top of which rises a pyramidal temple above
the fortification. Sometimes a man would collect a party found of his companions, break by a village, and
carry to the maiden.

In prevent re-capture they generally went into the woods, where any knot was tied off a priest temples
volens. Then be commenced the negotiation for a reconciliation with the parents, which was generally been
other; as of many instances the young had been the lover into the man, and the secret villagers
used to add their persuasion, who in order to bring about a pacific
solution. The globe itself has become loosened, and
has dropped from its place upon the front of the temple but still rests upon the ground before
it, while the wing to which it was attached remains in place upon the temple as perfect as
when it was first wrought. For a description of these works at Occasingo, see Stephens’ second
volume, chapter 15, page 258, &c.

The same sort of pyramidal structures remain in admirable preservation conspicuous at Palenque,
in Chiapas, where an immense pyramid still exists standing in great perfection with an elegant
temple upon its top. Pyramidal structures and shapings are found everywhere at Palenque. See
Stephens’ Work, above quoted, vol. 2, chap. 20, page 337, &c.

At Uxmal, also in Chiapas, we have another exhibition of pyramidal structures with temples
upon their tops. We refer again to the same work of Stephens, vol. 2, chap. 25, page 420, &c.

These remains, to which we have referred, have far greater importance in our investigation
than can be attached to the mere building of pyramidal structures. The wealth of sculpture
found at the places referred to is immensely great and deserves the attention of scholars and
thinking men to an extent greater than we can now devote to them.

In our view, the people who erected those structures possessed a knowledge and civilization
far in advance of the population that surrounded them, and that the surrounding populations
to a great degree imitated their examples and adopted their religion.

That, as we believe, led to the construction at Cholula, a little town now of ten thousand
inhabitants, fifteen miles from Puebla, on the road leading from Vera Cruz to Mexico, on the
plains of Anahuac, at the height of 6912 feet above the sea, of that immense pyramid of earth
still standing, 177 feet in height, measuring 1445 feet on either side, and ascended by 120 steps.

There are two other pyramids at Otumba, seven leagues north-east of the City of Mexico, and
in the language of the aboriginal inhabitants, called, one “The House of the Sun,” and the
other, “The House of the Moon.” The House of the Sun is 680 feet square at the base, and 221
feet high.

On the top of this there was originally erected a great statue of the sun. The other pyramid
is much smaller but rises to the height of 144 feet, and on its top was a statue of the moon.
Upon the plain about these structures are a number of smaller pyramids not necessary to be
described.--The sides of all the pyramids here constructed correspond with the cardinal points
of the compas.[TN-4] The pyramids that we have referred to are all patterned after those constructed
upon the banks of the Nile, and are all found about the west border of Yucatan, about the north
border of Guatamala[TN-5] and south of the centre of the great Republic of Mexico.

It will be well to remember that the mountains and plains of North America cover millions of
square miles north and east of the country where these pyramids have been constructed, and
that those mountains and plains are covered in many places with earth mounds of an almost inconceivable
variety of forms, and yet the form of the pyramid seems to be utterly unknown on the Western
Continent, except in the narrow region that we have delineated. We might, perhaps, be justified
in asking: From what people on earth could this building of pyramids be copied except from
those dwelling upon the banks of the Nile?

THE RELIGIOUS BELIEF OF THE PEOPLES WHO CONSTRUCTED THE WONDERFUL PREHISTORIC TOWERS AND TEMPLES
UPON THE CONTINENT OF AMERICA.

They were the worshipers of Baal, the god worshiped by the Phœnicians, and paid their devotions
to him with the same rites that they practiced wherever their influence was effective.

It will be remembered that Baal was supposed to exist and was worshiped as a being of biform
existence. In his beneficent qualities, as the sun, he was supposed to be the author and sustainer
of all life and the fountain of all pleasures. In his sterner character wherein he was known
as Moloch or Molech, by the children of Israel, he was the most cruel, stern, relentless monster
that the imagination of man ever depicted, and his votaries everywhere sought to conciliate
him by presenting him with the most horrid scenes of human agony. Attempts were everywhere
made to conciliate him by laying human captives upon his altar, and for want of captives taken
in war, such peaceful citizens as the priests saw fit to select.

Human victims were constantly dying upon a thousand altars not only in Phœnicia, but in all
western and north-western Europe.

It was firmly believed by the votaries of Moloch that he could be most readily conciliated
by the offering of children upon the altars, that he most especially delighted in the sacrifice
of the first born of every family. Men thus offering “the fruit of their bodies for the sin
of their souls.” Early in the history of this worship it was deemed sufficient if children
passed through the fires without the destruction of their lives, but down the ages it came
to be believed, that if a family would secure the favor of this deity, the oldest child of
each union must be actually roasted to conciliate favor. Even good old Abraham who had been
called from upper Chaldea to receive all the land of Israel for him and his seed forever, conceived
the idea that God required the roasting of the son of Sarah upon the hill of Zion, and never
relented until a ray of common sense enlightened his intellectual vision, after he had actually
bound Isaac to the altar.

We have referred to the beautiful monuments that still exist at Uxmal, Palenque, Occasingo,
Queche and Otumba, and to the temples and monuments still standing there. Upon all these beautiful
structures are engraved in the living stone, or wrought in stucco, most striking representations
of the sun with a huge priest on either side, standing with arms outstretched each holding
in his hands a naked child offering it to the relentless deity. The practice of burning human
beings as offerings to the sun existed very extensively down to the date of the Spanish conquest.
Showing that the same so-called religion which prevailed in western Europe before the Roman
conquest, was still paramount and terribly enforced among these settlers in America, though
so far removed from the parent stock. We have spoken thus far of American remains which are
found north of the Isthmus of Panama, but there are still existing, in the old land of Peru,
structures which for thousands of years have been telling the story of their origin. 

"The song for many life" is the expressive title of this sublime chant. This hymn is so old that its front
is lost in the obscure dawn of the Christianity in the Direction, and thus massive, so nobly
simple, as to be beyond the ravages of case, and as the feeling
of convention.

The people who did this work are absolutely extinct. Many have supposed that in the population
of Central America there is still a remainder of the blood of the people who once dwelt there,
thus rendering the local inhabitants in some degree superior to the aboriginal Indians of that
country. Not so in Peru. It is only from the structures which we find and the conditions which
attend them that, any evidence is found that there ever was in Peru, any people superior to
the dull Indians of the mountains.

The traditions of the country speak of one Manco Capac appearing in the country at some indefinite
period, and that he and his family descendants were rulers for a long course of time, ruling
and controling[TN-6] the business and social life of the population of Peru. That blood had
been long extinct before the Spanish conquest.

Let us see for a moment whether anything remains to show what were the religious ideas of Manco
Capac, and those coming with and descended from him. We find abundant remains of structures
and carved columns in the almost desert regions of Atacama, in the high lands of what is now
Bolivia, between Peru and Chili, between twelve and thirteen thousand feet above the level
of the sea. These structures and carved monuments are largely gathered about the lake of Titicaca.
At Sillustani on a promontory extending into that lake, is constructed a stone circle as an
outdoor temple, standing more perfect to-day than Stonehenge or Stennes, or the structures
at Carnac in Bretagne. It is undoubtedly an outdoor temple for the worship of the sun. See
Squires’ Travels in the Lands of Incas, page 384, &c.

This, taken by itself, might not prove to a certainty that this outdoor temple was for the
worship of the sun, but at Tiahuanuco, in the same work, at page 288 to 292 inclusive, we have
the whole story told as plainly as it could be in a thousand printed volumes. Over the entrance
to a cemetery is a carved monolith, or single stone, on which is the following described carving:
Centrally over the gateway upon this monolith is a well carved figure of the sun, and upon
the right hand and the left hand and below, are sculptured some fifty figures of beings with
human bodies, and the wings of angels as imagined and represented in western Asia and in Europe.
Half of the angels have human bodies, angel wings and the heads of hawks. The Romans and the
Greeks held Mercury to be the god of eloquence and of wisdom.

Instead of furnishing him with the wings of the Asiatic angel, they clothed his head in a cap
close to the ears with wings extended from the ears, and with other wings extended from his ankles.

