About five feet, six inches tall, her slim figure was dwarfed by the huge bulk of the mate.
Her golden hair tumbled over her slim shoulders, almost to her waist, where a tasseled cord
held the clinging silk close to her. Her face, so white that it seemed like silver in that
gorgeous setting, was cold and defiant. There was no fear in those deep blue eyes under the
straight brows--only loathing and contempt.

Gore was not concerned with the personal feelings of his prize. He licked his wide, cruel lips,
seizing the girl's arms as in a vise. His other big, dirty hand slipped into the collar of
her robe.

       *       *       *       *       *

But the ripping of fabric did not come. Instead there was a sharp crack, and Gore, too surprised
even to move, stared at the little man who had hit him.

Again crack! The impact of fist on jaw. The blow was too weak to hurt this toughened veteran
of countless battles. But slowly a tide of dull red welled up over the bull neck, turning the
blue-black jowls to purple, and the walls echoed to Gore's roar of anger.

Again the fists of the smaller man smacked, this time drawing a trickle of blood from Gore's
mouth. Then the thick fingers closed on the brave passenger's wrist, and the tremendous muscles
swelled as, with a quick movement, Gore thrust his adversary back of him, grasping the other
wrist also. Then with slow, irresistible motion, he began drawing the thin arms forward, stretching
them, until the unfortunate man, drawn against the barrier of Gore's back, began to shriek
with pain.

Still Gore pulled, grinning evilly, and his victim's shoulder blades lifted under the tight
skin of his back as they took the strain. Shriek followed shriek, until the guard on the platform
glanced furtively out into the central well. There came a dry, tearing crackle as the bones
of the arms were drawn out of their sockets, and then the shrieks ceased as merciful unconsciousness
came. Gore tossed the limp body carelessly away.

"The beast!" Quirl gritted his teeth. But he stayed where he was, hiding his clenched fist,
for his was a specific assignment, and men of the I.F.P. know the meaning of the word "duty."

In a better humor again, Gore looked around.

"Come on, you little ginny!" he chortled. "I see you! Come to Moby, my beauty. You'll be queen
of the hold, and this scurvy litter will kiss your feet every day."

       *       *       *       *       *

He pursued her as she ran, bowling over or trampling on the fear-stricken prisoners as they
tried to scramble out of his way, men and women alike. But she made up in agility what she
lacked in strength, lifting up the hem of her robe so that her legs twinkled bare, ducking
under Gore's outstretched arms, or leaping over the fallen form of some stumbling, panic-stricken
unfortunate.

Only in her eyes was there a true picture of her terror. Gore's uncertain temper was changing
again, and in a few moments he was cursing foully, his little red-rimmed eyes glistening, as
he dashed after her with short, boar-like rushes.

Again she skimmed past where Quirl cowered in simulated fear, and the look she gave him struck
straight at the disguised officer's heart. So it was that when she slipped and fell to her
knees, and Gore charged in with a triumphant laugh, Quirl met him with no thought of anything,
no feeling but the joy of battle, the delight of a strong man when he meets a foe whom he hates.
And to that heady, feral emotion was added the unforgettable picture of a lovely face whose
obvious fear was somehow tempered by hope and confidence--in him!

As Gore lunged past, Quirl struck him. It was a short, sharp, well-timed jab that would have
knocked out an ordinary man. But Gore was by no means ordinary. The blow laid open his cheek
against the jawbone, but Gore scarcely slowed as he swerved. With a bellow of rage, he came
straight at Quirl, arms outstretched.

Philosophers have said that no matter how far the human race advances in the sciences, its
fundamental reactions will still be atavistic. Gore could have dispatched Quirl in a second
with his ray weapon, with perfect safety. Yet it is doubtful that the weapon even entered his
mind. As he came to the battle he was driven only by the primitive urge to fight with his hands,
to maim, to tear limb from limb like the great simians whom he resembled.

       *       *       *       *       *

To Quirl, coolly poised, the picture of Gore did not inspire terror. In the passengers, it
did. They saw a brutal giant, gorilla-like, and roaring like a beast, charging at a half-naked
youth apparently only half his size. It seemed that those tremendous arms must break him at
the first touch.

But the grasping hands slipped off the lithe body as if it were oiled, leaving only angry red
welts along Quirl's ribs. As the officer edged away he planted two blows on Gore's nose, which
began to bleed freely.

Again Gore rushed, and spat! spat! two seemingly light blows landed on his face, opening a
cut above his eye and another on his cheek bone. In a few seconds of battling he had become
a shocking sight, with his features almost obscured by welling blood.

Again Quirl measured him, and this time, instead of evading the grasp of the mate's eager arms,
he stepped right between them. Like a wraith he slipped into their embrace, and before they
could grasp him, standing so close that his chest almost touched his adversary's, he whipped
a right to Gore's jaw. It was the kind of punch that makes champions, a whiplike lash of the
forearm, with relaxed muscles that tighten at the moment of impact. A punch with "follow-through"
fit to knock out ninety-nine men out of a hundred.

But it did not knock out Gore, and Quirl had to pay dearly for his error. Gore was staggered,
but his mighty arms closed, hugging his slighter opponent to his hairy chest so that the breath
was choked out of him, and the metal studs on his harness gouged cruelly into Quirl's flesh.
His face was blue before he could work his arm loose, and begin to prod with stiffened fingers
at Gore's throat. Gore had to let go then, and Quirl broke away, boxed for a few moments until
he had recovered, and then proceeded to chop Gore's face beyond any semblance of humanity.

The mate had dropped his ray weapon, and now searched for it with blinded eyes. He flung his
riot club, and it flew wide of the mark. It was obvious that he was going to be beaten into
insensibility.

       *       *       *       *       *

The guard on the platform, seeing the trend of the battle, shouted hoarsely up the well, and
in a few minutes four men, hard-bitten, villainous looking fellows, tumbled down the ladder
and joyously joined in the fray. It was then only a matter of seconds before Quirl lay on the
floor-plates, battered and bleeding, but still feebly fighting, while Gore sat astride him,
seeking with vicious fingers for Quirl's eyes. At the same time his men were kicking at the
helpless man's body wherever they could reach him.

At the sight of this brutality the other prisoners, forgetting for the moment their own cowed
condition, set up such a bedlam of noise that the guard began to look furtively up the passage,
and to shout at the ruffians.

