Toward sunset we entered a beautiful green valley dotted with chalets, a cozy little domain
hidden away from the busy world in a cloistered nook among giant precipices topped with snowy
peaks that seemed to float like islands above the curling surf of the sea of vapor that severed
them from the lower world. Down from vague and vaporous heights, little ruffled zigzag milky
currents came crawling, and found their way to the verge of one of those tremendous overhanging
walls, whence they plunged, a shaft of silver, shivered to atoms in mid-descent and turned
to an air puff of luminous dust. Here and there, in grooved depressions among the snowy desolations
of the upper altitudes, one glimpsed the extremity of a glacier, with its sea-green and honeycombed
battlements of ice.

Up the valley, under a dizzy precipice, nestled the village of Kandersteg, our halting-place
for the night. We were soon there, and housed in the hotel. But the waning day had such an
inviting influence that we did not remain housed many moments, but struck out and followed
a roaring torrent of ice-water up to its far source in a sort of little grass-carpeted parlor,
walled in all around by vast precipices and overlooked by clustering summits of ice. This was
the snuggest little croquet-ground imaginable; it was perfectly level, and not more than a
mile long by half a mile wide. The walls around it were so gigantic, and everything about it
was on so mighty a scale that it was belittled, by contrast, to what I have likened it to--a
cozy and carpeted parlor. It was so high above the Kandersteg valley that there was nothing
between it and the snowy-peaks. I had never been in such intimate relations with the high altitudes
before; the snow-peaks had always been remote and unapproachable grandeurs, hitherto, but now
we were hob-a-nob--if one may use such a seemingly irreverent expression about creations so
august as these.

We could see the streams which fed the torrent we had followed issuing from under the greenish
ramparts of glaciers; but two or three of these, instead of flowing over the precipices, sank
down into the rock and sprang in big jets out of holes in the mid-face of the walls.

The green nook which I have been describing is called the Gasternthal. The glacier streams
gather and flow through it in a broad and rushing brook to a narrow cleft between lofty precipices;
here the rushing brook becomes a mad torrent and goes booming and thundering down toward Kandersteg,
lashing and thrashing its way over and among monster boulders, and hurling chance roots and
logs about like straws. There was no lack of cascades along this route. The path by the side
of the torrent was so narrow that one had to look sharp, when he heard a cow-bell, and hunt
for a place that was wide enough to accommodate a cow and a Christian side by side, and such
places were not always to be had at an instant's notice. The cows wear church-bells, and that
is a good idea in the cows, for where that torrent is, you couldn't hear an ordinary cow-bell
any further than you could hear the ticking of a watch.

I needed exercise, so I employed my agent in setting stranded logs and dead trees adrift, and
I sat on a boulder and watched them go whirling and leaping head over heels down the boiling
torrent. It was a wonderfully exhilarating spectacle. When I had had enough exercise, I made
the agent take some, by running a race with one of those logs. I made a trifle by betting on
the log.

After dinner we had a walk up and down the Kandersteg valley, in the soft gloaming, with the
spectacle of the dying lights of day playing about the crests and pinnacles of the still and
solemn upper realm for contrast, and text for talk. There were no sounds but the dulled complaining
of the torrent and the occasional tinkling of a distant bell. The spirit of the place was a
sense of deep, pervading peace; one might dream his life tranquilly away there, and not miss
it or mind it when it was gone.

The summer departed with the sun, and winter came with the stars. It grew to be a bitter night
in that little hotel, backed up against a precipice that had no visible top to it, but we kept
warm, and woke in time in the morning to find that everybody else had left for Gemmi three
hours before--so our little plan of helping that German family (principally the old man) over
the pass, was a blocked generosity.

CHAPTER XXXIV

[The World's Highest Pig Farm]

We hired the only guide left, to lead us on our way. He was over seventy, but he could have
given me nine-tenths of his strength and still had all his age entitled him to. He shouldered
our satchels, overcoats, and alpenstocks, and we set out up the steep path. It was hot work.
The old man soon begged us to hand over our coats and waistcoats to him to carry, too, and
we did it; one could not refuse so little a thing to a poor old man like that; he should have
had them if he had been a hundred and fifty.

When we began that ascent, we could see a microscopic chalet perched away up against heaven
on what seemed to be the highest mountain near us. It was on our right, across the narrow head
of the valley. But when we got up abreast it on its own level, mountains were towering high
above on every hand, and we saw that its altitude was just about that of the little Gasternthal
which we had visited the evening before. Still it seemed a long way up in the air, in that
waste and lonely wilderness of rocks. It had an unfenced grass-plot in front of it which seemed
about as big as a billiard-table, and this grass-plot slanted so sharply downward, and was
so brief, and ended so exceedingly soon at the verge of the absolute precipice, that it was
a shuddery thing to think of a person's venturing to trust his foot on an incline so situated
at all. Suppose a man stepped on an orange peel in that yard; there would be nothing for him
to seize; nothing could keep him from rolling; five revolutions would bring him to the edge,
and over he would go.

What a frightful distance he would fall!--for there are very few birds that fly as high as
his starting-point. He would strike and bounce, two or three times, on his way down, but this
would be no advantage to him. I would as soon take an airing on the slant of a rainbow as in
such a front yard. I would rather, in fact, for the distance down would be about the same,
and it is pleasanter to slide than to bounce. I could not see how the peasants got up to that
chalet--the region seemed too steep for anything but a balloon.

As we strolled on, climbing up higher and higher, we were continually bringing neighboring
peaks into view and lofty prominence which had been hidden behind lower peaks before; so by
and by, while standing before a group of these giants, we looked around for the chalet again;
there it was, away down below us, apparently on an inconspicuous ridge in the valley! It was
as far below us, now, as it had been above us when we were beginning the ascent.

After a while the path led us along a railed precipice, and we looked over--far beneath us
was the snug parlor again, the little Gasternthal, with its water jets spouting from the face
of its rock walls. We could have dropped a stone into it. We had been finding the top of the
world all along--and always finding a still higher top stealing into view in a disappointing
way just ahead; when we looked down into the Gasternthal we felt pretty sure that we had reached
the genuine top at last, but it was not so; there were much higher altitudes to be scaled yet.
We were still in the pleasant shade of forest trees, we were still in a region which was cushioned
with beautiful mosses and aglow with the many-tinted luster of innumerable wild flowers.

We found, indeed, more interest in the wild flowers than in anything else. We gathered a specimen
or two of every kind which we were unacquainted with; so we had sumptuous bouquets. But one
of the chief interests lay in chasing the seasons of the year up the mountain, and determining
them by the presence of flowers and berries which we were acquainted with. For instance, it
was the end of August at the level of the sea; in the Kandersteg valley at the base of the
pass, we found flowers which would not be due at the sea-level for two or three weeks; higher
up, we entered October, and gathered fringed gentians. I made no notes, and have forgotten
the details, but the construction of the floral calendar was very entertaining while it lasted.

In the high regions we found rich store of the splendid red flower called the Alpine rose,
but we did not find any examples of the ugly Swiss favorite called Edelweiss. Its name seems
to indicate that it is a noble flower and that it is white. It may be noble enough, but it
is not attractive, and it is not white. The fuzzy blossom is the color of bad cigar ashes,
and appears to be made of a cheap quality of gray plush. It has a noble and distant way of
confining itself to the high altitudes, but that is probably on account of its looks; it apparently
has no monopoly of those upper altitudes, however, for they are sometimes intruded upon by
some of the loveliest of the valley families of wild flowers. Everybody in the Alps wears a
sprig of Edelweiss in his hat. It is the native's pet, and also the tourist's.

All the morning, as we loafed along, having a good time, other pedestrians went staving by
us with vigorous strides, and with the intent and determined look of men who were walking for
a wager. These wore loose knee-breeches, long yarn stockings, and hobnailed high-laced walking-shoes.
They were gentlemen who would go home to England or Germany and tell how many miles they had
beaten the guide-book every day. But I doubted if they ever had much real fun, outside of the
mere magnificent exhilaration of the tramp through the green valleys and the breezy heights;
for they were almost always alone, and even the finest scenery loses incalculably when there
is no one to enjoy it with.

All the morning an endless double procession of mule-mounted tourists filed past us along the
narrow path--the one procession going, the other coming. We had taken a good deal of trouble
to teach ourselves the kindly German custom of saluting all strangers with doffed hat, and
we resolutely clung to it, that morning, although it kept us bareheaded most of the time and
was not always responded to. Still we found an interest in the thing, because we naturally
liked to know who were English and Americans among the passers-by. All continental natives
responded of course; so did some of the English and Americans, but, as a general thing, these
two races gave no sign. Whenever a man or a woman showed us cold neglect, we spoke up confidently
in our own tongue and asked for such information as we happened to need, and we always got
a reply in the same language. The English and American folk are not less kindly than other
races, they are only more reserved, and that comes of habit and education. In one dreary, rocky
waste, away above the line of vegetation, we met a procession of twenty-five mounted young
men, all from America. We got answering bows enough from these, of course, for they were of
an age to learn to do in Rome as Rome does, without much effort.

At one extremity of this patch of desolation, overhung by bare and forbidding crags which husbanded
drifts of everlasting snow in their shaded cavities, was a small stretch of thin and discouraged
grass, and a man and a family of pigs were actually living here in some shanties. Consequently
this place could be really reckoned as "property"; it had a money value, and was doubtless
taxed. I think it must have marked the limit of real estate in this world. It would be hard
to set a money value upon any piece of earth that lies between that spot and the empty realm
of space. That man may claim the distinction of owning the end of the world, for if there is
any definite end to the world he has certainly found it.

From here forward we moved through a storm-swept and smileless desolation. All about us rose
gigantic masses, crags, and ramparts of bare and dreary rock, with not a vestige or semblance
of plant or tree or flower anywhere, or glimpse of any creature that had life. The frost and
the tempests of unnumbered ages had battered and hacked at these cliffs, with a deathless energy,
destroying them piecemeal; so all the region about their bases was a tumbled chaos of great
fragments which had been split off and hurled to the ground. Soiled and aged banks of snow
lay close about our path. The ghastly desolation of the place was as tremendously complete
as if Doré had furnished the working-plans for it. But every now and then, through the stern
gateways around us we caught a view of some neighboring majestic dome, sheathed with glittering
ice, and displaying its white purity at an elevation compared to which ours was groveling and
plebeian, and this spectacle always chained one's interest and admiration at once, and made
him forget there was anything ugly in the world.

I have just said that there was nothing but death and desolation in these hideous places, but
I forgot. In the most forlorn and arid and dismal one of all, where the racked and splintered
debris was thickest, where the ancient patches of snow lay against the very path, where the
winds blew bitterest and the general aspect was mournfulest and dreariest, and furthest from
any suggestion of cheer or hope, I found a solitary wee forget-me-not flourishing away, not
a droop about it anywhere, but holding its bright blue star up with the prettiest and gallantest
air in the world, the only happy spirit, the only smiling thing, in all that grisly desert.
She seemed to say, "Cheer up!--as long as we are here, let us make the best of it." I judged
she had earned a right to a more hospitable place; so I plucked her up and sent her to America
to a friend who would respect her for the fight she had made, all by her small self, to make
a whole vast despondent Alpine desolation stop breaking its heart over the unalterable, and
hold up its head and look at the bright side of things for once.

We stopped for a nooning at a strongly built little inn called the Schwarenbach. It sits in
a lonely spot among the peaks, where it is swept by the trailing fringes of the cloud-rack,
and is rained on, and snowed on, and pelted and persecuted by the storms, nearly every day
of its life. It was the only habitation in the whole Gemmi Pass.

Close at hand, now, was a chance for a blood-curdling Alpine adventure. Close at hand was the
snowy mass of the Great Altels cooling its topknot in the sky and daring us to an ascent. I
was fired with the idea, and immediately made up my mind to procure the necessary guides, ropes,
etc., and undertake it. I instructed Harris to go to the landlord of the inn and set him about
our preparations. Meantime, I went diligently to work to read up and find out what this much-talked-of
mountain-climbing was like, and how one should go about it--for in these matters I was ignorant.
I opened Mr. Hinchliff's SUMMER MONTHS AMONG THE ALPS (published 1857), and selected his account
of his ascent of Monte Rosa.

It began:

"It is very difficult to free the mind from excitement on the evening before a grand expedition--"

