 The only time the public prayers bored the child was on the Sabbath,
when the minister read the Portion of the Week; the Five Books of Moses being read through
once a year, week by week, in a strange sing-song with only occasional flights of melody. The
chant was determined by curious signs printed under the words, and the signs that made nice
music were rather rare, and the nicest sign of all, which spun out the word with endless turns
and trills, like the carol of a bird, occurred only a few times in the whole Pentateuch. The
child, as he listened to the interminable incantation, thought he would have sprinkled the
Code with bird-songs, and made the Scroll of the Law warble. But he knew this could not be.
For the Scroll was stern and severe and dignified, like the high members of the congregation
who bore it aloft, or furled it, and adjusted its wrapper and its tinkling silver bells. Even
the soberest musical signs were not marked on it, nay, it was bare of punctuation, and even
of vowels. Only the Hebrew consonants were to be seen on the sacred parchment, and they were
written, not printed, for the printing-press is not like the reverent hand of the scribe. The
child thought it was a marvellous feat to read it, much less know precisely how to chant it.
Seven men--first a man of the tribe of Aaron the High Priest, then a Levite, and then five
ordinary Israelites--were called up to the platform to stand by while the Scroll was being
intoned, and their arrivals and departures broke the monotony of the recitative. After the
Law came the Prophets, which revived the child's interest, for they had another and a quainter
melody, in the minor mode, full of half tones and delicious sadness that ended in a peal of
exultation. For the Prophets, though they thundered against the iniquities of Israel, and preached
"Woe, woe," also foretold comfort when the period of captivity and contempt should be over,
and the Messiah would come and gather His people from the four corners of the earth, and the
Temple should be rebuilt in Jerusalem, and all the nations would worship the God who had given
His law to the Jews on Mount Sinai. In the meantime, only Israel was bound to obey it in every
letter, because only the Jews--born or unborn--had agreed to do so amid the thunders and lightnings
of Sinai. Even the child's unborn soul had been present and accepted the yoke of the Torah.
He often tried to recall the episode, but although he could picture the scene quite well, and
see the souls curling over the mountains like white clouds, he could not remember being among
them. No doubt he had forgotten it, with his other pre-natal experiences--like the two Angels
who had taught him Torah and shown him Paradise of a morning and Hell every evening--when at
the moment of his birth the Angel's finger had struck him on the upper lip and sent him into
the world crying at the pain, and with that dent under the nostrils which, in every human face,
is the seal of oblivion of the celestial spheres. But on the anniversary of the great Day of
the Decalogue--on the Feast of Pentecost--the synagogue was dressed with flowers. Flowers were
not easy to get in Venice--that city of stones and the sea--yet every synagogue (and there
were seven of them in that narrow Ghetto, some old and beautiful, some poor and humble) had
its pillars or its balconies twined with roses, narcissi, lilies, and pansies. Prettier still
were the customs of "Tabernacles," when the wooden booths were erected in the square or the
courtyards of the synagogues in commemoration of the days when the Children of Israel lived
in tents in the wilderness. The child's father, being particularly pious, had a booth all to
himself, thatched with green boughs, and hung with fruit, and furnished with chairs and a table
at which the child sat, with the blue sky playing peep-bo through the leaves, and the white
table-cloth astir with quivering shadows and glinting sunbeams. And towards the last days of
the Festival he began to eat away the roof, consuming the dangling apples and oranges, and
the tempting grapes. And throughout this beautiful Festival the synagogue rustled with palm
branches, tied with boughs of willows of the brook and branches of other pleasant trees--as
commanded in Leviticus--which the men waved and shook, pointing them east and west and north
and south, and then heavenwards, and smelling also of citron kept in boxes lined with white
wool. As one could not breakfast before blessing the branches and the citron, a man carried
them round to such of the women-folk as household duties kept at home--and indeed, home was
a woman's first place, and to light the Sabbath lamp a woman's holiest duty, and even at synagogue
she sat in a grated gallery away from the men downstairs. On the seventh day of Tabernacles
the child had a little bundle of leafy boughs styled "Hosannas," which he whipped on the synagogue
bench, his sins falling away with the leaves that flew to the ground as he cried, "Hosanna,
save us now!" All through the night his father prayed in the synagogue, but the child went
home to bed, after a gallant struggle with his closing eyelids, hoping not to see his headless
shadow on the stones, for that was a sign of death. But the ninth day of Tabernacles was the
best, "The Rejoicing of the Law," when the fifty-second portion of the Pentateuch was finished
and the first portion begun immediately all over again, to show that the "rejoicing" was not
because the congregation was glad to be done with it. The man called up to the last portion
was termed "The Bridegroom of the Law," and to the first portion "The Bridegroom of the Beginning,"
and they made a wedding-feast to which everybody was invited. The boys scrambled for sweets
on the synagogue floor. The Scrolls of the Law were carried round and round seven times, and
the boys were in the procession with flags and wax tapers in candlesticks of hollow carrots,
joining lustily in the poem with its alternative refrain of "Save us, we pray Thee," "Prosper
us, we pray Thee." So gay was the minister that he could scarcely refrain from dancing, and
certainly his voice danced as it sang. There was no other time so gay, except it was Purim--the
feast to celebrate Queen Esther's redemption of her people from the wicked Haman--when everybody
sent presents to everybody else, and the men wore comic masks or dressed up as women and performed
little plays. The child went about with a great false nose, and when the name of "Haman" came
up in the reading of the Book of Esther, which was intoned in a refreshingly new way, he tapped
vengefully with a little hammer or turned the handle of a little toy that made a grinding noise.
The other feast in celebration of a Jewish redemption--Chanukah, or Dedication--was almost
as impressive, for in memory of the miracle of the oil that kept the perpetual light burning
in the Temple when Judas Maccabæus reconquered it from the Greek gods, the Ghetto lighted candles,
one on the first night and two on the second, and so on till there were eight burning in a
row, to say nothing of the candle that kindled the others and was called "The Beadle," and
the child sang hymns of praise to the Rock of Salvation as he watched the serried flames. And
so, in this inner world of dreams the child lived and grew, his vision turned back towards
ancient Palestine and forwards towards some vague Restoration, his days engirdled with prayer
and ceremony, his very games of ball or nuts sanctified by Sandalphon, the boy-angel, to whom
he prayed: "O Sandalphon, Lord of the Forest, protect us from pain."

II

