Two years after my father's departure, my mother, with her two children, my sister and myself,
attempted to make her escape. After traveling two days we reached Illinois. We slept in the
woods at night. I believe my mother had food to supply us but fasted herself. But the advertisement
had reached there before us, and loafers were already in search of us, and as soon as we were
discovered on the brink of the river one of the spies made enquiries respecting her suspicious
appearance. She was aware that she was arrested, consequently she gave a true account of herself--that
she was in search of her husband. We were then destitute of any articles of clothing excepting
our wearing apparel. Mother had become so weary that she was compelled to leave our package
of clothing on the way. We were taken back to St. Louis and committed to prison and remained
there one week, after which they put us in Linch's trader's yard, where we remained about four
weeks. We were then sold to William Lewis. Mr. Lewis was a very severe master, and inflicted
such punishment upon us as he thought proper. However, I only remember one severe contest Mr.
Lewis had with my mother. For some slight offence Mrs. Lewis became offended and was tartly
and loudly reprimanding her, when Mr. L. came in and rashly felled her to the floor with his
fist. But his wife was constantly pulling our ears, snapping us with her thimble, rapping us
on the head and sides of it. It appeared impossible to please her. When we first went to Mr.
L.'s they had a cowhide which she used to inflict on a little slave girl she previously owned,
nearly every night. This was done to learn the little girl to wake early to wait on her children.
But my mother was a cook, as I before stated, and was in the habit of roasting meats and toasting
bread. As they stinted us for food my mother roasted the cowhide. It was rather poor picking,
but it was the last cowhide my mother ever had an opportunity to cook while we remained in
his family. Mr. L. soon moved about six miles from the city, and entered in partnership with
his brother-in-law. The servants were then divided and distributed in both families. It unfortunately
fell to my lot to live with Mrs. Larry, my mistress' sister, which rendered my condition worse
than the first. My master even disapproved of my ill treatment and took me to another place;
the place my mother resided before my father's escape. After a short time Mr. Lewis again returned
to the city. My mother still remained as cook in his family. After six years' absence of my
father my mother married again a man by the name of George Brown, and lived with her second
husband about four years, and had two children, when he was sold for requesting a different
kind and enough food. His master considered it a great insult, and declared he would sell him.
But previous to this insult, as he called it, my step-father was foreman in Mr. L.'s tobacco
factory. He was trusty and of good moral habits, and was calculated to bring the highest price
in the human market; therefore the excuse to sell him for the above offence was only a plot.
The morning this offence occurred, Mr. L. bid my father to remain in the kitchen till he had
taken his breakfast. After pulling his ears and slapping his face bade him come to the factory;
but instead of going to the factory he went to Canada. Thus my poor mother was again left alone
with two more children added to her misery and sorrow to toil on her weary pilgrimage.

    Racked with agony and pain she was left alone again,
    With a purpose nought could move
    And the zeal of woman's love,
    Down she knelt in agony
    To ask the Lord to clear the way.

    True she said O gracious Lord,
    True and faithful is thy word;
    But the humblest, poorest, may
    Eat the crumbs they cast away.

    Though nine long years had passed
    Without one glimmering light of day
    She never did forget to pray
    And has not yet though whips and chains are cast away.

    For thus said the blessed Lord,
    I will verify my word;
    By the faith that has not failed,
    Thou hast asked and shall prevail.

We remained but a short time at the same residence when Mr. Lewis moved again to the country.
Soon after, my little brother was taken sick in consequence of being confined in a box in which
my mother was obliged to keep him. If permitted to creep around the floor her mistress thought
it would take too much time to attend to him. He was two years old and never walked. His limbs
were perfectly paralyzed for want of exercise. We now saw him gradually failing, but was not
allowed to render him due attention. Even the morning he died she was compelled to attend to
her usual work. She watched over him for three months by night and attended to her domestic
affairs by day. The night previous to his death we were aware he could not survive through
the approaching day, but it made no impression on my mistress until she came into the kitchen
and saw his life fast ebbing away, then she put on a sad countenance for fear of being exposed,
and told my mother to take the child to her room, where he only lived one hour. When she found
he was dead she ordered grave clothes to be brought and gave my mother time to bury him. O
that morning, that solemn morning. It appears to me that when that little spirit departed as
though all heaven rejoiced and angels veiled their faces.

    My mother too in concert joined,--
    Her mingled praise with them combined.
    Her little saint had gone to God
    Who saved him with his precious blood.

Who said "Suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not."

THE SOLDIERS, AND OUR TREATMENT DURING THE WAR

Soon after the war commenced the rebel soldiers encamped near Mr. Lewis' residence, and remained
there one week. They were then ordered by General Lyons to surrender, but they refused. There
were seven thousand Union and seven hundred rebel soldiers. The Union soldiers surrounded the
camp and took them and exhibited them through the city and then confined them in prison. I
told my mistress that the Union soldiers were coming to take the camp. She replied that it
was false, that it was General Kelly coming to re-enforce Gen. Frost. In a few moments the
alarm was heard. I told Mrs. L. the Unionists had fired upon the rebels. She replied it was
only the salute of Gen. Kelly. At night her husband came home with the news that Camp Jackson
was taken and all the soldiers prisoners. Mrs. Lewis asked how the Union soldiers could take
seven hundred men when they only numbered the same. Mr. L. replied they had seven thousand.
She was much astonished, and cast her eye around to us for fear we might hear her. Her suspicion
was correct; there was not a word passed that escaped our listening ears. My mother and myself
could read enough to make out the news in the papers. The Union soldiers took much delight
in tossing a paper over the fence to us. It aggravated my mistress very much. My mother used
to sit up nights and read to keep posted about the war. In a few days my mistress came down
to the kitchen again with another bitter complaint that it was a sad affair that the Unionists
had taken their delicate citizens who had enlisted and made prisoners of them--that they were
babes. My mother reminded her of taking Fort Sumpter and Major Anderson and serving them the
same and that turn about was fair play. She then hastened to her room with the speed of a deer,
nearly unhinging every door in her flight, replying as she went that the Niggers and Yankees
were seeking to take the country. One day, after she had visited the kitchen to superintend
some domestic affairs, as she pretended, she became very angry without a word being passed,
and said--"I think it has come to a pretty pass, that old Lincoln, with his long legs, an old
rail splitter, wishes to put the Niggers on an equality with the whites; that her children
should never be on an equal footing with a Nigger. She had rather see them dead." As my mother
made no reply to her remarks, she stopped talking, and commenced venting her spite on my companion
servant. On one occasion Mr. Lewis searched my mother's room and found a picture of President
Lincoln, cut from a newspaper, hanging in her room. He asked her what she was doing with old
Lincoln's picture. She replied it was there because she liked it. He then knocked her down
three times, and sent her to the trader's yard for a month as punishment. My mistress indulged
some hopes till the victory of New Orleans, when she heard the famous Union song sang to the
tune of Yankee Doodle:

    The rebels swore that New Orleans never should be taken,
    But if the Yankees came so near they should not save their bacon.
    That's the way they blustered when they thought they were so handy,
    But Farragut steamed up one day and gave them Doodle Dandy.

    Ben Butler then was ordered down to regulate the city;
    He made the rebels walk a chalk, and was not that a pity?
    That's the way to serve them out--that's the way to treat them,
    They must not go and put on airs after we have beat them.

    He made the rebel banks shell out and pay the loyal people,
    He made them keep the city clean from pig's sty to church steeple.
    That's the way Columbia speaks, let all men believe her;
    That's the way Columbia speaks instead of yellow fever.

    He sent the saucy women up and made them treat us well
    He helped the poor and snubbed the rich; they thought he was the devil,
    Bully for Ben. Butler, then, they thought he was so handy;
    Bully for Ben Butler then,--Yankee Doodle Dandy.

The days of sadness for mistress were days of joy for us. We shouted and laughed to the top
of our voices. My mistress was more enraged than ever--nothing pleased her. One evening, after
I had attended to my usual duties, and I supposed all was complete, she, in a terrible range,
declared I should be punished that night. I did not know the cause, neither did she. She went
immediately and selected a switch. She placed it in the corner of the room to await the return
of her husband at night for him to whip me. As I was not pleased with the idea of a whipping
I bent the switch in the shape of W, which was the first letter of his name, and after I had
attended to the dining room my fellow servant and myself walked away and stopped with an aunt
of mine during the night. In the morning we made our way to the Arsenal, but could gain no
admission. While we were wandering about seeking protection, the girl's father overtook us
and persuaded us to return home. We finally complied. All was quiet. Not a word was spoken
respecting our sudden departure. All went on as usual. I was permitted to attend to my work
without interruption until three weeks after. One morning I entered Mrs. Lewis' room, and she
was in a room adjoining, complaining of something I had neglected. Mr. L. then enquired if
I had done my work. I told him I had. She then flew into a rage and told him I was saucy, and
to strike me, and he immediately gave me a severe blow with a stick of wood, which inflicted
a deep wound upon my head. The blood ran over my clothing, which gave me a frightful appearance.
Mr. Lewis then ordered me to change my clothing immediately. As I did not obey he became more
enraged, and pulled me into another room and threw me on the floor, placed his knee on my stomach,
slapped me on the face and beat me with his fist, and would have punished me more had not my
mother interfered. He then told her to go away or he would compel her to, but she remained
until he left me. I struggled mightily, and stood him a good test for a while, but he was fast
conquering me when my mother came. He was aware my mother could usually defend herself against
one man, and both of us would overpower him, so after giving his wife strict orders to take
me up stairs and keep me there, he took his carriage and drove away. But she forgot it, as
usual. She was highly gratified with my appropriate treatment, as she called it, and retired
to her room, leaving me to myself. I then went to my mother and told her I was going away.
She bid me go, and added "May the Lord help you." I started for the Arsenal again and succeeded
in gaining admittance and seeing the Adjutant. He ordered me to go to another tent, where there
was a woman in similar circumstances, cooking. When the General found I was there he sent me
to the boarding house. I remained there three weeks, and when I went I wore the same stained
clothing as when I was so severely punished, which has left a mark on my head which will ever
remind me of my treatment while in slavery. Thanks be to God, though tortured by wrong and
goaded by oppression, the hearts that would madden with misery have broken the iron yoke.

MR. LEWIS CALLS AT THE BOARDING HOUSE

At the expiration of three weeks Mr. Lewis called at my boarding house, accompanied by his
brother-in-law, and enquired for me, and the General informed him where I was. He then told
me my mother was very anxious for me to come home, and I returned. The General had ordered
Mr. Lewis to call at headquarters, when he told him if he had treated me right I would not
have been compelled to seek protection of him; that my first appearance was sufficient proof
of his cruelty. Mr. L. promised to take me home and treat me kindly. Instead of fulfilling
his promise he carried me to the trader's yard, where, to my great surprise, I found my mother.
She had been there during my absence, where she was kept for fear she would find me and take
my brother and sister and make her escape. There was so much excitement at that time, (1861),
by the Union soldiers rendering the fugitives shelter and protection, he was aware that if
she applied to them, as he did not fulfill his promise in my case, he would stand a poor chance.
If my mother made application to them for protection they would learn that he did not return
me home, and immediately detect the intrigue. After I was safely secured in the trader's yard,
Mr. L. took my mother home. I remained in the yard three months. Near the termination of the
time of my confinement I was passing by the office when the cook of the Arsenal saw and recognized
me and informed the General that Mr. L. had disobeyed his orders, and had put me in the trader's
yard instead of taking me home. The General immediately arrested Mr. L. and gave him one hundred
lashes with the cowhide, so that they might identify him by a scarred back, as well as his
slaves. My mother had the pleasure of washing his stained clothes, otherwise it would not have
been known. My master was compelled to pay three thousand dollars and let me out. He then put
me to service, where I remained seven months, after which he came in great haste and took me
into the city and put me into the trader's yard again. After he received the punishment he
treated my mother and the children worse than ever, which caused her to take her children and
secrete themselves in the city, and would have remained undetected had it not been for a traitor
who pledged himself to keep the secret. But King Whiskey fired up his brain one evening, and
out popped the secret. My mother and sister were consequently taken and committed to the trader's
yard. My little brother was then eight years of age, my sister sixteen, and myself eighteen.
We remained there two weeks, when a rough looking man, called Capt. Tirrell, came to the yard
and enquired for our family. After he had examined us he remarked that we were a fine looking
family, and bid us retire. In about two hours he returned, at the edge of the evening, with
a covered wagon, and took my mother and brother and sister and left me. My mother refused to
go without me, and told him she would raise an alarm. He advised her to remain as quiet as
possible. At length she was compelled to go. When she entered the wagon there was a man standing
behind with his hands on each side of the wagon to prevent her from making her escape. She
sprang to her feet and gave this man a desperate blow, and leaping to the ground she made an
alarm. The watchmen came to her assistance immediately, and there was quite a number of Union
policemen guarding the city at that time, who rendered her due justice as far as possible.
This was before the emancipation proclamation was issued. After she leaped from the wagon they
drove on, taking her children to the boat. The police questioned my mother. She told them that
Capt. Tirrell had put her children on board the boat, and was going to take them to Memphis
and sell them into hard slavery. They accompanied her to the boat, and arrived just as they
were casting off. The police ordered them to stop and immediately deliver up the children,
who had been secreted in the Captain's private apartment. They were brought forth and returned.
Slave speculation was forbidden in St. Louis at that time. The Union soldiers had possession
of the city, but their power was limited to the suppression of the selling of slaves to got
out of the city. Considerable smuggling was done, however, by pretending Unionism, which was
the case with our family.

RELEASED FROM THE TRADER'S YARD AND TAKEN TO HER NEW MASTER

Immediately after dinner my mother called for me to accompany her to our new home, the residence
of the Captain, together with my brother and sister. We fared very well while we were there.
Mrs. Tirrell was insane, and my mother had charge of the house. We remained there four months.
The Captain came home only once a week and he never troubled us for fear we might desert him.
His intention was to smuggle us away before the State became free. That was the understanding
when he bought us of Mr. Lewis, as it was not much of an object to purchase slaves while the
proclamation was pending, and they likely to lose all their property; but they would, for a
trifle purchase a whole family of four or five persons to send out of the State. Kentucky paid
as much, or more than ever, for slaves. As they pretended to take no part in the rebellion
they supposed they would be allowed to keep them without interference. Consequently the Captain's
intention was to keep as quiet as possible till the excitement concerning us was over, and
he could get us off without detection. Mr. Lewis would rather have disposed of us for nothing
than have seen us free. He hated my mother in consequence of her desire for freedom, and her
endeavors to teach her children the right way as far as her ability would allow. He also held
a charge against her for reading the papers and understanding political affairs. When he found
he was to lose his slaves he could not bear the idea of her being free. He thought it too hard,
as she had raised so many tempests for him, to see her free and under her own control. He had
tantalized her in every possible way to humiliate and annoy her; yet while he could demand
her services he appreciated and placed perfect confidence in mother and family. None but a
fiendish slaveholder could have rended an honest Christian heart in such a manner as this.

    Though it was her sad and weary lot to toil in slavery
    But one thing cheered her weary soul
    When almost in despair
    That she could gain a sure relief in attitude of prayer

CAPT. TIRRELL REMOVES THE FAMILY--ANOTHER STRATEGY

