In the smallest of the three large mounds of this group were found stone graves of precisely
the type attributable, when found south of the Ohio, to the Shawnees. They were not in a situation
where they could be ascribed to intrusive burials, but in the bottom layer of a comparatively
large mound with a thick and undisturbed layer of hard-packed clay above them. It is also worthy
of notice that the locality is intermediate between the principal seat of the Shawnees in the
Cumberland Valley, and their extreme eastern outposts in northeastern Georgia, where both tradition
and stone graves indicate their settlement. The tradition regarding this settlement has been
given elsewhere. [Footnote: Am. Antiq, vol. 7, 1885, p. 133]

In these graves were found the remarkable figured copper plates and certain engraved shells,
of which mention has been made by Mr. W. H. Holmes [Footnote: Science, vol. 3, 1884, pp. 436-438.]
and by myself [Footnote: Ibid., pp. 779-785.] in Science. It is a singular corroboration of
the theory here advanced that the only other similar copper plates were found at Lebanon, Tenn.,
by Prof. F. W. Putnam; in a stone grave in a mound at Mill Creek, southern Illinois, by Mr.
Earle; in a stone grave in Jackson County, Ill., by Mr. Thing; in a mound of Madison County,
Ill., by Mr. H. R. Howland; and in a small mound at Peoria, Ill., by Maj. J. W. Powell. All,
except the specimens found by Professor Putnam and Mr. Howland, were secured by the Bureau
of Ethnology, and are now in the National Museum.

There can be but little doubt that the specimens obtained from simple stone graves by Professor
Putnam and Mr. Thing are to be attributed to Indian burials, but surely not to Indian manufacture.

We have, therefore, two unbroken chains connecting the Indians of historic times with the "veritable
mound builders," and the facts which form the links of these chains throw some additional light
on the history of that mysterious people, the Shawnees.

It may be stated here that in the report relating to the claim of the Wabash Land Company [Footnote:
American State Papers, Land Affairs, Appendix, p. 20.] is a statement giving a list of articles
furnished the Indians, among which we notice nine ear wheels. These we suppose to be the same
as the spool shaped ear ornaments found in stone graves and elsewhere.

The engraved shells also form a link which not only connects the mound-builders with historic
times but corroborates the view advanced in regard to the Shawnees, and indicates also that
the Cherokees were mound-builders. But before introducing this we will give the reasons for
believing that the mounds of eastern Tennessee and western North Carolina are due to the last-named
tribe.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CHEROKEES AS MOUND BUILDERS.

As the evidence on this point has to a large extent been presented in my article on "Burial
Mounds of the Northern Section," [Footnote: Fifth Ann. Rept. Bur Ethnol] also in articles published
in the Magazine of American History [Footnote: May, 1884, pp. 396- 407] and in the American
Naturalist, [Footnote: Vol. 18, 1884, pp. 232-240] it will be necessary here only to introduce
a few additional items.

The iron implements which are alluded to in the above mentioned articles also in Science, [Footnote:
Science, vol. 3, 1884, pp. 308-310] as found in a North Carolina mound, and which analysis
shows were not meteoric, furnish conclusive evidence that the tumulus was built after the Europeans
had reached America; and as it is shown in the same article that the Cherokees must have occupied
the region from the time of its discovery up to its settlement by the whites it is more than
probable they were the builders. A figure of one of the pieces is introduced here.

Additional and perhaps still stronger evidence, if stronger be needed, that the people of this
tribe were the authors of most of the ancient works in western North Carolina and eastern Tennessee
is to be found in certain discoveries made by the Bureau assistants in Monroe County, Tenn.

A careful exploration of the valley of the Little Tennessee River, from the point where it
leaves the mountains to its confluence with the Holston, was made, and the various mound groups
were located and surveyed. These were found to correspond down as far as the position of Fort
London and even to the island below with the arrangement of the Cherokee "over-hill towns"
as given by Timberlake in his map of the Cherokee country called "Over the Hills," [Footnote:
Memoirs, 1765] a group for each town, and in the only available spots the valley for this distance
affords. As these mounds when explored yielded precisely the kind of ornaments and implements
used by the Cherokees, it is reasonable to believe they built them.

Ramsey also gives a map, [Footnote: Annals of Tennessee, p. 376] but his list evidently refers
to a date corresponding with the close of their occupancy of this section. Bartram [Footnote:
Travels, pp. 373.374.] gives a more complete list applying to an earlier date. This evidently
includes some on the Holston (his "Cherokee") River and some on the Tellico plains. This corresponds
precisely with the result of the explorations by the Bureau as will be seen when the report
is published. Some three or four groups were discovered in the region of Tellico plains, and
five or six on the Little Tennessee below Fort London and on the Holston near the junction,
one large mound and a group being on the "Big Island" mentioned in Bartram's list.

The largest of these groups is situated on the Little Tennessee above Fort London and corresponds
with the position of the ancient "beloved town of Chota" ("Great Chote" of Bartram) as located
by tradition and on both Timberlake's and Ramsey's maps. According to Ramsey, [Footnote: Annals
of Tennessee, p. 157] at the time the pioneers, following in the wake of Daniel Boone near
the close of the eighteenth century, were pouring over the mountains into the valley of the
Watauga, a Mrs. Bean, who was captured by the Cherokees near Watauga, was brought to their
town at this place and was bound, taken to the top of one of the mounds and about to be burned,
when Nancy Ward, then exercising in the nation the functions of the Beloved or Pretty Woman,
interfered and pronounced her pardon.

During the explorations of the mounds of this region a peculiar type of clay beds was found
in several of the larger mounds. These were always saucer shaped, varying in diameter from
6 to 15 feet, and in thickness from 4 to 12 inches. In nearly every instance they were found
in series, one above another, with a layer of coals and ashes between. The series usually consisted
of from three to five beds, sometimes only two, decreasing in size from the lower one upward.
These apparently marked the stages of the growth of the mound, the upper one always being near
the present surface.

The large mound which is on the supposed site of Chota, and possibly the one on which Mrs.
Bean was about to be burned, was thoroughly explored, and found to contain a series of these
clay beds, which always showed the action of fire. In the center of some of these were found
the charred remains of a stake, and about them the usual layer of coals and ashes, but, in
this instance, immediately around where the stake stood were charred fragments of human bones.

As will be seen, when the report which is now in the hands of the printer is published, the
burials in this mound were at various depths, and there is nothing shown to indicate separate
and distinct periods, to lead to the belief that any of these were intrusive in the true sense.
On the contrary, the evidence is pretty clear that all these burials were by one tribe or people.
By the side of nearly every skeleton were one or more articles, as shell masks, engraved shells,
shell pins, shell beads, perforated shells, discoidal stones, polished celts, arrow-heads,
spearheads, stone gorgets, bone implements, clay vessels, or copper hawkbells. The last were
with the skeleton of a child found at the depth of 3 1/2 feet. They are precisely of the form
of the ordinary sleigh- bell of the present day, with pebbles and shell-bead rattles.

That this child belonged to the people to whom the other burials are due will not be doubted
by any one not wedded to a preconceived notion, and that the bells are the work of Europeans
will also be admitted.

In another mound a little farther up the river, and one of a group probably marking the site
of one of the "over-hill towns," were found two carved stone pipes of a comparatively modern
Cherokee type.

The next argument is founded on the fact that in the ancient works of the region alluded to
are discovered evidences of habits and customs similar to those of the Cherokees and some of
the immediately surrounding tribes.

In the article heretofore referred to allusion is made to the evidence found in the mound opened
by Professor Carr of its once having supported a building similar to the council-house observed
by Bartram on a mound at the old Cherokee town Cowe. Both were built on mounds, both were circular,
both were built on posts set in the ground at equal distances from each other, and each had
a central pillar. As tending to confirm this statement of Bartram's, the following passage
may be quoted, where, speaking of Colonel Christian's march against the Cherokee towns in 1770,
Ramsey [Footnote: Annals of Tennessee, p. 169.] says that this officer found in the center
of each town "a circular tower rudely built and covered with dirt, 30 feet in diameter, and
about 20 feet high. This tower was used as a council-house, and as a place for celebrating
the green-corn dance and other national ceremonials." In another mound the remains of posts
apparently marking the site of a building were found. Mr. M. C. Read, of Hudson, Ohio, discovered
similar evidences in a mound near Chattanooga, [Footnote: Smithsonian Rept, for 1867 (1868),
p. 401.] and Mr. Gerard Fowke has quite recently found the same thing in a mound at Waverly. Ohio.

The shell ornaments to which allusion has been made, although occasionally bearing designs
which are undoubtedly of the Mexican or Central American type, nevertheless furnish very strong
evidence that the mounds of east Tennessee and western North Carolina were built by the Cherokees.

According to Adair, the southern Indian priest wore upon his breast "an ornament made of a
white conch-shell, with two holes bored in the middle of it, through which he ran the ends
of an otter-skin strap, and fastened to the extremity of each, a buck- horn white button."
[Footnote: Hist. Am. Indians, p. 84]

Beverly, speaking of the Indians of Virginia, says: "Of this shell they also make round tablets
of about 4 inches in diameter, which they polish as smooth as the other, and sometimes they
etch or grave thereon circles, stars, a half-moon, or any other figure suitable to their fancy."
[Footnote: Hist. Virginia, London, 1705, p. 58]

