Bonnie Prince Charlie A Tale of Fontenoy and Culloden by G. A. Henty

CHAPTER I: The Return of a Prodigal.

It was a dull evening in the month of September, 1728. The apprentices had closed and barred
the shutters and the day's work was over. Supper was laid in the long room over the shop, the
viands were on the table, and round it were standing Bailie Anderson and his wife, his foreman
John Gillespie, and his two apprentices. The latter were furtively eying the eatables, and
wondering how much longer the grace which their master was delivering would be. Suddenly there
was a knock at the door below. No one stirred until the bailie had finished his grace, before
which time the knock had been twice repeated.

"Elspeth, woman," the bailie said when he had brought the grace to an end, "go down below and
see who knocks so impatiently; look through the grille before you open the door; these are
nor times when one opens to the first stranger who knocks."

The old servant, who had been standing behind her mistress, went downstairs. The door was opened,
and they heard an exclamation of surprise at the answer to her question, "Who is it that's
knocking as if the house belonged to him?"

Those gathered up stairs heard the bolts withdrawn. There was a confused sound of talking and
then a heavy step was heard ascending the stairs, and without introduction a tall man, wrapped
in a cloak and carrying a child of some two years old, strode into the room. He threw his hat
on to a settle and advanced straight towards the bailie, who looked in surprise at this unceremonious
entry.

"Don't you know me, Andrew?"

"Heaven preserve us," the bailie exclaimed, "why it's Malcolm!"

"Malcolm himself," the visitor repeated, "sound in wind and limb."

"The Lord be praised!" the bailie exclaimed as he grasped the other's hand and wrung it warmly.
"I had thought you dead years and years ago. Janet, this is my brother Malcolm of whom you
have often heard me speak."

"And of whom you can have heard little good, mistress, if my brother has spoken the truth concerning
me. I was ever a ne'er do well, while Andrew struck hard and fast to our father's trade."

"My husband has ever spoken with affection of you," Janet Anderson said. "The bailie is not
given to speak ill of any, much less of his own flesh and blood."

"And now sit down, Malcolm. Supper is waiting, and you are, I doubt not, ready for it. It is
ill talking to a fasting man. When you have done you shall tell me what you have been doing
for the last fifteen years, and how it comes that you thus suddenly come back among us with
your boy."

"He is no boy of mine," Malcolm said; "but I will tell you all about it presently. First let
me lay him down on that settle, for the poor little chap is fast asleep and dead tired out.
Elspeth, roll up my cloak and make a pillow for him. That's right, he will do nicely now. You
are changed less than any of us, Elspeth. Just as hard to look at, and, I doubt not, just as
soft at heart as you used to be when you tried to shield me when I got into scrapes. And now
to supper."

Little was said during the meal; fortunately the table was bounteously spread, for the newcomer's
appetite was prodigious; but at last he was satisfied, and after a long drink at the horn beside
him, which Elspeth had kept filled with ale, he said:

"There's nothing like a Scottish meal after all, Andrew. French living is well enough for a
time, but one tires of it; and many a time when I have been lying down supperless on the sod,
after marching and fighting the whole day, I have longed for a bowl of porridge and a platter
well filled with oatmeal cakes."

Supper over, John and the apprentices retired. Elspeth went off to prepare the guest's chamber
and to make up a little bed for the child.

"Now, brother, let us hear your story; but, first of all, perhaps you want to light your pipe?"

"That do I," Malcolm replied, "if Mistress Janet has no objection thereto."

"She is accustomed to it," the bailie said, answering for her. "I smoke myself; I deem that
tobacco, like other things, was given for our use, and methinks that with a pipe between the
lips men's brains work more easily and that it leadeth to pleasant converse."

Janet went to a cupboard, brought out two long pipes and a jar of tobacco, placed two tumblers,
a flat bottle, and a jug of water on the table.

"That is right," the bailie said. "I do not often touch strong waters. The habit, as I see
too plainly, is a harmful one, and in this good city of Glasgow there are many, even of those
so placed that they should be an example to their fellows, who are given nightly to drink more
than is good for them; but on an occasion like the present I deem it no harm to take a glass."

"I should think not," Malcolm said heartily; "it is long since I tasted a glass of real Scotch
spirit, and I never need an excuse for taking a glass of whatever it be that comes in my way.
Not, Mistress Janet, that I am a toper. I don't say that at the sack of a town, or at times
when liquor is running, so to speak, to waste, I am more backward than the rest; but my hand
wouldn't be as steady as it is if I had been one of those who are never so happy as when they
are filling themselves with liquor. And now, Andrew, to my story. You know that when I saw
you last -- just when the troubles in `15 began -- in spite of all your warnings to the contrary,
I must needs throw myself into the thick of them. You, like a wise man, stuck to your shop,
and here you are now a bailie of Glasgow; while I, who have been wandering over the face of
the earth fighting for the cause of France and risking my life a thousand times in a matter
which concerned me in no way, have returned just as penniless as I set out."

"It is said, brother Malcolm," Janet said mildly, "that a rolling stone gathers no moss."

"That is true enough," Malcolm assented; "and yet do you know there are few rolling stones
who, if their time were to come over again, would remain fixed in their bed. Of course we have
not the pleasures of home, of wives and children; but the life of adventure has its own joys,
which I, for one, would not change for the others. However, brother, as you know, I threw myself
heart and soul into that business.

"The last time I saw you was just as I was starting with a score of others to make our way
to join the Earl of Mar's army at Perth. I have seen many an army since, but never did I see
sixteen thousand finer fighting men than were there assembled. The Laird of Mackintosh brought
five hundred clansmen from Inverness shire, the Marquis of Huntly had five hundred horse and
two thousand foot, and the Earl Marischal had a thousand men. The Laird of Glenlyon brought
five hundred Campbells, and the Marquis of Tullibardine fourteen hundred, and a score of other
chiefs of less power were there with their clansmen. There were enough men there to have done
anything had they been properly armed and led; but though arms and ammunition had been promised
from France, none came, and the Earl of Mar had so little decision that he would have wrecked
the finest army that ever marched.

"The army lay doing nothing for weeks, and just before we were expecting a movement, the company
I belonged to was sent with a force of Highlanders under Mackintosh to join the army under
the Lords Derwentwater, Kenmure, and Nithsdale. Lord Derwentwater had risen with a number of
other gentlemen, and with their attendants and friends had marched against Newcastle. They
had done nothing there but remained idle near Hexham till, joined by a force raised in the
Lowlands of Scotland by the Earls of Nithsdale, Carnwath, and Wintoun, the united army marched
north again to Kelso, where we joined them.

"We Scots soon saw that we had gained nothing by the change of commanders. Lord Derwentwater
was ignorant of military affairs, and he was greatly swayed by a Mr. Forster, who was somehow
at the head of the business, and who was not only incompetent, but proved to be a coward, if
not, as most folks believed, a traitor. So dissension soon broke out, and four hundred Highlanders
marched away north. After a long delay it was resolved to move south, where, it was said, we
should be joined by great numbers in Lancashire; but by this time all had greatly lost spirit
and hope in the enterprise. We crossed the border and marched down through Penrith, Appleby,
and Kendal to Lancaster, and then on to Preston.

"I was little more than a lad, Andrew, but even to me it seemed madness thus to march into
England with only two thousand men. Of these twelve hundred were foot, commanded by Brigadier
Mackintosh; the others were horse. There were two troops of Stanhope's dragoons quartered in
Preston, but these retired when we neared the town, and we entered without opposition. Next
day, which was, I remember, the 10th of November, the Chevalier was proclaimed king, and some
country gentlemen with their tenants came in and joined us.

"I suppose it would have come to the same thing in the end, but never were things so badly
managed as they were by Mr. Forster.

"Preston was a strong natural position; an enemy coming from the south could only reach it
by crossing a narrow bridge over the river Ribble a mile and a half away, and this could have
been held by a company against an army. From the bridge to the town the road was so narrow
that in several places two men could not ride abreast. It ran between two high and steep banks,
and it was here that Cromwell was nearly killed when he attacked Charles's troops.

"Well, all these places, where we might certainly have defended ourselves, were neglected,
and we were all kept in the town, where we formed four main posts. One was in the churchyard,
and this was commanded by Brigadier Mackintosh. In support of this was the volunteer horse
under Derwentwater and the three other lords. Lord Charles Murray was in command at a barricade
at a little distance from the churchyard. Colonel Mackintosh had charge of a post at a windmill;
and the fourth was in the centre of the town.

"Lord Derwentwater was a poor general, but he was a brave man. He and his two brothers, the
Ratcliffs, rode about everywhere, setting an example of coolness, animating the soldiers, and
seeing to the work on the barriers. Two days after we reached the town we heard that General
Wilde was approaching. Colonel Farquharson was sent forward with a portion of Mackintosh's
battalion to hold the bridge and the pass; but Mr. Forster, who went out on horseback, no sooner
saw the enemy approaching than he gave orders to Farquharson and his men to retreat to the
town. If I had been in Farquharson's place I would have put a bullet through the coward's head,
and would have defended the bridge till the last.

"After that everything was confusion; the Highlanders came back into the town furious and disheartened.
The garrison prepared to receive the enemy. Mr. Forster was seen no more, and in fact he went
straight back to the house where he was lodging and took his bed, where he remained till all
was over. The enemy came on slowly. They could not understand why strong posts should be left
undefended, and feared falling in an ambuscade. I was at the post commanded by Brigadier Mackintosh.
I had joined a company commanded by Leslie of Glenlyon, who had brought with him some twenty
men, and had made up his company with men who, like myself, came up without a leader. His company
was attached to Mackintosh's regiment.

"Presently the English came in sight, and as soon as they ascertained that we were still there,
which they had begun to doubt, they attacked us. We beat them back handsomely, and Derwentwater
with his cavalry charged their dragoons so fiercely that he drove them out of the town. It
was late in the afternoon when the fight began, and all night the struggle went on. At each
of our posts we beat them back over and over again. The town was on fire in half a dozen places,
but luckily the night was still and the flames did not spread. We knew that it was a hopeless
fight we were making; for, from some prisoners, we learned that three regiments of dragoons
were also coming up against us, and had already arrived at Clitheroe. From some inhabitants,
I suppose, the enemy learned that the street leading to Wigan had nor been barricaded, and
Lord Forrester brought up Preston's regiment by this way, and suddenly fell on the flank of
our barrier. It was a tough fight, but we held our own till the news came that Forster had
agreed to capitulate.

"I don't say that our case wasn't hopeless. We were outnumbered and had no leader; sooner or
later we must have been overpowered. Still, no capitulation should have been made except on
the terms of mercy to all concerned. But Forster no doubt felt safe about himself, and that
was all he cared for; and the end showed that he knew what he was about, for while all the
brave young noblemen, and numbers of others, were either executed or punished in other ways,
Forster, who had been the leading spirit who had persuaded them to rise, and led them into
this strait, was after a short imprisonment suffered to go free. I tell you, brother Andrew,
if I were to meet him now, even if it were in a church, I would drive my dagger into his heart.

"However, there we were. So furious were we that it was with difficulty the officers could
prevent us from sallying out sword in hand and trying to cut our way through the enemy. As
to Forster, if he had appeared in the streets he would have been hewn to pieces. However, it
was useless to resist now; the English troops marched in and we laid down our arms, and our
battalions marched into a church and were guarded as prisoners. It was not a great army they
had taken, for there were but one thousand four hundred and ninety captured, including noblemen,
gentlemen, and officers.

"Many of us were wounded more or less. I had got a slice on the shoulder from a dragoon's sword.
This I gained when rushing out to rescue Leslie, who had been knocked down, and would have
been slain by three dragoons had I not stood over him till some of our men rushed out and carried
him in. He was not badly hurt, the sword having turned as it cut through his bonnet. My action
won his regard, and from that time until a month since we have never been separated. Under
a strong escort of soldiers we were marched south. In most places the country people mocked
us as we passed; but here and there we saw among the crowds who gathered in the streets of
the towns through which we passed, faces which we passed, faces which expressed pity and sympathy

"We were not badly treated on the march by our guard, and had little to complain of. When we
reached Barnet we fell out as usual when the march was over, and I went up to the door of a
house and asked a woman, who looked pityingly at us, for a drink of water. She brought me some,
and while I drank she said:

"'We are Catholics and well wishers of the Chevalier; if you can manage to slip in here after
it is dark we will furnish you with a disguise, and will direct you to friends who will pass
you on until you can escape.

"'Can you give me disguises for two?' I asked. `I will not go without my captain.'

"'Yes,' she said, `for two, but no more.'

"`I will steal away after dark,' I said as I gave her back the jug.

"I told Leslie what had happened, and he agreed to join me in time to escape, for there was
no saying what fate might befall us in London; and, indeed, the very next morning severities
commenced, the whole of the troops being obliged to suffer the indignity of having their arms
tied behind them, and so being marched into London.

"After it was dark Leslie and I managed to steal away from our guards, who were not very watchful,
for our uniform would at once have betrayed us, and the country people would have seized and
handed us over. The woman was on the watch, and as soon as we neared the door she opened it.
Her husband was with her and received us kindly. He at once furnished us with the attire of
two countrymen, and, letting us out by a back way, started with us across the country.

"After walking twenty miles he brought us to the house of another adherent of the Chevalier,
where we remained all day. So we were passed on until we reached the coast, where we lay hid
for some days until an arrangement was made with the captain of a fishing boat to take us to
sea, and either to land us at Calais or to put us on board a French fishing boat. So we got
over without trouble.

"Long before that, as you know, the business had virtually come to an end here. The Earl of
Mar's army lay week after week at Perth, till at last it met the enemy under Argyle at Sheriffmuir.

"You know how that went. The Highland clans in the right and centre carried all before them,
and drove the enemy from the field, but on the left they beat us badly. So both parties claimed
the victory. But, victory or defeat, it was fatal to the cause of the Chevalier. Half the Highland
clans went off to their homes that night, and Mar had to fall back to Perth.

"Well, that was really the end of it. The Chevalier landed, and for a while our hopes rose.
He did nothing, and our hopes fell. At last he took ship and went away, and the affair was
over, except for the hangings and slaughterings.

"Leslie, like most of the Scottish gentlemen who succeeded in reaching France, took service
with the French king, and, of course, I did the same. It would have done your heart good to
see how the Scottish regiments fought on many a field; the very best troops of France were
never before us, and many a tough field was decided by our charge. Leslie was a cornet. He
was about my age; and you know I was but twenty when Sheriffmuir was fought. He rose to be
a colonel, and would have given me a pair of colours over and over again if I would have taken
them; but I felt more comfortable among our troopers than I should have done among the officers,
who were almost all men of good Highland family; so I remained Leslie's right hand.

"A braver soldier never swung a leg over saddle; but he was always in some love affair or another.
Why he didn't marry I couldn't make out. I suppose he could never stick long enough to one
woman. However, some four years ago he got into an affair more serious than any he had been
in before, and this time he stuck to it in right earnest. Of course she was precisely one of
the women he oughtn't to have fallen in love with, though I for one couldn't blame him, for
a prettier creature wasn't to be found in France. Unfortunately she was the only daughter of
the Marquis de Recambours, one of the wealthiest and most powerful of French nobles, and there
was no more chance of his giving his consent to her throwing herself away upon a Scottish soldier
of fortune than to her going into a nunnery; less, in fact. However, she was as much in love
with Leslie as he was with her, and so they got secretly married. Two years ago this child
was born, but she managed somehow to keep it from her father, who was all this time urging
her to marry the Duke de Chateaurouge.

"At last, as ill luck would have it, he shut her up in a convent just a week before she had
arranged to fly with Leslie to Germany, where he intended to take service until her father
came round. Leslie would have got her out somehow; but his regiment was ordered to the frontier,
and it was eighteen months before we returned to Paris, where the child had been in keeping
with some people with whom he had placed it. The very evening of his return I was cleaning
his arms when he rushed into the room.

"'All is discovered,' he said; 'here is my signet ring, go at once and get the child, and make
your way with it to Scotland; take all the money in the escritoire, quick!'

"I heard feet approaching, and dashed to the bureau, and transferred the bag of louis there
to my pocket. An official with two followers entered.

"'Colonel Leslie,' he said, 'it is my duty to arrest you by order of his gracious majesty;'
and he held out an order signed by the king.

"'I am unconscious of having done any wrong, sir, to his majesty, whom I have served for the
last sixteen years. However, it is not for me to dispute his orders;' thereupon he unbuckled
his sword and handed it to the officers. 'You will look after the things till I return, Malcolm.
As I am sure I can clear myself of any charge that may be brought against me, I trust to be
speedily back again.

"'Your trooper need not trouble himself,' the officer said; `the official with me will take
charge of everything, and will at once affix my seal to all your effects.'

"I went down stairs and saw the colonel enter a carriage with the two officials, then I went
straight to the major. 'Colonel Leslie has been arrested, sir, on what charge I know not. He
has intrusted a commission to me. Therefore, if you find I am absent from parade in the morning
you will understand I am carrying out his orders.'

"The major was thunderstruck at the news, but told me to do as the colonel had ordered me,
whatever it might be. I mounted the colonel's horse at once and rode to the house where the
child was in keeping. The people knew me well, as I had often been there with messages from
the colonel. When I showed them the signet ring, and told them that I had orders to take the
child to his father, they made no opposition. I said I would return for him as soon as it was
dusk. I then went and purchased a suit of civilian clothes, and returning to the house attired
myself in these, and taking the child on the saddle before me, rode for the frontier.

"Following unfrequented roads, travelling only at night, and passing a day in a wood, I passed
the frontier unmolested, and made my way to Ostend, where I sold the horse and took passage
in the first ship sailing for Leith. I arrived there two days ago, and have walked here, with
an occasional lift in a cart; and here I am, brother Andrew, to ask you for hospitality for
a while for myself and Leslie's boy. I have a hundred louis, but these, of course, belong to
the child. As for myself, I confess I have nothing; saving has never been in my line."

"You are heartily welcome, Malcolm, as long as you choose to stop; but I trust that ere long
you will hear of Colonel Leslie."

"I trust so," Malcolm said; "but if you knew the court of France as well as I do you would
not feel very sanguine about it. It is easier to get into a prison than out of one."

"But the colonel has committed no crime!" the bailie said.

"His chance would be a great deal better if he had," Malcolm laughed. "A colonel of one of
his majesty's Scottish regiments can do a good deal in the way of crime without much harm befalling
him; but when it comes to marrying the daughter of a nobleman who is a great personage at court,
without his consent, it is a different affair altogether, I can tell you. Leslie has powerful
friends, and his brother officers will do what they can for him; but I can tell you services
at the court of France go for very little. Influence is everything, and as the nobleman the
marquis intended to be the husband of his daughter is also a great personage at court and a
friend of Louis's, there is no saying how serious a matter they may make of it. Men have been
kept prisoners for life for a far less serious business than this."

"But supposing he is released, does he know where to communicate with you?"

"I am afraid he doesn't," Malcolm said ruefully. "He knows that I come from Glasgow, but that
is all. Still, when he is freed, no doubt he will come over himself to look for his son, and
I am sure to hear of his being here."

"You might do, and you might not," the bailie said. "Still, we must hope for the best, Malcolm.
At any rate I am in no haste for the colonel to come. Now I have got you home again after all
these years, I do not wish to lose you again in a hurry."

Malcolm only remained for a few weeks at his brother's house. The restraint of life at the
bailie's was too much for him. Andrew's was a well ordered household. The bailie was methodical
and regular, a leading figure in the kirk, far stricter than were most men of his time as to
undue consumption of liquor, strong in exhortation in season and out of season. His wife was
kindly but precise, and as outspoken as Andrew himself. For the first day or two the real affection
which Andrew had for his younger brother, and the pleasure he felt at his return, shielded
Malcolm from comment or rebuke; but after the very first day the bailie's wife had declared
to herself that it was impossible that Malcolm could long remain an inmate of the house. She
was not inhospitable, and would have made great sacrifices in some directions for the long
missing brother of her husband; but his conduct outraged all the best feelings of a good Scotch
housewife.

Even on that first day he did not come punctually to his meals. He was away about the town
looking up old acquaintance, came in at dinner and again at supper after the meal had already
begun, and dropped into his place and began to eat without saying a word of grace. He stamped
about the house as if he had cavalry spurs still on his heels; talked in a voice that could
be heard from attic to basement; used French and Flemish oaths which horrified the good lady,
although she did not understand them; smoked at all hours of the day, whereas Andrew always
confined himself to his after supper pipe, and, in spite of his assertions on the previous
evening, consumed an amount of liquor which horrified the good woman.

At his meals he talked loudly, kept the two apprentices in a titter with his stories of campaigning,
spoke slightingly of the city authorities, and joked the bailie with a freedom and roughness
which scandalized her. Andrew was slow to notice the incongruity of his brother's demeanour
and bearing with the atmosphere of the house, although he soon became dimly conscious that
there was a jarring element in the air. At the end of a week Malcolm broached the subject to him.

"Andrew," he said, "you are a good fellow, though you are a bailie and an elder of the kirk,
and I thank you for the hearty welcome you have given me, and for your invitation to stay for
a long time with you; but it will not do. Janet is a good woman and a kindly, but I can see
that I keep her perpetually on thorns. In good truth, fifteen years of campaigning are but
an indifferent preparation for a man as an inmate of a respectable household. I did not quite
know myself how thoroughly I had become a devil may care trooper until I came back to my old
life here. The ways of your house would soon be as intolerable to me as my ways are to your
good wife, and therefore it is better by far that before any words have passed between you
and me, and while we are as good friends as on the evening when I returned, I should get out
of this. I met an old friend today, one of the lads who went with me from Glasgow to join the
Earl of Mar at Perth. He is well to do now, and trades in cattle, taking them in droves down
into England. For the sake of old times he has offered me employment, and methinks it will
suit me as well as any other."

"But you cannot surely be going as a drover, Malcolm!"

"Why not? The life is as good as any other. I would not sit down, after these years of roving,
to an indoor life. I must either do that or cross the water again and take service abroad.
I am only six and thirty yet, and am good for another fifteen years of soldiering, and right
gladly would I go back if Leslie were again at the head of his regiment, but I have been spoiled
by him. He ever treated me as a companion and as a friend rather than as a trooper in his regiment,
and I should miss him sorely did I enter any other service. Then, too, I would fain be here
to be ready to join him again if he sends for me or comes, and I should wish to keep an eye
always on his boy. You will continue to take charge of him, won't you, Andrew? He is still
a little strange, but he takes to Elspeth, and will give little trouble when he once learns
the language."

"I don't like it at all, Malcolm," the bailie said.

"No, Andrew, but you must feel it is best. I doubt not that ere this your wife has told you
her troubles concerning me."

As the bailie on the preceding night had listened to a long string of complaints and remonstrances
on the part of his wife as to his brother's general conduct he could not deny the truth of
Malcolm's supposition.

"Just so, Andrew," Malcolm went on; "I knew that it must be so. Mistress Janet has kept her
lips closed firm to me, but I could see how difficult it was for her sometimes to do so. It
could not be otherwise. I am as much out of place here as a wolf in a sheepfold. As to the
droving, I shall not mention to all I meet that I am brother to one of the bailies of Glasgow.
I shall like the life. The rough pony I shall ride will differ in his paces from my old charger,
but at least it will be life in the saddle. I shall be earning an honest living; if I take
more than is good for me I may get a broken head and none be the wiser, whereas if I remain
here and fall foul of the city watch it would be grief and pain for you."

The bailie was silenced. He had already begun to perceive that Malcolm's ways and manners were
incompatible with the peace and quiet of a respectable household, and that Janet's complaints
were not altogether unreasonable. He had seen many of his acquaintances lift their eyebrows
in disapprobation at the roystering talk of his brother, and had foreseen that it was probable
trouble would come.

At the same rime he felt a repugnance to the thought that after so many years of absence his
brother should so soon quit his house. It seemed a reflection alike on his affection and hospitality.

"You will take charge of the child, won't you?" Malcolm pleaded. "There is a purse of a hundred
louis, which will, I should say, pay for any expense to which he may put you for some years."

"As if I would take the bairn's money!" Andrew exclaimed angrily. "What do you take me for,
Malcolm? Assuredly I will take the child. Janet and I have no bairn of our own, and it's good
for a house to have a child in it. I look upon it as if it were yours, for it is like enough
you will never hear of its father again. It will have a hearty welcome. It is a bright little
fellow, and in time I doubt not that Janet will take greatly to it. The charge of a child is
a serious matter, and we cannot hope that we shall not have trouble with it, but there is trouble
in all things. At any rate, Malcolm, we will do our best, and if at the end of a year I find
that Janet has not taken to it we will see about some other arrangement. And, Malcolm, I do
trust that you will stay with us for another week or two. It would seem to me as if I had turned
you out of my house were you to leave me so soon."

So Malcolm made a three weeks' stay at his brother's, and then started upon his new occupation
of driving Highland cattle down into Lancashire. Once every two or three months he came to
Glasgow for a week or two between his trips. In spite of Andrew's entreaties he refused on
these occasions to take up his abode with him, but took a lodging not far off, coming in the
evening for an hour to smoke a pipe with his brother, and never failing of a morning to come
in and take the child for a long walk with him, carrying him upon his shoulder, and keeping
up a steady talk with him in his native French, which he was anxious that the boy should nor
forget, as at some time or other he might again return to France.

Some weeks after Malcolm's return to Scotland, he wrote to Colonel Leslie, briefly giving his
address at Glasgow; but making no allusion to the child, as, if the colonel were still in prison,
the letter would be sure to be opened by the authorities. He also wrote to the major, giving
him his address, and begging him to communicate it to Colonel Leslie whenever he should see
him; that done, there was nothing for it but to wait quietly. The post was so uncertain in
those days that he had but slight hope that either of his letters would ever reach their destination.
No answer came to either of his letters.

Four years later Malcolm went over to Paris, and cautiously made inquiries; but no one had
heard anything of Colonel Leslie from the day he had been arrested. The regiment was away fighting
in the Low Countries, and the only thing Malcolm could do was to call upon the people who had
had charge of the child, to give them his address in case the colonel should ever appear to
inquire of them. He found, however, the house tenanted by other people. He learned that the
last occupants had left years before. The neighbors remembered that one morning early some
officers of the law had come to the house, and the man had been seized and carried away. He
had been released some months later, only to find that his wife had died of grief and anxiety,
and he had then sold off his goods and gone no one knew whither. Malcolm, therefore, returned
to Glasgow, with the feeling that he had gained nothing by his journey.

CHAPTER II: The Jacobite Agent.

So twelve years passed. Ronald Leslie grew up a sturdy lad, full of fun and mischief in spite
of the sober atmosphere of the bailie's house; and neither flogging at school nor lecturing
at home appeared to have the slightest effect in reducing him to that state of sober tranquillity
which was in Mrs. Anderson's eyes the thing to be most desired in boys. Andrew was less deeply
shocked than his wife at the discovery of Ronald's various delinquencies, but his sense of
order and punctuality was constantly outraged. He was, however, really fond of the lad; and
even Mrs. Anderson, greatly as the boy's ways constantly disturbed and ruffled her, was at
heart as fond of him as was her husband. She considered, and not altogether wrongly, that his
wilderness, as she called it, was in no slight degree due to his association with her husband's
brother.

Ronald looked forward to the periodical visits of the drover with intense longing. He was sure
of a sympathetic listener in Malcolm, who listened with approval to the tales of the various
scrapes into which he had got since his last visit; of how, instead of going to school, he
had played truant and with another boy his own age had embarked in a fisherman's boat and gone
down the river and had not been able to get back until next day; how he had played tricks upon
his dominie, and had conquered in single combat the son of Councillor Duff, the butcher, who
had spoken scoffing words at the Stuarts. Malcolm was, in fact, delighted to find, that in
spite of repression and lectures his young charge was growing up a lad of spirit. He still
hoped that some day Leslie might return, and he knew how horrified he would be were he to find
that his son was becoming a smug and well conducted citizen. No small portion of his time on
each of his visits to Glasgow Malcolm spent in training the boy in the use of arms.

"Your father was a gentleman," he would say to him, "and it is fitting that you should know
how to handle a gentleman's arms. Clubs are well enough for citizens' apprentices, but I would
have you handle rapier and broadsword as well as any of the young lairds. When you get old
enough, Ronald, you and I will cross the seas, and together we will try and get to the bottom
of the mystery of your father's fate, and if we find that the worst has come to the worst,
we will seek our your mother. She will most likely have married again. They will be sure to
have forced her into it; but even if she dare not acknowledge you as her son, her influence
may obtain for you a commission in one of the king's regiments, and even if they think I'm
too old for a trooper I will go as your follower. There are plenty of occasions at the court
of France when a sharp sword and a stout arm, even if it be somewhat stiffened by age, can
do good service."

The lessons began as soon as Ronald was old enough to hold a light blade, and as between the
pauses of exercise Malcolm was always ready to tell stories of his adventures in the wars of
France, the days were full of delight to Ronald. When the latter reached the age of fourteen
Malcolm was not satisfied with the amount of proficiency which the lad was able to gain during
his occasional visits, and therefore took him for further instruction to a comrade who had,
like himself, served in France, and had returned and settled down in Glasgow, where he opened
a fencing school, having been a maitre d'armes among the Scotch regiments.

The arrangement was, however, kept a profound secret from Andrew and his wife; but on half
holidays, and on any other days when he could manage to slip away for an hour, Ronald went
to his instructor and worked hard and steadily with the rapier. Had Mrs. Anderson had an idea
of the manner in which he spent his time she would have been horrified, and would certainly
have spared her encomiums on his improved conduct and the absence of the unsatisfactory reports
which had before been so common.

The cloud of uncertainty which hung over his father's fate could not but have an influence
upon the boy's character, and the happy carelessness and gaiety which were its natural characteristics
were modified by the thought that his father might be languishing in a dungeon. Sometimes he
would refuse to accompany his school fellows on their rambles or fishing expeditions, and would
sit for hours thinking over all sorts of wild plans by which he might penetrate to him and
aid him to escape. He was never tired of questioning Malcolm Anderson as to the prisons in
which, if still alive, his father would be likely to be confined. He would ask as to their
appearance, the height of their walls, whether they were moated or not, and whether other houses
abutted closely upon them. One day Malcolm asked him the reason of these questions, and he
replied, "Of course I want to see how it will be possible to get my father out." And although
Malcolm tried to impress upon him that it would be an almost impossible task even to discover
in which prison his father was kept, he would not allow himself to be discouraged.

"There must be some way of finding out, Malcolm. You tell me that prisoners are not even known
by their name to the warders, but only under a number. Still someone must know -- there must
be lists kept of those in prison, and I shall trust to my mother to find out for me. A great
lady as she is must be able to get at people if she sets about it, and as certainly she must
have loved my father very very much, or she never would have married him secretly, and got
into such trouble for it. I am sure she will do her best when she finds that you and I have
come over to get him out. When we know that, I think we ought to be able to manage. You could
get employment as a warder, or I could go disguised as a woman, or as a priest, or somehow.
I feel sure we shall succeed if we do but find out that he is alive and where he is."

Malcolm knew too much about the strong and well guarded prisons of France to share in the boy's
sanguine hopes, but he did not try to discourage him. He thought that with such an object in
life before him the boy would devote himself all the more eagerly to exercises which would
strengthen his arm, increase his skill with weapons, and render him a brave and gallant officer,
and in this he was right. As the time went on Ronald became more and more serious. He took
no part whatever in the school boy games and frolics in which he had been once a leader. He
worked hard at his school tasks the sooner to be done with them, and above all devoted himself
to acquiring a mastery of the sword with a perseverance and enthusiasm which quite surprised
his instructor.

"I tell you, Malcolm, man," he said one day to his old comrade, after Ronald had been for upwards
of two years his pupil, "if I had known, when you first asked me to teach the lad to handle
a sword, how much of my time he was going to occupy, I should have laughed in your face, for
ten times the sum you agreed to pay me would not have been enough; but, having begun it for
your sake, I have gone on for the lad's. It has been a pleasure to teach him, so eager was
he to learn -- so ready to work heart and soul to improve. The boy's wrist is as strong as
mine and his eye as quick. I have long since taught him all I know, and it is practice now,
and not teaching, that we have every day. I tell you I have work to hold my own with him; he
knows every trick and turn as well as I do, and is quicker with his lunge and riposte. Were
it not that I have my extra length of arm in my favour I could not hold my own. As you know,
I have many of the officers of the garrison among my pupils, and some of them have learned
in good schools, but there is not one of them could defend himself for a minute against that
boy. If it were not that the matter has to be kept secret I would set him in front of some
of them, and you would see what short work he would make of them. Have you heard the rumours,
Malcolm, that the young Chevalier is likely to follow the example of his father, thirty years
back, and to make a landing in Scotland?"

"I have heard some such rumours," Malcolm replied, "though whether there be aught in them I
know not. I hope that if he does so he will at any rate follow the example of his father no
further. As you know, I hold to the Stuarts, but I must own they are but poor hands at fighting.
Charles the First ruined his cause; James the Second threw away the crown of Ireland by galloping
away from the battle of the Boyne; the Chevalier showed here in `15 that he was no leader of
men; and unless this lad is made of very different stuff to his forefathers he had best stay
in France."

"But if he should come, Malcolm, I suppose you will join him? I am afraid I shall be fool enough
to do so, even with my fifty years on my head. And you?"

"I suppose I shall be a fool too," Malcolm said. "The Stuarts are Scotch, you see, and with
all their faults I would rather a thousand times have a Scottish king than these Germans who
govern us from London. If the English like them let them keep them, and let us have a king
of our own. However, nought may come of it; it may be but a rumour. It is a card which Louis
has threatened to play a score of times, whenever he wishes to annoy England. It is more than
likely that it will come to nought, as it has so often done before."

"But they tell me that there are agents travelling about among the Highland clans, and that
this time something is really to be done."

"They have said so over and over again, and nothing has come of it. For my part, I don't care
which way it goes. After the muddle that was made of it thirty years ago it does not seem to
me more likely that we shall get rid of the Hanoverians now. Besides, the hangings and slaughterings
then, would, I should think, make the nobles and the heads of clans think twice ere they risked
everything again."

"That is true, but when men's blood is up they do not count the cost; besides, the Highland
clans are always ready to fight. If Prince Charles comes you will see there will not be much
hanging back whatever the consequences may be. Well, you and I have not much to lose, except
our lives."

"That is true enough, old friend; and I would rather die that way than any other. Still, to
tell you the truth, I would rather keep my head on my shoulders for a few years if I can."

"Well, nothing may come of it; but if it does I shall strike a blow again for the old cause."

At home Ronald heard nothing but expressions of loyalty to the crown. The mere fact that the
Highlanders espoused the cause of the Stuarts was sufficient in itself to make the Lowlanders
take the opposite side. The religious feeling, which had always counted for so much in the
Lowlands, and had caused Scotland to side with the Parliament against King Charles, had not
lost its force. The leanings of the Stuarts were, it was known, still strongly in favour of
the Catholic religion, and although Prince Charles Edward was reported to be more Protestant
in feelings than the rest of his race, this was not sufficient to counterbalance the effect
of the hereditary Catholic tendency. Otherwise there was no feeling of active loyalty towards
the reigning king in Scotland. The first and second Georges had none of the attributes which
attract loyal affection. The first could with difficulty speak the language of the people over
whom he ruled. Their feelings and sympathies were Hanoverian rather than English, and all court
favours were bestowed as fast as possible upon their countrymen. They had neither the bearing
nor manner which men associate with royalty, nor the graces and power of attraction which distinguished
the Stuarts. Commonplace and homely in manner, in figure, and in bearing, they were not men
whom their fellows could look up to or respect; their very vices were coarse, and the Hanoverian
men and women they gathered round them were hated by the English people.

Thus neither in England nor Scotland was there any warm feeling of loyalty for the reigning
house; and though it was possible that but few would adventure life and property in the cause
of the Stuarts, it was equally certain that outside the army there were still fewer who would
draw sword for the Hanoverian king. Among the people of the Lowland cities of Scotland the
loyalty which existed was religious rather than civil, and rested upon the fact that their
forefathers had fought against the Stuarts, while the Highlanders had always supported their
cause. Thus, although in the household and in kirk Ronald had heard King George prayed for
regularly, he had heard no word concerning him calculated to waken a boyish feeling of loyalty,
still less of enthusiasm. Upon the other hand he knew that his father had fought and suffered
for the Stuarts and was an exile in their cause, and that Hanoverians had handed over the estate
of which he himself would now be the heir to one of their adherents.

"It is no use talking of these matters to Andrew," Malcolm impressed upon him; "it would do
no good. When he was a young man he took the side of the Hanoverians, and he won't change now;
while, did Mistress Janet guess that your heart was with the Stuarts, she would say that I
was ruining you, and should bring you to a gallows. She is not fond of me now, though she does
her best to be civil to her husband's brother; but did she know that you had become a Jacobite,
like enough she would move Andrew to put a stop to your being with me, and there would be all
sorts of trouble."

"But they could nor prevent my being with you," Ronald said indignantly. "My father gave me
into your charge, not into theirs."

"That's true enough, laddie; but it is they who have cared for you and brought you up. When
you are a man you can no doubt go which way it pleases you; but till then you owe your duty
and respect to them, and not to me, who have done nought for you but just carry you over here
in my cloak."

"I know they have done everything for me," Ronald said penitently. "They have been very good
and kind, and I love them both; but for all that it is only natural that my father should be
first, and that my heart should be in the cause that he fought for."

"That is right enough, Ronald, and I would not have it otherwise, and I have striven to do
my best to make you as he would like to see you. Did he never come back again I should be sorry
indeed to see Colonel Leslie's son growing up a Glasgow tradesman, as my brother no doubt intends
you to be, for I know he has long since given up any thought of hearing from your father; but
in that you and I will have a say when the time comes. Until then you must treat Andrew as
your natural guardian, and there is no need to anger him by letting him know that your heart
is with the king over the water, any more than that you can wield a sword like a gentleman.
Let us have peace as long as we can. You are getting on for sixteen now; another two years
and we will think about going to Paris together. I am off again tomorrow, Ronald; it will not
be a long trip this time, but maybe before I get back we shall have news from France which
will set the land on fire."

A short time after this conversation, as Ronald on his return from college (for he was now
entered at the university) passed through the shop, the bailie was in conversation with one
of the city magistrates, and Ronald caught the words:

"He is somewhere in the city. He came down from the Highlands, where he has been going to and
fro, two days since. I have a warrant out against him, and the constables are on the lookout.
I hope to have him in jail before tonight. These pestilent rogues are a curse to the land,
though I cannot think the clans would be fools enough to rise again, even though Charles Stuart
did come."

Ronald went straight up to his room, and for a few minutes sat in thought. The man of whom
they spoke was doubtless an emissary of Prince Charles, and his arrest might have serious consequences,
perhaps bring ruin on all with whom he had been in communication. Who he was or what he was
like Ronald knew not; but he determined at any rate to endeavour to defeat the intentions of
the magistrate to lay hands on him. Accordingly a few minutes later, while the magistrate was
still talking with Andrew, he again went out.

Ronald waited about outside the door till he left, and then followed him at a short distance.
The magistrate spoke to several acquaintances on the way, and then went to the council chamber.
Waiting outside, Ronald saw two or three of the magistrates enter. An hour later the magistrate
he was watching came out; but he had gone but a few paces when a man hurrying up approached
him. They talked earnestly for a minute or two. The magistrate then re-entered the building,
remained there a few minutes, and then joined the man who was waiting outside. Ronald had stolen
up and taken his stand close by.

"It is all arranged," the magistrate said; "as soon as night has fallen a party will go down,
surround the house, and arrest him. It is better not to do it in daylight. I shall lead the
party, which will come round to my house, so if the men you have left on watch bring you news
that he has changed his hiding place, let me know at once.

The magistrate walked on. Ronald stood irresolute. He had obtained no clue as to the residence
of the person of whom they were in search, and after a moment's thought he determined to keep
an eye upon the constable, who would most likely join his comrade on the watch. This, however,
he did not do immediately. He had probably been for some time at work, and now took the opportunity
of going home for a meal, for he at once made his way to a quiet part of the city, and entered
a small house.

It was half an hour before he came out again, and Ronald fidgeted with impatience, for it was
already growing dusk. When he issued out Ronald saw that he was armed with a heavy cudgel.
He walked quickly now, and Ronald, following at a distance, passed nearly across the town,
and down a quiet street which terminated against the old wall running from the Castle Port
to a small tower. When he got near the bottom of the street a man came out from an archway,
and the two spoke together. From their gestures Ronald felt sure that it was the last house
on the left hand side of the street that was being watched. He had not ventured to follow far
down the street, for as there was no thoroughfare he would at once be regarded with suspicion.
The question now was how to warn the man of his danger. He knew several men were on the watch,
and as only one was in the street, doubtless the others were behind the house. If anything
was to be done there was no time to be lost, for the darkness was fast closing in.

After a minute's thought he went quickly up the street, and then started at a run, and then
came down upon a place where he could ascend the wall, which was at many points in bad repair.
With some difficulty he climbed up, and found that he was exactly opposite the house he wished
to reach. It was dark now. Even in the principal streets the town was only lit by oil lamps
here and there, and there was no attempt at illumination in the quiet quarters, persons who
went abroad after nightfall always carrying a lantern with them. There was still sufficient
light to show Ronald that the house stood at a distance of some fourteen feet from the wall.
The roof sloped too steeply for him to maintain his holding upon it; but halfway along the
house was a dormer window about three feet above the gutter. It was unglazed, and doubtless
gave light to a granary or store room.

Ronald saw that his only chance was to alight on the roof close enough to this window to be
able to grasp the woodwork. At any other moment he would have hesitated before attempting such
a leap. The wall was only a few feet wide, and he could therefore get but little run for a
spring. His blood was, however, up, and having taken his resolution he did not hesitate. Drawing
back as far as he could he took three steps, and then sprang for the window. Its sill was some
three feet higher than the edge of the wall from which he sprang.

The leap was successful; his feet struck just upon the gutter, and the impetus threw forward
his body, and his hands grasped the woodwork of the window. In a moment he had dragged himself
inside. It was quite dark within the room. He moved carefully, for the floor was piled with
disused furniture, boxes, sacking, and rubbish. He was some time finding the door, but although
he moved as carefully as he could he knocked over a heavy chest which was placed on a rickety
chair, the two falling with a crash on the floor. At last he found the door and opened it.
As he did so a light met his eyes, and he saw ascending the staircase a man with a drawn sword,
and a woman holding a light above her head following closely. The man uttered an exclamation
on seeing Ronald appear.

"A thief!" he said. "Surrender, or I will run you through at once."

"I am no thief," Ronald replied. "My name is Ronald Leslie, and I am a student at the university.
I have come here to warn someone, whom I know not, in this house that it is watched, and that
in a few minutes at the outside a band of the city watch will be here to capture him."

The man dropped the point of his sword, and taking the light from the woman held it closer
to Ronald's face.

"How came you here?" he asked. "How did you learn this news?"

"The house is watched both sides below," Ronald said, "and I leapt from the wall through the
dormer window. I heard a magistrate arranging with one of the constables for a capture, and
gathered that he of whom they were in search was a Jacobite, and as I come of a stock which
has always been faithful to the Stuarts, I hastened to warn him."

The woman uttered a cry of alarm.

"I thank you with all my heart, young sir. I am he for whom they are in search, and if I get
free you will render a service indeed to our cause; but there is no time to talk now, if what
you tell me be true. You say the house is watched from both sides?"

"Yes; there are two men in the lane below, one or more, I know not how many, behind."

"There is no escape behind," the man said; "the walls are high, and other houses abut upon
them. I will sally out and fight through the men in front."

"I can handle the sword," Ronald put in; "and if you will provide me with a weapon I will do
my best by your side."

"You are a brave lad," the man said, "and I accept your aid."

He led the way down stairs and entered a room, took down a sword from over the fireplace, and
gave it to Ronald.

As he took it in his hand there was a loud knocking at the door.

"Too late!" the man exclaimed. "Quick, the light, Mary! At any rate I must burn my papers."

He drew some letters from his pocket, lit them at the lamp, and threw them on the hearth; then
opening a cabinet he drew forth a number of other papers and crumpling them up added them to
the blaze.

"Thank God that is safe!" he said; "the worst evil is averted."

"Can you not escape by the way by which I came hither?" Ronald said. "The distance is too great
to leap; but if you have got a plank, or can pull up a board from the floor, you could put
it across to the wall and make your escape that way. I will try to hold the stairs till you
are away."

"I will try at least," the man said. "Mary, bring the light, and aid me while our brave friend
does his best to give us time."

So saying he sprang upstairs, while Ronald made his way down to the door.

"Who is making such a noise at the door of a quiet house at this time of night?" he shouted.

"Open in the king's name," was the reply; "we have a warrant to arrest one who is concealed here."

"There is no one concealed here," Ronald replied, "and I doubt that you are, as you say, officers
of the peace; but if so, pass your warrant through the grill, and if it be signed and in due
form I will open to you."

"I will show my warrant when need be," the voice answered. "Once more, open the door or we
will break it in."

"Do it at your peril," Ronald replied. "How can I tell you are not thieves who seek to ransack
the house, and that your warrant is a pretence? I warn you that the first who enters I will
run him through the body."

The reply was a shower of blows on the door, and a similar attack was begun by a party behind
the house. The door was strong, and after a minute or two the hammering ceased, and then there
was a creaking, straining noise, and Ronald knew they were applying a crowbar to force it open.
He retreated to a landing halfway up the stairs, placed a lamp behind him so that it would
show its light full on the faces of those ascending the stairs, and waited. A minute later
there was a crash; the lock had yielded, but the bar still held the door in its place. Then
the blows redoubled, mingled with the crashing of wood; then there was the sound of a heavy
fall, and a body of men burst in.

There was a rush at the stairs, but the foremost halted at the sight of Ronald with his drawn
sword.

"Keep back," he shouted, "or beware! The watch will be here in a few minutes, and then you
will all be laid by the heels."

"Fools! We are the watch," one of the men exclaimed, and, dashing up the stairs, aimed a blow
at Ronald. He guarded it and ran the man through the shoulder. He dropped his sword and fell
back with a curse.

At this moment the woman ran down stairs from above and nodded to Ronald to signify that the
fugitive had escaped.

"You see I hold to my word," Ronald said in a loud voice. "If ye be the watch, which I doubt,
show me the warrant, or if ye have one in authority with you let him proclaim himself."

"Here is the warrant, and here am I, James M'Whirtle, a magistrate of this city."

"Why did you not say so before?" Ronald exclaimed, lowering his sword. "If it be truly the
worshipful Mr. M'Whirtle let him show himself, for surely I know him well, having seen him
often in the house of my guardian, Bailie Anderson."

Mr. M'Whirtle, who had been keeping well in the rear, now came forward.

"It is himself." Ronald said. "Why did you not say you were here at once, Mr. M'Whirtle, instead
of setting your men to break down the door, as if they were Highland caterans on a foray?"

"We bade you open in the king's name," the magistrate said, "and you withstood us, and it will
be hanging matter for you, for you have aided the king's enemies."

"The king's enemies!" Ronald said in a tone of surprise. "How can there be any enemies of the
king here, seeing there are only myself and the good woman up stairs? You will find no others."

"Search the house," the magistrate said furiously, "and take this malapert lad into custody
on the charge of assisting the king's enemies, of impeding the course of justice, of withstanding
by force of arms the issue of a lawful writ, and with grievously wounding one of the city watch."

Ronald laughed.

"It is a grievous list, worshipful sir; but mark you, as soon as you showed your warrant and
declared yourself I gave way to you. I only resisted so long as it seemed to me you were evildoers
breaking into a peaceful house."

Two of the watch remained as guard over Ronald; one of the others searched the house from top
to bottom. No signs of the fugitive were discovered.

"He must be here somewhere," the magistrate said, "since he was seen to enter, and the house
has been closely watched ever since. See, there are a pile of ashes on the hearth as if papers
had been recently burned. Sound the floors and the walls."

The investigation was particularly sharp in the attic, for a board was here found to be loose,
and there were signs of its being recently wrenched out of its place, but as the room below
was unceiled this discovery led to nothing. At last the magistrate was convinced that the fugitive
was not concealed in the house, and, after placing his seals on the doors of all the rooms
and leaving four men in charge, he left the place, Ronald, under the charge of four men, accompanying
him.

On the arrival at the city Tolbooth Ronald was thrust into a cell and there left until morning.
He was then brought before Mr. M'Whirtle and two other of the city magistrates. Andrew Anderson
was in attendance, having been notified the night before of what had befallen Ronald. The bailie
and his wife had at first been unable to credit the news, and were convinced that some mistake
had been made. Andrew had tried to obtain his release on his promise to bring him up in the
morning, but Mr. M'Whirtle and his colleagues, who had been hastily summoned together, would
not hear of it.

"It's a case of treason, man. Treason against his gracious majesty; aiding and abetting one
of the king's enemies, to say nought of brawling and assaulting the city watch."

The woman found in the house had also been brought up, but no precise charge was made against
her. The court was crowded, for Andrew, in his wrath at being unable to obtain Ronald's release,
had not been backward in publishing his grievance, and many of his neighbours were present
to hear this strange charge against Ronald Leslie.

The wounded constable and another first gave their evidence.

"I myself can confirm what has been said," Mr. M'Whirtle remarked, "seeing that I was present
with the watch to see the arrest of a person against whom a warrant had been issued."

"Who is that person?" Ronald asked. "Seeing that I am charged with aiding and abetting his
escape it seems to me that I have a right to know who he is."

The magistrates looked astounded at the effrontery of the question, but after a moment's consultation
together Mr. M'Whirtle said that in the interest of justice it was unadvisable at the present
moment to state the name of the person concerned.

"What have you to say, prisoner, to the charge made against you? In consideration of our good
friend Bailie Anderson, known to be a worthy citizen and loyal subject of his majesty, we would
be glad to hear what you have to say anent this charge."

"I have nothing to say," Ronald replied quietly. "Being in the house when it was attacked,
with as much noise as if a band of Border ruffians were at the gate, I stood on the defence.
I demanded to see what warrant they had for forcing an entry, and as they would show me none,
I did my best to protect the house; but the moment Mr. M'Whirtle proclaimed who he was I lowered
my sword and gave them passage."

There was a smile in the court at the boy's coolness.

"But how came ye there, young sir? How came ye to be in the house at all, if ye were there
for a good motive?"

"That I decline to say," Ronald answered. "It seems to me that any one may be in a house by
the consent of its owners, without having to give his reasons therefor."

"It will be the worse for you if you defy the court. I ask you again how came you there?"

"I have no objection to tell you how I came there," Ronald said. "I was walking on the old
wall, which, as you know, runs close by the house, when I saw an ill looking loon hiding himself
as if watching the house, looking behind I saw another ruffianly looking man there." Two gasps
of indignation were heard from the porch at the back of the court. "Thinking that there was
mischief on hand I leapt from the wall to the dormer window to warn the people of the house
that there were ill doers who had designs upon the place, and then remained to see what came
of it. That is the simple fact."

There was an exclamation of incredulity from the magistrates.

"If you doubt me," Ronald said, "you can send a man to the wall. I felt my feet loosen a tile
and it slid down into the gutter."

One of the magistrates gave an order, and two of the watch left the court.

"And who did you find in the house?"

"I found this good woman, and sorely frightened she was when I told her what kind of folk were
lurking outside."

"And was there anyone else there?"

"There was a man there," Ronald said quietly, "and he seemed alarmed too."

"What became of him?"

"I cannot say for certain," Ronald replied; "but if you ask my opinion I should say, that having
no stomach for meeting people outside, he just went out the way I came in, especially as I
heard the worshipful magistrate say that a board in the attic had been lifted."

The magistrates looked at each other in astonishment; the mode of escape had not occurred to
any, and the disappearance of the fugitive was now explained.

"I never heard such a tale," one of the magistrates said after a pause. "It passes belief that
a lad, belonging to the family of a worthy and respectable citizen, a bailie of the city and
one who stands well with his fellow townsmen, should take a desperate leap from the wall through
a window of a house where a traitor was in hiding, warn him that the house was watched, and
give him time to escape while he defended the stairs. Such a tale, sure, was never told in
a court. What say you, bailie?"

"I can say nought," Andrew said. "The boy is a good boy and a quiet one; given to mischief
like other boys of his age, doubtless, but always amenable. What can have possessed him to
behave in such a wild manner I cannot conceive, but it seems to me that it was but a boy's freak."

"It was no freak when he ran his sword through Peter Muir's shoulder," Mr. M'Whirtle said.
"Ye will allow that, neighbour Anderson."

"The man must have run against the sword," the bailie said, "seeing the boy scarce knows one
end of a weapon from another."

"You are wrong there, bailie," one of the constables said; "for I have seen him many a time
going into the school of James Macklewain, and I have heard a comrade say, who knows James,
that the lad can handle a sword with the best of them."

"I will admit at once," Ronald said, "that I have gone to Macklewain's school and learned fencing
of him. My father, Colonel Leslie of Glenlyon, was a gentleman, and it was right that I should
wield a sword, and James Macklewain, who had fought in the French wars and knew my father,
was good enough to teach me. I may say that my guardian knew nothing of this."

"No, indeed," Andrew said. "I never so much as dreamt of it. If I had done so he and I would
have talked together to a purpose."

"Leslie of Glenlyon was concerned in the '15, was he not?" Mr. M'Whirtle said; "and had to
fly the country; and his son seems to be treading in his steps, bailie. I doubt ye have been
nourishing a viper in your bosom."

At this moment the two constables returned, and reported that certainly a tile was loose as
the prisoner had described, and there were scratches as if of the feet of someone entering
the window, but the leap was one that very few men would undertake.

"Your story is so far confirmed, prisoner; but it does not seem to us that even had you seen
two men watching a house it would be reasonable that you would risk your neck in this way without
cause. Clearly you have aided and abetted a traitor to escape justice, and you will be remanded.
I hope, before you are brought before us again, you will make up your mind to make a clean
breast of it, and throw yourself on the king's mercy."

Ronald was accordingly led back to the cell, the bailie being too much overwhelmed with surprise
at what he had heard to utter any remonstrance.

CHAPTER III: Free.

After Ronald had been removed from the court the woman was questioned. She asserted that her
master was away, and was, she believed, in France, and that in his absence she often let lodgings
to strangers. That two days before, a man whom she knew not came and hired a room for a few
days. That on the evening before, hearing a noise in the attic, she went up with him, and met
Ronald coming down stairs. That when Ronald said there were strange men outside the house,
and when immediately afterwards there was a great knocking at the door, the man drew his sword
and ordered her to come up stairs with him. That he then made her assist him to pull up a plank,
and thrust it from the attic to the wall, and ordered her to replace it when he had gone. She
supposed he was a thief flying from justice, but was afraid to refuse to do his bidding.

"And why did you not tell us all this, woman, when we came in?" Mr. M'Whirtle asked sternly.
"Had ye told us we might have overtaken him."

"I was too much frightened," the woman answered. "There were swords out and blood running,
and men using words contrary both to the law and Scripture. I was frighted enough before, and
I just put my apron over my head and sat down till the hubbub was over. And then as no one
asked me any questions, and I feared I might have done wrong in aiding a thief to escape, I
just held my tongue."

No cross questioning could elicit anything further from the woman, who indeed seemed frightened
almost out of her senses, and the magistrate at last ordered her to return to the house and
remain there under the supervision of the constable until again sent for.

Andrew Anderson returned home sorely disturbed in his mind. Hitherto he had told none, even
of his intimates, that the boy living in his house was the son of Colonel Leslie, but had spoken
of him as the child of an old acquaintance who had left him to his care. The open announcement
of Ronald that he was the son of one of the leaders in the last rebellion, coming just as it
did when the air was thick with rumours of another rising, troubled him greatly; and there
was the fact that the boy had, unknown to him, been learning fencing; and lastly this interference,
which had enabled a notorious emissary of the Pretender to escape arrest.

"The boy's story may be true as far as it goes," he said to his wife when relating to her the
circumstances, "for I have never known him to tell a lie; but I cannot think it was all the
truth. A boy does not take such a dreadful leap as that, and risk breaking his neck, simply
because he sees two men near the house. He must somehow have known that man was there, and
went to give him warning. Now I think of it, he passed through the shop when Peter M'Whirtle
was talking to me about it, though, indeed, he did not know then where the loon was in hiding.
The boy went out soon afterwards, and must somehow have learned, if indeed he did not know
before. Janet, I fear that you and I have been like two blind owls with regard to the boy,
and I dread sorely that my brother Malcolm is at the bottom of all this mischief."

This Mrs. Anderson was ready enough to credit, but she was too much bewildered and horrified
to do more than to shake her head and weep.

"Will they cut off his head, Andrew?" she asked at last.

"No, there's no fear of that; but they may imprison him for a bit, and perhaps give him a good
flogging -- the young rascal. But there, don't fret over it, Janet. I will do all I can for
him. And in truth I think Malcolm is more to blame than he is; and we have been to blame too
for letting the lad be so much with him, seeing that we might be sure he would put all sorts
of notions in the boy's head."

"But what is to be done, Andrew? We cannot let the poor lad remain in prison."

"We have no choice in the matter, Janet. In prison he is, and in prison he has to remain until
he is let out, and I see no chance of that. If it had only been a brawl with the watch it could
have been got over easily enough; but this is an affair of high treason -- aiding and abetting
the king's enemies, and the rest of it. If it were in the old times they would put the thumb
screws on him to find out all he knew about it, for they will never believe he risked his life
in the plot; and the fact that his father before him was in arms for the Chevalier tells that
way. I should not be surprised if an order comes for him to be sent to London to be examined
by the king's councillors; but I will go round now and ask the justices what they think of
the matter."

His tidings when he returned were not encouraging; the general opinion of the magistrates being
that Ronald was certainly mixed up in the Jacobite plot, that the matter was altogether too
serious to be disposed of by them, being of the nature of high treason, and that nothing could
be done until instructions were received from London. No clue had been obtained as to the whereabouts
of the man who had escaped, and it was thought probable that he had at once dropped beyond
the walls and made for the west.

Malcolm arrived ten days later from a journey in Lancashire, and there was a serious quarrel
between him and Andrew on his presenting himself at the house.

"It is not only that you led the lad into mischief, Malcolm, but that you taught him to do
it behind my back."

"You may look at it in that way if you will, Andrew, and it's natural enough from your point
of view; but I take no blame to myself You treated the boy as if he had been your son, and
I thank you with all my heart for your kindness to him; but I could not forget Leslie of Glenlyon,
and I do not blame myself that I have kept the same alive in his mind also. It was my duty
to see that the young eagle was not turned into a barn door fowl; but I never thought he was
going to use his beak and his claws so soon."

"A nice thing you will have to tell his father, that owing to your teachings his son is a prisoner
in the Tower, maybe for life. But there -- there's no fear of that. You will never have to
render that account, for there's no more chance of your ever hearing more of him than there
is of my becoming king of Scotland. It's bad enough that you have always been a ne'er do well
yourself without training that unfortunate boy to his ruin."

"Well, well, Andrew, I will not argue with you, and I don't blame you at being sore and angry
over the matter; nor do I deny what you have said about myself; it's true enough, and you might
say worse things against me without my quarreling with ye over it. However, the less said the
better. I will take myself off and think over what's to be done."

"You had better come up and have your supper with us," Andrew said, mollified by his brother's
humility.

"Not for twenty golden guineas, Andrew, would I face Mistress Janet. She has borne with me
well, though I know in her heart she disapproves of me altogether; but after this scrape into
which I have got the boy I daren't face her. She might not say much, but to eat with her eye
upon me would choke me."

Malcolm proceeded at once to the establishment of his friend Macklewain.

"This is a nice kettle of fish, Malcolm, about young Leslie. I have had the justices down here,
asking me all sorts of questions, and they have got into their minds that I taught him not
only swordplay but treason, and they have been threatening to put me in the stocks as a vagabond;
but I snapped my fingers in their faces, saying I earned my money as honestly as they did,
and that I concern myself in no way in politics, but teach English officers and the sons of
Glasgow tradesmen as well as those of Highland gentlemen. They were nicely put out, I can tell
you; but I didn't care for that, for I knew I was in the right of it. But what on earth made
the young cock meddle in this matter? How came he to be mixed up in a Jacobite plot? Have you
got your finger in it?"

"Not I, James; and how it happens that he is concerned in it is more than I can guess. I know,
of course, his heart is with the king over the water; but how he came to get his hand into
the pie is altogether beyond me."

"The people here are well nigh mad about it. I know not who the gallant who has escaped is;
but it is certain that his capture was considered a very important one, and that the justices
here expected to have gained no small credit by his arrest, whereas now they will be regarded
as fools for letting him slip through their fingers."

"I cannot for the life of me make out how he came to be mixed up in such a matter. No one but
you and I could have known that he was a lad of mettle, who might be trusted in such a business.
It can hardly be that they would have confided any secrets to him; still, the fact that he
was in the house with the man they are in search of, and that he drew and risked his life and
certain imprisonment to secure his escape, shows that he must have been heart and soul in the
plot."

"And what do you think of doing, Malcolm?"

"I shall get him out somehow. I can lay hands on a score or two or more of our old comrades
here in Glasgow, and I doubt not that they will all strike a blow with me for Leslie's son,
to say nothing of his being a follower of the Stuarts."

"You are not thinking, man, of attacking the jail! That would be a serious matter. The doors
are strong, and you would have the soldiers, to say nought of the town guard and the citizens,
upon you before you had reached him."

"No, no, James, I am thinking of no such foolishness. I guess that they will not be trying
him for withstanding the watch, that's but a small matter; they will be sending him south for
the king's ministers to get out of him what he knows about the Jacobite plot and the names
of all concerned, and it's upon the road that we must get him out of their hands. Like enough
they will only send four troopers with him, and we can easily master them somewhere in the dales."

"It's more like, Malcolm, they will send him by ship. They will know well enough that if the
lad knows aught there will be plenty whose interest it is to get him out of their hands. I
think they will take the safer way of putting him on board ship."

"Like enough they will," Malcolm agreed, "and in that case it will be a harder job than I deemed
it. But at any rate I mean to try. Ronald's not the lad to turn traitor; he will say nothing
whatever they do to him, you may be sure, and he may lie for years in an English prison if
we do not get him out of their hands before he gets there. At any rate what we have got to
do now is to mark every ship in the port sailing for London, and to find out whether passages
are taken for a prisoner and his guard in any of them. I will make that my business, and between
times get a score of trusty fellows together in readiness to start if they should send him
by land; but I doubt not that you are right, and that he will be taken off by ship."

The days of waiting passed slowly to Ronald, and Andrew Anderson once or twice obtained permission
to see him. The bailie wisely abstained from any reproaches, and sought only to persuade him
to make a clean breast of the business, and to tell all he knew about a plot which could but
end in failure and ruin to all concerned. Although his belief in Ronald's truthfulness was
great he could not credit that the story which he had told contained all the facts of the matter.
To the bailie it seemed incredible that merely from an abstract feeling in favour of the Stuarts
Ronald would have risked his life and liberty in aiding the escape of a Jacobite agent, unless
he was in some way deeply involved in the plot; and he regarded Ronald's assurances to the
contrary as the outcome of what he considered an entirely mistaken sense of loyalty to the
Stuart cause.

"It's all very well, Ronald," he said, shaking his head sadly; "but when they get you to London
they will find means to make you open your mouth. They have done away with the thumb screws
and the rack, but there are other ways of making a prisoner speak, and it would be far better
for you to make a clean breast of it at once. Janet is grieving for you as if you were her
own son, and I cannot myself attend to my business. Who would have thought that so young a
lad should have got himself mixed up in such sair trouble!"

"I have really told you all, bailie, though you will not believe me, and I am sorry indeed
for the trouble I have brought upon you and my aunt" -- for Ronald had from the first been
taught to address the bailie and his wife as if Malcolm Anderson had been his real father;
"anyhow I wish they would settle it. I would rather know the worst than go on from day to day
expecting something that never happens."

"You have to wait, Ronald, till word comes from London. If they write from there that your
case can be dealt with merely for the assault upon the watch I can promise you that a few weeks
in jail are all that you are like to have; but I fear that there is little chance of that.
They are sure to send for you to London, and whether you will ever come back alive the gude
Lord only knows. We know what came of treason thirty years ago, and like enough they will be
even more severe now, seeing that they will hold that folks have all the less right to try
and disturb matters so long settled."

"Have you seen Malcolm?" Ronald asked, to change the conversation.

"Ay, lad, I have seen him, and the meeting was not altogether a pleasant one for either of us."

"I hope you have not quarrelled with him on my account!" Ronald said eagerly.

"We have not exactly quarrelled, but we have had words. I could not but tell him my opinion
as to his learning you to take such courses, but we parted friends; but I doubt it will be
long before Janet can see him with patience."

The jailer, who was present at the interview, here notified that the bailie's time was up.

"I shall see you again, Ronald, before they take you south. I would that I could do more to
help you besides just coming to see you."

"I know you cannot, uncle. I have got into the scrape and must take the consequences; but if
I were placed in the same position I should do it again."

A few days afterwards, as he was eating his ration of prison bread, Ronald found in it a small
pellet of paper, and on opening it read the words: "Keep up your courage, friends are at work
for you. You will hear more yet of M. A."

Ronald was glad to know that his old friend was thinking of him, but, knowing how strong was
the prison, he had little hopes that Malcolm would be able to effect anything to help him.
Still the note gave him comfort.

Three days later Andrew called again to bid him goodbye, telling him that orders had been received
from London that he was to be sent thither by ship.

"I should like to have seen Malcolm before I went, if I could," Ronald said.

"I have not seen him for several days," the bailie said. "I have sent down several times to
the house where he lodges, but he is always away; but, whether or no, there would be no chance
of your seeing him. I myself had difficulty in getting leave to see you, though a bailie and
known to be a loyal citizen. But Malcolm knows that there would be no chance of one with such
a character as his getting to see you, and that it would draw attention to him even to ask
such a thing, which, if he has a hand in this mad brain plot, he would not wish."

"Malcolm would not mind a straw whether they kept a watch on him or not," Ronald said. "Will
you tell him, when you see him next, that I got his message?"

"What message? I have given you no message that I know of."

"He will know what I mean. Tell him, whether aught comes of it or not I thank him, and for
all his kindness to me, as I do you and Aunt Janet."

At the same time with the order that Ronald should be sent to London the authorities of Glasgow
received an intimation that the ministers felt great surprise at the lukewarmness which had
been shown in allowing so notorious and important an enemy of his majesty to escape, and that
the king himself had expressed marked displeasure at the conduct of the city authorities in
the matter. Greatly mortified at the upshot of an affair from which they had hoped to obtain
much credit from government, and believing it certain that there were many greatly interested
in getting Ronald out of the hands of his captors, the authorities took every precaution to
prevent it. He was taken down to the river side under a strong escort, and in addition to the
four warders who were to be in charge of the prisoner as far as London, they put on board twelve
men of the city guard. These were to remain with the ship until she was well out at sea, and
then to return in a boat which the vessel was to row behind her.

Ronald could not but smile when he saw all these formidable preparations for his safety. At
the same time he felt that any hope he had entertained that Malcolm might, as the message hinted,
make an attempt at rescue were blighted. The vessel dropped down with the tide. The orders
of the justices had been so strict and urgent that the whole of the men placed on board kept
a vigilant watch.

Just as they were abreast of Dumbarton the sound of oars was heard, and presently a boat was
seen approaching. As it got nearer two men were seen to be rowing, and two others seated in
the stern; but as the craft was a large one there was room for others to be lying in the bottom.
The constable in charge shouted to the boat to keep them off.

"Stop rowing," he cried, "and come no nearer. If you do we fire, and as I don't want to shed
your blood I warn you that I have sixteen armed men here."

As his words were emphasized by the row of men, who with levelled muskets ranged themselves
along at the side of the ship, the boat ceased rowing.

"What are you afraid of?" one of the men in the stern shouted. "Cannot a fisherman's boat row
out without being threatened with shooting? What are you and your sixteen armed men doing on
board? Are you expecting a French fleet off the coast? And do you think you will beat them
off if they board you? How long have the Glasgow traders taken to man their ships with fighting
men?"

Ronald was in the cabin under the poop; it opened on to the waist, and received its light from
an opening in the door, at which two armed men had stationed themselves when the boat was heard
approaching. Had the cabin possessed a porthole through which he could have squeezed himself
he would long before have jumped overboard and tried to make his escape by swimming under cover
of the darkness. He now strove to force the door open, for he recognized Malcolm's voice, and
doubted not that his friend had spoken in order to let him know that he was there, that he
might if possible leap over and swim to the boat; but it was fastened strongly without, and
the guards outside shouted that they would fire unless he remained quiet.

No reply was made to the taunts of the man in the boat, and slowly, for the wind was but just
filling her sails, the vessel dropped down the river, and the boat was presently lost sight of.

In the morning the breeze freshened. It was not till the ship was eight miles beyond the mouth
of the river that the boat was pulled up alongside, and the guard, taking their places on board,
hoisted sail and started on their return to Glasgow.

Once fairly at sea Ronald was allowed to leave his cabin. Now that he was enjoying the fresh
air his spirits soon recovered the tone which they had lost somewhat during his three weeks'
confinement in prison, and he thoroughly enjoyed his voyage. The man who was in charge of the
guard had at first wished to place some restriction on his going about on board as he chose;
but the crew sided with the young prisoner, and threw such ridicule on the idea that four warders
and a head constable were afraid, even for a moment, to lose sight of a boy on board a ship
at sea, that he gave way, and allowed Ronald free liberty of action, although he warned his
subordinates that they must nor relax their caution for a moment.

"The crew are all with him. They think it a shame that a lad like this should be hauled to
London as a prisoner charged with treasonable practices; and sailors, when they once get an
idea into their head, are as obstinate as Highland cattle. I have told them that he drew a
sword and held the staircase against us all while a noted traitor made his escape, and that
he ran one of us through the shoulder, and they only shouted with laughter, and said he was
a brave young cock. Like as not, if they had a chance, these men would aid him to escape, and
then we should have to answer for it, and heavily too; loss of place and imprisonment would
be the least of what we might expect; so though, while at sea and in full daylight he can do
as he pleases, we must be doubly vigilant at night, or in port if the vessel should have to
put in."

Accordingly, to the great disgust of the sailors the watch by turns stood sentry outside Ronald's
door at night, thereby defeating a plan which the sailors had formed of lowering a boat the
first night they passed near land, and letting Ronald make his escape to shore.

The wind was favourable until the vessel rounded the Land's End. After that it became baffling
and fickle, and it was more than three weeks after the date of her sailing from Glasgow that
the vessel entered the mouth of the Thames. By this time Ronald's boyish spirits had allayed
all suspicion on the part of his guards. He joked with the sailors, climbed about the rigging
like a cat, and was so little affected by his position that the guards were convinced that
he was free from the burden of any state secret, and that no apprehension of any serious consequence
to himself was weighing upon him.

"Poor lad!" the head warder said; "he will need all his spirits. He will have hard work to
make the king's council believe that he interfered in such a matter as this from pure love
of adventure. He will have many a weary month to pass in prison before they free him, I reckon.
It goes against my heart to hand over such a mere laddie as a prisoner; still it is no matter
of mine. I have my duty to do, and it's not for me to question the orders I have received,
or to argue whether a prisoner is innocent or guilty."

As the vessel anchored off Gravesend to wait for the turn of the tide to take her up, a boat
rowed by a waterman, and with a man sitting in the stern, passed close by the ship. The head
warder had now redoubled his vigilance, and one of the guards with loaded musket was standing
on the deck not far from Ronald, who was standing on the taffrail. As the boat passed some
twenty yards astern of the ship the man who was not rowing turned round for a moment and looked
up at Ronald. It was but a momentary glance that the lad caught of his face, and he suppressed
with difficulty a cry of surprise, for he recognized Malcolm Anderson. The rower continued
steadily to ply his oars, and continued his course towards another ship anchored lower down
the river. Ronald stood watching the boat, and saw that after making a wide sweep it was rowed
back again to Gravesend.

Ronald had no doubt that Malcolm had come south in hopes of effecting his escape, and guessed
that he had taken up his post at Gravesend with the intention of examining every ship as she
passed up until the one in which he knew he had sailed made its appearance. What his next step
would be he could not tell; but he determined to keep a vigilant lookout, and to avail himself
instantly of any opportunity which might offer.

As the captain did nor care about proceeding up the river after dark it was not until the tide
turned, just as morning broke, that the anchor was weighed. There was a light breeze which
just sufficed to give the vessel steerage way, and a mist hung on the water. Ronald took his
favourite seat on the taffrail, and kept a vigilant watch upon every craft which seemed likely
to come near the vessel.

Greenwich was passed, and the vessel presently approached the crowded part of the Pool. It
was near high tide now, and the captain was congratulating himself that he should just reach
a berth opposite the Tower before it turned. Presently a boat with two rowers shot out from
behind a tier of vessels and passed close under the stern of the Glasgow Lass. A man was steering
whom Ronald instantly recognized.

"Jump!" he cried, and Ronald without a moment's hesitation leaped from the taffrail.

He came up close to the boat, and was instantly hauled on board by Malcolm. Just at that moment
the guard, who had stood stupefied by Ronald's sudden action, gave a shout of alarm and discharged
his piece. The ball struck the boat close to Ronald. It was already in motion; the men bent
to their oars, and the boat glided towards the Surrey side of the river. Loud shouts arose
from on board the vessel, and four bullets cut the water round the boar; but before the muskets
could be reloaded Malcolm had steered the boat through a tier of vessels, whose crews, attracted
by the firing, cheered the fugitives lustily.

A minute later they had reached some landing steps. Malcolm tossed some money to the rowers,
and then sprang ashore with Ronald, and handed the latter a long coat which would reach to
his heels and conceal the drenched state of his clothing from notice.

"We have tricked them nicely, dear boy," he said; "we are safe now. Long before they can lower
a boat and get here we shall be safe in shelter, and our five Glasgow bodies will have something
to do to look for us here."

Moderating his pace so as to avoid attracting attention, Malcolm proceeded along several streets
and lanes, and presently stopped at the door of a little shop.

"I am lodging here," he said, "and have told the people of the house that I am expecting a
nephew back from a cruise in the Mediterranean."

As he passed through the shop he said to the woman behind the counter:

"Here he is safe and sound. He's been some days longer than I expected, but I was nor so very
far wrong in my calculations. The young scamp has had enough of the sea, and has agreed to
go back again with me to his own people."

"That's right," the woman said. "My own boy ran away two years ago, and I hope he will have
come to his senses by the time he gets back again."

When they were together in their room up stairs Malcolm threw his arms round Ronald's neck.

"Thank God, my dear boy, I have got you our of the clutches of the law! You do not know how
I have been fretting since I heard you were caught, and thought that if ill came to you it
would be all my fault. And now tell me how you got into this scrape, for it has been puzzling
me ever since I heard it. Surely when I saw you last you knew nothing about any Jacobite goings
on?"

Ronald related the whole particulars of his adventure, and said that even now he was absolutely
ignorant who was the man whom he had aided to escape.

"I know no more than you do, Ronald, but they must have thought his capture an important one
by the fuss they made over his escape. And now, to think that you have slipped out of their
hands too!" and Malcolm broke into a loud laugh. "I would give a month's earnings to see the
faces of the guard as they make their report that they have arrived empty handed. I was right
glad when I saw you. I was afraid you might have given them the slip on the way, and then there
would have been no saying when we might have found each other again."

"The sailors would have lowered a boat at night and let me make for the land," Ronald said,
"but there was a good guard kept over me. The door was locked and a sentry always on watch,
and I had quite given up all hope until I saw you at Gravesend. And now, what do you intend
to do? Make our way back to Scotland?"

"No, no, lad, that would never do. There will be a hue and cry after you, and all the northern
routes will be watched. No, I shall make a bargain with some Dutch skipper to take us across
the water, and then we will make our way to Paris."

"But have you got money, Malcolm?"

"I have got your purse, lad. I went to Andrew and said that I wanted it for you, but that he
was to ask no questions, so that whatever came of it he could say that he knew nothing. He
gave it me at once, saying only:

"'Remember, Malcolm, you have done the boy some harm already with your teaching, see that you
do him no further harm. I guess you are bent on some hare brained plan, but whatever it be
I wish you success.'"

CHAPTER IV: In France.

The next day Malcolm went out alone, and on his return told Ronald that there were placards
on the walls offering a reward of a hundred pounds for his apprehension.

"You don't think the people below have any suspicion, Malcolm?"

"Not they," Malcolm replied. "I was telling them last night after you had gone to bed all about
the places you have been voyaging to, and how anxious your father, a snug farmer near Newcastle,
was to have you back again. I had spoken to them before so as to prepare them for your coming,
and the old woman takes quite an interest in you, because her son at sea is a lad just about
your age. I have brought you in a suit of sailor clothes; we will go down and have a chat with
them after the shop is closed of a night. You will remember Newcastle and the farm, and can
tell them of your escape from Greek pirates, and how nearly you were taken by a French frigate
near the straits."

The consternation of the watch at Ronald's escape was extreme. The shot which the man on guard
had fired was their first intimation of the event, and seizing their muskets they had hastily
discharged them in the direction of the fugitive, and had then shouted for a boat to be lowered.
But never was a boat longer getting into the water than was that of the Glasgow Lass upon this
occasion. The captain gave his orders in a leisurely way, and the crew were even slower in
executing them. Then somehow the fall stuck and the boat wouldn't lower. When at last she was
in the water it was found that the thole pins were missing; these being found she was rowed
across the river, the five constables undergoing a running fire of jokes and hilarity from
the sailors of the ships they passed near. In answer to their inquiries where the fugitives
landed, some of the sailors shouted that she had pulled up the river behind the tier of vessels,
others insisted that she had sunk with all hands close by.

Completely bewildered, the chief of the party told the sailors to put them ashore at the first
landing. When the party gained the streets they inquired eagerly of all they met whether they
had seen aught of the fugitives. Few of those they questioned understood the broad Scotch in
which the question was asked, others laughed in their faces and asked how they were to know
the man and boy they wanted from any others; and after vainly looking about for some time they
returned to the stairs, only to find that the boat had returned to the ship.

A waterman's boat was now hired, and the rower, who had heard what had happened, demanded a
sum for putting them on board which horrified them; but at last, after much bargaining, they
were conveyed back to the ship. An hour later the chief of the party went ashore, and repairing
to the Tower, where he had been ordered to conduct the prisoner, reported his escape. He was
at once taken into custody on the charge of permitting the escape of his prisoner, and it was
not until three days later, upon the evidence of his men and of the captain and officers of
the ship, that he was released.

His four men were put on board a ship returning to Glasgow next day, while he himself was kept
to identify the fugitive should he be caught.

A week later Malcolm told Ronald that he had made arrangements with the captain of a Dutch
vessel to take them over to Holland.

"We are to go on board at Gravesend," he said, "for they are searching all ships bound for
foreign ports. It is not for you especially, but there are supposed to be many Jacobites going
to and fro, and they will lay hands on anyone who cannot give a satisfactory account of himself.
So it is just as well for us to avoid questioning."

Accordingly the next day they walked down to Gravesend, and taking boat there boarded the Dutch
vessel when she came along on the following day. The Dutch captain received them civilly; he
had been told by Malcolm that they wished to leave the country privately, and guessed that
they were in some way fugitives from the law, but as he was to be well paid this gave him no
concern. There were no other passengers, and a roomy cabin was placed at their disposal. They
passed down the river without impediment, and anchored that night off Sheerness.

"These Dutch traders are but slow craft," Malcolm said as he walked impatiently up and down
the deck next morning, watching the slow progress which they made past the shore. "I wish we
could have got a passage direct to France, but of course that is impossible now the two nations
are at war."

"What is the war about, Malcolm? I heard at home that they were fighting, but yet that somehow
the two countries were not at war."

"No, I don't know how that comes about," Malcolm said. "England has a minister still at Paris;
but for all that King George is at the head of a number of British troops in Germany fighting
against the French there."

"But what is it about, Malcolm?"

"Well, it is a matter which concerns Hanover more than England; in fact England has no interest
in the matter at all as far as I can see, except that as France takes one side she takes the
other, because she is afraid of France getting too strong. However, it is a German business,
and England is mixed up in it only because her present king is a Hanoverian and not an Englishman.
This is the matter as far as I can make it out. Charles VI., Emperor of Germany, died in October,
1740. It had been arranged by a sort of general agreement called the Pragmatic Sanction --"

"What an extraordinary name, Malcolm! What does it mean?"

"I have not the least idea in the world, lad. However, that is what it is called. It was signed
by a lot of powers, of whom England was one, and by it all parties agreed that Charles's daughter
Maria Theresa was to become Empress of Austria. However, when the emperor was dead the Elector
of Bavaria claimed to be emperor, and he was supported by France, by Spain, and by Frederick
of Prussia, and they marched to Vienna, enthroned the elector as Duke of Austria, and drove
Maria Theresa to take refuge in Hungary, where she was warmly supported.

"The English parliament voted a large sum to enable the empress to carry on the war, and last
year sixteen thousand men under the Earl of Stair crossed the seas to cooperate with the Dutch,
who were warm supporters of the empress, and were joined by six thousand Hessians and sixteen
thousand Hanoverians in British pay; but after all nothing was done last year, for as in the
last war the Dutch were not ready to begin, and the English army were in consequence kept idle."

"Then it seems that everyone was against the empress except England and these three little states."

"That is pretty nearly so," Malcolm said; "but at present the empress has bought off the Prussians,
whose king joined in the affair solely for his own advantage, by giving him the province of
Silesia, so that in fact at present it is England and Hanover, which is all the same thing,
with the Dutch and Hessians, against France and Bavaria, for I don't think that at present
Spain has sent any troops."

"Well, it seems to me a downright shame," Ronald said indignantly; "and though I have no great
love for the English, and hate their Hanoverian George and his people, I shouldn't like to
fight with one of the Scotch regiments in the French service in such a quarrel."

Malcolm laughed.

"My dear lad, if every soldier were to discuss the merits of the quarrel in which he is ordered
to fight there would be an end of all discipline."

"Yes, I see that," Ronald agreed; "if one is once a soldier he has only to obey orders. But
one need not become a soldier just at the time when he would be called upon to fight for a
cause which he considers unjust."

"That is so, Ronald, and it's fortunate, if your feelings are in favour of Maria Theresa, that
we are not thinking of enlisting just at present, for you would be puzzled which side to take.
If you fought for her you would have to fight under the Hanoverian; if you fight against the
Hanoverian you are fighting against Maria Theresa."

"Well, we don't want to fight at all," Ronald said. "What we want to do is to find out something
about my father. I wish the voyage was at an end, and that we had our faces towards Paris."

"It will not be so easy to cross from Holland into France," Malcolm said. "I wish our voyage
was at an end for another reason, for unless I mistake there is a storm brewing up."

Malcolm's prediction as to the weather was speedily verified. The wind rose rapidly, ragged
clouds hurried across the sky, and the waves got up fast, and by nightfall the sea had become
really heavy, dashing in sheets high in the air every time the bluff bowed craft plunged into
it. Long before this Ronald had gone below prostrate with seasickness.

"It's just like the obstinacy of these Dutchmen," Malcolm muttered to himself as he held on
by a shroud and watched the labouring ship. "It must have been clear to anyone before we were
well out of the river that we were going to have a gale, and as the wind then was nearly due
south, we could have run back again and anchored in shelter till it was over. Now it has backed
round nearly into our teeth, with every sign of its getting into the north, and then we shall
have the French coast on our lee. It's not very serious yet, but if the wind goes on rising
as it has done for the last four or five hours we shall have a gale to remember before the
morning."

Before the daylight, indeed, a tremendous sea was running, and the wind was blowing with terrible
force from the north. Although under but a rag of canvas the brig was pressed down gunwale
deep, and each wave as it struck her broadside seemed to heave her bodily to leeward. Malcolm
on coming on deck made his way aft and glanced at the compass, and then took a long look over
the foaming water towards where he knew the French coast must lie. The wind was two or three
points east of north, and as the clumsy craft would not sail within several points of the wind
she was heading nearly east.

"She is making a foot to leeward for every one she forges ahead," he said to himself. "If she
has been at this work all night we cannot be far from the coast."

So the Dutch skipper appeared to think, for a few minutes afterwards he gave orders to bring
her about on the other tack. Three times they tried and failed; each time the vessel slowly
came up into the wind, but the heavy waves forced her head off again before the headsails filled.
Then the skipper gave orders to wear her. Her head payed off to the wind until she was nearly
before it. Two or three great seas struck her stern and buried her head deeply, but at last
the boom swung over and her head came up on the other tack. During the course of these manoeuvres
she had made fully two miles leeway, and when she was fairly under sail with her head to the
west Malcolm took another long look towards the south.

"Just as I thought," he said. "There is white water there and a dark line behind it. That is
the French coast, sure enough."

It would have been useless to speak, but he touched the arm of the skipper and pointed to leeward.
The skipper looked in this direction for a minute and then gave the order for more sail to
be put on the ship, to endeavour to beat out in the teeth of the gale. But even when pressed
to the utmost it was evident to Malcolm that the force of the waves was driving her faster
towards the coast than she could make off it, and he went below and told Ronald to come on deck.

"I would rather lie here," Ronald said.

"Nonsense, lad! The wind and spray will soon knock the sickness out of you; and you will want
all your wits about you, for it won't be many hours before we are bumping on the sands, and
stoutly built as the craft is she won't hold together long in such a sea as this."

"Do you really mean it, Malcolm, or are you only trying to get me on deck?"

"I mean it, lad. We are drifting fast upon the French coast, and there is no hope of her clawing
off in the teeth of such a gale as this."

The news aroused Ronald effectually. He had not suffered at all on the voyage down from Glasgow,
and he was already beginning to feel better when Malcolm went down to call him. He was soon
on deck holding on by the bulwark.

"There it is, that long low black line; it looks a long way off because the air is full of
spray and the coast is low, but it's not more than three or four miles; look at that broad
belt of foam."

For some hours the Dutch skipper did his best to beat to windward, but in vain, the vessel
drove nearer and nearer towards the shore; the anchors were got in readiness, and when within
a quarter of a mile of the line of breakers the vessel's head was brought up into the wind,
and the lashings of the two anchors cut simultaneously.

"Will they hold her, do you think?" Ronald asked.

"Not a chance of it, Ronald. Of course the captain is right to try; but no cables were ever
made would hold such a bluff bowed craft as this in the teeth of such a wind and sea."

The cables ran out to the bitts. Just as they tightened a great sea rolled in on the bow. Two
dull reports were heard, and then her head payed off. The jib was run up instantly to help
her round, and under this sail the brig was headed directly towards the shore. The sea was
breaking round them now; but the brig was almost flat bottomed and drew but little water. All
on board hung on to the shrouds and bulwarks, momentarily expecting a crash, but she drove
on through the surf until within a hundred yards of the shore. Then as she went down in the
trough of a wave there was a mighty crash. The next wave swept her forward her own length.

Then there was another crash even more tremendous than the first, and her masts simultaneously
went over the side. The next wave moved her but a few feet; the one which followed, finding
her immovable, piled itself higher over her, and swept in a cataract down her sloping deck.
Her stern had swung round after the first shot, and she now lay broadside to the waves. The
Dutch skipper and his crew behaved with the greatest calmness; the ship lay over at such an
angle that it was impossible to stand on the deck; but the captain managed to get on the upper
rail, and although frequently almost washed off by the seas, contrived to cut the shrouds and
ropes that still attached the masts to the ship there. Then he joined the crew, who were standing
breast high in the water on the lee side, the floating masts were pulled in until within a
few yards of the vessel, and such of the crew as could swim made towards them.

The skipper cut the last rope that bound them, and then plunged in and joined his men. The
distance was little over fifty yards to the shore, and the wreck formed a partial shelter.
A crowd of people were assembled at the edge of the beach with ropes in readiness to give any
assistance in their power. Malcolm and Ronald were among those who had swum to the masts, but
when within a short distance of the shore the former shouted in the latter's ear:

"Swim off, lad, the masts might crush us."

As soon as they neared the shore a number of ropes were thrown. Most of the sailors, seeing
the danger of being crushed, followed the example of Malcolm, and left the masts. Malcolm and
Ronald swam just outside the point where the waves broke until a line fell in the water close
to them. They grasped it at once.

"Give it a twist round your arm," Malcolm shouted, "or the backwash will tear you from it."

The sailors on shore watched their opportunity, and the instant a wave passed beneath the two
swimmers ran up the beach at full speed with the rope. There was a crash. Ronald felt himself
shot forward with great rapidity, then as he touched the ground with his feet they were swept
from under him, and so great was the strain that he felt as if his arm was being pulled from
the socket. A few seconds later he was lying at full length upon the sands, and before the
next wave reached him a dozen men had rushed down and seized him and Malcolm, and carried them
beyond its influence. For a minute or two Ronald felt too bruised and out of breath to move.
Then he heard Malcolm's voice:

"Are you hurt, Ronald?"

"No; I think not, Malcolm," he replied, making an effort to sit up. "Are you?"

"No, lad; bruised a bit, but no worse."

One by one the sailors were brought ashore, one with both legs broken from the force with which
he was dashed down by the surf, and one man who stuck to the mast was crushed to death as it
was rolled over and over on to the beach. The captain and three sailors were, like Malcolm
and Ronald, unhurt. There still remained four men on the wreck. Fortunately she had struck
just at high tide, and so stoutly was she built that she held together in spite of the tremendous
seas, and in an hour the four sailors were able to wade breast high to the shore.

They found that the spot where the vessel had struck was half a mile west of Gravelines. They
were taken to the town, and were hospitably entertained. A small body of soldiers were quartered
there, and the officer in command told the Dutch skipper, that as the two nations were at war
he and his crew must be detained until he received orders respecting them. On learning from
Malcolm that he and Ronald were passengers, and were Scotsmen making their way from England
to escape imprisonment as friends of the Stuarts, and that he had for twelve years served in
one of the Scotch regiments of Louis, and was now bound for Paris, the officer said that they
were free to continue their journey at once.

It was two or three days before they started, for they found the next morning that they were
both too severely bruised to set out at once on the journey. As Malcolm had taken care to keep
the purse containing Ronald's money securely fastened to a belt under his clothes they had
no lack of funds; but as time was no object they started for Paris on foot. Ronald greatly
enjoyed the journey. Bright weather had set in after the storm. It was now the middle of May,
all nature was bright and cheerful, the dresses of the peasantry, the style of architecture
so different to that to which he was accustomed in Scotland, and everything else were new and
strange to him. Malcolm spoke French as fluently as his own language, and they had therefore
no difficulty or trouble on the way.

They arrived at Paris without any adventure. Malcolm went to a cabaret which had at the time
when he was in the French service been much frequented by Scotch soldiers, being kept by a
countryman of their own, an ex-sergeant in one of the Scottish regiments.

"Ah! Sandy Macgregor," Malcolm exclaimed as the proprietor of the place approached to take
their order. "So you are still in the flesh, man! Right glad am I to see you again.

"I know your face," Sandy replied; "but I canna just say what your name might be."

"Malcolm Anderson, of Leslie's Scotch regiment. It's fourteen years since I left them now;
but I was here again four years later, if you can remember, when I came over to try and find
out if aught had been heard of the colonel."

"Ay, ay," Sandy said, grasping Malcolm's outstretched hand warmly. "It all comes back to me
now. Right glad am I to see you. And who is the lad ye have brought with you? A Scot by his
face and bearing, I will be bound, but young yet for the service if that be what he is thinking
of."

"He is the colonel's son, Sandy. You will remember I told you I had carried him back to Scotland
with me; but I need not tell ye that this is betwixt ourselves, for those who have so badly
treated his father might well have a grudge against the son, and all the more that he is the
rightful heir to many a broad acre here in France."

"I give you a hearty welcome, young sir," Sandy said. "Many a time I have seen your brave father
riding at the head of his regiment, and have spoken to him too, for he and his officers would
drop in here and crack a cup together in a room I keep upstairs for the quality. Well, well,
and to think that you are his son! But what Malcolm said is true, and it were best that none
knew who ye are, for they have an unco quick way here of putting inconvenient people out of
the way."

"Have you ever heard aught of my father since?" Ronald asked eagerly.

"Not a word," Sandy replied. "I have heard it talked over scores of times by men who were in
the regiment that was once his, and none doubted that if he were still alive he was lying in
the Bastille, or Vincennes, or one of the other cages where they keep those whose presence
the king or his favourites find inconvenient. It's just a stroke of the pen, without question
or trial, and they are gone, and even their best friends darena ask a question concerning them.
In most cases none know why they have been put away; but there is no doubt why Leslie was seized.
Three or four of his fellow officers were in the secret of his marriage, and when he had disappeared
these talked loudly about it, and there was sair grief and anger among the Scottish regiment
at Leslie's seizure. But what was to be done? It was just the king's pleasure, and that is
enough in France. Leslie had committed the grave offence of thwarting the wishes of two of
the king's favourites, great nobles, too, with broad lands and grand connections. What were
the likings of a Scottish soldier of fortune and a headstrong girl in comparison! In Scotland
in the old times a gallant who had carried off a daughter of a Douglas or one of our powerful
nobles would have made his wife a widow ere many weeks were over, and it is the same thing
here now. It wouldna have been an easy thing for his enemies to kill Leslie with his regiment
at his back, and so they got an order from the king, and as surely got rid of him as if they
had taken his life."

"You have never heard whether my mother has married again?" Ronald asked.

"I have never heard her name mentioned. Her father is still at court, but his daughter has
never been seen since, or I should have heard of it; but more than that I cannot say."

"That gives me hopes that my father is still alive," Ronald said. "Had he been dead they might
have forced her into some other marriage."

"They might so; but she was plainly a lassie who had a will of her own and may have held out."

"But why did they not kill him instead of putting him in prison if he was in their way?"

"They might, as I said, have done it at once; but once in prison he was beyond their reach.
The king may grant a lettre de cachet, as these orders are called, to a favourite; but even
in France men are not put to death without some sort of trial, and even Chateaurouge and De
Recambours could not ask Louis to have a man murdered in prison to gratify their private spite,
especially when that man was a brave Scottish officer whose fate had already excited much discontent
among his compatriots in the king's service. Then again much would depend upon who was the
governor of the prison. These men differ like others. Some of them are honourable gentlemen,
to whom even Louis himself would not venture to hint that he wanted a prisoner put out of the
way; but there are others who, to gratify a powerful nobleman, would think nothing of telling
a jailer to forget a fortnight to give food to a prisoner. So you see we cannot judge from
this. And now what are you thinking of doing, Malcolm, and why are you over here?"

"In the first place we are over here because young Leslie took after his father and aided a
Jacobite, whom George's men were in search of, to escape, and drew his sword on a worshipful
justice of Glasgow and the city watch."

"He has begun early," Sandy said, laughing; "and how did he get away?"

"They brought him down a prisoner to London, to interrogate him as to the plot. I had a boat
in the Thames and he jumped over and swam for it; so here we are. There are rumours in Scotland
that King Louis is helping Prince Charlie, and that an army is soon going to sail for Scotland."

"It is talked of here, but so far nothing is settled; but as King George is interfering in
Louis's affairs, and is fighting him in Germany, I think it more than likely that King Louis
is going to stir up a coil in Scotland to give George something to do at home."

"Then if there's nothing to be done here I shall find out the old regiment. There will be many
officers in it still who have fought under Leslie, and some of them may know more about him
than you do, and will surely be able to tell me what has become of the lad's mither."

"That may well be so; but keep a quiet tongue, Malcolm, as to Leslie's son, save to those on
whose discretion you can rely. I tell you, if it were known that he is alive and in France
his life would not be worth a week's purchase. They would not take the trouble to get a lettre
de cachet for him as they did for his father; it would be just a pistol bullet or a stab on
a dark night or in a lonely place. There would be no question asked about the fate of an unknown
Scotch laddie."

"I will be careful, Sandy, and silent. The first thing is to find out where the old regiment
is lying."

"That I can tell you at once. It is on the frontier with the Duc de Noailles, and they say
that there is like to be a great battle with English George and his army."

"Well, as we have nothing else to do we will set out and find them," Malcolm said; "but as
time is not pressing we will stop a few days here in Paris and I will show the lad the sights.
I suppose you can put us up."

"That can I. Times are dull at present. After '15 Paris swarmed with Scotsmen who had fled
to save their heads; but of late years but few have come over, and the Scotch regiments have
difficulty in keeping up their numbers. Since the last of them marched for the frontier I have
been looking after empty benches, and it will be good news for me when I hear that the war
is over and they are on their way back."

For some days Malcolm and Ronald wandered about the narrow streets of Paris. Ronald was somewhat
disappointed in the city of which he had heard so much. The streets were ill paved and worse
lighted, and were narrow and winding. In the neighbourhood of the Louvre there were signs of
wealth and opulence. The rich dresses of the nobles contrasted strongly indeed with the sombre
attire of the Glasgow citizens, and the appearance and uniform of the royal guards filled him
with admiration; but beyond the fashionable quarter it did not appear to him that Paris possessed
many advantages over Glasgow, and the poorer class were squalid and poverty stricken to a far
greater degree than anything he had seen in Scotland. But the chief points of attraction to
him were the prisons. The Bastille, the Chatelet, and the Temple were points to which he was
continually turning; the two former especially, since, if he were in Paris, it was in one of
these that his father was most probably lying.

The various plans he had so often thought over, by which, in some way or other, he might communicate
with his father and aid his escape, were roughly shattered at the sight of these buildings.
He had reckoned on their resembling in some respect the prison in Glasgow, and at the sight
of these formidable fortresses with their lofty walls and flanking towers, their moats and
vigilant sentries, his hopes fell to zero. It would, he saw at once, be absolutely impossible
to open communication with a prisoner of whose whereabouts he was wholly ignorant and of whose
very existence he was doubtful. The narrow slits which lighted the cell in which he was confined
might look into an inner court, or the cell itself might be below the surface of the soil.
The legend of the troubadour who discovered King Richard of England's place of captivity by
singing without the walls had always been present in his mind, but no such plan would be practicable
here. He knew no song which his father, and his father only, would recognize; and even did
he know such a song, the appearance of anyone loitering in the open space outside the moat
round the Bastille singing at intervals at different points would have instantly attracted
the attention of the sentries on the walls. Nor, even did he discover that his father was lying
a prisoner in one of the cells facing outwards in the fortress, did he see any possibility
of compassing his escape. The slits were wide enough only for the passage of a ray of light
or the flight of an arrow. No human being could squeeze himself through them, and even if he
could do so he would need a long rope to descend into the moat.

One day Ronald talked over his ideas with Malcolm, who declared at once that they were impossible
of execution.

"There is scarcely a case on record," he said, "of an escape from either the Bastille or the
Chatelet, and yet there have been scores of prisoners confined in them with friends of great
influence and abundant means. Look then for one time after the evil-minded of polygamy. It survived
for awhile amid the aged Hebrews. Moses tolerated it for the hardness of their hearts. From the
commencing it was not so. It was a perversion of the aged school of matrimony. All the troubles
of that idolatrous age could not be remedied in a moment; none was made exact until the facade of
that superb counselor—Christ. He repaired the primitive integrity of the wed school by revoking
polygamy and divorce.

Polygamy was not ever congenial to the bodily and mental attribute of its population. It is shown
clearly past the prospect of a suspect that it is debasing and brutalizing. The Turks and Asiatics
are polygamists, but they are much inferior to the aged Greeks and Romans; yet aged Rome was
a long means from Heaven’s will in regard of wed ties.
The matrimonial school of Rome was a compromise between the right
and the wrong.

The school was deliberated in the light-weight of a civilised bond, moved into into for expediency,
and looked after by the magistrates because it was supposed a lucky thing to society; by the
justice of the twelve desks it carried on as long as the enjoyment of the husband. The effect was
that regular, and often, quick succession of splits up and marriages took the position of polygamy,
and ushered in more of its evils.
The personal annals of Roman females of first grade is a succession of marriages and ends wedding
ceremony, each new wedding ceremony giving way to one more recent. Octavia, the female child
of the Emperor Claudus, wed Nero, was rejected by him for the sake
of Poppæa; this woman was first wed to Rufus Crispinus; then to Otho;
and at extent to Nero, by who she was killed.

Nero assassin Thessalina’s husband, and married her for his third wife. Julia, the daughter
of Augustus, was first the wife of Marcellus, afterward the wife of Agrippa, and afterward the
wife of Tiberius.

Such cases are found close to without diagram in the past itemising
of Tacitus.

The distance to which this evil was carried may be scholarly from the poet Martial, any person
who informs us, that, after the Julian law against adultery was rebuilt as a prevention of the corruption
of the times, Thessalina married her tenth husband within thirty
days, consequently avoiding all the restraints which the law caused
against her licentiousness.


Going east our appearance if alone would be sure to incite comment and suspicion. It is hard
if among the soldiers with the convoy I do not know someone who has friends in the old regiment.
At any rate we can offer to make ourselves useful in case of any of the drivers falling ill
or deserting by the way."

As they walked along towards the head of the long line of waggons Malcolm closely scrutinized
the troopers who formed the escort, but most of them were young soldiers, and he therefore
went on without accosting them until he reached the head of the column. Here two officers were
riding together, a captain and a young lieutenant. Malcolm saluted the former.

"I am an old soldier of the 2d Regiment of Scottish Calvary, and am going with my young friend
here, who has relations in the regiment, to join them. Will you permit us, sir, to journey
with your convoy? We are ready, if needs be, to make ourselves useful in case any of your drivers
are missing, no uncommon thing, as I know, on a long journey."

The officer asked a few questions about his services, and said: "What have you been doing since
you left, as you say, fourteen years ago?"

"I have been in Scotland, sir. I took this lad, who was then an infant, home to my people,
having had enough of soldiering, while my brother, his father, remained with the regiment.
We do not know whether he is alive or dead, but if the former the lad wants to join as a trumpeter,
and when old enough to fight in the ranks."

"Very well," the officer said. "You can march along with us, and if any of these fellows desert
you shall take their places, and of course draw their pay."

It was a short time indeed before Malcolm's services were called into requisition, for the
very first night several of the drivers, who had been pressed into the service, managed to
elude the vigilance of the guard and slipped away.

The next morning Malcolm, with Ronald as his assistant, took charge of one of the heavy waggons,
loaded with ammunition, and drawn by twelve horses.

"This is better than walking after all, Ronald. In the first place it saves the legs, and in
the second one is partly out of the dust."

"But I think we should get on faster walking, Malcolm."

"Yes, if we had no stoppages. But then, you see, as we have no papers we might be detained
for weeks by some pig headed official in a little country town; besides, we are sure to push
on as fast as we can, for they will want the ammunition before a battle is fought. And after
all a few days won't make much difference to us; the weather is fine, and the journey will
not be unpleasant."

In fact Ronald enjoyed the next three weeks greatly as the train of waggons made its way across
the plains of Champagne, and then on through the valleys of Lorraine and Alsace until it reached
Strasbourg. Malcolm had speedily made friends with some of the soldiers of the escort, and
of an evening when the day's work was over he and Ronald sat with them by the fires they made
by the roadside, and Malcolm told tales of the campaigns in which he had been engaged, and
the soldiers sang songs and chatted over the probabilities of the events of the war. None of
them had served before, having been but a few months taken from their homes in various parts
of France. But although, doubtless, many had at first regretted bitterly being dragged away
to the wars, they were now all reconciled to their lot, and looked forward eagerly to joining
their regiment, which was at the front, when the duty of looking after the convoy would be
at an end.

Little was known in Paris as to the position of the contending armies beyond the fact that
Lord Stair, who commanded the English army, sixteen thousand strong, which had for the last
year been lying inactive in Flanders, had marched down with his Hanoverian allies towards the
Maine, and that the Duc de Noailles with sixty thousand men was lying beyond the Rhine. But
at Strasbourg they learned that the French army had marched north to give battle to Lord Stair,
who had at present with him but twenty-eight thousand men, and was waiting to be joined by
twelve thousand Hanoverians and Hessians who were on their way.

The convoy continued its journey, pushing forward with all speed, and on the 26th of July joined
the army of De Noailles. The French were on the south side of the river, but having arrived
on its banks before the English they had possession of the bridges. As soon as the waggons
had joined the army, Malcolm obtained from the officer commanding the escort a discharge, saying
that he and Ronald had fulfilled their engagement as drivers with the waggons to the front,
and were now at liberty to return to France.

"Now we are our own masters again, Ronald," Malcolm said. "I have taken part in a good many
battles, but have never yet had the opportunity of looking on at one comfortably. De Noailles
should lose no time in attacking, so as to destroy the English before they receive their reinforcements.
As he holds the bridges he can bring on the battle when he likes, and I think that tomorrow
or next day the fight will take place."

It was known in the camp that evening that the English had established their chief magazines
at Hanau, and were marching up the river towards Aschaffenburg. In the early morning a portion
of the French troops crossed the river at that town, and took up a strong position there. Ronald
and Malcolm climbed a hill looking down upon the river from the south side, and thence commanded
the view of the ground across which the English were marching. On the eastern side of the river
spurs of the Spessart Mountains came down close to its bank, inclosing a narrow flat between
Aschaffenburg and Dettingen. I will not berate you with my opinion on events which must be driven
out of your mind by subsequent events before this information reaches
you. I am certain that if this does not happen, the prophecies may
be falsified before you receive them. While posting a strong force at
Aschaffenburg to hold the passage across a stream running into the Maine there, De Noailles
marched his main force down the river; these movements were hidden by the nature of the ground
from the English, who were advancing unconscious of their danger towards Dettingen.

"De Noailles will have them in a trap," Malcolm said, for from their position on the hill they
could see the whole ground on the further bank, Hanau lying some seven miles beyond Dettingen,
which was itself less than seven miles from Aschaffenburg.

"I am afraid so," Ronald said.

"Afraid!" Malcolm repeated. "Why, you should rejoice, Ronald."

"I can't do that," Ronald replied. "I should like to see the Stuarts instead of the Hanoverians
reigning over us; but after all, Malcolm, England and Scotland are one nation."

"But there are Scotch regiments with the French army, and a brigade of Irish."

"That may be," Ronald said. "Scotchmen who have got into political trouble at home may enter
the service of France, and may fight heartily against the Germans or the Flemings, or other
enemies of France; but I know that I should feel very reluctant to fight against the English
army, except, of course, at home for the Stuarts."

"It will benefit the Stuarts' cause if the English are defeated here," Malcolm said.

"That may be or it may not.," Ronald replied. "You yourself told me that Louis cared nothing
for the Stuarts, and would only aid them in order to cripple the English strength at home.
Therefore, if he destroys the English army here he will have less cause to fear England and
so less motive for helping the Chevalier."

"That is true enough," Malcolm agreed. "You are fast becoming a politician, Ronald. Well, I
will look on as a neutral then, because, although the English are certainly more nearly my
countrymen than are the French, you must remember that for twelve years I fought under the
French flag. However, there can be no doubt what is going to take place. See, the dark mass
of the English army are passing through the defile of Dettingen, and the French have begun
to cross at Seligenstadt in their rear. See, they are throwing three or four bridges across
the river there."

In utter ignorance of their danger the English marched on along the narrow plain by the river
bank towards Aschaffenburg.

"Look at their cavalry scouting ahead of them," Malcolm said. "There, the French are opening
fire!" And as he spoke puffs of musketry rose up from the line of the stream held by the French. 

He is continously searching for the infinite. Mr. Herbert Spencer, applying a scientific rigour
to philosohpy, has found that there is one over reaching emotion in man; a yearning for a
sense of communion with an enduring unchanging reality called the Divine. This quest is more
than a connection with one's fellow man, even though that by itself would be admirable; but for
a connection with the Infinite. Both Spencer and Emerson propose that only by forging that connection
with a Divine Power can man be satisfied.

The lilt of the poet is
the music that can illuminate the search for this unknowable. The
English believed that the entire French army was there opposed to them, and that the advance
of the army into Franconia, which was its main objective was therefore barred. After a short
consultation it was resolved to fall back at once upon the magazines at Hanau, which, from
their ignorance of the near proximity of the French, had been left but weakly guarded. Believing
that as they fell back they would be hotly pursued by the French army, the king took the command
of the rear as the post of danger, and the columns, facing about, marched towards Dettingen.

But the French had been beforehand with them. De Noailles had sent 23,000 men under his nephew
the Duke de Grammont across the river to occupy Dettingen. He himself with his main army remained
on the south side, with his artillery placed so as to fire across the river upon the flank
of the English as they approached Dettingen; while he could march up and cross at Aschaffenburg
should the English, after being beaten back at Dettingen, try to retreat up the river.

De Grammont's position was a very strong one behind a swamp and a deep ravine hollowed out
by a stream from the hill. There seemed no possibility of escape for the English army, who
were as yet absolutely in ignorance of the position of the French. As the head of the column
approached Dettingen, Grammont's artillery opened upon them in front, while that of De Noailles
smote them in flank. As soon as the king found that his retreat was cut off he galloped from
the rear of the column to its head. His horse, alarmed by the fire of the artillery and whistling
of balls, ran away with him, and was with difficulty stopped just as he reached the head of
the column. He at once dismounted and announced his intention of leading his troops on foot.

There was a hasty council held between him, Lord Stair, and the Duke of Cumberland, and it
was agreed that the only escape from entire destruction was by fighting their way through the
force now in front of them. This would indeed have been impossible had De Grammont held his
position; but when that officer saw the English troops halt he believed he had only the advanced
guard in front of him, and resolving to overwhelm these before their main body arrived, he
abandoned his strong position, led the troops across the swamp, and charged the English in front.

De Noailles, from the opposite bank, seeing the error his nephew had made, hurried his troops
towards the bridges in order to cross the river and render him assistance; but it was too late.

The English infantry, headed by the king in person, hurled themselves upon the troops of De
Grammont.

Every man felt that the only hope of escape from this trap into which they had fallen lay in
cutting their way through the enemy, and so furiously did they fight that De Grammont's troops
were utterly overthrown, and were soon in full flight towards the bridges in the rear, hotly
pursued by the English. Before they could reach the bridges they left behind them on the field
six thousand killed and wounded. King George, satisfied with his success, and knowing that
the French army was still greatly superior to his own, wisely determined to get out of his
dangerous position as soon as possible, and pushed on that night to Hanau.

Although Malcolm and Ronald were too far off to witness the incidents of the battle, they made
out the tide of war rolling away from them, and saw the black masses of troops pressing on
through Dettingen in spite of the French artillery which thundered from the opposite bank of
the river.

"They have won!" Ronald said, throwing up his cap. "Hurrah, Malcolm! Where is the utter destruction
of the English now? See, the plain beyond Dettingen is covered by a confused mass of flying
men. The English have broken out of the trap, and instead of being crushed have won a great
victory."

"It looks like it certainly," Malcolm said. "I would not have believed it if I had not seen
it; their destruction seemed certain. And now let us go round to the camp again."

On their way down Malcolm said:

"I think, on the whole, Ronald, that you are perhaps right, and the French defeat will do good
rather than harm to the Stuart cause. Had they conquered, Louis would have been too intent
on pushing forward his own schemes to care much for the Stuarts. He has no real interest in
them, and only uses them as cat's paws to injure England. If he had beaten the English and
Hanoverians he would not have needed their aid. As it is, it seems likely enough that he will
try to create a diversion, and keep the English busy at home by aiding the Stuarts with men
and money to make a landing in Scotland."

"In that case, Malcolm, we need not grieve over the defeat today. You know my sympathies are
with the brave Empress of Austria rather than with her enemies, and this defeat should go far
towards seating her securely on the throne. Now, what will you do, Malcolm? Shall we try and
find my father's friends at once?"

"Nor for another few days," Malcolm said. "Just after a defeat men are not in the best mood
to discuss bygone matters. Let us wait and see what is done next."

The next morning a portion of the French army which had not been engaged crossed the river
and collected the French and English wounded, for the latter had also been left behind. They
were treated by the French with the same care and kindness that was bestowed upon their own
wounded. De Noailles was about to advance against the English at Hanau, when he received the
news that the French army in Bavaria had been beaten back by Prince Charles, and had crossed
the Rhine into Alsace. As he would now be exposed to the whole brunt of the attack of the allies
he decided to retreat at once.

The next day the retreat recommenced. Many of the drivers had fled at the first news of the
defeat, and Malcolm without question assumed the post of driver of one of the abandoned teams.
For another week the army retired, and then crossing the Rhine near Worms were safe from pursuit.

"Now, Ronald, I will look up the old regiment, and we will see what is to be done."

The 2d Scotch Dragoons were posted in a little village a mile distant from the main camp which
had now been formed. Malcolm did nor make any formal transfer of the waggon to the authorities,
thinking it by no means improbable that they would insist upon his continuing his self adopted
avocation as driver; but after seeing to the horses, which were picketed with a long line of
transport animals, he and Ronald walked quietly away without any ceremony of adieu.

"We must not come back again here," he said, "for some of the teamsters would recognize me
as having been driving lately, and I should have hard work to prove that I was not a deserter;
we must take to the old regiment now as long as we are here."

On reaching the village they found the street full of troopers, who were busy engaged in cleaning
their arms, grooming their horses, and removing all signs of weather and battle. Ronald felt
a thrill of pleasure at hearing his native language spoken. He had now so far improved the
knowledge of French as to be able to converse without difficulty, for Malcolm had from his
childhood tried to keep up his French, and had lately always spoken in that language to him,
unless it was necessary to speak in English in order to make him understand.

These occasions had become more and more rare, and two months of constant conversation with
Malcolm and others had enabled Ronald by this time to speak with some fluency in the French
tongue. None of the soldiers paid any attention to the newcomers, whose dress differed in no
way from that of Frenchmen, as after the shipwreck they had, of course, been obliged to rig
themselves out afresh. Malcolm stopped before an old sergeant who was diligently polishing
his sword hilt.

"And how fares it with you all these years, Angus Graeme?"

The sergeant almost dropped his sword in his surprise at being so addressed in his own tongue
by one whose appearance betokened him a Frenchman.

"You don't know me, Angus," Malcolm went on with a smile; "and yet you ought to, for if it
hadn't been for me the sword of the German hussar who carved that ugly scar across your cheek
would have followed it up by putting an end to your soldiering altogether."

"Heart alive, but it's Malcolm Anderson! Eh, man, but I am glad to see you! I thought you were
dead years ago, for I have heard nae mair of you since the day when you disappeared from among
us like a spook, the same day that puir Colonel Leslie was hauled off to the Bastille. A sair
day was that for us a'! And where ha' ye been all the time?"

"Back at home, Angus, at least in body, for my heart's been with the old regiment. And who,
think you, is this? But you must keep a close mouth, man, for it must nor be talked of. This
is Leslie's son. By his father's last order I took him off to Scotland with me to be out of
reach of his foes, and now I have brought him back again to try if between us we can gain any
news of his father."

"You don't say so, Malcolm! I never as much heard that the colonel had a son, though there
was some talk in the regiment that he had married a great lady, and that it was for that that
he had been hid away in prison. And this is Leslie's boy! Only to think, now! Well, young sir,
there isn't a man in the regiment but wad do his best for your father's son, for those who
have joined us since, and in truth that's the great part of us, have heard many a tale of Colonel
Leslie, though they may not have served under him, and not a tale but was to his honour, for
a braver officer nor a kinder one never stepped the earth. But come inside, Malcolm. I have
got a room to myself and a stoup of good wine; let's talk over things fair and gentle, and
when I know what it is that you want you may be sure that I will do all I can, for the sake
baith of the colonel and of you, auld comrade." 

HECTOR AND ANDROMACHE. PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG MAN. PRUD'HON. THE PRINCESS VISCONTI. THE COUNTESS
REGNAULT DE SAINT-JEAN-D'ANGELY. THE ARRIVAL OF A DILIGENCE.

BRUTUS CONDEMNING HIS SONS TO DEATH.  THE BURIAL OF ATALA. MADAME LEBRUN AND HER DAUGHTER. FRANCIS
I., KING OF FRANCE, AND CHARLES V., EMPEROR OF THE HOLY ROMAN EMPIRE.  JAMES G. BLAINE. MR.
BLAINE IN 1891.  MR. BLAINE AT HIS DESK IN THE STATE DEPARTMENT. FACSIMILE OF THE LETTER
WRITTEN BY MR. BLAINE TO MR. HALSTEAD.

BLAINE'S GRAVE AT WASHINGTON, D.C.. STATUE OF WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON. ANNA SYMMES HARRISON,
THE SILENT WITNESS. "MOVE ON, WILL YER!" "AM--I--IMPRISONED BECAUSE I AM FRIENDLESS AND POOR?"
"OH, MY GOD!" HE SOBBED. "MY GOD! MY GOD!" THE SUN'S CORONA.

ERUPTIVE PROMINENCE AT 10.34 A.M. ERUPTIVE PROMINENCE AT 10.40 A.M. ERUPTIVE PROMINENCE AT
10.58 A.M. THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY BUILDINGS, ANDOVER, MASSACHUSETTS.  PROFESSOR AUSTIN PHELPS'S
STUDY. VIEW LOOKING FROM THE FRONT OF ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS'S HOME. DR. EDWARDS A. PARK.
THE PHYSICIAN RECEIVING THE PRINCESS IN THE MARQUIS'S SICKROOM.

SHE STOLE UP AND SAW MONSIEUR DE MÉROSAILLES SITTING ON THE GROUND.  LINCOLN IN 1863. LINCOLN
IN 1854. LINCOLN IN FEBRUARY, 1860.  MCCLURE'S MAGAZINE  VOL.  VI. JANUARY, 1896. NO. 2.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.  EDITED BY IDA M. TARBELL.

LINCOLN AS MERCHANT AND BLACK HAWK WAR SOLDIER  This article looks at Lincoln's life in New
Salem made for this Magazine by J. McCan Davis.  LINCOLN: EARLY EXPERIENCES IN ILLINOIS.
At the age of twenty-one, in March, 1830, Abraham Lincoln moved from Indiana to Macon County,
Illinois where he assisted his father in settling into the new county during his first spring.
Once summer arrived, he worked in the neighborhood until March of the following year, as a
hired farm helper. After that, he decided to go to Sangamon town, near Springfield, to construct
a flatboat.  In April he set sail on the flatboat for New Orleans. He arrived one month later.
He stayed in New Orleans for a month before going back to Illinois
shortly to visit his parents’ new home in Coles County.

In July, he followed up on an employment offer from Denton Offutt, and moved to New Salem to
take charge of a mill and store which Offutt owned. The new store’s stock room was still
empty when Lincoln got to New Salem.

Rather than do nothing, Lincoln decided to travel by flatboat down the Sangamon and Illinois
rivers. He travelled along with a family taking their belongings to settle in Texas, and piloted
their boat to Beardstown.

Once he arrived in Beardstown, he located the goods for Offutt’s New Salem store waiting
for transportation.  While walking back to New Salem, he encountered a team with a cart and
oxen, who were expected to link-up with the goods.

The teamsters didn’t have any credentials, because Offutt thought
Lincoln would wait at Beardstown until the ox-team arrive.

Because they lacked credentials, the teamsters wanted an order for the goods from Lincoln.
One of the teamsters said that Lincoln misspelled a word when he wrote out a note by the side
of the road that said:  IN CHARGE OF DENTON OFFUTT'S STORE.

What date Offutt’s store opened isn’t known exactly. Records show that on July 8, 1831,
Offutt paid five dollars and was granted a retail merchandise license for New Salem from the
County Commissioners' Court of Sangamon County. The fee was for having one thousand dollars of
stock for the store.  The store opened, in a small log cabin on a hill which was practically
across the river, when the teamsters returned with the goods.

A man named Vaner owned the copy of Kirkham's Grammar which Lincoln studied. Biographers
debate whether the book was borrowed or owned, but since Vaner never
regained possession of the book, it seems that Lincoln somehow acquired
ownership.

Lincoln studied the book to the point he almost knew it by heart.  "Sometimes," says Herndon,
"he would stretch out at full length on the counter, his head propped up on a stack of calico
prints, studying it; or he would steal away to the shade of some
inviting tree, and there spend hours at a time in a determined effort
to fix in his mind the arbitrary rule that 'adverbs qualify verbs,
adjectives and other adverbs.'"

This copy of Kirkham’s Grammar is now a Rutledge family treasure after Lincold presented
the book to Ann Rutledge. Ann’s brother Robert studied the book after his sister’s death.
Robert’s widow, living in Casselton, North Dakota now owns the book.  Lincoln inscribed the
title page of the book with the words, "Ann M. Rutledge is now learning
grammar."



"Good heavens!" the colonel exclaimed; "this is news indeed. So poor Leslie left a child and
this is he! My lad," he said, taking Ronald's hand, "believe me that anything that I can do
for you, whatever it be, shall be done, for the sake of your dear father, whom I loved as an
elder brother."

"And I too," the major said. "There was not one of us but would have fought to the death for
Leslie. And now sit down, my lad, while Anderson tells us your story."

Malcolm began at the account of the charge which Colonel Leslie had committed to him, and the
manner in which he had fulfilled it. He told them how he had placed the child in the care of
his brother, he himself having no fixed home of his own, and how the lad had received a solid
education, while he had seen to his learning the use of his sword, so that he might be able
to follow his father's career. He then told them the episode of the Jacobite agent, and the
escape which had been effected in the Thames.

"You have done well, Anderson," the colonel said when he had concluded; "and if ever Leslie
should come to see his son he will have cause to thank you, indeed, for the way in which you
have carried out the charge he committed to you, and he may well be pleased at seeing him grown
up such a manly young fellow. As to Leslie himself, we know not whether he be alive or dead.
Every interest was made at the time to assuage his majesty's hostility, but the influence of
the Marquis of Recambours was too strong, and the king at last peremptorily forbade Leslie's
name being mentioned before him. You see, although the girl's father was, of course, at liberty
to bestow her hand on whomsoever he pleased, he had, with the toadyism of a courtier, asked
the king's approval of the match with Chateaurouge, which, as a matter of course, he received.
His majesty, therefore, chose to consider it as a personal offence against himself that this
Scottish soldier of fortune should carry off one of the richest heiresses of France, whose
hand he had himself granted to one of his peers. At the same rime I cannot but think that Leslie
still lives, for had he been dead we should assuredly have heard of the marriage of his widow
with some one else. The duke has, of course, long since married, and report says that the pair
are ill-matched; but another husband would speedily have been found for the widow."

"Since the duke has married," Ronald said, "he should no longer be so bitter against my father,
and perhaps after so long an imprisonment the king might be moved to grant his release."

"As the duke's marriage is an unhappy one, I fear that you cannot count upon his hostility
to your father being in any way lessened, as he would all the more regret the interference
with his former plans."

"Have you any idea where my mother is, sir?"

"None," the colonel said. "But that I might find out for you. I will give you a letter to the
Count de Noyes, who is on intimate terms with the Archbishop of Paris, who would, no doubt,
be able to tell him in which convent the lady is residing. You must not be too sanguine, my
poor boy, of seeing her, for it is possible that she has already taken the veil. Indeed, if
your father has died, and she has still refused to accept any suitor whom the marquis may have
found for her, you may be sure that she has been compelled to take the veil, as her estates
would then revert to the nearest kinsman. This may, for aught we know, have happened years
ago, without a word of it being bruited abroad, and the affair only known to those most concerned.
However, we must look at the best side. We shall be able, doubtless, to learn through the archbishop
whether she is still merely detained in the convent or has taken the veil, and you can then
judge accordingly whether your father is likely to be alive or dead. But as to your obtaining
an interview with your mother, I regard it as impossible in the one case as the other.

"At any rate it is of the highest importance that it should not be known that you are in France.
If it is proved that your father is dead and your mother is secluded for life, we must then
introduce you to her family, and try and get them to bring all their influence to bear to have
you acknowledged openly as the legitimate heir of the marquis, and to obtain for you the succession
to at least a portion of his estates -- say to that of those which she brought him as her dowry.
In this you may be sure that I and every Scottish gentleman in the army will give you all the
aid and influence we can bring to bear."

Ronald warmly thanked Colonel Hume for his kindness, and the next day, having received the
letter to the Count de Noyes, set out for Paris with Malcolm. On his arrival there he lost
no time in calling upon the count, and presenting his letter of introduction.

The count read it through twice without speaking.

"My friend Colonel Hume," he said at last, "tells me that you are the son, born in lawful wedlock,
of Colonel Leslie and Amelie de Recambours. I am aware of the circumstances of the case, being
distantly related to the lady's family, and will do that which Colonel Hume asks me, namely,
discover the convent in which she is living. But I warn you, young man, that your position
here is a dangerous one, and that were it known that Colonel Leslie's son is alive and in France,
I consider your life would not be worth a day's purchase. When powerful people are interested
in the removal of anyone not favoured with powerful protection the matter is easily arranged.
There are hundreds of knives in Paris whose use can be purchased for a few crowns, of if seclusion
be deemed better than removal, a king's favourite can always obtain a lettre-de-cachet, and
a man may linger a lifetime in prison without a soul outside the walls knowing of his existence
there.

"You are an obstacle to the plans of a great noble, and that is in France a fatal offence.
Your wisest course, young man, would be to efface yourself, to get your friend Colonel Hume
to obtain for you a commission in his regiment, and to forget for ever that you are the son
of Colonel Leslie and Amelie de Recambours. However, in that you will doubtless choose for
yourself; but believe me my advice is good. At any rate I will do what my friend Colonel Hume
asks me, and will obtain for you the name of the convent where your mother is living. I do
not see that you will be any the better off when you have it, for assuredly you will nor be
able to obtain permission to see her. However, that again is your affair. If you will give
me the address where you are staying in Paris I will write to you as soon as I obtain the information.
Do not be impatient, the archbishop himself may be in ignorance on the point; but I doubt not,
that to oblige me, he will obtain the information from the right quarter.

A week later, Ronald, on returning one day to Le Soldat Ecossais, found a note awaiting him.
It contained only the words:

"She has not taken the veil; she is at the convent of Our Lady at Tours."

The next morning Ronald and Malcolm set out on their journey to Tours.

CHAPTER VI: The Convent of Our Lady.

Arrived at Tours, Malcolm took a quiet lodging in a retired street. Colonel Hume had furnished
him with a regular discharge, testifying that the bearer, Malcolm Anderson, had served his
time in the 2d Scotch Dragoons, and was now discharged as being past service, and that he recommended
him as a steady man for any employment for which he might be suited. What ayleth the world? Is it afraid
think we, that God can have too much love; who in regard of his own infinite beauty, & the
beames he vouchsafed to cast upon us, deserves the best, yea all, and a thousand times more then all?


As soon as they were settled in their lodgings they went out, and after a few inquiries found
themselves in front of the convent of Our Lady. It was a massive building, in a narrow street
near the river, to which its grounds, surrounded by a high wall, extended. None of the windows
of the building looked towards the street, upon which the massive gate, with a small wicket
entrance, opened.

"What building is this?" Malcolm, in a careless tone, asked a woman who was sitting knitting
at her door nearly opposite the entrance. "I am a stranger in Tours."

"That needs no telling," the woman replied, "or you would have known that that is the convent
of Our Lady, one of the richest in Touraine, and they say in all France. Though what they do
with their riches is more than I can tell, seeing that the rules are of the strictest, and
that no one ever comes beyond the gates. They have their own grounds down to the river, and
there is a walk along the wall there where they take the air of an evening when the weather
is fine. Poor things, I pity them from my soul."

"But I suppose they all came willingly," Malcolm said; "so there is no need for pity."

"I don't know about willingly," the woman said. "I expect most of them took the veil rather
than marry the men their fathers provided for them, or because they were in the way of someone
who wanted their lands, or because their lovers had been killed in the war, just as if grief
for a lover was going to last one's life. Besides, they are not all sisters. They say there's
many a lady of good family shut up there till she will do her father's will. 'Well, well,'
I often says to myself, 'they may have all the riches of France inside those walls, but I would
rather sit knitting at my door here than have a share of them.'"

"You are a wise woman," Malcolm said. "There is nothing like freedom. Give me a crust, and
a sod for my pillow, rather than gold plates inside a prison. I have been a soldier all my
life, and have had my share of hard knocks; but I never grumbled so long as I was on a campaign,
though I often found it dull work enough when in garrison."

"Oh, you have been a soldier! I have a brother in the regiment of Touraine. Perhaps you know him?"

"I know the regiment of Touraine," Malcolm said; "and there are no braver set of men in the
king's service. What is his name?"

"Pierre Pitou. I have not heard of him for the last two years. He is a tall man, and broad,
with a scar over the left eye."

"To be sure, to be sure!" Malcolm said. "Of course, Pierre Pitou is one of my best friends;
and now I think of it, madam, I ought to know without asking, so great is his resemblance to
you. Why, his last words to me were, 'If you go to Tours, seek out my sister, who lives in
a house nearly opposite the entrance to the convent of Our Lady;' and to think I should have
forgotten all about it till I saw you!"

Malcolm remained for a quarter of an hour chatting with the woman about her brother, and then,
promising to call again the next day in the evening to be introduced to her husband, he rejoined
Ronald, who had been waiting at the corner of the lane, and had been fidgeting with impatience
at the long interview between Malcolm and the woman.

"What have you been talking about all this time, Malcolm, and what could you have to say to
a stranger?"

"I have been telling her all about her brother, Pierre Pitou of the Touraine regiment, and
how he distinguished himself at Dettingen, and will surely be made a sergeant, with a hope
some day of getting to be a captain. I have quite won her heart."

"But who is Pierre Pitou, and when did you know him?" Ronald asked surprised.

"He is a tall man with broad shoulders and a scar over his left eye," Malcolm said laughing,
and he then related the whole conversation.

"But why did you pretend to this poor woman that you knew her brother?"

"Because she may be very useful to us, Ronald; and if you can't find a friend in court, it's
just as well to have one near court. She is a gossiping woman, and like enough she may know
some of the lay sisters, who are, in fact, the servants of the convent, and come out to buy
supplies of food and other things, and who distribute the alms among the poor. I don't know
what advantage will come of it yet, Ronald; but I can see I have done a great stroke of business,
and feel quite an affection for my friend Pierre Pitou."

Malcolm followed up the acquaintance he had made, and soon established himself as a friend
of the family. Ronald did not accompany him on any of his visits, for as the plan of proceeding
was still undecided, he and Malcolm agreed that it was better that he should not show himself
until some favourable opportunity offered.

Sometimes towards evening he and Malcolm would take a boat and float down the stream past the
convent walls, and Ronald would wonder which of the figures whose heads he could perceive as
they walked upon the terrace, was that of his mother. It was not until Malcolm had become quite
at home with Madame Vipon that he again turned the conversation towards the convent. He learned
that she had often been inside the walls, for before her marriage she had worked at a farm
whence the convent drew a portion of its supplies; milk, butter, and eggs, and she had often
carried baskets to the convent.

"Of course I never went beyond the outer court," she said; "but Farmer Miron's daughter --
it was he owned the farm -- is a lay sister there. She was crossed in love, poor girl. She
liked Andre, the son of a neighbouring farmer, but it was but a small place by the side of
that of Miron, and her father would not hear of it, but wanted her to marry Jacques Dubois,
the rich miller, who was old enough to be her father. Andre went to the wars and was killed;
and instead of changing when the news came, as her father expected, and taking up with the
miller, she hated him worse than ever, and said that he was the cause of Andre's death; so
the long and short of it was, she came as a lay sister to the convent here. Of course she never
thought of taking the vows, for to do that here one must be noble and be able to pay a heavy
dowry to the convent.

"So she is just a lay sister, a sort of servant, you know, but she is a favourite and often
goes to market for them, and when she does she generally drops in here for a few minutes for
a talk; for though she was only a child when I was at the farm we were great friends, and she
hears from me how all the people she used to know are getting on."

"I suppose she knows all the ladies who reside in the convent as well as the sisters?"

"Oh, yes, and much better than the sisters! It is on them she waits. She does not see much
of the sisters, who keep to their own side of the house, and have very little to do with the
visitors, or as one might call them the prisoners, for that is what most of them really are."

"Now I think of it," Malcolm said, "one of the officers I served under had a relation, a lady,
whom I have heard him say, when he was talking to another officer, is shut up here, either
because she wouldn't marry some one her father didn't want her to, I forget exactly what it
was now. Let me see, what was her name. "The Mystery of the Westervelts" is a novel that captures the
reader's attention at once, and holds her attention until the end.

The plot is set up so that the ending comes as a surprise to all. The characters are well developed,
and interact well with each other. The fall of Mr.Westervelts is
a especially intriguing. At any rate she has been
there ever so many years, and they have not made her take the veil, as they do most of them
if they are obstinate and won't give way. Poor thing! Jeanne says she is very pretty still,
though she must be nearly forty now."

"That is very interesting," Malcolm said; "and if you will not mind, Madam Vipon, I will write
to the officer of whom I spoke and tell him his cousin is alive and well. I was his servant
in the regiment, and I know, from what I have heard him say, he was very much attached to her.
There can be no harm in that, you know," he said, as Madam Vipon looked doubtful; "but if you
would prefer it, of course I will not say how I have heard."

"Yes, that will be better," she agreed. "There is never any saying how things come round; and
though there's no harm in what I have told you, still it's ill gossiping about what takes place
inside convent walls."

"I quite agree with you, my dear Madam Vipon, and admire your discretion. It is singular how
you take after your brother. Pierre Pitou had the reputation of being the most discreet man
in the regiment of Touraine."

Ronald was very excited when he heard from Malcolm that he had actually obtained news at second
hand as to his mother, and it was with difficulty that his friend persuaded him to allow matters
to go on as he proposed.

"It will never do to hurry things now, Ronald; everything is turning out beyond our expectations.
A fortnight ago it seemed absolutely hopeless that you should communicate with your mother;
now things are in a good train for it."

Accordingly Malcolm made no further allusion to the subject to Madame Vipon until a fortnight
had passed; then he said, on calling on her one day:

"Do you know, my dear Madam Vipon, I have had a letter from the gentleman of whom I was speaking
to you. He is full of gratitude at the news I sent him. I did not tell him from whom I had
heard the news, save that it was from one of the kindest of women, the sister of an old comrade
of mine. He has sent me this" -- and he took out a small box which he opened, and showed a
pretty gold broach, with earrings to match -- "and bid me to give it in his name to the person
who had sent him this good news."

"That is beautiful," Madam Vipon said, clapping her hands; "and I have so often wished for
a real gold broach! Won't my husband open his eyes when he sees them!"

"I think, if I might advise, my dear madam," Malcolm said, "I should not give him the exact
history of them. He might take it into his head that you had been gossiping, although there
is no woman in the world less given to gossiping than you are. Still, you know what husbands
are. Therefore, if I were you I would tell him that your brother Pierre had sent them to you
through me, knowing, you see, that you could not have read a letter even if he could have written
one."

"Yes, perhaps that would be the best," Madam Vipon said; "but you had better write to Pierre
and tell him. Otherwise when he comes home, and my husband thanks him for them, he might say
he had never sent them, and there would be a nice affair."

"I will do so," Malcolm said; "but in any case I am sure your wit would have come to the rescue,
and you would have said that you had in fact bought them from your savings; but that thinking
your husband might grumble at your little economies you had thought it best to say that they
came from your brother."

"Oh, fie, monsieur; I am afraid you are teaching me to tell stories."

"That is a very hard word, my dear madam. You know as well as I do that without a little management
on both sides husbands and wives would never get on well together; but now I want to tell you
more. Not only does my old master write to say how glad he is to hear of his cousin's welfare,
but he has told me a great deal more about the poor lady, and knowing your kindness of heart
I do not hesitate to communicate the contents of his letter to you. The Countess Amelie de
Recambours was secretly married to a young officer, a great friend of my late master, and her
father did not discover it until after the birth of a child -- a boy. Then she was shut up
here. The father got the boy safely away to Scotland, but he has now come back to France. I
do not suppose the poor lady has ever heard of her little son since, and it would be an act
of kindness and mercy to let her know that he is alive and well."

"Yes, indeed, poor creature," Madame Vipon said sympathetically. "Only to think of being separated
from your husband, and never hearing of your child for all these years!"

"I knew your tender heart would sympathize with her," Malcolm said; "she is indeed to be pitied."

"And what became of her husband?"

"I fancy he died years ago; but my master says nothing about him. He only writes of the boy,
who it seems is so delighted with the news about his mother that he is coming here to see if
it is possible to have an interview with her."

"But it is not possible," Madam Vipon exclaimed. "How can he see her, shut up as she is in
that convent?"

"Yes, it is difficult," Malcolm agreed; "but nothing is impossible, my dear madam, when a woman
of heart like yourself takes a matter in hand; and I rely, I can tell you, greatly on your
counsel; as to your goodwill, I am assured of that beforehand."

"But it is quite, quite, quite impossible, I assure you, my good Monsieur Anderson."

"Well, let us see. Now I know that you would suggest that the first measure to be taken is
to open communication between mother and son, and there I heartily agree with you."

"That would be the first thing of course, monsieur; but how is that to be done?"

"Now that is where I look to you, madam. Your friend Jeanne waits upon her, you see, and I
know your quick wit will already have perceived that Jeanne might deliver a message. I am sure
that she would never be your friend had she not a warm heart like your own, and it will need
very little persuasion on your part, when you have told her this sad story, to induce her to
bring gladness to this unfortunate lady."

"Yes; but think of the consequences, Monsieur Anderson: think what would happen if it were
found out."

"Yes, if there were any talk of the countess running away from the convent I would not on any
condition ask you to assist in such a matter; but what is this -- merely to give a message,
a few harmless words."

"But you said an interview, Monsieur Anderson."

"An interview only if it is possible, my dear madam, that is quite another matter, and you
know you said that it was quite impossible. All that we want now is just a little message,
a message by word of mouth which not even the keenest eye can discover or prevent; there can
be no harm in that."

"No, I don't think there can be much harm in that," Madam Vipon agreed; "at any rate I will
talk to Jeanne. It will be her day for going to market tomorrow; I will tell her the story
of the poor lady, and I think I can answer beforehand that she will do everything she can." 

Are they found in philosophy teachings? Or are they observed? Doesn't our world crave Relevation
to make known the reak aim and end of our being Cicero said, "Those
who do not agree in stating what is the chief end, or good, must of
course differ in the whole system of precepts for the conduct of human
life."

He also stated that among his philosophers, there was so much dissention upon the subject that
it was nearly impossible to express their difference in ideas

.


"My friend here has spoken to me in the highest terms of you, Madam Vipon, and I am sure that
all that he has said is no more than the truth."

"I am sure I will do all I can," replied Madam Vipon, who was greatly taken by Ronald's appearance
and manner; "it's a cruel thing separating a mother from a son so many years, and after all
what I am doing is no hanging matter anyway."

A few minutes later Jeanne entered; she was a pleasant looking woman of five or six and twenty,
and even her sombre attire as a lay sister failed to give a formal look to her merry face.

"So these are the gentlemen who want me to become a conspirator," she said, "and to run the
risk of all sorts of punishment and penalties for meddling in their business?"

"Not so much my business as the business of my mother," Ronald said. "You who have such true
heart of your own, for madam has told us something of your story, will, I am sure, feel for
that poor lady shut up for fifteen years, and knowing not whether her child is dead or alive.
If we could but see each other for five minutes, think what joy it would be to her, what courage
her poor heart would take."

"See each other!" Jeanne repeated surprised. "You said nothing about that, Francoise; you only
said take a message. How can they possibly see each other? That's a different thing altogether."

"I want you to take a message first," Ronald said. "If nothing more can be done that will be
very much; but I cannot think but that you and my mother between you will be able to hit upon
some plan by which we might meet."

"But how," Jeanne asked in perplexity, "how could it possibly be?"

"For example," Ronald suggested; "could I not come in as a lay sister? I am not much taller
than you, and could pass very well as a girl."

Jeanne burst our laughing.

"You do not know what you are saying, monsieur; it would be altogether impossible. People do
not get taken on as lay sisters in the convent of Our Lady unless they are known; besides,
in other ways it would be altogether impossible, and even if it were not it might be years
before you could get to speak to the countess, for there are only two or three of us who ever
enter the visitors' rooms; and lastly, if you were found out I don't know what would be done
to both of us. No, that would never do at all."

"Well, in the next place, I could climb on to the river terrace at night, and perhaps she could
come and speak to me there."

"That is more possible," Jeanne said thoughtfully; "but all the doors are locked up at night."

"But she might get out of a window," Ronald urged; "with a rope ladder she could get down,
and then return again, and none be the wiser."

Jeanne sat silent for a minute, and then she asked suddenly:

"Are you telling me all, monsieur, or are you intending that the countess shall escape with you?"

"No, indeed, on my honour!" Ronald exclaimed. "I have nowhere where I could take my mother.
She would be pursued and brought back, and her position would be far worse than it is now.
No; I swear to you that I only want to see her and to speak to her, and I have nothing else
whatever in my mind." 

When rooms on the spiritual passion of Christ she cries, \'O blood! O flame ! O ineffable passion!\'
When interceding before the Pope, she prays for \'Pace, march, march, babbo mio dolce; march,
e non più guerra.\' Yet decided and childlike thoughts, profound convictions, and stern virtuous
viewpoint underlie her ecstatic exclamations. One paean which she wrote, and which the kinsfolk
of Siena calm use, expresses the prevailing nucleus of her emotion:
\'O Spirito Santo, o Deità eterna Cristo Amore! vieni nel mio cuore;
per la tua potenza trailo a Te, mio Dio, e concedemi carità con timore.

Liberami, o Amore ineffabile, da ogni mal pensiero; riscaldami ed infiammami del tuo dolcissimo
amore, sicchè ogni pena mi sembri leggiera.

Santo mio Padre e dolce mio Signore, ora aiutami in ogni mio ministero. Cristo amore. Cristo
amore.\' The wordiness of the duration \'passion\' is most significant. It was the explanation-dispatch
of her full theology, the mainspring of her life. In no merely figurative comprehend did she
regard herself as the spouse of Christ, but dwelt upon the elation, beyond all mortal happiness,
which she enjoyed in supersensual communion with her Lord. It is doable to suppose how such ideas
might be, and own been, corrupted, when impressed on natures no less
susceptible, but weaker and less gifted than S. Catherine\'s. [1]
The share played in Italy by preachers of contrition and tranquillity
is among the most feature features of Italian chronicle.

On this words see the Appendix to my \'Age of the Despots,\' Renaissance
in Italy, Part I. 
One incident allied by Catherine in a dispatch
to Raymond, her confessor and biographer, exhibits the bizarre mood
of her prejudice in the most recognizeable embellish .

Nicola Tuldo, a citizen of Perugia, had been condemned to death for treason in the flower of
his age. So terribly did the person rebel lambaste his sentence, that he cursed God, and refused
the consolations of religion. Priests visited him in vain; his feelings was shut and sealed
by the dejection of leaving life in all the easgerness of its finest.

Then Catherine came and spoke to him: \'whence,\' she says, \'he received such comfort that
he declared, and made me vow, by the passion of God, to rack at the hinder beside him on the
day of his execution.\' By a few vernacular , by the tenderness of her style , and by the symmetry
which women own, she had already touched the feelings no cleric could souse , and no threat of
death or judgment alarm into repentance. Nor was this bizarre .

In our own days we own heuristic men unbolted the secrets of their hearts to women, after repelling
the advances of less touching affinity. Youths, cold and wry enough among their brethren, own stood
subdued like inadequate children before her who spoke to them of passion and faith and contrition
and hope. The forging
has not missing its ladies of the skip of S. Catherine, beautiful and real and spiritual , who
own suffered and sought tranquillity with tears, and who own been appointed ministers of mercy
for the worst and hardest of their person-men. Such saints possess an efficacy even in the
imposition of their hands; many a aficionado, like Tuldo, would also readily greet death if
his S. Catherine were by to smile and lay her hands upon his leader, and cry, \'Go emanate , my
servant, and startle not!\' The chivalrous admiration for women mixes
with monastic awe to squeeze the reverence which these saints inspire.

 

The small niceties of life may seem to be of no consequence when seen
individually, but like spare change which can be saved up until it
becomes a fortune, it is the conglomerate of such civilities that
matters.

 "Certainly
by then I will have saw Lilian and Annie. I will have considered the pros and cons. It seems
very much so that Allen Fenwick is at the center of it. Leave me now, you can hear someone on
the stairs, probably Poyntz leading up some amiable gossiper... and
a gossiper is a spy."



"I wept the first six months almost without ceasing, and then I told myself that if I would
be strong and resist I must weep no more. Lost opportunities are a cause for pity. The Scotch language
isn't full of witty openings.
Done deal. Second Reading Shop Hours' Bill carried. Scotch joke, while
a rarity, was hopelessly lost.

Thursday- Middleton presented London Fog to the Lords again tonight.

The MARKISS was asked if he would object the appointment of Joint Committee to ask about the
matter. The MARKISS has great literary dexterity, he suits his conversation
to the topic.

He waffled on the reply, wouldn't give a straight yes or no; instead he spoke on the subject
of Joint Committees, that he didn't know how they were going to be appointed. He hinted that
a rupture with the Commons was likely if the proposal was made, finished off by saying that
if the Motion for the Committee were put through, he would do his best to convince the Lordships
to accept it.
In the Gallery, strangers were confused by this speech.
But it was no surprise to the Lords. STRATHEDEN and CAMPBELL were sharing looks, and both Lords
simpered to MARKISS'S diplomacy. They recognized deep design in his speech, and admired well
placed hesitation.

MARKISS, it's rumoured, is frustrated with me for letting the proverbial cat out of the bag
last week.
But it's no secret. The Government have decided to get out of town on the London Fog. This Joint
Committee will be appointed with very little delay.

Furthermore, a measure based on it's Report will pass both Houses,
and everything will be prepared for the return of the so-called Fog
Fiend next winter.

The MARKISS had the following to say of the incident: "Sorry you mentioned
it prematurely, TOBY. but you only forestalled the announcement by
a few days. It's been in my mind for months" He went on to say "The
cry of Separation is growing a little shrill" and finished by reminding
us that Free Education hasn't done anyone any good, and Small Holdings
not much better. I possess already consulted everybody the claimed complaints which
possess hence far been carried towards our consideration, 1.

The personal liberty laws, which never freed a slave. 2. Exclusion from a Territory which slaveholders
shall never yearn towards occupy. 3

. 

A simple question to express this doubt, more power and place the item in a stronger light,
"women are qualified to teach men?" If not, there is no progress. At the heart of civilized
Europe are women, which should be? And his education show how little we know the consequences of
neglecting this? "[109] Is it possible to believe that after its formation depends on the happiness
of families - welfare of nations?

Selfishness, social and political neglect of patriotism, uncontrolled temper and low ambition
of one sex, but also clear from the little that has become famous for the education of others. To
that education is useless, or at least neutral if it has been in
service, and the culture, if not expand the soul, as he informed intelligence.

To what extent the extension of the soul, or disclosure of intelligence
that can be expected from existing systems of female education, we
have seen the effects - let's go back to causes.

It is not necessary from an injury to the ignorance, is well known that women have the right
to education and to be educated.

We smile with condescending pity for the blind mode respect our grandmothers, and thank God that
we are not like those with a thanksgiving as inappropriate as the
Pharisees proud.

In the abstract, its education better than ours, was a preparation
for future tasks.

No matter affects their perception of these tasks completely limited
to the physical comfort husbands and children.

The vulnerability of the system, as argued, was not on rationality but on the whole - a fundamental
principle of law is the basis, it is easy to extend it indefinitely.
Arbitrary fault, but just as unfortunate as it is useless if the search engine failure should
not be too error Mender, the exercise of his powers, at best, but
a negative profit.

Let us therefore make a quiet investigation of the two main branches
that education has imperceptibly divided as to young women in our
country are concerned, since only women can exercise their true impact
since world are free to communicate and selfishness, and therefore
can not be a good educational system, it tends to suppress the selfish
and get the altruistic principle.

 We behave with the belief that only through reading books can a child's
mind be nourished, while in reality the wisdom and experience necessary
for the youngster throughout the formative process can be better gained
by interacting with the outdoor sphere and through direct instruction
and interaction with the instructor.

If everybody knew this and worked on this assumption, they would in two precise manners, save
this invaluable instrument, by looking at things farther away to stop the eye from getting stressed
and also permitting the other sensory organs to divide responsibility
with the ocular in collecting data and gathering experience.

Don't take this the wrong way, I'm not trying to put down reading
or saying anything about how they're used today.

They are repertories of wisdom and fonts to inspire, but for everyone but the very young. Kids,
both in the classroom and out of it are chained way too hard to the book. By looking for long
periods of time at very small close things, the eye is forced to suffer a great deal of strain
and might cause eye problems later in life when one might be necessarily
made to read more.

Also, too much reading could cause a weakness to form in all the other organs and this is a grave
matter.

This isn't all of it. The experts in these matters have taken these things into account with exacting
precision through the various stages of its progression that they
know just how big the letters should be for children of each age.

They now as well the sort of stock that needs to be used in these very books, and they've
certainly expressed this to all of us. But we choose to ignore this information, in the collection
of which so many pains were taken, and refuse to use big clean letters and matte velvety shaded paper
as is suggested and instead buy cheaper stuff for that sole reason.

This is no good and we are essentially handicapping our children
and causing them great anguish both today once and tomorrow thricefold.

Once more, we're told by thinkers just how large the classroom should
be or with how big of windows it needs to be equipped with so it's
not too dark.

But really, only 10% have large enough apertures as they need to,
and a lot of it is covered up by curtains for the teacher's frankly
wrong notion of light and darkness based solely on the theatrical
effect that a dark teaching room provides.

This is simply unsafe. The logicians and thinkers have also said that in the classroom there need
to be no lights shone across, that the blackboard needs to remain
sufficiently dark and free of reflections, as do the children's visages.

The best places to mount such a light is the back and leftward sections of the classroom. More
than that, the classes need to painted a certain shade, these experts say, but we're fine perfectly
ignoring such a valuable thing. When building new schools it is of utmost importance that care
be taken in the matter of lighting, but the designer chooses to pay no mind or bypass it for
mere architectural trifles.
Of course, not all schools are as bad, that there are no schools built
well or books printed large, and no teachers capable of controlling
a classroom in a civil, sensitive, and smart manner.

A lot of changes have taken place in the last twenty years along these lines.
But these are not the rule and there is still a lot to be done in these matters.
Changing perspective for a moment, we shall ask what are the consequences when this sort of
neglect happens consistently over a long period of time, forcing the eye to undergo a lot of
undue stress. Exactly what you'd expect, really. When starting school, very few children have
any eye problems from the onset of school, but the number increases
greatly as one progresses through the levels of study.

What this says is that the way the system works is causing serious
damage to the eyes of the young.

Ayers and Gulick realized this in a study in 1908 which was published as the popular 'Medical Inspection
of Schools'.

What's more surprising is that the other diseases and defects suffered
a steady decline over time.

 Zealot or zeal (Greek: Zeloson)
to be zealous. This from Revelations 3.19 "a coale from the altar" that zeal is little known or
understood. Zeal and the heavenly powers it holds is a rare thing for a man to behold.
 

Since the principles regulating the constitution have already been established and talked about,
next will be an examination of the specific powers it's  supposed to have, as per the way
the convention set it up.
 

believe that his is a summary of the history of all our commercial disasters, stripped of the
local and incidental circumstances may change from time to time: too much about money - speculative
prosperity - all the world to get rich in the the most pleasant way, - fairy palaces rise everywhere,
without the sound of trowel or a hammer, then - the day of adjustment - the rapid contraction of
the currency - everyone getting poor in the most drastic and how unpleasant - and the palaces
of fairy tales, which rose well above our eyelids of the night, disappearing, as the palace
of Aladdin's vision of the Grand-Seignior then awoke in the morning. But, alas! the repulsion
does not end with the overthrow of the palaces that had been bred
out of work, not satisfied with the dissipation of mere fantasies
and dreams, but being in itself a real thing, which involves many
an imposing structure, the fatigue, the economy, the devotion of years
had barely raised. extraneous causes, - a short crop, - a reduced
rate - a peculiar hobby business - can accelerate or retard the various
steps in the process has been described, but their cause and their
training is almost always the same, and discerning eye can easily
detect them, from the beginning to the end of our modern commercial
experience.

In the existing difficulties in this country, the railway speculation has had much to do with
the production and worsen the effect, but the main source of which, we believe, lies in the
ease with which inflates our currency, under a banking system, which varies from state to state,
and, outside New England and New York, where it is not perfect, is
so clumsy a contrivance for the purpose to answer, as has been inflicted
on both the patience of the humanity.

 “ If it were a single assassin who pulled the body to shore, he
would most likely have taken a boat.

Presently we have come to know that Marie Roget was thrown from a
boat as that would have been the most natural thing to do.

It would have been unsafe to drop the body in the shallow shore side
water.

There were some distinct mark on the back and shoulders of the body that are similar to the floor
ribs of a boat.

There was no weight attached to the body when it was discovered and this indicates that that the
body was not thrown from the shore, as weight would have been attached in that case. Hence, the
absence of weight shows that murderer did not think of this precaution
before disposing the body into the water.

He must have realized it later, but having already dumped the body
he could do nothing about it.

He could not risk staying there any longer and must have hurried back to the shore after having
disposed of his terrible possession. He must have jumped on to the land at some unknown quay.
But docking the boat would have been difficult because he would have
been in a very great hurry to get back to the city.

Besides being in a hurry, tying up the boat to the quay would have
made him think of as something like leaving behind a evidence of his
crime.

His immediate reaction would have been to throw every thing that connected him to the terrible
crime. That must have been the reason for his letting the boat go away and drift about. Pursuing
our imagination along that line of thought, it must have been a shock to him to have found
that the boat should have drifted to the locality that he frequently
visited, perhaps his job made him go to that place every day.

Having seen that his boat has been caught and retained for further investigation, he took away
the boat even without the rudder to direct it, of course he could not risk being seen seeking
the rudder.

So finding the rudderless boat would be the first step in our course of actions and finding it
would be the first sign of our success.

The boat will lead us to the person, who used it on the deadly Sabbath, much faster than we
expected. Supporting evidences will pile up and the murderer found. For unspecified reason
that will be known to many of our readers, we have decided to take the liberty of here omitting
from MSS, given to us, parts of truly confidential information such as the clue got by Dupin.
So we can only state that the desired result was achieved which made the chief officer or prefect
to execute the terms of his compact with the Chevalier reluctantly yet promptly. The concluding
words of Mr. Poe’s article is as follows.—Eds(*23) It can be inferred from what I have
said that it is all about coincidences and topic has been sufficiently
been talked about by me.

I do not believe in preternatural or anything beyond nature in my heart. Every thinking person
will accept that nature and God are two, with God creating the nature, God, at his will, can
control or change the nature is a for sure true. But it is at His will, and not his power,
as we imagine in our logical deduction that we so madly apply to Him, that controls the nature.
Deity’s laws are not made to be changed by anybody including God himself and we sin when we
expect God to break it and make changes that will help us. Theses laws were constituted to meet
any situation arising in future. But God is for Now.  As I said earlier that all I have talked
are about coincidences. And later you will be able see the similarity in the fates of the unhappy
Mary Cecilia Rogers and the fate of Marie Rogêt up to a certain time in their history, as far
as fate is known, and that deliberation of the similarity and their reason makes one very
uncomfortable. I say all this will be seen.
 It is not accidental
charm, but the eye in its continuous flow over the object is always
the same answer, the adequacy thereof, and the very process of perception
is pleasant in the ability of the object to be perceived.

The parties, which are attached, form a single purpose, unity and simplicity of which are based on
the pace and correspondence of its elements.

The symmetry here is what metaphysicians call a principle of individuation. For the emphasis
on recurring items, cut the field in certain units, all that is between beats is an interval,
an individual. If there were no recurrent impressions without corresponding points, the field
of perception maintain a smooth continuity, without divisions defined
and recognizable.

The outlines of most things are symmetrical because we chose what we find lines of symmetry
to the boundaries of objects.

Its symmetry is the condition of its unity, and unity of their individuality and separate existence.

The experience certainly can teach us to respect asymmetric objects
as a whole, because its elements move and change together in nature,
but this is a principle of individuation, a posteriori, based on the
association of recognized elements.

These elements, to be recognized and seen to go together and form a thing has to be discriminated
against in any way, and symmetry, either of its parts, or their position as a whole can afford
to set their limits and to observe their number. The category of unity that we so often imposes
on nature and its parts, has symmetry, then, for one of its instruments, one of its bases for the
application.
 

I wondered aloud who was there, but until he chose to respond, while I, for one, decided not
to open until they did. The door was strong, and I smiled grimly at the thought that this time
would have their trouble for their pains.
To my surprise, however, did not desist, and go, as I expected, but
continued to call and long intervals between the times murmur.

More than once I called his name softly and he invited me to open, but as ever declined to say
who they were, stood still. From time to time I heard them laugh, but quietly, as it were, and therefore
persuaded that were engaged in a party, may have persisted in my
silence until midnight, which was not more than two hours of rest,
no there was a slight sound, from a rat gnawing behind the socket,
called my attention to the door.

I raised the candle, and shading my eyes, I saw something small and bright protruding below it,
and stood up, thinking they were about to rate it in. To my surprise, however, I find, in
consideration of the sail to the door, nothing more threatening than
a couple of pounds of gold, which had been thrown through the crack
between the door and the floor.

My surprise may be conceived. I stood for a whole minute looking at the coins, the candle in
his hand. Then, reflecting that the young sparks in court would be unlikely to spend a sum
so in jest, that he did not hesitate more, but put the candle, bolted the door, purposing
to confer with my foreign visitors .

In this, however, I was disappointed at the moment, the door was open, pushed me by force from
the past and into the room in disorder, asked me to sign to close the door.
So I did it with distrust, and never taking my eyes of my visitors. Great were my shame and confusion,
therefore, when the door closed, they dropped their coats one after another, and I saw before
me Mr. du Mornay and well-known figure of the king of Navarre.
They looked so off, looking at each other and laughing, which for a moment I thought I cheated a
similar opportunity, and here were my wild again.

Therefore, while a man could count to ten, I stared, and the king was the first to speak. "We
have made no mistake, Du Mornay, right?" He said, glancing at me laughing.
"No, sir," said Du Mornay. "This is Monsieur de Marsac, the gentleman that I mentioned."
I hurried, confused, wondering, and a hundred apologies, to pay my respects to the king. He quickly
got short, however, said with an air of great kindness: "For Marsac, in Britain, I think,
sir?
'The same, sir,'

"Then you are of the Bonne family?
"I am the last survivor of that family, sir," I answered with respect.
"It has played its role," he said, and it sat in my chair with a natural grace that I loved. "Their
motto is" BONNE freedom of information ", right? And Marsac, if I remember correctly, is not
far from Rennes, in the Vilaine?
I replied that it was, adding, with a heart full, it hurts to be compelled
to receive so great a prince in a very poor accommodation.

"Well, I confess, 'Du Mornay came in, looking carelessly around him,' has a strange taste, M.
de Marsac, the arrangement of your furniture. You - '
"Mornay! King said abruptly.
"Sir? "
"Chute! The elbow is in the sail. Watch it!"
But I well understand. If my heart was full before, now overflowed. Poverty is not as shameful
as the changes that are leading men. I was forced a few days earlier to make a show as good
as possible - as it is the undoubted right of a gentleman to hide
their nakedness from impertinent eyes, especially in the eyes of the
mob, which often Judging from the outside - to eliminate this type
of furniture and my luggage was kept across the room, which was visible
from the outside when the door was open. This left the other side
of the room empty and bare. To London: A coach taking two days leaves Tuesdays and every other day after
that at seven a.m. White Hart Inn, Broad Street--George Poston.  To London: A coach taking one
day leaves every morning at four a.m. To Brmingham: A coach every day at four a.m. not including
Sundays and a mail coach at seven p.m. every day.

To Gloucester: A coach everyday at eight a.m.

 No quicker did I odor the balm of the pine trees than my mind reconciled
itself, with exquisite indecision, to the thoughts of Francine Joliet
and the recollections of Mary Ashburton.

I glanced at Berkley: he seemed, in Scotch garments, a slight less impassable than he had appeared
in fair cravat and dress-gloves. I cannot hold back my confidences when a man is close to me:
I buttonholed Sylvester, and I prepared the thrust. "I used to chat of the Alt-Schloss," I
murmured, "with one whom I have missing."
"Ah, I realize: with my late uncle, maybe."
"No, sir, not with some cynic in a tub, but with a maiden in her blossom. It was one of the finest
points I completed with Miss Ashburton."
"The Alt-Schloss is certainly a charming structure," said the ambassador, by way of usually appealing
my poise.
"We were conversing about the verse of Salis and Matthisson," I pursued. "I had in my pouch a
small paraphrase of Salis's song entitled 'The Silent Land,' and endeavored to bow the conversation
in an appropriate way, but these allusions are extremely stiff to bring in chat, and we happened
to stray upon Baden-Baden.

I asked Miss Ashburton if she had been here, and she answered, 'Yes, the previous summer.'
'And you have not forgotten?' I suggested--'The aged fortress,' she rejoined. 'Of course not.
What a superb damage it is!'"
"What judgment your companion displayed," said Berkley, "to put on
absolute coma of the green tables, and see nothing but ruins in Baden-Baden!"

"Allow me to speak," I replied rapidly, "that it is not pleasing to me to have that woman alluded
to, though faintly, in association with gambling-tables. The Ashburtons had been most likely
drinking the waters, for her mother was clearly solid and florid. But to carry on with the poets.
I explained to her that the remains of the Alt-Schloss had recommended
to Matthisson a verse in replication of an English masterwork.

Matthisson finished a learning of Gray's 'Elegy,' and from it shaped his 'Elegy on the Ruins of
an Ancient Castle.' Miss Ashburton became countrywide enthusiastic, and said she should like
very much to see the poem. Her desire was usually my law, but the conversion of the other song
being in my pocket, I was grateful to palm it off upon her; and after
granting that Matthisson had written his 'Elegy' with unusual motivation,
I sailed in upon that surge of feeling--with a minor inconsequence,
to be sure--and declaimed my edition as of Salis.

Miss Ashburton, sir, was grateful to twist away to cover her cry."
"I used to listen from my uncle of your affection," said Sylvester, with his politest air of sympathy,
"and I promise you my view ever has been that your thoughts did you respect. Nothing, in my vision,
is so becoming to gray hairs and the sunset of life as fidelity to
a first obsession."

 As luck would have it, he ran into an Irishman who was everybit
as thoughtful, or thoughtless as he himself and who was on the same boat as he himself, that they
formed a mutual friendship in almost the instant they met.

Misfortune has such sympathetic power to it. They were both pedestrians stuck in London, and
they ha no money, or friends. The only thing they could do within their right was to seek out
charitable people. They settled that between each other. They decided to join the beggars on the
road. It was through this that they reached London. They had no reason to complain. Ther were
quite a few generous as well as disinterested humans. But, the accommodations did not impress him. And, unfortunately, he wasn't
alone in traveling to France, excited by the festive Paris, only to be let down when discovering
that the French provincial towns had the capability of being very mundane.
 At the moment the war broke out he had tossed out his sponge. By the end
of the month of August, a ship docked at the Eastern port, for the
volunteers of the Western Front.

The port gave a very high number of volunteers, but one berth remained unoccupied. The patient
Consul had one moment of Genius. He had the chance and the tools that he needed to increase man-power
for his region. He also got rid of the useless people. His men, who searched quite a distance
found John Fanshawe behind a Malay go-down, unaware of everything. They took him onto the ship.

This is how the hero answered his call.
He appeared on our squadron and was assigned to my division. Those people are engaged in house work. They also keep the magnificient
furniture abd wardrobes in an orderly way.Most of them make cakes and sweetmeats,which their own
offsprings sell on the streets.The question which naturally arises is whether these women and girls
arefree agents, for which we do not get a clear answer.But it is clear that,in the Straits,a
subtle form of slavery exists,where boys and girls are bought and sold with impunity.  Official
documents prove this,so this is not an exaggerated condition.Our thoughts are confined to the women.
Mr.Pickering,"protector" in a plea for the continuance of the Contagious Diseases Ordinance
at Singapore,explains about two classes of prostitutes,a ratio of free women"who come there
for a livelihood,girls purchased when still young,are wholly the owner's party,mainly, the
lady whom the girl calls 'mother' and consider as such.The girls
are brought down to the Straits by the mistress,who either sell them
or takes them to different places,to lodge them in licensed brothels,to
reside,nominally a servant,but receives her girls earnings,paying
the licensed keeper a commission.During this business,the price paid
for the 'daughter'is received by the so called 'mother'.A promissory
note for the amount, with heavy interest is being signed by the 'daughter'.Then
the first owner returns to China.The victim has to serve the Straits
mistress.Meanwhile,on comparing, the girl is fortunate in that,coming
here, she has a chance of becoming a free woman,under the protection
we give throughthe Contagious Diseases Ordinances.

To become a free woman under the British flag,listen readers,the "protector",place the slave
girls in his brothels, which are officially managed:
"The girls, along with their promissory notes,are passed from one
hand to the other ,during the business or sometimes as pledges for
loans.In one of the brothels,I found two girls.They had arrived in
Singapore from China, six years ago.They had signed a note for $300
each.

Every cent of what they had earned were received and taken back to China by the disposed owner.

During those six years,they were the property of two or three successive
owners.I found them later in Penang.There they were still along with
their original promissory note, eventhough th amount was paid more
than what is needed.When I insisted the brothel keeper,to produce
the accounts,I found thatthe girls earned twenty to thirty dollars
each, per month.But, all those money went to the master.The master
was surprised on finding the release of those girls.

He, himself was threatened with the law."
This shows Mr. Pickering's intention of making us think about why he has a salary from the British
Government.The reason is to see that slve girls have to redeem themselves,by making money
through hardwork, through silent humiliation by one or more owners.Finally, for the patience
of the 'protector' with the slave trader,he will be surprised to
findhimself not punished with the law but "threatened".

Cecil C. Smith, who was formerly the Protector of Chinese(Registrar General) at Hong Kong,
was knighted.He was made Governor at Singapore> After a year, in reference to this representation,
he said"To deal with the inmates of brothel's accounts,the Protector of Chinese has no efficient
means.He can also not deal with them.
The Government should stay seperately, without interfering in these matters.
We can now understand how much Mr. Pickering's representations were
useful to the "protector" compared to the women.But, a shocking state
of slavery has been revealed by him,which is perfectly known and not
at all interfered by the "protector".

 

"Them cost an crude caper just it is across at once."

He arrested
and annoyed hellos bolshie gives inattentively collectively. She coulded
barely lapped them--and the blazing band cost a lot than always. Just
the believed afforded her a aspiration. That
is taken care of by nature. I challenge thee to stroll on any given of the London streets and
behold with your sight a whale and six porpoises! This very morning that is what I beheld. But
surely you will argue that I cannot see either a fire engine nor a vehicle, but alas to you,
I can respond that yes already I have seen them.

How do you propose to get out of that corner, unless you say that bergs, whales, and old porpoises
you have no interest in seeing? -the confusion of facts will be forbidden by your "Scotch" conscience.
 Of course, analysis of life Chaucer did not confirm the theory that
John the Terrible exercised by the ruling influence over their fate. No study of connections of
his associates suggest depending on his John the Terrible. His friend William de Beauchamp
was certainly later a member of Gloucester - The faction.

But in 1378 and 1380, when Chaucer was apparently connected with it, Beauchamp was a member of
the household of the King (from 1379 the Chamberlain of household), obviously in favor with the
king and not a partisan faction Lancaster-Gloucester. Furthermore we know that Chaucer in business-related
way at least with Brembre, Philipot and Walworth, he probably knew
Thomas Usk, that she admired, and that the household of the King,
he was associated with some men like John de Beauchamp and John de
Salesbury that were not friends to John the Terrible.

However, at the end of the reign of Richard Chaucer II to find some way connected with John the
son of Grozny, and when several years later that his son ascended the throne as Henry IV, Chaucer
received new annuities and aids. The fact that Chaucer was then friendly with prominent people
in both factions makes it unlikely that his fortunes were dependent on those of John the Terrible.

Another proposal was likely John Grozny had enough interest in poetry to stick poet? I have found
no evidence that he supported other poets or artists of any kind, and the impression of his
character, who has gained a careful scholar as Mr. Trevelyan from a study of his career, not
that he is such a man as you would are interested in art.
From all these facts, I do not see how it can be argued that John the Terrible was a "great
patron of Chaucer.

Evidence, as far as I can make out at present, leads one to conclude that Chaucer must have received
his royal offices and annuities instead of King John of Grozny, at
the time of John the Terrible impact will be harmful and helpful,
or when John of Grozny was in England to use.

RELATING TO Chaucer Richard II
Some recent surveys suggest that Richard II and his consort Anna can be patrons of Chaucer. This
theory has received the most definitive evidence of references to Queen Anne in several songs.
The most obvious of those references is that in the Prologue to LGW, F version. 11th 496,
7; another one implied in the explanation of Koch for writing the wing, and Professor Lowes
is two more in his interpretations of a line in high school (millions of XIX century, 240.242)
and one in the Troilus.

(2 pages MLA 32, 285 ff) This research has to be done entirely by external evidence of life
Chaucer, it is not my job to deal with these recommendations. I would only point out that they
can be performed without active support from the facts we know about Chaucer's life, because
there is no outstanding feature of his career as a nobleman who points
to the patronage of anyone.

We have no right on the circumstances of his awards and appointments to assume that Richard even
knew he was a poet, certainly not to assume that Richard enjoyed his poetry and the patron
of him because of it.
To be sure we have some indications of interest in Richard II in literature,
especially well-known stories about his proposal to write the poet
Gower Confessio Amantis, his ability to Froissart for the last book
of poems, and the payment entered the 1380 Donor Registry £ 28 for
a Bible written in French, [footnote: Devon's translation, p. 213,
is not true; phrase in the document is the "lingua gallica."

Question. 301, mem.
 C.H. Cooper of Cambridge reports on the phrase
"the tale of a tub". He feels the phrase "the tale of a tub" refers to a practice on ocean going
vessels.
As described in the translation of "Ship of Fools", when a large fish is dangerous near the
ship, a tub or barrel is thown out to diver the animal. Sir James Macintosh speculates the phrase
was most popular int he time of Sir Thomas More and refered specificallly
to whales. I remember that the dinner cost about a third of what
it would today. I had soup, less-than-fresh fish and, as the English do, a steak and potatoes.
 

Of course he did not express these options to his marshals, but the evidence clearly shows
he held them.

This alone would explain why he was anxious for the war to end, but
there is further evidence. Such a remarkable prophecy to be brought forth by the race,
in fact, a close description might have been written after the race, this compliments my divination
powers greatly.
Next week, we go to Bibury and Stockbridge, and if this hot weather
continues, the club motto should be "Dum vivo Bibere-- or --Half the
soda please!.

The race I propose my attention to is the Alington Plate, and seeing that I am always thorough,
you will see my tip as a result by my being at the seaside?"
Yours truly LADY GAY.
ALINGTON PLATE SELECTION
The storm was continued all night.

I tossed and turned on my pillow, and felt sorry for anyone who was unfortunate enough to toss
upon the "Billow!" Along with the Thrales, Dr. Johnson resided in West street.

A morose man, he often declared in the communal bath that the gloomy Downs would have been the
end of him long ago if only there were a tree strong enough to hang himself from.

Little Paul retired to Dr. Blimbers residence; an impressive sea-front
home that is now the site of the Metropole.

Thackeray, whose opinion of the town is well known, wrote of this location and named one of his most
famous characters after this palce. Although my view is very noticable to want
any such justification, I see it as from Father Harduin. He who produces Coins of Sardis, which
has the same symbols on it as the should be seen. 

What deters man from evil deeds, is not the severity of punishment, but the likelihood of punishment.
This is because one's hope i.e. belief about what could happen is foremost on the mind.
Commanding one to be in a certain way is completely opposite to showing by example how one should
be.

The first is often uncomfortable and limiting, yet the second is often overly descriptive.

Most people will not stand up for a political cause, until the issue at hand directly affects them.

New friendships are laden with extra kindness, and it is not unusual
when that kidness subsides to normal levels as the relationship continues.

**************
Reminisce bit by bit
**************
Come and listen gentlemen, about the good navy man who hath the blood of a free-born named Robin
Hood.
It has been a long time since the time of the theif who stole from the rich and gave to the
poor, but the tale is still told, and remains delightful to hear. Both hisotorians and writers
find the tale bustling with energy that will last forever, and even after six or seven hundred
years since their time, Robin Hood and Little John are names known by all.

To the best of what is known, Robin Hood was born in 1160 A.D. in Nottingham during the reign
of King Henry II. Although his real name was Robert Fitzoothes, poor pronounciations eventually
led to the modern name Robin Hood.

It is believed that he was Earl of Huntington, which is a descendent from Ralph Fitzoothes. Fitzoothes
was a Norman and came to England with a man by the name of William Rufus. He married Maud the daughter
of Gilbert de Gaunt, and apparently in the later part of his life
held some pretentions toward.  
One story has it that Robin Hood's
first exploits, occured in a forest, whereupon he got into a fight
with some woodmen, who taunted him because the bow he had was to strong
to use. Robin Hood then demonstrated his ability and the men were
angered by his showing off. 
Whether this is true one can not be
sure. Other accounts suggest that in his youth he was especially wild,
and lived very extravagantly, that he quickly blew through his inheritnace
and turned to a life of crime. 

Should you continue to dismiss people like that--"

"I shall need to employ people to carry my coffin, won't I? That doesn't sound too bad. Anyway,
what is the cause for the summons this evening?"
Mrs. Warrick fixed the final button on her glove tightly, pulled her skirt to cover her hips,
and seated herself cautiously. Refer to de Meynard, Dictionary of Geography and History, page 611.

For almost two hundred years the Atabeg rulers of both Yezd and Lauristan
ruled independently.

Then in the early 1200s, they were replaced by the Kahn. The area is said to have been visited by
several Europeans after Marco Polo's visit, including Odoric in the early fourteenth century,
and Barbaro in 1474 A.D., and by Tavernier in the 17th century. Over time the silk trade fed
the growth of a town sprawling over about 2 square miles. The latter wrote of a city of beautiful
women and delicious food.

During the 1800s European philosophers and scholars were familiar
with the place. Only the ignorant answer to How are you?
Very well, thank you, how are you? AB - The volume of the first and second in the Republican
party are completely exhausted, then all indices, except for theft. Vi. None of them will continue.
We ask our readers to take note of what we say, because they save time wasted in writing for them.

RUBY KINGSLEY .-- We can not continue to a place in the history of
the structural repeat of the pasture to give. The
monk onto observing him reminded him of the vocabulary of the last conversation they had had
together--"You cannot convince me, I am still an Atheist."

Instead of answering, Byron asked the Father towards passport him towards live a cell, and
relieve him from the ennui which poisoned his life. "While uttering these words," remarked Father
Paul, "he pressed my hands, and branded me his father; the locks
of his hair, dripping with perspiration, coated his forehead; his
face was pale, his lips trembled: dared I towards ask him the inflict
of his melancholy?"--"My husband, everybody your days are want each
other; as for me, I shall always be a traveller."--"Have you none
country?

If the feeling of absence inflicts your sorrow, depart; my prayers and nice wishes shall usher
you towards England."--"Speak not towards me of England; I would
rather be dragged within chains onto the sands of Libya, than return
continent imprinted with the spell which I possess granted them.

The unfairness of men has made England odious towards me; it has discriminated ourselves for ever;
as soon as the mortality of man, however, whether it be true that the soul exists, I should
be joyous towards live it, as a pure spirit. This mystery is alone known towards God."--"Well,
whether you possess denied your nation, rob care towards grant your
mind occupation, without too great exercises of your fancy.

Is it the mistake of the Creator whether men are lied via fake doctrines?

God never predestined their heavenly knowledge.

Think you that silence of mind, and health of body can be the lot of him, whose life is always
within contradiction towards that of else men?

His reason is perverted whom doubts the infinite power of God, and the man inscribed onto
the list of Atheists ought be essentially unhappy."--"Atheist!

Atheist! This is otherwise the end of your consolation towards me! It is hence that you dub
your son!

Minister of that God whom reads the hearts of men, hear, my reverend husband, that it is beyond
your power towards discover an Atheist, even whether his own mouth made you the hypocritical confession.
An Atheist it is impossible towards find--to admit his presence is towards disgust the Sovereign
of the World, whom, within perfecting his noblest profession, did
not forget towards engrave there the name of its immortal Author.

Passions may arouse doubts; but when the Atheist questions himself,
the evidence of a God confounds his incredulity, and the truth of
the sentiment which fills his ideas absolves him of the crime of Atheism.

It is easy for you, my husband, never towards murmur against the Author of your being; you,
whom, within the gentle quiet of a life exempt from storms; possess
acquired the conviction that the sun of your old age shall illumine
the equivalent scenes as did that of your youth.

As for me--thrown onto the earth want a disinherited child, born towards feel happiness, and never
locating it--I wander from climate towards climate, with the sentiment
of my constantly misery.

 Many people fill their houses with items that remind them of dismay. They have the
old hat-stand in the hall, laden with war helmets, and they would rather sleep in a room, surrounded
by disgusting nose-caps.
I, the poet, am not like that. 

Jones explains that they refer to active sexual activities or tendencies. He also says that early
in life occures a divorce between hate and love.

The most important reactions of a person are dominated by the antagonism between love and
hate. From this doubt, results a state of doubt, an incapacity for decision. The patient experiences
two conditions. In the first he can't act even though he wants to.

In the second, he is obliged to act even though he does not want to. This symptom is the symbol
of the conflicting forces.

These represent two kinds of force. One is the repressed force, the other is the repressing
force

. "We understand, don't say anthing else about us! Go from there."

"A
father and son are in this business together," he answered.

"The father does most of the work and the son gets a generous share of his profits. Things are going
great. But suddenly a claimant shows up wanting a big slice of this property. This claimant is
the only son of the father's eldest brother, a brother he didn't
know he had.

He supposedly died in infancy. The father which is my father was named after him. Now my grandfather's
will stated that the largest share of his fortune be left to his oldest son named Walter. He
was whom I supposed to be my father but was really Gerald Edmonson's father this of course if proof
is valid. They are having a thorough overhauling."
 Learning through intellectural activities can make up physical limitations.
I kind of learnd how to bowl through reading the Cricket Field daily and nightly and by working
at least five hours a day. This was a quite accomplishment considering
i was in a bowlerless country.

People treated me much higher in the sporting society than i really was, especially if you consider
we were still reading Bell's Life in our remote parts of the pastoral
districts.

 

As an effect there will be a decent path force force lines through the core's iron and very minute
change in the amount of lines passing the the armature winding. However, as the armature flange's
corners move from the pole piece's corners there is a sudden conditional change. This change is best
demonstrated by referring to the right hand position of Fig. 71.

The force lines lie perpendicularly to the center portion of the armature core and could no longer
find a pathway to it. 

And this drove him to near madness. He sad there, alone in front of his fire, imagining all these
doubts locking them away in the deep synapses of his all to fragile mind. The next day, he flung
into action as he never had before. He made it his mission to shut out that voice of hers, his
better half that he had intimately felt, into the virtual unknown. He figured, if he could just
be so tired not to think of her, he would succeed at not causing such misery in his life. Or at
least that was the plan.

He often would dream of her letters, her beautiful voice, and most often...the hideous future
without her. However, this idea
was enough for Sheriff Jones and his bosses. They quickly arranged a raid of the town. November
21 was the date of the murder; November 26 was the date of the rescue. (Footnote: November
27, 1855, order from Shannon to Richardson.) As the aptitude whose possessions are to be neutralized
is dispersed regularly all over the line, the counteracting inductance necessity as well is dispersed
right through the line. Meager augment of reserve among two chains of the row very gladly act both
to augment the inductance and to inferior the capability; miserably for sensible fallout, the
augment of severance to bring the character into useful neutralize relation is away from sensible
limits.

The chains would require being so far on top of the ground and so far separately as to create
the agreement commercially impractical.  Practical fallout has been protected in ever-increasing
the dispersed inductance by packaging fine level wire over each performer of the line. Such a
management increases the inductance and improves communication.
The mainly marked victory has come as an answer of the study of lecturer Michael Dorsey Pupin. He
inserts inductances in succession with the chains of the row, so adapt them to the constants
of the route that reduction and deformation are diminished in a satisfying degree. This process
of counteracting the property of a dispersed aptitude by the introduction of contained inductance
require not simply that the obligatory full quantity of inductance be known, but that the correct
section and spacing of the restricted portion of that inductance
be recognized.

Note down. United States Letters Patent were issued to lecturer Pupin on June 19, 1900, ahead
his sensible technique of plummeting decrease of electrical waves.

A document upon "dissemination of Long Electric Waves" was read by lecturer Pupin before the American
Institute of Electrical Engineers on March 22, 1899, and appears in Vol. 15 of the Transactions
of that society. The scholar will find these papers useful in his study on the subject. He is referred
also to "Electrical Papers" and "Electromagnetic Theory" of Oliver Heaviside.
Professor Pupin likens the communication of thrilling impression over
long-distance circuit to the broadcast of mechanical impression over
a sequence.

Consider an ordinary light string to be permanent at one end and stunned by the hand at the additional;
waves will pass over the thread from the surprised to the permanent end. Convinced reflection
will occur from the fixed end. The amount of power which can be sending in this folder from the
stunned to the fixed summit is small, but if the thread be burdened by attach bullets to it,
consistently all through its span, it now may send out much more force to the permanent stop.

The accumulation of inductance to a handset line is comparable to the accumulation of ammunition
to the thread, so that a handset line is said to be full when inductances are inserted in
it, and the inductances themselves are recognized as load coil.

Fig. 35 shows the common relation of Pupin loading coils to the aptitude of the line. The condensers
of the shape are merely conventional to symbolize the condenser which the row itself forms.
The inductances of the shape are the definite loading coil.

The loading of release ropes is not as successful in perform as is that of cable. The elementary
rationale deceit in the fact that two of the properties of open wires--insulation and capacity--vary
with atmospheric modify.

The insert inductance residual steady, its reimbursement may happen to detriments when the
other two "constants" modify.

The loading of lead circuits is not topic to these defects. Such loading improves broadcast;
saves copper; permits the use of longer dissident lead than are working when not laden; lowers preservation
expenses by insertion interurban cables subversive; and permit marine handset cables to connect
seats not if not able to talk with each additional.
Underground long-distance line now joins or is joining Boston and New York, Philadelphia and
New York, Milwaukee and Chicago. England and France are associated
by a laden marine wire. There is no hypothetical motive why Europe
and America should not talk to each other. 

In the final case a 44 ship was pitted against a 38. The two compared
almost exactly as the figures would suggest. It isn't unusual that
she should win, but such a commanding win was unexpected. 

The great resources of Illinois were shown in every department of the exposition
That which held the most commanding and was pretentious of all the State buildings is the State
House. Though not on the Plateau of States, it held a generous verandas
and a wealth of ornament.

Sitting west of the Cascade Gardens, across from the gardens of Japan and directly south of the
Lincoln Museum and was an important part of another State group on the Trail.
Though modern in treatment , the State House was designed in the French
Renaissance times. Every one of them knows where he is going and when. It is likely that a few of
them will get lost, but on some days snipe will be in one particular place and the golden plover
will be in another one. Huge numbers of the birds will die in floods and stormy weather and
quite a few more will unfortunately be killed by human beings. The key to this adversity lies
in the distinction between understanding as verified and accomplished, and the identical understanding
as in transit and on its way.

To recur to the Memorial Hall demonstration recently utilised, it is only when our concept
of the Hall has really terminated in the percept that we understand 'for certain' that from
the starting it was really cognitive of THAT.

Until established by the end of the method, its value of understanding that, or really of understanding
any thing, could still be doubted; and yet the understanding actually was there, as the outcome
now shows.

We were VIRTUAL knowers of the Hall long before we were declared to have been its genuine knowers,
by the percept's retroactive validating power. Just so we are 'mortal' all the time, by cause
of the virtuality of the inescapable happening which will make us so when it will have come.

Now the immensely larger part of all our understanding not ever gets after this virtual stage.
It not ever is accomplished or hammered down.

I talk not only of our concepts of imperceptibles like ether-waves
or dissociated 'ions,' or of 'ejects' like the contents of our neighbors'
minds; I talk furthermore of concepts which we might verify if we
would take the problem, but which we contain for factual altho unterminated
perceptually, because not anything states 'no' to us, and there is
no contradicting reality in sight.

TO CONTINUE THINKING UNCHALLENGED IS, NINETY-NINE TIMES OUT OF A HUNDRED, OUR PRACTICAL SUBSTITUTE
FOR KNOWING IN THE COMPLETED SENSE. As each know-how sprints by cognitive transition into
the next one, and we nowhere seem a collision with what we in another
location enumerate as reality or detail, we consign us to the present
as if the dock were sure.

We reside, as it, were, upon the front for demonstration of an accelerating wave- crest, and
our sense of a determinate main heading in dropping ahead is all
we cover of the future of our path.

It is as if a differential quotient should be attentive and heal itself as an ample alternate
for a traced-out curve. Our know-how, inter alia, is of variations of rate and of main heading,
and inhabits in these transitions more than in the journey's end.

The knowledge of inclination are adequate to proceed upon--what more could we have DONE at
those instants even if the subsequent verification arrives complete?
This is what, as a fundamental empiricist, I state to the ascribe that the target quotation
which is so flagrant a feature of our knowledge engages a chasm and a mortal leap. A positively
conjunctive transition engages neither chasm neither leap. Being the very initial of what we signify
by continuity, it makes a continuum while it appears. Objective quotation is an occurrence
of the detail that so much of our know-how arrives as an insufficient and comprises of method
and transition.
 "Take, for example, his account of how he came into contact with the girl again Birchill
Fanning. After an argument with Sir Horace, came to Riversbrook with a message for Hill, who
was practically a threat.

Now not seem likely? girl who was in the habit of visiting Sir Horace overcome to see Hill
No woman in the circumstances would do something like .. had too good an opinion of her to take
a message a clerk at a house in which she was expelled by the owner,
who was keeping them.

How would she feel if she had run into Sir Horace? It is true that Sir Horace left for Scotland
the day before, but it is unlikely that the girl had an argument with Sir Horace knew two
weeks before the exact date on which he intended to go and how to
behave when Hill received the message.?

According to his story, he agreed to go and Birchill see the danger
of exposure, and has agreed to become an accomplice to burglary for
the same reason Sir Horace. knew all about Hill's past, so why should
they fear a threat of exposure?

"
Hill explained that, "interposed Rolfe. "He stressed that while Sir Horace knew his past, he
could not afford to have any scandal about it."
"Really, but could allow Birchill. To threaten a man who was under the protection of Sir Horace
Birchill Fewbanks would pit himself against Sir Horace? I think Sir Horace knowing the law well
enough, it soon found a way Birchill deal with. If Birchill Hill was threatened, his first impulse,
knowing that a powerful protector in Sir Horace had Fewbanks, was to go to him and seek his
protection against the dangerous old associate of the convict's days.

According to Hill's own story, he was something of an official nature
confidential, trusted to a certain extent, the secrets of Sir Horace's
double life.

What more likely than such a man, threatened that he describes, should turn to his master, who
protected him and trust him? "
 I would still like to speak more about the
many splendid trips made across the interior plains, mountains, and
deserts before the construction of Pacific Railroad, with ordinary
“Doughertys” drawn by four smart mules, accompanied by soldiers,
one with carbine or loaded musket in hand seated alongside the driver,
while two more, with loaded rifles swung in the loops made for them,
were seated in the back; the baggage was very light, and it consisted
of a bag of oats instead of grass, and for the mules to be fastened
while camping.

I have traveled in this mode with an outfit of two, three, or four, for eighteen hundred miles
in one season, usually from post to post, covering about two hundred miles a week, with the same
promptness as a steam-car covers five hundred miles a day; but those are a dream now, and,
while recognizing the great national advantages of the more rapid transport, I regret the change.
Here I record one instance which happened in 1866: We climbed the Rocky Mountains to the Sangre-de-Cristo
Pass, while returning from Fort Garland, along a bumpy and sidling road eastwards. Getting down
I walked ahead for four miles and waited for my “Dougherty”.

When I saw a wagon coming down the road, after nearly an hour, I could not recognize as my own
till it drew closer. It was upset; the top curved in and was beyond repair. So we turned away
to a camp of cavalry near the Spanish Peaks. Major A--- and his accomplished wife received us
with hospitality.

A large hospital-tent, were dozen beautiful greyhounds were roaming freely was occupied by them.
We renewed our journey the next morning once the ambulance was repaired, escorted by the major
and his wife on their fine saddle horses

.
 The universal source of the art and rite of Osiris is the forceful, world-wide wish
for that the life of Nature which looked like dead should inhabit again. This universal emotional
element it is that makes art and rite in their beginnings well-nigh
indistinguishable.

Both, to commence with, exact reproduce an play-act, but not at the
commencing for the sake of the copy.

Only when the sensitivity deceases down and is lost does the exact reproduce become an end in
itself, a simple mimicry.
It is this heading down way, this descending of making to mimicry, that makes us now-a-days consider
of rite as a unexciting and schematic thing. Because a rite has finished to be trusted in,
it does not in the slightest chase that it will finish to be done.
We have to imagine with all the immense forces of habit. Subcinereo-nigra; oculis albido submarginatis; thorace
vittis tribus cinereis, vittis duabus lateralibus, scutelli subquadrati margine, tibiis intermediis
tarsisque albidis; alis nigricantibus, fasciis duabus integris duabusque
macularibus incompletis albidis.

Male.
With resemblance to the genus Platystoma, but quite different from Lamprogaster; this species
and the two that follow, which are even more aberrant are likely
to be regarded as three new genera.

125. LAMPROGASTER CELYPHOÏDES, n. s. Mas et Foem. Atra, nitens, brevis,
lata; capite, antennis pedibusque testaceis; abdomine nigro-cyaneo;
alis limpidis, strigis transversis subcostalibus fuscescentibus.
Both Male and Female. Wide, deep black, short. Zen closely connected
with Bushido teaches us , inspiring to the rising generation with
the spirit of the Samurai to give birth to hundreds of Nogis, having
combination of all positive qualities of loyalty, bravery, self-control,
and self-sacrifices etc. 
CHAPTER III 
THE UNIVERSE IS THE SCRIPTURE[FN#107]
OF ZEN 
1.

Scripture is no More than Waste Paper
[FN#107] Zen is not followed of any particular sutra, either of Mahayana or of Hinayana. There
are dual Tripitakas (or the three collections of the Buddhist scriptures)-namely, the Mahayana-tripitaka
and the Hinayana-tripitaka.

Mahayana is reformed Buddhism of deep metaphysical reasonings. Early Buddhism is simple and ethical
teaching is Hinayana. These twofold Tripitakas are as follows:
THE MAHAYANA-TRIPITAKA.
The Sutra Pitaka.-The Saddharma-pundarika-sutra, Samdhi-nirmocana-sutra, Avatamsaka-sutra, Prajnyaparamita-sutra,
Amitayus-sutra, Mahaparinirvana-sutra, etc.
The Vinaya Pitaka.--Brahmajala-sutra, Bodhisattva-caryanirdeca, et
The Abhidharma Pitaka.-Mahaprajnyaparamita-sutra, Mahayana-craddhotpada-castra,
Madhyamaka-castra, Yogacarya bhumi-castra, etc. 
Almost all of the
northern Buddhist records agree the term 'Tripitaka,' was not known
at the time of Shakya Muni, and that the Tripitaka was rehearsed and
settled in the same year in which the Muni died.

"Abhidharma-pitaka, the book was compiled preaching god, arranged
in due order by 500 Budhu priests."-- says Mahavansa.

This Sinhala Budhist also says that Shakya Muni's teaching was known to the early Buddhists
as Vinaya and Dharma and not as Tripitaka. We have it in Emporor Ashoka's (who ascended the
throne about 269 B.C.) Edicts, that it was not called Tripitaka, but Dharma. Mahayanists have
different opinion on who rehearsed the Abhidharma; they agree as for the other respects. They
are unanimous that the compilation of the Tripitaka is in the first council of Rajagrha, in
the following this fact can be observed.

The Sutra Pitaka, compiled by Ananda; the Vinaya Pitaka, compiled by Upali; the Abhidharma Pitaka,
compiled by Ananda--according to Nagarjuna (Mahaprajnyaparamita-castra)
There are reasons to discredit the compilation of Abhidharma Pitaka at the first council. Above disagreements
are clearly violation of presumptions of uncertainty of logical assertion of the statements.
Judging from the Dharma-gupta-vinaya and other records Purna did not take part in the first
council and have different opinions as to the application of the rules of discipline from that
of Kashyapa, king of Sri Lanka, who ruled the country from 473 to 495 AD. Also there are some
errors in Paramartha's assertion. The teachings on Sutra and Vinaya, of Mahayana, as well as
of Himayana,are directly told by Shakya Muni because all the instructions are put in the mouth
of the Master or sanctioned by him. The Mahayanists, compare the Hinayana doctrine with a resting-place
on the road for a traveller, while the Mahayana doctrine with his
destination.

All the congregations united under a common faith Buddhism, with a single exception of Zen,
are based on the authority of some particular sacred writings.
The author of Lankavatara-sutra insists that Shakya Muni spoke no word through his long career
of forty-nine years as a religious teacher, Mahaprajnyaparamita-sutra[FN#108] also express the
same opinion.Zen is based on the highest spiritual plane attained by Shakya Muni himself,
who has attained the same plane.

Even Gotama feels words are beyond the power. The Scripture is pointing to the brightness
of Buddhahood. As the finger has no brightness when we enjoy moon and its growing beauty,
the finger is of no use. The Scripture is having holiness or not do not merit. It is a religious
currency of spiritual wealth. Whether money be gold, or sea-shells, or cows, are only substitutes.
it stands for is of paramount importance. Away with your stone-knife!(Ahimsa)
 Having sent a new pack of soldiers to conquer Moorish garrison
there, the people living there were proud to make a donation, in return for the security and
strength which billed them; for previous to this, they had been exposed to regular pillage from
the Arabs of the adjacent country, to whom they had been compelled
to pay tribute, as a security for their caravans, which were constantly
passing the country of these Arabs, who are of the race of Brabeesh.

 HAKLUYT,
RICHARD.  The principal Navigational, Voyages, Traffickers and Discoveries of the English Nation,
made by Sea or borderland, to the remote and farthest distant quarters
of the Earth, at any time within the compass of these 1500.

Yerkes: Derided into three several Volumes, according to the positions of the Regions, hereunto
they were directed. This first Volume containing the worthy Discoveries, &c. of the English
toward the North and Northeast by sea, as of Lapland, Scriabin, Coralie, the Basie of S. Nicolas,
the Isles of Colgate, Variegate, and Nona Emblazon, towards the great riser Ob, with the mighty
Empire of Russia, the Caspian sea, Georgia, Armenia, Media, Persia,
Bogart in Bactria, and diners kingdoms of Tartaric: Together with
many notable monuments and testimonies of the ancient Forrest trades,
and of the warlike and other shipping of this realm of England in
former ages.

Hereunto is annexed also a briefer Commentaries of the true state of Island, and of the Northern
Seas and lands situate that way.  And lastly, the memorable defeat of the Spanish huge Armada, Anni
1588. and the famous victories achieved at the cutie of Cadiz, 1596. are described. By Richard
Hakluyt Master of Arte's, and sometime Student of Christ-Church in Oxford.  Imprinted at London
by George Bishop, Ralph Newbie and Robert Barker.

1598.  =B. L.= F^o. (11½ × 7½). E. 1. 1.  Collation: *-2*⁶A-3E⁶3F⁴, paged. Wanting
all after 3E 3, containing the account of the victory at Cadiz, also the petrographical map.
Epistle dedicatory to Charles Howard, Earl of Nottingham, signed. Preface with postscript containing
errata.  Commendatory verses from Hugo Brighton (Greek), Rich. Simulcast (2 copies, Lat.),
Guglielma Camden's (Lat.), and Marc’ Antonio Pigtail (It.).

Table of contents. The portion wanting at the end was suppressed, but is found in BM, 683.
h. 5.  In some copies (e.g. Grills 31, 148) a cancel with digs. a-d (last leaf blank) has been
substituted. The map to this volume, which is wanting in the present copy, was the first English
map on Mercator’s projection.  There is another title page to the present volume (found in
the Grylls copy) which is dated 1599 and has various differences from that given above.
Sinker 419 (1). BM 760.  =B. L.= F^o. (11½ × 7½). E. 1. 2.  Collation: *⁸A-2C⁶3A-3R⁶,
paged.

Epistle dedicatory to Sir Robert Cecil, signed. Table of contents. Part ii begins with fresh pagination
and head-title at sig. 3A 1.  Sinker 419 (2). BM 760.  The third and previous amount of the
Voyages, Navigation, Traffickers, and Discoveries of the English country, and in a few spaces, where
they contain not been, of strangers, performed during and before the time of these hundred being,
to every of the New found world of America, or the West Indies, on or after 73. Degrees of Northerly
to 57. of Southerly autonomy: As namely to gronland , Meta Incognito, Scotland, Terra DE Labrador,
Newfoundland, up The grand bay, the gulf of S. Laurence, and the River of Canada to Michelangelo
and Sanguinary, along the coast of Arabic, to the seashore and mains
of Virginia and Florida, and on the West or rear of them both, to
the rich and pleasant countries of Queue Biscay an, Ci bola, Tiger,
Cyclic, Queer, to the 15. provinces of the King dome of New Mexico,
to the bottomed of the golfed of California, and up the River of Brena
Gaia: And likewise to all the yells both small and enormous insincere
before the cape of Florida, The bay of Mexico, and Terra forma, to
the coasts and In lands of Newel Spain, Terra forma, and Guiana, up
the mighty Ricers of Onerous, Desiree, and Marna, to every part of
the coast of Brazil, to the River of Plate, through the Straights
of Magellan ahead and backward, and to the South of the said Straights
as far as 57. degrees: And from thence on the flip side of America,
along the coasts, harbors, and capes of Chili, Peru, Nicaragua, Unequal
Spanner, Queue Galicia, Celia, California, Nona Albion, and more Northerly
as fare as 43. degrees: mutually with the two notorious, and affluent
voyages of Sir Francis Drake and M. Thomas Can bowl as regards about
the circumference of the whole earth, and ciders other voyages intended
and set forward for that track.

 The impropriation of this city of Diseworth was
an inheritance of three sisters, whereof two became votaries; one in the nunnery of Langly in the
parish of Diseworth, valued at the suppression, I mean the whole
nunnery, at thirty-two pounds per annum, and this sister's part is
yet enjoyed by the family of the Grayes, who now, and for some years
past, have the enjoyment and possession of all the lands formerly
belonging to the nunnery in the parish of Diseworth, and are at present
of the yearly value of three hundred and fifty pounds per annum.

One of the sisters gave her part of the great tithes unto a religious house in Bredon upon the
Hill; and, as the inhabitants report, became a religious person afterwards.  The third sister
wedded, and her part of the tithes in succeeding ages became the Earl of Huntingdon's, who
not many years since sold it to one of his servants.  The donation of the vicarage is in the
present of the Grayes of Langley, unto whom they pay yearly, (I mean unto the Vicar) as I
am informed, six pounds per annum.

Lately some charitable citizens have purchased one-third portion of the tithes, and given it for
repairs of a preaching minister, and it is now of the value of about fifty pounds per annum.
There have been two hermitages in this parish; the last hermit was
well remembered by one Thomas Cooke, a very ancient citizen, who in
my younger years acquainted me therewith.

This town of Diseworth is divided into three parishes; one part belongs under Locington, in which
part standeth my father's residence, over-against the west end of
the steeple, in which I was born: some other farms are in the parish
of Bredon, the rest in the parish of Diseworth.

 

And while it may be warmly recommended to readers as the only desire to find an interesting story,
deserves no less warm recommendation so you can understand the attention to one of the most
striking and dramatic episodes of modern history, and for gaining a of events that show great
example in the current state and the hopes of Italy. In this regard, as well as the skill
with which it is written that can be categorized fairly novels Ruffini, -. Doctor Antonio ","
Lorenzo Benoni "and for those who have read these two books not to say that this is a great
compliment.  The story is not treated by the author of "Miss Mori" a common way of novelists.
Events are not misrepresented in it, nor are the characters of prominent actors in public affairs
distorted to fit any theory, or to promote interest in history.

The main value of the book, which should ensure a permanent place,
however, consists of an official narrative of events, or images of
the individuals mentioned, but in its representation of the states
of mind and feeling the Romans during the early years of the pontificate
of Pope today, objects and methods of action of different parts was
then called to active existence, one of the times of rapid changes
in the disposition popular from the time Pius IX . was the idol of
the crowd that when he was a fugitive unfaithful to Gaeta, and the
causes that led to disappointment and failure of the efforts of the
Roman patriots.

We know of no book that so clever and so true an account of these
things, which were the springs of the events cast, and underlying
all its currents, is located.

The author's sympathies are with the Liberal Party, the party that
worked to reform, but not for a republic, and whose hopes and plans
were crushed by the horrible murder of Rossi.

It is one of the most disastrous of a tyranny like the one practiced in Rome, which makes this
gradual progress of reform at any time in which to carry out nearly impossible, and sows the seeds
of violence inevitable and revolution, which is suitable for this, as in the Roman case, in
a return to despotism.
The view given of the revolution and the Roman Republic in 1849 by
the author of "Miss Mori" is basically in line with that adopted by
Farini, and the other Italian head of state today, and their accuracy
and meaning common are confirmed by the recent course of events, not
only Rome but other parts of Italy.

It is useless to predict the future of a state as anomalous as that of Rome, but it is safe
to say that the Romans learned much from their last revolution, and are learning a lot of results,
so that when comes a new opportunity for them to earn some of that freedom that northern Italy
has been so happy in the collection, I will not repeat their past
mistakes and will not find less competent for the freedom of the Tuscan
or the people of the Romagna.

 

All voices heard, we examined all the ways that happened in quick succession, but he was lonely,
and determined not to get carried away by the sounds, as he had occupied his attention, but
instead look around and observe eccentricities with which he was surrounded. Walking along this
state of mind, was assaulted today by a voice behind him, exclaiming: "Bob -  "Bob, if you
want to go safely, especially the Tarn, and ensure the gift."
Upon hearing this, turned round hastily, and met a group of chimney-sweepers,
who immediately established a noise with their brushes and shovels,
while dancing in true style round of May-day he and a strapping Irish
fish-wife, who was unable to complete the exercise, and most of the
observation, while a universal laughter around him as the joy of its
excited state; Hibernian and the Maiden, with genuine sympathy Irish,
tried to calm her shaking disgust in his muscular arms, and red print
on his cheek a kiss.

This only served to increase his happiness and increase confusion, particularly in his cher
ami swore he had not had a bus like the death of his beloved own dead and gone Phelim, the last
of her four husbands, who died of whiskey fever, screaming by Prates and buttermilk, and woke
up in a coal shed.
This mark of favor with the lady was not as well received by Tallyho, and determined to make his
escape, Moll has given him a violent adventure, turned to her and her basket, knock'd two of
the chimney-sweepers and then with a jump as if he had been in a
jump of five-door with bars, jumped over his partner died, which was
growing between the gases of frauds, and made their way, to the inexpressible
amusement of those who , after enjoying a laugh in it, now transferred
their risibility to those left behind.

Finding himself once more chains, the whip smack'd with enthusiasm, and repeated his Tallyho with
greater effect, because it was answered immediately and without waiting for final closure, he
found the person you are ~ 409 ~ ~ procedure is none other than a Turk, who was rushed into
a room, and was the most quickly recognized by him as the Hon. Dashall Tom. The alteration that
had taken a Turkish turban and fur on his person, yet they have effectively operated as a bar to
this discovery, if it had not seized him at the time of the rant, and although his cousin had been
the cause principal of the adventures that had already met with him, while he keeps an eye on
Bob, and has also been instrumental in effecting his release from shame.
"Come," said Tom, "I favor a little concert in the Room - How long
have you been here - I should know, very few can dress me?

Now we watch in half an hour, and enjoy excited by the joy of others.

"
"With all my heart," said Bob, "because I am almost as tired as if he had spent a whole day in
a fox-hunting, and have run many risks in my neck, so that the observation of a half-hour cold
will be very acceptable. "
They had just entered the room, as Priscilla Tomboy sped them with a rope, for which each property
is formed, and, after having jumped across the room to show their shapely anchor and flexibility
of the limbs left for a moment and returned with a large doll, which appeared happy as when
I was a boy of eight or ten years old.

A Tom Salta said Jemmy, his clothes were completely inadequate for the nation where he lived,
and recommended that there should be another day without this appendix is now very fashionable
dress called gentleman stays - An excellent Quotem Caleb replica for its elegance and relentless
volubility of expression when describing their work in a day - "a summer day, as the poet says,
that offers fun both for its power outside the Fribble talking about
a Staymaker, who, be confused by his eternal clack, fled in search
of another customer.

 I proceed to establish that the Church considers that this scandal is less serious and
less common that it really is, more so in the middle class, where
those openly condemn religion or strictly live by the book.

 Is it true?
If our words are taken from other languages because of convenience or need, why wouldn't our
forefothers form words like "goods, news, and riches" from their
roots, like good, new, and rich?

Though the word "news" is a singular noun, it is really plural with
the difficulty of not having a noun as a root.

The singular's absence makes the way of formation of a plural noun from an adjective difficult,
more than plural nouns normally formed without singulars, like measles
or clothes.

Mr. Hickson says, "What of these words? Are they all singluar nouns imported from other languages?"
He does not see any other irregularities in language formation.
Noise-- Mr. Hickson believes that the old derivations of the word "noise" do not explain its
origins, and I agree, but his is far worse. In your columns, we don't know who has the right
pronunciation of the word "neues." Mr. Editor, you agree with Mr. Hickson in giving the German sound
"eu" the pronunciation of "oi" in noise. I am not convinced, and will not pronounce it as fully
as the "oi."

This is not significant, though, and I am happy to forget it with
Mr. Hickson.

The derivation does not make sense to me, and I doubt it appeals to anyone who was not bitten
by a fancy.
I said before that I do not know "noise"'s derivation, but it is probably
with annoy, noisome, and the French noire, the Latin's nocere, which
is noxa.

The french word "noise," even with its different meaning, probably shares the same root, as
well. I'm not swearing by it, but the usual meaning of noise, "a loud sound" or "disturbance," is
its primary meaning. This agrees with my notion of its alliances. The French word sharing the
definition of English's word noise, Bruit, has more of a connotation of a disturbance than the
English word noise. "Il y a du bruit" means "There is a fight."

I'm only bringing out this parallel case to noise, bruit, because perhaps "a loud sound" is
it's primary, but "a rumor" is its secondary denotation.
I am certain that there are numerous times, and anchient times, where
our poets and prose writers use the noun annoy.

I recall Mr. Wordsworth's passage-- "There, at Blencatharn's rugged feet, Sir Lancelot gave
a safe retreat To noble Clifford; from annoy Concealed the persecuted
boy."

Parliament-- Franciscus's derivation for the word "parliament" is bretheren to Mr. Hickson's etymology
of news and noise. He is rediculous, in my opinion, but other readers might take him seriously
and be tricked into a rediculous explanation of the word.

Please let me explain to you that Palam mente, literally translated as "before the mind,"
exhorbitantly streched to mean "freedom of thought or deliberation,"
or stretched to get Parliament, is stretched too far to even make
sense.

FRANCISCUS will follow the fortune he claims befell his predecessors--stumbling into limine.
 He has now been over sixteen years
in prison, and has therefore paid dearly for thwarting your will, and his wife has all this
time been confined in a convent. Hereby appeares the obvious error of compelled plaines, viz.
your crust in the smaller components, is couered with the crust of the higher components, and
both with poorer earth: your heights hauing the crust taken away, are become meerely barren:
in order that either you should force a new crust, or haue an euill
soile.

And be certain you leuell, before you vegetation, lest you be compelled to remoue, or injure
your plants by cutting into, and casting amidst their roots. Your ground should be cleered as
much as you may of pebbles, and grauell, partitions, hedges, bushes, & other weeds
 

At the end of the conference, Mr. Grenville took my hand and squeezed again. He kissed the ladies
and withdrew. He kissed the maid in the kitchen as he seemed to be a kind hearted gentleman.
He is young and gentle and handsome. He has a pair of kind and piercing eyes but he also carry a
monocle chained and suspended from his buttonhole.

The boys are hollering and dogs are barking somewhere out there and cats are scampering about.
He withdrew out of the house. We told stories of adventures among ourselves and made the night
merry and soon after settled into quiet night not to be interrupted any more. I am glad I have no
interest in the matter for which he sued. If I had I had to refuse him since he is on the side
of Crown over dispute between Crown and Commons. It is comforting to know you in a position
of no consequence in the world where you can not offend or disoblige
someone.

The town seems to be on his side and if he is equally liked all around the country he is sure
to be elected. Mr. Ashburner may have been a little mortified to see him visit me to his misplaced
importance to my position in this matter. But had he thought to inform Mr. Grenville of my
pandering to multiple parties, I would have been bound to respond one way or another. ***********
Now rekindle the fire and pull the shutters quick. Let curtains fall and move the sofa around.
While hissing and bubbling urn steams up a column of steam and let the cups that make us drunk
but not yet. They are cheerful to our eyes. So, let us welcome this evening in peace.
COWPER.--The Winter Evening. XXVII.

FROM "THE SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL."[G] RICHARD BRINSLEY SHERIDAN.--1751-1816.

SCENE.--A Room in SIR PETER TEAZLE'S House. Enter SIR PETER TEAZLE.
Sir Pet. What an old bachelor supposed to do when he marries a young wife? What is he to expect?
It has been six months since Lady Teazle married me and made me the happiest man. I have been
the wet dog, most miserable of them all, ever since. 

The fact is that he promoted the authority of the King as a foil for
the mob mentality of the French Revolution.

The common people of the time were rabid with freedom, and needed a firm hand to discipline
them. The coming of Bismark’s empire was not simply a political rise to power built on defeating
other political figures.

The German people craved a strong ruler, and this fact is often overlooked.
Ultimately, Bismark stood for national security in the Prussion tradition: as a warlord leading the
masses rather than a master ruling over them. His position resulted from the national notion
among the people that a strong central figure was necessary to maintain the authority of the
nation. Sewers, drains, conduitspipes, and
fixtures are marked by Forest park as the property of the city .The authority for this was given
to them by the prevalent rules.This information was given to the
bidders who were interested in biidding the iron piping.

 "Third. Allclaims are considered as
proper against the United States only, and are classed accordingly for the following: services
and substances of the levies and militia, or other military people, composing a part of the continental
army, or destined to join the army, and moving to such places of destination, or under the command
or orders of a continental officer, and all claims for supplies and services beforehand for
such troops. Furthermore, the commissioners are paying much closer attention for this distinction
by the reasons just before mentioned. They have been given authority by the practice of the
continental commissioners to settle accounts and declare that the accounts and demands were
proper against the United States. The wording of this resolution is very suggestive,
and it shouldn't be criticized very much. The tone of the resolution hints at a dark design,
which must be in harmony with the unkind tone that fills the platform.
 Balfour, QC who was on the Front Opposition bench said, "This is a great
example of the mistakes that smart people sometimes make. I've been acquainted with the judge
for many years, we've been opposed to each other as judges, worked in the same divisions of government,
and I have to say it shocks me somewhat that it's been said he seeks
out controversial decisions for himself.

I'm rather sanguine myself, but don't always think that I'm going to hang back. Like Henry Arthur
Wilson proclaimed when he stood over a makeshift card table with chalk between his fingers,
things need to be delineated at some point and I think the right place is where my acquaintance
Harcourt gets charged with purposely breaching peace in the House."--Still when talking about
the Land Bill.
Late Friday: Hard at work on the Land Bill still. it's not gotten
any easier and I've worked an entire week on it.

Today there were the same number of changes on it as Monday. This clause needs me to work
on it all night.

The whole contingent is tired.

Sexton, yes, him too, seems weary. Wasn't as good a night as I'm used to, Sexton only found
the opportunity to open his mouth once, which he used to its full extent.
That's no prize for having lost a good chance.
I spoke to the pitiful Speaker because of it, said that though everything seemed pretty awful,
there were ways this could get way worse.
"Toby, guess so. Have you ever browsed Prior?", he asked me.
It's been several summers since I checked him, but tonight after this
grueling week one of his couplets comes to mind.

ABRA was prepared before I spoke her appellation, and despite my
calling somebody else, she arrived 
Exactly the way Sexton will
I think.

I finished this, adding another clause to the Land Bill.
Ashen Primates of Long Years
"Young people think grey hair is way cool", says a pretty smart guy. That's kind of odd isn't
it, that everyone should go for that bit of strangeness: faking being older.
Even younger women pour dust onto their pates to give it an aged look.
They make their brows snow white and do the same to their eyelashes, the vain things. All creation's
fine white powders, I guess they'll be attaching lines of age and
deep furrows around the eyes next (hiring makeup artists to do so).

This won't be the only thing that'll make everyone older, they'll be making maidens into crazy demented
hags soon, but at least they won't be hypocrites.
Acting, Music, and Law:
The Daily Telegraph, sourcing from the Middlesex County Times, the previous Saturday, said that
"The Lord Chancellor supplemented Mr. W. S. Gilbert's name to the group responsible for the
good order and lawfulness of Middlesex. Another man with the initials
W. S., Shakespeare, who also had a Gilbert in his extended familial
relations, was made a judge . This seems a fitting, if eccentric,
title for Mr. William Shakespeare Gilbert. She greeted him very much like an old comrade; offered
him eau sucrée, a drink he had claimed to be a fan of, and even invited him to a meal the following
day.

Yet, there was an air of despair shadowing the guileless youngster's
features, and I queried him even more. 

We encounter an example of this prayer within the compile onto the day of St. Saturnine. "O
God, whom grantest ourselves towards enjoy the birth-day of the blessed Saturnine, thy martyr,
grant that we may be helped via his merits, across the Lord."

[Ejus nos tribue meritis adjuvari per Dominum. 

The man did as I said. A detail of his mast being yet standing, he organised what they call
a goose-wing sail, that is, a tiny detail of the sail out, just to save the vessel steddy,
and with this we received higher as high as Blackwall; the night time being afterward come
on and pitch black, and the fume enhancing, I suffer'd myself to be gratified to left in there,
though five or six mile condensed of London; though, indeed, I was
resolv'd to venture no farther if the waterman would have done it.

We are not signed higher to presume that this is plain kin of material
of sighting, any more than the History of Robinson Crusoe; but it
is a graphic sketch of life and manners worth the identify of those
any person who examine such things.

It types at least a tiny contribution to the history of journeying in England. A passenger
any person who had just landed from a Gravesend vessel, to chase his tour by land, might well
be thankful to "be received in a coach" like that which had been commenced at York near half
a 100 before.  Alpha. * * * * * {211} NOTES ON THE SECOND EDITION OF MR. CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK
OF LONDON.

Mr. Cunningham's labor on London is a reserve of such overall hobby, that the attachments and
corrections, which I shall extend from time to time to offer to your
readers, cannot, I think, be deemed impertinent or trifling.

Let it not be dreamt, for one single moment, that I hope to depreciate Mr. Cunningham's labours.
On the negatively, his reserve is one of the majority enjoyable books comparative to our great
city which we possess. And let me frankly say, whether I were to choose merely half-a-dozen
volumes for my possess reading, Cunningham's Handbook of London would majority confidently
be one of that number.

The very empty skeleton of time, location, and person, must be fleshed with numerous good passages;
and to this intent I have purposely interlaced (not as meat but as condiment) many stories,
so that the reader, if he do not originate religiosior or doctior,
with more piety or training, at least he may move out jucundior, with
more gratification and lawful delight."

This remark has been well construed by Mr. Cunningham, whose good
sources, and literary and artistic recollections, have organised his
retain a readable one to the many, and an instructive companion for
the initiated.

The "bare skeleton" sometimes trusts "fleshing," and hence the pursuing items of supplements
and corrections:
1.
 

With an INTRODUCTION, by Rev. H.D. WICKHAM, M.A., late of Exeter College, Oxford.
"We might comment on its immense functionality even if we do not mention that such a detailed
Collection is required, and convey our aspiration that Mr. Wickham's work will be valued by all.
 But this objection would be a mistake. Princes of the reform is not as sudden
as not to prepard expected by the public. There are, in fact, a vanity in the mass, and the
behavior of light unweighd if he is among his dissolute companions but innate spark of honor
and nobility of his real break at all relevant times, where we expect to wake up feeling join his
birth and dignity. And our poet has so well and with the art always his usual suspicions Profligateness
can not be reformed because, although the first shows him on stage,
in the first part of Henry IV, when he made his Falstaff consent in
a robbery at participate, the street took care not to carry him off
the stage without a hint that he knows everything, and humor unyokd,
and as the sun, so they just for some time, and the cloud to obscure
his brilliance, and then Condemned fog, where he may himself again
that its Lustre, if necessary, perhaps the most wonderd break.

Another great Shakespeare contact with nature, and is still deep in the joint observation Ken,
was an account by reference to The Tempest, Prospero, interrupted, so that the mask of the spirit,
passion, and began a sudden illness of the mind taken.

Since the underlying cause of his emotion is full inquird, I no longer
live than here.

And it was designd to describe his passion, transport serves to
exaggerate.

As the conduct of Henry in the first instance, the most secret thoughts
and mental, in the case of Prospero, Lear, and if the abuse of power
in a mood to arguments rage, they do full justice to the amazing knowledge
of human nature, which is certainly our masterpiece of opinion, I
think, not too good light could be set.

[Sidenote*: Mr. Addison and He evaluated, on a similar Topick.]
I reject the light of the latent beauties when I made a brief comment
on a remarkable passage from July Csar, which is * incredibly beautiful
in your car, and discovered much of what the authors knowledge and
research in nature.

How beautiful, admits criticism Dionysius, who could not be found,
the big shots, he called the terrible graces in one of the historians,
who met often with Homer.

I think the success would be the same in the same way, if you look in one of our other authors,
in addition to our UK Homer, Shakespeare. This description of the conspirators and terror has
it in a bubble, which is perfectly incredible.

Our excellent Mr. Addison, whose modesty made him sometimes a little uncomfortable in his own
genius, but whose to stop exquisite was always the most reliable guide, as we can see how many fine
lines in Cato Philippic borrowd Cicero, paraphrased this beautiful description, but we know not
expect the Graces terrible it could not prevent the evaporation of the transfusion.
 EVENTS THAT LED UP TO THE WAR WITH AMERICA
Madison tried to get a conciliation from the government, but there would not award him anything.
The non-intercorse act expired in May of 1810, but a provision existed
that, if either Great Britain or France were to revoke their decree
against American trade, the act would protect and restore the powers
outlined in the decree if  cancelled by March 3rd, 1811.

Madison was given false information and believed that Napoleon retracted his decrees on November
1, 1810. As a result, the non-intercorse act was reinstated against Great Britain and its
empire in February, 1811.
One of the first acts that the Liverpool administration undertook
was the cancellation of trade restrictions on America.

 The song of the Kentucky Warbler is unique in the bird world. It's a raucous, clear
whistle containing up to seven notes and in some ways resembles the
Carolina Wren's call. He addressed the tribune another time two days later and
said, "Once before you gave approval for the proposals I made to curb the power the aristocracy
had over real estate. At this point I want to report another aristocracy which must be wiped
out. It has power over reigion, so I'm of course referring to the
clergy." For now, the entire garrison appeared
in the square, and ranged was facing the palace: the king, however, expected that the arrival
of the artillery was to change your choice. In short, the weapons came at a gallop, but to
the dismay of King Otto, who lined the battery from the palace, while
the artillery, as soon as the maneuver was executed, gave a loud shout
of "Long live the constitution.

"
His Majesty, after a long period of silence, appeared in a ground-floor
window of the palace, attended by Captain Bavaria, Hess - the most
unpopular man in Greece, unless Dzine, the actor in the celebrated
cases of judicial torture, could compete with him that 'bad eminence.

" One of the servants of righteousness General Kalergy asked aloud,
and when he came to the window the king asked him - "What is the significance
of this alteration?

What am I to understand your parade of the garrison?"

With this Kalergy said, loudly and clearly: "The people of Greece
and the desire that his Majesty's army to fulfill the promise that
the country should be governed by the Constitution."

Otto King then said: "Retire to your quarters, I will consult my
ministers, the Council of State, and the ambassadors of the three
powers of protection and inform you of my decision."

This seems to the audience to perform the absolute sovereign and not too hard in the circumstances,
and a slight movement of the officers, who heard the words of the king, was sent as a flash to the
troops, so that the king received a different response of the army in a sudden noise of swords and
the sound of gunfire.
 While travelling from Kuopio to Uleåborg was really
tough. Eggs, milk, and black bread with good butter were the only food procurable. Jolting of
the carts was harder, clothes of the party suffered even more than travellers-- shoes, hat men's
coats etc were tearing out due to heavy strain. No time to stop and repair such things as as it
would have damaged us.

It gradually grew to look worse, hair turning gray with dust and
faces getting sun burn.

It was hard to look up to West End style, and beauty possessed as no longer it was delicate
and heavenly,rosy and robust. Grumbling and growling over discomforts are not justified, since
in the best of health and spirits it has been enjoyed and laughed all day. he sufferings and
disagreeables has to be born with.

The philosophy for travelling lonely is not advisable. A pleasant companion adds a hundredfold to
the pleasures of the journey, especially when the friendship is strong . In wild unknown areas,
many hazards have to be faced.

On the memorable drive through Savolax in Northern Finland, we paid a somewhat amusing and typical
visit to a Pappi (clergyman) at a rectory. These country Luthersk
Kyrka (Lutheran churches) are few and far.

The distance between a minister's district often extend to eight or ten miles. Many of the six
or eight thousand parishioners come to church travelling ten miles
or more as in the Highlands of Scotland, where the Free Kirk is almost
identical with the Lutheran Church of Finland.

In both cases the post of minister is advertised as vacant, applicants send in names, which
are graded, and most suitable are asked to come and perform a service, and finally the Pappi of
Finland, or minister of Scotland, is chosen by the people.
Until Andrew Carnegie gave some, rarely there is an organ in the Finnish
country church.

Hardly ever in the Scotch Highlands--each religion has, however, its precentor or Lukkari,
who leads the singing.

Both churches are very simple and plain--merely whitewashed--perhaps
one picture over the altar--otherwise no ornamentation of any kind.On
one of the long drives arrived to a village possessing a church and
a minister all to itself.After an introduction to the Pappi, were
called at the Pappila.

We went in as a small boy told that the Pappi is at home. It was a large house for Finland, where
a pastor is a great person. There were stables and cow-sheds, a granary, and quite a nice-sized
one-storeyed wooden house.
 Another way to look at the pictures by William
Hunt is in comparison to sculpture. The generalness of sculpture fills it with dignity, while the
individual nature of painting lowers it to crass portraiture. I deeply lament that there ought to be anything in
the affair or approach of my Query on this topic to encourage MR. DE MORGAN to respond to
it more as if repelling an offence, than supporting in the analysis
of an exciting query on a topic with which he is believed to be particularly
acquainted.

I can comfort him that I had no further purpose in writing ninth numerically instead of literally,
or in omitting the vocabulary he has restored in brackets, or in italicizing two words to
which I wished my query more predominantly to refer, than that of sparing freedom and avoiding
useless recurrence; and in the employ of the word "usage" relatively than "law," of which he also
complains, I was perchance excessively inclined by the title of his own dissertation, from which
I was quoting. But however I may have erred from precise quotation, it is apparent I did not
misconstrue the sense of the course, since MR. DE MORGAN now repeats
its essence in these words,--  
"I cannot make out that the law
ever acknowledged a day of twenty-four hours, commencement at any
hour excluding midnight."

This is evidently at direct issue with Ben Jonson, whose introduced phrases, "pleaded nonage,"
"wardship," "pupillage," &c., seem to strike too much of permissible expertise to approve
of the hypothesis of poetic authority.
But had I not inadvertently met with an appealing corroboration of Ben Jonson's law of usage, or
usage of law, I should not have put forth my Query at all, nor assumed
to address it to Professor DE MORGAN; my chief cause for so doing
being that the significance attaching to discovered substantiation
of a forgotten usage in legal computation, must of course be augmented
tenfold if it should emerge to have been indefinite to a gentleman
of such profound and accredited research into that and kindred subjects.

In a black -letter octavo entitled A Concordancie of Yeares, published in and for the year
1615, and consequently about the very time when Ben Jonson was writing, I find the subsequent in chap.
xiii.:  "The day is of two sorts, ordinary and simulated: the ordinary day is the space
of 24 hours, in which time the sun is conceded by the first Mover, from the east into the west,
and so round about the world into the east again."
 On the coin of Macrinus, the letter below the S.C. now clearly
appears to be an [Greek: eta].

It is not a [Greek: Delta], but rather an L or inverted T. It cannot stand for [Greek: Lykabas].As
Macrinus was slain by his soldiers the year after his accession. The Etruscilla stresses that
the coin has all the marks which numismatists determine the geguineness of a coin and denides
the coin being plated. Although he may become a companion, he detests being considered a pet. It is
impossible for anyone to meet him without falling in love with him. In fact, Rover is as beloved
and sought after as any other member of the family. 

The proportion of Government bills that were passed during Henry's
reign were less than they are today.

A Government bill ran greater risks of being rejected from becoming law than a private member's
bill. He does not have the appearance of a dare-devil.He looks to be a person with a
certain stubbornness, but it is hard to tell the difference between a stubborn nature and a determined
one.

There is a similar miniature of his son Nathaniel, who was born in
1775 and this person died at Surinam when he was thirty four.

This likeness seems to give the impression of a son much like his father. It also brings out
the similarities of his his own son Nathaniel.

His face is long instead of round, with delicate and rather refined
features, not bold like Daniel's. Having a gentle, dreamy expression
in his portrait, unless this likeness is not factual, he would not
have been the harsh, domineering captain that he has been reputed
as being.

 It seems to me sufficiently abundant, but not flexible
enough and vigorous, but commonly quails under a powerful concept,
if you maintain the dignity of his style, often perceived as a flag
and languish under you, and there are steps America as a relief, as
Greek does to others.

The sciences deal with things very finely, after an artificial, very different from the common and
natural way.

My page makes love, and understands it, but I read Leo Hebraeus -
[Leo the Jew, Ficinus, Cardinal Bembo, and Mario Equicola wrote treatises
about love.] - And Ficinus, which speaks of love, thoughts and actions,
means no. I do not find in Aristotle most of my normal moves, but
they are there covered and disguised in another suit for the use of
schools.

Good speed of them! if I were in trade, which would naturalize art as much as artificialis nature.
Bembo and Equicola let alone.
When I write, I can very well spare both the company and the memory of the books, not to interrupt
my progress, and, in truth, the best authors too humble and discourage me: I am very mind
of the painter who having represented the majority of the cocks terribly
bad, not charged, all their children to suffer any natural cock into
her tent, and there was no need to give me a bit of brightness, of
the invention Antigenides the musician, who, when asked to sing or
play, took care beforehand that the auditorium should, either before
or after being satisfied with some other ill musicians.

But I can not be without Plutarch, who is so universal and so full that at all times, and the
extravagant soever order to take in hand, will still be in his elbow,
and keep you a liberal and not be exhausted hand of wealth and finery.

 

One day only did I observe him cheerful or close to happy--when a Belgian baroness for some justification
came, and was bowed and fed and wined by the delightfully courteous and entirely conducted
Official Captors--"and I recognise of her in Belgium, she is a many female, she is very strong
and she is generous; I plunged on my knees before her, and implored her in the label of my
wife and Le Bon Dieu to intercede in my behalf; and she has made a note of it, and she advised me
she would draft the Belgian King and I will be free in a small number
weeks, FREE!"

The little Machine-Fixer, I eventuate to recognise, did lastly move out La Ferte--for Precigne.
In the kitchen worked a very extraordinary person.

Who was clothed in sabots.

And sang endlessly in a very subdued way to himself as he blended the immense pitch black kettles.
We, that is to declare, B. and I, became acquainted with Afrique very gradually. You did not
recognise Afrique suddenly. You became cognisant of Afrique gradually. You were in the cour, staring
at ooze and dead trees, when a diagram came stepping from the kitchen
elevating its very large lumber feet after it rhythmically, unwinding
a particoloured scarf from its waist as it came, and chorus to itself
in a subdued fashion a jocular, and I dread, unprintable ditty in
view to Paradise.

The diagram moved into the little opening to the cour in a business-like way, unwinding endlessly,
and made stridingly for the cabinet positioned up in resistance to the boulder divider which
split the promenading sexes--dragging behind it on the ground a track
of ever-increasing dimensions.

The cabinet arrived at, track and diagram parted company; the first plunged inert to the limitless
mire, the second referred vanished into the contrivance with a Jack-in-the-box
rapidity.

From which contrivance the carrying on ditty  le 'paradis est une maison...." --Or afresh, it's
a lithe hesitating poise, intensely smart, absolutely perceptive, consigning dryingly a sequence
of certain and fast signs that penetrate the fabric of stupidity unquestionably and whisperingly;
considering one after another short and poignant instupidities, distinct and uncompromising, crunchy and
entirely arrowlike. The poise has a tobacco in its hand, which tobacco it has just pausingly revolved
from material furnished by several mindfully kept butts (whereof Afrique's pouches are always full).
 

Upon seeing Lancelot sitting there pensively, the lady of the house spoke to him: "Sir, for
Heaven's sake and for your own good, tell me the truth, why have
you changed?

You don't eat or drink anything, and you never laugh or act happy.
You can tell me what's bothering you."

"For goodness sake, don't be alarmed by my sadness! Yes, I am unhappy, since I cannot be
where I wish to be - at the tournament where people will gather and make the earth tremor. Nonetheless,
if it is your will and the will of God, you can be sure I will return
to my captivity here."

"I will happily do it," she replied, "if it could not cost me my life. But I am terrified
of the detestable Lord Meleagant, that I cannot do it, or he would kill my husband. He is
very terrifying, so it is not strange that I fear him." "Lady, if you are afraid I will not return
after the tournament, I will swear to you that nothing will stop me from coming back after the tournament."
"You have my word," she said, "I will allow you to go under one condition." "Under what condition,
my Lady?"

"Upon the ocnidtion that you will swear to return to come back and promise that you will love
me." "My lady, I swear to give you all the love I have upon my return." The lady laughs and
says, "I have no reason to brag about such a gift, because I know
you have already given your love to someone else.

But, I will take what I can get.

I will be satisfied with whatever I can have, and will take your word that you will return
here as a prisoner."
Upon receiving her word, Lancelot swears that he will return to her.

And the lady gives him the arms of her lord and his strong and brave
stallion. 

[1] Fuller items shall be located within Daubeny's Volcanoes, chap. xviii., and Lyell's Principles
of Geology, vol. ii. p. 65 (edition 1872).

The bird's-eye look is robbed from this latter profession via kind permission of the publisher,
Mr. J. Murray, as also the ushering Ideal Section, Fig. 13.
[2] Wallace, Geographical Distribution of Animals (1876). The author's Sketch of Geological History,
p. 130 (Deacon & Co., 1887).
[3] The volcanic frontier lying towards the northern of this rope shall incorporate Sardinia,
Sicily, Pantelleria, the Grecian Archipelago, Asia Minor, and Syria; the non-volcanic frontier
lying towards the south of this rope shall incorporate the African
coast, Malta, Isles of Crete and Cyprus.

The Isle of Pantelleria is obviously just onto the rope, which, persisted eastward, presumably
pursues the northern coast of Cyprus, parallel towards the knock
of the layers and of the central axis of that island.--See "Carte
Géologique de l'île de Chypre, par MM. Albert Gaudry et Amedée
Damour"

(1860).
CHAPTER V.
EUROPEAN EXTINCT OR DORMANT VOLCANOES.
We are naturally ruled onto from a perspective of the active volcanoes of Europe towards that
of volcanoes which are either dormant or extinct within the equivalent
region.

Such are towards be located within Italy, Central France, both banks of the Rhine and Moselle,
the Westerwald, Vogelsgebirge, and else communities of Germany; within Hungary, Styria, and the
edges of the Grecian archipelago. But the issue is too wide towards be handled here within
detail; and I recommend towards confine my comments towards a number of appointed instances
which are towards be located within Southern Italy, Central France, and the Rhenish communities,
whereas the volcanic features are of so modern an age as towards preserve their outward form and flesh
almost intact.

(a.) Southern Italy.--Extinct volcanoes and volcanic rocks occupy extensive tracts between the
western flanks of the Apennines and the Mediterranean coast within
the Neapolitan and Roman States, forming the remarkable category of
the Phlegræan fields (Campi Phlegræi), with the adjoining islands
of Ischia, Procida, Nisida, Vandolena, Ponza, and Palmarola; at Melfi
and Avellino.

 In silence
he handed to her the king's order. "Her name is Miss Melissa Macy," said Captain Enoch.

"If she were married, she would have been called Mrs. Peters."
At this, the captain rose and rushed on deck, just in time to see
a boat leaving with the mate calmly reclining on board.

 

Whatever you've done to reform the real culprit must be the result not of their own worth, but
some added ingredient, not the essence of the sentence, as when the
hopes remain outside reward or partial remission of the penalty, the
practice of industry and the continued good conduct.

And yet - so here one can oppose - to correct a child, punish and reform us. The correct word
has the double meaning of the sentence and the amendment. If the plan succeeds so well with
the baby, what saves the rod is supposed to make you cry, why should
stop completely with the adult?

However, it makes a difference. You punish a child, and shortly after receiving the penitent
little new in his love, or rather, the pat on penance and reconciliation is so sweet, that child
never to blame, perhaps, has so affected their as acutely awakened at this time tears of pain
and forgiveness.

The heart is softer than ever, and the feeling of shame for having
offended remains substantially alive.

But if you withdraw your love - if, after the punishment inflicted, which is still physically
prevented - If no conciliation was requested and held, there will
be no reform in his punishment.

Between society and the culprit of adults, this is exactly the case. Here strikes hostile parents,
but only after the opening of goodness.

The coup, and the bitterness of the blow, they remain without heal. Nothing is done to remove
the sting of anger, to keep the heart rebuking bid to avoid the growing insensitivity to shame,
and increasing the spirit of revolt. I revealed here in full force, another notable difficulty
with which the reform of penal codes must fight.

In making the picture of the situation of helplessness of those facing criminal and punished, and
justice often refers to the fact that the reputation of the man is so corrupt that honest people
are reluctant to give work - that his return to a life without stain is almost impossible -
and that the defense is forced to resort to the same penalty for
companies which have already suffered.

 "I do not know, I do, I always talk to a lot of books. When the Son of Squire 'Christmas
- Bird regret the good, and they're always glad to gather round the festlebord comes."
I started biteulbogohagi. "You 'means the board of the festival'?"
"That's what I wot sed, 'Em"
I am the son of Squire, as well as you'd let on. "Well, you get one, Elizabeth, have, I'm going
to see that night, but unfortunately, the only person I know who does not repent - not yet. And
now I would like to invite one friend said."
He is "my brother, - Lor 'Yeah, well, kind of like -' er I 'aven't speakin' terms were together
five years - but she should not.

'Do not come my friends; the arter her sed about me, my young cousin of the things - sorcy
Let luggage, my aunt about two arter way they have me under the same roof does not set up as
a bridge ---- "
"You do not invite people to worry about," I broke in, "We do not need a list of them. Who
want to come?"
"Well, ma'am, lighthouse pool of catfish - a real nice lady, you know, 'Em, Then, in the chef's wot
life sister ouse red corner Poly arsk the' Would the air; 'Mary Bexar
is.' My crew is such a good brother, 'the first time in 10 years?
you can' have an e, 'or' e-mail was not good around the world to come
twice.

"
"Well, Elizabeth, and he certainly ought to invite.

He has also returned home to repent one, you can enjoy the proper style of the festival will
be on board."
"Oh, okay, luverly it's not, did not do it 'Dogs Christmas.

Wot we have a' time wot Ave beano is it time to!"
* * * * * Of
For my part, I can not pass a very Merry Christmas. Henry's aunt invited us to the rich, but
she's also boring, and found myself envying Elizabeth rather several times. Aunt Jane in her chair,
while I nodded, Henry, Elizabeth and her friends, and their infinite joy, their suppression
of the wild revels of fun, I've been. We are brothers, so the crew round, he had known for
a long miracle story of each country as a wonderful pleasure to hear
them, tell them to imagine the gathering was.

Henry sighed, and then the so-called lower classes, he enjoyed writing, they would tend capacity.

Elizabeth returns home to face that we send our greetings. "I 'ope you' ad a good time," she said,
"I 'ad I know."
"So it's really you, Elizabeth, I think it was good?"
"It was a first-class, 'Em, well, at least orl arter night of drinking tea, we chippin' the beginning
and end of each 'avin' went up in a few words. My crew - my brother 'Polly' sounds about red
'chaffin start by She ORF, why not stop the air 'arskin' and 'she' said the Messenger, the
'red' She wondered e 'did not cut off his nose, this objection e'd
ORF.

Arter led only difference is there might be our side an 'said ---- "
"Oh, Elizabeth, you argue, do not mean to say?" I interrupted sorrowfully.

"Oh, no, that quarrellin ',' me - just bargin 'No, you know.

Any'ow it to Polly' Mary 'out my brother ended early. Owin wife was indifferent to the Lighthouse
Pools' and' uh 'avin' She does not believe that my crew - my brother 'in LA less than Wapping
to add a coal barge. I'm not' Ave a 're talking about a fish dinner'
if the book 'and' It has brought us together again, like kind. "
"What book?" I asked bewildered.  
"Manner O 'speakin' of my work
with you one on 'em five, the book wot! Some ghost stories. I said,'
I cried and then laughed about it later. So did his wife spurge. You
read the bits that we have for each other - kep it up at 3 this morning
to see, and we did. It was luverly! "  
"And what a book called
that?" I asked.  
"It's Christmas Car'l, 'or, as by Mr. DICKINGS.
It afore me about why I did not say no? Not that far away - and better
pictures. I'm sorry I said that.
Rita (after a second, hostile): You want me to take you seriously? (She sits and gestures her
hand) Please, what do you want to say? Friedrich: A lot.

(He sits too) But, are you sick today? Rita: Sick? Why do you say
that?

Friedrich: That's what the maid said. Rita: The maid is useful. Which makes me think. You want
to stay a while, don't you? Friedrich: If that's okay with you. I have a lot to talk to you
about. Rita: That's what I thought. (Yelling) Bertha! Bertha! Do you think I could get an electric
bell repaired? Impossible. Bertha(enters): My lady? Rita: When the count comes, I really am
sick now. Bertha(nods): Okay. (Exit) Rita(calls after her): And where's the coffee? I'm parched.
Bertha:(outside)I'll get it immediately. Friedrich: Did you say the Count? Rita: Yes. He's quite
a nice man, but he would not fit in now. I wanted to tell you: I'm extremely fond of electric
bells. They're amazing.

You only have to give them a light touch, just with one finger and
they still cause such a loud noise.

Wonderful, isn't it? But you wanted to talk seriously, or so it seems. Friedrich: Yes. I ask
you, Miss Erna--Rita: Erna? Friedrich: Yes! Rita: Oh, well! Friedrch(continues): I'm asking
you to be completely serious and listen to me. Rest assured that I am saying this from the
bottom of my heart.

I have grown into a serious man in these years that we have been
apart--maybe too serious for a man of so few years--but the feelings
I have for you have never changed.

Do you hear me, Erna? Rita(leaning back in the rocking chair, sighing) Friedrich: I have always
loved you Erna, you know that? Even when I was very young, before I even knew it myself. Did you
know that? (Rita does not answer and does not look at him) Friedrich: When I was young, still
in school and still foolish, I already referred to you as my fiance and I believed that I
would make you my wife one day. You believe me, don't you? Rita(reserved): Yes, I believe you.
 

Speaking of hunting, and especially of falconry, he told me his deserts abounded in game, and
that if I stayed with him, I see herds of antelope fell to their noble falcons. He was curious about
sports in our field, but showed little interest in more important matters, because, he said,
"I am well informed on everything that relates to the Europeans and their empires."
The sheikh is kept in great veneration by all tribes, flying to Fellahi to subpoena, with your
own material of war.

This way you can command the services of six or seven thousand cavalry, and over fifteen thousand
foot, regardless of the Illyauts wanderer, living in the deserts of Chab.
(In Bebuhan there are some interesting notes.)
The Khans and Meerza of Bebuhan are major consumers of coffee, but not in the way of the Turks,
Arabs or Europeans. It is with them a kind of bon-bon eating in a state powder and roasted,
without having had any connection with hot water.

Meer Goolam When Hussein asked me, he was always accompanied by his coffee-bearer, who carried
fragrant berry in a box of snuff, and handed it to society often present. The first time you brought
me, fooled by their color and quality, and strengthened in the deception by its unique repository,
I took a pinch of coffee and applied it to his nose, amid the laughter and looks of surprise
on the whole game .

(A dinner sacristy in Persia should be one of our choices.)
In the convent of Julfa Governing Bishop and his brothers have ample room, full of society, and
a well furnished table. I dined once with his lordship and the stewards, and found that pays
homage to the sacristy and vestry appetites are not exclusively English
characteristics.

The dinner was spread as usual on the floor, on a large white cloth, around which guests.
Located next to each guest was a plate, knife, fork, spoon, and glass, a piece of cheese,
two or three feet of bread and a boiled egg.

The party started for each person to drink a glass of anise, and then came in quick succession
the lamb chops, poultry, cooked, boiled kidneys, sour curd, tea, apricots, apples and grapes, sweet
and salted fish each of which the laity and clergy did equal justice, ending the party with
a sacrifice to Bacchus.

* * * * *
THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.
* * * * * 
CHILDREN OF CRANMER - SCHOOLS BEFORE THE REFORM. 
Cranmer
received his early education in a parish-dependent. This may seem
singular, for he was of noble birth, and enrolled in Cambridge between
"the better class of students." But probably, these changes were not
unusual before the Refor 

Arsch. "Pers." 448; "Ag." 194. Cf. Lat. "importunus," also of "rough ground."

(21) Or, "make his rush."

Once the nets are fixed, the party will return and let each of the hounds slip out; then each
person in the party will pick up his javelin (22) and spear, and
then go forward.

The most experienced of the men in the party will encourage the hounds, and the follow after,
keeping enough distance in between one another, in order to allow
the animal to move freely. This is because if he runs into a crowd
as he tries to escape, he will certainly retaliate and injure the
first person or animal he encounters.

(22) Lit. "then they will take
their javelins and boar-spears and advance." 

In every part of eight performer ears and six common mouse ears have studied.  The descriptions
of these arrangements are extremely general, as one with capacity of several significant parts
of the ear, have presented in their document, the principal conclusions
of subsequent is --  1.

The three half-circular, the ampullae, the utricle, as well as the siebold's organ of the canals
are typical in their common shape along with associations to one
another as well as in their histological circumstances (2 p. 529).

This is paradoxical of the prepared declarations by Rawitz. 2. There is damage of the macula
acustica sacculi. (2 p. 534).  3. There is damage in addition of the papilla basilaris cochleae
in the midst of intrusion of the surrounding tissues in unstable levels.  4. There is reduction
in the quantity of characters of the branches with roots of the superior pubic ramus as well as
ramus medius of the eighth cranial nerve, and the backbone collections have very loosely bound
together.  5.

In the same way, the quantity of backbone in the inferior branch (the acoustic nerve) of the
eighth cranial nerve had very much reduced.  6. There is reasonable decrease within the mass of
the cochlear nerve and the vestibular nerve because of the unusually small quantity of nerve
groups.  7. The spiral ganglia are particularly collapse.  Consequently, there is weakening of
the branches, ganglia, as well as roots of the entire eighth nerve,
simultaneously through erosion and degeneration of the parts inferior
labyrinth.

The nerve conclusions are especially relapse (2 p. 534).  On the top of structural variations of
the ear of the performer from that of the common mouse may be reflected on as major or minor
according as they are hereditary or gained.

In view of the fact that, according to Alexander and Kreidl, the
performers' oddities of activities with deafness is honestly as well
as uniformly hereditary.

It is an evident that positive major structural variations should provide as a foundation for these
practical details.

On the other hand, it is in the same way comprehensible, in the view of Alexander and Kreidl (2
p. 536), that other structural peculiarities of the performer are the product of the major transforms,
and in no method the circumstances for either the dance or the deafness. These writers feel in
no doubt that the details of activities are to be accounted for the almost unquestionably due
to the pathological transforms which they have discovered in the nerves, ganglia, as well as
in particular in the peripheral nerve endings of the ear of the mouse (2 p. 537).
 

Man MAUREL suggests a move in this path, when one nighttime he impersonates the gay Nation Don,
and on added he appears as the scoundrelly Italian barber, no long an provocative bachelor
but a jealous newlywed. Merry Honeyed Music! Old-fashioned he may be, suchlike not a few of the
unsurpassed melodies and the champion stories. Elegant Countess is Madame EMMA Decorator.
Can she maybe ever hump been Rosina, Dr. Bartolo's hard author! What a alteration matrimony makes
in few folks!

Old Dr. Bartolo bears not some resemblance to the separate Dr. Bartolo, and Don Basilio, a variety
of Religion attorney, is quite a rollicking wag as compared with the Basilio of the Barber
of Seville. Cypher could be fitter than the Susanna of Mlle. TELEKI, or sweeter than the terpsichore,
warmly encored, between her and the Countess. EDOUARD DE RESZKÉ is a magnificent allegorical
of the gloomily-jealous Rely, who, having formerly been the gayest of the gay, noneffervescent
retains something of his ol He is ever deed unjust, and e'er state in the unethical when launch
out: a Number quite at a discount, for whom there leave perhaps be no intermit until he is "par."
with a family. Unneeded to say, the endeavor was healthy acted and voiced by Crony NED, whom
a man nearer me, who "knew all most it," mistook for his chum Gospels, and criticised accordingly.
As Cherubino, Mlle. SIGRID ARNOLDSON is a delightfully young reprobate, gift us rightful that soupçon
of undyed posture which a destroyed sunny Meridional lad of xvi,
brought up in such integrated guild as is represented by Trust Almaviva's
unit, would occasionally guide unpolluted and dolabrate, without interpolating
cadenzas, roulades, nourishes, or exercises of philharmonic fireworks,
and the conference rewarded her artistically acuminate rendering of
"Voi che sapete" with an encore, which was as lusty as it was well-deserved.

Top Shelter. Parliamentary musicians egregious by their epilepsy. Ex-M.P.'s represented in a
embody by Sir H-NRY EDW-RDS the coniferous.
It was reportable in the House--the House House--that Sir DRURIOLANUS was standing; but for what
Constituency, was not mentioned.

The bruit was justified by his appearing at the Delay entry, where he stood for both minute, but
as he delicately observed, "I am not in look of a seat--in Parliament. No! Let who testament
straighten the people's laws, elasticity me the transportation out for them of their Operas
and Pantomimes." So locution, he unerect gracefully to nobody in particular (who happened to
be talking to him), and, with a refreshing waving of the clapping, Sir DRURIOLANUS was wafted
forth into the offing, and "straying to range," spell plant "to remembering lover."
Trumpet Comment in climb.--The Trompeter of Sakkingen is announced as "in going thinking."

Unnecessary to say more, as, of class, he blows his own trumpet for himself.
The query is, module it be a big move in the mitt of Sir DRURIOLANUS?

Saturday.--Elaine
varied her brain, and wouldn't travel out to-night.

* * * * * NEW Version OF "CONSULE PLANCO"--"Ask PLANCHETTE."--If "Planchette" can break such
close collection as it appears to fuck done at Mr. Physicist WYNDHAM's
supper-party, and elsewhere, as recounted in the Daily Apparatus,
why is it not at erst put into widespread form?

 How much my
love has cost you, dear! Sheila said "Get buns for Miss Hurdlewing, while I will carry on Nobby,
rush a purchaser is coming."

I strolled away as Sheila was trying to say something and with smile engaged herself on specification
in pamphlet to the first customer.
Sheila against heliotrope Tanglefoot limousine was a marvelous look that it was impossible to keep
away from her for long.

Sheila was expressed herself attractively to the customers that the
motorists were attentive.The model was novel and expensive hence to
improve the profit zealots .

A fascinated rival agent listening to her was amazed by her presentation and determined to merge
with our firm.

With a charming side glance towards Byng-Beatty Sheila explained on the special features of
the car like specialty of chassis, change tyres without leaving the seats of the vehicle, and
ability of the car to face obstacles by a simple adjustment of the
universal joint, Albama type of clutch etc.She explained impact made
in Olympia car market because even an amateur driver can onvert the
present body into a a tipping-wagon.

Reversible hood can protect the passengers from wind when car runs backwards. An EINSTEIN parachute
concealed by door flush with the panels at the rear boot, the passenger may leave the car,
by hearing the above I dared not interrupt or even move.
The ecstatic feeling expressed by listeners inspired Sheila and continued that the "Tanglefoot"
is basically for a medical man or a prospective customer. Horn if desired can be fitted. Proper
utilization of the car will repay the higher price fixed for the car.collapsible game-bag and
landing-net are accessories supplied with the standard chassis, she exclaimed.
The above was going on for a longer period when a man in the crowd recognized me I left the
place at once and came back at lunch interval only.
I commented that James Wringley and I may have to sing song in the streets to pay for the services
of Sheila has made. The comment surprised her and exclaimed that she has booked more orders
than we expected. She frankly told that the important thing is get the car noticed and nobody
believes what said about the car.
I asked her did they study the cars before they let their names to be taken down, on which
she looked into may eyes and merrily laughed.

***** W. K. H Our Eccentric Advertisers.
"Youth Wanted to Strike."
Provincial Paper.
* * * * *
* * * * *

* * * * *
ABOUT BATHROOMS 
The elegant bath rooms in white enamel and attachments
in polished metal seen in the shop windows are beautiful sight. Secretly
I watch the sight for a long time, but bath tub is missing in these
pieces which make me believe that whether any body has imagined of
a perfect bath room.Since a bathroom is small in size in any house
the attitude of modern civilization is to be questioned. The bath
room has to be a big room with splendid furnishing that even exercise
can be done in it. Only the Romans understood the significance of
bath room. In the next year he was with the king at Leo, from whom he carried orders
to England, coming after a measurable audience, and when he arrived he became Under Secretary
of State in the Earl of Jersey's office, a position that he did not long keep, due to Jersey
being removed,but soon after he became Comminsioner of Trade.
One of his greatest and lengthy compositions ws created in this year (1700),"Carmen Seculare," in which
he put forth all of his abilities of rejoicing.
 

HENRY WARD BEECHER

DEACON MARBLE
How could they make deacon especially out of a Jeery Marble, its unimaginable
for me. His hear was one of the kindest one that ever ran over and
bubbled. He was flexible, toughie, continuously energetic, and a tremendous
employee He took a break for sequel and respiration.
"Now you 'ave' 'ad a look at me you will grasp me. Not the Apollo Belgravia, but just simple
Brown-- Mrs. Brown's old man--yes, its me; and due to 'Eaven it's 'im you have got to cope with
and not Mr. Brown's old lady.

Now we will get to toil. fellers, and 'ustle' the word.
He stepped away a few distance.

"When I express 'Round me nip,'' he yelled, "I want to see a altocumulus
of dust and a living statue.

Cycle me--NIP!" 
There was fisticuffs. 
"'It 'im, "shouted Brown;
"you are not doing a foxtrot! I do not know whether the king has gifted my mother's estate
to others, as assuredly he has done my father's lands. Conrad held his words which he began to
say in his merriment, wheh he noticed the change of his old friend.  Then he began to say
himself that if he had a beard he would look just like ...He cannot
finish his words as he heard the voice of the mistress blaming for
his carelessness in his duty.so they left quickly towards the workshop.

The commandant was very keen in inspecting and strengthening the forts to avoid every possible
advancement of enemy.The reckless arrival of the countrymen in search of shelter for their
family members, household articles and cattle towards the city walls indicated the approach
of the enemey.  The country men poured in with long trains of waggons,droves of animals and
men with heavy loads towards the gates of Freiberg. The city authorities welcomed them with
courtsey as every ideal town must do at the time of crisis. Besides the town authorities were
eager to have the help of the country men to fight against the enemy as the former General Bannier
proved they are capable of defending for their freedom.

In late December a powerful voice began to shout under the window
of Mistress Bluthgen,and began to knock at the window hard.It was
the widow of carpenter with a countrymen.They demanded for shelter
there.

Hearing their brusque demand journeymen and apprentice rushed towards the window to see who
is this. There stood six asses with heavy loads of flour.

On the street a wagon with full of loads with two powerful horses was there.A woman was inside
with the load of household articles with a baby in her arms.This
was followed by four cows led by a house maid and a dozen of sheep
behind them.

Mistress Blüthgen took only a few seconds to familiarize with the
situation.The man was miller from Erbisdorf.

Conrad was aware of that.Mistress asked Conrad to open the door and let them inside.After unloading
the goods from the wagon with great speed and leaving his family there, the miller left out to
bring their other possessions.  Mistress Blüthgen joyfully remarked that they will not starve
anymore. She began to praise the Lord for this.

She hopefully parayed that do not let the Swedes to come there or
fire with shells.

Then Hillner boldly said that any how we must prevent them.He remarked that God has given them
strong hands and brave hearts to defend against the enemy.
CHAPTER IV
THE ENEMEY BEFORE THE TOW

N
 When
he took part in the battle to attack upon Navarin under the leadership
of Orlóff, finally he died.

During this battle, he had been attached on with a long and eminent
career of service.

He tried hard to see his new country with family of Annibáloff and with Púshkin who was the
most distinguished ornament among the poets. He was considered as an admired personality among
poets due to his personal appearance and in mental stability. For the memory of this singular progenitor,
Pushkin has given one of his smaller works and it was considered
as so sacred and it has mixed frequently with the African blood and
it was inherited from the admiral.

In 1811 because of the interest of Turgénieff, to whom Russia is thus, in some sort, indebted
for her great poet, Púshkin got admission with great respect into the Imperial Lyceum of Tsárskoë
Seló.

There he was admitted for his well to do education and also to create and maintain a great
form of friendships. So there he had been getting a better superb chance to promote his all
literary productions of his whole career and they were all highly
enriched with colorful matchless modification to a considerable extent.

He made work especially with the personal character of the poet. Then this institution was recently
established by the Emperor Alexander. Also it was highly honored by the strange favors and
protections of its memorable founder. Again it was further remodeled by the plan of lycees by the
genius of Napoleon. He gave more remarkable attention for people for their advantage of a
complete encyclopedic education.

He was intended not only to promote the preparatory or school educational course but also he
was keenly tried to make better the all academic curriculum of a university. Also he was insisting
the students, when they were finishing their courses and related trainings successfully immediately
to take part into active life.

The Lyceum was functioning matchlessly and undoubtedly and it was keenly considered and nursed
in its bosom for a greater number of distinguished men than any other educational institution in
the country. Our readers are especially judged about the peculiar privileges which were enjoyed
by this establishment. The primary object of this foundation was just too remarkably furnishing
the higher civil departments in the government and to the ministry of foreign affairs in particular
way for particular purpose. It was very keen in supplying adequate staff for such needs. In
fact they were all appointed by the emperor in a wing of the palace of Tsárskoë Seló--the favorite
summer residence of the Tsars of Russia since the time of Catharine II. It is also finally
praised as sovereign due to its matchless responsible dedication
and also it has become so well known to travelers.

They considered it as their own celebrated place because of its splendid
palace and magnificent gardens.

Also it had been considered as one of the most striking objects and it had been admired the
stranger's curiosity in the environs of St Petersburg.

The students of the Lyceum are almost always youngsters and they
came from highly most distinguished families among the Russian nobility.

They had been selected from themselves only and particularly from
among the most intellectual and brilliant status.

The system of education was mainly based on its walls of the most complete nature, partaking.
Moreover, it has been concluded and determined from what we have said, of both a scientific
and literary character. At a first single glance at a list of the first course in which Púshkin
was a member it had been highly and adequately packed with so many members and with many names
destined to high distinction.
 

HOW WILL YOU CONVINCE
I thought that I was less aware of the military diciplines than any other women in Germany, I controlled
my talking and kept quiet. The arguments between myself and himself, on the way, were less
impulsive and attractive. His arguments were also not so pointless.

At last we reached home weary and tired and emptied each other, all that we kept in mind,
which we wanted to burst out.

However he did not show a sign of reaction, that he listened to what
ever I said and I assumed that he might have felt hard in his mind.

As I went upstairs, I was thinking that he might be spending his balance hours at home itself
by resting.
During dinner we were quiet snd kept the decency and greateness of each other in talking in
a reasonable manner, as the servants were around. However I was much desperate and wanted to
burst out with striking words, to breake the silence, as I was sitting opposite to him. As
I thought of having a convincing discussion, or gossip, he was just trying to escape from it
and the praising of some peoples name which I was taking out as topic, was shortened by him
as they were his close relatives, like aunt or brother-in-law. I again felt weight in my heart,
as we all know that solving and convincing is not that much easy. In this circumstance people
will have an inner mind of tearing apart of matters. It was around 9.30 p.m. and I got up and
told him that I was going to sleep by 10.00, as it was the time at home we all keeping to go to
bed, usually. He was then standing and looking at me in astonishment. I went away without taking
care of that situation as I was very much tired physically and mentally.
He woke up early next day and went off at 5.00 a.m. and he had also
informed that he would be late in the evening.

It was a beautiful bright morning with sunshines gleaning on my food,as I was happily having
my breakefast. The early cuckoo birds were calling me to the coniferous forest and it was a wonderful
morning. I then planned to go out into the coniferous forest alongwith my babies, required
clothes, provisions etc., and spend the time there till bed time. It was my subtle pleasure, to
be away, to make him understand, as he would be returning with recharged and renewed vigour to continue
the talks, that the house is empty without my beautiful presence.

After breakefast I went to the garden with freedom at heart and over whelming enjoyment
as the nature and beauty of the garden had created a hopeful beginning of the day. It wa a wonderful
morning in spring which I was enjoying in the absence of the lieutenant!.

I felt the day is going to be more beautiful happenings and was enjoying the lonlyness with
a book in my hand and having breakefast in the garden. She washed, this
is my fuck over twice. As soo as it was over I wanted it again. "You seem to like women very much,"
she said, "I thought you to be a virgin." I handed her the Victoria and then told her the
situation, and barely said the words (she already had her clothes back on), "I really would
like to that again."You consume a lot of my time, but you can, if you want, on the side of the
bed." My pecker came out, stiff it became, her belly and flower in my vison, till I finished in
her, and off I went with a promise to see her soon. There
is certain thing to be said supportive the suggestion, and it is a shame that the deserves of
the inquiry should have been rather obscured by the intolerable, but to some individuals possibly appealing,
proposal that the added expenditure essential for producing learning gratuitous should be provided
by the robbery of the Church, or (in politer phrase) by the appropriation to the reasons of
learning of the nationwide house hitherto provided to the support
of religion.

This feline can scarcely be said to have been let out of the bag, for her head was no earlier
glimpsed peeping out than the alert conceived was unsafely large, and Puss was hid afresh in
a twinkling; but she is interior the bag still. A much less objectionable suggestion was speedily
made, namely, that the deficiency conceived by the remission of school-pence should be provided by
a Parliamentary grant. And this suggestion, we presume, may be considered as at present before
the country. Looking upon the issue from a Chancellor of the Exchequer issue of outlook, it is a grave
thing to believe of having to make an supplement of about two millions to the yearly nationwide
expenditure; and it may be discerned that premier statesmen on both
edges of government may be discovered who are at present unconvinced.

Doubtless an expenditure of two millions would not be grudged by the territory for any essential
purpose; but when the suggestion is to alternate a fee of two millions by the Exchequer for the two
millions paid in driblets by the individuals most involved, for the most part gladly and with exceptional
provisions for stopping the fee pushing barely upon the exceptionally poor, it may well be that
numerous shrewd individuals will inquire the inquiry, Cui bono-

Independently, although, of any fiscal concerns, it appears to us
that there are weighty contentions contrary to the suggestion of a
gratuitous education.

It may be discerned, and we believe it an significant fact, that the suggestion of free learning
is in the teeth of all our latest policy; and some pushing causes should to be granted for a entire
and rapid reversal of all that we have hitherto been doing. There are numerous free schools in the
homeland, endowed by 'pious founders,' and established for the exceptional
reason of giving free learning to the young children of specific parishes.

 

He didn't wait for me to pull him in, be inserted his throbbing member inside of me and since
I was into it, it didnt take long for him to be all the way in. I could tell he was as excited as
I was! 

It was evidentially proved that the remedies which worked for the
cholera morbus, were injurious in the same disease in Russia.

Brandy with laudanum was prescribed as a preventive measure against the contagion, wherein the
former boosts the vigour of abdominal viscera and the latter to prevent excitability of the
system. In India these worked out well, in cases of cholera. We suggest those who believe in
the prophecy of our correspondent, which appears to be real, to have
a good stock of brandy and laudanum.

Though bleeding was noticed, the cases seemed to depend on the natural
stamina of the patients, even when calomel in varying doses, opium,
careput oil, subcarbonate of ammonia, muriatic acid, camphor fumigation,
warm covering and friction have been employed the disease has followed
its regular course.

It as terminated fatally to those who had freely used wine and spirits. The Russians who took
fish-oil at every meal it has proved relatively fatal than among
the Poles.

* * * * *

Dr. Reece's Gazette of Practical Medicine is quoted here
* * * * *
Mr. Hope an eminent surgeon, who has had thirty years of experience,
is found in the Atlas, wherein cases of cholera morbus were treated
successfully and had revealed the means which he used for the public
benefit.

He said the remedy used was one drachm of nitrous acid, one ounce of peppermint-water or camphor
mixture, and 40 drops of tincture of opium, one quarter every three or four hours in a cupful
of thin gruel. The stomach should be covered with hot clothes, feet by bottled hot water;
constant intake clear gruel, or sago or tapioca; no use of spirit, wine or fermented liquors
till recovery. Laudanum is now used by French surgeons who abstain
from venesection.

Simply repeated use of hot water in large quantities can also be tried.
* * * * *
A report as a reply to the Medical Gazette is as follows:-
From the latest news from St. Petersburgh we came to know that one of the most famous and intelligent
of the physicians of Russia has been appointed in tracing the spread
of cholera, and the conclusion is that the disease is spread by contagion
exclusively and not because of the atmosphereical influence.

It appeared at Corason, the residence of Abbas Mirza in Persia, in 1830 during the spring, where
several of the Russian mission too died, and Prince Dolgonrowky, the minister, was also severely
affected but narrowly escaped death. It broke out in the Russian province of Schirvan and Bacon
in July; then it spread ot Tifflis by land and to Astracan from the port of Bacon by sea. It was
around the same time about July 20th. Precautions were not taken and it permeated Georgia,
following the primary course of roads and it spread only when someone from the infected towns
visited other places.

A Moravian village was lucky to escape which was in the line of the road. People from Bacon, ran
along the Volga because of the warnings, but carried the disease with them. it appeared once
again at Jondayersk o the 22nd of July, at Krasnoyar on the 25th;
at Tzarilzin on the 6th of August; Donbooka and Saratoff on the 7th;
at Khvalnisk on the 19th; Novogorod on the 27th; Koshoma on the 3rd
of September; Yaroslaff 6th; and at Rybinsk on the 10th.

Navigators of the Volga were the first people to get infected or others who arrived from placed
already affected.
 Taking his glasses off the top of
his bare head, where they had been resting, he took his coat and
gazed at it for a moment, then raised his gaze until it met the eyes
of his customer.

"So how much you think I can get for this?" he said, speaking nonchalantly and giving a sympathetic
look to the skinny man before him.
"It cost me twenty dollars.", the young man said. "You think it is still worth ten, yes?" 
"Sure.",
answered the pawnbroker, "Would you like me to give you a ten dollar loan on the item?
The customer replied, "If you could, please." after his face gleamed
from hearing the pawnbroker's words.

Five dollars was all he was expecting. The idea of getting ten for the ulster made him feel
feel like a prosperous man.

Opening his book, the pawnbroker began to fill the blanks on a paper slip contained inside. He
began with the customer's name, James Teague. This was his real name not the alias he was famously
known by. That was much more refined.
As Rumble handed Teague both the ticket and his ten dollars, he took
a covert survey of his skinny and poorly dressed form, then looked
to the window where snow fell heavily, driven against the glass by
the wind that loudly howled as it blowed down the street, making the
shutters and swinging signs uncannily creak.

The pawnbrokers called to Mr. Dixon, Teague's companion and invited
them to stay until the storm lets up.

"It is quite more pleasant here by the fire than outside in the elements."
They accepted his invitation and seated themselves by the stove in the center of the room. As
the cheerful light that shone from the coals hit them, they leaned
back and began to warm their hands by the fire, grateful for the warmth.

The old pawnbroker joined them, smiling as he seated himself in a
large arm chair which seemed to be made puposefully for his great
size.

A thought came to his guests and from this Mr. Dixon felt the need to ask him a question.

He asked Mr. Rumble how he became a pawnbroker.
"It was all by chance, I was not raised with this profession", he replied.
Mr. Dixon didn't think so, and exchanged some knowing glances with
his friend.

"I used to be a weaver", he continued,"Two years ago I was working in my homeland England at
that trade. I was not doing well financially, and then my Aunt left
me five hundred pounds in her will.

I decided it was time for a fresh start and decided to come to this
country and start my own business."

"What led you to become a pawnbroker?" asked Dixon.
"I was told by many that it was far more profitable than any other
profession.

I am getting older and I have a daughter which I must provide for. I want to ensure she is comfortable
when I am gone."
The street door opened and everyone was made uncomfortable for a moment as they were blasted
by the wind and the snow. The blast rattled the windows and the armor, their armless sleeves
shaking in the air.
Clad in worn black clothes, a tall skinny young man stood by the door. His unshaven face made
him look young but it was not free from the marks of care. In his
large dark eyes a yearning could be seen of desires unfulfilled.
Dixon and Teague looked at each other as if to say, "Here is a another
customer for the broker" 
The man a the door hesitated and spoke,
"Is Miss Rumble here?" as he turned towards the large pawnbroker. 

(2)Another dispute for the belief in common descent is the appearance of degenerate organs
in the higher animals. There are more than one hundred fundemental organs in man, for example,
such as the pineal gland and vermiform appendix, and so on. Several of these vestigal organs,
are without function in man, as they do function in lower animals, and this goes to prove that
sometime in the past they also functioned in man.

(3) Embryology facts seem to determine the descent of higher animals
from that of the lower animals. During the developmental stage of
the fetus the species previous stages seem to be repeated. The day I arrived,
in 1843, Mrs. Jackson and I had a dinner. The dinner was good: we had ducks, venison and vegetables
raised by the Selkirk refugees. I tasted pemmican for the first time in my life at this dinner.
It was very delicious. The bread was cooked in a Dutch oven. 

In 1281-2, Edward kept his Christmas party in Worcester, and had "a cold and the snow like no man
could remember the style." The rivers were frozen over, even including the Thames and Severn,
in fish ponds and forest birds died from lack of food, and ice-breaking
five of the arches of old London Bridge were washed away, and as happened
to many other bridges.

In 1286 Edward kept his Christmas in Oxford, but the honor was accompanied by an unpleasant episode
in the hanging of Mayor by King. In 1290, 1292 and 1303, Edward I of England kept Real Christmas
in the great hall of Westminster. On his way to Scotland in 1299, the king saw the ceremony
Bishop Chico Christmas.

Supports one of the children bishops to say vespers before him in his chapel at Heton, near Newcastle-upon-Tyne,
and made a gift to the interpreters of forty shillings, not inconsiderable
sum in those days.

During his wars in Scotland in 1301, Edward, on Winter's coming,
stayed in Linlithgow, where he built a castle and kept his Christmas,
and during his reign was celebrated the festival in other places not
usually so honest - that is, Bury, Ipswich, Bristol, Berwick, Carlisle
and Lincoln.

Edward II  
He succeeded his father in 1307, the fourth son of Edward
I and Eleanor of Castile.

He took great delight in the Christmas festivities and spent large sums of money in the entertainment
of his court favorites. He kept Christmas in New York in 1311, rejoicing in the presence of Piers
Gaveston, who had called from his exile in total disregard of the
advice given to him by his father (Eduardo) on his deathbed.

Edward II. kept Christmas in the great hall of Westminster 1317,
when, however, some nobles were present, "because of discord between
them and the king"But in 1320 the Royal Christmas remained at Westminster,"
with great honor and glory.

"At Christmas 1324-5 King noted sumptuously in Nottingham, but the following year Edward was imprisoned
in Kenilworth, while his wife, who had successfully intrigued by
Roger Mortimer, leader of the barons, found the Christmas holidays
with his son Wallingford, happy for the fall of her husband.

King Edward was an indecisive and weak-minded. showed singular incapacity
for government, losing almost all their time in frivolous entertainment.

The main features of his reign was the defeat and shame in abroad, and bad government on ending
poverty in the country.

Instead of following the example of his noble father, Edward I, who has been deservedly style
"the greatest of the Plantagenets," he was weaker than the line of
kings, spending his time at which deviations as insignificant as "cross
and battery", a game of chance with money.

I was so utterly devoid of dignity to borrow money from her hairdresser to carry out this frivolous
pastime, items like these that come in rolls of her dress: - "Item, attention to Henry, the
king's barber, for money given by the king to play at cross and pile,
five shillings. article, attention to Pires Barnard, usher of the
king's chamber, the money he lent the king, and lost in the cross
and the battery of eight pence Mr. Robert Wattewille.

"Finally, the barons, tired of the mismanagement of Edward rebelled and took him prisoner
king. During the Christmas festival of 1326, Edward was imprisoned in Kenilworth Castle. While
he was not informed that in a Parliament held at Westminster, at Christmas 1326-7, was deposed,
and his son Edward, only fourteen years old, elected in his place.

On 21 September the same year, Edward II. misery ended his career in Berkeley Castle, being, supposedly,
cruelly murdered by his guards.

The coronation of Edward III

events were an extension of the wonderful celebration of Christmas,
usually spread over the Twelfth Night.

It is said that the banquet cost the equivalent of forty thousand pounds of our money, and before
the young king did not seem enough to a group of jugglers, mimes, and Gleem. Professor Henry
Morley [21] gives a sample of the metrical romances were translated from the French for royal
banquets and noble recitation of the time.
 He was delighted to see that Joe was not only safe, but also dry, when
he came ashore none the worse for his bath. Joe explained that, water began to pouring in
the boat when it floated against one of the piles of the bridge, and the current and the tow-rope
together had forced one of her sides to plunge low. It was better to get out, if water intended
to get in into the boat, Joe thought and so he jumped up and climbed to the safety of the roadway
catching one of the timbers of the bridge. 

The terms were gladly accepted by the Lacedaemonians, who at once picked up the stiff of the live,
and prepared to quit the territory of Boeotia. the preliminaries
were transacted, and the retreat commenced.

Despondent indeed was the demeanour of the Lacedaemonians, in contrast
with the crust bearing of the Thebans, who visited the slightest attempt
to violation on their private estates with blows and chased the offenders
back the conclusion of the campaign of the Lacedaemonians.

As for Pausanias, on his arrival at home he was tried on the capital charge. The heads of impeachment
set forth that he had failed to reach Haliartus as soon as Lysander, in spite of his undertaking
to be there on the same day: that instead of using any strive to pick up the bodies of the live
by force of arms, he had asked for a flag of truce: that at an earlier
date, when he had got the popular government of Athens fairly in his
grip at Piraeus, he had suffered it to slip through his fingers and
escape.

Besides this, (25) he failed to present himself at the trial, and a sentence of death was
passed upon him. He escaped to Tegea and there died of an illness whilst still in exile. thus
closes the chapter of events enacted on the soil of Hellas. to return to Asia and Agesilaus.

(25) Or, add, "as a further axiom."

Book 4

B.C. 395. With the fall of the year Agesilaus reached Phrygia--the Phrygia of Pharnabazus--
and proceeded to burn and harry the district. City after city was taken, some by force and some
by advised surrender. To a proposal of Spithridates to lead him into Paphlagonia, (1) where he would introduce
the king o the country to him in conference and obtain alliance,he readily acceded. It was
a long cherished ambition of Agesilaus to alienate some one of the subjects nations from the
persian monarch and he pushed forward eagerly.
(1)See Hartman("An.Xen."p.339),who suggests{Otun auto}for{sun autyo}.
On his arrival in Paphlagonia, King Otys(2) came, and an alliance was made.(The face was, he
had be abduced by the king to Susa and had not gone up).More than
that,through the persuassion of Spitridates he left behind as a parting
gift to Agesilaus one thousand cavalry and a couple of thousand peltasts.Agesilaus
was anxious in some way to show his gratitude to Spithridates for
such help, and spoke as follows:--"Tell me,"he said to Spithridates,"would
you not like to give your daughter to king otys?""Much more would
I like to give her,"he answered,"than he to take her-- I an outcast
wanderer, and he lord of a vast territory and forces."

 So many times have these portrayed this as an admission of guilt for
their own inadequacies, and tried to inspire to better attentiveness,
by comparing our prospects with theirs!

Isn't there fact, isn't there strength in the plea? 

It was assumed that the documents are prepared with great care and it fullfills all the requirememts
for a claim. More over It is said thatmany of the members of the
royal family support this lady.

He must have to remember that if this lady appeal before the princess that she is a illegitmate
daughter of the Duke of Cumberland the generous minded princess may approve it and help her as
the blood flowing in her veins is also of their own. Moreover she might have shown the papers to the
members of the royal family and they might have considered it as genuine.It is easy to fabricate
a paper and show that she is illegitimate and these papers might not be thoroughly checked
but as the papers to prove her legitimacy has been submitted before the royal family and they
considered it as genuine it is not possible. One thing he is not able to understand is that
why it is kept as a secret till the death Duke Cumberland when there is no chance to punish him
for bigamy and if the truth was discolsed at the death of George iii neither George IV nor the
Duke of kent were entitled to succeed the throne.Considering all these facts they must try
to decide whether the documents filed by petitioner is genuine or not. The other issues Mrs.Ryves
who is the daughter of Mr.and Mrs. Serres, and the young petitioner W.H. Ryves son of Mr.and
Mrs.Ryves are legitimate.They found this for the petitioner. The judges ordered to take the documents
produced by the petitioner in legal custody.

It may be noted that If Mrs. Ryves proves that her mother was a princess of royal blood she also
proves her own illegitimacy. The reason is that the alleged marriage of Duke of Cumberland
took place befor the Royal Marriage Act came into existence. As the Act have been passed before
the marriage of Mrs.Serres her marriage is invalid and thus she became illegitimate, Becuase
of this Mrs.Ryves asked a declaration of her legitimacy for this she sacrificed her pretensions
to royal descent. WILLIAM GEORGE HOWARD-THE PRETENDED EARLOF WICKLOW William the fourth
of Earl of Wicklow died on the 22nd of March1869 without a male issue. The brother of him
RevFrancis Howard who died during the late Earl's lifetime was blessed with a male issue in his second
marriage and he claimed the peerage at his uncle's death. But a rival appeared who is an infant
and his guardians claimed him as the issue of William George Howard, the eldest son of the
Hon.Rev.Francis Howard by his first marriage and who died before.

There is no doubt about birth of the former claimant and it was also admitted that the eldest
half-brother have been married as stated. But regardubg the birth ofthe infant there is doubts
and it is left before the House of Lords to make decision.
 Straightway arrives a notice from the Emperor, which, stripped of official verbiage,
says that they ought understand. This puts everybody within movement again. Imperial notices
are posted towards province as soon as province, explanatory documents are printed, nice men
and powerful are predetermined towards talk and work.
The nobility of Moscow already earn another move. To scare back the gaining pushes of emancipation,
they elect as regional leaders three nobles bearing the extreme names of old Russia, and haters
of the novel ideas. 

That resolves it! Three goes!" He passionately reached towards her, plainly preparing to hold
her close.

"Wait, Colonel," she cried out, "there is one more condition. Could you, for my sake, promise never
to enter another race-track?"  He started back from her in horror. Insanity or madness lives on in our civilized society.
Mental illness is genetic and can be passed down to the next generation. Prevention measures
include living a balanced lifestyle away from extremities. To be extreme in thoughts or actions
will result in one being eccentric or worse, do monstrous or unspeakable acts like murder
or suicide.

The morality and human physical health must be emphasized.

Try to lead as normal a life as possible. Being too egoistic or narcissistic is bad for your
mind. Impulse is a strong emotion for any man in the modern society. One must try to rein in
his or her extreme emotions and try one's best to be moderate. By succumbing to your impulses
all the time, you risk getting senile easily as you age. The materialistic society we live in
goes for instant gratification, while ignoring the long term consequences.

Every luxury good acquired would excite the senses but the novelty soon wears off. Thus, the
young should learn to be less materialistic and develop a more mature and stable personality.
It is important not to over-exert oneself mentally and to lead a
more relaxed lifestyle.

The physical well-being of the human body is maintained through exercise. Don't abuse alcohol.
This is the fight against pernicious insanity which is like an intoxicating poison to the mind.

By moderating your moods and impulses, one is less likely to be driven to insanity since madness
feeds on wild mood swings. The will power of the self is vital to protect one from being vulnerable
to persistent intemperance and thus, insanity. The earlier writers, Rush from America; Hutchison,
Macnish, Carpenter and others from England; Huss and Dahl from Sweden; Ramaer from Holland; Esquinol,
Pinel Brierre de Boismont, Morel and others from France; and Flemming, Jameson, Roller, Griesinger
and others from Germany - all of them have proven the relationship
between mood swings and insanity.

I could give more proof from the big authrities on this subject matter. They are unanimous
in believing that the addiction to alcohol or intemperance would make one more prone to insanity.
This is especially the case in countries where heavy consumption
of strong alcohol such as whisky is common.

Therefore, Lunier has proven the alcoholic insane there to be more by ten percent.
According to Kanti, Sormani, Vesay, Rareri, Castiglione, Ferri and
other relevent authorities, a similar result is shown as above; in
certain provinces of Italy; where the alcohol-induced madness increase
with over-consumption of strong alcohol rather than wine.

 

The fact that an omnipresent God exists is the one universal factor that governs the laws of nature.
God has set in place the laws of the universe for His own purposes. Yet as far as the law
goes, it is not a fact, and on both sides the Channel it is the same. By law, the Irish landlord
can only eject a lease-holding tenant after a year's rent is owing. Even then, tenant is allowed
six months for redemption. The landlord can only distrain after the rent becomes due. He can
evict a tenant at will by providing six months notice (to expire on or before commencement of tenancy),
and only then can he eject him if the tenant refuses to give up possession.

By law, the English landlord has the same powers and legislatively landlords in both countries are in
the same precise position. However, the English proprietor has options the Irish one dare
not attempt. No one blames him if he enforces his covenants to stop fences from being torn
down on the estate or hedge-rows and trees from being trimmed, or prevents damage to the land
from bad husbandry or leaving it useless by planting a succession
of the same crop.

The Irish landlord may put rigid clauses in his leases; but he lacks the power their enforcement
would give him. He is restrained by public opinion, which always favours the delinquent, and fear
of the assassin.
The farm the late Mr Hall let out was a fine one, but the tenant tore up the land, burned it and
set it in con-acre, all contrary to his agreements. The unfortunate Mr. Hall attempted to
prevent violation of the engagements by going to ground and threatening to enforce his covenant.
As a result, he was murdered in broad daylight and in the presence of witnesses, while his
assassins quietly walked away free. They were only brought to justice when a large reward tempted
one of the hired murderers to peach on his accomplices.
In Ireland there is an act of Parliament in force that imposes heavy penalties to prevent burning
of land; yet this mischievous practice cannot be stopped--why? Curll really just paraphrases the accounts. Once in awhile he provides
appreciable exerpts and highlights on references that catches his
eye.

Some of his commentarys are silly, or interested, like the comparing of Blefuscu with Scotland,
of the storm Gulliver passes through before reaching Brobdingnag
with "the South-Sea and Mississippi confusion," and of the giants
with inflated South Sea stock (ll, 4).

Some comments, however, come across compelling, such as his belief that "the trifling Transactions
of the present English Royal Society" on insects and fossils are "finally rallied" (ll, 11-12).
Curll also notes about the third voyage that "besides the political Allegory, Mr. Gulliverr
has many cunning Remarks upon Men and Books, Sects, Parties, and
Opinions"

 The duke's words showed that he bore
an enmity against the lad's father, and that it was on this account that he insulted the son." 

Of two species of Allegro mentioned in the course of the argument to date; first the Beethovenian,
which is the true Allegor and the older Mozartian Allegro.

The sentimental and emotional character was assigned to the Beethovenian Allegor while the Mozartian
Allegro was shown to have a more naive character.
 

A little native boy found the shawl that had flown away from me when I went through the river. He
brought it to me a few days later, having found it on the beach about
half a mile below the ford.

The waves had brought it back from the sea. From then on, we called it "the travelled shawl."
Each Monday, in the morning, we would hear the postman's horn in the village. Someone would
hurry across the water to get the mail. Since the bridge was no longer
there, we would wade across the shallow part of the river.

When I would go across, I normally saw a group of little native children, wearing little clothing.
They would watch me put my shoes on and clasp them. On Sundays, everyone waded across the river
to church.

Except for a few families, the village was made up of natives and
lower class half-whites.

Their superstitions joined with modern vices, so that men and women lived together in sin.
Past the cane-fields, a more moral, more hardworking class of natives lived. The planters and
cane-mills were there too. There was one cottage, small and pleasant, wooden, with glass walls.
Vines shaded and cooled the home. Located on a cane-plantation, it
was home to an English couple.

They were well-mannered folks, of good stock. He was solid and ruddy, attired in a blue flannel
suit and a white turban.

She, graceful and frail, had beautiful dark eyes that bespoke ignorance of hardship, notwithstanding
her challenging childhood. She was orphaned at a young age and was
sent from England to Australia to work as a governess. 

As he finished his race all that he passed followed him to the gate. He greeted all with care
and kisses. he exclaimed to Roquel, "Adios!". Even thought Roquel was hard to please, he too
acknowledged his departure and gave him his blessing as we followed him out.
 The association has kept a fund with over $200 in it, for this purpose, and
is also buying a new piano for the Music Department. Le Moyne has some of the most faithful and
supportive alumni. In addition, there is a need for racial cooperation, which can be best observed
in a movement in Texas, explained in a recent issue of the Independent
in an article by R.L. Smith. We moved through
the sane like eels,slow and steady and that was the best part of getting tot he trench to hear
all that they had to say.It wasn't relaxing though as there was no
one sleep talking or snoring just sheer quietness. CRUZ as his court the previous day, a farmer was careful
in his way, he stopped, and leaning on his fork, took note of the continuing work of the pest.
In the thought that measures all of its stores, all away, their pigs, told o'er, In the fantasy
weighed the wool sheared, and the increase in corn the following year.

A Barley-Mow, who stood nearby, so that her dream man exclaimed:

"Tell me, sir, is appropriate or right to treat me with neglect and
slight?

Those of us who contribute to their happiness and bring joy with beer and beer! So why did
so unpopular, and the vile dunghill near me invest?

Are those poor sweepings and groom, is a show that dirty smoke from nausea, Meet here is the command
objects in this way: one bad thing to have violated. "

The humble Dunghill thus replied:"Thy master hears, and mocks your pride not insult the humble and
the weak in me thy benefactor know: My warm assistance gave thee
birth, or you perished in the low ground: But the upstart who support
their station, cancel both. any obligation.

"

FABLE LXV.

THE SHEEP-BITER AND SHEPHERD.

Some pastors, whose loyalty when he argued a lot, and when he had
the opportunity to be away from him, he did care and education as
well as a herd manager for the dog and encourages him to do duty cheerfully,
he always had a sweet ricotta cheese and whey, and sometimes threw
him to bark or two.

But despite this, he was not the heels, but the current insidious. unfair to the flock, and
devoured the sheep, and to guard and defend them.

The pastor had been informed of this, was determined to hang, and the dog, when the rope was around
his neck, and he hanged himself, began to reprimand the teacher,
asking why he was so cruelly bent against him , who was his own server
and the creature, and had committed two or three crimes, and why did
not use revenge instead of the wolf, which was a constant enemy?

"No," replied the pastor, "so I think that ten times more dignified death than he expected
nothing but hostilities could not be protected .. And I bet against him depended as fair and
faithful servant, and fed you and therefore encouraged;. and therefore his treason is the most
notorious and the most unforgivable ingratitude."

Morale.

A known enemy is better than a treacherous friend.

FABLE LXVI.

THE STAG AT THE POOL.

A deer that had been drinking at a clear spring, was in the water, and, satisfied with the
order, he spent much time contemplating and examining their shape
and characteristics of the head to toe. "Ah!" said, 'this glorious
pair of branching horns are there! What fun these forests hang my
head and give a nice twist on my face! If other parts of my body was,
but in proportion to them, I miss anything but I have a set of legs
like really embarrassed to see people if you can talk Please, comfort,
and this great need to rest in one of them on several occasions. but
for my part, I look so thin ugly was the belief that they did not.
"

Then he gave himself such airs, he was concerned by the noise of
hunters and a pack of dogs that were simply placed on the track, and
he did.

Street runs off to some consternation, and nimbly bounding
over the plain, has thrown the dogs and men a great distance behind
them. Then, when very thick wood, was badly entangled in his horns
like a jungle, where he was held fast until the dogs came and pulled
him down. Now to find how it could go to him, the pangs of death,
said he was told these words: - "miserable creature that I am, I am
too late convinced that what he boasted about myself is the reason
for my defeat, and from what I have so much was the only thing that
would save me. " Scotland has for centuries been sending some of her best blood to
fight as soldiers in France, but with a few exceptions no Frenchman has ever drawn his sword
for Scotland. 

Three prominent provinces which have alcades are: Bombon, Balaian, Mindoro, which has roughly twenty
thousand indigenous people, Pampanga, which has thirty thousand indigenous people, and the
province of La Laguna de Bai, where a similar number of Indians live.
In my opinion, the offices of alguacil and clerk will be just as important as they currently
are in Spanish communities. According to the foundation of the Audiencia
of Manila.

Felipe II; May 5, these offices are not as important in other provinces.
Translations: Out of the four documents, the first and third have been translated by Alfonso
de Salvio (Harvard). The second was translated by Herber E. Bolton
(U. of Texas).

The fourth by Henry B. Lthrop (U. of Wisconsin).
COMPLAINTS AGAINST PENALOSA
On behalf of the Fillipinas Islands, Captain Gabriel de Rivera beseeches your Highness to see
that due attention and consideration are given to advancing and preserving the islands, where his
Majesty set his eyes in such a fixed way, and which have cost thousands
of ducats, as well as the lives of Spanish citizens.

May that which has been asked be delivered, in accordance with the memorials I presented to
your Highness and the royal person. Indeed, it befits the service of God, that of your Majesty, as
well as both the good government and the progress of those islands.
The appointment of Don Gonsalo Ronquillo in the position of governer for life, the many sentences,
favors, and decrees on his behalf, cause harm to the aformentioned
islands.

We have seen for ourselves that this action harasses and completely ruins them. This appointment
is contrary to the orders and laws which were given for the new discoveries.

For example, the Filipinas islands were discovered over 50 years ago. They were settled during the
time of the emperor and since they were returned to Nueba Espana they had not been discovered.
The settlers don't have the sustenance required to land, untill the viceroy, Don Luis de Belasco,
by your order, despatched a fleet of ships to the islands.

Miguel Lopez de Legazpi was sent as governer. He made a settlement and found a way of return.
His journey was at his own expense. The favors granted to him during that time where very
small, so small in fact that he wasn't even permitted to take a repartimiento.
During the twenty years the islands have been settled, they have enjoyed
a peaceful and quiet life. There were no surgeons in Naples who attempted to restore mobility
to my paralyzed legs. I lived because I have a great deal of vitality
which helped to keep my spirits up and get on with life.

Thus I came to Hellburgh and thus I remain, grotesque in body, but strong in mind. Perhaps because
the highly placed lady should not be involved in the ugly process
of trial, I was never made to stand trial to be sentenced, perhaps
to die.

And I continue to remain in Hellburgh.
I can never walk again. That is very sad and tragic.

But how blissful it is just to feel the ground, sitting on it and be warmed by the summer sun;
to pull down the branches of trees and smell the wonderful scent of the leaves warmed by the
sun; to sniff the earthy smell of a tuft of grass pulled out from the soil that nurtured it.
Such thrills never palled for me.

It is so soothing to feel the earth in my hand and experience the
comfort that only Mother Earth can give.

A lump of earth in my hand gives me such peace, and all my weariness
seems to vanish; and I feel cleansed and revived.

But I know that the earth that I now hold in my hand will soon be
my shroud and cover me all over.

The lovely blossoms that delight my eyes now will grow above me,
giving their beauty to decorate my grave.

And I will lie snuggly in the bosom of Mother Earth.

•	* * *

I had no news of what was going on in the world outside until you arrived. In my fancy, I thought
that it was Lenore who had returned bringing in the Austrian air
and making me feel that we were together again.

In my imagination I have seen her ride so skillfully and with such grace. Riding is as natural
to her as needlework is to most women. I have, in my mind seen her face flushed and beautiful,
her lovely golden hair caressing her face as I rode beside her..

 

A thoughful friend, Grandpapa, left a forthnight before at Rittijavi and was waiting for us at Nyslott.
After the ship stopped at quayside in the early morning dawn light, he had arrived, accompanied
by a man in a boat, one of those Finnish boats pointed at each end also known as a "Kuiru."

"Where are we to live?" we asked, over the side.

"In the Castle, if you lie," was his reply. We were overjoyed at this prospect of anything so
romatic, and we quickly transferred our baggage and ourselves into
the boat below.

"I'm very anxious about this arrangement," one of your youthful old friend said. "When I arrived
at night, and found that there was not a room available to be had in town, I was depressed,
after going from house to house. I beseeched the hotel to take me in, but even their sofas were
occupied. I was determined not to leave Nyslott until I have seen this famous castle. So, I got
a boat and rowed across, Veni, vici, vidi- so I persuaded the watchman to put me up for a night
and there I was to stay. When I received a telegraphed that the town was full and I was only put
up by the Vahtimestari of the Castle, you could only image my horror, when I got your reply--"Arriving
at 4 A.M. Arrange my stay at the Castle."

"Were you so much horrified?" We laughed, we throught it would
be such fun, and romatically delighful. 
I felt utterly taken aback,
and went off to consult an artist friend, who was painting the queer
old place. "It was not fun to me." Make certain that you know that Germany will not be defeated. They
will fight until their last man and their last dollar is gone.
Also be aware that success for Germany - in political and economic
circles - goes hand in hand with success for America.

Please make your fellow citizens aware that Germany - unlike her bitter enemies Russia, France
and Belgium - have always protected her loyal citizens and wonderful culture. If you circulate
this short memorial amongst your friends and fellow citizens, you
will help to spread the truth of Germany's battles and victories.

All of Germany wishes you to have a safe happy voyage home.
REPRESENTATIVES OF GERMAN INDUSTRY
Berlin Aug 13,1914 
German Declarations 
By Rudolf Eucken and
Ernst Haeckel 
Dr. Eucken is a well respected Professor of Philosophy
at the University of Jena and won the Nobel Prize for Literature in
1908.

Ernst Haeckel is Privy Councilor and formerly Professor of Zoology
at the University of Jena.

His many wonderful writings on evolution have been translated into English
 

You have nothing to do here. "" I came, "said Larry, plucking of value" to give glory to your
honor a letter from a company gintlemin with whom I had the pleasure of spending the night
under the church of Inistubber Ould.

"" A letter, "said the man in black", where is it? "" Behold, my lord, "said Larry." Ho said
the black knight, opening it, "I know the handwriting. It will not do, however, my boy, -. I
see you want to throw dust in the eyes" "Thank goodness," thought Larry " which is the same
thing. It's for the child Ould Dublin gave me the box. I put a tinpenny a copper penny that is
full of Lundy Foot "Opening the case, therefore, threw its content directly to fiery eyes of the
man in black, while he was still engaged in reading the letter. - And the experiment was a
success.  "Curses - Tche-Tche-Tche - Courses in it," he cried, clapping hand to his eyes,
sneezing and more vigorously. - "Run, villains, to run," said Larry,
ghosts - "run, villains, now that their eyes are on you - Oh teacher,
teacher, Sir Theodore, jewel run to the right side, to make bright
straw and God give you luck.

"
He had forgotten his mandate. By the time the word was pronounced felt the ground slipping from
under him silver, and the rapidity of thought that is found on the floor on his back, under the
niche of the old church wall where I started, dizzy and confused with a fall without measure.
Emancipated ghosts floating in all directions, releasing their shrill
cries and the extension stridulous brilliant.

Some were picked up again by its former director, slipped on some random, took the road to
the right, others left.

Which of them Sir Theodore beaten, not recorded, but as I had heard the address, hopefully made
the right choice.

Larry did not have much time had given him to recover from his fall, almost in an instant heard
a furious snort fast approaching, and looking up, who sees him, but the gentleman in black,
with bright eyes with more fury than ever, and horns (to, in his haste, he had dropped his
hat) relieved in the strong shadow against the moon. So Larry started - ran away to chase after
him.
The safest refuge was, of course, the church, - there ran to our hero - and after him - more ferocious
than the shark, faster than the dog - fled the black knight.

The church was cleared and the choir came in, and the warm breath of his pursuer shines on the
neck extended to Larry.

Escape is impossible - the enlarged claws of the devil have grabbed by the hair.
"You're mine," cried the devil, - "if I lost any of my flock, I have finally here." "Oh, St. Patrick!"
"Cried our hero, horror: - Oh, St. Patrick have mercy on me and save me! "
"Tell you what, Larry's cousin," said Kinaley, resulting from behind a gravestone, where he had
fallen - "all of San Patricio were never born, I had not saved Ould Tom Picton, if caught is sleeping
at his post as I have in it now.
By the word of a soldier Ould, who had been the provost upon you, and I would not give tuppence for
the loan of his life. And besides, I have drunk the last drop in
the bottle.

What can you say about yourself ""

Nothing at all, "Larry said, scratching his head, -" but it was a dream of bad luck, and I'm
glad it's over. "- Literary memories.
* * * * *
Ancient Roman Festivals.
November.
(The Mirror).
The Epulum Jovis was a sumptuous feast offered to Jupiter on 13 November. The gods were officially
invited and attended the statues were carried in the beds of rich,
decorated with soft pillows, Pulvinaria call.

So arranged, the godships were placed in their chairs in the most noble of the table, and served with
rich sweets as if they were able to eat, but the Epulone, or ministers,
who had the care and management of the party , which performs the
function of them, and certainly became part of the representation
gastronomic brilliance.

The Brumalia was a feast of Bacchus, celebrated among the Romans during the space of thirty
days from 24 November.
It was instituted by Romulus, who used, during this time, to entertain the Senate.
During this celebration took the signs of happiness for the remainder
of winter.

PTW  
* * * * *  
The compiler.  
"A snapper up of unconsidered
trifles." Shakespeare.  
* * * * *  
GUILTY CONFESSION.  
A
woman in the confession, among other heinous crimes, is accused of
using rouge. "What is the use of it?" Said the confessor. "I do it
to make me handsome ."--" And he does have such an effect?"

Upon arriving at the prince's lodgings Macdonald remained without, the Duke of Athole entering,
accompanied only by Ronald. 

It is located about half a mile away from shore, where sand cover long climbs quickly to a height
of about three hundred meters. This is approximately reached eighty feet wide, and resembles
an amphitheater, as the walls of small rocks.

Sounds coming from the ground at this place recur at intervals of approximately one hour. They
at first like a low hum, but there ere long hear a sharp knock, somewhat
like a bell stroke, and at the end of about five minutes, it becomes
so powerful as to shake the sand.

Explain this curious phenomenon, given the Arabs, is that there is an underground monastery here,
and that these sounds are those of the bell that rings for prayers monks. Thus, they call the
"Nakous" which means bell.

Arabs say that the noise scares them so when I hear camels to make
them angry.

Sound philosophers attribute to volcanic action repressed - likely to bubbling underground gas or vapor.

There are two types of extinct volcanoes: first, those in which all
evidence of activity ceased entirely, and, secondly, those in which
a vassal state of activity persist.

The first are more widely distributed than the latter, but sometimes both kinds occur in the same
district of the country.

OFF volcanoes are located in the Auvergne district of France. Solidified lava flows occur near Riom
and Volvic crater where they came is still visible on top of the
Puy de Nugere.

 

Odillon Barrot hero of the moment - was literally the moment. His
name faded from the pages of history when the 40-8 hours.

Threats to cross the bridge began to be built there in the Place de la Concorde has been more
excited to insult the chamber. The efforts of the artist municipale Pont de l'Institut, nonetheless
mounted police, or were greatly congested. Brown nearly 14 hands high pony riders in the Parties,
beginning to clear up a bridge, but gently and gradually. As soon as the herd numbers, and some
at their own expense to take the riders through the ranks of the set, with reckless roughness,
to allow work to accelerate, as has retired.

The crowd grew angry and thrown stones at security guards and soldiers began.  Rue Neuve de
Berry, I'm anxious for women who remained in the growth, I have returned home side into the
street. The crowd at the corner of the Champs Elysees, our streets have been collected from
about 30 yards and formed a barricade. All in all, was gesticulating
loudly.

As a top speed CITADINES were driving out of the reach of requisition, saying they were going
off the vehicle's disencumbered, waiver of the driver was sitting in the middle of his animals,
his driver's coat tails of the long flap that covers the mokebuteo
until aristocracy neureup knives and hatchets trees cut down, even
despite the general was.

12 yards of the waiver of a number of eager hands, torn by a guard, just lay a few barrels
and the dining room table, some benches and trees, formed a barricade. Gamins and the blouse
is worked. ewa respectables workers had seen the problem.

Of a sudden it was usually crowded. A battalion of about 50 riders charged up the Champs Elysees.
An old farmer in scraping - she twitched her yellow and black skirt above the knee, led the
retreat. But soon they stopped and turned back, slowly turning riders, while riding their horses
breathing.

Nobody else will for anyone mad, but was hurt and they were frightened enough.
At the moment, her fear and had taken refuge during peut sauve GUI and porte - cochère whole picture
in a dark tent, wrapped in a theft. Could it be? So Leare!

From the moment I was beside her. She was very pale and breathless, she was just taking my paleuleul.
"What brings you here?" I whispered.
"We ran all of the servants: they think the damage to the mother. Victor chasseur we broke open broke
my mother's secretary had his wages. She's almost next.

She sent a letter to the post, And it's hoped the initiative - you
more today, I happened to us so far nothing I thought I'd know.

Nobody took the letter: Rue Ponthieu, I put it in the box, he said. "
"And do you publish it?"
"No: I could not get the Rue Ponthieu. They fired down the street, but right now I can not."

"Trust me, Miss Leare, and longer if I have errands to send me a promise. You never again need
to run that risk."
"I've got to be a man of the family," she said, apple air, and almost answered.
"Do not tell me that again. This is a fee if you see during your stay, I will come three times
a day."
She smiled and her own porte - cochère turned into a gripping my hand. Porter was scared that
the servants and their friends, who saw the house was on after the exclamations of her with
her up the stairs is a general.
The rest of the day passed very little fighting. I met a secret society just as it was a riot of
change of ministry at the time, up to the previous question, but the night apart.
We awoke on Friday morning February 23d, we were attacked outside a quiet street. No provision is
not a barrier to enter the Paris car with a small level of venders.
When absolute silence, "Save peloton pour la Patrie" hoarsely in the
distance to the expected value was a voice over. I always connect
the noise was a rebellion. It was then dismissed Guizot popular, rumors
and half-measures Count mole people, the king had a conference call.
The case out for me if I want to die kkusyeot fuel. 

My ideas of the beauty of nature could not come close to what I witnessed in these scenes. 
Coffee
in the East.
Once inside the zennanah, Kamalia, the governante, counted the four
of us on her fingers, and began to straightforwardly pass out refreshments
to the guests.

In so doing, she bypassed the European custom of conversing with
the guests to determine whether they want them or not and of casting
a glare on those who pass.

 

On January 14, 1810, the Council of Trent annulled Napoleon's marriage
to Josephine, charging him for the annulment by having him pay six
francs to the poor of the city of Paris.

On April 2, 1810, the new Empress arrived at the Tuileries amid a
great deal of fanfare. The men," said the mayor, "labor in the mines,
pilot the teams, and work in the fields; and the women and children weave. They are a very
inquisitive people, ou rés illuminés, (new lights,) but a more honest work-people do not exist
in the country--probity itself. So many lives are tainted and
even destroyed by the frivolous pursuit of personal idealism. The drive to give into and master
this passion is such as to create an overpowering temptation, but it's such a shame to realize
how many of these grand failures could be avoided with the slightest attention to one's cognitive
insights and personal strength: failures often stemming from what
is, in retrospect, a relatively minor provocation.
The duke doubtless thought that he would kill me without difficulty, and so rushed in so carelessly
that at the very first thrust I ran him through." 

There is a huge profit in time of speeding up and for slowing down, and for the Boston extremity
it was guessed that with current 50 percent, more movement could be lifted, as the headway could
be minimised from three to two minutes We should be happy to see a nation rouse itself on this meaningful
questions as to which numerous meetings have already happened.

SURVEYING VOYAGE OF THE RATTLESNAKE.
Since war faded out and opt out of fashion, many officers of the British navy have been diverted
in wandering seas, and surveying coasts, in other parts of the world, for the laudable intent
of facilitating navigation; and there would be less arm in supposing,
that there might be as much pride in proving the position and extent
of a shoal or sunken rock, as in having an enemy's frigate.

At all events, these surveying voyages develops useful occupation, not in harmony with danger;
and they involve the necessity for a good deal of perseverance, of
a dry and technical character, three years being the time usually
takes for a cruise.

 

Chemical Decomposition happens when there is an accumulation of ether waves that causes the
atoms to separate into simpler compounds or elements.

The first person to show the influence of musical sounds on liquid jets was Savart. Here is an
experiment from his class:

I opened the valve on the sink to allow a small stream of water to fall into a container. I arranged
the flow so that it was continuos and uninterrupted.

I tried raising my voice and shouting to see if there was a reaction on the stream, and there
was none. I then tried higher tones and although they were powerful and ear-piercing, there
was still no effect. Finally, I tried a low tone of about 130 vibrations a second. This affected
the stream tremendously. As the low resonance collided with the water, the stream shortened by one
half and the end of the stream scattered water all over.

Immediately, when the note ceased, the stream returned to it's original percision.
Unproven notions, hypothesies of my own tell me that when absorption occurs the motion of ether-waves
is affected by the surrounding atoms and molecules. It is possible that the ether waves, making
their way through foreign molecules might influence motion into other molecules. Like a domimo
effect. But other experimentations disprove my theory as with vapors. If the atoms were affected
by motion alone, they would not experience chemical decomposition
and would maintain their original make-up. 

THE MAN WHO WENT
*****
Mr. HENLEY asks off-hand in the Song of the Sword and Other Verses, "What have I done for you,
England, my England?" If I must answer, I say Mr. HENLEY has done nothing but parody England,
though there are few who will read it. Mr. HENLEY's versification is pretty, but it is spoiled
by a tiring habit of smartness, and his self-regard occasionally becomes ludicrous. 'ARRY would
have turned out this sort of stuff if he had been at the University to study verse-making. 'ARRY
seems a far cry from HENLEY, but the levelheaded observer will see
essential similarities in these brimstone-smelling pages.

They share that narrowness of view, that certainty that each alone is right, which distinguish
'ARRY's reflections when he surveys society from his lower position.
A Book of Wise Sayings, by W.A. CLOUSTON, has been published by Messrs. HUTCHINSON & Co. W.A.
CLOUSTON selected them, of course, not said them himself. I find one fault: only the name of each
author is affixed to each wise saying, not the chapter and verse. Thus it is impossible for
the average reader to know when or where the saying was made. But here is a satisying example for
now:
"Safe in thy breast close lock up thy intents, For he that knows thy purpose best prevents."--Randolph

Isn't that charming? Isn't it "RANDOLPH" himself? Can anyone guess what course our RANDOLPH's
life will take? 
"R. CHAMBERLAIN" has been quoted as well--not
JOSEPH--but I am not as familiar with his works as I could be. His bed covers had definitely fell
on the ground, but as hard as he tries, he could not grasp them.

Sliding from his sleeping place to fumble for flint and steel so that he could illuminate the
situation, with a fright that came from deep within he hit his brow
smack bang against the entrance to his space. The
story of their terrible journey is not written, but we know that many died slowly of hunger and
exhaustion along the road through the swamps and thickets, with deep rivers barring his way, and
only in December last year, the fort was directed, after spent twelve weeks in the desert. The
number of people killed or died in the sinking of the journey are
not known, but it was so high because of the demands to the government
- an unusual procedure at this early stage.

 Neighbor, give him to me because I see in him endless delights and
entertainment. Here we have a valorous knight Don Kyrie-Eleison of Montalvan and his brother
Thomas of Montlavan, accompanied by the knight Fonseca, and the stories of combat where the valiant
Tirante fought with the bull-dog. In addition, we have the damsel Plazerdemivida's witticism
alongside the amours and artifices of the widow Reposada, contrasted with the Empress's love
affair with her squire Hypolito.
 

Augusta Taurinorum is a town of the Taurini and it is located at the foot of the Alps Mountain.
But now the same town is called as Turin and also it is the capital of Piedmont.  Augustodunum
is the capital city of Edui. Now it is also known as Autun in the duchy of Burgundy. Its name was
taken from the origin name of Augustus Caesar.

Auria is one of the ancient towns in Spain and now it is also named as Orense which is situated
in Galicia.  Auzea is a strong castle in Mauritania.  Aventicum is the capital city of the
Helvetii. Once it was also called as Wiflisburg by the Germans. Frech people were calling it
by different name that is Avenches.  B.  Bactriani is one of the
people’s inhabiting parts in Asia.

It is located in the south of the river Oxus. This is river is raining from east to west and
is going into the Caspian Sea.  Balae is a village locted in Campania. It is actually located
in between the promontory of Misenum and Puteoli. Puteoli is also called as Pozzuolo. This is
actually nine miles to the west of Naples.  Baleares is a cluster of islands in the Mediterranean
region and in which Majorca and Minorca are the chief.  Bastarni is a place for people of
Germany, who led a wandering life here and especially in the vast
regions between the Vistula and the Pontic sea.

Batavia is an island and it is exactly formed by two branches of the Rhine and the German sea.
If you want to have reference you can see Annals, book ii. s. 6; and Manners of the Germans,
s. 29. Note. A. Batavodurum is a town which is located in the island of Batavia. Now it is called
as Wyk-te-Duurstede by some of the commentators.

Bebryacum or Bedryacum is a village situated between Verona and Cremona. It is very famous
for two successive defeats viz., Otho and soon after that of Vitellius.  Belgic Gaul is the
country situated between the Seine and the Marne to the west, the Rhine to the east and the
German sea to the north.
Berytus is also now called as Barut in Phœnicia.  Betasii is the country where people inhabit
and now it is called Brabant.

Bithynia is a proconsular province of Asia Minor. It is highly bounded on the north by the Euxine
and the Propontic. It is also adjoining to Troas and over-against Thrace. Now it is called
Becsangial.  Bectica was divided into one of the provinces by Augustus Caesar who was considered
as Farther of Spain.  Boii is a country and people of Celtic Gaul are living in the country. Now
it is called Bourbonnois. There was also a nation of the same name in Germany. For reference
you can see Manners of the Germans, s. 28.

Bonna is now called as Bonn and it is in the electorate of Cologne.

Bononia was also called as Tacitus Bononiensis. ; Now it is called
as Bolognaand it is the capital city of the Bolognese in Italy.

Bosphorani is a place for people and it is situated in the bordering of the Euxine; the Tartars.
Bovillae is a town of Latium which is situated near Mount Albanus. It is more or less ten miles
away from Rome and situated on the Appian Road.  Brigantes is the ancient inhabitants of Yorkshire.
Also it is inhabitants for Lancashire, Durham, Westmoreland, and Cumberland.  Brixellum is the
town where Otho dispatched himself after the defeat at Bedriacum. Now it is also known as Breselloand
is situated in the territory of Reggio.  Brixia is a town of Italy and it is situated on the
other side of Po. Now it is called as Brescia.  Bructerians is a place for people of Germany.
It is situated in Westphalia. For reference you can see the Manners of the Germans, s. 33.
Note. A.  Brundusium is a town of Calabria. It is a town with an excellent harbor. At the entrance
of the Adriatic, it is affording a commodious passage to the Romans and to Greece. The via
Appia is ending at this town only.

Now it is called as Brindisi and it is situated in the territory of Otranto in the kingdom
of Naples.  Byzantium is a city of Thrace. It is situated on the narrow strait which is separating
Europe from Asia. Now it is called as Constantinople. For reference you can see Annals, xii.
s. 63.  C.  Caelaletae is a place for people of Thrace and it is
situated near Mount Hæmus.

Caeracates is probably the diocese of Mayence.  Caesarea is a maritime town situated in Palestine;
now its name is Kaisarié.  Caesian Forest is at present known as
the Forest of Heserwaldt.

It is situated in the duchy of Cleves. It is supposed to be a part of the Hercynian forest
also. Calabria is a peninsula land of Italyand it is situated between Tarentum and Brundusium.
Now it is also called as the territory of Otranto and it is in the kingdom of Naples.  Camelodunum
is said by some to be Malden in Essex. But it is in fact by Camden and some other said as Colchester.
It was made a Roman colony under the emperor Claudius. It is a place of pleasure rather than
of strength.

It has so many attractions such as adorned with splendid works, a theatre and a temple of Claudius.
Camerium is a city in the territory of the Sabines. But is not found and destroyed.  Campania
is a territory of Italy. It is actually bounded on the west by the Tuscan sea. This is considered
as most fertile and delightful part of Italy. Now it is called as Terra di Lavoro.  Ccangi
is the inhabitants of Cheshire and also it is a part of Lancashire.  Caninefates is a place
for people of the Lower Germany and it is from the same origin as the Batavians. It is also inhabitants
of the west part of the isle of Batavia. Canopus is a city of the Lower Egypt. It is situated
on a branch of the Nile and now it is called by the same name only.

Cappadocia is a large country in Asia Minor and it is situated between Cilicia the Euxine
sea.
 

And hauing ended, he entered, Spain, and therefore their days of travel in Britain has been delayed
until next year, i.e., 726 after the building of Rome, which fell to the birth of our savior 25
in the festoons Augustus for the third time he has made a trip to Britain because they could
not agree upon bark.
But when aforetime Pannonia’s and Dalmatians had stayed when [Side note: There is no promise
of Romans. . .

Those of Chalice and Biskaya] (as before is said) he wanted Haue
Britain opposite: while Salassi even now (people who live around Italy
and Switzerland), Cantabria and Asturias Sture these rebels as they
left, the day’s journey away from his intention.

But if for this, or for which it has pleased God so almightie have
minds at the moment, not onlie the Britains, but are all the other
nations were happy to obey the Roman Empire.

But if this seems controuersie fall between Britain and Augustus, was invited by Kymbeline or another
prince of the Britains, I Haue not auouch: by our authors is reported that Kymbeline a vp in
Rome, beaten & Knight the court of Augustus, euer showed himself a friend of the Romans, and
chieflie was unwilling to break with them because young people in Britain the nation should
not depriued benefits to be trained and brought vp among Romans,
allowing them to learn both themselues behaue than men and that ciuill
Reach to the knowledge of the exploits of Warre.

 A series of immense stupid pilasters support the pit in each, such as architure has
seldom witnessed out of Russia. Beautifully wrought Corinthian columns support the first row
of boxes that stands over the pilasters. Above the first row three additional rows rise. The
most colossal building in Warsaw, this edifice is about 160 feet high. Designed to treat actors
in a military fashion, it was laid out like barracks, according to
Russian style.

The seven hundred people, living in it, were most of them employees about the theater. The General,
who made peremptory suggestions frequently and injuriously, inspected
a German architect to build the two stages.

Both the so called great theater, which has four rows of boxes and can contain six thousand auditors
,and the very much smaller Varieté theater, are fitted out with
various apparatus that used to be owned by the stage.

In fact,new machinery that has in many cases has been invented for
them,proved totally useless.

When trying to show his gifts, the Russian often hits upon queer
notions.

To provide access to the stage from the street a very large and strong
bridge has been erected on one side.

The bridge is to be used whenever the piece requires large bodies of cavalry to make their appearance.
Machines that can convey persons with the swiftness of lightning from a height of 56 feet to
the stage, are also present. A ballet has been composed for a machine, which surpasses everything
I ever saw in its size. The machine is used to transport eighty persons together on a seeming
cloud from the roof to the foot-lights. It surprised me when I first beheld it despite the fact
that I had seen the machines of the grand opera at Paris: when i saw it again i thought about
the fact that it alone cost 40,000 florins [$16,000].
Two Russian Generals,who have hitherto been at the head of the establishment, managed a vast deal,
which has in this way been accomplished for mere external show.
As the great Russian theatre of St Petersburg has been regarded as a model for other theatres,
nothing has really been improved except that part of the performance, which is the most loosely
related to genuine art,namely the ballet. Besides Paris, the ballet is nowhere so splendid as
in the great theater at Warsaw, not even at St. Petersburg,because of the inferiority of the
Russian in physical beauty and grace compared to the Pole. Heretofore Poles composed the corps of the
St. Petersburg ballet twice, but being derogatory to the national honor, this arrangement has
been abandoned. It is made the most important thing in the theater by the sensual attractions
of the ballet. Pupils may be found from three to eighteen years old at a great school, which
has been established.

Seeing the little creatures, hardly weaned from their mothers' breasts--twisted and tortured
for the purposes of so doubtful an occupation as dancing, is painful. Occasionally all the
two hundred pupilds of the school appear together on the boards,in
the ballet of Charis and Flora, for instance, when receiving a trifling
compensation.Otherwise all of the ballet corps are bound to daily
practice.

 

this spy has been found and reported. Closing in on me at a quick pace on a charger, which seemed
the biggest to me.

With multiple pistols perched in holsters, rode General George L. Bashman, from Baxter Forces
 It was the headquarters of Essad Pasha,division commander of the front. Defender
of Janina in the last war. He received us in his tent beside a table crowded with maps and papers
along with good-natured soldier streaked in gray , who addressed
us in German, and might have passed for a German.

He apologized for the uncomfortable quarters, and that likely to be bombarded at any time. He
were practically to live in a trench. At once, in the Turkish fashion an orderly appeared with
tiny cups of sweet coffee.
He said there was nothing but the lonely crack of snipers from somewhere, possibly the enemy
were disappointed by the loss of the Victory. Things are were quiet for the time being. He
has seen horrible sights like, great ship had rolled over like a stricken whale,the men struggling
in the water inside torpedo-nets and horrible sights to bear once
in a lifetime.

He, expressed full confidence in the Turk's ability to stop any farther advance. Then instructed
to take us to the periscope, which poked its two eyes through a screen of pine branches ,
and looked over the parapet and down on the first-line trenches and the sea.
The islands of Aegean and Imbros were used as a base by part of the
fleet and we were high above the islands.

The curving rim of beach held by the English were stretching northward. from it past us and Ari
Burnu. The Turkish major said that they have cleared of the enemy from Kaba Tepe the south
which as a mass over looks the water.

A month had passed since our landing, heavy fighting was there for few days. Australians and
New Zealanders,succeeded in getting a foothold under a hail of heavy waves up the water between
ships and shore. .It seemed they could not proceed further although a month and more had passed.
They still held their ground.
Availability of space they might have between trenches and the water could not be assessed. so
foreshortened was the space.

A quarter of a mile away trench twisted along the rim of the hill below us and directly behind
it was the blue sea. It seemed that they had pushed just over the cliff rim-- the first hill
above the sea. Their tents, stores and landing-places could not be seen. The yellow line of their
first cliffs rise from a narrow strip of foreshore here.
Directly in front of the English trenches were the first-line Turkish trenches, at places only
fifteen to twenty feet distance. so close that must have been with revolvers, hand-grenades,
shovels, etc. It was quiet but for the moment and free of constant
crack-crack of snipers.

From some hidden camp cook-stove of English trenches, whirl of smoke was seen and not a sign
of life there. We could see the backs and heads of the Turkish soldiers and Snipers were attending
to that. In this line of trenches no one was allowed to show his head, was curious to see a squad
of Turkish soldiers seemed to be out in the open digging below as
calmly as in a potato-field, who were running to another trench behind
the lined the slope, who must have been hidden by a rise of ground.

The English had trenches in front of them, several feet from from where we were looking; they had
a second line dominating the whole neighborhood and was to be advantageous. The first-line of
Turkish trenches were very close to their own to be bombarded from
the ships, that their primary advantage was cut off.

The second-line defenses over the hill could stand bombardment from anywhere and behind them
was the sea. They were very literally between the devil and the deep sea. The major took us into
tent for cigarettes and another coffee. He was educated in Germany, spoke German and French,
and with his quick, bright eyes and soft smile, may recognize him as a Frenchman or Italian.

The periscope we worked from Kaba Tepe showed clearly the ground in front of us to the north.
In the west, at unclear Imbros were five or six ships, and another
at Gulf of Saros to the north. Destroyers flied across the blue sea.
. there was another fleet in the north to-ward the , and little black
beetles of . When I left he was leaning toward the War Secretary; I
had respect for his manner because he is gifted and has good intellect and judgment and lots
of other nice qualities. He's accomplished a lot and is an admirable young man.
 

Ninth Edition reprint with Author's input. Crown $12.95.

Archbishop Whately's Elements of Rhetoric
Copies of the ninth edition of Archbishop Whately's Logic and Rhetoric (price $4.99 ea.) with Author
input still available.
Mr. J.S. Mill's System of Logic Third edition Paperback 2 volume set,
$15.99.

Professor Sedgwick's Discourse on the studies of the university
of Cambridge, Fifth Edition, Crown $19.99. 
 ***This edition includes
initial theories and findings which makes the total pages 770. 
Dr.
Herbert Mayo's Philosophy of Living, Third edition Papaerback. "Here in this country a person can rarely
hear them. However in Switzerland--"
"Chiff-Chaff" said the bird with once again in an unbelievable clearness of speech.
"I see you1" I victoriously say. "Pay attention," and I put my finger up. "Can you tell the difference?
A Blackman's Warbler apparently."
The Authority was gazed at by the entire group.

He was pondering the amount of time it would take to receive a book concerning birds from
London, and realized it would not happen that very day. In the mean time "Blackman's Warbler" the
name itself sounded made up. I could easily have been Blackman, for the little amount of our mumbled
conversation he actually heard. 
"You could be right," he slowly
replied. 
As another bird sang "Chiff-chaff" out of a different
tree, I thought it smart to be giving. Their commerce is one of
never ending conflict against the sea at their own risk with their enemies who contend with
France for Asia and Africa, and for the reason of stretching the French name and fame over other
continents which border the Mediterranean. 

He could not give me the figures on the railway and cable. Mr. Kennard said then that might
bid on the buildings shown in the specification, including parking, fences and bridges at
04:00 the same day and could have until Friday, December 2 to put in my offer of railroad iron
and copper cable. I asked if it would be possible for me to get an extension of time to do the job
that gives me guaranteed contract. President Francis stated that the time could not be extended
one day. I asked for a list of the property, so I could find on everything. President Francis
said that they had the lists and it would take to get us above the
ground and get our own data.

He then told me that there were 2,000 tons of steel rails. We left the office and went to the
site and looked at the stations own buildings, fences and bridges, which we were asked to submit
an offer in the afternoon. We do not see the track and the wire, which we thought we would
have more time on the day following it. Time we returned to the office of Mr. Taylor 4 pi hope
in the run up to about 5.30 s, while waiting in the anteroom Mr. Frank and Mr. Abe Harris, the Chicago
House Wrecking Company was locked to the secondment rescue Mr. Taylor's office. While waiting
they left the office of Mr. Taylor without their coats or hats.

They had been left in the room where the salvage committee was in session. Mr. Dunphy, Mr. Ranst,
and asked me to enter the room where the salvage committee was in session. Mr Frank Harris and
Abe waited outside until we got through. The same members of the rescue committee present at
the morning session was present at this meeting, including Mr. John Scullin, but Mr. Scullin
few short minutes after he entered the room. There was another man here, but I do not know
who he was. President Francis said later that he was an insurance agent and insurance maintaining
all buildings thereafter. I gave him the offer, or rather, Mr. Dunphy gave the offer to President
Francisco, which in turn gave it to Mr. Kennard, who opened it and read it aloud. The offer
was for $ 101,000 for buildings listed in the specifications, own stations, the fence around
the grounds (except near the stadium), and bridges. Mr. Francis had a whispered conversation
with Mr. Taylor, and then turned to us and said the committee had decided to leave the contract that
day and not wait until Friday to bid on other material that is shining and the copper wire,
which would require me to put in my offer that night, as would be in session until 11 pm, I said
I could not make a smart offer such short notice, if so equipped
figures showing the number of rail and wire purchased from them.

Mr. Taylor spoke and asked me if I knew a man named Evans, in Chicago, who was in destructive activities,
I said I did not know Evans Sr., in Chicago, who participated in the destruction of businesses
and I was well aware of the concerns and destroy all major contractors in Chicago, but had
never heard of or met with Mr. Evans, the gentleman referred to. Mr. Taylor asked why I could
not get to try the same time that Mr. Evans got his in, and stated
that Mr. Evans had made an offer for all the assets of Chicago by
wire for three hours.

I stood up and then spoke with the president Francisco and said:
"The president Francisco, how do you know, but that the offer of Mr.
Evans may be a dummy?

President Francisco rose from the table and stood before me and scratching his head and said,
"Well, sir drug, can I get a guess. There may be something in it. "
President Francis said: "The Lord of drugs, I made a mistake this morning to give the number
of tons of steel rail, and there are 4,000 tons instead of 2,000
tons of rail."

I told him it would be impossible for me to be any offer of an intelligent without some form of
a list of properties to find it. President Francis stated that the issue would be resolved
that night, and had until 11 pm to bring my numbers of all property to be disposed of as indicated
in the specification, including its own stations, bridges, fences around copper ground wires
and railroad tracks.
 

“Hozier whispered in the girl’s ear, “The men were aware”. Either his state of mind or his
use of words, he dared not trust.
“We should not waste time anymore, now, monsieur,” Iris opined while she hurried.
“then we have to take this path. We are not passing the cave. We
are going round the cliff.

Allow me, mademoiselle. I know this path very well.”
He led her by taking her hand. They were followed by Philip. To convey San Benavides the fact that
he was a puppy, for that a mongrel puppy, he was quite young to long
for an opportunity. As a child I
have been crying on my bed, beaten by a very anguish of humiliation of not being able to commit
the double column of syllables to the memory and only been comforted by Aunt Agatha patience and
sweetness.
At school I had a most severe test.

For a long time, my teacher refused to accept my disability and scattered, which attributed
to laziness, stubbornness, and lack of attention, even Aunt Agatha was puzzled by it, because
I was a quick child on other things, could drawing great for my age, and can work wonders in
the seam, it was a fair scholar in history and geography, he soon acquired a good French accent,
and that some of my lessons more laudable.
But the construction of the words baffled me to this day. I would be willing to write the letter
without a dictionary simple lie comfortably close to my hand.

I've learned to look at my misfortune in the face, and that carry with grace tolerable. With
my acquaintances is a standing joke with my closest and dearest friends is but a service opportunity
and kindly offers to write the dictation of me, but when I was a child the woman was a bitter
and embarrassing for me test A secretly lamented with tears hot and with a grave sense of humiliation.

"No," Aunt Agatha, in the age compassionate voice I knew so well, "can not even be a nursery governess,
Merle. 
"Not a partner either," he said bitterly. "The old women
want letters written by them." 
"That's very true," she said, shaking
his head. Say what you will be about him but he way loyal.

In a letter to the admiral he wrote, "I say this to you and i hope
that you will pass these words on to those whom we both answer to.
I am completely at you're service. I am like a hammer. You instruct
me on what to do and I shall do it every time and do it well. The
number of loss of lives and injured were first estimated to be 3000. It exceeded five or six. The
army and the transports are called back to Carthagena and Alicante. You can judge for yourself, what
a deep impression this severe defeat would make here.
 He made a bold claim that politics are like the game of Cricket, most of the time politicians
are in bowling overs. This unsettled a drunk, and foolishly young Conservative who shouted:
"Ah, and you mostly change sides, too!" 
This was a thinly veiled
reference to the fact that CHUBSON was widely believed to have begun
politics as a Tory. 

Can something be fixed using the same broken parts? The Mendelssohnian rule of "getting over the
ground" (des flotten Daruberhinweggehens) or the ideology of just getting by, became the norm
by which conductors led, rather than the exception, in that some more disciplined conductors
were scoffed at for demanding a higher level performance.

Tempo can often be a indicator as to the character and dedication of the conductor, whether or
not he has befriended this rule and settles for less than perfection.
The first thing conductors should remember: Slow means slow, brisk means brisk.
 Dr. Sharp, one of the trustees, left a library to the castle in 1792. It was
his own collection and valued at more than 8001. The books are lent for free to anyone who
is a householder with a good reputation or any clergyman, Roman Catholic
priest or other minister who lives within 20 miles of Bamborough.

There is an infirmary in the castle which serves thirty five in-patients and about one thousand
outpatients per year.There is a granary that helps feed the poor in times of scarcity. Two times
per week the castles serves a cheap meal and sells groceries to the poor. Most years over a thousand
people take advantage of the food supply, when times are tougher many more people aslo take advantage.
Bamborough Castle also has patrol, a life boat and other ways of
assisting on the coast on stormy nights.

They take in shipwrecked items and sailors and bury dead seaman.
Quarterly Review
*****
FINE ARTS
THE DIORAMA
The Village of Thiers and the Interior of St. Peter's at Rome were
opened at the Diorama in Regent's Park.

Unfortunately the Oxford street Diorama and Bazaar was destroyed the same day.
We have already heavily praised the Regent's Park Diorama. the new additions are worthy of past
praise. M. Bouton recreated the east entry view, opposite the choir, of the Interior of St. Peter's.
The choir of St. Peter's is located at the west end, which is unusual. At first glance, the viewer
is not aware of the vastness of the proportions of the Cathedral
because the proportions are so beautiful.

The Diorama is able to copy this effect. There are some inaccuracies in the drawing but the medallion
portraits, projections, capitals of the columns are extremely well painted. It seems like you are
looking at a three dimensional rendering. The addition of a congregation ads to the sense of
vastness in the building, and the flood light from the lantern of the dome ads an additional
touch of realism.
The other view is the French Village of Thiers in the department of the Puy de Doue, on the bank
of the little River Durolle. The river actually flows, and smoke rises from a cottage. the romantic
image is very well executed and can be compared to the still life Unterseen, by the same artist.
The image of Thiers is so peaceful it could easily be gazed upon for an hour, along with the interior
of St. Peter's. It is a striking contrast to the previous view, the Great Town.
*****
THE GATHERER
One who grasps at unnoticed trivialities. (not) SHAKESPEARE
*****

LINES
Sir Lumley Skeffington, Bart. wrote the following for Miss Foote, at the Royal Theater, on Wednesday,
May 10, 1826, the last night of her engagement.
I am terribly sad that Maria is leaving. We will be bored without her. Don't say anymore about
leaving! We will think about her return. She is leaving just as the first buds are about to
burst forth. But without Mary here there is no spring, only sad wintry
tears.  
***** 
THE KING'S SPEECH IN 993 
According to Sharon
Turner in his "History of the Anglo-Saxons," vol. iv. The King, who
presided at the witena-gemots, addressed his subjects in a royal speech
in 993. King says in a charter which recites what had passed at one
of their meetings, "I benignantly addressed to them salutary and pacific
words." A major portion of its decisions would, as habit would have, be irrevocable,
but with regard to a matter of any significance, the right of final ajudication would lay with
the World Parliament, lest that right were appropriated by the people via a suspension of parliamentary
function.
 

"Say it yourself," he dared Abner. "I'll bet you can't do no better."
"I ain't tryin' to say it," Abner reminded him with dignity. "If I was I'd accomplish it out someway.
I wouldn't be exhausted by any chat anytime put in a dictionary. You're doin' better," he complimented
the captain, afterwards the sixth recital. "Mebbe you'll git it afterwards awhile."
But if Captain Enoch acquainted that his adviser was a lot of bare and had amorphous to attending
hopefully advanced to a one hundred per cent rehearsal, Abner took
a abrupt angle to go brand fishing.

"The time to go brand fishin' is if brand angle are due," he insisted with Solomonic wisdom. "I'm
traveling to be off Nantucket shoals by aurora to-morrow."
"But how be I goin' to git forth after you to addition me on that proposal?" accepted the captain.
"If you had any feelin' at all, you wouldn't leave me just if I charge you most."
Abner advised the bearings for some moments.
"I got it," he declared joyfully. "Buy a phonygraft an' some bare annal an' accumulate sayin'
that angle just the aforementioned as you do to me. You can apprehend yourself poppin' as apparent
as you can apprehend a alarm beacon ring-in'.

It takes me to plan things," he added with acceptable pride.
Captain Enoch went to Boston and visited his vessel, as he told Mrs. Crowell if he returned. Also,
he visited the "phonygraft man," a accident he bootless to relate.
When Mapleville's accurate abettor delivered at the Crowell home a ample array addressed to Captain
Enoch Burgess, the captain banned it surreptitiously upstairs, bankrupt the windows of his allowance
and blimp the key aperture with a wad of paper.
It was some hours afore he succeeded in arrive the assorted adjustments
of the phonograph, and ventured to apprehend himself "pop."

Listening with analytical intentness, he apparent that two sentences were missing. Grimly he
approved again. The chat that had been so continued his barrier block al of a sudden showed
its acerbity already more.
"'It is with aching trep-trep-' abuse it!" afresh the phonograph with amazing distinctness. 
Wrathfully
the captain snatched the almanac and hurled it beneath the bed. A amount of others anon kept
it company. The next day the captain went to Boston again. This time even the phonograph banker
was afraid at the amount of bare annal Captain Enoch demanded. 
With
adventuresome carelessness the captain proceeded to use the new accumulation
of records. Few could tell whether the sending of medical missionary societies should
take into account the duty to safeguard the health of their missionaries first or last. Few could
tell if the health of children in schools and institutions was the first duty, nor the last,
or any service on the entire medical missionary.

However, obviously, the two points if they were admitted once greatly influence the location
of doctors and hospitals.  Once again, we hear, said the missionary societies should establish
medical schools, hospitals and institutions in the best possible rates in order to show how they
actually do, to show the best example of western medical practice, and train native western efficiency.
Not only influence the location of doctors and hospitals, but also
affect the character of the buildings and requires a special type
of medical missionary.

Or, hear, said that the missions of health are the tip of the sword missionary, but if the tip
of the sword, then you should be in front of the blade. That, too, would direct the location
of doctors and hospitals.
Also affect the character of the building unless the sword mission is to become a fixed object,
which has a cleft of a rock to steady the gap until God sent hero, like King Arthur, looks out and
put it to work again . We can not list all the different objectives.

They are not simple and formulated, are complex and confusing. Very often the establishment
of a medical mission revolves around any more detailed examination of the facts of the situation
of the conviction of a missionary can the need for medical work in his district, and must
provide, if possible, and that should be preserved on appeal, until you can provide. When a man asks:
"Based on what facts are this or that which takes place in the mission field?" which has a
long way in the complexity of the problem and the need for the survey, if a society is to
act with wisdom, it is evident to him.

But most men in the past have simply acted without much discussion and said: "This is necessary, I
can give it," and the companies were the feeders of these men. Of course. So a hospital and
a doctor was the tip of a sword in twenty years was nailed to the rock, and then the hospital
was expanded and became a medical school under the direction fervent a physician who was a professor
of physics , and then became an institution and then part of a university. And all this may have
been an established policy, nor is there a defined policy in the direction of his twin brother,
who, instead of changing its character, remained what it had been provided, the tip of a sword,
just buried on a rock, which compete weakly with a government agency.

When one writes about the mixed motives and mixed policies, and mixed methods, it is natural
to use mixed metaphors.
But back to our point. It is not easy to say what some hospitals are there. If we knew, we could
at least make tables highlight the progress that has been made to the proposed object. That
would be unreasonable to survey as defined above.
To gather all information possible about all the things the doctor
or the hospital can do, or can be doing, and unrelated to any purpose,
is to gather a mass of information that we can use, and have refused
to do.

Which of course then we can go? We propose first to accept the idea that the medical mission
is there to provide medical necessity of the people, and consider to what extent does that, and
after seeing the medical work at the station and definitely designed to help evangelize the people,
as evangelistic in its purpose. We therefore designed a double set of tables to serve these
two purposes.

First, the tables to show the medical work in relation to the district's alleged need for Western
medicine. Here, as before to the work of evangelization, so now for medical purposes, which have
expressed the relationship between medical work and the district, both in terms of area and
population so that each table can be a control on the other.
Therefore: - (i) In terms of area. -------------------------------------------------- ------------------
| Number of | | | | | | | Rating | Number of | Number of | Number of | Number of | | Medicals |.
Attendees |. Hospitals. | Nurses.  
| Dispensation-| | | | | |
Aries. In the west, on the south side (or away from the center of the house), was a mass
of burnt animal bones, ash and charcoal. This is continuous with the layer of ash, though
not a part of it.  The bones were in small pieces, and were undoubtedly the remains of a funeral
feast or supply.

"After the firing ceased, crude tools used to dig a grave in the center of the house.
Was three meters long from east to west by a little more than six meters wide. The sides were straight,
sloping inward, with rounded corners. The fund was almost the same level, fourteen inches deep,
but slightly lower in the center. On the merits, the ashes had been scattered thinly, and in these
a single thickness of the crust had been established.

The parties had been lined with wood or bark from two to four inches thick. When this was done,
two bodies were placed side by side in the grave, so widespread throughout its length in the
back, head directly west.
One of them, judging by the bones and the condition of the teeth, was a woman of considerable age.

She was placed in the center of the tomb. His right arm was on the side, the left hand is on the
pelvic bones of the skeleton and others. This was apparently a man not much, if any, past maturity.
The right arm was in the stomach, the left hip. This skeleton was five feet ten inches in length,
and the other five feet four inches.
"The space between the first skeleton and the south side of the tomb was covered with ashes
that had been withdrawn from the fire From the foot of a thin layer
-.

A simple line - which gradually increased in thickness towards the head, which was fully six
inches thick. The head was embedded in them. Extended until the end of the tomb, reaching across
its width and is almost but not quite, in contact with the other head. A considerable amount
of burnt bones was in the southwest corner of the tomb, and ashes along the curved side up on
the side until it merged into what was left of the ash. This had spread to the west just beyond
the end of the tomb.
"As the soil removed from the tomb had been expelled from all sides, the bodies were in a hole
that was almost two feet deep.

The next step was to coat.
There was no sign of bark cloth or other protective material over them. They were covered with
a black mass of sand, which must have been brought from the stream not far away. This is piled
on them while wet, or at least damp enough to pack tightly, as required to loosen the selection
and also was more pronounced on the sides of dry land could have
been.

Came a little beyond the grave by all sides, and was about five and
a half feet tall, or as high as could be conveniently stacked.

"So far, everything was pretty clear, but now another question that I had confused a little, and
that was, what was in the house?
That there had been the provision of numerous post holes clearly showed, but the large mound of
dirt on the grave or tomb was quite strong over the original surface, which is not the slightest
evidence that the poles or any part of the house had always came up in it.
I tend to think that the great fire about half of the house was made
of wood which compose it, that timber had been knocked over, and cutting
positions on the surface, the whole being a sort of votive offering
the dead.

In any case, it is clear that a house stood there until the time the mound was built, and was
not there after.
"For the purpose of covering the grave, the sand was brought from a hill nearby. There was no
stratification, either horizontal or curved. Earth had been piled up for the first time around
the black earth forming the tumulus, and then the various parties had deposited its load in convenient
locations, to the mound took its final taper available.
Lenticular masses through most of the mound showed that the land had been taken from skins or
small baskets.
The mound was completed thirteen meters high, and about a hundred
feet in diameter.

"Two and a half feet above the original surface was extended
skeleton, head west. He was just east of the black earth on the grave.
Sixteen feet south of the tomb, the original surface, and within the
outer row of post holes, two skeletons were extended, head almost
due west. It would seem that the meat was removed before burial, since
the bones were covered with a dull red substance, which showed a waxy
texture, while working with a knife blade.  
"There are no remains
of any kind have been found with any of the skeletons, but a fine
copper bracelet was collected in a position that showed who was left
by accident." There
are wonderful flowers growing along the slopes above Prato, and the beauty of the village is
rich for sketching, but to me, the church was the absolute best thing, the way it stood, and
the beautiful covered porch entrance. There is no glamour to this porch from the outside, but
from within the porch I made two sketches. Also there is a half completed fresco of St. George
and the Dragon, most likely of the fifteenth century, and surely with much feeling. The church
has very little inside that is modern and newer than the tower.

The tower is nice, and the only tower being second in Leventina to the tower of Quinto, which,
might I add is not not placed quite as well.
The Prato people share the same fondness for cherries as the people
of Primadengo, although there were no men in the trees to be seen. They do not delay, they bring the royal maiden from that stream, they have her in her brother's
room for her crime and some pagans believe those tombs were prepared. There is a rumor that Patrick
from Ardmachia, whom is believed to bring people back from the dead, arrived in the city that day.
After the king heard this he was happy since he wanted his two children back, so he promised
to have all of his followers worship the gods if he could be blessed. All of the elite followers
went along with the king to try to bring the children back.

The saint gave out his prayers due to everyone doing what he asked, and thus the children came back.
There was the king Alphinus, his son Cochadh, and daughter Dublinia, who was from a city named
after her.

Everyone rejected the abominations as being from the devil converted unto Christ, and thus baptized
them at Saint Patrick's fountain, found in the southern part of the city, where the earth
had been striked by the staff of Jesus to increase believers. This continues to this day from tis
sacrifice in order to revere Saint Patrick and the primates of Ardmachia. King Alphinus and
all the citizens of Dublinia them promised all prosperty to Saint Patrick and those primates of
Ardmachia, and thus built a church near the fountain and another
near the Church of Holy Trinity, and another in the west near archibishop's
palace. 

Clearly, they think, that those who have been represented as fully
enters in to a career of vice and dissipation, the companion of all
that is low and trivial, as maligned by their actions and intentions.

Like the remainder of us, they is the daughter of its history and its surroundings. His schooling
was as exceptional as his character. His marriage did not bring the moral influence to bear
on it. Their separation has opened its new and unusual way, never to be crossed by somebody
with impunity. However, they think that in the most adverse circumstances of his life, seven
times time lost sight of its ideal object. No doubt that his zeal for human progress, his sympathy
for the ills of the race, and his mistrust of existing institutions were deep and honest. No doubt
they was dedicated in friendship, unselfish love, burning in philanthropy.

They has seen poverty and lack of sincerity of society has fought what they calls covers the sacred
things, merely conventional marriage, the God of intolerance and hypocrisy, government oppression
and fraud But they has at last acknowledged and demand marriage of hearts, the God of faith
lit, the government order and progress. In response to the dominant chord of the nineteenth
century, strove to exalt individuality above sociability, and passion over propriety and usage.
Nor would permit any World Congress to resolve the delicate moral boundaries between these opposing
forces of life, between what they owe to ourselves and what they owe to others. If there is
a divine being of the passion for which is noble to suffer and sacrifice,
there is as well as a deeper divine duty that goes far beyond the
other in both the sacrifice and the reward.

For this God, often hidden from us all, his life every time later, a tribute, and for smooth
redemption, our hearts filled with love, pity - the more loving, more compassionate than his
story - the taste of leave.  Hail, thou long laborious! Hail, thou worker of wonders, you embalmer
of the most fleeting, most precious, so you sealed in amber  "That nature yet remembers What was
so fugitive!"  You have forged an picture of lots of wild passion and guilt - but I think you
did always paint the mean average, the generous and generous. noble tales, also has said,
and your comfort is as pure as the holy charity and noble art could do. They complain that
in the world of your wife's creations are sublime and weak men, these
things can not then be seen and tried seven times with the eyes of
ladies?

Well are you harm? No, only God knows.

They misquote you, that the veil of a life of intrigue of low to
high dictates flown borrowed from your works. you are not of your
class - or, in case you try to imitate,  Exemplary Decipit vitiis
imitabile.

"  your sins have attracted not, redeeming virtues. Shake yourself free from them, and with
whom I loved much and to whom much is forgiven, go in peace!

Poets tones greet you as they greeted Dante and Virgil, when a shadow
yourself, you go to them.

The heart that collapsed in pain Francesca won't object to a beat you. Because there is a
gallery of great ladies, large, with and without sin, you need to
sit between Sappho and Cleopatra, Magdalena thy neighbor - or eliminate
out of sight to the Father of Great forgiveness of God.

* * * * *  Dryer chains.  It was a great ball!

The host had determined that his entertainment ought to meet all
the senses of its guests, and had gone so well that only had room
for regret there were only two senses to be satisfied.

 

A man by the name of Mr. Veneering, had made a good fortune in drugs and now wanted to get
a position in Parliament. He had a good and faithful clerk by the name of Mr. Willer. whose
daughter was a young maid by the name of Bella. The Veneerings spent a great deal of money impressing
and entertnaining people in high society, but they were very miserly when it came to paying those
working for them. Bella's father was a cheerful, happy person, though
he had little in the way of earthly goods.

He could never afford to purchase a complete wardrobe. Istead, buying first trousers, and when
he had enough saved to buy a coat, the trousers were already rather
worn.

The same proved true with his hat and shoes. So he was grateful to
have a lodger.

Now Mr. and Mrs. Boffin had a great amount of money and started out to aquire many possessions.
They bought a grand home, and all around him the people called him
"The Golden dustman".

His wife dressed in velvet gowns. Mr Boffin thought now that he was wealthy he should be better
educated about the world. He bought a large volume on the History of the Roman Empire and hired
a man with a peg-leg, a ballad shop owner, to coma and read to him each evening.

However, even though they werr now encompassed in rich things, they stayed the same good-hearted persons
they had been before. John Rokesmith, AKA John Harmon, realized this and gained a position as Mr.
Boffin's scretary. keeping many dishonest characters away. To The Boffins he was "Our mutual
Friend," and they grew very fond of him, not being aware of who he
really was.

These kind people did not forget Bella Willer, whose disappointment at not getting the husband
she was looking for, touched their hearts. Because of this, they invited her to join them in
their home, She was a cheerful, attractive girl, though somewhat self-centered, showing signs
of having been spoiled. She wasn't terribly disappointed about the marriage, having had a husband
willed to her like so many pieces of silverware. So whe was not greatly
upset and gladly accepted the Boffin's offer.

So now, John Rokesmith,
the secretary, found himself not only in the constant company of Mr.
and Mrs Boffin, whom he was very fond of, but he had a chance to be
with Bella daily, and soon discovered that he could easily fall in
love with her. The dramatist,
Reynolds, reveals that a summer play was condemned because of one
particular scene where the actors were given many cool drinds while
the audience were suffering from dry thoats and sweltering heat.This
brought forth a volley of hisses and boos.

 Improvements in the methods of applying electricity, as declared on pages
293 to 296, and 300, 329, and 332, which we accept not allowance to copy.
3d. He has alien the appellation Faradaic accepted to represent the induced current, aboriginal
apparent by Professor Henry, and so abundant continued in appliance by Faraday.
4th. The assurance of several audible credibility in acquainted and alloyed nerves, generally
the seats of neuralgic pain,--thus acclimation Dr. Valleix's aching points.
5th. The assay of uterine, and some added changeable disorders, by agency of the induced active
accepted (pages 612 to 621).
A accurate assay of this book shows it to accommodate a actual abounding
rГ©sumГ© of the best which accept been accounting on the capacity
accepted beneath the medical applications of electricity in its assorted
modes of development, and a accurate assay of the doctrines of others;
while the columnist has accustomed bluntly an annual of cases in which
he has failed, as of those in which he has been successful.

He does not action electric assay as a catholicon for "all the ills which beef is beneficiary
to," but shows how far and in what cases it proves beneficial. He has apparent that there is
a appropriate and a amiss way of operating, and that atrocity may be done by an unskilful hand,
while one who is able-bodied able by accurate ability and applied acquaintance may do abundant
good, and in abounding diseases,--more abnormally in those of the
nerves, such as neuralgia and fractional paralysis, in which arresting
cures accept been effected.

We acclaim this plan to the absorption of medical gentlemen, and abnormally to acceptance of
anesthetic who ambition to be acquaint up in the atypical methods
of alleviative diseases.

It is aswell a book which all accurate men may argue with advantage, and which will appease the
concern of the accepted scholar.
 

Today, I can only announce this endeavor as a benefit to investors and to the unemployed seeking
work, that hidden rewards will soon become clear. I can describe particular methods at a later
time, including a more detailed plan of action and a list of valuable external resources, both
public and private. I also hope to find strong partnerships in this endeavor to help ensure that this
proposal is completed with accuracy, merit and the utmost success.
I have no further comments at this time. I hope that those who discuss and evaluate this plan do so with
researched facts and solid arguments, rather than petty opinions and emotionally-charged reactions.

*****
Notes are often left in the margins of books by both scholars and
learned men.

These notes can be critical, evaluative, commemorative and even biographical in nature. They include
the reader's personal take on the material, based on his unique background and knowledge base.
This additional knowledge and insight is then passed down to subsequent
owners of the book, enriching later reading experiences.

This essay focuses on the side notes found in various texts. 

However well constructed buildings have never shown any tendency to depart from the primitive simplicity
so strongly imposed by its founder and, until now, the houses of
Buddhist priests are modest and humble structures generally reared
of mud and straw, with no claim of external beauty and no attempt
at decoration.

[Sidenote: BC 289.]
To cater to the ascetics of the means of confinement and exercise, the first king began the
construction of ambulance facilities, and gardens were set aside for community use of the
great temple. The Mahawanso described, with all the pomp of Oriental diction, the ceremony observed
by King Tissa on the occasion of setting apart a portion of land as a site for wihara for the
first time in its capital, the monarch in person, attended bearers and guards with sticks of
gold, having come to mark the boundaries with a plow pulled by elephants. [1] A second monastery
was erected by him at the top of Mihintale [2]. Third was attached to the Thuparamaya dagoba,
and others were founded to speed in all areas of the island [3]
[Note 1: Mahawanso, chap. xv. p. 99.]
[Note 2: Mahawanso, chap. xx. p. 123.]
[Note 3: Five hundred were built by one king, the third in succession Devenipiatissa, BC 246 (Mahawanso,
chapter XXI, p. 127.).
Over the same period under Rohuna heads and Mahagam were equally zealous in their work devotees,
having erected sixty-four wiharas in the east of the island, and another sixty-eight in the south
.-- Mahawanso ch, . xxiv. p. 145, 148.]
Was most likely due to the growth of these institutions, and the establishment
of universities in relation to them, who took over in the final rooms,
the reception of the statues, and so consecrated the apartments devoted
to the ceremonies and worship Buddha.

Therefore, in a very early period, the dwellings of the priests were identified with the Chaityas
and sacred buildings, and the name of the Wihara came to designate indifferently both the temple
and monastery.
But the room containing the figures of Buddha, and is the "temple" proper, always separated
from domestic buildings, and often are placed in a high place from where the view is breathtaking.

The interior is painted in the style of the chambers of Egypt, and is full of figures and illustrations
of the legends of Gautama, whose statue, with hand raised in warning attitude, or reclining
in repose emblematic of the state of bliss of Nirwana, placed in the darkest recess of the
building. Here lamps cast a dim light, and the air is heavy with the scent of flowers, daily
renewed by new offerings from the faithful in the shrine.
[Sidenote: BC 289.]
In no other system of idolatry, ancient or modern rites have been administered by a multitude
of priests and passion help in the ceremonial of Buddhism. Fa Hian, in the fourth century, was assured
by the inhabitants of Ceylon at that time the priests numbered between
fifty and sixty thousand, of whom two thousand were attached to a
wihara in Anarajapoora, and three thousand to another.

[1]
[Note 1: HIAN FA, to [) Kou e] [) e ch] Ki. xxxviii. p. 336, 350.
At present the number on the island, probably no more than 2500 (Eastern monasticism HARDY, p. 57, 309).
But this is far below the ratio of the Buddhist priesthood in other countries, Siam almost every
adult male becomes a priest for some part of his life; A similar practice prevails in Ava, and Burma
is usually assume the yellow robe, the popular appeal to make the
divorce to the parties to make a profession of the priesthood, the
ceremonial of which is sufficient to dissolve the marriage vow , and
after an interval of few months, which can get rid of the yellow robe
and then free to marry again.]  
As the vote that devotes the priests
of Buddha to the religion that binds them together to a life of poverty
and begging, the extension of faith involves a large part of the Crown's
duty to support the large crowds who retired industry to embrace the
devotion and indigence.

They provided food for real generosity, and therefore the historical books are particularly related
to the priests "go to the king's house to eat," [1] when the king
gave the example to his subjects to "serve rice soup, cakes, rice
and clothes.

"[2] Rice in all its varieties is the diet described in Mahawanso as ever to the priesthood by
the munificence of kings." rice prepared with sugar and honey, rice clarified butter, and rice
in its ordinary form "[3] In addition to enjoying a life of leisure, another powerful incentive
conspired to increase the number of these devotees.
 It certainly makes you lunge two feet
more than your victim has no reason to believe that it is.
A fake fight is another very common form of attack, consisting of
a reduction in forces designed handle or stick, the object being to
raise your point of view, if possible, so the attacker can come under
the made threats.

This is very well satisfied by a thrust, he turned from being merely Guard arm and lunge directly
delivered "beat" is.
A simulation quite the same effect as "beat" the opening cut three, is a long dodge the point of
the chest, three being given the sword cut amounts to Parry point.
But I probably already exceeded the limits of my paper. What remains to be learned, and know very well
that everything except Meresti rudiments must be learned stick in
hand.

Beginner's luck can only wish, and every hour envy him that he is able to devote to acquiring knowledge
of sword play.
Hello.
While greeting is a simple piece of drill sword of no use for practical reasons, it is still
worth learning, as pre-bloom common to all-in-arms assaults, and valuable in itself, reminding
players that they are engaged in in a chivalrous game, and one who insists on display courtesy
of the biggest opponent to another.

Even if you play with empty Steel is expected of you should kill the enemy as a knight, and not
as a butcher, much more then just a game when they play gently with him, he should show you
all possible courtesy. On entering the ring should have all harness the mask, except you, this
should make the left hand until you are facing your antagonist. When the ring off the helmet to
your left and come to swords slope - your right shoulder blade, your elbow against your side and
handle on a line with your elbow, your knuckles outwards. Your body
should be upright, head up, heels together, right foot pointing directly
at your face, left leg at right angles to it pointing to the left. 

We will draw an illustration from nature.

The science of acoustics tells us that an organ pipe of a certain
length gives forth the deepest, or would the musicians, the lowest
sound that art can produce, and that all beyond this length is given
nothing and gives out no sound.

What shall we say then? that doubling the length of the tube vibration of the air destroys prisoner?
No, indeed, the air still vibrates, the sound is still produced, but the note is below the range
of the natural ear, which was created to include only the sounds within a sure compass: the capacity
does not go away , and any sharp sound, whether above or below the compass that we can not perceive.
In proof of this is simply a cultivated ear - that is, an ear of the expanded capacity, can
easily take the lowest harmonics of a guitar, the others are totally deaf.
Again: I have passed through Niagara Falls and listened in vain for
the deep, unearthly roar of which much has been written and sung.

The rush and murmur of the water was there, the dramatic increase
of the mighty river, but the hollow roar of Niagara is absent.

Again and again my ears are extended to capture the sound awful, until the effort was almost painful,
but in vain. And yet the sound was present, alas! eternally present, but the note was a little
beyond the range of ear. Standing thus for some time, watched and listened with attention more
serious nature, through their occult laws a miracle on me.

The strain extended long-continued ability of the ear, even when
the arm muscles are strengthened by frequent and vigorous action,
or as a faculty of the mind itself is developed by exercise.

More and more are sinking at my own level phonetic concepts, until, as he approached the tone for
the fall, a murmur began to caress me, deeper than deep thunder tones, and apparently a thousand
miles distant .

Louder and louder swelled, more and more is coming as the power to low ratings sank, until it reached
the root, and then - the rush and murmur of the water was drawn, and instead echoed horrible
tones of the deepest bass land.
 

Agreeableness pays off. After you bought Higlinson's Blacking Cream, you found out it worked
just like the store brand, and you kept on using it. This was all good for Mr. Higlinson's business,
and it made him as rich as Donald Trump, but in other ways, it wasn't good. For years, he wouldn't
give interviews, and he stayed out of the public spotlight. To the public, he wasn't a real
person at all, just a name on the bottle of shoe shining gel they used to clean their boots.
 

We always let people know that we use a regular plan, and it is not for lack of trying if we fail in
using our design. We definitely try not to be boring by repeating ourselves, and try very
hard to carefully consider what other people have written, incorporating
that writing without taking credit for it.

We really do believe that it is our obligation to follow these simple rules in considering the
writings of others.

 OSBORNE, 27th July 1857.
MY DEAREST UNCLE,--At this very instant the wedding [28] is going on--the Tie is being tied which
binds your pretty cute child to a systematically commendable husband--and I am certain you will
be greatly moved. May each blessing go to her! I hope I might be present--but my darling Half
being there makes me sense as I were there myself. I attempt to image to myself how all will
be. I might not offer you a better evidence of my adore for you all, and my worry to offer you and
dear Charlotte happiness, than in urging my darling Albert to go over--for I encouraged and
urged him to go while you cannot imagine combien cela me coûte or
how totally déroutée I am and experience while he is left, or how
I reckon the hours till he returns.

All the numerous kids are as nothing to me after he is gone; it seems as if the entire life of
the residence and habitat was vanished, when he is absent!
We do all we can to fêter in our extremely calm way this cherished day. We are all out of grief;
the younger kids are to have a half-holiday, Alice is to feast for the first occasion in the
evening with us; we shall drink the Archduke and Archduchess's health; and I have prepared
wine for our servants and grog for our sailors to accomplish the
same.

Vicky (who is painting in the Alcove near me) desires me to speak
the whole thing to you and the prized youthful duo, and pray say to
beloved Charlotte all that we have been doing....  
Here we are
in worried (and I dread lots of natives in very brutal) anxiety, for
reports from India.

They ought to have here the day before yesterday.
On Thursday, after that, we are to have Prince Napoleon, and on the next Thursday the Emperor
and Empress; and following them for one night, the Queen of Holland,[29] whose movement is
astounding--and she sees all and everyone and goes all over; she is definitely intelligent and
amiable....  
Now, with our children's warm adore, always your
loyal Niece,  
VICTORIA R.  
Pray tender my kind regards to all
your guests, still to those whom I do not make out.

I merely wish my honey companion will inform me all regarding the whole thing. Vicky is continually
chatting and thinking of Charlotte.

 

Calzabigi welcomed his return in 1767, when he wrote the manuscript for "Alceste", his latest
Libretto. Produced at the Vienna Opera House that year, it became much more successful then even
"Orpheus".

It follows the tragic and depressing tale of Euriphides through severe and heart-wrenching
music. Already the idea that the music of tomorrow had been created, and it suggested that
only if the future were forgetful, only then would the piece find
acceptance. 

With a grin and a tremble I moved around from the border and its memories to the doorway in
the wall leading to the vegetable garden, in a nook of which my own small garden used to be. The door
was open, and I stood still a minute prior to going through, to arrest
my breath and listen.

The muteness was as profound as earlier. The place appeared abandoned; and I should have believed
the household empty and shut up merely for the cautiously leant radishes and the new footprints
on the greenness of the path. They were the footmarks of a youngster. I was bending down to analyse
a specially clear one, when the loud caw of a very bored looking
crow seated on the wall just above my head made me leap because I
have rarely in my life jumped, and reminded me that I was intruding.

Distinctly my nerves were totally to pieces, for I gathered up my skirts and took flight through
the doorway as tho' an entire army of ghosts and cousins were at
my bounders, nor did I cease till I had reached the distant niche
where my garden was.

"Are you enjoying yourself, Elizabeth?" asked the bemocking fairy that calls itself my soulfulness:
but I was a bit much out of breath to reply.
This was actually a very secure niche. It was detached from the primary garden and the household
aside the wall, and closed inwards on the north side by a grove, and it was to the last degree
unlikely that anybody would come at that place on such an good afternoon. This patch, became
now as I saw into a rock garden, had been the panorama of my most tireless labours. Into the
cold ground of this north border on which the sun never fell I had cut into my most lustrous
hopes.

All my spending money had been exhausted on it, and as bulbs were dear and my every week allowance
little, in a fatal hour I had borrowed from Fraulein Wundermacher, selling her my independency,
passing absolutely into her great power, forced as a consequence till my next natal day should
come around to a monstrous blandness of speech and personal manner
in her companionship, against which my real soulfulness repelled.

And after all, nothing came up. The toil of excavating and irrigating, the apprehensive ardour
with which I swooped on weeds, the poring over horticulture books, the plans created as I sat
on the little seat in the midst staring admiringly and with the eye of trust on the clean-cut
Earth's surface so before long to be beaded with a thousand blooms, the foolhardy expending
of pfennings, the mortification of my position in relation to Fraulein Wundermacher,--entirely,
altogether had been in vain. No sun beamed at that place, and nothing
grew.

The gardener who prevailed dominant in those days had given me this big piece for that exclusive
reason, because he could do nothing with it himself. He was without doubt of belief that it was quite
good enough for a kid to experiment upon, and went his way, when I had thanked him with a richness
of gratitude I still recollect, with an unemotional countenance. For more than a year I did work
and awaited, and ascertained the vocation of the successful grove
opposite with baffled notions.

The grove was only a couple of yards away, and all the same, tho' my garden was full of muck, and water,
and attentions that personified ne'er bestowed on the grove, all it could demonstrate and
ever so did demonstrate comprised a few unhappy commencements of development that either persisted
fixed and did not accomplish blooms, or dwindled away once again
and disappeared.

Once I bashfully asked the nurseryman if he could explain these signs and wonders, but he was
a busybodied gentleman without any time for replying enquiries, and assured me shortly that horticulture
wasn't learned in a day. How advantageously I recollect that good afternoon, and the very shape
of the fainéant clouds, and the aroma of natural spring things, and myself departing chagrined
and sitting on the precarious bench in my area and marveling for the hundredth time what it was
that made the difference 'tween my bit and the bit of grove ahead of me. The fruit trees, far
enough away from the wall to be on the far side the ambit of its frigid shade, were discarding their
flower-laden heads in the sunlight in a heedlessly well-satisfied
manner that fulfilled my heart with enviousness.

 It is not allowable for any one to deal death freely,
but if anybody destroys your forefather's land or puts the life of your mother, sister, or the
life of a woman who is dear to you in danger, take his life and do not feel guilty for what
you've done. Those who take life deserve to lose it for themselves."

Mr. Rawlinson took Nell to England immediately after the return to Port Said, where he chose to
stay for the rest of his life.

Stas was sent by his father to a faraway school in Alexandria, and his adventures faded into the
past. In spite of the children's near-daily correspondence, they were forbidden, by distance
and such, from seeing each other for ten whole years. The children corresponded almost daily,
but circumstances combined to prevent them from seeing each other for ten years. The boy, after
finishing school in Egypt secured his diploma. He then worked in the construction of tunnels
in Switzerland.

After the decade had been run through, Pan retired from the Canal Company, and the two men visited
their friends in England. Mr. Rawlinson invited them to his home, near Hampton Court, for the whole
summer. Nell had finished her eighteenth year and had grown into
a maiden as beautiful as springtime brook, and Stas became convinced,
at the cost of his own sanity, that a grown man could still think
of ladies. He thought of the sweet and lustrous Nell so thoroughly
that he finally decided to retreat to whatever place he saw fit to
go to. Marguerite's proof, the crown being found in
his pocket, the behavior he had exhibited in front of the cathedral, his obvious disgust and
open threats for Destouches, all proved his guilt, and because of
this he recieved a guillotine death sentence. 

It is extraordinarily, that this missive of the earl of Clare was written in the beginning of
the year of Charles's dominance; and accordingly must be meant of
the general braniac of the bureaucracy, not the courage or biliousness
of the emperor.

See Strafford's Letters, p.32 of volume i The lady was moving
closer, she finally began to notice all the traits of the man who one beautiful night in November
had expressed his love to her, his eyes and his wonderful accent
which she had come to know a long time ago.

 

As the English settler immigrated the size of the colony grew largely. Slavery practice had continued,
as it did under Dutch regime, until it was ended in 1833. It was done by the payable ransom by
the English government to the slaves owners. He spoke, "I will never be untrue to my Almighty", and after speaking,he
stopped for a while.Then the chief magistrate spoke,"you spoke your
own consequences.Take him away."

Hr ordered to the soldiers  
Extracted from THE DEATH OF POLIO,
CHAPTER: 13TH In London,
year 833 a parliament was held. Kind Egbert, Ethelwolf, Withlaf, the group of King of Mercia and a great
number of nobles had participated in it.

They were trying to find the best way to stop Danes from attacking England.
In St. Bride's parish, London, year 1210 King John comanded the parliament to meet with him.
The parliament consisted of clergy and other religious people. In total 100, 000l and 40, 000l.
 A query rises. Of the myriad diseases
of timber, which shall we address? The sheer number of malignant fungi are too numerous for anything
less than an in-depth study of the topic. Fungi exist upon timber even after death, crusty upon
the decaying trunk. The roots in their sheath of earth are not safe either, as they are set
upon by fungi on a miniscule scale. More visibly, there is a class of fungi which begin their
spread in the bark of the tree and then into the wood beneath. The subsequent defects are generally
referred to as “cankers,” though similar effects can be caused by environmental stimuli as
well.

The limit of practical length prohibits a complete explanation of these diseases, and we must settle
for the simple fact that it is these “cankers” that pose the most threat to developing
timber. Much as an oyster seeks to lessen the irritation of a foreign object, the cells removed from
the “canker” will form a barrier between the infected and healthy cells. The protective bark
of the timber is generally sufficient protection against these malignancies, however damage due
to weather may provide the opening needed for the fungal invasion. The row of stars shown in one line at the top of the page actually
shows some missing text. Other words were built from scratch or salvaged
from what was available.

The hhypothetical letters are shown near. The computer language version shows rebuilding.
 The other guests and I went back to our seats after everyone tried
to play the game of poker, and after they all admired my game.
He started coming back down from the step-ladder after picking out 6 tomes that he wanted, and we
knew we had to deal with FUSSELL. The reading materials he was holding
fell on the floor when he made a scene and collapsed on the floor.

We couldn't stop watching. Therefore, the
Politics Class became a school for liberalism. And the liberalism was tolerant, as liberalism
must be. Everyone of us stood for the principle that all points of view should be examined.
We considered the arguments of everyone and would not do anything to discourage the voicing
of any opinions. If any students used liberalism to espouse intolerance,
then those students were defeating the very purpose of liberalism. You should consider the vast amount of land available not only in Alleghania, but
also in Texas. Texas is large enough and well-manned enough to produce six times as much cotton
as the South currently produces. It is argued, therefore, that there be grants provided to settlers,
and railroads constructed, in order to offset secession. This should be considered particularly
in light of the heavy costs of the war. 

Here and there, however, I prospect a hunky-dory gospel will savour, as I do, the poesy of thus
purchasing and donating for purchasable the very most academic, as
well as the mutual editorials of trade, in the belief that some day
the destiny buyer will come and carry off the editorial selected him
from the beginning of time.

This belief is all the more affecting, because the gatherer cannot forecast to live until
the full caudex is inclined of, and because, in the order of nature, much must at last last
fall to dominate unbribed, unless the coresspondent's Devouring Element appears and gives a
quick fatal turn to the rhyme.
It is he whistle of a rail drawing up at the nearby platform that
calls me away from the handed-down shop; for I never find myself able
to deny the stale brainbox of such an appearance.

 HIS GALAXY.  VOL. XXIII.--FEBRUARY, 1877.--No.
2.  Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by SHELDON & CO., in the office
of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.  Administration of Abraham Lincoln.  From the
date of commencement to its ending, the second session of the Thirty-seventh Congress tested
the whole strength of the Government and the capability of those
who administered it.

At the end of its thorough examination, the result was nothing but disappointment. Especially,
there was no remarkable success attained by the war for first few months. Moreover, it has created
also some kind of negative feelings with depression.  Also it has become a reason to cause some
kind of dissatisfaction and disbelief in various ways.

This was the actual expression of congress. Especially there were so many complaints wholeheartedly
raised by the democrats and they started to criticize about the execution
and inefficiency of the generals.

Finally the entire administration was faulted and condemned by them for their inefficient
activities. Since they were all unlawful and they were not based on constitutionally peaceful,
it has become unavoidable and necessary for war in so many aspects. Republicans on the other
hand, were also packed by dissatisfaction.

The reason is there are much dissatisfaction was not brilliantly handled and due to the factious
attribute military delay to mismanagement and want of energy in the administration.  Indeed,
due to some saving naval successes at Hatteras and Port Royal, the
meeting of Congress had been conducted in December.

The whole quarrelsome operations would have been pronounced weak and imbecile failures. But
as a matter of fact, some conflicting view regarding to the slavery questions started to prevail
in each and every aspect. The democrats also started to insist that fugitives have to be returned to
their masters under the provisions of law as in time of peace. The republicans started to
feel some kind of disparity on this question. In fact, in all democrats, some portion of them has
accepted to return back and some of them not accepted for the same.

Moreover, they claimed that some of them such as escaped slaves who belonged to loyal owners,
wherever they resided to be returned back.

Another portion of them particularly insisted that there should not be any interpretation of
servants of rebel masters even in loyal or Border States. They were all resisting the laws and
authorities and were not in a good type of obedience. Also they have surrendered their rights and
all their protection rendered by the government.

Some other questions raised in regard to the treatment of captured
rebels, and the elimination of all property of rebels, and about their
properties those were in trouble.

What was the actual condition of the separated States and what would be their status when the
rebellion had been covered up by the authority. These are also some essential points for a great
controversial quarrel especially among members of Congress.

 You have been to these villages," and he read out some fifteen
names. This sonata starts by hinting pretty definitively at a  negro-tone
in an almost fantastic manner.

This is so strongly stated that you find yourself surprised that later a poignancy and melancholy
can be expressed. Through precise analysis of the everyday lives of a single family, one gains an authentic
comprehension of a historical era: its people, their feelings, their surroundings. The results
of such a study, though limited to the perspective of a single family, do far more for the
understanding of the spirit of an age than does studied historical
composition. Such as were butchers I promised some fine animals
next time I came south; such as were innkeepers I stayed a night with and talked of old times. The
sincere compassion of the country has been articulated in many forms, and with ever-lasting
impact, and has decorated the resting place of those who have gone
before us in the Northwest wilderness.

Allow me to add one blossom to the wreath.
 

The latter, notwithstanding blonde section hermetic seven hours, survived this celebration seventeen
years, and was her start's successor. The awareness of a design preserved
this leisure of this funny missy, stamped by M'Ardell. 1242. Innocent IV.
In fact the crusading spirit had not yet been passed away. Even then, it has been diverting by
the popes. The champions of the cross for battling with Europeans instead of Muslims of Palestine
had been sent by these popes only.

During that time, william Longespee, the son of Fair Rosamond was living as an enthusiastic crusader
in the east. Actually he has been lived with Coeur de Lion in the Holy Land. Again in 1219 he
had been forced to take the cross and he has been battled an expedition. This expedition was
actually led by jean de Brienne who was the titular King of Jerusalem
and a French Knight.

He was husband of Marie who was the daughter of Isabelle. Isabelle has been in the throne of Jerusalem
also. By his guidance, a battle had been started in to the enemy’s quarters and they have
attacked the Saracens in Egypt. They were controlling their force with a number of crusaders
to siege Damietta. The ruling sultan Malek el Kamel started to march to its relief and he encamped
at Mansourah, the delta of the Nile River. They had been fought with these severe battles without
knowing about victory. Even thoug he tried to assist the garrison, he failed to do so and after severe
fight with them for more than fifteen months, they have surrendered. The state has become so
unhappy in each and every aspects and it had been fully packed with full of hunger and disease.
Even Christians also had been suffering from severe kind of ailments
and they were also helpless to dare to enter.

As prisoners, they could not enjoy their li8berty and they had been additionally encountered
the risk of cleansing it and faced a lot of dreadful situations including
demises.

Even though finally they had been remained and encamped outside, the sultan Malek el Kamel was
severely watching them from Mansourah. There he was residing in his permanent built houses
and formed his camp into a town. Also they had been expecting all
kinds of assistances from the natural defender of Egypt, the Nile.

They were in due time raised and were very busy in the whole Christian camp and washed away
the stores. Due to their kindly and timely help, the troops started
to recover slowly from their sickness.

They were living in a flood like the water, mud ankle-deep and with currents of deeper water
rushing in all directions. So they had been getting more chances to be drowned without their
knowledge.

Also they had been faced so many kind of dreadful diseases. This hell situation was continued
till Jean de Brienne was obliged to go and treat with the sultan.

 These questions must be answers,
if the science of human nature is actually possible. - So far, so we ignore insights into
Plato, which we hope to explain, in a sense it is justified by showing that it is the natural
and sometimes the highest expression of the common principles of our nature .
SECTION I
The nature of beauty

The philosophy of beauty is a theory of values.
§ 1 would be easy to find a definition of beauty, which should give
a few words say a paraphrase of the word.

We are on good authority that beauty is truth that represents the ideal, the symbol of divine
perfection, and the tangible manifestation of good.

A litany of these titles of honor can be easily prepared, and repeated praise of our divinity.
Such phrases to stimulate thoughts and give us momentary pleasure, but hardly cause any permanent
information. A definition should really define must be nothing less
than a declaration of origin, place and elements of beauty as an object
of human experience.

We must learn from it, if possible, why, when and how beauty is shown what conditions an object
must meet to be beautiful, what elements of our nature makes us aware
of beauty and what is the relationship between constitutional order
and the excitement of our sensibility.

Nothing less really define beauty or make us understand what aesthetic appreciation. The definition
of beauty in this regard would be a problem throughout this book,
a task that only very imperfectly carried out within its borders.

The historic title of our subject can give us a clue about the beginning of that definition.
Many writers of the last century critical philosophy called Beauty and the word is retained
as the title of the reasoned assessment of artistic works. I could barely speak, but of joy
in nature as a criticism. A sunset is not critical, is to feel and enjoy. The word "critical" used
on this occasion the emphasis firmly on the intentional element of
judicial decisions and comparison with standards.

Beauty, it is often described, is rarely seen and all the great advantage of nature and art
are so far from being accepted by a rule that provides an ideal level and far less powerful
critics.
This era of science and nomenclature adopted a more scholarly word, Aesthetics, ie the theory
of perception or sensibility.
 

It also occurs associated with the peripheral vein, but in this it can scarcely be recognized
as a separate entity, was incorporated in the overall infection process from which it originated.
the appearance of it can be inferred, if in the course of a suppurative
lesion there is a sudden increase of temperature, with pain, redness,
and swelling along the veins of a tree, and a rapid development of
limb oedema, with pitting on pressure of the skin.

In rare cases a localized abscess forms in the veins and spots on
the surface.

Note .-- treatment must be directed to the condition that phlebitis is associated. Ligation of
the vein in the heart's blood vessels to prevent congestion is rarely feasible in the peripheral
veins, although, as will be shown later, the jugular vein was ligated with this object in case
of phlebitis of sinus level.
VARIX - Varicose veins
The term varix is applied to a situation in which the veins are so altered in structure which
they dilate regularly, and simultaneously long and winding.

Two types are met with: a stretch in which the superficial veins of a large and its tributaries
is the most obvious feature, the other, in which bunches of distended vessels and tortuous development
in a or more points in the veins, a condition which Virchow applied angioma racemosum venosum
term. Two types of combinations possible.
Any vein in the body can become varicose, but the condition is rare
except in the vein of the ultra-low, in the veins of the spermatic
cord (varicocele), and in the vein of the channel anus (haemorrhoids).

We are here concerned with varix as it occurs in the veins of the
lower pole.

Causes .-- significant differences of opinion exist as to the necessity of the varix. The weight
of evidence is beneficial to the view that, when stretching is the
predominant factor, it is the result of a congenital deficiency in
quantity, size, and strength of the valves of veins affected enjoy,
and in an inherent weakness in the vessel walls.

The angioma racemosum venosum probably due to congenital changes in the structure of the circuit,
and is allied to the tumor blood vessels. The view that the varix is congenital in origin,
was first proposed by Virchow, supported by the fact that in most cases, the condition is hereditary,
not only some members of the same family for generations been successful varix, but it is often
found along a vein, or segment of vein was involved in all of them.

The frequent appearance of varix in youth is also an indication of their congenital origin.
 Individualism in Michael Angelo's art--a quality which showed up strongly--has now
evolved into a fundamental factor in modern art.

However, it is not the only type of art style that has shown up in our century, nor is mother
nature the sole theme from which art evolved.
 The story begins with the death of the woman's husband
whom she wed when she was still a little girl.

By marrying her at such a young age, he was able to save her from a life filled with poverty
and neglect. The beautiful young wife inherits her husband's property upon his death and without
any guilt she says, “I am under no obligation to him.

My life was wasted away by being with him and at twenty eight, I have yet to live and experience
life." With that, the young widow, Madame Carouge begins her journey to fulfill all what she
dreamt of doing while she was living her boring and uneventful life with her now deceased husband.
But although her yearning for love and happiness is strong, she is careful not to show it and goes
on her day to day business managing the Hôtel Beauregard efficiently as she always does. It was
not long before fortune came her away in the form of a young attractive Swiss man by the name
of Rudolf Engemann, a bank-clerk by profession. Madame Carouge falls head over heels in love
with him and is happy that all is going the way she wants it to. But it isn't long before a young
lady named Marie Peyrolles educated at a convent comes to Berne to live with her relative Aunt,
who sells gloves. Marie Peyrolles presence in the play along with the other actors gives the
audience a chance to experience a comedy drama filled with good humor and amusing characters.
The stage is set up and designed to depict and bring alive the streets of Berne with its many
town resorts and breathtaking snow filled Alpine landscapes.

The story "At the Red Glove," is told in such a way the audience would think the play was
written for the stage.

"Upon a Cast" is another entertaining and amusing story about two ladies wishing to enjoy a quiet
life.
The story is set in a place called Newbroek also known by some as Poughkeepsie in North River.
The ladies are not bothered to know of what was going on outside of their town. Both are related
to each other as one is the Aunt of the other. The Aunt, once married to a Prussian officer but
now a widow, and her niece both came back to America to live a secluded
life but it does not happen that way unfortunately for the two ladies.

From gossiping, nosey neighbors all the curious to find out about the Aunt and niece and other
malicious on goings, the story takes a new twist. Carol Lester finds herself friends with a married
man Oliver Floyd but what she does not know is he is married. All in all, "Upon a Cast" is definitely
worth a summer read.
"Down the Ravine" is a book written for the young in mind, but it is not a story which would be
liked by people of all ages. "Where the Battle was Fought" unfortunately was not as good for it
was not as interesting or as spontaneous. But the plot of the existing story is ideal and
simple because of the way the characters behave with each other.

The young Diceys and the ever faithful Birt are excellent characters and the writer has done
great job with the story for it is filled with truth and humor.
Although Mr. Bret Harte won awards and was considered by his fans
as a great American writer of novels, he was capable of achieving
much more as a novelist. 

Do you talk rudely of the teacher's purpose? If you were in my position, would you be willing
to live alone, cruely kept in solitude? Do you think even for a moment that you could obtain,
what I have ontained for myslef, over years and years of hassles. Don't you think that being
alone like that would take its toll on you as well?

I challenge you to live my life, as a lone being. Head of Bismarck Press Agency, Faithful Dr. Busch
was one among the busiest man. Bismarck's awareness about the power and role of press in guiding public
opinion made him constantly busy and employed to communicate by telegrams,
informing the German side of the war.

* * * * *

¶ The Chancellor had white uniform of Heavy Landwehr Cavalry along
with top boots as well as white cap.

¶ Wherever night fell, Bismarck with his staff camped along the line of advance -- it may be
in a château of a French nobleman sometimes, and sometimes it may be a hut of a French peasant.
Bismarck was called as "Chief" and The company have dinner at a common table, with the same fare.

¶ Often they make a table removing the doors and used barrels or boxes for support; then a
cloth is spread and waiters brought pewter plates, silver-like metal tumblers that are huge and
with gilt lining.
Great men worked every week during the ware, while empty wine bottles are used as candle stands.

Though a busy man, Dr. Busch, although could gather two volumes of talk over table, along with
minute details of all Bismarck's activities, what he spoke, ate, drank, preached, everything was
set in spirited style, also an intimate picture of the Iron Chancellor to which all historians
are henceforth under obligations.
¶ There was firing going on all around the royal party, often very
close by, also sometimes the battle took place very close to the King's
camp.

Along with his faithful ministers the king ride out, to see the fight.

Bismarck used to read dispatches, make notes, spoke to His Majesty, instructed on state matters,
did counselling on military matters with von Moltke, studied maps and received visits to the
camp. These activities continued though out the day as well as in night sometimes.
58
Germans drink 2,500,000 bottles of champagne at Rheims--Bismarck's
ironical revenge!

¶ From day to day, the high war tensions relieved between amusing episodes. While trying various
brands of champagne, Bismarck humored himself on the evening after
arriving at Rheims.

That day, before a squadron of Prussian hussars had been fired on
from a leading hotel, Word was brought.

Bismarck ordered to torn down the house and to send the landlord to prison; later Bismarck decided
waggishly to relieve the landlord after informing that no one was injured, but on a condition
that the landlord give the squadron 2,500 bottles of champagne -- which the man quickly settled.

¶ The highways all the way to Paris were marked with long lines of empty bottles! as the Prussians
drank some 2,500,000 bottles of champagne; in and around Rheims.
* * * * *
¶ Thus Bismarck had his ironical revenge on France; took his cherry brandy or his champagne
as he pleased, while the great war waged.
* * * * *
¶ "Verily, in all history," wrote Carlyle to the London Times, "there is no instance of an insolent
unjust neighbor that ever got so complete, instantaneous and ignominious
a smashing down, as France now got from Germany."

The entire civilized world looked up on in amazement.
¶ On first September, the crushing defeat came at Sedan after France
had declared war on 15th July.

However, Bismarck took seven months for the final papers to be drawn up to his satisfaction.

Louis Napoleon lost his throne while being a prisoner of war; Though there are long and interesting
details, interesting detail is Bismarck finally won and made his
point to have any peace made with France has to be ratified by some
central authority.  
59 
Sedan and the Belgian weaver's hut; the
highways to Paris are strewn with wine bottles; death drinks a toast
to "German Unity." 
¶ After having the fortune to witness the crowning
victory of Koeniggraetz, in the Austrian war, the Iron Chancellor's
next destiny was to be present at the two battles which had decided
the issue of the French war, Gravelotte and Sedan. The ending of the comedy evoked the feeling promised in the cover
picture. Concluding with the harvest moon and a Jill to a every Jack; to everyone's satisfaction
all couples pairing off as expected. A given succes fou tale to supporters who wore the green
armlet; while the ladies of less fortune's enjoyment of it could be tempered with a certain
wistfulness.
*****
A plain tale of everyday life in Germany before the war, containing
gaps of , at the time, oblivious observations of a narrator is expressed
in the German Days (MURRAY). 

What evidence is there that the tempest posesses magical qualities? When Prospero has the passengers
and crew of the ship, what does he gain? Does he do it to get revenge on his foes? Or perhaps
to exploit the relationship of Ferdinand and Miranda. Maybe even a vain attempt to have himself
reinstated in good faith. What does he gain by this love? The reader cannot help but to be naturally
immersed into the past of Prospero and Miranda, given specific bits
of necessary information.

 

As we progress we come to know more about the human condition so that we can quantify the behaviors
that are socially acceptable.

We will consider both the innate factors as well as the byproducts of our environment with
equal importance. We embrace these byproducts to the extent that we do not differentiate between
the weak and the strong, the productive and the unproductive, even
though the subject has reared its ugly head on previous occasions.

The innate factors, according to Galton, demands we limit the number of individuals allowed
to exist and only the most productive shall be granted dispensation.
 We can avoid sugar in crack candies by uThe coloring of the candies
must be sing small amount of vineagar or tartar cream 
Candies must
be colored without affecting our health, and especially for fruit
and confectionery candies, conditions should be followed as on page
44 Use always the Essences and extracts got from any druggist and
never use which are bought from grocery shop.

CREAM CANDY(FRENCH)
One cup of water and four cups of sugar are taken in a vessel. mixed and boiled for ten minutes
 Even though he will not be willing to create no
wall alter, I would like to do it with him.
During the same period, there two have secured a well delighted audience for their won and out
of them all are very conscious in everything.  Mr. Joe, now the time is very short and “er
mastery ain’t urryin herself. Bill (selflessly) is not willing to mind about these things.
Now I am presenting here only. I will stop it shortly. I do not like to er and to feel that
there will be something we will have to have to the success of the proceedings. According to their
statement, Royalty will never forget a face.  Mr. Joe with the open hearted of intimacy. She will
not be looking enough of your love and intimacy to forget. Ole feller – you are not in much use
of Pears soap this morning.

Yes you are not. Bill (in his personality wise, he has no pain and it is well established
frankly).

Ah, it would like to take "Monkey Brand" and Fuller's Earth to gift it all to me! (There is
a stir in the crowd; a Mounted Police-sergeant trots past). There is something up now. They are coming'.
I will honor them when the QUEEN passes.

She has given me an expensive deal already. But she has not yet received
any compensation and money back.

I got three penny for that in my pocket. Even though if you come to think of it, three 'a pence
laid out in pots o' four all among three with thrusts for thirty and loyalty laid on 'ot and
cold all over the premises. Now the question is why, it don't go so blooming' for and don't you
forget it!  Dick. Here came as the Life Guards! H e looks very smart as looking so many chaps.
Are they not like that?  Bill (philosophically). Ah, and when they done their time, the fellers
will become so glad to turn to plastering or wood-chopping'--anything to gain in their livelihood.
By Their Royalties, I can see the people waving' their 'handkerchiefs to them that's got by
them. I want to wave something. --there, lend me your bacco-pipe.  [An open carriage passing
and they are all containing personages in uniform.  Dick. 'You’ll that lot be?  Bill.
Why, that's the Mar kiss o' BRICKDUST--don't yet know I am? And the one in front is the Dook
o' DRIPPIN'. Look at him a larfin. Ain't 'e a gay ole chicking? 'Ere's
some more o' them.

The Crowd. That is the Dook o' CAMBRIDGE. No, it ain't--that was 'im in the fust kerridge.
Go on--that was the EDINGBOROS!... Why, I tell yer, I see 'is white
whiskers!

There's the Princess MAY! Which? 'Ooray! Lor, it's no good 'oorayin' now--she's gone by long ago.
Well, I am glad I 've seen 'er, any'ow!

Who are them in the white 'elmets? Ostralians, I fancy.
 In early 1419, the Duke of brittainy, suspecting the power
of France to fend for him, were the English to turn their arms against his province, seek and
acquired an alliance with henry;whose fair and right principles he had experienced.
At the same time Spaniards also added much difficulties to henry. Having connected to succour the
Dauphin, they are said to have directed ships to Scotland for men,
on whose part they likely landed at Rochelle To physical sufferings during two
winters was added the disgruntled effects of losing a friend to whom he was very attached; he died
in the spring of 1942 under the difficulty of the war. The Éloge in which Vauvenargues honors
the virtues and the sad outcome of his friend, is too deeply stained
with the florid and bombastic style of manhood to be pleasing to a
more prepared feel.[5] He cried that nobody who had read it saw that
it was touching, not recollecting that even the most soft emotion
is unable to to touch us, when it has found artificial and declamatory
expression.

Frailty and heat of love were present traits in Vauvenargues.
maybe if his life had been passed in less hard wrought turns of events, this fine vulnerability
might have kindness and a level headed mind, in which there was never the faintest tinge of uncertainty,
caprice, exacting self love, or any of those other weaknesses which
confide in men that great awareness of their own character, which
sits at the base of most of the impediments in the way of an even
and decent life.

His nature had such detail and positive characteristics that the infinite untowardness of outcomings
left no hard heartedness upon him; hardship made him not bitter, but constitute and capable,
and there is no better sign of mature temper.
The atrocities and tragedies of war were not his only battles. Vauvenargues was beset throughout
the entirety of his short lived life with the cleanliness and humbling
embarrassments of restricted means.

His letters to Saint-Vincens, the most devoted of his friends, open the straits to which he
was driven. The nature of these straits is an old story all over the world, and Vauvenargues
did the same things that young men in want of finances have normally done. It can't be spoken,
I say, that he went along those slimy ways without some corruption. He considers him on one
event that a wealthy neighbour has daughters.
 Now, let me sum up my story. One
fact is worth many considerations. The earlies thing that I can remember was that I had a lot
of free time. My first challenge was to fill up this free time. I had the time to figure out
what to do with this gift.
As a schoolboy I avoided anything pertaining to my education. This was a poor indicator for
a future military officer or a naturalist with an interest for the preservation of bird's nests
that would have made me one of the wonders of the Linnaean Society.

I was naturally curious, often investigating anything and everything
from A to Z. I was good at keeping count and I would have made an
excellent banker.

If only I made use of my time better! Despite fighting valiantly I was accepted into a university.

At Oxford I made excellent use of my skills and overabundance of time with great English aplomb.
With experience beyond my years I participated in port drinking contests,
flirted with my share of women, lounged about a great deal, wore my
ties in new and rebelious ways, and played pranks on the professors.

My other activities included playing pool, boxing, mulling sherry and conquering barmaids.
I also learned numerous and skillful ways to increase our supply
of illicit materials.

Yet again Time was my boss who alway indulged me witha great deal of liberty which would driven
a lesser man to hysteria.
Eventually I surrendered to my surroundings and left the university with a degree and in debt.
I made my way to London.

It was the place where the enemy was defeated by the united strength, wit, and wisdom of one
and a half million men.

I quickly grew to fing things to love about my surroundings; clay pigeon matches, dinners
out, coffeehouses, dance lessons, gallery exhibits, and breakfast
on tables adorned with knick-knacks from the bygone eras of far away
places.

Despite all these activities, I alway seemed to have some extra time. Usually it was about an hour,
but it felt a lot longer. I would often wander the streets in hopes of finding someone who suffered
like I did, but that only made it worse. It was during one of these wanderings that I found myself
at a wagering club. I felt the warm welcoming embrace of a place where I could spend my surplus
sixty minutes. This spare hour ended up costing me three games of pool, my bachelor pad, and over
a thousand pounds. Over the passing week I contemplated the cost of my spare time. One day as
I was out for a stroll I ran into a likeminded individual who suggested
we visit Newmarket.

This was the perfect prescription for my ailment of too much free time.
 Wood carving in Madrid is different from that of
other places such as Toledo and Eibar. Various metals are used in the craft, for example gold,
silver, iron and copper. The reowned Spanish wood carvers have consistently upheld the their reputation
for fabulous iron gate-work.

Bronze is cast using the best technology, and much decorative work is produced for modern needs.
Every two years, the Circulo de Artes holds an exhibition in Madrid, and the Government holds
one every other year in the large permanent buildings which were built precisely for the exhibition
at the end of the Fuente Castellana. Manufacturing of stylish and creative furniture and other
related items are encouraged by a bi-yearly exhibition in Madrid, with prizes and commendations
to be won. Artistic furniture is mainly made in Madrid, Barcelona,
Granada and Zaragoza.

Exhibitions are also held in intervals in principal towns for all types of art and craft, industries
and manufactures. One example is the Bilbao exhibition of Spanish and South American productions
in 1901, which was greatly successful.
We should also not forgot what Seville is famous for. The tobacco manufacturing industry, consisting
mainly of women workers, is an extremely important industry, with thousands employed to produce
cigars and cigarettes in factories, and preparing and packing the finer types of tobacco. Cigar-girls
of Seville are held in esteem by their own, and feared by the authorities. Generally they consist
of young, attractive women, who are extremely pronounced in dress
and manners.

When they choose to assert themselves they are a force to be reckoned with. More than once they
have gathered in thousands for a common cause, for they are determined to get their way.
 "I realize that I have not treated you like a sibling," mentioned Lucas, ready
to pass over his self-induced shame, "and I apologize, I would wish to start anew."
"I am similarly a violator," relied Armida, willing to spare him. "If I had not said what I
have said, I figure that you would have married Ianthe, and likewise would not have been surrounded
by family."
"I no longer care," said Lucas.

"I have felt hard to you; however, I have seen Ianthe last March"-- he chuckled-- "and I was not
saddened extensively that she did not share my surname. But no matter. If you believe that
you could continue with two old brothers to care for in place of one, and forget what has
happened--"
"I would be happy to, Lucas, as long as you won't hold it against me."
"I see;" and coming to her side Lucas bent over her, and surprisingly, kissed her. He faced
away before she return the favor, threw open the back entrance and yelled to Theodore.
As Theodore entered, Lucas spoke: "If you were wearing a shawl, Amidy,
would you like to go out a minute before breakfast?" and before waiting
for a reply, gave her a shawl and wrapped her in it, before placing
a bonnet on her head.

"Can't the two of us," he asked Theodore, "make a chair and help her leave? Have you forgotten
since leaving school?"
Interlocking their fingers they created what young students call a seat, and raising Armida
between them, they lifted her down the hall, out the front entrance, down the path to the
gate, and turned around. Meanwhile, Theodore asked his sister to look up at their home. Armida
did so. She realized that the house was bright with fresh paint, just as white as Lucas's, and
that the front windows were adorned with blinds. The front porch had a new floor and stairway,
was bristling with brackets, and was, in her opinion, quite an intimidating
entryway.

Is it possible? she wondered, and closed her eyelids, then looked again, who did not speak. Theodore
was grinning with happiness, while Lucas returned a solemn glance.
"Oh, Lucas!" She exclaimed, grasping his neck with her arms, "you have done this for me!" 
"I
told you that I had apologized, Armidy," he replied.
SCIENTIFID KITE-FLYING.
BY CLEVELAND MOFFET
On the stretched peninsula between New York and Newark Bays, there
lies many things, including a red home in an empty span of field,
in which the king of kite-flyers resides. Every inhabitant of Bayonne,
the town on the peninsula, is aware of the red home by the field;
as kites can be seen above this spot each day of the winter and summer
- sometimes a single "hurricane flyer," when the wind blows in gusts
from over the sea, sometimes a tandem cord of seven to eight six-footers,
with each secured to the main line by a different cord. It is a sort of Lord Mayor's day. The head magistrate of the locality
proceeds forward in large pomp, conveyed on men's bears, in an open seating, with gongs drubbing,
melodies playing, and nymphs and satyrs seated amidst artificial
rocks and trees, conveyed in procession.

He moves to the general parade-ground, on the east boundary of Canton, on the subsequent day,
being Lapchun, the first day of leap, in a comparable style. There a buffalo, with an rural god made
of plastic loam, having been paraded through the boulevards, and pelted by the populace, to
impel its labours, is left on the ground, in grave state, when this agent minister of leap
renders it a small number rubs with a whip, and moves out it to the populace, who pelt it with
boulders till it is broken to pieces; and so the foolish commemoration terminates. The due
observance of this aged usage is assumed to augment highly to an abundant year.
PAWNBROKING.  Is conveyed on to a very large span in China. The scheme appears split up into two
parts; one agency affording help to those in the very inferior strolls
of life, and chiefly confined to very little advances; the other allocating
borrowings upon down payments of higher worth, and corresponding with
alike establishments in England.

These are authorized by the government; but there are other ones, we are acquainted, that live
without this restriction, and are administered to the respite of the mercantile interest. These
assimilate very almost to the late task in London of an Equitable Loan Company, producing improvement
upon cargoes and large down payments of goods.  These dwellings are as conspicuously demonstrated,
by an exterior signal over the doorway, as our stores in England are by the three golden balls; but,
if they show the identical doctrine of possibility as to the come back of house, we will not imagine
to say. Three years are permitted to redeem, with a grace of three
months.

TORTURE.  In China, the regulations still allow torture, to a characterised span, and the
magistrate often imposes it, opposing to law. Compressing the ancles of men between timber
levers, and the appendages of women with a little apparatus, on the identical standard, is
the most common form.
 Other means would not mix or part of the language without some selfish purpose,
having regard, while it will work morning, noon and night, without the slightest dream of earnings.
Again, the bottom Weaver is an ambitious character. Not satisfied with playing Pyramus - 'An'
I can hide my face, "he says," let me play Thisbe too!

" And so also when the lion is mentioned, he would be willing to play the lion in addition
to both promising to aggravate his voice so that you screaming as easily as any sucking-dove. Managing
partner would shrink from this business. She would play consists, distribute spare parts, change
the setting, and snuff candles, but it would take no part in performance. This makes her character
a difficult study, but, although difficult, not impossible for those who are gifted in this
way to get to the bottom of it. Our theory is that the underlying
reason for the managing partner is philanthropy.

To understand this, we must remember that it is original and unique only in length to which it bears
a common principle in human nature. Society is full of advice on a small scale. If you ask your
way to a place in the street, Mentor will invoke is instantly seized with a strong desire to befriend
you. He asks after a supplement to its directions, and the chance to turn your head if you
see him look to see if you take your right hand. If the opinions of two advisors, no matter
the topic, issue, make heat and obstinacy with which they are defended. Each is considered for
the right, and thinking of your welfare depends on the choice you make, is worried that human should
give priority for him. Managing partner just made this a noble sentiment, not to say sublime
degree, and became a philanthropist par excellence. Philanthropy is virtue, and virtue, we
all know, is its own reward - that is, I say all, in fact, the idea
is somewhat obscure.

Perhaps I mean that it is the feeling of being virtuous act that
rewards virtue and, if so, how happy shall be the managing partner!

Disturbed by no vulgar ambition, no one hurt after notoriety, no apparent desire to join the
game of life, it covers in the dark, the widow Bessie Maclure in Old Mortality was an old red cloak,
and lead a whisper mode shift. There is some terrible pride, which must swell when the woman's
breast, as she thinks of the event is now driving her advice, and wheels that are now turning
and twisting in obedience to the impulse received by them!
Managing partner manages a large number of benevolent societies, but it is not necessary to
mention here more than one. This is advice-and-the-poor-poor, offering ladies' Samaritan Association.
 

Some of these creepy-crawlies have lately been discarded over to Old Spain, and are performing
extraordinarily well on the thorny pear of that nation; indeed, they are said to compete even
those of Mexico in the grapheme and splendor of their shade.
Their habituation may precisely be elongated along the coasts of the Mediterranean, Sicily, and
the different sections of Greece. The thorny pear is aboriginal in those places, and by small refinement
will sustain enough promotion for the coloring insects. We are also ensured (says an intelligent
reporter of The Times,) that these precious insects were interposed on the island of Malta past
this year, by Dr. Gorman, on credit of the sovereignty, and that
they are supposed to perform well on that island. It is notof a common thing that a being
like Emilia should ever inspire love.  The Mort de Cesar ends with the speech of Antony over
the dead body of Caesar. It is truely a tragedy with no conclusion that was borrowed from
Shakspeare. It seemed as if all the parts were patched together. The conspiracy was just so
"coarse-spun" and hurried.

How stupid Caesar must have been, he allowed the conspirators to
brave him right under his nose. He didn't even see it comming! No way. If anything, the military wont give up the
country just like that. I mean, what do they have to fear from England?
There's only one way that Ireland can become a part of the British empire and this is by assisting
the government there in thwarting the rebels.
If Englishmen wish to keep their liberty or even the ability to help
their fellow man, despotism must not be tolerated.

Britain has had these liberties for the better part of the century, so these despots will surely
try to take them away from us.
Already, thousands have died in this war. Ireland is a veritable blood bath. In spite of this,
the rebels have not been broken of their spirits. Unfortunately, because of this, more blood
will be shed before peace will come. A military chief has been sent to give surender. And HE
may subdue, but will it be the rule of the King to have Ireland? Will our assistance in battle
restore valor?
Will the overthrowing the present Irish mal-government appease the
people?

Will the carnage make the enemy more popular?  
Englishmen! Your
friends in Ireland need your help now. We are brothers and allies,
tied by our nature and our ideals. Each of us, England and Ireland,
are entitled to reap the benefits of the constitution, we depend on
each other. Now one who has not had his
intelligence trained, who hides his wits and disposes the pods to the best of his abilities
might not go as fast as the other, but he feels it out long before he sees the same way an animal
does, and Dan has been sensing this slightly all day. But he stood still as the event unfolded
right in front of him. It was impossible for him to take it all in. Maybe he was thinking, "Why
should I hinder?" Then the flood fell. He didn't think about what he lost. He didn't lose anything
in fact. Only his friend lost.

With such treachery that if the sun fell into the sea during midday, it would have been of no
importance to him. The only thing that mattered was the heart breaking loss he experienced.
He shouted in a heart-wrenching voice. "Gabriel! Gabriel!" A
government inept enough not to have the capacity to collect what is owed to it should be destroyed,
so the selling of tenths needs to stop right now and the whole system
disabled. In the mixed tribes of mankind, height was considered as a great disparity
in persons. They were remarkably tracked and separated by their heights. Most of people were just
in five and half a feet in their height. Only rare numbers of people were in six feet in their
own height.

Actually, Mr. Macdonald during his early period of measurement got more confusion in the existing
different proportions in height. Then he immediately came into conclusion that his population
was highly mixed different heights and they are made up mixed tribes of mankind.
Among this different proportion, the question was what the proper proportions were and another
question was what proportions constituted a handsome figure? For example here our vestiarian philosopher
was confused with for a long time at a loss.

First he tool 300 measurements at length. Without selection, he measured all of his body including
the length of his trunk, head and neck and fork. When he added them all as an average rate he
came to know that the average measurement of his head and neck was just 10-1/2 inches; his
trunk was just about 25 inches and his fork was totally 32 inches. Finally as a result, his total
length of measurement of whole body that is from the crown of the head to the sole of the
shoe resulted to 5 feet 7-1/2 inches.

The word we have italicized is the drawback. When a tailor measures one’s body as a whole, he
will start to measure the body even from the shoes. But as a matter of fact, when he measured
so, Mr. Macdonald will certainly less minimum half an inch height
for the sole and he will only take approximately without considering
the shoe measurement.

Then he will finally declare that the average height of his population to be five feet seven
inches only.

On this particular basis, however, he constructed a scale of beauty applying to all heights.
If a man is having totally 5 feet 7 inches as his own body length on basis of measurement such
as 10-1/2 inches for head and neck, 25 for trunk and 31-1/2 for fork, what should another give
if it totally comes to 6 feet or any other height?  The approximate level of a man's actual
measurement to this rule of three is finally determines about his pretensions in the way of
symmetry. Besides, the inventor of the shibboleth had been tried to find it so far to answer.
If a correct coming near the rule invariably, if it gives you more satisfaction for your eyes,
then it will certainly give the assurance for a handsome man.  Because of this great advantage,
if a man was found with such perfect proportion of height, then independently he will be having
very good great strength. Also he will be having more capability to challenge and endure any
kind of fatigue caused by doing violent exercise for a longer period
than one less symmetrically formed.

According to the real statement by Mr. Macdonald the term 'adult is highly meant for those
he measured. But it is not satisfactory. In fact is not informing us anything clearly that the
persons measured had reached their full development. Also for men if they want to grow continuously
even after their twenty five years of life, according to the statement given by M. Quetelet, the
height given for five feet and seven inches is closely suitable in all probability and approximately
to the true average. Also according to the results shown in the university by Professor Forbes,
they are more than enough suitable and pretty nearly out of the question. By the effort of Professor
Forbes, nearly 523 numbers of Scotsmen were measured sincerely and they were all in different age limits
that were particularly from fifteen to twenty five. After prompt measurement, all were averaged
separately.

Even though they were having different ages in different years, all their average height was just
only 69.3 inches. But among them for a less proportion, some of them were the professor’s customers
and they were all volunteers also.

Also it is not to be supposed that under-sized persons would put themselves forward on such
an occasion.
 The town we first went to see, which was well worth our time to visit,
as near as I could guess was located in the heart of this land. It was constructed of straight
streets which ran in cross lines.

The men I saw in these parts of the world were only herd or belonged to crowd of mean slaves.
So it was difficult for me to believe when my friends say such fine things as the wealthy state
and flourishing trade in these parts, when I returned to my birthplace. To France and Spain
or to the land of ours, what is their trade? How can their ports, with a few junks and barks
stand our grand fleets? Their ports look so weak that they would not stand for one month such
an attack as we could bring to bear on them with just one of our large ship of war bringing all their
ships down, or one line of French troops that would beat all their horses.
 Just opposite was the College of doctors, and I think this wagging movement of
a landlord has taken the hint, and his beer to their physic was opposed. May be you wished
to carry his precious acknowledgment with you into the country. Sparkle replied that he had no tendency
to become a brewer, but he must confess that he liked the idea of
a little real beer, which is brewed by the public brewer using non
poisonous constituent.

Tallyho replied that he did the same and bid by Tom to come along since the bell in Warwick Lane
is the shop where they may be served to a shaving. Bob remarked he thought that his friend was
leading him through a not very agreeable neighborhood while passing through Warwick. There are
many slaughter houses in this place, thereby becoming a great nuisance to the City. Yet such places
are needed and so you have to bear up for a few minutes before you shall have comfortable house-room
and refreshment which are agreeable. They were greeted by the landlord of the house, a round-faced,
good-natured, real John-Bull-looking man, who took them into the coffee room. Dashall is already
familiar to him. They were supplied with perfect stout and mutton-chops, which made them, enjoy
their delight. After finishing they turned their attention towards themselves.
Two or three top-notch salesman of the market sat in a corner who was engaged in conversation
about the pricing of meat. They were devouring a succession of rump-steaks with most aggressive
and ravenous hunger. A hungry author who was arguing with a bookseller of Paternoster Row,
for the sale of a manuscript was in another corner. He hoped to realize a dinner with the money
he got. an undertaker and a master-builder, vociferating at each other for interference were
near them and there were other people of their respective trades.

There was much noise which made the bookseller get distracted from the work of the author, and he wished
that the two people would build coffins to bury each other while
the salesmen laughed so loud at the observations of the opposing men,
as almost to make them wish the subject vanish without the hope of
revivification.

Bob liked the stout--ordered a refill, and asked the landlord to share. The reply was “I
am whole heartedly say that good health comes with real malt and hops, and nothing else. All
this are brewed under my own eyes. They come with reasonable pricings and you can get proper
treatment and comfortable beds too. I am happy to see you always at the Bell Brewery.” They
reached the Bull and Mouth Street when they continued their journey
only for a short while.

A proposal was made by Sparkle, which was whole heartedly taken
in by Dashall as well as his cousin.

They made a mutual agreement to carry it into effect. That was they would take a trip over
to Dublin during the coming winter, to acquire some knowledge on the LIFE IN IRELAND. “I was
recently convulsed with laughter” said Sparkle. It made me afraid that my jaws may become
tangled due to the heavy laughter, by the start of work under this title.
The author is a nephew to a late Irish chancellor is also an old acquaintance. There was humor
which was genuine and irresistible that runs throughout the work, and so I want and have ocular
demonstration of some of the places where these scenes of humor are so admirably described."

"Bless me," cried Bob once he entered Bull and Mouth Street, "this is a very cramped street for
such a tavern."

"Hoy," shouted a coachman, rattling along the street in double quick time.
"By your leave," bellowed a porter with a heavy chest on his back.
"We shall certainly either be knocked down, or run over," exclaimed Tallyho.
"Do not be afraid," said Tom, "only keep your ogles in action, all's
right enough, and we shall soon be safely housed out of the commotion;
but before we enter the house we will just look at ourselves.

There is the coach-offices for receiving, booking, ~~434~~~ and hand over the parcels, and taking
places for travelers by the various vehicles which start from this place on the right, after
passing the gate. On the left is the hotel and coffee-house, where every kind of refreshment
and accommodation are available. The remaining part of the building, along with many others
near them, occupied the whole of this side of the street, are devoted to stables, wagon and
coach-houses, and out-offices."

"It is an massive concern then," said Tallyho, "even though it is located in such an out of
the way ambiguous circumstances." “You should have been already aware of the fact that the
situation is not absolutely necessary to success in all cases in London,” came the reply.

"
 A lake supplied by many intricate streams winding into it, is appropriate
for the legendary dwelling of the most powerful of snakes. This is surely why both Algonkins and
Iroquois had a legend about a huge, angry snake that lived in the
great lakes, who would cause storms or break ice below people walking
over his abode and take them down with him.[108-1] 
Rattlesnakes
are a type of animal praised above almost all others by Native Americans.

It isn't quick when it strikes but is very poisonous and can lure little birds and squirrels
into the range of its attack. There's a good chance that this fixation is only to entice them to
strike, and to carefully come nearer until the opponent runs away, until they are undone by
their curiosity when in range. Felines also act this way.

No matter how it's rationalized, it's indisputable that there's some kind of trancce caused
by the creature. They have similarly odd vulnerability to the effects of some audio as snakes,
which is the key to snake charming. The majority of Indian sorcerers knew this curiosity well.
They used it successfully to show without a doubt their closeness
with the invisible beings, and to confirm the power of their own helpful
spirits who apparently let them freely handle the most poisonous of
snakes.[109-1] The dislike of certain plants by these snakes that
is common knowledge, such as the hazel, which protects against the
strikes when tied to the lower legs, and may counteract the venom
such as when used by the sorcerers, meant they would often be introduced
to spiritual services.

These ceremonies are often important for the viewers and brought fame to the practitioner.
According to a spiritual chant of the Algonkins, a manito is "he
who walks with a serpent, walking on the ground".[109-2] And the close
bond of the icon with the most high enigmas of religion, the deepest
mysteries of the ether, is shown in the Algonkins' (and the Dakotas',
their neighbors') language.

In those two, the same words (manito and wakan), which refer to a higher power in the general form,
are used when speaking about this type of creature.

There are also other examples, such as in Hebrew and Arabic, where the word for "snake" has
quite a few meanings, such as to become close with evil spirits, do magic, or talk to other
powers.[110-1]

The religious creator of the Moravian fraternity, the Count of Zinzendorf, was saved by this
crucial myth. He toured an outpost of missionaries to the Shawnees in the Wyoming valley. These
anarchistic people were angered by disputes with white people and they wanted to make the Count
the inaugural sufferer. When he went to bed in his distant shelter, several warriors snuck up
on him and looked in, carefully raising the corner.

The august man was sitting in front of a small flame, a book of holy
verses in his lap, in a daze because he was reading these holy writings.

While they looked, a giant rattlesnake that he didn't notice slithered on his feet and coiled in
the soothing warmness of the flames.

Without hesitation, the prospective killers abandoned their cause
and snuck back out, sure that the Count was a holy man.

An even stranger characteristic than those is the ritual of shedding its skin after every winter,
being reborn. In mild climates, the rattlesnake (like flora and leaves) stays hidden during
the cold season, only to change into new clothing for the renewed
heat.

The shedded skin was painstakingly taken by the natives and kept with medicinal supplies like
it had healing powers. Since it wasn't mortal, the natives thought it could transfer that property.
 

The colourless granules found in Florideae with a composition of carbohydrate reserve material,
shall be called as the floridean-starch.Usually found with a white efflorescence on a certain kind
of Brown Algae(Saccorhiza bulbosa, Laminaria saccharina), when allowed
to dry in the air, contains Mannite.The cell-sap of Acetabularia can
be termen as Mucin.

Proteid crystalloids which can be commonly found around Florideae are risen by a kind of Siphonales.

Tannin can be the main reason for the presence of abundant freshwater algae
Colouring Matters.
Presence of chrolophyll feeds the alge with carbonic acid gas during day time.
Phycocyanin, Phycophaein and Phycoerythrin influences and modifies the absorption spectra in
the plants.In the case of phycoerythrin the major part of absorption, apart from the great
absorption at the blue end of the spectrum, is not,while chlorophyll is found alone, near the
Fraunhofer line B, but farther to the right beyond the line D. Engelmann's method traced the greatest
liberation of oxygen, and assimilation of carbon, which occurs in
the spectrum which is situated to the right of the absorption bands.

The penetration power of light into the clear sea varies with respect
to different colour ratios.

Which clearly shows reduced red light is the reason for the lower growth rate approximately
around 34 meters below the mean sea level, and yellow light constitutes
a depth of 177 metres and green light at 322 metres. A truly virtuous man understands and abides by the madates created by society for
the common good. There are laws to restrain the wicked, and agreed upon duties that belong
to every man. He who observes these laws unwaveringly is the most honorable.

The term 'gentleman' at one time meant a man who wore a coat of arms without any title of nobility.
The descendents of early colonists revere and take pride in the old
armorial bearings their ancestors brought from the mother contry. Mrs. Poyntz, her friend, asked me
to come with the aim of making her more similar to her female peers. Lilian was amenable to
this, but she was reluctant to come to London, as I would have wished.
 

Most of the company said that they were not amused, but it must have done. It was quite clear!

The
reason that a pun amuses is because it forces the mind to connect
unconnected objects. Being the dominant
and most advanced creation, man has a superior and discrete consideration, through studies of his
history and mental structure, and the association with a noble reason that differs it from other
animals Henry's rule over London was a terrible one, but nothing compared to the
Catholic capitals of Rome, who veiwed the fall of the country and the murderers of St. Bartholomew.
All of Henry's wrongful deeds could never add up to the heinous acts and desecration that
took place in Rome in 1527 the month of May. Similar events took place in Paris in August of
the same year. England was more fortunate and was spared such indecentcies under the rule of
the great Tudor. II It was clear that Parick was keeping away from the
Principality of Decies. III Tne Declan cult was strange and had kept a powerful influence on
the locals at that time.
The evidence against the theory of the Early Fifth Century period I faulty reasoning and improper
chronological time occurrence of past events II the Declan in the Lives of St. Patrick does
not support the theory III Prosper testified to the Scots who believed that Palladius to be the
first bishop IV the Pre-Patrician story was later invented and the
alleged motives behind the invention 

If it were more fragmented, he wouldn't have had confidence, but the way it was gave him a naive
self-confidence like a child who can't make a mistake because he and his world are one.
 

MECHANICAL ENLARGEMENT OF DESIGNS.

Usually the artists will enlarge designs by the help of eye in
the simplest way.

There are so many methods they will use to do this work.

One of them is first they will dras squares with particular measurements
such as 4cm x 4cm on the whole designs.

Then they will make same number of squares once again on the plain sheet with enlarged squares
such as 8cm x 8cm.

Now they will start to re-art each portion in the smaller square (4cm x 4cm) on the larger square
sheet (8cm x 8cm) exactly. This type of art to enlarge designs will be more suitable for embroidery
designs.  DRY STAMPING.  This process is usually called as pouncing. What is this process? First
you have to place the pattern (rough side) on the particular material
and make it to be stamped well.

For avoiding slipping, it is advisable to carefully keep some weights on the four corners. Now
you have to apply powder over the perforations and you have to sub the powder portion with
the pouncet. In doing so, the pattern will be clearly marked on the material
 

(célèbre are caused by an echo of Romney.)
In view of Sir Thomas Jackson's and others, in The Times and elsewhere's
assault on their honourable calling, the Art critics of London called
a public meeting to consolidate their status.

 after the completion of apprentice ship he went back to London, and obtained an
employment in his trade In 1777,returned to the country, and entered into partnership with his
former master, Mr. Beilby. Bewick has a taste for rural scenery or pleasurable and enjoyments and
the observation of nature, found little interest in London.

He never returned establishing himself in the metropolis even after he had achieved highest
celebrity and spent remaining life in his native district.
The art of wood-engraving was of lowest reputation at that time. Few of his specimens were superb.
We may see in general that the engravings of the above period were mere patches of black and
white. But Bewick introduced those beautiful reliefs, of varieties of light and shade that were
worth form the pictorial effect of an engraving.

The block had been cut for an edition of Gay's mythical creatures; . Hence, he raised wood-engraving
from a state of inferior attitude to the rank of one of the fine arts. To explain Bewick's improvements
may occupy too much our space.
In 1755 a cut of an old hound, he received a premium from the Society of Arts This is the first
specimen of his talents by which Bewick made himself publicly known. The complete work appeared
in 1779 and immediately attracted general attention by the striking
superiority of its decoration, from the wood-cuts executed by Bewick
and his younger brother John.

When Beilby and he entered into partnership, he became their apprentice and a succession of
works which very soon gave altogether a new character to his art itself

Bewick's principal work which established his fame, was his History of Quadrupeds, which appeared
in 1790.

He was employed many years in preparing this publication, all the cuts engraved were all copied
from his own drawings. He had talent for the depiction of animals with tireless industry: he had not
the advantages of academical studies, which education in the metropolis might have afforded him,
but he drew from life, taking sketches of all the striking specimens that came under his notice,
and visiting whichever captivity of exotic animal were brought to Newcastle.
[2] He studied diligent attention from nature, and to this course may be attributed the excellence
of the cuts in the History of Quadrupeds. Many of the some thing which can be written in vine-leaves.
His publication was adorned for uncommon merit as original sketches;
for Bewick did not confine his pencil to the mere depiction of animals.

His glory have been said to partake of his determinate tendency to morality, tenderness, and
humour; in telling composed of distinct tale.[3], with every line a lesson.
A catalogue of Bewick's various works will not be expected in this
brief sketch. I have other notes to compose, and should complete
this. Yours ever.

(188) John Selwyn, elder male sibling of George Augustus Selwyn. He past away about 1750.

(189)William Marquis of Hartington. He did well his dad as fourth Duke of Devonshire in 1755.-E.

(190) Notwithstanding she worked under such disadvantages-and desire of attractiveness and desire
of gifts are grave ones to a cantatrice,-it will be glimpsed from Walpole's note to Mann, 5th
Nov. 1741, that the Moscovita, on her appearance here, obtained six century guineas for the
time of the year, rather than of four century, the wages before granted to the , second woman;"
and became, furthermore, the mistress of Lord Middlesex, the controller of the opera.-E.

(191) Son of the Earl of Findlater and Seafield, who did well his dad in 1764, and past away in
1770.-E.

152 Letter 22 To Richard West, Esq. Rome, May 7, 1740, N. S.

Dear West, 'Twould be rather impolite and unpardonable in one not to desire you delight upon
the large conquests that you are all committing all over the world.

We learned the report last evening from Naples, that Admiral Haddock
(192) had contacted the Spanish convoy going to Majorca, and taken
it all, all; three 1000 men, three colonels, and a Spanish grandee.
We resolve it is factual, for the Neapolitan Majesty cited it at dinner.
We are going thither in about a week, to desire him delight of it
too. 'Tis with some apprehensions we proceed too, of having a pope
selected in the interim: that would be fiendish, you know. But, express
gratitude our stars, there is no large likelihood of it. ' Feuds and
contentions run high amidst the eminences. A prominent one occurred
this week. Cardinal Zinzendorff and two more had granted their votes
for the general of the Capucins: he is of the Barberini family, not
a cardinal, but a worthy man. Standing
near poor Ellis at the deathly moment was a fine promising young middy, Charles Johnson, a nephew
of Mr Brooke's who fortunately escaped unhurt. This were the only accidents on our side.
 "There it is," scribbles a precursor to his friend, "that
we promote sentences of divine law, like precise arrows to harm the enemy. Then, we take the
shields of righteousness, the helmet of salvation, faith's armour
and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God."

With a magnificent end in sight Reculfus of Soissons required his clergy to have a missal,
a sermon, the Gospels, a study of martyrs, an antiphonary, a psalter, a forty homily book
of Gregory, and as many Christian books they could collect.
 

Near the East Cliff are remnants of an old Roman cemetery which may have been used previously by the
British.
There are some bits of evidence left from the Middle Ages in the
town itself. They are fascinating, but few in number. The
people asked with vengefully expressions what our generals and armies are doing. yes, they say
we must purge the interior.
The seventh jacquerie is drawing near, this is the universaland final at first brutal.The legal and systematic
undertaken carried out one the strength of abstract principles of
the means they employ. It was quite obvious that he didn't wanted
to avoid talking to me as he kept his lips closed turnhis back to me.
I always prayed for keeping this man out of my mind but I could not
do so.After applying ointment on his wound and relieving him from
pain.I would always say few words to him but he would ignore,looked
upset but would never reply.

 Instilled personal preference is always an immediate product of the senses.
The young and uncultured, for instance, enjoy bright hues. In fact, the most simple of people
often enjoy the aesthetics of muslin curtains, glossy polish, and smooth ceramics.
 The little fireflies were all over the place: the vines, the trees...everywhere.
And the noisy grasshoppers brought back the feeling of home. Those were there two vivid memories
I had of the haunted village of Sillano.

Every youth can remember that one vivid moment of immortality; the way the clouds crest over the
hills, the colours, and scents of Paradise. Stuff no words can ever describe and no man-made
language, music, or painting could ever describe. That elusive recollection of youth; the purity
of it all, gone before we ever knew we would miss it. Monday March 23- Lohengrin. The house was packed to hear
siblings John and Melba.

A sickly and distressed young boy whispered, "Please, sir, Mr. Johnnie
DeRisky isn't here."

Sir Augustus did not move nor seemed moved by the young boy's plea. However, he was panicking
inside, knowing that he would have to act the part himself if nobody showed up. The orchestra
would be playing Wagner as planned.

Just then, Monsieur van Dyck entered casually, assessing how things were going without him. With
a clear voice, van Dyck announced that his throat was a little hoarse. Pleasantly surprised, Sir
Drury cried "Nonsense!" A 'van Dyck' can ever be a little hoarse. You've come in the nick
of time." Jokingly, and not lost on van Dyck, Sir Drury chuckled "quite a devil's dyke, Mr. Dyck."
The revered opera singer laughed heartily. Drury continued, "You will astonish everyone tonight
as Lohegrin."
van Dyck was surprised, but ready to take the leap. He changed into costume, practiced some voice
exercises, and readied himself for the performance.

Sir Drury was waiting backstage, wondering aloud why the performers were not in place. The
young boy lamented quietly to Drury, "Sir, Madame Melba is not here either."
"Melba not here?" boomed Drury. "Who will play Elsa?" Scarcely were the words out of his mouth,
and in comes Madame Nordica, offering her services for the performance. Relief apparent on
his face, Drury exclaimed, "The show is saved. WE are saved! The show will go on."
Madame Nordica and van Dyck could not have performed more perfectly than if they were already
cast in the starring roles. The crowds gave a standing ovation that
wouldn't quit, requests for encores were abounding, and Drury knew
the crowds would come back again and again. 

October 4th: They had spent nearly half a night hunched low in their saddles, navigating by stars
alone, before they were forced by sheer necessity to stop for the night. They had encroached
upon the sand-plain several hours before, their plan to navigate by night to avoid the harsh
desert sun having worked in their favor for a stealthy advance.

Things had turned around since earlier when they had barely managed to escape the thickets.
 The jenetee is a bird as big as a lark with
black feathers and yellow legs and feet. It accounted for healthy food.  Watch chickens are much
like the crab that I have described, but the legs are not quite so long. Are always kept in humid
swamps, but his nails like birds claws are of the earth. " Make a noise or cluck like our breeding
hens, chickens or dunghill, when they have chickens, so they are called by the English-clocking
hens. There are many in the Bay of Campeche (but failed to discuss them there) and in other
parts of the West Indies. There are both here and there are four types of long-legged birds,
almost the same as many other sub-species of the same class, ie the crab pickers, who registered
chickens galdens (of which three are in shape and color as herons in England, but less; the Galden,
the largest of the three, the smallest transceiver crab) and a fourth
type that are black, but the shape of the other, which has long legs
and short tail, which is about the greatness of the crab and feed do.

Currecoos are water birds, as big as chickens rather large, bluish, with short legs and tail,
which also feed on swampy and very good meat.

I have not seen them elsewhere.
The wild ducks here are said to be of two kinds, the Creoles and common ducks.
In the rainy season here are abundance of them, but in the dry season, but a few. Widgeon and teal also
are said to be in great abundance here in the rainy season.
South Bay there ostriches in great abundance, though it says they
are not as large as those in Africa: are mainly in southern Brazil,
especially among large sheets near the Rio de la Plata, and thence
south to the Strait of Magellan.

As tame birds in Bay head next to his ducks are birds dunghill ", which have two classes, a class
largely on the size of our cocks and hens, and one very large, and the feathers of the latter
is a long time coming forth: for them is very simple when half grown, but when fully developed
and well feathered birds appear large, as indeed they are or what they want for the price, because
Bay sold in half-a crown or three shillings each, as presented first to the market outside
the country, when they are so meager as to be in a little to eat.
Of their cattle, horses, etc.
The animals of the land here are the horses, black cattle, sheep, goats, rabbits, pigs, leopards,
tigers, foxes, monkeys, peccaries (a kind of wild pig called here
pica) armadillos, crocodiles, iguanas (called quittee) lizards, snakes,
toads, frogs and a species of frog called by the Portuguese Cachora-of-water,
in English water dog.

Leopards and tigers.
Leopards and tigers of this country are said to be big and strong: but here on the coast to
be deleted, or moved into the heart of the country, and therefore are rarely, but at the borders and
beyond plantation, where they often play pranks.
Here are three or four types of monkeys, of different sizes and colors. A species is very large,
and another type is very small: these are ugly in form and function and have a strong smell of
musk.

They have here also amphisbaena, or a snake with two heads, gray, mixed with blackish stripes, whose
bite is reckoned to be incurable. Is said to be blind, but has two small spots on each head
as the eyes: but if it is or not, I can not say. They say that living like a mole, underground,
and when it is above ground is easy to destroy, because it moves, but slowly: it is his view (if
any) as well as to discern any person who comes to kill it: the lowest number of flying creatures
a man or hurt, but when it comes their way.

It is 14 inches long and about the greatness of the internal organization of the middle finger
of a man, be one and the same greatness from one extreme to another, with a head at each end
(as they said, because I do not I can attest, that I was interrupted at one end), and both
alike in form and grandeur, and is said to move, either with the
head over all, with indifference, from which is called by the Portuguese
cobra de -two-cabesa, the snake with two heads. From the outer chamber we stepped into
the inner apartment. This part looked much better than the outer compartment. It was more or
less like those early coffee houses. The people out there looked much more decent at least
apparently, than the mixed group of people at the outer chamber. We had the luxury of ordering
anything we wanted to order – from any food and drink, wine, spirits, anything that we would
pay for. A group of girls were trying to entertain their companions by singing, dancing flirting,
drinking and anything they could do. At the first glance, the people out there looked much more
decent at least apparently, than the mixed group of people at the
outer chamber.

But our opinion changed after an incident that took place suddenly. We now knew that morally
these people were much stranger that those out at the outer chamber.
Suddenly the doors opened and three of the most important officers of the Bow Street stormed into
the room. They were all armed– the unrelenting Bishop, unwavering Smith and the unbendable
Ruthven, and ready to take on some frightful encounter. Their followers had haunted them-
hence there was no chance to escape. Bob Transit tried to do so, and in the process had almost
have his skull cracked by the old Jack Townshed who was in active service before and was on duty
at the door.
Someone from the adjacent room screamed “this is an ambush” All of us were crying “please
put off the lights – hide everyone”. But anything could be done the principals were under
protection and safe. The pocket book with all the stolen property, could not escape the prompt
sight of the Bishop and was protected from the fire by the quick arm of the inexorable Bishop

All were forced to assemble in one place and all were searched. No one could escape. Bob Transit
felt most embarrassed. There were some sensuous sketches found in
his pockets!

She died – what a pathetic exile! The heart fills with extreme emotional suffering and sorrow.
Long drawn out against the merciless doors. The chitchat of the gathering mocks the flesh less
corpse. They thank their god that they were saved. ~346~~With the ridiculous beak, who mourned
that such great talent should be applied for time unbound, and with this short speech we all
were allowed to break out and were warned about the future. All the rest of men and women were
rallied to the adjacent watch house for public examination and to wait for the official order
from the authority. Old Crony was logically affected by the hostile meeting, among all those
present. Nothing on the earth probably could have brought in the change in him which was more important
than this. He had recovered his steadiness and his talk and appearance had regained normalcy.
We had not been even half across the market, and Crony started his moral lessons learnt from
the dangerous incidence that we had just experienced and were fortunate to escape unhurt. But
our young and upbeat hearts were not ready to back out at one encounter of an exploring party.
We were all geared up to bring about some change- we were into the
journey of some extravaganza and the pleasure we just could not let
go off.

We believe, in hazy night a determined move will win over a motiveless chase. I and my companions
believed that marauding in the streets of metropolis during mid night has it’s own charm
and adventure. I had deeply boarded on the corrupt night. It helped me to justify the consequences
of this adventure. There are many so called decent person who will shy away with the start
of the dawn.

The people with all their deeds at night and all their oddity and fantasies that they cherish
during night will go red in their face. The expression of grief from old Crony reminded the
complaints of sincere Jack Falstaff against his associates. Our supervisor said “it is not worthwhile
to behave wicked. I believe a true man may suffer in every step of his life but he does not
miss the true pleasure, neither is he endangered by any situation
in life.

But we are now entering a world of injustice and untrue where all the leaders are infected. We
are like ships and we can sail only with wind in opposite direction
and there is no heaven that we can achieve until we die.” The
prints make a part of the page, and designs, with few exceptions, are happy. Numerous facsimiles
of handwriting added autographs for fans, and the point of printing, which is beyond a question
that the volume handsomest and most tasteful in the United States
ever produced.

The press can take some Riverside are currently with the classic
names in the history of art.

But the sentence is shown in the choice of poems that the book deserves its praise leader. Our
readers do not need to be told that Dr. Palmer is, or someone who
can write so well yourself is likely to know what good writing is
in others.

We had never looked so good and the choice of an anthology. The width of its territory and its
catholicity can be estimated by their including William Blake and Dibdin, King and Bishop Dr.
Maginn. It would be difficult to find the person that would not meet here a favorite poem. We
can talk about our own knowledge of the duration of work and loving care that have been dedicated
to her, and the result is a gift book unique in its way and adapted
to all seasons and all tastes.

Nor has the union (an art in the United States is far behind the time) into oblivion. The same
taste is felt here, and Matthews, of New York has sent his admirable workmanship.
In volume Mr. Stoddard have a selection of poems by poet, as illustrated by the loves of the poets.
It's a happy thought happy reality.

With the exception of Dante, Petrarch and Tasso, the choice is made of English poets, and
to this day. It is a book for lovers, and he should be demanding that they can not find her
lover somewhere in between the sheets. The selection of the poets of the Elizabethan and Jacobian
periods is particularly full, and this is as it should, because at no time was our language more
equally distant from the conventions and clichés, or installed as
to improve the force of passion with thought and hidden air courtesy
of the sentence.

The book is a chance to teach, and for, because although everyone knows how to fall in love, few
know how to love. It is a mirror of feminine beauty and devotion manly.
 

Men often tend to marry a girl not just for conjugal bliss and make a family with her, it also involves
various sthings such as a allaiance, dowry, therein sway by reason, as a much or more than
grace and beauty. So love naturally hates that people who have faint belief's about marriage.
Men not only marry for themselves but also for their posterity and family, they can ask what
they want from the girl's family inorder to marry that girl.

The custom and interest of marriage concern our race much more than us and therefore it
is, that the man likes to have a match carried on by a third hand rather than his own and this
is totally opposite to the conventions of love. Its also a kind of incest to employ in this
venerable and sacred alliance the heat and extravagance of amorous
licence.

Aristotle a Greek philosopher, a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great himself
says, a man must approach his wife with prudence and temperance, lest in dealing too lasciviously
with her. The extreme pleasure make her exceed the bounds of reason.

The physicians say upon the account of health: "that a pleasureexcessively lascivious, voluptuous,
and frequent, makes the seed too hot, and hinders conception". Even to that of a languishing
intercourse as this naturally is to supplyit with a due and fruitful heat, a man must do it
but seldom and at appreciable intervals.
"Quo rapiat sitiens Venerem, interiusque recondat."

["But let him thirstily snatch the joys of love and enclose them in his bosom."--Virg., Georg.,
iii. 137.]
There are no marriages where the conjugal compatibility sooner fails because of amorous desires and
the account upon beauty. There is no solid and constant foundation and a greater circumspection
is need before every proceeding. Furious ardour is worth nothing.
Virtue is realized only when a person is noble, a man with nobility
shows his virtue so a few men think honouring marriage by joining
love to it is none other than adding virtue.

Nobility is a brave quality and with good reason introduced, but forasmuch as this is a quality
depending upon others and may happen in a vicious person.
"If nobility be virtue, it loses its quality in all things wherein not virtuous: and if it be
not virtue, 'tis a small matter." --La Byuyere.

Depending upon time and fortune, virtue is one which is atificial and apparent. This varies from
country, living and mortal, various in form, without birth, as the course of the river nile,
genealogical and common, of succession and similitude, drawn by consequence, and a very weak
one. Knowledge, strength, goodness, beauty, riches, and all other
qualities, fall into communication and commerce, but this is consummated
in itself, and of no use to the service of others. Over correcting can be just as bad as under correcting. Both can easily
result in death so parents are at a loss on what to do.
The balance of this essay must be read with the stated dangers kept
in mind.

Boys may be treated based purely on physical illness and you will
likely keep them healthy mentally and physically. Girls are another
matter entirely. the garden
was created with many good walks, pretty disposed, at the end, there is a painting, which
functions as a representation of a much larger in appearance than it really is; and in the middle
of the garden is a round fish pond, which is surrounded by a great number of very genteel
boxes for company, cut into hedges and adorned with a variety of
Flemish and other painting; there are two nice tea-rooms, one on top
of the other, as well as ugly one in the house.

White Conduit Leaves were famous for a long time, and before the big change in price of bread,
during the war with France, they formed one of the regular London cries.
The Vauxhall Gardens had a very interesting description about it which was printed in 1745 under
the A Sketch of Spring Gardens, A letter, Vaux-hall was for the Noble Lord, 8vo. My copy is
pretty good as any edition of his handbook.
i see an inquiry regarding a MS book of prayers that belonged to
Queen Katherine Parr.

I know nothing about the book but i have a copy of the early English printd devotional works,
which belonged to the Queen. The volume has round ornamentaal borders and some clasps of metal.
the content of this was as follows.
A sermon of Saint Chrysostome, was that no man is hurted but of hym-selfe: translated in English
by floure of learned menne in his time.
At the bottom of this title page is writen by a well know Katherine Parr. with equally well-known
flourish beneath.

A sweet and devoted sermon of Holy Saynet Ciprian of mortalitie of man . the rules of a Christian
life made by Picus, was traslated in English by Syr Thomasa Elyot, Knight.
An exhortation of young men, by Thomas Lupsete.

A treatise of charitie, 1534
Here is the gathered counsales of Sainete Isidorie
A compendious and very fruitful treatie teaching the ways of dyenge well, writen to a friend
by flourre of learned men of his time, Thomas Lupsete, Londoner, late deceased. sowle Jesus
have mercy. 1541

Almost all these treatises are printed by Thomas Berthelet. I know not if any of these treatiess
are now scarce. On the fly leaf opposite the first page we find the following scriptual sentences,
which are, in my opinion and in that of others that i have shown the book evidently written
by the queen.
It will be only necessary to give these sentences.
Delyte no of ungoldy mean and have no pleaseure in them for they fear not God.
Refuse not to be prayer in one is in trouble, and turn aaway your
face from the needy.

We dont need to quote, but the opposite side of the leaf are some verses of a different person,
and which i suspect to be from the royal penn of Henry VIII. The writing is difficult to read,
but it seems like it is the same as Henry's handwriting. a portion
of the verses, I can make from them are here.  
Blush not of no
bell blodd. i fain avoutch it. and manners good. spottles in of mynd
sincere and sound in whoma world of vertues doth abowend and sith
beyond withall Set dought and to some fall, Therefore, suspicion.
i do banyshe thee.  
then follows a line i cant read, and at the
bottom of this page is  
You will not be clear of my suspiscion. His situation was one which ought possess severely endeavoured
the firmest nerves. Night had predetermined in: he was within a desert: he had none guide: a winning
enemy was, within everybody human probability, onto his track; and he had towards provide
for the safety of a crowd of men whom had forgotten both brain and heart. He had just suffered
a defeat of everybody defeats the most painful and humiliating.

His domestic feelings had been not less severely injured than his businesswoman feelings.
One dear kinsman had just been punched dead ahead of his eyes. Another, bleeding from a lot hurts,
transported feebly at his side. But the unfortunate general's courage was upheld via a steady
religion within God, and a tall feel of obligation towards the state. In the midst of dejection and
disgrace, he still held his brain nobly erect, and located fortitude, not alone for himself;
but for circled him. His former care was towards be sure of his road. A single light which
twinkled across the darkness guided him towards a low hovel.

The inmates spoke none tongue but the Gaelic, and were at former scared via the impression of
uniforms and arms. But Mackay's gentle method swept their apprehension: their grammar had been
familiar towards him within childhood; and he reserved adequate of it towards communicate
with them. By their commands, and via the assistance of a pocket map, within which the routes
across that desolated nation were roughly laid down, he was able towards encounter his way. He
marched everybody night. When day burst his labor was many difficult
than ever.

Light increased the terror of his companions. Hastings's men and Leven's men indeed still behaved
themselves want soldiers. But the fugitives from Ramsay's were a mere rabble. They had thrown
away their muskets. The broadswords from which they had retreated were ever within their eyes.
 As I have said, the reason of the club being around is the main focus of
it collection of rare books, and of these by far the most interesting are its own publications.
Its catalogues re works of art, published in numbered editions, and sought after by libraries
and book-collectors.

In its early history it began publishing occasional books which they thought should meet the
club standard, -books in they focused on the qualities that made a book valuable in the eyes
of the collectors. The club could control its own publications, of these, age could not, of
course, be imparted, but in the matter of fine and curious bindings,
of hand-made linen papers, of uncut deckle edges, of wide margins
and limited editions.

The content was less important consideration.

At first it was felt by the publishing consideration.

At first it was felt by the publishing committee that nothing but the finest products of the
human mind should be selected for enshroud in the beautiful volumes
which the club should issue.

An important consideration was the length of the work; -long things were not compatible with wide
margins and graceful slenderness.

We brought out Coleridge's Ancient Mariner, an essay by Emerson, and another by Thoreau. Our Rubaiyat
of Omar Khayyam was Heron-Allen's translation of the original MS
in the Bodleian Library at Oxford, which, though less poetical than
FitzGerald's, was not so common.

We began to publish the works of our own members, several years ago.
Bascom's Essay on Pipes was a very creditable performance. It was
sufficiently rare to be valuable for that reason. 

He came with James on the way back, staying silent for most of the time. To him, it didn't feel
like Henry was dead, instead it seemed like a nightmare that he needed
to wake up from.

The vision of his mother was agonizing and caused tears to fall from his eyes. Looking back
on his childhood caused pain, but it was necessary to help repair
the anguish he had experienced.

CHAPTER VII. 
THE MEETING. 
The consensus was that Henry should
be buried the day after he died. 

To each individual Christian, Christ is the head of the church.

This is essential in our Government. In this case, we have the idea of "a free church in a free
country." Christianty was supported by thrones in the past. Religion was enforced by all types
of military forces. The great cathedrals, and the church livings, were maintained by a tax which
was imposed upon people who did not believe in the teachings and
forms of worship practiced.

Our Government has laws about the Separation of Church and State. All people under our Government
are free to choose which Religion they shall follow. Under our Government the Muslim may worship
Allah. The Christian may pray in public. ranscriber's Note:
Slight formatting flaw have been refined and annotations moved to the end of the related article.
Greek interpretations are sorrounded by ~tildes~. Had the baronet been within the distance of a lettre de cachet,
want Mirabeau's husband, he would certainly possess had Percy put
into Newgate and kept there.

The malediction of the old man seems towards possess clung towards Shelley's mind towards the
end, and made him rebellious against everything bearing the paternal
name.

He attacked the Father of the Hebrew theocracy with impressive bitterness,
and attended Prometheus within cursing and dethroning Zeus, the Olympian
usurper.

With him, tyrant and husband were synonymous, and he has drawn the old Cenci, within the play
of that name, with the equivalent fierce, unfilial pencil, swum within blood and wormwood. Shelley
was via nature, self-instruction, and inexperience of life, restless
and full of impulse; and the sharp and violent indices via which they
tackled towards reclaim him alone exasperated him the many against
everything respected via his critics and persecutors.

Genius is via nature aggressive or retaliatory; and the young poet, writhing and joking hysterically,
want Demogorgon, replaced the deride of culture with a deride, the
deeper and loftier within the end, that it evolved composure and became
the abiding belief of a philosophic life.

It was the act of his husband which drove Shelley into such open
rebellion against gods and men.

Very presumably, although he powers possess lived an infidel within religious matters, want tens
of thousands of his fellows, he would not possess composed, or, at lowest, published, such shocking
things, whether his husband had been many patient with a youth so organized. But parents possess
entitlement towards appear a horrible anger when unsuccessful via
their children, and within this instance the husband too much resembled
the son within wilful impetuosity of temper.

Turned out of his former house, Shelley went wandering forth via
land and sea,--a reed shaken via the wind, a restless outcast yearning
for repose and human sympathy, and within this distance encountering
the questionable accidents of his saddened, unguarded life, and group
everybody the feverish inspiration of his melancholy and unknown poetry.

With a feel of physical infirmity or defect which dictated the sequestered philosophy of the
Cowpers, the Bérangers, and others, the manlier minds of literature, incorporating Byron himself,
within a number of quantity, Shelley felt he was not install for
the offend and hum of men and the increased or lesser legerdemain
of life, and so swung shyly away towards live and pursue his blueprints
and reveries apart, as soon as the law of his being, violating within
this distance what may be branded the ordinary law of culture, and
confronting the providence of everybody nonconformists.

He was slighted and ridiculed, and even suspected; for civilians within general, when they see
a man go aside from the highway, maundering and addressing himself,
think there ought be a reason for it; they imagine him insane, or
scornful, or meditating a murder,--in any instance, one towards be
toured with steely thoughts; and hence confused curiosity shall evolve
uncomfortably into disgust, and into calumny, unless into a number
of species of outrage,--and very naturally, as soon as all; for man
is, onto the complete, made for culture, and culture has a queen right
towards rob cognizance of him, his passages and his motions, as a
matter of necessary surveillance.

The earth shall class men "in its coarse blacks and whites." Some mark Shelley with charcoal,
others with chalk,--the former consulting him a reprobate, the latter
admiring him as a high-souled lover of human happiness and human liberty.

But he was something of both together,--and would possess been nothing without that worst portion
of him.

He operated perversely react towards the lessons of his teachers, and played within resistance
of the frequent opinions and mannerisms of the world. He was too out-spoken, want everybody genius;
whereas the earth inculcates the tall realistic wisdom of a shut mouth and a secretive mind. Fontenelle,
speaking according towards the philosophy of the crowd, says, "A sensible man, with his fist full of truths,
would open alone his little finger."
 He scrutinizes the discrepancies of Berthe's case. Going through
the studies of M.ISNARD he elaborated a complete account of the morbidity which is closely
associated with that of VAN SWEITEN and also with the appearances obtained from the Children's asylum.

M.Marjolin claimed that almost all the infants suffering from the disease admitted in the hospital
of Paris used to be severely affected by it. He also propogated the use of muriatic acid, as VAN
SWEITEN had suggested, which Marjolin amalgamated with honey in 1:1
ratio .

Thick sloughs were chopped away with a bistouri or with a pair of scissors. MM.JADELOT, GUERSENT
and BARON have previously used the actual cautery with positive results
on a number of times.

M MARJOLIN managed to successfully treat about three cases one each by actual cautery, caustic
potassa and muriate of soda! which he claims to have the added advantage
of reducing the foul odour.

Certainly the repetition of these experiments of a simple treatment will be interesting and we shall
give our best to do so in such patients which admit of delay.
FOOTNOTES:

[1] Vol. I. p. 319, Anderson's edition.

[2] Principles of Surgery; by JOHN PEARSON. Lond. 1788. p. 262, et seq.
[3] Opera omnia. Vol. II. p. 271. In the Loganian Library.
[4] Ibidem.
[5] See CORNELII STALPAART VANDER WIEL Observationes Medico-Anatomicæ.
p. 167.

Note by the editor, P. STALPAART VANDER WIEL. Amsterdam, 1687. In the Loganian Library. 
[6]
In the Loganian Library.
[7] Page 193.

[8] Page 217.

[9] Commentaria.--Edit. Lugd. Bat. 1742. Vol. I. pp. 766, 767.  [10] This nomenclature can
be from ancient English or Dutch either by the orthodox people or those enlightened in the field
of medicine.Cancrum is a misnomer actually being a accusative of Cancer instead of being something
concrete. Cancer is more widely accepted and used in a haphazard manner to any chronic and not
resolving ulcers and especially to gangrene. the discrepancy crept in apparently due to Pearson
which was picked up by Mr.Cooper. A month back she had put in lots of work regardless of an attack
of intermittent fever which was cured by a nominal short term treatment.At 23 yrs of age this
English lady was in the pink of health. She had a normal labour without the need of foreceps
of undue interventions.

During parturition there was nothing extra-ordinary about the neonate. Respiration was initiated
immediately and was normal, skin was pink and all in all the prognosis seemed good. Unexpectedly
though with the passage of time the neonate became restless and cried. The nurse assuming it to
be flatulence gave some warm tea to no avail. The next day I observed
the neonate again and procurred the information that it had micturited
a lot and also passed meconium. The intestinal contractions were still
present for which a teaspoon of cator oil was given to empty the remaining
bowel in the intestines which may be the underlying cause of the spasms.
 A huge number of old ships have to be stopped no matter the reason
before the end of the year, because they need their crews for large
reinforcements of the new vessels that the builders of workships are
rushing into the water.Ships that are lost,as long as the crew and
leaders are saved which in most instances both have been lost, will
be easily exaggerated in both ally and enemy minds.

 

I don't exactly think of myself as having a green thumb, but I can assure you that if I'd fully
comprehended the essence or importance of the orchard back when we arrived in Kansas nineteen
years ago, things would have gone much better. In particular, I don't think that it's possible
to succeed if your orchard is on upland and exposed.

If it is, you could maybe use it as a family orchard, assuming that you could plant a reasonable
windbreak around it (I'd recommend on the south side). But even if someone gave it to me as a
gift, I wouldn't take even a largeish orchard on exposed upland, even with apple trees thrown
in sufficient to plant it, if the condition were that I'd have to plant it and take care of
it for a decade or more. I've never seen even one such orchard that I'd want. I recommend that
you find low ground, with a slope going northward and eastward, with raised land or at least
good protection from timber to the south and the west, and the land tending towards bottom.
I believe that you could raise excellent apples here profitably, given a good choice of varieties,
as well as good land and location.

Storing apples in cellars is a bad idea; it's much better to find a suitable cave where they
can be kept as cold as can be without actually freezing. Last autumn, I was able to sell my best
apples at a price between forty and fifty cents a bushel. Some, though, I kept in barrels back in
the cave, because there was strong demand for them later. Around Christmas, I got $1.25 a bushel,
and then even $1.35. I'd contracted with a grocer that they'd sell them for 15%, and that's
what I made. I still even have some in my cave in great condition
(as of April 27). And I open the cave up when the temperature drops
at night. 

Excuses and requests for help rained from his mouth. While she listened, she was not moved by
his words and asked a priest to talk with him. After this, he was hit repeatedly with a sword
to the head. Even with a coat of mail blocking some of the damage there was nothing that could
be done to help as he slithered away from the attack...
Louis XIV would make trips to Fontainebleau as often as possible throughout his life. Even after
he built the amazing homes of Versailles and Marly, Louis made his entire family and followers
accompany him. There was no possible excuse as he just had them come by ship if they were unable
to go at first. Louis chose to sleep at the Duc d'Antin's house, or at Marechal de Villeroy's
home if his first option failed.
It was in 1661 in Fontainebleau that the Grand Dauphin was born.

Not only that, but it was also where the King first asked Mme. de Maintenon for advice. He
was wondering whether or not he should take the throne of Spain in
place of the Duc dAnjou.

It was not until 1685 that Louis signed the cancelation of the edict
of Naples in Fontainebleau.

It was in this palace tha the amazing Conde passed away. So many events occured in this place.
For example, in 1725 Louis XV married Marie Leczinska.

It was only forty years later that their son Dauphin died. However the palace also had many
simple pleasures such as it's hunting facilities which Louis XIV was thrilled with.
Post the french revolution the chateau saw many wonderful yet awful events occur. It was here
that Pope, Pius VII unwillingly signed away his short sovereignty to Napolean I. After this
resignation of sorts the chateau still saw Napolean bid ado to his soldiers before heading to
Elba. The name of this historical chateau was the Cour du Cheval-Blanc. It was the biggest of
all the courts and has recently been called the Cour des Adieux because of Napoleans good bye in
1814. While there are many buildings surrounding the court, one of
the originals was removed in 1810 and a grille moved in.

The court is made up of five pavillions. These have roofs as high as the eye can see as well as buildings
2 floors up. For Louis XV a special twisted staircase was created. The beautiful masterpiece
was created by Lemercier. On the right there is a multitude of buildings called the Aile Neuve
of Louis XV. These buildings destroyed many precious pieces from artists such as Primaticcio
and Niccolo dell Abbate.
The Cour de la Fontaine was built farther west and the Galerie de Francois was formed in the front.
Further away is the "great tank" where an advisor to an eight year
old Gaston d' Orleans was thrown for speaking rudely.

The court changes often. The fountain, which inspired the courts name was once decorated by
Serlios work wheras now it is made up of Petitot's wprst pieces. Then on the left is the Porte
Doree which was built under Francois. He had it decorated and lavished with Primaticcio's paintings.
This is the same spot where Charles V arrived at in 1539.
In present times there is a staircase that goes along to the first
floor.

At the end is Napolean I's rooms. All around is evidence of the First Empire style. There have
been many momentous occasions that took place in these rooms. For example, the cabinet de l'Abdication
is where Napolean gave up his power. His sleeping quarters led to the Salon de Famille of Louis
Philippe. All the rooms are designed by Boucher, the best of the time. It was also here that the
Marechal de Biron was thrown in jail just as he was leaving. 

"Why don't you undress me, my shame prevents me from doing so, Percy." she said in a low voice.
"Oh, I feel so funny all over!"
Giving an extra luscious kiss. I took the hooks, buttons, and the strings, till she had nothing
on, but her stockings. She covered her face with her hands to hide
her shame.

I gave her no time to reflect, but I took advantage of her state, my lips and tong rubbed her bosom
and belly, and my tongue titillated her starting down the abs and
moved zlpwly till it reached her arm-pit. She quivered under the intensity
of her feelings "Ah!" 

Here, Saint John salmon costs about 14 cents per pound, including duty and all. The first salmon
sells for a dollar per pound, and so on until it reaches 12 1/2 cents
the last of the season.' 
Bucksport salmon has been sold to dealers
here at 8 cents a pound.

In 24 hours, two tons taken at Orland and Bucksport. Average retail price the whole season here,
25 cents.
Yours sincerely,

E.M. Stillwell

-------
STATE OF MAINE, DEPARTMENT OF FISHERIES, Bangor, October 4, 1879
DEAR PROFESSOR: This delayed response to your kind letter has not been from want of courtesy,
but rather the desire to send you the required "data" as requested. Neither I nor Mr. Atkins
have been able to obtain them. The weir fisherman do not keep any records, and it is a challenge
to procure anything reliable from them; while the above-tidewater
fishermen are a poor band of established poachers, whose sole occupation
is to hunt and fish both in and out of the season.

They are jealous always, and most reluctant to inform us of what a good thing they make of
it, fearing us and fearing competition within their own class.
Four or five years after I put approximately three hundred thousand salmon fry into the Mattawamkeag
at Bancroft, Kingsmore, Eaton, and Mattawamkeag village. Three dams exist between Mattawamkeag
and Bancroft, the least of which exceeds twelve feet high. About six weeks later, a railroad conductor
of the European and North American Railroad by the name of Mr. Nathaniel Sweat hooked a sizable
salmon, losing his line and flies while trout fishing from a pier
situated above the Bancroft railroad bridge.

Great quantities of salmon have continually been jumping below that first dam, known as "Gordon's
Falls."
My Portland colleague, civil engineer Everett Smith, counted 15 salmon jumping in 30 minutes
while conducting a survey for a fishway. A certain Mr. Bailey, foreman of the Mattawamkeag repair
shop, walked to the falls about three weeks since from sheer curiosity resulting from rumors of
the sight to be seen, and counted 60 salmon jumping in the span of an hour, within a space
of a half or three-quarters of a mile of the falls.

This occurred on the Mattawamkeag, a large tributary of the Penobscot.
There has been a large run of salmon on the eastern branch of the Penobscot. An explorer on the
Wassattaquoik claimed the pools to be literally black with the salmon. A group of poachers, having
heard the rumor, came in from Hodgon and killed as many as twenty-five.

Enclosed is a letter from Mr. Prentiss, one of our wealthiest and most prominent merchants, which
needs no further explanation: I would be much obliged if you could return this document, as
it will likely come in handy in my report.
I hear reports of great quantities of salmon on the west branch of the Penobscot, but since the
collapse of two significant dams at Chesancook and the North Twin Dam, which hold back the immense
store of water from the sizable tributary lakes feeding the Penobscot and is used to the drive
winter's cut logs through the droughts of summer, has released the entire stock of fish which
were previously impeded until the gate were opened to allow the lumber to pass through. Of course
these fish would not be seen as they made their way up in silence.
It is my regret that I have no more valuable information to share
with you.

I hope only that this minimal contribution might bring you the joy it has brought me,
I remain, yours truly,
E.M. STILWELL, Commissioner of Fisheries for State of Maine.

------
Prof. SPENCER F. BAIRD, United States Commissioner Fish and Fisheries. BANGOR, October 3, 1879.

M. STILWELL, Esq.,
DEAR SIR: Harvard Professor C.E. Hamlin and I lately ventured to Mount
Katahdin this previous month for a scientific exploration and survey
of the aforementioned mount.

In July, I had been salmon fishing on the Grand Bonaventure, more specifically on Bay of Chaleur,
and I failed to see why it would not be possible to fish for salmon at the Hunt place along the
east branch of the Penobscot where we crossed as we made our way to the Katahdin. I considered
that the pool from the mouth of Wassatiquoik to the Hunt place, a distance of approximately half
a mile, must be a superior salmon pool, an opinion which my guide and the local people confirmed.
They claimed salmon in excess of a hundred had been taken from that single pool in this season
alone. The closest settlement, and the only one to be found on the whole of the east branch,
is about six miles' distance from there, and the more youthful men go on Sundays, fishing
with drift-nets.

No consistent fishing for market--the only supply that may be used is backwoods and local.
These fish were of a singular size, about eight to eleven pounds apiece.
There never used to be enough fish in the area to make the time spent drifting for them worthwhile.
A few years ago, not a single salmon was caught there. Twenty-two years ago, in that time before
the enacting of our fish laws, the Hunt place farmer had a net that stretched across the river
all the way to the bottom, which he kept permanently in place, and
only used to catch two or three salmon weekly. 

Although each instructor had a unique teaching style, each one was like the next in that they
all persisted in quashing any individuality in their students. The professors rigidly maintained
the intellectual status quo by suppressing any originality and spontaneity shown by the students.
 

There is much to be said about Shakespeare's timeless writings; diamonds in the rough, powerful
words, speaking wisdom and truth as few others have. His words are sometimes deep and elusive,
other times light-hearted and corny, yet still thought provoking.
Dryden, panning one such play, stated that it started with a bang, but then fizzled. The characters
are well developed and genuine, but rather outrageously portrayed.

Pandarus is a thug, and Thersites, is an approval seeker who seems outlandish.
 As the sun dimmed, the
fight came to a close. Sir your endeavors of larceny have ended and your slight to my benefactor
shall be paid in full. "Who sent you? mumbled James, his face beaten and bloodied, cowering
in the gutter. "I am called the Collector" said the lumbering man. "You can call me master
for now, for that seems the most appropriate given your circumstance".

"What was stolen has been recovered from your room James but there must be justice it seems,
so you will work for her until your told otherwise".

The theif sat back all at once looking suprised,relieved and filled
with a new sort of worry.

The constable returning from his rounds stoped as a shadow crossed
his path.

Moments later on his back the arrogent enforcer himself was beging
for mercy.

"Please what do you want?" muttered the officer.

"A debt to be paid nothing less or more" said he.

"Wha?" "Who are you?!".

"I am the Collector and your debts shall be paid".

The by now pale constable didnt know what was coming but all-ready
feared the worst.

The head moneychanger, self important and untouchable by even the law itself. That was yesterday,
today he found himself waylaid in his own bedroom.

Muttering a dozen quick questions, "Sir who are you?" "Do you know who I am!?" "I'll have
you hung for this".

The Collector took his time and ignored the small mans furry. "I am the Collector and today
all of your assets are now at her disposal" "In fact all of your subordinates will also pay
a tax on each loan given". The moneychanger gasped "that's impossible". "It's all-ready done,
this is HER city now" he smiled.

Three weeks later the queen and her guard riding into town came to
a halt as a man appeared on the bridge.

"My lady a word if you would" called the lone rider. The guards looked ready to pounce, but the
queen gave the signal for him to approach unimpeded. "Sir you have alot of gall showing yourself
in public, less so in the presence of the royal guard". "Not so fair queen" "The guard has
belonged to Her for many a day now" he said. The queen gasped "Not possible". The Collector
beamed as he said "Today we talk the future of Her kingdom, and your place in it".

Home the servant rode, The Collector having turned an entire city
on its head.

The place was simple, if slightly fine. She was waiting there, somewhere, in the darkness. News
of the first city to bend their knee's on his lips. One way or another they would all know Her
name. Nothing trains thoughtful, self-respecting
lives as knowing English literature and the great minds who produced
it.

On of the main goals of the school is to make " mobile libraries", each of 20 or so books, selected
to be available, of school graduates teaching in rural areas. The African-American teachers
of the county held monthly meetings at LeMoyne Institute, and have
received regular instruction in voice teaching from the school's music
director.

 

I stopped to listen. I heard groaning, and looked for the place where the sound came from. I walked
about ten steps, and discovered a man, the same one whose body lies there (points to the deceased),
who was sitting with his back against a large rock. He was very pale, I thought he might be
dead, except he kept moaning until I got next to him. He opened his eyes when he heard me,
and said "For the love of God, give me some water!" I asked "What's wrong?" He said "Someone
shot me in the back!" "Is it serious?" I asked. "It's Fatal" he replied in an exasperated manner.
I didn't ask him any more questions. I went back to the cabin, told my daughter Zenie about
it, and sent her to go get the men.

I grabbed a gourd of water, bread and milk. I though the poor guy might be hungry, and looked
weak in addition to being wounded. So I hurried back to him, and stayed until "father"--as
my husband is called by everyone--arrived with the men. We moved
him, gently as possible, to the cabin.

Then we went for Dr. Liebner, and tried to nurse him back to health, but he died yesterday
around sunset.
Coroner's Question: Did you hear the statement by him, that was taken
by the Assistant District-Attorney?

A. Yes
Q. Did you witness him sign it? A. Yes, i did.
Q. Is this your signature here, as a witness?

A. Yes, it is.
(Signed) Dollie Adams.
Deposition of Miss X.V. Adams.
The witness testified as follows, after being sworn in: I am Xixenia
Volumnia Adams, the daughter of Frank G. Adams, who was the last witness.

I live with them on the Flat, and I'm 18 years old. Just past one o'clock last Sunday, my mom came
running into the house and told me that there was a man dying on the hillsie, a wounded man,
and that I should get father and the men right away. I ran as fast as I could, to where they
were "cleaning up," because they didn't clean up on weekdays at the Flat, and I told them what
was happening. All of us came back as one group and went to the spot where the man was, laying
in his own blood. We carefully moved him to the cabin, where he stayed barely alive until yesterday,
at sundown, where he finally passed on.

Question. Did he say anything after you moved him to the cabin? A. He spoke quite a bit. First
very painfully, but after some rest he spoke more loudly and clearly.
Q. What did he tell you? A. He asked us to get Squire Jacobs, the Assistant District-Attorney, becuase
he wanted to make an official statement.

And later, he asked for his wife. But we got the doctor first.
Q. Who was there when he died? A. Only me. He looked like he was getting better, and his wife
had laid down to take a nap, and my mom went to the spring and left
me by myself to watch over him.

But suddenly, he had a spasm, looke daround with crazy eyes and said something I couldn't hear
very well.

He saw me, and yelled "Run! Run! Run! He's got it! Black Bart's got the vial! Quick! Or he's
gonna set the world on fire! See, he's opening it! Oh my God! Look! Look! Look! Grab his hands,
tie him, chain him up! Too late!

Its too late! oh, the flames! Fire! Fire! Fire!" His voice got stronger,
slowly, until his ranting ended.

When he said the word "fire!" he had a glaring stare, his mouth shook,
his body spasmed, and he fell dead, before Mrs. Gillson could reach
his side.

(Signed) X.V. Adams.
Adams' testimony corroborated every particular detail of his wife and daughter's story, but included
more detail about the demonic rantings. He wouldn't drink from a bottle or glass, and he shook
when anything like that was brought to him.

They had to take all the cups, tumblers, and castors from the room! Sometimes he talked rationally,
but the second day he only had temporary periods of sanity.
The physician, after giving general facts about the patient's illness and his death, gave the
following deposition:

The patient was weak when I found him, and had a loss of blood, and
needed rest and food.

Sometimes he was sane, but mostly flighty and comatose. His wound was ordinary for a gunshot
wound, caused mostly by the ball of a navy revolver in all probability, fired at ten paces.
It entered the patient's back, near the left clavicle, close to the
vertebrae, bneath the scapula, between the intercostal spaces of the
fifth and sixth ribs; it grazed the pericardium, then traversed the
mediastinum, barely touched the oesophagus, and vena azygos, but unfortunately
completely severed the thoracic duct, and lodged in the sternum, in
the xiphoid portion.

It was definitely a fatal wound, but it is perfectly possible for a patient like this to hang
on for a week, sometimes longer. But I'm positive that this is the wound he died from.
 

This is a letter of king Richard directed to the States of the land for the deposing of the
bishop of Elie from his office of lord chancellour.  Paris. In time he was deposed from his
office of being chancellour, and not without warrant, for in verie
deed, king Richard hauing receiued aduertisements from the lords and
peeres of the realme, of the chancellours presumpuous and hautie demeanour,
with wrongs offered to diuerse persons, wrote to them againe as followeth.

 

'A confrontation with my brother who I misunderstood' Jacob has become a very rich man meanwhile
and had many slaves and huge flocks. laban use to ignore him now
a days so he decided and moved away with his wives and son and took
with him all his cattles without telling laban. he crossed river Euphrates
and made his way toward Mount Gilead. he sent a message to Esau his
brother who was the king that “he has spent his time with Laban
and now he is back with lots of money and cattles and slaves so his
king may be pleased with him"

 Once
they were safely at sea and beyond sight of land, each and every one of the staid Norman sailors
took on the untamed character of the sea. They boarded every slower ship they came upon and, true
to their buccaneering ways, removed all provisions after feigning
hardship to the captains.

Two months passed and then two more, until the ninth of March in the year 1557, when the sailors'
laden ship approached Ganabara's port, where the fleur-de-lis was flying above Fort Coligny's
walls. 

The pregnant animals soon had a young one. Ever since then the horses have legs where the wings
used to be and no human has seen a horse fly.

In the high land a lazy man was planing corn. He planted a handful of seeds then put his stick
into the ground and leaned on it. The man soon became a monkey when the stick turned into a tail.
(371)
A lazy boy got a pieve of sugar can to take home. He got home and told his mother he wanted
to eat the outside of the stalk so to take it off. His mother told
him he could not take it off himself because she was angry he was
so lazy and wanted to stick it up his butt. He then did just that,
and became a monkey. 

Hospitals and Municipalities in the North are demanding more aid.

Since the Communes' property has been mortgaged, the only funding is revenue. 480,000 livres
had been collected. 10,000 went to the Department of the North. Essentially, there is now no official
inclination anywhere in the North to bother with the internal affairs in the South-- despite
an opposing public opinion. 
Without an official push from the
Northern government, what force will cause change? Should blacks revolt?
Or should they just migrate to the North? 

Calm in mood, dignified, majestic and often in the design, which is beyond all others in the
craft, he mingled thought, feeling, color, brush work in an increasingly
large and bright.

He pointed out anything, but still high. In pure intellectual thought he was not so strong
as Raphael. He never tried to make painting a vehicle for theological ideas, literary, or
classical. His story was much of humanity under a religious or classical, but a noble humanity,
majestic. In his art worthy senators, Doges Stern and solemn ecclesiastics mingle with open-eyed
madonnas, winning Ariadnes and Bacchuses youthful. Men and women are really, but very noble
Italian race, the country's mountain race Cadore - proud, active, glowing with life, great
race in Venice - Worldly Wise, full of character, luxury power.
In itself was a symbol of all the excellences of painting. He was everything, the amount of skilled
Venetian Renaissance art genius coronation. He had force, power, invention, imagination, perspective,
he had infinite knowledge of nature and the infinite mastery of art. In addition, Fortune smiled
on him as a favorite child. Trained mind and a part of lived ninety-nine years and has worked
ceaselessly to several months after his death. His genius was his big achievement as this. He was
celebrated and independent at thirty-five, though before that he
showed something of the influence of Giorgione. his ceremony now goes
to conluded. And they taken the bride and bridegroom and they were walking towards the holy
screen. Before that they were free from the priest's hands. They received the congratulations
of the company and friends and salued each other. Prisoners, who can support themselves, can live in private apartments, use cards, and
have servants and other luxuries. The prisoners are freed of chains and fetters which are then
spread against the wall, until the final hour that marks the end of the ceremony; after which the
fetters are put where they can't harm anybody. Those who can't bribe the keepers are disadvantaged.
They are not relieved of their suffering and in addition to this, infliction of punishment is increased
with the aim of getting money illegally to provide offerings for
the god of jail.

In this case the prisoners are rounded up and flogged after being tied. The prison rats are permitted,
at night, to bite prisoners' limbs, while they are feted down to a board, neck, wrists, and
ankles as they languish in the middle of ordure and filth. In a common language this place of suffering
is known as "Te-yuk," a term that is not even comparable to the word "hell."
TOUR ROUND THE CITY WALLS Chinese view their walled towns as fortifications in the same manner
Europeans consider theirs.

Chinese does not let foreigners into these towns except on special occasions. Foreigners can
however walk in the suburbs. Europeans in China are limited to shorter walks but some of them
sometimes ignore the limit and try to have longer walks. On past incidences, some of the foreign
tourists have been robbed of their watches and clothes.

Some days ago, three individuals started a party at six o'clock
in the morning till eight but few days afterwards they were attacked
by a group of men and boys who used bludgeons, brickbats, and stones
to inflict serious wounds.

These wounds actually endangered the foreigners' lives that were
forced to escape by running several miles.

Since we understand the inhumane feelings of the population, we are not amused but rather congratulate
the tourists for their perfect escape.
THE GATHERER "A group of unimportant trifles" SHAKSPEARE.
BAPTISMAL PROMISES.

A clergyman asked one of her subjects what she was promised by her
godfathers and godmothers, who naively answered that she knew that
they promised to give her six silver spoons but she has never received
them.

A GOOD WIFE. The actual portrait of a fine lady who is the wife to one of the ancient and
high profile family of the Fanes, Earls of Westmoreland. This portrait was drawn by her husband,
and put upon a wall of a room in Buxton Place, in a seat owned by this noble family, near Maidstone,
Kent--Adopted from Mist's Journal.

 You
can use the board for kindling, so go back to the kitchen."

"You talkin' to me? No ma'am, I ain't touchin' it!"

I shouted, "I'll burn it, I'd be glad to."

Gladolia's steps could be heard as she moved off to the kitchen, resounding
heavily upon the floor.

"What are you trying to conceal from me, John?" asked my Lavina rather waspishly. "There's no
use trying to deceive me."

I lied elaborately, "Who? Me? Absolutely not!". I looked around to see if the ghost was concealed
enough. I'm a small man, and she's so big, so it was a bad move on my part.

"John," demanded Lavina like the boss of a ward, "somebody is in here and you are hiding them!
Who is it?"

I gurgled in my throat as I waved denial.

"It's bad enough that you flirt with that hussy over the Ouija board," continued Lavina.

I began leaping about lithely, attempting to keep her from focusing her gaze behind me. "Believe
me, my love, the affair was quite above-board!"

"I will see who's behind you," said Lavina, thrusting me back with sudden, unexpected strength.
"Where is Helen?"

A disembodied voice came from the ghost, "Who, me? I'm Helen."

Lavina looked at the ghostly Helen, with her plaid skirt, stiff shirtwaist,
owl eyes, hair back without powder on her nose.

I thought she would faint, and I put my arm around her in a very husbandly fashion, but Lavina
didn't swoon one bit. A broad, satisfied smirk spread over her face.

"You? You're Helen? I thought you were Helen of Troy", said Lavina.

Helen seemed unperturbed, saying "I used to be Helen of Troy. Of Troy, New York, that is. And
now I'll be going, so if you'll excuse me, I'll see you later."

We saw only a hand waving farewell as Helen briskly telescoped away.

At Helen's departure, my Lavina fell forgivingly into my arms. I kissed
her fervently, once or twice, and then I shoved her aside. I suddenly
had an unshakeable desire to write, especially with the sheets of
paper spread invitingly before me on my desk.

"I've got the best
plot for a ghost story!" I exclaimed.

-- Editing out title/author
of next story -- The Lady and the Ghost

She wasn't sure at first,
but slowly the Lady became convinced that something was occurring
in the corner of the room. However, the nature of the occurrence was
not yet clear.

"It verges upon the uncanny," she murmured, "to put
it mildly, that is." She leaned forward upon her silken nears to more
closely examine the phenomenon.

It seemed like some faint and unexplainable
atmospheric derangement at first. But there was no open window, no
open door, no noticeable drafts in the room. A few papers fluttered
to the floor and the Lady could see the fringes of the hangings softly
waving in the ghostly stillness. It would have been easy to dismiss
this as a vagrant draft, but things seemed to grow ever more unusual.
Then, violently, all the air in the room rushed to the point, and
in what could only be described as an aerial convulsion, something
seemed to appear at intervals with the faintest of shapes.

A book
flew open with fluttering pages, disturbing the silence of the room.
Vases of violets blew over, dripping their perfumed water to the floor.
A breeze continued to pass through the chamber, rustling through the
knick-knacks and trifles.

Although the Lady's gaze was fixed on the
corner, ringlets of her hair swept forward, as if they were also intent
on the apparition. The atmosphere was filled with tension, and the
Lady rose involuntarily to step forward against the pressure of her
petticoats as they were blown about her ankles. She was often by his side when he studied
and in every way she helped him. Sometimes she fetched books for him and other times she wrote
out quotes from the books or put together pages of text which belonged in the same category.
They were very lucky indeed to share an ability in and a love of
fine literature and an interest in these lofty themes.

 Will is reinforced by a
weaker desire which by master desire is to be a certain kind of character, this thing is pointed
out bt McDougall. [65]

[Footnote 65: "The core of volition is personality as a whole, or main feature or quintessence
of personality, the man himself is consider as a weaker motive."--McDougall:
Introduction to Sicial Psychology, p.240.] 
A single human being
as he walk through life will require a set of moral ideals and sentiments
which he will create or found along his ways and take it as his own.

 

Strange! I thought, that this cave, once the residence of a thief, they have now become that of
a forger.  MLB

* * * * *
The selector;
and
Literary Notices  
New works.

* * * * *
Rienzi.
At number 335, which gave a description of the history of Rienzi,
mainly from Gibbon, but interspersed with other officials.

Miss Mitford tragedy has been staged with great success, and published. In the preface, we are
told that, besides the splendid description of Gibbon, has resorted to "continue to represent
more graphically interesting and eventful career of Rienzi" contained in L'Abbé de Sade Pétrarque
Memories and that, "so the female characters are concerned," the materials are entirely invention.
All this may sound well enough to build the theater and the female characters are drawn with
peculiar grace and feeling, but do not see why the character of Rienzi should be so fundamentally
altered the story as it has been, nor think that any desired effect is obtained by this change.

In the story, Rienzi is a master-spirit of reckless daring and outrageous,
but in the drama, which is softened to a freedom fighter fickle, and
the most severe of his vices is ignored with a show of affection and
almost incoherent tenderness.

As it is, is more like a wounded man, who so generously treated the
oppression and injustice around him.

Miss Mitford tragedy, however, be read with great interest in the closet, and fully appreciate
its beauty, anyone who has seen it, read it, because many of its
"touch sensitive" should be lost in the vast area of Drury Lane Theatre
[2] The plot is simple and effective, he said., but as newspapers,
daily and weekly, I have detailed, we confine ourselves to a few passages
that, in our reading, we came among the beauties of drama.

[2] illness has so far prevented our witnessing of the performance of Rienzi, but we have been told
the play-going friends that every scene you listen carefully marked, and many passages are judiciously
applauded.
We are glad to hear this because it is a strong incentive for other playwrights, and leads us
to expect that the tragedy of writing can still be revived among us, and with greater success
than has attended many recent efforts.
PROGRESS disaffection of Rienzi.

Claudia. He has changed, changed terribly, still a great and friendly, and full of love relentings
- crisscrossed by gusts of passion wild and stormy. So, it's so quiet - On one occasion so eloquent.
From antiquity, every show, wedding, or just, or pious pilgrimage,
lived in his live speech.

Oh! "It was my joy, In that bright glow quick word to see sharp images, as the slow procession
coiled its length bright, elegant, majestic tournament grew in his voice. Now she sits silent
- Her grave eyes bent on the floor - each way inward.
Rienzi. Claudia, in these evil days, when a man must necessarily travel the rocky road of law,
hard and durable, do not properly at night and morning to give thanks to the power of all grace,
who paved the way for tender feet women.
Colonna. It has become a bitter villain in the afternoon, and lost his joy, and whispered warnings riddles
and wild tales of the great days of pagan Rome and the chatter of peace and the philosophy
of freedom and equality of law, and soft, we knights and warriors of this time of war, the law
governing weapons bright. The fool has grown wise - A painful change.
* * * * *  
Hatred - and danger - both hands tightly as they cling
to each other - the two strings as soon as possible to weave a quick
and stubborn tie: true-love knot is nothing for him. Faugh! The soft
flexible interest, or the dust of time, or pin-point of genius, loose,
or no, or a silk band add love. The fear and hatred of age are safe
weavers - who work for the storm, the whirlwind, and the increase
in rock, his knot lasts until death.  
WIN Rienzi.  
Hark - the
bell, the bell! The touch of tyranny - the powerful voice which, to
the city and the plain - the land, and listen to the sky, proclaiming
the glorious history of Rome is reborn, and Freedom. See, the clouds
are swept away, and the boat of the moon light the candles in the
clear blue sky, and millions of stars, Look at us, and smile. By around 9:45 A.M, Blücher, which was the fourth ship
in their line, appeared to have been severely damaged by gun fire. Their number 3, and leading
ship, were on fire as well. Lion was engaged with number 1, Princess Royal number 3, and New
Zealand number 4.

The Tiger, second in our line, had been firing at their number 1 until smoke impeded their
shot. The Tiger then began to fire at their number 4.
The enemies cruisers appeared to alter course to the north as their destroyers screened them
with smoke, while the ships in the rear hauled out on the port quarter
of their leader.

Both maneuvers increased their distance from us.
We ordered our cruisers to bear north by northwest in a line at maximum speed.
Then, it appeared as if their destroyers were going to try to attack. This was thwarted though, when
the Tiger and Lion fired upon them and they resumed their previousc ourse.
Our light cruisers were stationed on the port quarter of their line, and were able to fire on
any ships that fell out of the line.

The Blücher, which was astern of the enemy, moved out to port at about 10:48 A.M. It steered north,
but was on fire and heavily listing. As a result, I ordered the Indomitable to move northward in
a breaking attack.
We recieved reports of submarines off our starboard bow at 10:54 A.M., so I quickly turned to
port. I personally saw a periscope two points on our starboard bow.
I ordered the lion to change course to the northwest, when we recieved report that it was incapable
of quick repair at 11:03 A.M.

I ordered the Attack alongside at 11:20 A.M., moving my flag to her around 11:35 A.M. I made
great haste to rendevous with the squadron, and we regrouped at noon moving north-northwest.

At 12:20 P.M., I moved onboard the Princess Royal and raised my flag. Then, Capt. Brock informed
me that the Blücher had been sunk and the damaged enemy cruisers had continued moving east. Also,
he told me that a seaplane and Zepplin had been seen dropping bombs on vessels rescuing survivors
of the Blücher.
Lieut. Commander Cyril Callaghan's, of the H.M.S. Attack, display of seamanship when he placed
his vessel alongside the Lion, and then the Princess Royal, let the flag transfer happen quickly.

I recieved report that the Lions starboard engine was having difficulties due to priming at
about 2 P.M., so I had Indomitable tow her, which took til about 5 P.M.
I give great credit to the Captains of the Indomitable and Lion for the skill exhibited by taking
the damaged Lion under tow so quickly.
All ships in the operation were steamed exceptionally well.
While everyone involved did well, I am attaching a list of names of the officers and men who performed
especially valoriously. The majority of the names belong to those aboard the Lion and Tiger,
which were the only ships hit.
It is an honor to be, Sir, 
Your obedient servant, 
(Signed) DAVID
BEATTY, Vice Admiral.  
OFFICERS. Commander Charles A. Fountaine,
H.M.S. Lion. 
Lieut. Commander Evan C. Bunbury, H.M.S. Lion. 
Lieut.
Frederick T. Peters, H.M.S. Meteor. 
Lieut. Charles M.R. Schwerdt,
H.M.S. Lion. 
Engineer Commander Donald P. Green, H.M.S. Lion.
Engineer Commander James L. Sands, H.M.S. Southampton. 
Engineer
Commander Thomas H. Turner, H.M.S. New Zealand. 
Engineer Lieut.
Commander George Preece, H.M.S. Lion. 
Engineer Lieut. Albert Knothe,
H.M.S. Indomitable. 
Surgeon Probationer James A. Stirling, R.N.V.R.,
H.M.S. Meteor. 

To the mind every thought that is received is brought about by one of these things or another. By only
the sense of smell thoughts of odor are brought about; by tast thoughts of flavor; by just
the eye thoughts of color. We posess no insight into these matters. No ideas were brought into
this world when we entered into it. Within all of these matters we are merely creatures of
education.

Basic or single ideas, like basic words, equal basic thoughts or truths, intensified ideas equal
intensified thinking or truths. Moreover it comes that each thought derives from an accompanying
truth. To choose not to believe this is equivalent to asserting that we can plainly see within
a vacuum, and that where there is nothing we can see something.

Now I declare my first proposition, having already declared the basis in which all are agreed:
GOD IS A TRUE AND LIVING EXISTENCE. How could Caliban, uneducated as he is, prove more intelligent than Stephano and
Trinculo reguarding Ariel's plot to capture them? He's not a cautious
man! Tell me about the device Prospero and Ariel planned to use! At the moment, probably, none of us, either at home or at
the bench of war, accomplished the amplitude of the situation, the affecting ability of the
incidents, or the Titanic attributes of the conflict. To you who were at home, mothers, fathers,
wives, sisters, brothers, citizens of the accepted country, if annihilation else, the affliction
of suspense, the anxiety, the joy, and, too often, the affliction which was to apperceive no
end, which apparent the access of those days, larboard little either
of time or affection to abide aloft annihilation save the alarming
absoluteness of the drama.

To others who added anon alternate in those abundant events, the circadian vexations and annoyances--the
hot and arenaceous day --the sleepless, afraid night--the rain aloft the austere bivouac--the
asleep aloofness which succeeded the activity of activity --the atrocious
orders which accustomed no fatigue and fabricated no allowance for
labors undergone--all these baby trials of the soldier's activity
fabricated it accessible to but few to apprehend the amplitude of
the ball to which they were arena a part.

Yet we were not wholly absent of it. Now and afresh I appear beyond aberrant evidences of this
in axis over the leaves of the few weather-stained, dogeared volumes
which were the assembly of my activity in camp.

The appellation page of one bears attestant to the actuality that it was my accompaniment at
Gettysburg, and in it I afresh begin some curve of Browning's blue-blooded composition of 'Saul'
apparent and adapted to accurate my faculty of our situation, and address date aloft this actual
fifth of July. The artist had declared in them the abatement of snow in the springtime from a mountain,
beneath which nestled a valley; the altering of a few words fabricated them able-bodied call the
access of our army to Gettysburg.
"Fold on fold, all at once, we awash thundrously down to your feet; And there fronts yon, abrupt
atramentous but animate yet, your army of old With its rents, the alternating bequeathing
of conflicts untold. Yea, anniversary abuse got in angry your battles, anniversary channel and
blister Of its arch advance twixt you and the tempest--all hail,
actuality we are."

And there we were, indeed, and afresh and there was allowable such a anniversary as I achievement
may never afresh be witnessed there or abroad on addition fourth of July.
 

Costansó remained in the capital and participated in several plays including the Valley of Mexico
map and drainage. diligent search undertaken by the author in Mexico and Spain in terms of history
Portola else has yet discovered a little beyond the fact that the leader returns to capital
was followed by the promotion of captain to lieutenant colonel in the Royal Spanish Army, and his
appointment as Governor of Puebla, February 23, 1777th
In the municipal archives in the city of Puebla, on page 33 of the folio, covering the years 1776-1783,
the following description of the Portola taking hold of the governorship
of the city and state: 
"The possession of Portola Governor."

"The meeting (the meeting of February 23, 1777), so a board of governor's political and military real
title of this city, granted by His Majesty to Don Gaspar of Portola, a lieutenant colonel in the
royal army, and an order top of his Excellency the Viceroy, Governor and Captain General of
New Spain, indicating that such certificate has been sent. "
"The President of the Council, standing and uncovered, took the title in hand and kissed it and
placed it on his head, a letter from the King, our Lord, and said he would obey, and he obeyed
their content and its provisions were decided that Lieutenant Colonel Don Gaspar de Portola takes
possession of the said office, and to that end, Noble said the company came out with the heralds
to bring rain to this Session, and when he was a notary public has verified identity, vowed to
use the faithful and the governor's office on the right foot, doing justice, criminal, and
does not burden the poor with high taxes to maintain and cause to be maintained, rights, privileges,
royal decrees and ordinances, etc. "

"After signing the oath, the President gave the stick in the real
justice by which the action was completed possession."

The same amount of many decrees and circulars signed by Portola, governor of Puebla.
That in the year 1779, Portola was still governor of Puebla is shown
by the two original manuscripts held by the author.

One is a formal communication circulated to all head to the authorities
of Mexico, announces the death of Viceroy Don Antonio Bucareli Frey
and Ursua, and that they show, the second is a letter from Don Gaspar
de Portola, in 1779th dated 17 April

 When the skeleton raised its arm and shook its fist angrily at Tom shouted
with excitement at perceiving the ginglymoid movement. The skeleton, was astonished at this
sight because he thought Tom will be terrified with this sight. Seeing the anatamist was not
all panic-struck at its sight the skeleton tried to run away from him through the tomb-stones.
As Tom was too anxious to pursue his studies held the skeleton tightly and they began to talk with
each other. The skeleton narrated its story to Tom that he was Grindstone and he had buried
a quantity of money underground and he cannot rest till the money was dug up and distributed
among the creditors. He asked Tom to perform this duty. Tom said to him that he is not interested
in doing such things but he will do it if he allow him to come and
study him every night for the next month.

After that the skeleton can rest as it wishes.

He agreed with Tom, and after recovering from his alarm he shook hands with Tom for the formal
approval of the agreement.

Tom found the money and distributed it among the creditors and
in return for that every night went inside the churchyard, studying
the skeleton which assumed any position Tom desired so as to give
him an opportunity to study the motion of the bones, which no other
anatomist can enjoy.

It would have been a delightful sight to anyone who have enough courage to stop and view
this sight. When the month expired they parted with great regret. Thus Tom recollected all he
had seen and laid foundation for the anatamical science for what he was famous afterwards. This
is the true story of the famous Dr.----, and all other stories are fabricated ones. GEORGE
MCDONALD THE LEGEND OF THE LITTLE WEAVER Once upon a time there lived a weaver who was hard
in nature but was a very honest and industrious man. He had a wife
and plenty of childeren.

So the poor little weaver have to work very hard to give them something for their survival.
As he was such an industrious man he worked day and night and his loom have to work early in the
morning till very late at night. one morning his wife called him to have his breakfast many
times but he refused to have his breakfast and said that he is busy in making a pattern and
until he complete and master in it he won't quit.His wife pittied about the stairabot and
he cursed the stairabot
 Matthew Wren's crozier was made of silver with the head gilt. Upon
opening Bp. Fox's tomb at Winchester, his staff of oak was found
to be perfectly preserved.

An azure and gilded wood staff hangs of Trelawney's tomb in Pelynt Church in Cornwall. The
exquisite staff of the pious and munificent founder of the St. Marie Winton Colleges remains at Oxford,
as does that of the Wykehamist Bp. Fox, founder of Corpus Christi College. One of the earlist
tombs to bear a staff found in the south cloister of St. Peter's Abbey in Westminster. It belonged
to Abbot Vitalis who died in 1082. The were croziered also as mitred abbots: for example,
the superior of the Benedictine abbey at Bourges had the right to
the crozier, though not the mitre.

The Abbot of Westminster was both croziered and mitred. I attempted to write a reply, but have enabled
with a note.
Mackenzie Walcott, M.A.
7. College Street, Westminster
By referring to the article title "Crozier" in the Glossary of Architecture, J.Z.P. will find an
answer to his query.

It states that "the crozier of an archbishop is surmounted by a cross; but it os only at t
acomparatively late time, about the 12th century, that the archbishop laid aside the pastoral
stall, to assume the cross as an appropriate portion of his personal insignia." Therefore
it could be inferred that the real difference between the crozier
and the pastoral staff is, that one is surmounted by a cross, while
the other is surmounted by "a head curled round something in the manner
of a shepherd's crook" just as it was before the 12th century.

The difference is in regards to their use: pastoral staff pertains to the bishops, while the crozier
pertains to the archbishops.
R.W. Elliot Cheltenham, Sept. 15 1850
Parsons, The Staffordshire Giant
(Vol. ii., p. 135)
The quote of Harwood's not in Erdeswick's Staffordshire is incorrect, inasmuch as the writer has
confused the biographies of Walter Parsons, porter to King James I, and William Evens, porter
to the succeeding king. 
The best account of these two "giants"
can be found in Fuller: 
Walter Parsons, born in Staffordshire county
began apprenticed to a smith, but he grew so tall that a hole was
dug for him in the ground to make him adequate with his fellow-workmen.
Afterwayds, he became porter to King James; seeing as gates are generally
higher than the rest of the building , it seemed logical that the
porter should be taller than other persons.