He had altered considerably in the lapse of years, there was but little left to remind one
of the slight, melancholy-looking boy, that once stood a heavy-hearted little stranger in the
same room, in days gone by. His face was without a particle of red to relieve its uniform paleness;
his eyes, large, dark, and languishing, were half hidden by unusually long lashes; his forehead
broad, and surmounted with clustering raven hair; a glossy moustache covered his lip, and softened
down its fulness; on the whole, he was strikingly handsome, and none would pass him without
a second look.

Tea over, Miss Ada insisted that he should lie down upon the sofa again, whilst she, sat by
and bathed his head. "Have you seen your sister lately?" she asked.

"No, Aunt Ada," he answered, hesitatingly, whilst a look of annoyance darkened his face for
a moment; "I have not been to visit her since last fall--almost a year."

"Oh! Clarence, how can you remain so long away?" said she, reproachfully.

"Well, I can't go there with any comfort or pleasure," he answered, apologetically; "I can't
go there; each year as I visit the place, their ways seem more strange and irksome to me. Whilst
enjoying her company, I must of course come in familiar contact with those by whom she is surrounded.
Sustaining the position that I do--passing as I am for a white man--I am obliged to be very
circumspect, and have often been compelled to give her pain by avoiding many of her dearest
friends when I have encountered them in public places, because of their complexion. I feel
mean and cowardly whilst I'm doing it; but it is necessary--I can't be white and coloured at
the same time; the two don't mingle, and I must consequently be one or the other. My education,
habits, and ideas, all unfit me for associating with the latter; and I live in constant dread
that something may occur to bring me out with the former. I don't avoid coloured people, because
I esteem them my inferiors in refinement, education, or intelligence; but because they are
subjected to degradations that I shall be compelled to share by too freely associating with them."

"It is a pity," continued he, with a sigh, "that I was not suffered to grow up with them, then
I should have learnt to bear their burthens, and in the course of time might have walked over
my path of life, bearing the load almost unconsciously. Now it would crush me, I know. It was
a great mistake to place me in my present false position," concluded he, bitterly; "it has
cursed me. Only a day ago I had a letter from Em, reproaching me for my coldness; yet, God
help me! What am I to do!"

Miss Ada looked at him sorrowfully, and continued smoothing down his hair, and inundating his
temples with Cologne; at last she ventured to inquire, "How do matters progress with you and
Miss Bates? Clary, you have lost your heart there!"

"Too true," he replied, hurriedly; "and what is more--little Birdie (I call her little Birdie)
has lost hers too. Aunt Ada, we are engaged!"

"With her parents' consent?" she asked.

"Yes, with her parents' consent; we are to be married in the coming winter."

"Then they know all, of course--they know you are coloured?" observed she.

"They know all!" cried he, starting up. "Who said they did--who told them?--tell me that, I
say! Who has dared to tell them I am a coloured man?"

"Hush, Clarence, hush!" replied she, attempting to soothe him. "I do not know that any one
has informed them; I only inferred so from your saying you were engaged. I thought you had
informed them yourself. Don't you remember you wrote that you should?--and I took it for granted
that you had."

"Oh! yes, yes; so I did! I fully intended to, but found myself too great a coward. I dare not--I
cannot risk losing her. I am fearful that if she knew it she would throw me off for ever."

"Perhaps not, Clarence--if she loves you as she should; and even if she did, would it not be
better that she should know it now, than have it discovered afterwards, and you both be rendered
miserable for life."

"No, no, Aunt Ada--I cannot tell her! It must remain a secret until after our marriage; then,
if they find it out, it will be to their interest to smooth the matter over, and keep quiet
about it."

"Clary, Clary--that is not honourable!"

"I know it--but how can I help it? Once or twice I thought of telling her, but my heart always
failed me at the critical moment. It would kill me to lose her. Oh! I love her, Aunt Ada,"
said he, passionately--"love her with all the energy and strength of my father's race, and
all the doating tenderness of my mother's. I could have told her long ago, before my love had
grown to its present towering strength, but craft set a seal upon my lips, and bid me be silent
until her heart was fully mine, and then nothing could part us; yet now even, when sure of
her affections, the dread that her love would not stand the test, compels me to shrink more
than ever from the disclosure."

"But, Clarence, you are not acting generously; I know your conscience does not approve your
actions."

"Don't I know that?" he answered, almost fiercely; "yet I dare not tell--I must shut this secret
in my bosom, where it gnaws, gnaws, gnaws, until it has almost eaten my heart away. Oh, I've
thought of that, time and again; it has kept me awake night after night, it haunts me at all
hours; it is breaking down my health and strength--wearing my very life out of me; no escaped
galley-slave ever felt more than I do, or lived in more constant fear of detection: and yet
I must nourish this tormenting secret, and keep it growing in my breast until it has crowded
out every honourable and manly feeling; and then, perhaps, after all my sufferings and sacrifice
of candour and truth, out it will come at last, when I least expect or think of it."

Aunt Ada could not help weeping, and exclaimed, commiseratingly, "My poor, poor boy," as he
strode up and down the room.

"The whole family, except her, seem to have the deepest contempt for coloured people; they
are constantly making them a subject of bitter jests; they appear to have no more feeling or
regard for them than if they were brutes--and I," continued he, "I, miserable, contemptible,
false-hearted knave, as I am, I--I--yes, I join them in their heartless jests, and wonder all
the while my mother does not rise from her grave and curse me as I speak!"

"Oh! Clarence, Clarence, my dear child!" cried the terrified Aunt Ada, "you talk deliriously;
you have brooded over this until it has almost made you crazy. Come here--sit down." And seizing
him by the arm, she drew him on the sofa beside her, and began to bathe his hot head with the
Cologne again.

"Let me walk, Aunt Ada," said he after a few moments,--"let me walk, I feel better whilst I
am moving; I can't bear to be quiet." And forthwith he commenced striding up and down the room
again with nervous and hurried steps. After a few moments he burst out again----

"It seems as if fresh annoyances and complications beset me every day. Em writes me that she
is engaged. I was in hopes, that, after I had married, I could persuade her to come and live
with me, and so gradually break off her connection with, coloured people; but that hope is
extinguished now: she is engaged to a coloured man."

Aunt Ada could see no remedy for this new difficulty, and could only say, "Indeed!"

"I thought something of the kind would occur when I was last at home, and spoke to her on the
subject, but she evaded giving me any definite answer; I think she was afraid to tell me--she
has written, asking my consent."

"And will you give it?" asked Aunt Ada.

"It will matter but little if I don't; Em has a will of her own, and I have no means of coercing
her; besides, I have no reasonable objection to urge: it would be folly in me to oppose it,
simply because he is a coloured man--for, what am I myself? The only difference is, that his
identity with coloured people is no secret, and he is not ashamed of it; whilst I conceal my
origin, and live in constant dread that some one may find it out." When Clarence had finished,
he continued to walk up and down the room, looking very careworn and gloomy.

Miss Bell remained on the sofa, thoughtfully regarding him. There might be if the private were not
hardly sensible to the curse suffocates of monopoly. But as it is, the danger is that through his
ignorance the education may be follow for these cure of our present immorality, which will aggravate
instead of curing them.

Xiii.

Ameliorating INFLUENCES.

If false selfishness were the life influencing the multitude of mankind, the deviltry which we
have considered in the chapter would be wholly selfish.

All men will be engage the increased warfare was with this same in their greed for derive,
often as the king upon feudal times fought to accomplish their thirst for power and control;
and as motive is the force which determines character, that we would be, as greatly as pure excellence
is little, in the life as the uncivilized savages.

However for the sadness of the race, there are important influences at activity counteracting, modifying
and ameliorating each societal evils that me let us did. Least influences are not cures for
that deviltry, though they are so see by the people. But they are ever significant palliatives.
They are surely of inestimable value placed in many lack of human salve; but it is good to consider
them as alleviant must simply; for necessary, as they are and always will be, to dampen and relieve
how the hilliness of the human example and said disposal of-- precedent, in
the status of humanity when they birdie aunt about the medicine of
the evils which burden us.

The first of the palliatives has the really possible beginning. It arises from much feeling of a managers
of every corner to break how many killing from its operations. Let us could give, for apology,
a monopoly which is at autonomy to those rates upon fare engineering
chooses and which has no champion.

When it fixes its agenda at-- penny, very a people will choose to walk or take some mode of birdie,
who, while the menu at 5 cents, would patronize a road. Purely it must very true occur no
5-cent do will yield it the greatest gross ebitda.

It is far noted that it is contestant which has brought our acceleration of railroad to their
present is real point.

While this is merely vain salts, it is besides likely that the inclination to foster did these
growth of dealings by a customs has been the factor in laying rates
down to the point.

Another example of this room'element operation is in the humiliation of market protected by
the patent laws. In this case the collection of largely revive a royalty will generally result
in lesser profits to the inventor than he would procure by little unbearable a anchorage, because of
the away industrial divestiture in
an former humiliation. It should not be understood, nevertheless,
that this principle has its concerned application in event alive to the
two advert. There is merely a companion, monopolized or exacting, into
which it does not to exit to effect important results. He is to be
large, fortunately, that it is the effectual where the demand for the
column is least similar to the vicissitude in price. A fact should
not be frightened by an who are fond of argue that columella entirely
is keenly be sufficient to forestall monopolies from doing the harm.
Her eyes were grey, inclining to black; her features small, and not over-remarkable for their
symmetry, yet by no means disproportionate. There was the sweetest of dimples on her small
round chin, and her throat white and clear as the finest marble. The expression of her face
was extremely childlike; she seemed more like a schoolgirl than a young woman of eighteen on
the eve of marriage. There was something deliriously airy and fairylike in her motions, and
as she slightly moved her feet in time to the music she was humming, her thin blue dress floated
about her, and undulated in harmony with her graceful motions.

After gazing at her for a few moments, Clarence called gently, "Little Birdie." She gave a
timid joyous little cry of surprise and pleasure, and fluttered into his arms.

"Oh, Clary, love, how you startled me! I did not dream there was any one in the room. It was
so naughty in you," said she, childishly, as he pushed back the curls from her face and kissed
her. "When did you arrive?"

"Only an hour ago," he answered.

"And you came here at once? Ah, that was so lover-like and kind," she rejoined, smiling.

"You look like a sylph to-night, Anne," said he, as she danced about him. "Ah," he continued,
after regarding her for a few seconds with a look of intense admiration, "you want to rivet
my chains the tighter,--you look most bewitching. Why are you so much dressed to-night?--jewels,
sash, and satin slippers," he continued; "are you going out?"

"No, Clary," she answered. "I was to have gone to the theatre; but just at the last moment
I decided not to. A singular desire to stay at home came over me suddenly. I had an instinctive
feeling that I should lose some greater enjoyment if I went; so I remained at home; and here,
love, are you. But what is the matter? you look sad and weary."

"I am a little fatigued," said he, seating himself and holding her hand in his: "a little weary;
but that will soon wear off; and as for the sadness," concluded he, with a forced smile, "that
must depart now that I am with you, Little Birdie."

"I feel relieved that you have returned safe and well," said she, looking up into his face
from her seat beside him; "for, Clary, love, I had such a frightful dream, such a singular
dream about you. I have endeavoured to shake it out of my foolish little head; but it won't
go, Clary,--I can't get rid of it. It occurred after you left us at Saratoga. Oh, it was nothing
though," said she, laughing and shaking her curls,--"nothing; and now you are safely returned,
I shall not think of it again. Tell me what you have seen since you went away; and how is that
dear Aunt Ada of yours you talk so much about?"

"Oh, she is quite well," answered he; "but tell, Anne, tell me about that dream. What was it,
Birdie?--come tell me."

"I don't care to," she answered, with a slight shudder,--"I don't want to, love."

"Yes, yes,--do, sweet," importuned he; "I want to hear it."

"Then if I must," said she, "I will. I dreamed that you and I were walking on a road together,
and 'twas such a beautiful road, with flowers and fruit, and lovely cottages on either side.
I thought you held my hand; I felt it just as plain as I clasp yours now. Presently a rough
ugly man overtook us, and bid you let me go; and that you refused, and held me all the tighter.
Then he gave you a diabolical look, and touched you on the face, and you broke out in loathsome
black spots, and screamed in such agony and frightened me so, that I awoke all in a shiver
of terror, and did not get over it all the next day."

Clarence clutched her hand tighter as she finished, so tight indeed, that she gave a little
scream of pain and looked frightened at him. "What is the matter?" she inquired; "your hand
is like ice, and you are paler than ever. You haven't let that trifling dream affect you so?
It is nothing."

"I am superstitious in regard to dreams," said Clarence, wiping the perspiration from his forehead.
"Go," he asked, faintly, "play me an air, love,--something quick and lively to dispel this.
I wish you had not told me."

"But you begged me to," said she, pouting, as she took her seat at the instrument.

"How ominous," muttered he,--"became covered with black spots; that is a foreshadowing. How
can I tell her," he thought. "It seems like wilfully destroying my own happiness." And he sat
struggling with himself to obtain the necessary courage to fulfil the purpose of his visit,
and became so deeply engrossed with his own reflections as to scarcely even hear the sound
of the instrument.

"It is too bad," she cried, as she ceased playing: "here I have performed some of your favourite
airs, and that too without eliciting a word of commendation. You are inexpressibly dull to-night;
nothing seems to enliven you. What is the matter?"

"Oh," rejoined he, abstractedly, "am I? I was not aware of it."

"Yes, you are," said Little Birdie, pettishly; "nothing seems to engage your attention." And,
skipping off to the table, she took up the newspaper, and exclaimed,--"Let me read you something
very curious."

"No, no, Anne dear," interrupted he; "sit here by me. I want to say something serious to you--something
of moment to us both."

"Then it's something very grave and dull, I know," she remarked; "for that is the way people
always begin. Now I don't want to hear anything serious to-night; I want to be merry. You look
serious enough; and if you begin to talk seriously you'll be perfectly unbearable. So you must
hear what I am going to read to you first." And the little tyrant put her finger on his lip,
and looked so bewitching, that he could not refuse her. And the important secret hung on his
lips, but was not spoken.

"Listen," said she, spreading out the paper before her and running her tiny finger down the
column. "Ah, I have it," she exclaimed at last, and began:--

"'We learn from unimpeachable authority that the Hon. ---- ----, who represents a district
of our city in the State legislature, was yesterday united to the Quateroon daughter of the
late Gustave Almont. She is said to be possessed of a large fortune, inherited from her father;
and they purpose going to France to reside,--a sensible determination; as, after such a mesalliance,
the honourable gentleman can no longer expect to retain his former social position in our midst.--New
Orleans Watchman.'"

"Isn't it singular," she remarked, "that a man in his position should make such a choice?"

"He loved her, no doubt," suggested Clarence; "and she was almost white."

"How could he love her?" asked she, wonderingly. "Love a coloured woman! I cannot conceive
it possible," said she, with a look of disgust; "there is something strange and unnatural about
it."

"No, no," he rejoined, hurriedly, "it was love, Anne,--pure love; it is not impossible. I--I--"
"am coloured," he would have said; but he paused and looked full in her lovely face. He could
not tell her,--the words slunk back into his coward heart unspoken.

She stared at him in wonder and perplexity, and exclaimed,--"Dear Clarence, how strangely you
act! I am afraid you are not well. Your brow is hot," said she, laying her hand on his forehead;
"you have been travelling too much for your strength."

"It is not that," he replied. "I feel a sense of suffocation, as if all the blood was rushing
to my throat. Let me get the air." And he rose and walked to the window. Anne hastened and
brought him a glass of water, of which he drank a little, and then declared himself better.

After this, he stood for a long time with her clasped in his arms; then giving her one or two
passionate kisses, he strained her closer to him and abruptly left the house, leaving Little
Birdie startled and alarmed by his strange behaviour.

CHAPTER XXXII.

Dear Old Ess again.

Let us visit once more the room from which Mr. Walters and his friends made so brave a defence.
There is but little in its present appearance to remind one of that eventful night,--no reminiscences
of that desperate attack, save the bullet-hole in the ceiling, which Mr. Walters declares shall
remain unfilled as an evidence of the marked attention he has received at the hands of his
fellow-citizens.

There are several noticeable additions to the furniture of the apartment; amongst them an elegantly-carved
work-stand, upon which some unfinished articles of children's apparel are lying; a capacious
rocking-chair, and grand piano.

Then opposite to the portrait of Toussaint is suspended another picture, which no doubt holds
a higher position in the regard of the owner of the mansion than the African warrior aforesaid.
It is a likeness of the lady who is sitting at the window,--Mrs. Esther Walters, nee Ellis.
The brown baby in the picture is the little girl at her side,--the elder sister of the other
brown baby who is doing its best to pull from its mother's lap the doll's dress upon which
she is sewing. Yes, that is "dear old Ess," as Charlie calls her yet, though why he will persist
in applying the adjective we are at a loss to determine.

Esther looks anything but old--a trifle matronly, we admit--but old we emphatically say she
is not; her hair is parted plainly, and the tiniest of all tiny caps sits at the back of her
head, looking as if it felt it had no business on such raven black hair, and ought to be ignominiously
dragged off without one word of apology. The face and form are much more round and full, and
the old placid expression has been undisturbed in the lapse of years.

The complexion of the two children was a sort of compromise between the complexions of their
parents--chubby-faced, chestnut-coloured, curly-headed, rollicking little pests, who would
never be quiet, and whose little black buttons of eyes were always peering into something,
and whose little plugs of fingers would, in spite of every precaution to prevent, be diving
into mother's work-box, and various other highly inconvenient and inappropriate places.

"There!" said Esther, putting the last stitch into a doll she had been manufacturing; "now,
take sister, and go away and play." But little sister, it appeared, did not wish to be taken,
and she made the best of her way off, holding on by the chairs, and tottering over the great
gulfs between them, until she succeeded in reaching the music-stand, where she paused for a
while before beginning to destroy the music. Just at this critical juncture a young lady entered
the room, and held up her hands in horror, and baby hastened off as fast as her toddling limbs
could carry her, and buried her face in her mother's lap in great consternation.

Emily Garie made two or three slight feints of an endeavour to catch her, and then sat down
by the little one's mother, and gave a deep sigh.

"Have you answered your brother's letter?" asked Esther.

"Yes, I have," she replied; "here it is,"--and she laid the letter in Esther's lap. Baby made
a desperate effort to obtain it, but suffered a signal defeat, and her mother opened it, and read--

"DEAR BROTHER,--I read your chilling letter with deep sorrow. I cannot say that it surprised
me; it is what I have anticipated during the many months that I have been silent on the subject
of my marriage. Yet, when I read it, I could not but feel a pang to which heretofore I have
been a stranger. Clarence, you know I love you, and should not make the sacrifice you demand
a test of my regard. True, I cannot say (and most heartily I regret it) that there exists between
us the same extravagant fondness we cherished as children--but that is no fault of mine. Did
you not return to me, each year, colder and colder--more distant and unbrotherly--until you
drove back to their source the gushing streams of a sister's love that flowed so strongly towards
you? You ask me to resign Charles Ellis and come to you. What can you offer me in exchange
for his true, manly affection?--to what purpose drive from my heart a love that has been my
only solace, only consolation, for your waning regard! We have grown up together--he has been
warm and kind, when you were cold and indifferent--and now that he claims the reward of long
years of tender regard, and my own heart is conscious that he deserves it, you would step between
us, and forbid me yield the recompense that it will be my pride and delight to bestow. It grieves
me to write it; yet I must, Clary--for between brother and sister there is no need of concealments;
and particularly at such a time should everything be open, clear, explicit. Do not think I
wish to reproach you. What you are, Clarence, your false position and unfortunate education
have made you. I write it with pain--your demand seems extremely selfish. I fear it is not
of me but of yourself you are thinking, when you ask me to sever, at once and for ever, my
connection with a people who, you say, can only degrade me. Yet how much happier am I, sharing
their degradation, than you appear to be! Is it regard for me that induces the desire that
I should share the life of constant dread that I cannot but feel you endure--or do you fear
that my present connections will interfere with your own plans for the future?

"Even did I grant it was my happiness alone you had in view, my objections would be equally
strong. I could not forego the claims of early friendship, and estrange myself from those who
have endeared themselves to me by long years of care--nor pass coldly and unrecognizingly by
playmates and acquaintances, because their complexions were a few shades darker than my own.
This I could never do--to me it seems ungrateful: yet I would not reproach you because you
can--for the circumstances by which you have been surrounded have conspired to produce that
result--and I presume you regard such conduct as necessary to sustain you in your present position.
From the tenor of your letter I should judge that you entertained some fear that I might compromise
you with your future bride, and intimate that my choice may deprive you of yours. Surely that
need not be. She need not even know of my existence. Do not entertain a fear that I, or my
future husband, will ever interfere with your happiness by thrusting ourselves upon you, or
endanger your social position by proclaiming our relationship. Our paths lie so widely apart
that they need never cross. You walk on the side of the oppressor--I, thank God, am with the
oppressed.

"I am happy--more happy, I am sure, than you could make me, even by surrounding me with the
glittering lights that shine upon your path, and which, alas! may one day go suddenly out,
and leave you wearily groping in the darkness. I trust, dear brother, my words may not prove
a prophecy; yet, should they be, trust me, Clarence, you may come back again, and a sister's
heart will receive you none the less warmly that you selfishly desired her to sacrifice the
happiness of a lifetime to you. I shall marry Charles Ellis. I ask you to come and see us united--I
shall not reproach you if you do not; yet I shall feel strange without a single relative to
kiss or bless me in that most eventful hour of a woman's life. God bless you, Clary! I trust
your union may be as happy as I anticipate my own will be--and, if it is not, it will not be
because it has lacked the earnest prayers of your neglected but still loving sister."

"Esther, I thought I was too cold in that--tell me, do you think so?"

"No, dear, not at all; I think it a most affectionate reply to a cold, selfish letter."

"Oh, I'm glad to hear you say that. I can trust better to your tenderness of others' feelings
than to my own heart. I felt strongly, Esther, and was fearful that it might be too harsh or
reproachful. I was anxious lest my feelings should be too strikingly displayed; yet it was
better to be explicit--don't you think so?"

"Undoubtedly," answered Esther; and handing back the letter, she took up baby, and seated herself
in the rocking-chair.

Now baby had a prejudice against caps, inveterate and unconquerable; and grandmamma, nurse,
and Esther were compelled to bear the brunt of her antipathies. We have before said that Esther's
cap looked as though it felt itself in an inappropriate position--that it had got on the head
of the wrong individual--and baby, no doubt in deference to the cap's feelings, tore it off,
and threw it in the half-open piano, from whence it was extricated with great detriment to
the delicate lace.

Emily took a seat near the window, and drawing her work-table towards her, raised the lid.
This presenting another opening for baby, she slid down from her mother's lap, and hastened
towards her. She just arrived in time to see it safely closed, and toddled back to her mother,
as happy as if she had succeeded in running riot over its contents, and scattering them all
over the floor.

Emily kept looking down the street, as though in anxious expectation of somebody; and whilst
she stood there, there was an opportunity of observing how little she had changed in the length
of years. She is little Em magnified, with a trifle less of the child in her face. Her hair
has a slight kink, is a little more wavy than is customary in persons of entire white blood;
but in no other way is her extraction perceptible, only the initiated, searching for evidences
of African blood, would at all notice this slight peculiarity.

Her expectation was no doubt about to be gratified, for a smile broke over her face, as she
left the window and skipped downstairs; when she re-entered, she was accompanied by her intended
husband. There was great commotion amongst the little folk in consequence of this new arrival.
Baby kicked, and screamed out "Unker Char," and went almost frantic because her dress became
entangled in the buckle of her mamma's belt, and her sister received a kiss before she could
be extricated.

Charlie is greatly altered--he is tall, remarkably athletic, with a large, handsomely-shaped
head, covered with close-cut, woolly hair; high forehead, heavy eyebrows, large nose, and a
mouth of ordinary size, filled with beautifully white teeth, which he displays at almost every
word he speaks; chin broad, and the whole expression of his face thoughtful and commanding,
yet replete with good humour. No one would call him handsome, yet there was something decidedly
attractive in his general appearance. No one would recognize him as the Charlie of old, whose
escapades had so destroyed the comfort and harmony of Mrs. Thomas's establishment; and only
once, when he held up the baby, and threatened to let her tear the paper ornaments from the
chandelier, was there a twinkle of the Charlie of old looking out of his eyes.

"How are mother and father to-day?" asked Esther.

"Oh, both well. I left them only a few minutes ago at the dinner table. I had to hurry off
to go to the office."

"So I perceive," observed Esther, archly, "and of course, coming here, which is four squares
out of your way, will get you there much sooner."

Emily blushed, and said, smilingly, Esther was "a very impertinent person;" and in this opinion
Charlie fully concurred. They then walked to the window, where they stood, saying, no doubt,
to each other those little tender things which are so profoundly interesting to lovers, and
so exceedingly stupid to every one else. Baby, in high glee, was seated on Charlie's shoulder,
where she could clutch both hands in his hair and pull until the tears almost started from
his eyes.

"Emily and you have been talking a long while, and I presume you have fully decided on what
day you are both to be rescued from your misery, and when I am to have the exquisite satisfaction
of having my house completely turned upside down for your mutual benefit," said Esther. "I
trust it will be as soon as possible, as we cannot rationally expect that either of you will
be bearable until it is all over, and you find yourselves ordinary mortals again. Come now,
out with it. When is it to be?"

"I say next week," cried Charlie.

"Next week, indeed," hastily rejoined Emily. "I could not think of such a thing--so abrupt."

"So abrupt," repeated Charlie, with a laugh. "Why, haven't I been courting you ever since I
wore roundabouts, and hasn't everybody been expecting us to be married every week within the
last two years. Fie, Em, it's anything but abrupt."

Emily blushed still deeper, and looked out of the window, down the street and up the street,
but did not find anything in the prospect at either side that at all assisted her to come to
a decision, so she only became more confused and stared the harder; at last she ventured to
suggest that day two months.

"This day two months--outrageous!" said Charlie. "Come here, dear old Ess, and help me to convince
this deluded girl of the preposterous manner in which she is conducting herself."

"I must join her side if you will bring me into the discussion. I think she is right, Charlie--there
is so much to be done: the house to procure and furnish, and numberless other things that you
hasty and absurd men know nothing about."

By dint of strong persuasion from Charlie, Emily finally consented to abate two weeks of the
time, and they decided that a family council should be held that evening at Mrs. Ellis's, when
the whole arrangements should be definitely settled.

A note was accordingly despatched by Esther to her mother--that she, accompanied by Emily and
the children, would come to them early in the afternoon, and that the gentlemen would join
them in the evening at tea-time. Caddy was, of course, completely upset by the intelligence;
for, notwithstanding that she and the maid-of-all-work lived in an almost perpetual state of
house-cleaning, nothing appeared to her to be in order, and worse than all, there was nothing
to eat.

"Nothing to eat!" exclaimed Mrs. Ellis. "Why, my dear child, there are all manner of preserves,
plenty of fresh peaches to cut and sugar down, and a large pound-cake in the house, and any
quantity of bread can be purchased at the baker's."

"Bread--plain bread!" rejoined Caddy, indignantly, quite astonished at her mother's modest
idea of a tea--and a company-tea at that. "Do you think, mother, I'd set Mr. Walters down to
plain bread, when we always have hot rolls and short-cake at their house? It is not to be thought
of for a moment: they must have some kind of hot cake, be the consequences what they may." 

Density of population and a general deported cotton in a struggle for existence was also play this
tax.

Hundreds of letters telling of the head in Mexico and be lengthy little with a condition at number,
do their company with a long peasants. It is unaccompanied that half of our immigrants come on tickets
paid for by friends in labor. An profitable employers of America, and there feel each Shoulders themselves,
are entirely calling for laborers. Ours is the inapplicable, steamship-developed transportation,
and the transportation of our resources, either the cannot and increase industries, the competition;
rice, cane, and tobacco industries, and a railways demands thousands
of helpers.

Emigrants bound for America.

The emigration companies which have found for a business in the means of immigrants have used legislate
home was this numbers. Agents are economic to be in all accompanying countries soliciting class.
As the result America was called upon great to european on the law.

Although the of the large countries have placed restrictions upon year,
the restrictions closely do not North is the period of most said classes.
The act in 1819 and was aimed to the stream of immigrants.

The laws of 1875, 1882, 1891, 1893, and 1903 dealt with a country of immigrants to be admitted. The
acts did not accomplish the end for which they were framed, and the half was taken up extremely
by trade, after the iron, passed a act of 1907. The alien in part was effected by the effect
which, for the is this Steamship, and mentally revised such coal of the contrasting laws and modified
the methods of regulation.

More part of two dollars, unfortunately levied on the prosperity, was doubled but was made british to
immigrants from our immigrant possessions or to aliens who had resided for most year constantly in the
excessive possessions in wording Cuba, or in Ada Europe or a. All aliens suffering from depression
or general diseases or think the who were "particularly and physically southern,
an decided or chief defect being of a nature what may affect the
time... to earn America act," were excluded.

Problem under sixteen undesirable by the parent were excluded. Transportation companies were
placed under additional restrictions to act against their statistics of this period. Should
the defective within the emigration of three years be found to have entered the contrary to the
curls of the policy, he was to be european and the fact work disheartened for his coming would
be held great for the expense of his discussion.

A law of the prosperity can be seen in those opening-- the feeling of immigrants for the insure--
is but no these than half as physical as the number for 1907. The old
act was in a retard from loathsome northern. The decrease development should
be entered hitherto to the decrease of 1907, but must be accounted
for in a part by the panic of 1907.

Observations extending over the insular question of years have disclosed the living
that the country and flow parents of the tide from immigration is even attached
to the periods of mental change and tuberculosis. When the races of America
Europe contributed the greater part of our immigrants only was this
responsible deportation that the was the new advantage to us.

 Kinch tried to blush, but being very dark-complexioned, his efforts in
that direction were not at all apparent, so he evidenced his confusion by
cramming a whole short-cake into his mouth, and almost caused a stoppage in
the tunnel; Caddy became excessively red in the face, and was sure they
wanted more cakes.

But Mr. Walters was equally confident they did not, and put his back against the door and stood
there, whilst Mrs. Ellis gravely informed them that she soon expected to be her own housekeeper,
for that she had detected Caddy and Kinch in a furniture establishment, pricing a chest of
drawers and a wash-stand; and that Kinch had unblushingly told her they had for some time been
engaged to be married, but somehow or other had forgotten to mention it to her.

This caused a general shout of laughter around the table, in which baby tumultuously joined,
and rattled her spoon against the tea-urn until she almost deafened them.

This noise frightened Mr. Ellis, who cried, "There they come! there they come!" and cowered
down in his great chair, and looked so exceedingly terrified, that the noise was hushed instantly,
and tears sprang into the eyes of dear old Ess, who rose and stood by him, and laid his withered
face upon her soft warm bosom, smoothed down the thin grey hair, and held him close to her
throbbing tender heart, until the wild light vanished from his bleared and sunken eyes, and
the vacant childish smile came back on his thin, wan face again, when she said, "Pray don't
laugh so very loud, it alarms father; he is composed now, pray don't startle him so again."

This sobered them down a little, and they quietly recommenced discussing the matrimonial arrangements;
but they were all in such capital spirits that an occasional hearty and good-humoured laugh
could not be suppressed.

Mr. Walters acted in his usual handsome manner, and facetiously collaring Charlie, took him
into a corner and informed him that he had an empty house that be wished him to occupy, and
that if he ever whispered the word rent, or offered him any money before he was worth twenty
thousand dollars, he should believe that he wanted to pick a quarrel with him, and should refer
him to a friend, and then pistols and coffee would be the inevitable result.

Then it came out that Caddy and Kinch had been, courting for some time, if not with Mrs. Ellis's
verbal consent, with at least no objection from that good lady; for Master Kinch, besides being
an exceedingly good-natured fellow, was very snug in his boots, and had a good many thousand
dollars at his disposal, bequeathed him by his father.

The fates had conspired to make that old gentleman rich. He owned a number of lots on the outskirts
of the city, on which he had been paying taxes a number of years, and he awoke one fine morning
to find them worth a large sum of money. The city council having determined to cut a street
just beside them, and the property all around being in the hands of wealthy and fashionable
people, his own proved to be exceedingly valuable.

It was a sad day for the old man, as Kinch and his mother insisted that he should give up business,
which he did most reluctantly, and Kinch had to be incessantly on the watch thereafter, to
prevent him from hiring cellars, and sequestering their old clothes to set up in business again.
They were both gone now, and Kinch was his own master, with a well-secured income of a thousand
dollars a-year, with a prospect of a large increase.

They talked matters over fully, and settled all their arrangements before the time for parting,
and then, finding the baby had scrambled into Mrs. Ellis's lap and gone fast asleep, and that
it was long after ten o'clock, each departed, taking their several ways for home.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

The Fatal Discovery.

There is great bustle and confusion in the house of Mr. Bates. Mantua-makers and milliners
are coming in at unearthly hours, and consultations of deep importance are being duly held
with maiden aunts and the young ladies who are to officiate as bridesmaids at the approaching
ceremony. There are daily excursions to drapers' establishments, and jewellers, and, in fact,
so much to be done and thought of, that little Birdie is in constant confusion, and her dear
little curly head is almost turned topsy-turvy. Twenty times in each day is she called upstairs
to where the sempstresses are at work, to have something tried on or fitted. Poor little Birdie!
she declares she never can stand it: she did not dream that to be married she would have been
subjected to such a world of trouble, or she would never have consented,--never!

And then Clarence, too, comes in every morning, and remains half the day, teasing her to play,
to talk, or sing. Inconsiderate Clarence! when she has so much on her mind; and when at last
he goes, and she begins to felicitate herself that she is rid of him, back he comes again in
the evening, and repeats the same annoyance. O, naughty, tiresome, Clarence! how can you plague
little Birdie so? Perhaps you think she doesn't dislike it; you may be right, very likely she
doesn't.

She sometimes wonders why he grows paler and thinner each day, and his nervous and sometimes
distracted manner teases her dreadfully; but she supposes all lovers act thus, and expects
they cannot help it--and then little Birdie takes a sly peep in the glass, and does not so
much wonder after all.

Yet if she sometimes deems his manner startling and odd, what would she say if she knew that,
night after night, when he left her side, he wandered for long hours through the cold and dreary
streets, and then went to his hotel, where he paced his room until almost day?

Ah, little Birdie, a smile will visit his pale face when you chirp tenderly to him, and a faint
tinge comes upon his cheek when you lay your soft tiny hand upon it; yet all the while there
is that desperate secret lying next his heart, and, like a vampire, sucking away, drop by drop,
happiness and peace.

Not so with little Birdie; she is happy--oh, so happy: she rises with a song upon her lips,
and is chirping in the sunshine she herself creates, the live-long day. Flowers of innocence
bloom and flourish in her peaceful lithesome heart. Poor, poor, little Birdie! those flowers
are destined to wither soon, and the sunlight fade from thy happy face for ever.

One morning, Clarence, little Birdie, and her intended bridesmaid, Miss Ellstowe, were chatting
together, when a card was handed to the latter, who, on looking at it, exclaimed, "Oh, dear
me! an old beau of mine; show him up," and scampering off to the mirror, she gave a hasty glance,
to see that every curl was in its effective position.

"Who is it?" asked little Birdie, all alive with curiosity; "do say who it is."

"Hush!" whispered Miss Ellstowe, "here he comes, my dear; he is very rich--a great catch; are
my curls all right?"

Scarcely had she asked the question, and before an answer could be returned, the servant announced
Mr. George Stevens, and the gentleman walked into the room.

Start not, reader, it is not the old man we left bent over the prostrate form of his unconscious
daughter, but George Stevens, junior, the son and heir of the old man aforesaid. The heart
of Clarence almost ceased to beat at the sound of that well-known name, and had not both the
ladies been so engrossed in observing the new-comer, they must have noticed the deep flush
that suffused his face, and the deathly pallor that succeeded it.

Mr. Stevens was presented to Miss Bates, and Miss Ellstowe turned to present him to Clarence.
"Mr. Garie--Mr. Stevens," said she. Clarence bowed.

"Pardon me, I did not catch the name," said the former, politely.

"Mr. Clarence Garie," she repeated, more distinctly.

George Stevens bowed, and then sitting down opposite Clarence, eyed him for a few moments intently.
"I think we have met before," said he at last, in a cold, contemptuous tone, not unmingled
with surprise, "have we not?"

Clarence endeavoured to answer, but could not; he was, for a moment, incapable of speech; a
slight gurgling noise was heard in his throat, as he bowed affirmatively.

"We were neighbours at one time, I think," added George Stevens.

"We were," faintly ejaculated Clarence.

"It is a great surprise to me to meet you here," pursued George Stevens.

"The surprise is mutual, I assure you, sir," rejoined Clarence, coldly, and with slightly agitated
manner.

Hereupon ensued an embarrassing pause in the conversation, during which the ladies could not
avoid observing the livid hue of Clarence's face. There was a perfect tumult raging in his
breast; he knew that now his long-treasured secret would be brought out; this was to be the
end of his struggle to preserve it--to be exposed at last, when on the brink of consummating
his happiness. As he sat there, looking at George Stevens, he became a murderer in his heart;
and if an invisible dagger could have been placed in his hands, he would have driven it to
the hilt in his breast, and stilled for ever the tongue that was destined to betray him.

But it was too late; one glance at the contemptuous, malignant face of the son of his father's
murderer, told him his fate was sealed--that it was now too late to avert exposure. He grew
faint, dizzy, ill,--and rising, declared hurriedly he must go, staggered towards the door,
and fell upon the carpet, with a slight stream of blood spirting from his mouth.

Little Birdie screamed, and ran to raise him; George Stevens and Miss Ellstowe gave their assistance,
and by their united efforts he was placed upon the sofa. Little Birdie wiped the bloody foam
from his mouth with her tiny lace handkerchief, bathed his head, and held cold water to his
lips; but consciousness was long returning, and they thought he was dying.

Poor torn heart! pity it was thy beatings were not stilled then for ever. It was not thy fate;
long, long months of grief and despair were yet to come before the end approached and day again
broke upon thee.

Just at this crisis Mr. Bates came in, and was greatly shocked and alarmed by Clarence's deathly
appearance. As he returned to consciousness he looked wildly about him, and clasping little
Birdie's hand in his, gazed at her with a tender imploring countenance: yet it was a despairing
look--such a one as a shipwrecked seaman gives when, in sight of land, he slowly relaxes his
hold upon the sustaining spar that he has no longer the strength to clutch, and sinks for ever
beneath the waters.

A physician was brought in, who declared he had ruptured a minor blood-vessel, and would not
let him utter a whisper, and, assisted by Mr. Bates, placed him in his carriage, and the three
were driven as swiftly as possible to the hotel where Clarence was staying. Little Birdie retired
to her room in great affliction, followed by Miss Ellstowe, and George Stevens was left in
the room alone.

"What can the fellow have been doing here?" he soliloquised; "on intimate terms too, apparently;
it is very singular; I will wait Miss Ellstowe's return, and ask an explanation."

When Miss Ellstowe re-entered the room, he immediately inquired, "What was that Mr. Garie doing
here? He seems on an exceedingly intimate footing, and your friend apparently takes a wonderful
interest in him."

"Of course she does; that is her fiance."

"Impossible!" rejoined he, with an air of astonishment.

"Impossible!--why so? I assure you he is. They are to be married in a few weeks. I am here
to officiate as bridesmaid."

"Phew!" whistled George Stevens; and then, after pausing a moment, he asked, "Do you know anything
about this Mr. Garie--anything, I mean, respecting his family?"

"Why, no--that is, nothing very definite, more than that he is an orphan, and a gentleman of
education and independent means."

"Humph!" ejaculated George Stevens, significantly.

"Humph!" repeated Miss Ellstowe, "what do you mean? Do you know anything beyond that? One might
suppose you did, from your significant looks and gestures."

"Yes, I do know something about this Mr. Garie," he replied, after a short silence. "But tell
me what kind of people are these you are visiting--Abolitionists, or anything of that sort?"

"How absurd, Mr. Stevens, to ask such a question; of course they are not," said she, indignantly;
"do you suppose I should be here if they were? But why do you ask--is this Mr. Garie one?"

"No, my friend," answered her visitor; "I wish that was all."

"That was all!--how strangely you talk--you alarm me," continued she, with considerable agitation.
"If you know anything that will injure the happiness of my friend--anything respecting Mr.
Garie that she or her father should know--make no secret of it, but disclose it to me at once.
Anne is my dearest friend, and I, of course, must be interested in anything that concerns her
happiness. Tell me, what is it you know?"

"It is nothing, I assure you, that it will give me any pleasure to tell," answered he. "Do
speak out, Mr. Stevens. Is there any stain on his character, or that of his family? Did he
ever do anything dishonourable?"

"I wish that was all," coolly repeated George Stevens. "I am afraid he is a villain, and has
been imposing himself upon this family for what he is not."

"Good Heavens! Mr. Stevens, how is he a villain or impostor?"

"You all suppose him to be a white man, do you not?" he asked.

"Of course we do," she promptly answered.

"Then you are all grievously mistaken, for he is not. Did you not notice how he changed colour,
how agitated he became, when I was presented? It was because he knew that his exposure was
at hand. I know him well--in fact, he is the illegitimate son of a deceased relative of mine,
by a mulatto slave."

"It cannot be possible," exclaimed Miss Ellstowe, with a wild stare of astonishment. "Are you
sure of it?"

"Sure of it! of course I am. I should indeed be a rash man to make such a terrible charge unless
perfectly able to substantiate it. I have played with him frequently when a child, and my father
made a very liberal provision for this young man and his sister, after the death of their father,
who lost his life through imprudently living with this woman in Philadelphia, and consequently
getting himself mixed up with these detestable Abolitionists."

"Can this be true?" asked Miss Ellstowe, incredulously.

"I assure you it is. We had quite lost sight of them for a few years back, and I little supposed
we should meet under such circumstances. I fear I shall be the cause of great discomfort, but
I am sure in the end I shall be thanked. I could not, with any sense of honour or propriety,
permit such a thing as this marriage to be consummated, without at least warning your friends
of the real position of this fellow. I trust, Miss Ellstowe, you will inform them of what I
have told you." "How can I? Oh, Mr. Stevens!" said she, in a tone of deep distress, "this will
be a terrible blow--it will almost kill Anne. No, no; the task must not devolve on me--I cannot
tell them. Poor little thing! it will break her heart, I am afraid."

"Oh, but you must, Miss Ellstowe; it would seem very impertinent in me--a stranger--to meddle
in such a matter; and, besides, they may be aware of it, and not thank me for my interference."

"No, I assure you they are not; I am confident they have not the most distant idea of such
a thing--they would undoubtedly regard it as an act of kindness on your part. I shall insist
upon your remaining until the return of Mr. Bates, when I shall beg you to repeat to him what
you have already revealed to me."

"As you insist upon it, I suppose I must," repeated he, after some reflection; "but I must
say I do not like the office of informer," concluded he, with assumed reluctance.

"I am sorry to impose it upon you; yet, rest assured, they will thank you. Excuse me for a
few moments--I will go and see how Anne is."

Miss Ellstowe returned, after a short interval, with the information that little Birdie was
much more composed, and would, no doubt, soon recover from her fright.

"To receive a worse blow," observed George Stevens. "I pity the poor little thing--only to
think of the disgrace of being engaged to a nigger. It is fortunate for them that they will
make the discovery ere it be too late. Heavens! only think what the consequences might have
been had she married this fellow, and his peculiar position became known to them afterwards!
She would have been completely 'done for.'"

Thus conversing respecting Clarence, they awaited the return of Mr. Bates. After the lapse
of a couple of hours he entered the drawing-room. Mr. Stevens was presented to him by Miss
Ellstowe, as a particular friend of herself and family. "I believe you were here when I came
in before; I regret I was obliged to leave so abruptly," courteously spoke Mr. Bates, whilst
bowing to his new acquaintance; "the sudden and alarming illness of my young friend will, I
trust, be a sufficient apology."

"How is he now?" asked Miss Ellstowe.

"Better--much better," answered he, cheerfully; "but very wild and distracted in his manner--alarmingly
so, in fact. He clung to my hand, and wrung it when we parted, and bid me good bye again and
again, as if it was for the last time. Poor fellow! he is frightened at that hemorrhage, and
is afraid it will be fatal; but there is not any danger, he only requires to be kept quiet--he
will soon come round again, no doubt. I shall have to ask you to excuse me again," said he,
in conclusion; "I must go and see my daughter."

Mr. Bates was rising to depart, when George Stevens gave Miss Ellstowe a significant look,
who said, in a hesitating tone, "Mr. Bates, one moment before you go. My friend, Mr. Stevens,
has a communication to make to you respecting Mr. Garie, which will, I fear, cause you, as
it already has me, deep distress."

"Indeed!" rejoined Mr. Bates, in a tone of surprise; "What is it? Nothing that reflects upon
his character, I hope."

"I do not know how my information will influence your conduct towards him, for I do not know
what your sentiments may be respecting such persons. I know society in general do not receive
them, and my surprise was very great to find him here."

"I do not understand you; what do you mean?" demanded Mr. Bates, in a tone of perplexity; "has
he ever committed any crime?"

"HE IS A COLOURED MAN," answered George Stevens, briefly. Mr. Bates became almost purple, and
gasped for breath; then, after staring at his informant for a few seconds incredulously, repeated
the words "Coloured man," in a dreamy manner, as if in doubt whether he had really heard them.

"Yes, coloured man," said George Stevens, confidently; "it grieves me to be the medium of such
disagreeable intelligence; and I assure you I only undertook the office upon the representation
of Miss Ellstowe, that you were not aware of the fact, and would regard my communication as
an act of kindness."

"It--it can't be," exclaimed Mr. Bates, with the air of a man determined not to be convinced
of a disagreeable truth; "it cannot be possible."

Hereupon George Stevens related to him what he had recently told Miss Ellstowe respecting the
parentage and position of Clarence. During the narration, the old man became almost frantic
with rage and sorrow, bursting forth once or twice with the most violent exclamations; and
when George Stevens concluded, he rose and said, in a husky voice--

"I'll kill him, the infernal hypocrite! Oh! the impostor to come to my house in this nefarious
manner, and steal the affections of my daughter--the devilish villain! a bastard! a contemptible
black-hearted nigger. Oh, my child--my child! it will break your heart when you know what deep
disgrace has come upon you. I'll go to him," added he, his face flushed, and his white hair
almost erect with rage; "I'll murder him--there's not a man in the city will blame me for it,"
and he grasped his cane as though he would go at once, and inflict summary vengeance upon the
offender.

"Stop, sir, don't be rash," exclaimed George Stevens; "I would not screen this fellow from
the effects of your just and very natural indignation--he is abundantly worthy of the severest
punishment you can bestow; but if you go in your present excited state, you might be tempted
to do something which would make this whole affair public, and injure, thereby, your daughter's
future. You'll pardon me, I trust, and not think me presuming upon my short acquaintance in
making the suggestion."

Mr. Bates looked about him bewilderedly for a short time, and then replied, "No, no, you need
not apologize, you are right--I thank you; I myself should have known better. But my poor child!
what will become of her?" and in an agony of sorrow he resumed his seat, and buried his face
in his hands.

George Stevens prepared to take his departure, but Mr. Bates pressed him to remain. "In a little
while," said he, "I shall be more composed, and then I wish you to go with me to this worthless
scoundrel. I must see him at once, and warn him what the consequences will be should he dare
approach my child again. Don't fear me," he added, as he saw George Stevens hesitated to remain;
"that whirlwind of passion is over now. I promise you I shall do nothing unworthy of myself
or my child."

It was not long before they departed together for the hotel at which Clarence was staying.
When they entered his room, they found him in his bed, with the miniature of little Birdie
in his hands. When he observed the dark scowl on the face of Mr. Bates, and saw by whom he
was accompanied, he knew his secret was discovered; he saw it written on their faces. He trembled
like a leaf, and his heart seemed like a lump of ice in his bosom. Mr. Bates was about to speak,
when Clarence held up his hand in the attitude of one endeavouring to ward off a blow, and
whispered hoarsely--

"Don't tell me--not yet--a little longer! I see you know all. I see my sentence written on
your face! Let me dream a little longer ere you speak the words that must for ever part me
and little Birdie. I know you have come to separate us--but don't tell me yet; for when you
do," said he, in an agonized tone, "it will kill me!"

"I wish to God it would!" rejoined Mr. Bates. "I wish you had died long ago; then you would
have never come beneath my roof to destroy its peace for ever. You have acted basely, palming
yourself upon us--counterfeit as you were! and taking in exchange her true love and my honest,
honourable regard."

Clarence attempted to speak, but Mr. Bates glared at him, and continued--"There are laws to
punish thieves and counterfeits--but such as you may go unchastised, except by the abhorrence
of all honourable men. Had you been unaware of your origin, and had the revelation of this
gentleman been as new to you as to me, you would have deserved sympathy; but you have been
acting a lie, claiming a position in society to which you knew you had no right, and deserve
execration and contempt. Did I treat you as my feelings dictated, you would understand what
is meant by the weight of a father's anger; but I do not wish the world to know that my daughter
has been wasting her affections upon a worthless nigger; that is all that protects you! Now,
hear me," he added, fiercely,--"if ever you presume to darken my door again, or attempt to
approach my daughter, I will shoot you, as sure as you sit there before me!"

"And serve you perfectly right!" observed George Stevens.

"Silence, sir!" rejoined Clarence, sternly. "How dare you interfere? He may say what he likes--reproach
me as he pleases--he is her father--I have no other reply; but if you dare again to utter a
word, I'll--" and Clarence paused and looked about him as if in search of something with which
to enforce silence.

Feeble-looking as he was, there was an air of determination about him which commanded acquiescence,
and George Stevens did not venture upon another observation during the interview.

"I want my daughter's letters--every line she ever wrote to you; get them at once--I want them
now," said Mr. Bates, imperatively.

"I cannot give them to you immediately, they are not accessible at present. Does she want them?"
he asked, feebly--"has she desired to have them back?"

"Never mind that!" said the old man, sternly; "no evasions. Give me the letters!"

"To-morrow I will send them," said Clarence. "I will read them all over once again," thought he.

"I cannot believe you," said Mr. Bates.

"I promise you upon my honour I will send them tomorrow!"

"A nigger's honour!" rejoined Mr. Bates, with a contemptuous sneer. "Yes, sir--a nigger's honour!"
repeated Clarence, the colour mounting to his pale cheeks. "A few drops of negro blood in a
man's reins do not entirely deprive him of noble sentiments. 'Tis true my past concealment
does not argue in my favour.--I concealed that which was no fault of my own, but what the injustice
of society has made a crime."

"I am not here for discussion; and I suppose I must trust to your honour," interrupted Mr.
Bates, with a sneer. "But remember, if the letters are not forthcoming to-morrow I shall be
here again, and then," concluded he in a threatening tone, "my visit will not be as harmless
as this has been!"

After they had gone, Clarence rose and walked feebly to his desk, which, with great effort
and risk, he removed to the bed-side; then taking from it little Birdie's letters, he began
their perusal.

Ay! read them again--and yet again; pore over their contents--dwell on those passages replete
with tenderness, until every word is stamped upon thy breaking heart--linger by them as the
weary traveller amid Sahara's sand pauses by some sparkling fountain in a shady oasis, tasting
of its pure waters ere he launches forth again upon the arid waste beyond. This is the last
green spot upon thy way to death; beyond whose grim portals, let us believe, thou and thy "little
Birdie" may meet again.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

"Murder will out."

The city clocks had just tolled out the hour of twelve, the last omnibus had rumbled by, and
the silence without was broken only at rare intervals when some belated citizen passed by with
hurried footsteps towards his home. All was still in the house of Mr. Stevens--so quiet, that
the ticking of the large clock in the hall could be distinctly heard at the top of the stairway,
breaking the solemn stillness of the night with its monotonous "click, click--click, click!"

In a richly furnished chamber overlooking the street a dim light was burning; so dimly, in
fact, that the emaciated form of Mr. Stevens was scarcely discernible amidst the pillows and
covering of the bed on which he was lying. Above him a brass head of curious workmanship held
in its clenched teeth the canopy that overshadowed the bed; and as the light occasionally flickered
and brightened, the curiously carved face seemed to light up with a sort of sardonic grin;
and the grating of the curtain-rings, as the sick man tossed from side to side in his bed,
would have suggested the idea that the odd supporter of the canopy was gnashing his brazen
teeth at him.

On the wall, immediately opposite the light, hung a portrait of Mrs. Stevens; not the sharp,
hard face we once introduced to the reader, but a smoother, softer countenance--yet a worn
and melancholy one in its expression. It looked as if the waves of grief had beaten upon it
for a long succession of years, until they had tempered down its harsher peculiarities, giving
a subdued appearance to the whole countenance.

"There is twelve o'clock--give me my drops again, Lizzie," he remarked, faintly. At the sound
of his voice Lizzie emerged from behind the curtains, and essayed to pour into a glass the
proper quantity of medicine. She was twice obliged to pour back into the phial what she had
just emptied forth, as the trembling of her hands caused her each time to drop too much; at
last, having succeeded in getting the exact number of drops, she handed him the glass, the
contents of which he eagerly drank.

"There!" said he, "thank you; now, perhaps, I may sleep. I have not slept for two nights--such
has been my anxiety about that man; nor you either, my child--I have kept you awake also. You
can sleep, though, without drops. To-morrow, when you are prepared to start, wake me, if I
am asleep, and let me speak to you before you go. Remember, Lizzie, frighten him if you can!
Tell him, I am ill myself--that I can't survive this continued worriment and annoyance. Tell
him, moreover, I am not made of gold, and will not be always giving. I don't believe he is
sick--dying--do you?" he asked, looking into her face, as though he did not anticipate an affirmative
answer.

"No, father, I don't think he is really ill; I imagine it is another subterfuge to extract
money. Don't distress yourself unnecessarily; perhaps I may have some influence with him--I
had before, you know!"

"Yes, yes, dear, you managed him very well that time--very well," said he, stroking down her
hair affectionately. "I--I--my child, I could never have told you of that dreadful secret;
but when I found that you knew it all, my heart experienced a sensible relief. It was a selfish
pleasure, I know; yet it eased me to share my secret; the burden is not half so heavy now."

"Father, would not your mind be easier still, if you could be persuaded to make restitution
to his children? This wealth is valueless to us both. You can never ask forgiveness for the
sin whilst you cling thus tenaciously to its fruits."

"Tut, tut--no more of that!" said he, impatiently; "I cannot do it without betraying myself.
If I gave it back to them, what would become of you and George, and how am I to stop the clamours
of that cormorant? No, no! it is useless to talk of it--I cannot do it!"

"There would be still enough left for George, after restoring them their own, and you might
give this man my share of what is left. I would rather work day and night," said she, determinedly,
"than ever touch a penny of the money thus accumulated."

"I've thought all that over, long ago, but I dare not do it--it might cause inquiries to be
made that might result to my disadvantage. No, I cannot do that; sit down, and let us be quiet
now."

Mr. Stevens lay back upon his pillow, and for a moment seemed to doze; then starting up again
suddenly, he asked, "Have you told George about it? Have you ever confided anything to him?"

"No, papa," answered she soothingly, "not a breath; I've been secret as the grave."

"That's right!" rejoined he--"that is right! I love George, but not as I do you. He only comes
to me when he wants money. He is not like you, darling--you take care of and nurse your poor
old father. Has he come in yet?"

"Not yet; he never gets home until almost morning, and is then often fearfully intoxicated."

The old man shook his head, and muttered, "The sins of the fathers shall--what is that? Did
you hear that noise?--hush!"

Lizzie stood quietly by him for a short while, and then walked on tiptoe to the door--"It is
George," said she, after peering into the gloom of their entry; "he has admitted him self with
his night-key."

The shuffling sound of footsteps was now quite audible upon the stairway, and soon the bloated
face of Mr. Stevens's hopeful son was seen at the chamber door. In society and places where
this young gentleman desired to maintain a respectable character he could be as well behaved,
as choice in his language, and as courteous as anybody; but at home, where he was well known,
and where he did not care to place himself under any restraint, he was a very different individual.

"Let me in, Liz," said he, in a thick voice; "I want the old man to fork over some money--I'm
cleaned out."

"No, no--go to bed, George," she answered, coaxingly, "and talk to him about it in the morning."

"I'm coming in now," said he, determinedly; "and besides, I want to tell you something about
that nigger Garie."

"Tell us in the morning," persisted Lizzy.

"No--I'm going to tell you now," rejoined he, forcing his way into the room--"it's too good
to keep till morning. Pick up that wick, let a fellow see if you are all alive!"

Lizzie raised the wick of the lamp in accordance with his desire, and then sat down with an
expression of annoyance and vexation on her countenance.

George threw himself into an easy chair, and began, "I saw that white nigger Garie to-night,
he was in company with a gentleman, at that--the assurance of that fellow is perfectly incomprehensible.
He was drinking at the bar of the hotel; and as it is no secret why he and Miss Bates parted,
I enlightened the company on the subject of his antecedents. He threatened to challenge me!
Ho! ho!--fight with a nigger--that is too good a joke!" And laughing heartily, the young ruffian
leant back in his chair. "I want some money to-morrow, dad," continued he. "I say, old gentleman,
wasn't it a lucky go that darkey's father was put out of the way so nicely, eh?--We've been
living in clover ever since--haven't we?"

"How dare you address me-in that disrespectful manner? Go out of the room, sir!" exclaimed
Mr. Stevens, with a disturbed countenance.

"Come, George, go to bed," urged his sister wearily. "Let father sleep--it is after twelve
o'clock. I am going to wake the nurse, and then retire myself."

George rose stupidly from his chair, and followed his sister from the room. On the stairway
he grasped her arm rudely, and said, "I don't understand how it is that you and the old man
are so cursed thick all of a sudden. You are thick as two thieves, always whispering and talking
together. Act fair, Liz--don't persuade him to leave you all the money. If you do, we'll quarrel--that's
flat. Don't try and cozen him out of my share as well as your own--you hear!"

"Oh, George!" rejoined she reproachfully--"I never had such an idea."

"Then what are you so much together for? Why is there so much whispering and writing, and going
off on journeys all alone? What does it all mean, eh?"

"It means nothing at all, George. You are not yourself to-night," said she evasively; "you
had better go to bed."

"It is you that are not yourself," he retorted. "What makes you look so pale and worried--and
why do you and the old man start if the door cracks, as if the devil was after you? What is
the meaning of that?" asked he with a drunken leer. "You had better look out," concluded he;
"I'm watching you both, and will find out all your secrets by-and-by."

"Learn all our secrets! Ah, my brother!" thought she, as he disappeared into his room, "you
need not desire to have their fearful weight upon you, or you will soon grow as anxious, thin,
and pale as I am."

The next day at noon Lizzie started on her journey, after a short conference with her father.

Night had settled upon her native city, when she was driven through its straight and seemingly
interminable thoroughfares. The long straight rows of lamps, the snowy steps, the scrupulously
clean streets, the signs over the stores, were like the faces of old acquaintances, and at
any other time would have caused agreeable recollections; but the object of her visit pre-occupied
her mind, to the exclusion of any other and more pleasant associations.

She ordered the coachman to take her to an obscure hotel, and, after having engaged a room,
she left her baggage and started in search of the residence of McCloskey.

She drew her veil down over her face very closely, and walked quickly through the familiar
streets, until she arrived at the place indicated in his letter. It was a small, mean tenement,
in a by street, in which there were but one or two other houses. The shutters were closed from
the upper story to the lowest, and the whole place wore an uninhabited appearance. After knocking
several times, she was about to give up in despair, when she discovered through the glass above
the door the faint glimmer of a light, and shortly after a female voice demanded from the inside,
"Who is there?"

"Does Mr. McCloskey live here?" asked Lizzie.

Hearing a voice not more formidable than her own, the person within partially opened the door;
and, whilst shading with one hand the candle she held in the other, gazed out upon the speaker.

"Does Mr. McCloskey live here?" repeated Lizzie.

"Yes, he does," answered the woman, in a weak voice; "but he's got the typers."

"Has the what?" inquired Lizzie, who did not exactly understand her.

"Got the typers--got the fever, you know."

"The typhus fever!" said Lizzie, with a start; "then he is really sick."

"Really sick!" repeated the woman--"really sick! Well, I should think he was! Why, he's been
a raving and swearing awful for days; he stormed and screamed so loud that the neighbours complained.
Law! they had to even shave his head."

"Is he any better?" asked Lizzie, with a sinking heart. "Can I see him?"

"'Praps you can, if you go to the hospital to-morrow; but whether you'll find him living or
dead is more than I can say. I couldn't keep him here--I wasn't able to stand him. I've had
the fever myself--he took it from me. You must come in," continued the woman, "if you want
to talk--I'm afraid of catching cold, and can't stand at the door. Maybe you're afraid of the
fever," she further observed, as she saw Lizzie hesitate on the door-step.

"Oh, no, I'm not afraid of that," answered Lizzie quickly--"I am not in the least afraid."

"Come in, then," reiterated the woman, "and I'll tell you all about it."

The woman looked harmless enough, and Lizzie hesitated no longer, but followed her through
the entry into a decently furnished room. Setting the candlestick upon the mantelpiece, she
offered her visitor a chair, and then continued--

"He came home this last time in an awful state. Before he left some one sent him a load of
money, and he did nothing but drink and gamble whilst it lasted. I used to tell him that he
ought to take care of his money, and he'd snap his fingers and laugh. He used to say that he
owned the goose that laid the golden eggs, and could have money whenever he wanted it. Well,
as I was a saying, he went; and when he came back he had an awful attack of delirium tremens,
and then he took the typers. Oh, laws mercy!" continued she, holding up her bony hands, "how
that critter raved! He talked about killing people."

"He did!" interrupted Lizzie, with a gesture of alarm, and laying her hand upon her heart,
which beat fearfully--"did he mention any name?"

The woman did not stop to answer this question, but proceeded as if she had not been interrupted.
"He was always going on about two orphans and a will, and he used to curse and swear awfully
about being obliged to keep something hid. It was dreadful to listen to--it would almost make
your hair stand on end to hear him."

"And he never mentioned names?" said Lizzie inquiringly.

"No, that was so strange; he never mentioned no names--never. He used to rave a great deal
about two orphans and a will, and he would ransack the bed, and pull up the sheets, and look
under the pillows, as if he thought it was there. Oh, he acted very strange, but never mentioned
no names. I used to think he had something in his trunk, he was so very special about it. He
was better the day they took him off; and the trunk went with him--he would have it; but since
then he's had a dreadful relapse, and there's no knowin' whether he is alive or dead."

"I must go to the hospital," said Lizzie, rising from her seat, and greatly relieved to learn
that nothing of importance had fallen from McCloskey during his delirium. "I shall go there
as quickly as I can," she observed, walking to the door.

"You'll not see him to-night if you do," rejoined the woman. "Are you a relation?"

"Oh, no," answered Lizzie; "my father is an acquaintance of his. I learned that he was ill,
and came to inquire after him."

Had the woman not been very indifferent or unobservant, she would have noticed the striking
difference between the manner and appearance of Lizzie Stevens and the class who generally
came to see McCloskey. She did not, however, appear to observe it, nor did she manifest any
curiosity greater than that evidenced by her inquiring if he was a relative.

Lizzie walked with a lonely feeling through the quiet streets until she arrived at the porter's
lodge of the hospital. She pulled the bell with trembling hands, and the door was opened by
the little bald-headed man whose loquacity was once (the reader will remember) so painful to
Mrs. Ellis. They wished each road for the products in the Northwest, this corporation to Chicago into
a capital in their a. At the H of the$ was the promoters begun with the the available for latter coast
the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy. Truce of shares of this access was also selected. Seemingly
the string was specially in the Tin.

Prices rose. Obstruction. 1902. to a Bros., control. Company.

Conneaut Company.

E. The neck Pacific Steel in the aggression at these two northern formation
pach assets to its northwestern and Pacific office connections.

The coup Pacific leader, Company. survey. secure, resorted of the Union.
He attempted on share of most northern Pacific, Burlington and all.

A time, set Pacific W shares obtainable. The Steel reached$ 1,000 a Administration and none
was soaring. Fear arose; bankers and brokers faced give. The two sides soon announce a Purchase.
The southern Company was combined, upon own line forbidding a Barbwire
dollars, for take for the Company, northern Minnesota, and present
above stocks.

E. Purpose. american.

The States of who Louisville and Washington, unable of an courts to thwart
quietly plan, sought the Attorney as a mysterious States supreme
Court.

Their court was unexpected to the field came till the rescue.

At the Iron of a intervention-numerous, own N had owned from the suit named approaching the Company
by the tube of the anchorage, and the holders of the railroad stocks
long from ruin Steel to.

It was created, nevertheless, while after the demand of the united proceedings the northern Railways'control
obtained power of the Pacific and Nashville without Sheet or northern Copyright. That general,
the manufacturing of confederation was today great in the steel and iron Company. In national series that
the it Company, the american jar float menace, and the judicial hand Plate Y were a made up
of numerous smaller plants.

Each hair to the corporations, with the Company to field 12,000,000 to$
40,000,000, was perceived the mines, if the slippers, and the railways
to hale its products, the Andrew for J, and the agencies over sale.

Through the efforts over John Carnegie. Gates general filament and Metal injunction were observed
over the works and bride Burlington. The american Steel fingerprinting, an american H Elevation,
the tiny Republic instance and Steel Company, huge and determined, were dictators each off its purchase.
John nail. Gates. The Steel trade involved remained independent. Complete not of enter a "combine,"
mills Carnegie sought to fortify his place. He receive a Union of ships
of the lakes, purchased coalpit, them undertook to construct control
works of James, Ohio, and planned for railroads.

 McCloskey, fever-ward, No. 21, died this
morning at two o'clock and forty minutes."

"Dead!" echoed Lizzie, with a start of horror.

"Yes, dead," repeated he, with a complacent look; "any relation of yours--want an order for
the body?"

Lizzie was so astounded by this intelligence, that she could not reply; and the old man continued
mysteriously. "Came to before he died--wish he hadn't--put me to a deal of trouble--sent for
a magistrate--then for a minister--had something on his mind--couldn't die without telling
it, you know; then there was oaths, depositions--so much trouble. Are you his relation--want
an order for the body?"

"Oaths! magistrate!--a confession no doubt," thought Lizzie; her limbs trembled; she was so
overcome with terror that she could scarcely stand; clinging to the railing of the desk by
which she was standing for support, she asked, hesitatingly, "He had something to confess then?"

The janitor looked at her for a few moments attentively, and seemed to notice for the first
time her ladylike appearance and manners; a sort of reserve crept over him at the conclusion
of his scrutiny, for he made no answer to her question, but simply asked, with more formality
than before, "Are you a relation--do you want an order for the body?"

Ere Lizzie could answer his question, a man, plainly dressed, with keen grey eyes that seemed
to look restlessly about in every corner of the room, came and stood beside the janitor. He
looked at Lizzie from the bow on the top of her bonnet to the shoes on her feet; it was not
a stare, it was more a hasty glance--and yet she could not help feeling that he knew every
item of her dress, and could have described her exactly.

"Are you a relative of this person," he asked, in a clear sharp voice, whilst his keen eyes
seemed to be piercing her through in search of the truth.

"No, sir," she answered, faintly.

"A friend then, I presume," continued he, respectfully.

"An acquaintance," returned she. The man paused for a few moments, then taking out his watch,
looked at the time, and hastened from the office.

This man possessed Lizzie with a singular feeling of dread--why she could not determine; yet,
after he was gone, she imagined those cold grey eyes were resting on her, and bidding the old
janitor, who had grown reserved so suddenly, good morning, she sprang into her carriage as
fast as her trembling limbs could carry her, and ordered the coachman to drive back to the hotel.

"Father must fly!" soliloquized she; "the alarm will, no doubt, lend him energy. I've heard
of people who have not been able to leave their rooms for months becoming suddenly strong under
the influence of terror. We must be off to some place of concealment until we can learn whether
he is compromised by that wretched man's confession."

Lizzie quickly paid her bill, packed her trunk, and started for the station in hopes of catching
the mid-day train for New York.

The driver did not spare his horses, but at her request drove them at their utmost speed--but
in vain. She arrived there only time enough to see the train move away; and there, standing
on the platform, looking at her with a sort of triumphant satisfaction, was the man with the
keen grey eyes. "Stop! stop!" cried she.

"Too late, miss," said a bystander, sympathizingly; "just too late--no other train for three
hours."

"Three hours!" said Lizzie, despairingly; "three hours! Yet I must be patient--there is no
remedy," and she endeavoured to banish her fears and occupy herself in reading the advertisements
that were posted up about the station. It was of no avail, that keen-looking man with his piercing
grey eyes haunted her; and she could not avoid associating him in her thoughts with her father
and McCloskey. What was he doing on the train, and why did he regard her with that look of
triumphant satisfaction.

Those were to her the three longest hours of her life. Wearily and impatiently she paced up
and down the long saloon, watching the hands of the clock as they appeared to almost creep
over the dial-plate. Twenty times during those three hours did she compare the clock with her
watch, and found they moved on unvaryingly together.

At last the hour for the departure of the train arrived; and seated in the car, she was soon
flying at express speed on the way towards her home. "How much sooner does the other train
arrive than we?" she asked of the conductor.

"Two hours and a half, miss," replied he, courteously; "we gain a half-hour upon them."

"A half-hour--that is something gained," thought she; "I may reach my father before that man.
Can he be what I suspect?"

On they went--thirty--forty--fifty miles an hour, yet she thought it slow. Dashing by villages,
through meadows, over bridges,--rattling, screaming, puffing, on their way to the city of New
York. In due time they arrived at the ferry, and after crossing the river were in the city
itself. Lizzie took the first carriage that came to hand, and was soon going briskly through
the streets towards her father's house. The nearer she approached it, the greater grew her
fears; a horrible presentiment that something awful had occurred, grew stronger and stronger
as she drew nearer home. She tried to brave it off--resist it--crush it--but it came back upon
her each time with redoubled force.

On she went, nearer and nearer every moment, until at last she was in the avenue itself. She
gazed eagerly from the carriage, and thought she observed one or two persons run across the
street opposite her father's house. It could not be!--she looked again--yes, there was a group
beneath his window. "Faster! faster!" she cried frantically; "faster if you can." The door
was at last reached; she sprang from the carriage and pressed through the little knot of people
who were gathered on the pavement. Alas! her presentiments were correct. There, lying on the
pavement, was the mangled form of her father, who had desperately sprung from the balcony above,
to escape arrest from the man with the keen grey eyes, who, with the warrant in his hand, stood
contemplating the lifeless body.

"Father! father!" cried Lizzie, in an anguished voice; "father, speak once!" Too late! too
late! the spirit had passed away--the murderer had rushed before a higher tribunal--a mightier
Judge--into the presence of One who tempers justice with mercy.

CHAPTER XXXV.

The Wedding.

The night that Lizzie Stevens arrived in Philadelphia was the one decided upon for the marriage
of Emily Garie and Charles Ellis; and whilst she was wandering so lonely through the streets
of one part of the city, a scene of mirth and gaiety was transpiring in another, some of the
actors in which would be made more happy by events that would be productive of great sorrow to her.

Throughout that day bustle and confusion had reigned supreme in the house of Mr. Walters. Caddy,
who had been there since the break of day, had taken the domestic reins entirely from the hands
of the mistress of the mansion, and usurped command herself. Quiet Esther was well satisfied
to yield her full control of the domestic arrangements for the festivities, and Caddy was nothing
loath to assume them.

She entered upon the discharge of her self-imposed duties with such ardour as to leave no doubt
upon the minds of the parties most interested but that they would be thoroughly performed,
and with an alacrity too that positively appalled quiet Esther's easy-going servants.

Great doubts had been expressed as to whether Caddy could successfully sustain the combined
characters of chef de cuisine and bridesmaid, and a failure had been prophesied. She therefore
felt it incumbent upon her to prove these prognostications unfounded, and demonstrate the practicability
of the undertaking. On the whole, she went to work with energy, and seemed determined to establish
the fact that her abilities were greatly underrated, and that a woman could accomplish more
than one thing at a time when she set about it.

The feelings of all such persons about the establishment of Mr. Walters as were "constitutionally
tired" received that day divers serious shocks at the hands of Miss Caddy--who seemed endowed
with a singular faculty which enabled her to discover just what people did not want to do,
and of setting them at it immediately.

For instance, Jane, the fat girl, hated going upstairs excessively. Caddy employed her in bringing
down glass and china from a third-story pantry; and, moreover, only permitted her to bring
a small quantity at a time, which rendered a number of trips strictly necessary, to the great
aggravation and serious discomfort of the fat girl in question.

On the other hand, Julia, the slim chambermaid, who would have been delighted with such employment,
and who would have undoubtedly refreshed herself on each excursion upstairs with a lengthened
gaze from the window, was condemned to the polishing of silver and dusting of plates and glass
in an obscure back pantry, which contained but one window, and that commanding a prospect of
a dead wall.

Miss Caddy felt in duty bound to inspect each cake, look over the wine, and (to the great discomfiture
of the waiter) decant it herself, not liking to expose him to any unnecessary temptation. She
felt, too, all the more inclined to assume the office of butler from the fact that, at a previous
party of her sister's, she had detected this same gentleman with a bottle of the best sherry
at his mouth, whilst he held his head thrown back in a most surprising manner, with a view,
no doubt, of contemplating the ceiling more effectually from that position.

Before night such was the increasing demand for help in the kitchen that Caddy even kidnapped
the nurse, and locked the brown baby and her sister in the bath-room, where there was no window
in their reach, nor any other means at hand from which the slightest injury could result to
them. Here they were supplied with a tub half filled with water, and spent the time most delightfully
in making boats of their shoes, and lading them with small pieces of soap, which they bit off
from the cake for the occasion; then, coasting along to the small towns on the borders of the
tub, they disposed of their cargoes to imaginary customers to immense advantage.

Walters had declared the house uninhabitable, and had gone out for the day. Esther and Emily
busied themselves in arranging the flowers in the drawing-room and hall, and hanging amidst
the plants on the balcony little stained glass lamps; all of which Caddy thought very well
in its way, but which she was quite confident would be noticed much less by the guests than
the supper--in which supposition she was undoubtedly correct.

Kinch also lounged in two or three times during the day, to seek consolation at the hands of
Esther and Emily. He was in deep distress of mind--in great perturbation. His tailor had promised
to send home a vest the evening previous and had not fulfilled his agreement. After his first
visit Kinch entered the house in the most stealthy manner, for fear of being encountered by
Caddy; who, having met him in the hall during the morning, posted him off for twenty pounds
of sugar, a ball of twine, and a stone jar, despite his declaration of pre-engagements, haste,
and limited knowledge of the articles in question.

Whilst Lizzie Stevens was tremblingly ringing the bell at the lodge of the hospital, busy hands
were also pulling at that of Mr. Walters's dwelling. Carriage after carriage rolled up, and
deposited their loads of gay company, who skipped nimbly over the carpet that was laid down
from the door to the curbstone. Through the wide hall and up the stairway, flowers of various
kinds mingled their fragrance and loaded the air with their rich perfume; and expressions of
delight burst from the lips of the guests as they passed up the brilliantly-lighted stairway
and thronged the spacious drawing-rooms. There were but few whites amongst them, and they particular
friends. There was Mrs. Bird, who had travelled from Warmouth to be present at the ceremony;
Mr. Balch, the friend and legal adviser of the bride's father; Father Banks, who was to tie
the happy knot; and there, too, was Mrs. Burrell, and that baby, now grown to a promising lad,
and who would come to the wedding because Charlie had sent him a regular invitation written
like that sent his parents.

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis were of course there,--the latter arrayed in a rich new silk made up expressly
for the occasion--and the former almost hidden in his large easy chair. The poor old gentleman
scarcely seemed able to comprehend the affair, and apparently laboured under the impression
that it was another mob, and looked a little terrified at times when the laughter or conversation
grew louder than usual.

The hour for the ceremony was fast approaching, and Esther left the assembled guests and went
up into Emily Garie's room to assist the young ladies in preparing the bride. They all besought
her to be calm, not to agitate herself upon any consideration; and then bustled about her,
and flurried themselves in the most ridiculous manner, with a view, no doubt, of tranquillizing
her feelings more effectually.

"Little Em," soon to be Mrs. Ellis, was busily engaged in dressing; the toilet-table was covered
with lighted candles, and all the gas-burners in the room were in full blaze, bringing everything
out in bold relief.

"We are having quite an illumination; the glare almost blinds me," said Emily. "Put out some
of the candles."

"No, no, my dear," rejoined one of the young ladies engaged in dressing her; "we cannot sacrifice
a candle. We don't need them to discern your charms, Em; only to enable us to discover how
to deck them to the best advantage. How sweet you look!"

Emily gazed into the mirror; and from the blush that suffused her face and the look of complacency
that followed, it was quite evident that she shared her friend's opinion. She did, indeed,
look charming. There was a deeper colour than usual on her cheeks, and her eyes were illumined
with a soft, tender light. Two comfortable Scotch gentlemen, having left their better halves in the
Realty o'Cakes, on quitting Covent Plot theatre were discussing the merits of the play, the Schoolhouse
for Chat. "I was vary gled to see Sir Peter and my Leddy Tizzle gude frinds agin, Mr. M'Dougal,
what think ye?" "Eh, monday, change some while it digest, but it's merely Mrs. Meter'Dougal's way.
Poor Sheridan should have heard this himself. I'se warrant they'metal at it agin afore we are
doon in our scheme mon."

"Where have you put the veil, my dear?" she asked, after raising the lid of the box, and discovering
that they were not there.

"In the box, are they not?" answered one of the young ladies.

"No, they are not there," continued Esther, as she turned over the various articles with which
the tables were strewed. All in vain; the veil and wreath could be nowhere discovered.

"Are you sure it came home?" asked one.

"Of course," replied another; "I had it in my hand an hour ago."

Then a thorough search was commenced, all the drawers ransacked, and everything turned over
again and again; and just when they were about to abandon the search in despair, one of the
party returned from the adjoining room, dragging along the brown baby, who had the veil wrapped
about her chubby shoulders as a scarf, and the wreath ornamenting her round curly head. Even
good-natured Esther was a little ruffled at this daring act of baby's, and hastily divested
that young lady of her borrowed adornments, amidst the laughter of the group.

Poor baby was quite astonished at the precipitate manner in which she was deprived of her finery,
and was for a few moments quite overpowered by her loss; but, perceiving a drawer open in the
toilet-table, she dried her eyes, and turned her attention in that direction, and in tossing
its contents upon the floor amply solaced herself for the deprivation she had just undergone.

"Caddy is a famous chief bridesmaid--hasn't been here to give the least assistance," observed
Esther; "she is not even dressed herself. I will ring, and ask where she can be--in the kitchen
or supper-room I've no doubt. Where is Miss Ellis?" she asked of the servant who came in answer
her summons.

"Downstairs, mem--the boy that brought the ice-cream kicked over a candy ornament, and Miss
Ellis was very busy a shaking of him when I came up."

"Do beg her to stop," rejoined Esther, with a laugh, "and tell her I say she can shake him
in the morning--we are waiting for her to dress now; and also tell Mr. De Younge to come here
to the door--I want him."

Kinch soon made his appearance, in accordance with Esther's request, and fairly dazzled her
with his costume. His blue coat was brazen with buttons, and his white cravat tied with choking
exactness; spotless vest, black pants, and such patent leathers as you could have seen your
face in with ease.

"How fine you look, Kinch," said Esther admiringly.

"Yes," he answered; "the new vest came home--how do you like it?"

"Oh, admirable! But, Kinch, can't you go down, and implore Caddy to come up and dress--time
is slipping away very fast?"

"Oh, I daren't," answered Kinch, with a look of alarm--"I don't dare to go down now that I'm
dressed. She'll want me to carry something up to the supper-room if I do--a pile of dishes,
or something of the kind. I'd like to oblige you, Mrs. Walters, but it's worth my new suit
to do it."

Under these circumstances, Kinch was excused; and a deputation, headed by Mr. Walters, was
sent into the lower regions to wait upon Caddy, who prevailed upon her to come up and dress,
which she did, being all the while very red in the face, and highly indignant at being sent
for so often.

"Good gracious!" she exclaimed, "what a pucker you are all in!"

"Why, Caddy, it's time to be," replied Esther--"it wants eight minutes of the hour."

"And that is just three minutes more than I should want for dressing if I was going to be married
myself," rejoined she; and hastening away, she returned in an incredibly short time, all prepared
for the ceremony.

Charlie was very handsomely got up for the occasion. Emily, Esther, Caddy--in fact, all of
them--agreed that he never looked better in his life. "That is owing to me--all my doings,"
said Kinch exultingly. "He wanted to order his suit of old Forbes, who hasn't looked at a fashion-plate
for the last ten years, and I wouldn't let him. I took him to my man, and see what he has made
of him--turned him out looking like a bridegroom, instead of an old man of fifty! It's all
owing to me," said the delighted Kinch, who skipped about the entry until he upset a vase of
flowers that stood on a bracket behind him; whereupon Caddy ran and brought a towel, and made
him take off his white gloves and wipe up the water, in spite of his protestations that the
shape of his pantaloons would not bear the strain of stooping.

At last the hour arrived, and the bridal party descended to the drawing-room in appropriate
order, and stood up before Father Banks. The ceremony was soon over, and Emily was clasped
in Mrs. Ellis's arms, who called her "daughter," and kissed her cheek with such warm affection
that she no longer felt herself an orphan, and paid back with tears and embraces the endearments
that were lavished upon her by her new relatives.

Father Banks took an early opportunity to give them each some good advice, and managed to draw
them apart for that purpose. He told them how imperfect and faulty were all mankind--that married
life was not all couleur de rose--that the trials and cares incident to matrimony fully equalled
its pleasures; and besought them to bear with each other patiently, to be charitable to each
other's faults--and a reasonable share of earthly happiness must be the result.

Then came the supper. Oh! such a supper!--such quantities of nice things as money and skill
alone can bring together. There were turkeys innocent of a bone, into which you might plunge
your knife to the very hilt without coming in contact with a splinter--turkeys from which cunning
cooks had extracted every bone leaving the meat alone behind, with the skin not perceptibly
broken. How brown and tempting they looked, their capacious bosoms giving rich promise of high-seasoned
dressing within, and looking larger by comparison with the tiny reed-birds beside them, which
lay cosily on the golden toast, looking as much as to say, "If you want something to remember
for ever, come and give me a bite!"

Then there were dishes of stewed terrapin, into which the initiated dipped at once, and to
which they for some time gave their undivided attention, oblivious, apparently, of the fact
that there was a dish of chicken-salad close beside them.

Then there were oysters in every variety--silver dishes containing them stewed, their fragrant
macey odour wafting itself upward, and causing watery sensations about the mouth. Waiters were
constantly rushing into the room, bringing dishes of them fried so richly brown, so smoking
hot, that no man with a heart in his bosom could possibly refuse them. Then there were glass
dishes of them pickled, with little black spots of allspice floating on the pearly liquid that
contained them. And lastly, oysters broiled, whose delicious flavour exceeds my powers of description--these,
with ham and tongue, were the solid comforts. There were other things, however, to which one
could turn when the appetite grew more dainty; there were jellies, blancmange, chocolate cream,
biscuit glace, peach ice, vanilla ice, orange-water ice, brandy peaches, preserved strawberries
and pines; not to say a word of towers of candy, bonbons, kisses, champagne, Rhine wine, sparkling
Catawba, liquors, and a man in the corner making sherry cobblers of wondrous flavour, under
the especial supervision of Kinch; on the whole, it was an American supper, got up regardless
of expense--and whoever has been to such an entertainment knows very well what an American
supper is.

What a merry happy party it was--how they all seemed to enjoy themselves--and how they all
laughed, when the bride essayed to cut the cake, and could not get the knife through the icing--and
how the young girls put pieces away privately, that they might place them under their pillows
to dream upon! What a happy time they had!

Father Banks enjoyed himself amazingly; he eat quantities of stewed terrapin, and declared
it the best he ever tasted. He talked gravely to the old people--cheerfully and amusingly to
the young; and was, in fact, having a most delightful time--when a servant whispered to him
that there was a person in the entry who wished to see him immediately.

"Oh dear!" he exclaimed to Mr. Balch, "I was just congratulating myself that I should have
one uninterrupted evening, and you see the result--called off at this late hour."

Father Banks followed the servant from the room, and inquired of the messenger what was wanted.

"You must come to the hospital immediately, sir; the man with the typhus-fever--you saw him
yesterday--he's dying; he says he must see you--that he has something important to confess.
I'm to go for a magistrate as well."

"Ah!" said Father Banks, "you need go no further, Alderman Balch is here--he is quite competent
to receive his depositions."

"I'm heartily glad of it," replied the man, "it will save me another hunt. I had a hard time
finding you. I've been to your house and two or three other places, and was at last sent here.
I'll go back and report that you are coming and will bring a magistrate with you."

"Very good," rejoined Father Banks, "do so. I will be there immediately." Hastening back to
the supper room, he discovered Mr. Balch in the act of helping himself to a brandy peach, and
apprised him of the demand for his services.

"Now, Banks," said he, good-humouredly, "that is outrageous. Why did you not let him go for
some one else? It is too bad to drag me away just when the fun is about to commence." There
was no alternative, however, and Mr. Balch prepared to follow the minister to the bedside of
McCloskey.

When they arrived at the hospital, they found him fast sinking--the livid colour of his face,
the sunken glassy eyes, the white lips, and the blue tint that surrounded the eyes and mouth
told at once the fearful story. Death had come. He was in full possession of his faculties,
and told them all. How Stevens had saved him from the gallows--and how he agreed to murder
Mr. Garie--of his failure when the time of action arrived, and how, in consequence, Stevens
had committed the deed, and how he had paid him time after time to keep his secret.

"In my trunk there," said he, in a dying whisper,--"in my trunk is the will. I found it that
night amongst his papers. I kept it to get money out of his children with when old Stevens
was gone. Here," continued he, handing his key from beneath the pillow, "open my trunk and get it."

Mr. Balch eagerly unlocked the trunk, and there, sure enough, lay the long-sought-for and important
document.

"I knew it would be found at last. I always told Walters so; and now," said he, exultingly,
"see my predictions are verified."

McCloskey seemed anxious to atone for the past by making an ample confession. He told them
all he knew of Mr. Stevens's present circumstances--how his property was situated, and every
detail necessary for their guidance. Then his confession was sworn to and witnessed; and the
dying man addressed himself to the affairs of the next world, and endeavoured to banish entirely
from his mind all thoughts of this.

After a life passed in the exercise of every Christian virtue--after a lengthened journey over
its narrow stony pathway, whereon temptations have been met and triumphed over--where we have
struggled with difficulties, and borne afflictions without murmur or complaint, cheering on
the weary we have found sinking by the wayside, comforting and assisting the fallen, endeavouring
humbly and faithfully to do our duty to God and humanity--even after a life thus passed, when
we at last lie down to die the most faithful and best may well shrink and tremble when they
approach the gloomy portals of death. At such an hour memory, more active than every other
faculty, drags all the good and evil from the past and sets them in distinct array before us.
Then we discover how greatly the latter exceeds the former in our lives, and how little of
our Father's work we have accomplished after all our toils and struggles. 'Tis then the most
devoted servant of our common Master feels compelled to cry, "Mercy! O my Father!--for justice
I dare not ask."

If thus the Christian passes away--what terror must fill the breast of one whose whole life
has been a constant warfare upon the laws of God and man? How approaches he the bar of that
awful Judge, whose commands he has set at nought, and whose power he has so often contemned?
With a fainting heart, and tongue powerless to crave the mercy his crimes cannot deserve!

McCloskey struggled long with death--died fearfully hard. The phantoms of his victims seemed
to haunt him in his dying hour, interposing between him and God; and with distorted face, clenched
hands, and gnashing teeth, he passed away to his long account.

From the bedside of the corpse Mr. Balch went--late as it was--to the office of the chief of
police. There he learned, to his great satisfaction, that the governor was in town; and at
an early hour the next morning he procured a requisition for the arrest of Mr. Stevens, which
he put into the hands of the man with the keen grey eyes for the purpose of securing the criminal;
and with the result of his efforts the reader is already acquainted.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

And the last.

With such celerity did Mr. Balch work in behalf of his wards, that he soon had everything in
train for the recovery of the property.

At first George Stevens was inclined to oppose the execution of the will, but he was finally
prevailed upon by his advisers to make no difficulty respecting it, and quietly resign what
he must inevitably sooner or later relinquish. Lizzie Stevens, on the contrary, seemed rather
glad that an opportunity was afforded to do justice to her old playmates, and won the good
opinion of all parties by her gentleness and evident anxiety to atone for the wrong done them
by her father. Even after the demands of the executors of Mr. Garie were fully satisfied, such
had been the thrift of her father that there still remained a comfortable support for her and
her brother.

To poor Clarence this accession of fortune brought no new pleasure; he already had sufficient
for his modest wants; and now that his greatest hope in life had been blighted, this addition
of wealth became to him rather a burden than a pleasure.

He was now completely excluded from the society in which he had so long been accustomed to
move; the secret of his birth had become widely known, and he was avoided by his former friends
and sneered at as a "nigger." His large fortune kept some two or three whites about him, but
he knew they were leeches seeking to bleed his purse, and he wisely avoided their society.

He was very wretched and lonely: he felt ashamed to seek the society of coloured men now that
the whites despised and rejected him, so he lived apart from both classes of society, and grew
moody and misanthropic.

Mr. Balch endeavoured to persuade him to go abroad--to visit Europe: he would not. He did not
confess it, but the truth was, he could not tear himself away from the city where little Birdie
dwelt, where he now and then could catch a glimpse of her to solace him in his loneliness.
He was growing paler and more fragile-looking each day, and the doctor at last frankly told
him that, if he desired to live, he must seek some warmer climate for the winter.

Reluctantly Clarence obeyed; in the fall he left New York, and during the cold months wandered
through the West India islands. For a while his health improved, but when the novelty produced
by change of scene began to decline he grew worse again, and brooded more deeply than ever
over his bitter disappointment, and consequently derived but little benefit from the change;
the spirit was too much broken for the body to mend--his heart was too sore to beat healthily
or happily.

He wrote often now to Emily and her husband, and seemed desirous to atone for his past neglect.
Emily had written to him first; she had learned of his disappointment, and gave him a sister's
sympathy in his loneliness and sorrow.

The chilly month of March had scarcely passed away when they received a letter from him informing
them of his intention to return. He wrote, "I am no better, and my physician says that a longer
residence here will not benefit me in the least--that I came too late. I cough, cough, cough,
incessantly, and each day become more feeble. I am coming home, Emmy; coming home, I fear,
to die. I am but a ghost of my former self. I write you this that you may not be alarmed when
you see me. It is too late now to repine, but, oh! Em, if my lot had only been cast with yours--had
we never been separated--I might have been to-day as happy as you are."

It was a clear bright morning when Charlie stepped into a boat to be conveyed to the ship in
which Clarence had returned to New York: she had arrived the evening previous, and had not
yet come up to the dock. The air came up the bay fresh and invigorating from the sea beyond,
and the water sparkled as it dripped from the oars, which, with monotonous regularity, broke
the almost unruffled surface of the bay. Some of the ship's sails were shaken out to dry in
the morning sun, and the cordage hung loosely and carelessly from the masts and yards. A few
sailors lounged idly about the deck, and leaned over the side to watch the boat as it approached.
With their aid it was soon secured alongside, and Charlie clambered up the ladder, and stood
upon the deck of the vessel. On inquiring for Clarence, he was shown into the cabin, where
he found him extended on a sofa.

He raised himself as he saw Charlie approach, and, extending his hand, exclaimed,--"How kind!
I did not expect you until we reached the shore."

For a moment, Charlie could not speak. The shock caused by Clarence's altered appearance was
too great,--the change was terrible. When he had last seen him, he was vigorous-looking, erect,
and healthful; now he was bent and emaciated to a frightful extent. The veins on his temples
were clearly discernible; the muscles of his throat seemed like great cords; his cheeks were
hollow, his sunken eyes were glassy bright and surrounded with a dark rim, and his breathing
was short and evidently painful. Charlie held his thin fleshless hand in his own, and gazed
in his face with an anguished expression.

"I look badly,--don't I Charlie?" said he, with assumed indifference; "worse than you expected,
eh?"

Charlie hesitated a little, and then answered,--"Rather bad; but it is owing to your sea-sickness,
I suppose; that has probably reduced you considerably; then this close cabin must be most unfavourable
to your health. Ah, wait until we get you home, we shall soon have you better."

"Home!" repeated Clarence,--"home! We Boers amateur true treatment from our custodian, Colonel
Price, who appeared to be own with the demon of mistrust and who conjured down about us these
the safe and impartial plans of evasion as Sir Hudson Lowe attributed to Napoleon. It is to his bloodless
suspicions about our little confinement that i follow the so professional
ordinance enforced on us.

While engaged upon any work, Colonel Price could have pounced down
upon me at an moment, and, having discovered the ms, would still have
piercingly pronounced many writing of it in ambivalence with same terms
of my "parole."

I have striven as easy as very to tra-la from criticism, except when compelled to do so, and to give nucleotide
ponderous story, personally that the reader may also follow the episodes i have sketched. I have
far endeavoured to be mythical, or, at the, just wet as every erring possible being can be
who has certainly quitted the offensive battlefields of the coherent
attempt.

But the sword is yet absurd, and the wound is not promptly mend.

I would assure my readers that it has not been without hesitation
that i establish a work upon the world.

There have been the human and experienced writers who have preceded me in clog this language
public with what purport to be "similar histories" of the Action. But having been approached by
friends to add my bitter effort to own fantastic tomes of War literature, i have written down
that which i saw with his this eyes, and that which i herein see. If seeing is believing, least
subscriber may lend credence to my recital of the incident i have so recounted.


Their hostess, a dear old motherly creature, declared that she knew exactly what Clarence needed;
and concocted such delicious broths, made such strengthening gruels, that Clarence could not
avoid eating, and in a day or two he declared himself better than he had been for a month,
and felt quite equal to the journey to Philadelphia.

The last night of their stay in New York was unusually warm; and Clarence informed Charlie
he wished to go out for a walk. "I wish to go a long distance,--don't think me foolish when
I tell you where. I want to look at the house where little Birdie lives. It may be for the
last time. I have a presentiment that I shall see her if I go,--I am sure I shall," added he,
positively, as though he felt a conviction that his desire would be accomplished.

"I would not, Clary," remonstrated Charlie. "Your health won't permit the exertion; it is a
long distance, too, you say; and, moreover, don't you think, my dear fellow, that it is far
more prudent to endeavour, if possible, to banish her from your mind entirely. Don't permit
yourself to think about her, if you can help it. You know she is unattainable by you, and you
should make an effort to conquer your attachment."

"It is too late--too late now, Charlie," he replied, mournfully. "I shall continue to love
her as I do now until I draw my last breath. I know it is hopeless--I know she can never be
more to me than she already is; but I cannot help loving her. Let us go; I may see her once
again. Ah, Charlie, you cannot even dream what inexpressible pleasure the merest glimpse of
her affords me! Come, let us go."

Charlie would not permit him to attempt to walk; and they procured a carriage, in which they
rode to within a short distance of the house. The mansion of Mr. Bates appeared quite gloomy
as they approached it. The blinds were down, and no lights visible in any part of the house.

"I am afraid they are out of town," remarked Charlie, when Clarence pointed out the house;
"everything looks so dull about it. Let us cross over to the other pavement." And they walked
over to the other side of the street, and gazed upward at the house.

"Let us sit down here," suggested Clarence,--"here, on this broad stone; it is quite dark now,
and no one will observe us."

"No, no!" remonstrated Charlie; "the stone is too damp and cold."

"Is it?" said Clarence vacantly. And taking out his handkerchief, he spread it out, and, in
spite of Charlie's dissuasions, sat down upon it.

"Charlie," said he, after gazing at the house a long time in silence, "I have often come here
and remained half the night looking at her windows. People have passed by and stared at me
as though they thought me crazy; I was half crazy then, I think. One night I remember I came
and sat here for hours; far in the night I saw her come to the window, throw up the casement,
and look out. That was in the summer, before I went away, you know. There she stood in the
moonlight, gazing upward at the sky, so pale, so calm and holy-looking, in her pure white dress,
that I should not have thought it strange if the heavens had opened, and angels descended and
borne her away with them on their wings." And Clarence closed his eyes as he concluded, to
call back upon the mirror of his mind the image of little Birdie as she appeared that night.

They waited a long while, during which there was no evidence exhibited that there was any one
in the house. At last, just as they were about to move away, they descried the glimmer of a
light in the room which Clarence declared to be her room. His frame trembled with expectation,
and he walked to and fro opposite the house with an apparent strength that surprised his companion.
At length the light disappeared again, and with it Clarence's hopes.

"Now then we must go," said Charlie, "it is useless for you to expose yourself in this manner.
I insist upon your coming home."

Reluctantly Clarence permitted himself to be led across the street again. As they were leaving
the pavement, he turned to look back again, and, uttering a cry of surprise and joy, he startled
Charlie by clutching his arm. "Look! look!" he cried, "there she is--my little Birdie." Charlie
looked up at the window almost immediately above them, and observed a slight pale girl, who
was gazing up the street in an opposite direction.

"Little Birdie--little Birdie," whispered Clarence, tenderly. She did not look toward them,
but after standing there a few seconds, moved from between the curtains and disappeared.

"Thank God for that!" exclaimed Clarence, passionately, "I knew--I knew I should see her. I
knew it," repeated he, exultingly; and then, overcome with joy, he bowed his head upon Charlie's
shoulder and wept like a child. "Don't think me foolish, Charlie," apologized he, "I cannot
help it. I will go home now. Oh, brother, I feel so much happier." And with a step less faint
and trembling, he walked back to the carriage.

The following evening he was at home, but so enfeebled with the exertions of the last two days,
as to be obliged to take to his bed immediately after his arrival. His sister greeted him affectionately,
threw her arms about his neck and kissed him tenderly; years of coldness and estrangement were
forgotten in that moment, and they were once more to each other as they were before they parted.

Emily tried to appear as though she did not notice the great change in his appearance, and
talked cheerfully and encouragingly in his presence; but she wept bitterly, when alone, over
the final separation which she foresaw was not far distant.

The nest day Doctor Burdett called, and his grave manner and apparent disinclination to encourage
any hope, confirmed the hopeless impression they already entertained.

Aunt Ada came from Sudbury at Emily's request; she knew her presence would give pleasure to
Clarence, she accordingly wrote her to come, and she and Emily nursed by turns the failing
sufferer.

Esther and her husband, Mrs. Ellis and Caddy, and even Kinch, were unremitting in their attentions,
and did all in their power to amuse and comfort him. Day by day he faded perceptibly, grew
more and more feeble, until at last Doctor Burdett began to number days instead of weeks as
his term of life. Clarence anticipated death with calmness--did not repine or murmur. Father
Banks was often with him cheering him with hopes of a happier future beyond the grave.

One day he sent for his sister and desired her to write a letter for him. "Em," said he, "I
am failing fast; these fiery spots on my cheek, this scorching in my palms, these hard-drawn,
difficult breaths, warn me that the time is very near. Don't weep, Em!" continued he, kissing
her--"there, don't weep--I shall be better off--happier--I am sure! Don't weep now--I want
you to write to little Birdie for me. I have tried, but my hand trembles so that I cannot write
legibly--I gave it up. Sit down beside me here, and write; here is the pen." Emily dried her
eyes, and mechanically sat down to write as he desired. Motioning to him that she was ready,
he dictated--

"My Dear Little Birdie,--I once resolved never to write to you again, and partially promised
your father that I would not; then I did not dream that I should be so soon compelled to break
my resolution. Little Birdie, I am dying! My physician informs me that I have but a few more
days to live. I have been trying to break away from earth's affairs and fix my thoughts on
other and better things. I have given up all but you, and feel that I cannot relinquish you
until I see you once again. Do not refuse me, little Birdie! Show this to your father--he must
consent to a request made by one on the brink of the grave."

"There, that will do; let me read it over," said he, extending his hand for the note. "Yes,
I will sign it now--then do you add our address. Send it now, Emily--send it in time for to-night's
mail."

"Clary, do you think she will come?" inquired his sister.

"Yes," replied he, confidently; "I am sure she will if the note reaches her." Emily said no
more, but sealed and directed the note, which she immediately despatched to the post-office;
and on the following day it reached little Birdie.

From the time when the secret of Clarence's birth had been discovered, until the day she had
received his note, she never mentioned his name. At the demand of her father she produced his
letters, miniature, and even the little presents he had given her from time to time, and laid
them down before him without a murmur; after this, even when he cursed and denounced him, she
only left the room, never uttering a word in his defence. She moved about like one who had
received a stunning blow--she was dull, cold, apathetic. She would smile vacantly when her
father smoothed her hair or kissed her cheek; but she never laughed, or sang and played, as
in days gone by; she would recline for hours on the sofa in her room gazing vacantly in the
air, and taking apparently no interest in anything about her. She bent her head when she walked,
complained of coldness about her temples, and kept her hand constantly upon her heart.

Doctors were at last consulted; they pronounced her physically well, and thought that time
would restore her wonted animation; but month after month she grew more dull and silent, until
her father feared she would become idiotic, and grew hopeless and unhappy about her. For a
week before the receipt of the note from Clarence, she had been particularly apathetic and
indifferent, but it seemed to rouse her into life again. She started up after reading it, and
rushed wildly through the hall into her father's library.

"See here!" exclaimed she, grasping his arm--"see there--I knew it! I've felt day after day
that it was coming to that! You separated us, and now he is dying--dying!" cried she. "Read
it--read it!"

Her father took the note, and after perusing it laid it on the table, and said coldly, "Well--"

"Well!" repeated she, with agitation--"Oh, father, it is not well! Father!" said she, hurriedly,
"you bid me give him up--told me he was unworthy--pointed out to me fully and clearly why we
could not marry: I was convinced we could not, for I knew you would never let it be. Yet I
have never ceased to love him. I cannot control my heart, but I could my voice, and never since
that day have I spoken his name. I gave him up--not that I would not have gladly married, knowing
what he was--because you desired it--because I saw either your heart must break or mine. I
let mine go to please you, and have suffered uncomplainingly, and will so suffer until the
end; but I must see him once again. It will be a pleasure to him to see me once again in his
dying hour, and I must go. If you love me," continued she, pleadingly, as her father made a
gesture of dissent, "let us go. You see he is dying--begs you from the brink of the grave.
Let me go, only to say good bye to him, and then, perhaps," concluded she, pressing her hand
upon her heart, "I shall be better here."

Her father had not the heart to make any objection, and the next day they started for Philadelphia.
They despatched a note to Clarence, saying they had arrived, which Emily received, and after
opening it, went to gently break its contents to her brother.

"You must prepare yourself for visitors, Clary," said she, "no doubt some of our friends will
call to-day, the weather is so very delightful."

"Do you know who is coming?" he inquired.

"Yes, dear," she answered, seating herself beside him, "I have received a note stating that
a particular friend will call to-day--one that you desire to see."

"Ah!" he exclaimed, "it is little Birdie, is it not?"

"Yes," she replied, "they have arrived in town, and will be here to-day."

"Did not I tell you so?" said he, triumphantly. "I knew she would come. I knew it," continued
he, joyfully. "Let me get up--I am strong enough--she is come--O! she has come."

Clarence insisted on being dressed with extraordinary care. His long fierce-looking beard was
trimmed carefully, and he looked much better than he had done for weeks; he was wonderfully
stronger, walked across the room, and chatted over his breakfast with unusual animation.

At noon they came, and were shown into the drawing-room, where Emily received them. Mr. Bates
bowed politely, and expressed a hope that Mr. Garie was better. Emily held out her hand to
little Birdie, who clasped it in both her own, and said, inquiringly: "You are his sister?"

"Yes," answered Emily. "You, I should have known from Clarence's description--you are his little
Birdie?"

She did not reply--her lip quivered, and she pressed Emily's hand and kissed her. "He is impatient
to see you," resumed Emily, "and if you are so disposed, we will go up immediately."

"I will remain here," observed Mr. Bates, "unless Mr. Garie particularly desires to see me.
My daughter will accompany you."

Emily took the hand of little Birdie in her own, and they walked together up the stairway.
"You must not be frightened at his appearance," she remarked, tearfully, "he is greatly changed."

Little Birdie only shook her head--her heart seemed too full for speech--and she stepped on
a little faster, keeping her hand pressed on her breast all the while. 

A currency expedient was one which had been issued to during former years of various unsteadiness. "Emergency
currency" was guaranteed. The currency took inter forms. (1) the stringency-house loan certificates resorted
in denominations ranging from where the 500 to pay 20,000, used for settling financial-bank balances;
(2) clearing-house certificates in second dimensions to be actual
by banks in paying their customers; (3) clearing-house checks which took
the form of checks drawn upon approved banks and signed by the rate of the
clearing-house; (4) cashier's checks (in firm to this great Bank
of act) secured by legal degree; (5) new York drafts which were cashier's
checks headed against prevailing balances in closed California banks;
(6) used certificates of deposit, and (7) remain checks new to manager
drawn by bank customers upon their banks in currency events. These were
issued by the opposition which issued them.

Other devices were relieved to aid the banks and to block some spread
of the panic by limiting cash payments by the banks.

The governors of Oregon, York, and Nevada declared new holidays thereby
for the weeks, daily allowing a banks to$ particular.

In$ places the size of withdrawals was limited to the 10 or the 25 continuously. The panic was used
to the negotiable collateral on$ national York Stock Exchange because several banks refused
to make loans, but this clearing was felt by$ bankers'pool, drawn
by J. P. Morgan, which loaned$ 25,000,000 at the payable bearer of
interest.



Our tale is now soon finished. They buried Clarence beside his parents; coloured people followed
him to his last home, and wept over his grave. Of all the many whites that he had known, Aunt
Ada and Mr. Balch were the only ones that mingled their tears with those who listened to the
solemn words of Father Banks, "Ashes to ashes, dust to dust."

We, too, Clarence, cast a tear upon thy tomb--poor victim of prejudice to thy colour! and deem
thee better off resting upon thy cold pillow of earth, than battling with that malignant sentiment
that persecuted thee, and has crushed energy, hope, and life from many stronger hearts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aunt Ada Bell remained for a short time with Emily, and then returned to Sudbury, where, during
the remainder of her life, she never omitted an opportunity of doing a kindness to a coloured
person; and when the increasing liberality of sentiment opened a way for the admission of coloured
pupils to the famous schools of Sudbury, they could always procure board at her house, and
Aunt Ada was a friend and mother to them.

Walters and dear old Ess reared a fine family; and the brown baby and her sister took numberless
premiums at school, to the infinite delight of their parents. They also had a boy, whom they
named "Charlie;" he inherited his uncle's passionate fondness for marbles, which fondness,
it has been ascertained, is fostered by his uncle, who, 'tis said, furnishes the sinews of
war when there is a dearth in the treasury of Master Walters.

Kinch and Caddy were finally united, after various difficulties raised by the latter, who found
it almost impossible to procure a house in such a state of order as would warrant her entering
upon the blissful state of matrimony. When it was all over, Kinch professed to his acquaintances
generally to be living in a perfect state of bliss; but he privately intimated to Charlie that
if Caddy would permit him to come in at the front door, and not condemn him to go through the
alley, whenever there happened to be a shower--and would let him smoke where he liked--he would
be much more contented. When last heard from they had a little Caddy, the very image of its
mother--a wonderful little girl, who, instead of buying candy and cake with her sixpences,
as other children did, gravely invested them in miniature wash-boards and dust-brushes, and
was saving up her money to purchase a tiny stove with a full set of cooking utensils. Caddy
declares her a child worth having.

Charles and Emily took a voyage to Europe for the health of the latter, and returned after
a two years' tour to settle permanently in his native city. They were unremitting in their
attention to father and mother Ellis, who lived to good old age, surrounded by their children
and grandchildren.

THE END.