At Saint Germain, Dr. Russell's courier assisted in obtaining conveyances for the whole of
our party, and we were soon rolling away in the direction of Mantes-la-Jolie, famous as the
town where William the Conqueror, whilst bent on pillage and destruction, received the injuries
which caused his death. Here we had to report ourselves to the German Commander, who, to the
general consternation, began by refusing its permission to proceed. He did so because most
of the safe-conducts delivered to us at Versailles, had, in the first instance, only stated
that we were to travel by way of Sedan; the words "or Mantes or Dreux" being afterwards added
between the lines. That interlineation was irregular, said the General at Mantes; it might
even be a forgery; at all events, he could not recognize it, so we must go back whence we had
come, and quickly, too--indeed, he gave us just half an hour to quit the town! But it fortunately
happened that in a few of the safe-conducts there was no interlineation whatever, the words
"Sedan or Mantes or Dreux" being duly set down in the body of the document, and on this being
pointed out, the General came to the conclusion that we were not trying to impose on him. He
thereupon cancelled his previous order, and decided that, as dusk was already falling, we might
remain at Mantes that night, and resume our journey on the morrow at 5.45 a.m., in the charge
of a cavalry escort.

Having secured a couple of beds, and ordered some dinner at one of the inns, my father and
I strolled about the town, which was full of Uhlans and Hussars. The old stone bridge across
the Seine had been blown up by the French before their evacuation of the town, and a part of
the railway line had also been destroyed by them. But the Germans were responsible for the
awful appearance of the railway-station. Never since have I seen anything resembling it. A
thousand panes of glass belonging to windows or roofing had been shivered to atoms. Every mirror
in either waiting or refreshment-rooms had been pounded to pieces; every gilt frame broken
into little bits. The clocks lay about in small fragments; account-books and printed forms
had been torn to scraps; partitions, chairs, tables, benches, boxes, nests of drawers, had
been hacked, split, broken, reduced to mere strips of wood. The large stoves were overturned
and broken, and the marble refreshment counter--some thirty feet long, and previously one of
the features of the station--now strewed the floor in particles, suggesting gravel. It was,
indeed, an amazing sight, the more amazing as no such work of destruction could have been accomplished
without extreme labour. When we returned to the inn for dinner, I asked some questions. "Who
did it?" "The first German troops that came here," was the answer. "Why did they do it?--was
it because your men had cut the telegraph wires and destroyed some of the permanent way?" "Oh
no! They expected to find something to drink in the refreshment-room, and when they discovered
that everything had been taken away, they set about breaking the fixtures!" Dear, nice, placid
German soldiers, baulked, for a few minutes, of some of the wine of France!

In the morning we left Mantes by moonlight at the appointed hour, unaccompanied, however, by
any escort. Either the Commandant had forgotten the matter, or his men had overslept themselves.
In the outskirts, we were stopped by a sentry, who carried our pass to a guard-house, where
a noncommissioned officer inspected it by the light of a lantern. Then on we went again for
another furlong or so, when we were once more challenged, this time by the German advanced-post.
As we resumed our journey, we perceived, in the rear, a small party of Hussars, who did not
follow us, but wheeled suddenly to the left, bent, no doubt, on some reconnoitering expedition.
We were now beyond the German lines, and the dawn was breaking. Yonder was the Seine, with
several islands lying on its bosom, and some wooded heights rising beyond it. Drawing nearer
to the river, we passed through the village of Rolleboise, which gives its name to the chief
tunnel on the Western Line, and drove across the debatable ground where French Francstireurs
were constantly on the prowl for venturesome Uhlans. At last we got to Bonnieres, a little
place of some seven or eight hundred inhabitants, on the limits of Seine-et-Oise; and there
we had to alight, for the vehicles, which had brought us from Saint Germain, could proceed
no further.

Fortunately, we secured others, and went on towards the village of Jeufosse, where the nearest
French outposts were established. We were displaying the white flag, but the first French sentries
we met, young fellows of the Mobile Guard, refused for a little while to let us pass. Eventually
they referred the matter to an officer, who, on discovering that we were English and had come
from Paris, began to chat with us in a very friendly manner, asking all the usual questions
about the state of affairs in the capital, and expressing the usual satisfaction that the city
could still hold out. When we took leave, he cordially wished us bon voyage, and on we hastened,
still following the course of the Seine, to the little town of Vernon. Its inquisitive inhabitants
at once surrounded us, eager to know who we were, whence we had come, and whither we were going.
But we did not tarry many minutes, for we suddenly learnt that the railway communication with
Rouen only began at Gaillon, several leagues further on, and that there was only one train
a day. The question which immediately arose was--could we catch it?

On we went, then, once more, this time up, over, and down a succession of steep hills, until
at last we reached Gaillon station, and found to our delight that the train would not start
for another twenty minutes. All our companions took tickets for Rouen, whence they intended
to proceed to Dieppe or Le Havre. But my father and I branched off before reaching the Norman
capital, and, after, arriving at Elbeuf, travelled through the departments of the Eure and
the Orne, passing Alencon on our way to Le Mans. On two or three occasions we had to change
from one train to another. The travelling was extremely slow, and there were innumerable stoppages.
The lines were constantly encumbered with vans laden with military supplies, and the stations
were full of troops going in one and another direction. In the waiting-rooms one found crowds
of officers lying on the couches, the chairs, and the tables, and striving to snatch a few
hours' sleep; whilst all over the floors and the platforms soldiers had stretched themselves
for the same purpose. Very seldom could any food be obtained, but I luckily secured a loaf,
some cheese, and a bottle of wine at Alencon. It must have been about one o'clock in the morning
when we at last reached Le Mans, and found that there would be no train going to Rennes for
another four or five hours.

The big railway-station of Le Mans was full of reinforcements for the Army of the Loire. After
strolling about for a few minutes, my father and I sat down on the platform with our backs
against a wall, for not a bench or a stool was available. Every now and again some train prepared
to start, men were hastily mustered, and then climbed into all sorts of carriages and vans.
A belated general rushed along, accompanied by eager aides-de-camp. Now and again a rifle slipped
from the hand of some Mobile Guard who had been imbibing too freely, and fell with a clatter
on the platform. Then stores were bundled into trucks, whistles sounded, engines puffed, and
meanwhile, although men were constantly departing, the station seemed to be as crowded as ever.
When at last I got up to stretch myself, I noticed, affixed to the wall against which I had
been leaning, a proclamation of Gambetta's respecting D'Aurelle de Paladines' victory over
Von der Tann at Orleans. In another part of the station were lithographed notices emanating
from the Prefect of the department, and reciting a variety of recent Government decrees and
items of war news, skirmishes, reconnaissances, and so forth. At last, however, our train came
in. It was composed almost entirely of third-class carriages with wooden seats, and we had
to be content with that accommodation.

Another long and wearisome journey then began. Again we travelled slowly, again there were
innumerable stoppages, again we passed trains crowded with soldiers, or crammed full of military
stores. At some place where we stopped there was a train conveying some scores of horses, mostly
poor, miserable old creatures. I looked and wondered at the sight of them. "They have come
from England," said a fellow-passenger; "every boat from Southampton to Saint Malo brings over
quite a number." It was unpleasant to think that such sorry-looking beasts had been shipped
by one's own countrymen. However, we reached Rennes at last, and were there able to get a good
square meal, and also to send a telegram to my stepmother, notifying her of our early arrival.
It was, however, at a late hour that we arrived at Saint Malo, whence we drove to La Petite
Amelia at Saint Servan.

The latter town then contained a considerable colony of English people, among whom the military
element predominated. Quite a number of half-pay or retired officers had come to live there
with their families, finding Jersey overcrowded and desiring to practise economy. The colony
also included several Irish landlords in reduced circumstances, who had quitted the restless
isle to escape assassination at the hands of "Rory of the Hills" and folk of his stamp. In
addition, there were several maiden ladies of divers ages, but all of slender means; one or
two courtesy lords of high descent, but burdened with numerous offspring; together with a riding-master
who wrote novels, and an elderly clergyman appointed by the Bishop of Gibraltar. I dare say
there may have been a few black sheep in the colony; but the picture which Mrs. Annie Edwardes
gave of it in her novel, "Susan Fielding," was exaggerated, though there was truth in the incidents
which she introduced into another of her works, "Ought We to Visit Her?" On the whole, the
Saint Servan colony was a very respectable one, even if it was not possessed of any great means.
Going there during my holidays, I met many young fellows of my own age or thereabouts, and
mostly belonging to military families. There were also several charming girls, both English
and Irish. With the young fellows I boated, with the young ladies I played croquet.

Now, whilst my father and I had been shut up in Paris, we had frequently written to my stepmother
by balloon-post, and on some of our letters being shown to the clergyman of the colony, he
requested permission to read them to his congregation--which he frequently did, omitting, of
course, the more private passages, but giving all the items of news and comments on the situation
which the letters contained. As a matter of fact, this helped the reverend gentleman out of
a difficulty. He was an excellent man, but, like many others of his cloth, he did not know
how to preach. In fact, a year or two later, I myself wrote one or two sermons for him, working
into them certain matters of interest to the colony. During the earlier part of the siege of
Paris, however, the reading of my father's letters and my own from the pulpit at the close
of the usual service saved the colony's pastor from the trouble of composing a bad sermon,
or of picking out an indifferent one from some forgotten theological work. My father, on arriving
at Saint Servan, secluded himself as far as possible, so as to rest awhile before proceeding
to England; but I went about much as usual; and my letters read from the pulpit, and sundry
other matters, having made me a kind of "public character," I was at once pounced upon in the
streets, carried off to the club and to private houses, and there questioned and cross-questioned
by a dozen or twenty Crimean and Indian veteran officers who were following the progress of
the war with a passionate interest.

A year or two previously, moreover, my stepmother had formed a close friendship with one of
the chief French families of the town. The father, a retired officer of the French naval service,
was to have commanded a local Marching Battalion, but he unfortunately sickened and died, leaving
his wife with one daughter, a beautiful girl who was of about my own age. Now, this family
had been joined by the wife's parents, an elderly couple, who, on the approach of the Germans
to Paris, had quitted the suburb where they resided. I was often with these friends at Saint
Servan, and on arriving there from Paris, our conversation naturally turned on the war. As
the old gentleman's house in the environs of the capital was well within the French lines,
he had not much reason to fear for its safety, and, moreover, he had taken the precaution to
remove his valuables into the city. But he was sorely perturbed by all the conflicting news
respecting the military operations in the provinces, the reported victories which turned out
to be defeats, the adverse rumours concerning the condition of the French forces, the alleged
scandal of the Camp of Conlie, where the more recent Breton levies were said to be dying off
like rotten sheep, and many other matters besides. Every evening when I called on these friends
the conversation was the same. The ladies, the grandmother, the daughter, and the granddaughter,
sat there making garments for the soldiers or preparing lint for the wounded--those being the
constant occupations of the women of Brittany during all the hours they could spare from their
household duties--and meanwhile the old gentleman discussed with me both the true and the spurious
news of the day. The result of those conversations was that, as soon as my father had betaken
himself to England, I resolved to go to the front myself, ascertain as much of the truth as
I could, and become, indeed, a war-correspondent on "my own." In forming that decision I was
influenced, moreover, by one of those youthful dreams which life seldom, if ever, fulfils.

IX

THE WAR IN THE PROVINCES

First Efforts of the National Defence Delegates--La Motte-Rouge and his Dyed Hair--The German
Advance South of Paris--Moltke and King William-- Bourges, the German Objective--Characteristics
of Beauce, Perche, and Sologne--French Evacuation of Orleans--Gambetta arrives at Tours--His
Coadjutor, Charles Louis de Saulces de Freycinet--Total Forces of the National Defence on Gambetta's
Arrival--D'Aurelle de Paladines supersedes La Motte-Rouge--The Affair of Chateaudun--Cambriels--Garibaldi--Jessie
White Mario--Edward Vizetelly--Catholic Hatred of Garibaldi--The Germans at Dijon--The projected
Relief of Paris--Trochu's Errors and Ducrot's Schemes--The French Victory of Coulmiers--Change
of Plan in Paris--My Newspaper Work--My Brother Adrian Vizetelly--The General Position.

