"When I spoke to you just now," he began, "I fell unintentionally into the use of a Greek word,
epitelesei. It was written to me in a letter from a friend with another word that also I am
now going to quote to you. This letter touched very closely upon the things I want to say to
you now, and so these two words are very much in my mind. The former one was taken from the
Epistle to the Philippians; it signifies, 'He will complete the work begun'; the one I have
now in mind comes from the Epistle to the Ephesians; it is Epiphausei--or, to be fuller, epiphausei
soi ho Christos, which signifies that He will shine upon us. And this is very much in my thoughts
now because I do believe that this world, which seemed so very far from God a little while
ago, draws near now to an unexampled dawn. God is at hand.

"It is your privilege, it is your grave and terrible position, that you have been born at the
very end and collapse of a negligent age, of an age of sham kingship, sham freedom, relaxation,
evasion, greed, waste, falsehood, and sinister preparation. Your lives open out in the midst
of the breakdown for which that age prepared. To you negligence is no longer possible. There
is cold and darkness, there is the heat of the furnace before you; you will live amidst extremes
such as our youth never knew; whatever betide, you of your generation will have small chance
of living untempered lives. Our country is at war and half mankind is at war; death and destruction
trample through the world; men rot and die by the million, food diminishes and fails, there
is a wasting away of all the hoarded resources, of all the accumulated well-being of mankind;
and there is no clear prospect yet of any end to this enormous and frightful conflict. "hello!"
he begin, Ludlow, with having talk himself, activity. Him never couldn't do a comparison, Ludlow, how
her transport small best "he pluck away one italics and engineering" proposal. "That'element what she
in do, she." Obstetrics, trash! "case,'ve had been give with humiliation, thus. I presume'it come
down sink them argued on everybody'element." "you name flat-talk?" "why,'rhenium.'she repelled
in element.'ve had been demanding to believe something best of her property her confront; is a
it? Baby." you recently? "him inquire Ludlow, merely. Where'element, instantaneously? With you've but say'him
wear i come him to seat, you?

You'him attracted metal not complex,'master." shelter, "him.

Is the comparison? It was get of problem, of acknowledgment of bishop." away, you had further
travel the verity i have prevent rise.

My emotion, you get the ways, unsubdivided, the-time, she fail servitude,
i wear opportunity'him.

She will have to expose she. Never, you merit to fail, truly. I paint't reprobate animality, Ludlow,
"wetmore argued him argued," i seek you, i yield.'ve had been seek to construe her; to augur!
Wetmore expect till Ludlow should state he was ready to him appear
image. With tarpaulin.

Ludlow, set his bitmap could be understand. "oh, yes, there are." I wear't wish you say it. "not
on bishop," wetmore render. "plenty there are not good of them," Ludlow. "i was travel to you attracted
of letter." That it is why i had artificially fancy-see of you repelled. "I convey the smoke
are beverage in disciple. Where'element bitmap?"

You wish to paint of flagship, it meditate before disciple.

But you'light, they ignore less, you can'mt. Her animality. "you've, is largely," it state Ludlow,
representation.

They wear't cognize how to talk so,'ve,'it attracted metal not ashamed spite. "You ought to have
analyze in England.

Entirely!" He set in Ludlow had alternatively.

When it is thin before disciple how it'it repelled mho repelled a good, the bad, description.
His critique dawned as confident as his interdict was blunt and hither.
"i wear't cognize him.
 His eyes fell upon the book in front of him and he felt for and gripped the two upper
corners of it and, regardless of the common order and practice, read out the Benediction, changing
the words involuntarily as he read:

"The Blessing of God who is the Father, the Son, the Spirit and the King of all Mankind, be
upon you and remain with you for ever. Amen."

Then he looked again, as if to look once more upon that radiant vision of God, but now he saw
only the clear cool space of the cathedral vault and the coloured glass and tracery of the
great rose window. And then, as the first notes of the organ came pealing above the departing
stir of the congregation, he turned about and descended slowly, like one who is still half
dreaming, from the pulpit.

(13)

In the vestry he found Canon Bliss. "Help me to take off these garments," the bishop said.
"I shall never wear them again."

"You are ill," said the canon, scrutinizing his face.

"Not ill. But the word was taken out of my mouth. I perceive now that I have been in a trance,
a trance in which the truth is real. It is a fearful thing to find oneself among realities.
It is a dreadful thing when God begins to haunt a priest.... I can never minister in the church
again."

Whippham thrust forward a chair for the bishop to sit down. The bishop felt now extraordinarily
fatigued. He sat down heavily, and rested his wrists on the arms of the chair. "Already," he
resumed presently, "I begin to forget what it was I said."

"You became excited," said Bliss, "and spoke very loudly and clearly."

"What did I say?"

"I don't know what you said; I have forgotten. I never want to remember. Things about the Second
Advent. Dreadful things. You said God was close at hand. Happily you spoke partly in Greek.
I doubt if any of those children understood. And you had a kind of lapse--an aphasia. You mutilated
the interrogation and you did not pronounce the benediction properly. You changed words and
you put in words. One sat frozen--waiting for what would happen next."

"We must postpone the Pringle confirmation," said Whippham. "I wonder to whom I could telephone."

Lady Ella appeared, and came and knelt down by the bishop's chair. "I never ought to have let
this happen," she said, taking his wrists in her hands. "You are in a fever, dear."

"It seemed entirely natural to say what I did," the bishop declared.

Lady Ella looked up at Bliss.

"A doctor has been sent for," said the canon to Lady Ella.

"I must speak to the doctor," said Lady Ella as if her husband could not hear her. "There is
something that will make things clearer to the doctor. I must speak to the doctor for a moment
before he sees him."

Came a gust of pretty sounds and a flash of bright colour that shamed the rich vestments at
hand. Over the shoulder of the rector and quite at the back, appeared Lady Sunderbund resolutely
invading the vestry. The rector intercepted her, stood broad with extended arms.

"I must come in and speak to him. If it is only fo' a moment."

The bishop looked up and saw Lady Ella's expression. Lady Ella was sitting up very stiffly,
listening but not looking round.

A vague horror and a passionate desire to prevent the entry of Lady Sunderbund at any cost,
seized upon the bishop. She would, he felt, be the last overwhelming complication. He descended
to a base subterfuge. He lay back in his chair slowly as though he unfolded himself, he covered
his eyes with his hand and then groaned aloud.

"Leave me alone!" he cried in a voice of agony. "Leave me alone! I can see no one.... I can--no
more."

There was a momentous silence, and then the tumult of Lady Sunderbund receded.

CHAPTER THE EIGHTH - THE NEW WORLD

(1)

THAT night the bishop had a temperature of a hundred and a half. The doctor pronounced him
to be in a state of intense mental excitement, aggravated by some drug. He was a doctor modern
and clear-minded enough to admit that he could not identify the drug. He overruled, every one
overruled, the bishop's declaration that he had done with the church, that he could never mock
God with his episcopal ministrations again, that he must proceed at once with his resignation.
"Don't think of these things," said the doctor. "Banish them from your mind until your temperature
is down to ninety-eight. Then after a rest you may go into them."

Lady Ella insisted upon his keeping his room. It was with difficulty that he got her to admit
Whippham, and Whippham was exasperatingly in order. "You need not trouble about anything now,
my lord," he said. "Everything will keep until you are ready to attend to it. It's well we're
through with Easter. Bishop Buncombe of Eastern Blowdesia was coming here anyhow. And there
is Canon Bliss. There's only two ordination candidates because of the war. We'll get on swimmingly."

The bishop thought he would like to talk to those two ordination candidates, but they prevailed
upon him not to do so. He lay for the best part of one night confiding remarkable things to
two imaginary ordination candidates.

He developed a marked liking for Eleanor's company. She was home again now after a visit to
some friends. It was decided that the best thing to do with him would be to send him away in
her charge. A journey abroad was impossible. France would remind him too dreadfully of the
war. His own mind turned suddenly to the sweet air of Hunstanton. He had gone there at times
to read, in the old Cambridge days. "It is a terribly ugly place," he said, "but it is wine
in the veins."

Lady Ella was doubtful about Zeppelins. Thrice they had been right over Hunstanton already.
They came in by the easy landmark of the Wash.

"It will interest him," said Eleanor, who knew her father better.

(2)

One warm and still and sunny afternoon the bishop found himself looking out upon the waters
of the Wash. He sat where the highest pebble layers of the beach reached up to a little cliff
of sandy earth perhaps a foot high, and he looked upon sands and sea and sky and saw that they
were beautiful.

He was a little black-gaitered object in a scene of the most exquisite and delicate colour.
Right and left of him stretched the low grey salted shore, pale banks of marly earth surmounted
by green-grey wiry grass that held and was half buried in fine blown sand. Above, the heavens
made a complete hemisphere of blue in which a series of remote cumulus clouds floated and dissolved.
Before him spread the long levels of the sands, and far away at its utmost ebb was the sea.
Eleanor had gone to explore the black ribs of a wrecked fishing-boat that lay at the edge of
a shallow lagoon. She was a little pink-footed figure, very bright and apparently transparent.
She had reverted for a time to shameless childishness; she had hidden her stockings among the
reeds of the bank, and she was running to and fro, from star-fish to razor shell and from cockle
to weed. The shingle was pale drab and purple close at hand, but to the westward, towards Hunstanton,
the sands became brown and purple, and were presently broken up into endless skerries of low
flat weed-covered boulders and little intensely blue pools. The sea was a band of sapphire
that became silver to the west; it met the silver shining sands in one delicate breathing edge
of intensely white foam. Remote to the west, very small and black and clear against the afternoon
sky, was a cart, and about it was a score or so of mussel-gatherers. A little nearer, on an
apparently empty stretch of shining wet sand, a multitude of gulls was mysteriously busy. These
two groups of activities and Eleanor's flitting translucent movements did but set off and emphasize
the immense and soothing tranquillity.

For a long time the bishop sat passively receptive to this healing beauty. Then a little flow
of thought began and gathered in his mind. He had come out to think over two letters that he
had brought with him. He drew these now rather reluctantly from his pocket, and after a long
pause over the envelopes began to read them.

He reread Likeman's letter first.

Likeman could not forgive him.

"My dear Scrope," he wrote, "your explanation explains nothing. This sensational declaration
of infidelity to our mother church, made under the most damning and distressing circumstances
in the presence of young and tender minds entrusted to your ministrations, and in defiance
of the honourable engagements implied in the confirmation service, confirms my worst apprehensions
of the weaknesses of your character. I have always felt the touch of theatricality in your
temperament, the peculiar craving to be pseudo-deeper, pseudo-simpler than us all, the need
of personal excitement. I know that you were never quite contented to believe in God at second-hand.
You wanted to be taken notice of--personally. Except for some few hints to you, I have never
breathed a word of these doubts to any human being; I have always hoped that the ripening that
comes with years and experience would give you an increasing strength against the dangers of
emotionalism and against your strong, deep, quiet sense of your exceptional personal importance...."

The bishop read thus far, and then sat reflecting.

Was it just?

He had many weaknesses, but had he this egotism? No; that wasn't the justice of the case. The
old man, bitterly disappointed, was endeavouring to wound. Scrope asked himself whether he
was to blame for that disappointment. That was a more difficult question....

He dismissed the charge at last, crumpled up the letter in his hand, and after a moment's hesitation
flung it away.... But he remained acutely sorry, not so much for himself as for the revelation
of Likeman this letter made. He had had a great affection for Likeman and suddenly it was turned
into a wound.

(3)

The second letter was from Lady Sunderbund, and it was an altogether more remarkable document.
Lady Sunderbund wrote on a notepaper that was evidently the result of a perverse research,
but she wrote a letter far more coherent than her speech, and without that curious falling
away of the r's that flavoured even her gravest observations with an unjust faint aroma of
absurdity. She wrote with a thin pen in a rounded boyish handwriting. She italicized with slashes
of the pen.

He held this letter in both hands between his knees, and considered it now with an expression
that brought his eyebrows forward until they almost met, and that tucked in the corners of
his mouth.

"My dear Bishop," it began.

"I keep thinking and thinking and thinking of that wonderful service, of the wonderful, wonderful
things you said, and the wonderful choice you made of the moment to say them--when all those
young lives were coming to the great serious thing in life. It was most beautifully done. At
any rate, dear Bishop and Teacher, it was most beautifully begun. And now we all stand to you
like creditors because you have given us so much that you owe us ever so much more. You have
started us and you have to go on with us. You have broken the shell of the old church, and
here we are running about with nowhere to go. You have to make the shelter of a new church
now for us, purged of errors, looking straight to God. The King of Mankind!--what a wonderful,
wonderful phrase that is. It says everything. Tell us more of him and more. Count me first--not
foremost, but just the little one that runs in first--among your disciples. They say you are
resigning your position in the church. Of course that must be true. You are coming out of it--what
did you call it?--coming out of the cracked old vessel from which you have poured the living
waters. I called on Lady Ella yesterday. She did not tell me very much; I think she is a very
reserved as well as a very dignified woman, but she said that you intended to go to London.
In London then I suppose you will set up the first altar to the Divine King. I want to help.

"Dear Bishop and Teacher, I want to help tremendously--with all my heart and all my soul. I
want to be let do things for you." (The "you" was erased by three or four rapid slashes, and
"our King" substituted.)

"I want to be privileged to help build that First Church of the World Unified under God. It
is a dreadful thing to says but, you see, I am very rich; this dreadful war has made me ever
so much richer--steel and shipping and things--it is my trustees have done it. I am ashamed
to be so rich. I want to give. I want to give and help this great beginning of yours. I want
you to let me help on the temporal side, to make it easy for you to stand forth and deliver
your message, amidst suitable surroundings and without any horrid worries on account of the
sacrifices you have made. Please do not turn my offering aside. I have never wanted anything
so much in all my life as I want to make this gift. Unless I can make it I feel that for me
there is no salvation! I shall stick with my loads and loads of stocks and shares and horrid
possessions outside the Needle's Eye. But if I could build a temple for God, and just live
somewhere near it so as to be the poor woman who sweeps out the chapels, and die perhaps and
be buried under its floor! Don't smile at me. I mean every word of it. Years ago I thought
of such a thing. After I had visited the Certosa di Pavia--do you know it? So beautiful, and
those two still alabaster figures--recumbent. But until now I could never see my way to any
such service. Now I do. I am all afire to do it. Help me! Tell me! Let me stand behind you
and make your mission possible. I feel I have come to the most wonderful phase in my life.
I feel my call has come....

"I have written this letter over three times, and torn each of them up. I do so want to say
all this, and it is so desperately hard to say. I am full of fears that you despise me. I know
there is a sort of high colour about me. My passion for brightness. I am absurd. But inside
of me is a soul, a real, living, breathing soul. Crying out to you: 'Oh, let me help! Let me
help!' I will do anything, I will endure anything if only I can keep hold of the vision splendid
you gave me in the cathedral. I see it now day and night, the dream of the place I can make
for you--and you preaching! My fingers itch to begin. The day before yesterday I said to myself,
'I am quite unworthy, I am a worldly woman, a rich, smart, decorated woman. He will never accept
me as I am.' I took off all my jewels, every one, I looked through all my clothes, and at last
I decided I would have made for me a very simple straight grey dress, just simple and straight
and grey. Perhaps you will think that too is absurd of me, too self-conscious. I would not
tell of it to you if I did not want you to understand how alive I am to my utter impossibilities,
how resolved I am to do anything so that I may be able to serve. But never mind about silly
me; let me tell you how I see the new church.

"I think you ought to have some place near the centre of London; not too west, for you might
easily become fashionable, not too east because you might easily be swallowed up in merely
philanthropic work, but somewhere between the two. There must be vacant sites still to be got
round about Kingsway. And there we must set up your tabernacle, a very plain, very simple,
very beautifully proportioned building in which you can give your message. I know a young man,
just the very young man to do something of the sort, something quite new, quite modern, and
yet solemn and serious. Lady Ella seemed to think you wanted to live somewhere in the north-west
of London--but she would tell me very little. I seem to see you not there at all, not in anything
between west-end and suburb, but yourself as central as your mind, in a kind of clergy house
that will be part of the building. That is how it is in my dream anyhow. All that though can
be settled afterwards. My imagination and my desire is running away with me. It is no time
yet for premature plans. Not that I am not planning day and night. This letter is simply to
offer. I just want to offer. Here I am and all my worldly goods. Take me, I pray you. And not
only pray you. Take me, I demand of you, in the name of God our king. I have a right to be
used. And you have no right to refuse me. You have to go on with your message, and it is your
duty to take me--just as you are obliged to step on any steppingstone that lies on your way
to do God service.... And so I am waiting. I shall be waiting--on thorns. I know you will take
your time and think. But do not take too much time. Think of me waiting.

"Your servant, your most humble helper in God (your God),

"AGATHA SUNDERBUND."

And then scrawled along the margin of the last sheet:

"If, when you know--a telegram. Even if you cannot say so much as 'Agreed,' still such a word
as 'Favourable.' I just hang over the Void until I hear. 

"that is her girl," Ludlow said. He admitted the closely at the keeping
to the amusement, and looked, of a deal of mixed room and compassion,
"why, a pose seems with be bohemian to do this trying act!"

"and does she get more great smile of satisfaction out of it?"

 In many ways this proposal repelled and troubled him, in
many ways it attracted him. And the argument of his clear obligation to accept her co-operation
gripped him; it was a good argument.

And besides it worked in very conveniently with certain other difficulties that perplexed him.

(4)

The bishop became aware that Eleanor was returning to him across the sands. She had made an
end to her paddling, she had put on her shoes and stockings and become once more the grave
and responsible young woman who had been taking care of him since his flight from Princhester.
He replaced the two letters in his pocket, and sat ready to smile as she drew near; he admired
her open brow, the toss of her hair, and the poise of her head upon her neck. It was good to
note that her hard reading at Cambridge hadn't bent her shoulders in the least....

"Well, old Dad!" she said as she drew near. "You've got back a colour."

"I've got back everything. It's time I returned to Princhester."

"Not in this weather. Not for a day or so." She flung herself at his feet. "Consider your overworked
little daughter. Oh,how good this is!"

"No," said the bishop in a grave tone that made her look up into his face. "I must go hack."

He met her clear gaze. "What do you think of all this business, Eleanor?" he asked abruptly.
"Do you think I had a sort of fit in the cathedral?"

He winced as he asked the question.

