"

"Sophy, come to me," called her husband, in feeble tones.

She left the captain, and returned at once to his side. The low berth was almost on the floor,
and she had to kneel to bring her face nearer to his. It was night, and the only light was
the dim glimmer of an oil-lamp, which the captain had hung to the ceiling, and which swung
to and fro with the lurching of the ship. The wind was whistling shrilly among the rigging,
and every plank and board in the vessel groaned and creaked under the beating of the waves.
Now and then her feet were ankle-deep in water, and she dreaded to see it sweep over the low
berth. In the rare intervals of the storm she could hear the hurried movements overhead, and
the shouts of the sailors as they called to one another from the rigging. But vaguely she heard,
and saw, and felt. Her husband's face, white and haggard and thin, with his gray hair and his
eyes sunken with unshed tears, was all that she could distinctly realize.

"Sophy," he said, "do not leave me again."

He held out his hand, and she laid hers into it, shuddering as she felt its chilly grasp. Her
head fell on to the pillow beside his, and her lips, close to his ear, spoke to him through sobs.

"Is there nothing that can be done?" she cried. "It is I who have killed you. Must you really
die for my sin, and leave us?"

"I think I must die," he said, touching her head softly with his feeble hand. "I would live
for you if I could--for you and my poor boy. Sophy, promise me while I can hear you, while
you can speak to me, promise me you will never fall into this sin again."

"How can I?" she cried. "I have killed you, and now who will care?"

"God will care," he said, faintly, "and I shall care; wherever I may be I shall care. Promise
me, my darling, my poor girl!"

"I promise you," she answered, with a deep sob.

"You will never let yourself enter into temptation?"

"Never!" she cried.

"Never taste it; never look at it; never think of it, if possible. Promise," he whispered again.

"Never!" she sobbed; "never! Oh, live, and you shall see me conquer. God will help me to conquer,
and you will help me. Do not leave us. O God, do not let him die!"

But he did not hear her. A faintness and numbness that seemed like death, which had been creeping
languidly through his veins for some time, darkened his eyes and sealed his lips. He could
not see her, and her voice sounded far away. She called again and again upon him, but there
was no answer. The deep roar of the storm on the other side of the frail wooden walls thundered
continuously, and the groan of the straining planks grated upon her ear as she listened intently
for one or more word from him. Was she then alone with him, dying? Was there no help, nothing
that could be at least attempted for his help? Through the uproar and tumult she caught the
sound of some one stirring in the saloon. She sprang to the door, and met Captain Scott on
the point of opening it.

"Come," said she frantic with terror; "he is dead already."

The captain bent over the dying man, and with the promptitude of one to whom time was of the
utmost value passed his hand rapidly over his benumbed and paralyzed body.

"No, not dead," he exclaimed; "but he's sinking fast, and there's only one remedy. You can
leave him to die, or you can save him, Mrs. Chantrey. There is no one else to nurse him, and
every moment is precious to me. Here's a brandy-flask. Give him some at once; force a few drops
through his teeth, and watch the effect it has upon him. As he swallows it give him a little
more every few minutes. Watch him carefully; it will be life or death with him. If I can get
down again I'll come in to see you, but I am badly wanted on deck this moment. There's enough
there, but not too much, remember. Get him warm, if possible. God bless you, Mrs. Chantrey."

He had been busily heaping rugs and blankets upon his friend's insensible form; and now, with
a hearty grasp of the hand, and an earnest glance into her face, he hurried away, leaving Sophy
alone once more.

A shudder of terror ran through her, and she called to him not to leave her; but he did not
hear. She stood in the middle of the cabin, looking around as if for help, but there was none.
The craving, which had been starved within her by the forced abstinence of the last few weeks,
awoke again with insufferable fierceness. She was cold herself, chilled to the very heart;
her misery of body and soul were extreme. The dim light and the ceaseless roar of the storm
oppressed her. The very scent of the brandy seemed to intoxicate her, and steal away her resolution.
If she took but a very little of it, she reasoned with herself, she would be better fitted
for the long, exhausting task of watching her husband. How would she have strength to stand
over him through the cold, dark hours of the night, feeble and worn out as she already felt
herself? For his sake, then, she must taste it; she would take but a very little. The captain
had said there was not more than enough; but surely he would give her more, to save her husband's
life. Only a little, just to stay the intolerable craving.

Sophy poured out a small, portion into the little horn belonging to the flask. The strong spirituous
scent excited her. How warm, and strong, and useful it would make her to her husband in his
extremity! Yet still she hesitated. Suppose she could not resist the temptation to take more,
and yet more, until she lost her consciousness, and left him to perish with cold and faintness?
She knew how often she had resolved to take but a taste, enough to drive away the painful dejection
of the passing hour; and how fatally her resolution had failed her, when once she had yielded.
If she should fail now, if the temptation conquered her, there was no shadow of a hope for
him. When she came to her senses again he would be dead.

Why did not somebody come to her help? Where was Ann Holland, that she should be away just
at the very moment when her presence was most desirable and most necessary? How could Captain
Scott think of trusting her with poison? How could she do battle with so close and subtle a
tempter? So long a battle, too; though all the dreary hours of the storm! Only a little while
ago she had made a solemn promise never to fall into this sin, never to enter into temptation.
But she had been thrust into temptation unawares, in an instant, with no one to help her, and
no time to gather strength for resistance. Even David himself could not blame her if she broke
her promise. It should be only a taste; it could not be more than that, for the flask was not
full; and now she came to think of it she could not get on deck to ask the captain for more,
because the hatches were closed. That would save her from taking too much. She would keep the
thought before her that every drop she swallowed was taken from her dying husband, for whom
there was barely enough. She could only taste it, and she did it for his sake, not her own.

She lifted the little horn to her lips; but before tasting the stimulant, she glanced round,
as she had often done before, to see if any one was looking at her; a stealthy cunning movement,
born of the sense of shame she had never quite lost. Every nerve was quivering with excitement,
and her heart was beating quickly. But her glance fell upon her husband's face turned toward
her, yet with no watchful, reproachful eyes fastened upon her. The eyelids half closed; the
pallid, hollow cheeks; the head fallen back upon the pillow, looked like death. Was he then
gone from her already? Had she suffered his flickering life to die out altogether, while she
had been dallying with temptation? With a wild and very bitter cry Sophy Chantrey sprang to
his side, and forced a few drops of the eau-de-vie between his clenched teeth. Again and again,
patiently, she repeated her efforts, watching eagerly for the least sign of returning animation.
Every thought of herself was gone now; she became absorbed between alternate hope and dread.
He was alive still; slowly the death-like pallor was passing away, faint tokens of returning
circulation tingled through his benumbed veins. The beating of his heart was stronger, and
his hands seemed less icily cold. But so slowly, and with so many intermissions, did the change
creep on, that she did not dare to assure herself that he was reviving. Now and then the scent
made her feel sick with terror; for she knew that his life depended upon her unceasing attention,
and the tempter was still beside her, though thrust back for the time by her newly-awakened
will. "I will not let him die!" she cried to herself; yet she was inwardly fearful of failing
in her resolution, and leaving him to die. Would the daylight never come? Would the storm never
cease?

It was raging more wildly than ever; and Captain Scott found it impossible to go below, even
though his friend was probably dying. Sophy was left absolutely alone. It seemed to her like
an eternity, as she knelt beside her husband, desperately, fighting against sin, and intently
watching for some sure sign of life in him. He was not dead, that was almost all she knew.
The night was dark still, and very lonely. There was no one who saw her, none to care for her;
and her misery was very great.

Was there none who cared? A still small voice in her own soul, long unheard, but speaking clearly
through the din of the storm around and within her, asked, "Does not Christ care? He who came
to seek and to save that which was lost? He whom God sent into the world to be the Captain
of salvation, and to suffer being tempted, that He might be able to succor all those who are
tempted?" For a moment she listened breathlessly as if some new thing had been said to her.
Christ really cared for her; really knew her extremity in this dire temptation; was ready with
His help, if she would but have it. Could it be true? If He were beside her, witnessing her
temptation and her struggling, seeing and entering into all the bitterness of the passing hours,
why! then such a presence and such a sympathy were a thousand times greater and better than
if all the world beside had been by to cheer her. Why had she never realized this before? He
knew; God knew; she was not alone, because the Father Himself was with her.

She had no time to pray consciously, in so many words of set speech; but her whole heart was
full of prayer and hope. The terror of temptation was gone; nay, for the time, the temptation
itself was gone, for she was lifted up far above it. She could use the powerful remedy on which
her husband's life depended with no danger to herself. Her thoughts ran busily forward into
a blissful future. How happy they would all be again! How diligently she would guard herself!
Her life henceforth should be spent as under the eye of God.

At last the morning dawned, and a gray light stole even through the darkened portholes--a faint
light, but sufficient for her to see her husband's face more clearly. His heart beat under
her hand with more vigor, and the color had come back to his lips. She could see now how every
drop he swallowed brought, a more healthy hue to his face. He had attempted to speak more than
once, but she laid her hand on his mouth to enforce silence until his strength was more equal
to the effort. At last he whispered earnestly that she could not refuse to listen.

"Sophy," he said, "is it safe for you?"

"Yes," she answered; "God has made it safe for me."

CHAPTER XVIII.

SAVED

The gale off the Cape of Good Hope was weathered at last, and the vessel sailed into smoother
seas. The bitterness of the cold was over, and only fresh invigorating breezes swept across
the water. Nothing could have been more helpful toward Mr. Chantrey's recovery, except his
new freedom from sorrow. His trouble had passed away like the storm. He could not but trust
that the same strength which had been given to his wife in her hour of fiercest temptation
would be still granted to her in ordinary trials, from which he could not always shield her.
Sophy herself was full of hope. She felt her will, so long enslaved, regaining its former freedom,
and her brain recovering its old clearness. The pleasures and duties of life had once more
a charm for her. It was as though some madness and delusion had passed away, and she was once
more in her right mind.

The voyage between Australia and New Zealand, taken in a crowded and comfortless steamer, was
a severe testing time for her. It lasted for several days, and she could not be kept from the
influence of the drinking customs of those on board. But she never quitted the side either
of her husband or Ann Holland. In New Zealand, where no one knew the story of her past life,
except Mr. Warden, it was more easy to face the future, and to carry out the reformation begun
in her. They were poor, far poorer than she had ever expected to be, and she had harder work
than she had been accustomed to do; but such exertions were beneficial to her. Ann Holland,
as a matter of course, lived with them in their little home, from which Mr. Chantrey was often
absent while visiting the distant portions of his large parish, which extended over many miles.
But Ann was not left to do all the drudgery of the household unaided. Sophy Chantrey would
take her share in her every duty, and seldom sat down to sew or write unless Ann was ready
to rest also. The old want of something to do could never revisit her; the old sense of loneliness
could not come back. There was her boy to teach, and her simple, homely neighbors to associate
with. The customs and conventionalities of English life had no force here, and she was free
to act as she pleased. As the years passed by, David Chantrey lost forever a secret lurking
dread lest his wife's sin should be only biding its time. He could go away in peace, and return
home gladly, having almost forgotten the reason of his exchanging the pleasant rectory of Upton
for the hard work of a colonial living.

From time to time letters reached them from Mrs. Bolton, complaining bitterly of the changes
introduced by the new rector, whose customs and opinions constantly clashed with her own. She
found herself put on one side, and quietly neglected in all questions concerning the parish;
while her influence gradually died away. Again and again she urged her nephew to return to
England, promising that she would make him her heir, and procure for him a living as valuable
as the one he had resigned. She could not understand that to a man like David Chantrey the
calm happy consciousness of days well spent, and the grateful remembrance of a terrible sorrow
having been removed, were better than anything earth could give. The old pride he had once
felt in his social position and personal popularity could never lift up its crest again. He
had gone down to the Valley of Humiliation, and there, to his surprise, he found "that the
air was pleasant, and that here a man shall be free from the noise and hurryings of this life,
and shall not be let and hindered in his contemplation, as in other places he is apt to be."
His laborious simple life suited him, and no entreaties or promises of Mrs. Bolton could recall
him to England.

Eight tranquil years had passed by when Sophy Chantrey detected in her husband a degree of
preoccupation and reticence that had long been unusual to him. For a few days he kept the secret;
but at last, just as she began to feel she could bear his reserve no longer he spoke out.

"Sophy," he said, "I have had some letters from England."

"From Aunt Bolton?" she asked, with a faint undertone of vexation in her voice, for Mrs. Bolton's
letters always revived bitter memories in her mind.

"No," he answered, holding out to her a large bulky packet; "they are from the bishop--our
English bishop, you know--just a few lines; and from the Upton people. It seems that the living
is about to be vacant again, for Seymour has had a very good one presented to him in the north;
and the parishioners have petitioned the bishop, and petitioned me to accept the charge again.
See, here are hundreds of signatures, and the churchwardens tell me every man and woman in
the parish would have signed if there had been room. The bishop speaks very kindly about it,
too, and they want my answer by the mail going out next week."

"And what will you say?" asked Sophy breathlessly.

"It is for you to say," he answered; "you must decide. Could you go back happily, Sophy? As
for me, I never loved, or shall love, any place like Upton. I dream of it often. Yet I could
not return to it at any great cost to you, be sure of that. You must answer the question. We
have been very happy together here, all of us; and you and I have been truer Christians than
perhaps we could ever have been if we had stayed at home. If you decide to settle here, I for
one will never regret it."

"Would it be safe for me to go back?" she faltered.

"As safe for you as for me," he answered emphatically; "do not be afraid of that. A sin conquered
and uprooted, as yours has been, is less likely to overcome us than some new temptation. I
have no fear of that."

For the next few days Sophy Chantrey went through her daily work as in a dream. There were
many things to weigh and consider, and her husband left her to herself, acting as if he had
dismissed the subject altogether from his mind. For herself she shrank from returning among
the people who had known her in her worst days, and whose curious suspicious eyes would be
always watching her, and bringing to her mind sad recollections. She knew well that all her
life long there would be the memory of her sin kept alive in the hearts of her husband's parishioners
if he went back as rector of Upton. Yet she could not resolve to banish him from the place
he loved so well, and the people who were so eager to have him with them again as their pastor.
There was nothing to be dreaded on account of his health, which was fully reestablished. There
was her boy, too, who was growing old enough to require better teaching than they could secure
for him in the colony. Ann Holland would be overjoyed to think of seeing Upton again, and to
return to her old friends and townsfolk. No; they must not be doomed to continual exile for
her sake. She must take up the cross that lay before her, from which she had so long escaped,
and be willing to bear the penalty of her transgressions, learning that no sins, though forgiven,
can be blotted out as far as their consequences are concerned--can never be, through endless
years, as though they had never been.

"We must go home to Upton," she said to her husband the evening before the mail left for England.
"I have considered everything, and we must go."

"Willingly, Sophy? Gladly?" he asked, looking keenly into her face, so changed from when he
had seen it first. What lines there were upon it which ought not to have been there so early,
he knew well. How different it was from the fair fresh face of his young wife when they first
went home to Upton Rectory. Yet he loved her better now than then.

