At the beginning of the Revolutionary War, large sums had been due British exporters and factors
by American planters and traders, because of the commercial system in vogue at that time. The
war gave excuse to unscrupulous debtors to withhold payment. Associations were formed in many
communities to adopt this form of retaliation, although discountenanced by the better classes.
At the close of the war, it was said that there was not sufficient money in circulation to
discharge these long-due obligations. Jefferson estimated the debts due British merchants in
Virginia alone at thirty times the amount of money in circulation in the State. Many States
had passed stay laws against executions to recover such debts and had thrown other legal obstructions
in the way of the British creditors. Claim was made not only for the original amount of the
debts, but for back interest as well. The American merchants rejoined that they could pay neither
principal nor interest until they had been compensated for their slaves carried away by the
British Army and the Tories at the end of the war and contrary to the terms of the treaty of
peace. The labour of these slaves, they said, would enable them to pay the debts.

Undoubtedly American statesmen wished to sustain inviolate the provisions of the treaty, not
only by preventing the States from interfering with the collection of valid debts, but also
by protecting the Loyalists or Tories, as the treaty demanded. The English negotiators, having
small experience with a Confederation, supposed that the clause in the treaty binding Congress
to recommend actions to the several State Legislatures was equivalent to a warrant. It was
agreed that the privilege should be granted to any person to go into and remain twelve months
in any part of the United States to regain his property by law. The treaty provided further
that Congress would recommend to the States the restoration of all property to former owners
upon payment of the bona fide price which the present possessors paid for it after confiscation.
The treaty also implicitly promised that there should be no more confiscations or prosecutions.
The several provisions for the alleviation of these Loyalists indicate slightly the misfortunes
into which their action brought them. Their treatment both officially and by the mob has been
described by some foreign writers as the darkest page in American history. But they had choice
of sides in the issue. Granted that they supposed they were right in upholding government against
rebellion; yet the law of consequences accepts no excuse for over-conservatism. He who fails
to keep step with the march of events falls behind and suffers the consequences. The Loyalists
were on the losing side and suffered the common fate of the conquered.

War is abnormal. It undermines ideas of justice prevalent in time of peace. Thus it came about
that the treatment of the Loyalists reacted unfortunately on the patriots. They had harried
the royal sympathisers out of the land. They had grown accustomed to using force and could
not readily return to law-abiding methods. They would not obey even the provisions of a national
treaty. The Articles of Confederation, under which they were attempting to live in concord,
kept a State from laying a duty which would interfere with the proposed treaties with France
and Spain. Otherwise there was no compulsion aside from the moral obligation attached to a
treaty. However, John Jay, Secretary of Foreign Affairs, acting in the capacity of an Attorney-General,
rendered an opinion that no State according to the Articles could disobey or even interpret
the provisions of a national treaty. Congress adopted resolutions to the same effect. But without
coercive power, resolutions of Congress were idle as the wind. Jay confessed to Jefferson in
France, his fears that "some of the States had gone so far in their deviations from the treaty
that I fear they will not easily be persuaded to tread back their steps." He also stated his
conviction after investigation that there had not been a single day since the treaty had been
signed in which it had not been broken by some State. In this manner, a series of unfortunate
diplomatic complications turned upon the British possession of the American forts along the
frontier.

Nor was the impotence of the new nation exhibited toward England only in the western country.
Because it drained almost the whole of the great inland valley, forming with its tributaries
a network of ready-made highways, the Mississippi River assumed an importance to the trans-Alleghanian
settlers which is lost in these days of artificial means of transportation. As Madison once
said, "It is the Hudson, the Delaware, the Potomac, and all the navigable waters of the Atlantic
States formed into one stream." It is true that the freedom of navigating the Great Lakes and
the St. Lawrence was secured to these western people by the Treaty of 1783, but these ways
to the sea were closed by ice during a portion of the year and were impeded by falls. The lower
Mississippi, on the other hand, had neither of these obstructions to navigation. Near its mouth
was the city of New Orleans, where ocean vessels lay ready to receive western products. The
current made easy the voyage thither. For twenty years the traditionally easy-going Spaniard
had held the mouth of the river, placing severe restrictions upon foreign traders, but too
indolent to enforce them.

Great Britain and the United States had ignored Spain when they declared in the treaty of peace
that the Mississippi, from its source to the Gulf, should remain for ever free and open to
citizens of both countries. Perhaps because she was disappointed in not getting a portion of
the middle valley away from the Americans in the course of the peace negotiations, Spain soon
began to show that she was at least mistress of the lower part of the river. Just where her
dominion began was uncertain. During the war, a Virginia captain raised his colours on the
Mississippi a few miles above Natchez. A Spanish commandant buried a box near the same spot
with the colours of his sovereign as a token of possession. After 1783, the flatboatmen, who
adventured down the river with loads of tobacco, flour, or planks, seeking a market at New
Orleans or adjacent settlements, found at the Walnut Bluffs, about ten miles below the mouth
of the Yazoo River, a post of Spanish customs guards. These bade them lower their flag and
put themselves under the protection of the governor of Natchez before proceeding. If the goods
escaped paying a duty at this place, they were examined a second time when they reached the
group of about one hundred houses, crowning the bluff, which constituted the city of Natchez.
On a prominent point, commanding a view of the river for many miles, stood the governor's palace
and the fort, at which were usually stationed about a score of Spanish troops.

The hardy frontiersmen, who escaped the perils of navigating the river as far as Natchez, bore
the inspection and frequent seizure of their goods as a great hardship and unwarrantable action.
Scarcely had trade opened after the war before Congress received a complaint from one Fowler
that his flatboat loaded with produce for the New Orleans market had been seized for refusal
to pay duties at Natchez. A few months later, Thomas Amis, a North Carolina trader, reported
the seizure of his stock at the same point, consisting of 142 Dutch ovens, 53 pots and kettles,
34 skillets, 33 cast boxes, 3 pairs dog irons, a pair of flat irons, a spice mortar, a plough
mould, and 50 barrels of flour.

