The desire of studying and becoming acquainted with the Roman religion, determined Lord Nelville
to seek an opportunity of hearing some of those preachers who make the churches of this city
resound with their eloquence during Lent. He reckoned the days that were to divide him from
Corinne, and during her absence, he wished to see nothing that appertained to the fine arts;
nothing that derived its charm from the imagination. He could not support the emotion of pleasure
produced by the masterpieces of art when he was not with Corinne; he was only reconciled to
happiness when she was the cause of it. Poetry, painting, music, all that embellishes life
by vague hopes, was painful to him out of her presence.

It is in the evening, with lights half extinguished, that the Roman preachers deliver their
sermons in Holy Week. All the women are then clad in black, in remembrance of the death of
Jesus Christ, and there is something very moving in this anniversary mourning, which has been
so often renewed during a lapse of ages. It is therefore impossible to enter without genuine
emotion those beautiful churches, where the tombs so fitly dispose the soul for prayer; but
this emotion is generally destroyed in a few moments by the preacher.

His pulpit is a fairly long gallery, which he traverses from one end to the other with as much
agitation as regularity. He never fails to set out at the beginning of a phrase and to return
at the end, like the motion of a pendulum; nevertheless he uses so much action, and his manner
is so vehement, that one would suppose him capable of forgetting everything. But it is, to
use the expression, a kind of systematic fury that animates the orator, such as is frequently
to be met with in Italy, where the vivacity of external action often indicates no more than
a superficial emotion. A crucifix is suspended at the extremity of the pulpit; the preacher
unties it, kisses it, presses it against his heart, and then restores it to its place with
the greatest coolness, when the pathetic period is concluded. There is a means of producing
effect which the ordinary preachers frequently have recourse to, namely, the square cap they
wear on their head, which they take off, and put on again with inconceivable rapidity. One
of them imputed to Voltaire, and particularly to Rousseau, the irreligion of the age. He threw
his cap into the middle of the pulpit, charging it to represent Jean Jacques, and in this quality
he harangued it, saying; "Well, philosopher of Geneva, what have you to object to my arguments?"
He was silent for some minutes as if he waited for a reply--the cap made no answer: he then
put it upon his head again and finished the conversation in these words: "now that you are
convinced I shall say no more."

These whimsical scenes are often repeated among the Roman preachers; for real talent in this
department is here very scarce. Religion is respected in Italy as an omnipotent law; it captivates
the imagination by its forms and ceremonies, but moral tenets are less attended to in the pulpit
than dogmas of faith, which do not penetrate the heart with religious sentiments. Thus the
eloquence of the pulpit, as well as several other branches of literature, is absolutely abandoned
to common ideas, which neither paint nor express any thing. A new thought would cause almost
a panic in those minds at once so indolent and so full of ardour that they need the calm of
uniformity, which they love because it offers repose to their thoughts. The ideas and phraseology
of their sermons are confined to a sort of etiquette. They follow almost in a regular sequence,
and this order would be disturbed if the orator, speaking from himself, were to seek in his
own mind what he should say. The Christian philosophy, whose aim is to discover the analogy
between religion and human nature, is as little known to the Italian preachers as any other
kind of philosophy. To think upon matters of religion would scandalise them as much as to think
against it; so much are they accustomed to move in a beaten track.

The worship of the Blessed Virgin is particularly dear to the Italians, and to every other
nation of the south; it seems in some manner united with all that is most pure and tender in
the affection we feel for woman. But the same exaggerated figures of rhetoric are found in
what the preachers say upon this subject; and it is impossible to conceive why their gestures
do not turn all that is most serious into mockery. Hardly ever in Italy do we meet in the august
function of the pulpit, with a true accent or a natural expression.

Oswald, weary of the most tiresome of all monotony--that of affected vehemence, went to the
Coliseum, to hear the Capuchin who was to preach there in the open air, at the foot of one
of those altars which mark out, within the enclosure, what is called the Stations of the Cross.
What can offer a more noble subject of eloquence than the aspect of this monument, of this
amphitheatre, where the martyrs have succeeded to the gladiators! But nothing of this kind
must be expected from the poor Capuchin, who, of the history of mankind, knows no more than
that of his own life. Nevertheless, if we could be insensible to the badness of his discourse,
we should feel ourselves moved by the different objects that surround him. The greater part
of his auditors are of the confraternity of the Camaldoli; they are clad during their religious
exercises in a sort of grey robe, which entirely covers the head and the whole body, with two
little holes for the eyes. It is thus that the spirits of the dead might be represented. These
men, who are thus concealed beneath their vestments, prostrate themselves on the earth and
strike their breasts. When the preacher throws himself on his knees crying for mercy and pity,
the congregation throw themselves on their knees also, and repeat this same cry, which dies
away beneath the ancient porticoes of the Coliseum. It is impossible at this moment not to
feel the most religious emotion; this appeal from earthly misery to celestial good, penetrates
to the inmost sanctuary of the soul. Oswald started when all the audience fell on their knees;
he remained standing, not to join in a worship foreign to his own; but it was painful to him
that he could not associate publicly with mortals of any description, who prostrated themselves
before God. Alas! is there an invocation of heavenly pity that is not equally suited to all men?

The people had been struck with the fine figure and foreign manners of Lord Nelville, but were
by no means scandalized at his not kneeling down. There are no people in the world more tolerant
than the Romans; they are accustomed to visitors who come only to see and observe; and whether
by an effect of pride or of indolence, they never seek to instil their opinions into others.
What is more extraordinary still, is, that during Holy Week particularly, there are many among
them who inflict corporal punishment upon themselves; and while they are performing this flagellation,
the church-doors are open, and they care not who enters. They are a people who do not trouble
their heads about others; they do nothing to be looked at; they refrain from nothing because
they are observed; they always proceed to their object, and seek their pleasure without suspecting
that there is a sentiment called vanity, which has no object, no pleasure, except the desire
of being applauded.

Chapter iii.

