161. Since times in like manner are settled and constant, they also are a property of nature;
for the length of a day is constantly twenty-four hours, and the length of a year is constantly
three hundred and sixty-five days and a quarter. The very states of light and shade, and of
heat and cold, which cause these periods to vary, are also regular in their return. The states
which recur daily are morning, noon, evening, and night; those recurring yearly are spring,
summer, autumn, and winter. Moreover, the annual states modify regularly the daily states.
All these states are likewise dead because they are not states of life, as in the spiritual
world; for in the spiritual world there is continuous light and there is continuous heat, the
light corresponding to the state of wisdom, and the heat to the state of love with the angels;
consequently the states of these are living.

162. From all this the folly of those who ascribe all things to nature can be seen. Those who
have confirmed themselves in favor of nature have brought such a state on themselves that they
are no longer willing to raise the mind above nature; consequently their minds are shut above
and opened below. Man thus becomes sensual-natural, that is, spiritually dead; and because
he then thinks only from such things as he has imbibed from his bodily senses, or through the
senses from the world, he at heart even denies God. Then because conjunction with heaven is
broken, conjunction with hell takes place, the capacity to think and will alone remaining;
the capacity to think, from rationality, and the capacity to will, from freedom; these two
capacities every man has from the Lord, nor are they taken away. These two capacities devils
have equally with angels; but devils devote them to insane thinking and evil doing, and angels
to becoming wise and doing good.

163. WITHOUT A DOUBLE SUN, ONE LIVING AND THE OTHER DEAD, NO CREATION IS POSSIBLE.

The universe in general is divided into two worlds, the spiritual and the natural. In the spiritual
world are angels and spirits, in the natural world men. In external appearance these two worlds
are entirely alike, so alike that they cannot be distinguished; but as to internal appearance
they are entirely unlike. The men themselves in the spiritual world, who (as was said above)
are called angels and spirits, are spiritual, and, being spiritual, they think spiritually
and speak spiritually. But the men of the natural world are natural, and therefore think naturally
and speak naturally; and spiritual thought and speech have nothing in common with natural thought
and speech. From this it is plain that these two worlds, the spiritual and the natural, are
entirely distinct from each other, so that they can in no respect be together.

164. Now as these two worlds are so distinct, it is necessary that there should be two suns,
one from which all spiritual things are, and another from which all natural things are. And
as all spiritual things in their origin are living, and all natural things from their origin
are dead, and these origins are suns, it follows that the one sun is living and the other dead;
also, that the dead sun itself was created by the Lord through the living sun.

165. A dead sun was created to this end, that in outmosts all things may be fixed, settled,
and constant, and thus there may be forms of existence which shall be permanent and durable.
In this and in no other way is creation founded. The terraqueous globe, in which, upon which,
and about which, things exist, is a kind of base and support; for it is the outmost work [ultimum
opus], in which all things terminate, and upon which they rest. It is also a kind of matrix,
out of which effects, which are ends of creation, are produced, as will be shown in what follows.

166. That all things were created by the Lord through the living sun, and nothing through the
dead sun, can be seen from this, that what is living disposes what is dead in obedience to
itself, and forms it for uses, which are its ends; but not the reverse. Only a person bereft
of reason and who is ignorant of what life is, can think that all things are from nature, and
that life even comes from nature. Nature cannot dispense life to anything, since nature in
itself is wholly inert. For what is dead to act upon what is living, or for dead force to act
upon living force, or, what is the same, for the natural to act upon the spiritual, is entirely
contrary to order, therefore so to think is contrary to the light of sound reason. What is
dead, that is, the natural, may indeed in many ways be perverted or changed by external accidents,
but it cannot act upon life; on the contrary life acts into it, according to the induced change
of form. It is the same with physical influx into the spiritual operations of the soul; this,
it is known, does not occur, for it is not possible.

167. THE END OF CREATION HAS FORM [existat] IN OUTMOSTS, WHICH END IS THAT ALL THINGS MAY RETURN
TO THE CREATOR AND THAT THERE MAY BE CONJUNCTION.

In the first place, something shall be said about ends. There are three things that follow
in order, called first end, middle end, and last end; they are also called end, cause, and
effect. These three must be together in every thing, that it may be anything. For a first end
without a middle end, and at the same time a last end, is impossible; or, what is the same,
an end alone, without a cause and an effect is impossible. Equally impossible is a cause alone
without an end from which and an effect in which it is, or an effect alone, that is, an effect
without its cause and end. That this is so may be comprehended if it be observed that an end
without an effect, that is, separated from an effect, is a thing without existence, and therefore
a mere term. For in order that an end may actually be an end it must be terminated, and it
is terminated in its effect, wherein it is first called an end because it is an end. It appears
as if the agent or the efficient exists by itself; but this so appears from its being in the
effect; but if separated from the effect it would instantly vanish. From all this it is evident
that these three, end, cause, and effect, must be in every thing to make it anything.

168. It must be known further, that the end is everything in the cause, and also everything
in the effect; from this it is that end, cause, and effect, are called first end, middle end,
and last end. But that the end may be everything in the cause, there must be something from
the end [in the cause] wherein the end shall be; and that the end may be everything in the
effect, there must be something from the end through the cause [in the effect] wherein the
end shall be. For the end cannot be in itself alone, but it must be in something having existence
from it, in which it can dwell as to all that is its own, and by acting, come into effect,
until it has permanent existence. That in which it has permanent existence is the last end,
which is called effect.

169. These three, namely, end, cause, and effect, are in the created universe, both in its
greatest and least parts. They are in the greatest and least parts of the created universe,
because they are in God the Creator, who is the Lord from eternity. But since He is Infinite,
and in the Infinite in finite things are one distinctly (as was shown above, n. 17-22), therefore
also these three in Him, and in His infinites, are one distinctly. From this it is that the
universe which was created from His Esse, and which, regarded as to uses, is His image, possesses
these three in each and all of its parts.

170. The universal end, that is, the end of all things of creation, is that there may be an
eternal conjunction of the Creator with the created universe; and this is not possible unless
there are subjects wherein His Divine can be as in Itself, thus in which it can dwell and abide.
In order that these subjects may be dwelling-places and mansions of Him, they must be recipients
of His love and wisdom as of themselves; such, therefore, as will elevate themselves to the
Creator as of themselves, and conjoin themselves with Him. Without this ability to reciprocate
no conjunction is possible. These subjects are men, who are able as of themselves to elevate
and conjoin themselves. That men are such subjects, and that they are recipients of the Divine
as of themselves, has been pointed out above many times. By means of this conjunction, the
Lord is present in every work created by Him; for everything has been created for man as its
end; consequently the uses of all created things ascend by degrees from outmosts to man, and
through man to God the Creator from whom [are all things] (as was shown above, n. 65-68).

171. To this last end creation progresses continually, through these three, namely, end, cause,
and effect, because these three are in the Lord the Creator (as was said just above); and the
Divine apart from space is in all space (n. 69-72); and is the same in things greatest and
least (77 - 82); from which it is evident that the created universe, in its general progression
to its last end, is relatively the middle end. For out of the earth forms of uses are continually
raised by the Lord the Creator, in their order up to man, who as to his body is also from the
earth. Thereafter, man is elevated by the reception of love and wisdom from the Lord; and for
this reception of love and wisdom, all means are provided; and he has been so made as to be
able to receive, if he will. From what has now been said it can be seen, though as yet only
in a general manner, that the end of creation takes form [existat] in outmost things; which
end is, that all things may return to the Creator, and that there may be conjunction.

172. That these three, end, cause, and effect, are in each and every thing created, can also
be seen from this, that all effects, which are called last ends, become anew first ends in
uninterrupted succession from the First, who is the Lord the Creator, even to the last end,
which is the conjunction of man with Him. That all last ends become anew first ends is plain
from this, that there can be nothing so inert and dead as to have no efficient power in it.
Even out of sand there is such an exhalation as gives aid in producing, and therefore in effecting
something.

173. PART THIRD.

IN THE SPIRITUAL WORLD THERE ARE ATMOSPHERES, WATERS AND LANDS, JUST AS IN THE NATURAL WORLD;
ONLY THE FORMER ARE SPIRITUAL, WHILE THE LATTER ARE NATURAL.

It has been said in the preceding pages, and shown in the work Heaven and Hell, that the spiritual
world is like the natural world, with the difference only that each and every thing of the
spiritual world is spiritual, and each and every thing of the natural world is natural. As
these two worlds are alike, there are in both, atmospheres, waters, and lands, which are the
generals through and from which each and all things take their form [existunt] with infinite
variety.

174. As regards the atmospheres, which are called ethers and airs, they are alike in both worlds,
the spiritual and the natural, with the difference only that they are spiritual in the spiritual
world, and natural in the natural world. The former are spiritual, because they have their
form from the sun which is the first proceeding of the Divine Love and Divine Wisdom of the
Lord, and from Him receive within them the Divine fire which is love, and the Divine light
which is wisdom, and carry these down to the heavens where the angels dwell, and cause the
presence of that sun there in things greatest and least. The spiritual atmospheres are divided
substances, that is, least forms, originating from the sun. As these each singly receive the
sun, its fire, distributed among so many substances, that is, so many forms, and as it were
enveloped by them, and tempered by these envelopments, becomes heat, adapted finally to the
love of angels in heaven and of spirits under heaven. The same is true of the light of that
sun. In this the natural atmospheres are like spiritual atmospheres, that they also are divided
substances or least forms originating from the sun of the natural world; these also each singly
receive the sun and store up its fire in themselves, and temper it, and carry it down as heat
to the earth, where men dwell. The same is true of natural light.

175. The difference between spiritual and natural atmospheres is that spiritual atmospheres
are receptacles of Divine fire and Divine light, thus of love and wisdom, for they contain
these interiorly within them; while natural atmospheres are receptacles, not of Divine fire
and Divine light, but of the fire and light of their own sun, which in itself is dead, as was
shown above; consequently there is nothing interiorly in them from the sun of the spiritual
world, although they are environed by spiritual atmospheres from that sun. That this is the
difference between spiritual and natural atmospheres has been learned from the wisdom of angels.

176. That there are atmospheres in the spiritual, just as in the natural world, can be seen
from this, that angels and spirits breathe, and also speak and hear - just as men do in the
natural world; and respiration, speech, and hearing are all effected by means of a lowest atmosphere,
which is called air; it can be seen also from this, that angels and spirits, like men in the
natural world, have sight, and sight is possible only by means of an atmosphere purer than
air; also from this, that angels and spirits, like men in the natural world, think and are
moved by affection, and thought and affection are not possible except by means of still purer
atmospheres; and finally from this, that all parts of the bodies of angels and spirits, external
as well as internal, are held together in connection by atmospheres, the external by air and
the internal by ethers. Without the surrounding pressure and action of these atmospheres the
interior and exterior forms of the body would evidently dissolve away. Since angels are spiritual,
and each and all things of their bodies are held together in connection, form, and order by
means of atmospheres, it follows that these atmospheres are spiritual; they are spiritual,
because they arise from the spiritual sun which is the first proceeding of the Lord's Divine
Love and Divine Wisdom.

177. That there are also waters and lands in the spiritual as well as in the natural world,
with the difference that these waters and lands are spiritual, has been said above and has
been shown in the work Heaven and Hell; and because these are spiritual, they are moved and
modified by the heat and light of the spiritual sun, the atmospheres therefrom serving as mediums,
just as the waters and lands in the natural world are moved and modified by the heat and light
of the sun of their world, its atmospheres serving as mediums.

178. The atmospheres are the active forces, the waters are the mediate forces, and the lands
are the passive forces, from which all effects have existence. These three forces are such
in their series solely by virtue of life that proceeds from the Lord as a sun, and that makes
them active.

179. THERE ARE DEGREES OF LOVE AND WISDOM, CONSEQUENTLY DEGREES OF HEAT AND LIGHT ALSO DEGREES,
OF ATMOSPHERES.

The things which follow cannot be comprehended unless it be known that there are degrees, also
what they are, and what their nature is, because in every created thing, thus in every form,
there are degrees. This Part of Angelic Wisdom will therefore treat of degrees. That there
are degrees of love and wisdom can be clearly seen from the fact that there are angels of the
three heavens. The angels of the third heaven so far excel the angels of the second heaven
in love and wisdom, and these, the angels of the lowest heaven, that they cannot be together.
The degrees of love and wisdom distinguish and separate them. It is from this that angels of
the lower heavens cannot ascend to angels of higher heavens, or if allowed to ascend, they
do not see the higher angels or anything that is about them. They do not see them because the
love and wisdom of the higher angels is of a higher degree, transcending the perception of
the lower angels. For each angel is his own love and his own wisdom; and love together with
wisdom in its form is a man, because God, who is Love itself and Wisdom itself, is a Man. It
has sometimes been permitted me to see angels of the lowest heaven who have ascended to the
angels of the third heaven; and when they had made their way thither, I have heard them complaining
that they did not see any one, and all the while they were in the midst of the higher angels.
Afterwards they were instructed that those angels were invisible to them because their love
and wisdom were imperceptible to them, and that love and wisdom are what make an angel appear
as a man.

180. That there must be degrees of love and wisdom is still more evident when the love and
wisdom of angels are compared with the love and wisdom of men. It is well known that the wisdom
of angels, when thus compared, is ineffable; also it will be seen in what follows that to men
who are in natural love, this wisdom is incomprehensible. It appears ineffable and incomprehensible
because it is of a higher degree.

181. Since there are degrees of love and wisdom, there are also degrees of heat and light.
By heat and light are meant spiritual heat and light, such as angels in the heavens have, and
such as men have as to the interiors of their minds; for men have a heat of love similar to
that of the angels, and a similar light of wisdom. In the heavens, such and so much love as
the angels have, such and so much is their heat; and the same is true of their light as compared
with their wisdom; the reason is, that with them love is in the heat, and wisdom in the light
(as was shown above). It is the same with men on earth, with the difference, however, that
angels feel that heat and see that light, but men do not, because they are in natural heat
and light; and while they are in the natural heat and light spiritual heat is not felt except
by a certain enjoyment of love, and spiritual light is not seen except by a perception of truth.
Now since man, so long as he is in natural heat and light, knows nothing of the spiritual heat
and light within him, and since knowledge of these can be obtained only through experience
from the spiritual world, the heat and light in which the angels and their heavens are, shall
here be especially spoken of. From this and from no other source can enlightenment on this
subject be had.

182. But degrees of spiritual heat cannot be described from experience, because love, to which
spiritual heat corresponds, does not come thus under ideas of thought; but degrees of spiritual
light can be described, because light pertains to thought, and therefore comes under ideas
of thought. Yet degrees of spiritual heat can be comprehended by their relation to the degrees
of light, for the two are in like degree. With respect then to spiritual light in which angels
are, it has been granted me to see it with my eyes. With angels of the higher heavens, the
light is so glistening white as to be indescribable, even by comparison with the shining whiteness
of snow, and so glowing as to be indescribable even by comparison with the beams of this world's
sun. In a word, that light exceeds a thousand times the noonday light upon earth. But the light
with angels of the lower heavens can be described in a measure by comparisons, although it
still exceeds the most intense light of our world. The light of angels of the higher heavens
is indescribable, because their light makes one with their wisdom; and because their wisdom,
compared to the wisdom of men, is ineffable, thus also is their light. From these few things
it can be seen that there must be degrees of light; and because wisdom and love are of like
degrees, it follows that there must be like degrees of heat.

183. Since atmospheres are the receptacles and containants of heat and light, it follows that
there are as many degrees of atmospheres as there are degrees of heat and light; also that
there are as many as there are degrees of love and wisdom. That there are several atmospheres,
and that these are distinct from each other by means of degrees, has been manifested to me
by much experience in the spiritual world; especially from this, that angels of the lower heavens
are not able to breathe in the region of higher angels, and appear to themselves to gasp for
breath, as living creatures do when they are raised out of air into ether, or out of water
into air. Moreover, spirits below the heavens appear in a kind of cloud. That there are several
atmospheres, and that they are distinct from each other by means of degrees, may be seen above
(n. 176).

184. DEGREES ARE OF A TWOFOLD KIND, DEGREES OF HEIGHT AND DEGREES OF BREADTH.

A knowledge of degrees is like a key to lay open the causes of things, and to give entrance
into them. Without this knowledge, scarcely anything of cause can be known; for without it,
the objects and subjects of both worlds seem to have but a single meaning, as if there were
nothing in them beyond that which meets the eye; when yet compared to the things which lie
hidden within, what is thus seen is as one to thousands, yea, to tens of thousands. The interiors
which are not open to view can in no way be discovered except through a knowledge of degrees.
For things exterior advance to things interior and through these to things inmost, by means
of degrees; not by continuous degrees but by discrete degrees. "Continuous degrees" is a term
applied to the gradual lessenings or decreasings from grosser to finer, or from denser to rarer;
or rather, to growths and increasings from finer to grosser, or from rarer to denser; precisely
like the gradations of light to shade, or of heat to cold. But discrete degrees are entirely
different: they are like things prior, subsequent and final; or like end, cause, and effect.
These degrees are called discrete, because the prior is by itself; the subsequent by itself;
and the final by itself; and yet taken together they make one. There are atmospheres, from
highest to lowest, that is, from the sun to the earth, called ethers and airs that are separated
into such degrees; they are like simples, collections of simples, and again collections of
these, which taken together are called a composite. Such degrees are discrete [or separate],
because each has a distinct existence, and these degrees are what are meant by "degrees of
height;" but the former degrees are continuous, because they increase continuously and these
degrees are what are meant by "degrees of breadth."

185. Each and all things that have existence in the spiritual world and in the natural world,
have conjoint existence from discrete degrees and from continuous degrees together, that is,
from degrees of height and from degrees of breadth. The dimension which consists of discrete
degrees is called height, and the dimension that consists of continuous degrees is called breadth;
their position relatively to the sight of the eye does not alter the designation. Without a
knowledge of these degrees nothing can be known of how the three heavens differ from each other;
nor can anything be known of the differences of love and wisdom of the angels there; nor of
the differences of heat and light in which they are; nor of the differences of atmospheres
which environ and contain these. Nor without a knowledge of these degrees can anything be known
of the differences among the interior powers of the minds of men, thus nothing of their state
as regards reformation and regeneration; nor anything of the differences among the exterior
powers of the bodies both of angels and men; and nothing whatever can be known of the distinction
between spiritual and natural, thus nothing of correspondence. Nor, indeed, can anything be
known of any difference between the life of men and that of beasts, or between the more perfect
and the less perfect animals; neither of the differences among the forms of the vegetable kingdom,
nor among the matters of the mineral kingdom. From which it can be seen that they who are ignorant
of these degrees are unable to see causes from anything of judgment; they see only effects,
and from these judge of causes, which is done for the most part by an induction that is continuous
with effects. But causes produce effects not continuously but discretely; for cause is one
thing, and effect is another. The difference between the two is like the difference between
prior and subsequent, or between that which forms and that which is formed.

186. That it may be still better comprehended what discrete degrees are, what their nature
is, and how they differ from continuous degrees, the angelic heavens may serve as an example.
There are three heavens, and these are separated by degrees of height; therefore the heavens
are one below another, nor do they communicate with each other except by influx, which proceeds
from the Lord through the heavens in their order to the lowest; and not contrariwise. Each
heaven by itself, however, is divided not by degrees of height but by degrees of breadth. Those
who are in the middle, that is, at the center, are in the light of wisdom; but those who are
around about, even to the boundaries, are in the shade of wisdom. Thus wisdom grows less and
less even to ignorance, as light decreases to shade, which takes place continuously. It is
the same with men. The interiors belonging to their minds are separated into as many degrees
as the angelic heavens; and these degrees are one above another; therefore the interiors of
men which belong to their minds are separated by discrete degrees, that is, degrees of height.
Consequently a man may be in the lowest degree, then in a higher, and also in the highest degree,
according to the degree of his wisdom; moreover, when he is in the lowest degree only, the
higher degree is shut, - but is opened as he receives wisdom from the Lord. There are also
in a man, as in heaven, continuous degrees, that is degrees of breadth. A man is like the heavens
because as regards the interiors of his mind, he is a heaven in least form, in the measure
in which he is in love and wisdom from the Lord. That man as regards the interiors of his mind
is a heaven in least form may be seen in the work Heaven and Hell (n. 51-58.)

187. From all this it can be seen, that one who knows nothing about discrete degrees, that
is, degrees of height, can know nothing about the state of man as regards his reformation and
regeneration, which are effected through the reception of love and wisdom of the Lord, and
then through the opening of the interior degrees of his mind in their order. Nor can he know
anything about influx from the Lord through the heavens nor anything about the order into which
he was created. For if anyone thinks about these, not from discrete degrees or degrees of height
but from continuous degrees or degrees of breadth, he is not able to perceive anything about
them from causes, but only from effects; and to see from effects only is to see from fallacies,
from which come errors, one after another; and these may be so multiplied by inductions that
at length enormous falsities are called truths.

188. These degrees therefore shall be treated of throughout this Part; for it is the object
of this little work to uncover causes, that effects may-be seen from them, and thus the darkness
may be dispelled in which the man of the church is in respect to God and the Lord, and in respect
to Divine things in general which are called spiritual things. This I may mention, that the
angels are in grief for the darkness on the earth; saying that they see light hardly anywhere,
and that men eagerly lay hold of fallacies and confirm them, thereby multiplying falsities
upon falsities; and to confirm fallacies men search out, by means of reasonings from falsities
and from truths falsified, such things as cannot be controverted, owing to the darkness in
respect to causes and the ignorance respecting truths. The angels lament especially over confirmations
respecting faith separate from charity and justification thereby; also over men's ideas about
God, angels and spirits, and their ignorance of what love and wisdom are.

189. DEGREES OF HEIGHT ARE HOMOGENEOUS, AND ONE IS FROM THE OTHER IN SUCCESSION LIKE END, CAUSE,
AND EFFECT.

As degrees of breadth, that is continuous degrees, are like gradations from light to shade,
from heat to cold, from hard to soft, from dense to rare, from thick to thin, and so forth;
and as these degrees are known from sensuous and ocular experience, while degrees of height,
or discrete degrees, are not, the latter kind shall be treated of especially in this Part;
for without a knowledge of these degrees, causes cannot be seen. It is known indeed that end,
cause, and effect follow in order, like prior, subsequent, and final; also that the end begets
the cause, and, through the cause, the effect, that the end may have form; also about these
many other things are known; and yet to know these things, and not to see them in their applications
to existing things is simply to know abstractions, which remain in the memory only so long
as the mind is in analytical ideas from metaphysical thought. From this it is that although
end, cause, and effect advance according to discrete degrees, little if anything is known in
the world about these degrees. For a mere knowledge of abstractions is like an airy something
which flies away; but when abstractions are applied to such things as are in the world, they
become like what is seen with the eyes on earth, and remains in the memory.

190. All things which have existence in the world, of which threefold dimension is predicated,
that is, which are called compounds, consist of degrees of height, that is, discrete degrees;
as examples will make clear. It is known from ocular experience, that every muscle in the human
body consists of minute fibers, and these put together into little bundles form larger fibers,
called motor fibers, and groups of these form the compound called a muscle. It is the same
with nerves; in these from minute fibers larger fibers are compacted, which appear as filaments,
and these grouped together compose the nerve. The same is true of the rest of the combinations,
bundlings and groupings out of which the organs and viscera are made up; for these are compositions
of fibers and vessels variously put together according to like degrees. It is the same also
with each and every thing of the vegetable and mineral kingdoms. In woods there are combinations
of filaments in threefold order. In metals and stones there are groupings of parts, also in
threefold order. From all this the nature of discrete degrees can be seen, namely, that one
is from the other, and through the second there is a third which is called the composite; and
that each degree is discreted from the others.

191. From these examples a conclusion may be formed respecting those things that are not visible
to the eye, for with those it is the same; for example, with the organic substances which are
the receptacles and abodes of thoughts and affections in the brains; with atmospheres; with
heat and light; and with love and wisdom. For atmospheres are receptacles of heat and light;
and heat and light are receptacles of love and wisdom; consequently, as there are degrees of
atmospheres, there are also like degrees of heat and light, and of love and wisdom; for the
same principle applies to the latter as to the former.

192. That these degrees are homogeneous, that is, of the same character and nature, appears
from what has just been said. The motor fibers of muscles, least, larger, and largest, are
homogeneous. Woody filaments, from the least to the composite formed of these, are homogeneous.
So likewise are parts of stones and metals of every kind. The organic substances which are
receptacles and abodes of thoughts and affections, from the most simple to their general aggregate
which is the brain, are homogeneous. The atmospheres, from pure ether to air, are homogeneous.
The degrees of heat and light in series, following the degrees of atmospheres, are homogeneous,
therefore the degrees of love and wisdom are also homogeneous. Things which are not of the
same character and nature are heterogeneous, and do not harmonize with things homogeneous;
thus they cannot form discrete degrees with them, but only with their own, which are of the
same character and nature and with which they are homogeneous.

193. That these things in their order are like ends, causes, and effects, is evident; for the
first, which is the least, effectuates its cause by means of the middle, and its effect by
means of the last.

194. It should be known that each degree is made distinct from the others by coverings of its
own, and that all the degrees together are made distinct by means of a general covering; also,
that this general covering communicates with interiors and inmosts in their order. From this
there is conjunction of all and unanimous action.

195. THE FIRST DEGREE IS THE ALL IN EVERYTHING OF THE SUBSEQUENT DEGREES.

This is because the degrees of each subject and of each thing are homogeneous; and they are
homogeneous because produced from the first degree. For their formation is such that the first,
by bundlings or groupings, in a word, by aggregations of parts, produces the second, and through
this the third; and discretes each from the other by a covering drawn around it; from which
it is clear that the first degree is chief and singly supreme in the subsequent degrees; consequently
that in all things of the subsequent degrees, the first is the all.

196. When it is said that degrees are such in respect to each other, the meaning is that substances
are such in their degrees. This manner of speaking by degrees is abstract, that is, universal,
which makes the statement applicable to every subject or thing which is in degrees of this kind.

197. This can be applied to all those things which have been enumerated in the preceding chapter,
to the muscles, the nerves, the matters and parts of both the vegetable and mineral kingdoms,
to the organic substances that are the subjects of thoughts and affections in man, to atmospheres,
to heat and light, and to love and wisdom. In all these, the first is singly supreme in the
subsequent things; yea, it is the sole thing in them, and because it is the sole thing in them,
it is the all in them. That this is so is clear also from these well-known truths; that the
end is the all of the cause, and through the cause is the all of the effect; and thus end,
cause, and effect are called first, middle, and last end. Further, that the cause of the cause
is also the cause of the thing caused; and that there is nothing essential in causes except
the end, and nothing essential in movement excepting effort [conatus]; also, that the substance
that is substance in itself is the sole substance.

198. From all this it can clearly be seen that the Divine, which is substance in itself, that
is, the one only and sole substance, is the substance from which is each and every thing that
has been created; thus that God is the All in all things of the universe, according to what
has been shown in Part First, as follows.

199. ALL PERFECTIONS INCREASE AND ASCEND ALONG WITH DEGREES AND ACCORDING TO THEM.

That degrees are of two kinds, degrees of breadth and degrees of height has been shown above
(n. 185-188); also that degrees of breadth are like those of light verging to shade, or of
wisdom verging to ignorance; but that degrees of height are like end, cause and effect, or
like prior, subsequent and final. Of these latter degrees it is said that they ascend or descend,
for they are of height; but of the former that they increase or decrease for they are of breadth.
These two kinds of degrees differ so much that they have nothing in common; they should therefore
be perceived as distinct, and by no means be confounded.

200. All perfections increase and ascend along with degrees and according to them, because
all predicates follow their subjects, and perfection and imperfection are general predicates;
for they are predicated of life, of forces and of forms.

Perfection of life is perfection of love and wisdom; and because the will and understanding
are receptacles of love and wisdom, perfection of life is also perfection of will and understanding,
consequently of affections and thoughts; and because spiritual heat is the containant of love,
and spiritual light is the containant of wisdom, perfection of these may also be referred to
perfection of life.

Perfection of forces is perfection of all things that are actuated and moved by life, in which,
however, there is no life. Atmospheres as to their active powers are such forces; the interior
and exterior organic substances with man, and with animals of every kind, are such forces;
all things in the natural world that are endowed with active powers both immediately and mediately
from its sun are such forces.

Perfection of forms and perfection of forces make one, for as the forces are, such are the
forms; with the difference only, that forms are substances but forces are their activities;
therefore like degrees of perfection belong to both. Forms that are not at the same time forces
are also perfect according to degrees.

201. The perfection of life, forces, and forms that increase or decrease according to degrees
of breadth, that is, continuous degrees, will not be discussed here, because there is a knowledge
of these degrees in the world; but only the perfections of life, forces, and forms that ascend
or descend according to degrees of height, that is, discrete degrees; because these degrees
are not known in the world. Of the mode in which perfections ascend and descend according to
these degrees little can be learned from things visible in the natural world, but this can
be seen clearly from things visible in the spiritual world. From things visible in the natural
world it is merely found that the more interiorly they are looked into the more do wonders
present themselves; as, for instance, in the eyes, ears, tongue; in muscles, heart, lungs,
liver, pancreas, kidneys, and other viscera; also, in seeds, fruits and flowers; and in metals,
minerals and stones. That wonders increase in all these the more interiorly they are looked
into is well known; yet it has become little known thereby that the objects are interiorly
more perfect according to degrees of height or discrete degrees. This has been concealed by
ignorance of these degrees. But since these degrees stand out conspicuously in the spiritual
world (for the whole of that world from highest to lowest is distinctly discreted into these
degrees), from that world knowledge of these degrees can be drawn; and afterwards conclusions
may be drawn therefrom respecting the perfection of forces and forms that are in similar degrees
in the natural world.

202. In the spiritual world there are three heavens, arranged according to degrees of height.
In the highest heavens are angels superior in every perfection to the angels in the middle
heaven; and in the middle heaven are angels superior in every perfection to the angels in the
lowest heaven. The degrees of perfections are such, that angels of the lowest heaven cannot
attain to the first threshold of the perfections of the angels of the middle heaven, nor these
to the first threshold of the perfections of the angels of the highest heaven. This seems incredible,
yet it is a truth. The reason is that they are consociated according to discrete, not according
to continuous degrees. I have learned from observation that the difference between the affections
and thoughts, and consequently the speech, of the angels of the higher and the lower heavens,
is such that they have nothing in common; and that communication takes place only through correspondences,
which have existence by immediate influx of the Lord into all the heavens, and by mediate influx
through the highest heaven into the lowest. Such being the nature of these differences, they
cannot be expressed in natural language, therefore not described; for the thoughts of angels,
being spiritual, do not fall into natural ideas. They can be expressed and described only by
angels themselves, in their own languages, words, and writings, and not in those that are human.
This is why it is said that in the heavens unspeakable things are heard and seen. These differences
may be in some measure comprehended when it is known that the thoughts of angels of the highest
or third heaven are thoughts of ends; the thoughts of angels of the middle or second heaven
thoughts of causes, and the thoughts of angels of the lowest or first heaven thoughts of effects.
It must be noted, that it is one thing to think from ends, and another to think about ends;
that it is one thing to think from causes, and another to think about causes; and that it is
one thing to think from effects, and another to think about effects. Angels of the lower heavens
think about causes and about ends, but angels of the higher heavens from causes and from ends;
and to think from these is a mark of higher wisdom, but to think about these is the mark of
lower wisdom. To think from ends is of wisdom, to think from causes is of intelligence, and
to think from effects is of knowledge. From all this it is clear that all perfection ascends
and descends along with degrees and according to them.

203. Since the interior things of man, which are of his will and understanding, are like the
heavens in respect to degrees (for man, as to the interiors of his mind, is a heaven in least
form), their perfections also are like those of the heavens. But these perfections are not
apparent to any one so long as he lives in the world, because he is then in the lowest degree;
and from the lowest degree the higher degrees cannot be known; but they are known after death,
because man then enters into that degree which corresponds to his love and wisdom, for he then
becomes an angel, and thinks and speaks things ineffable to his natural man; for there is then
an elevation of all things of his mind, not in a single, but in a threefold ratio. Degrees
of height are in threefold ratio, but degrees of breadth are in single ratio. But into degrees
of height none ascend and are elevated except those who in the world have been in truths, and
have applied them to life.

204. It seems as if things prior must be less perfect than things subsequent, that is, things
simple than things composite; but things prior out of which things subsequent are formed, that
is, things simple out of which things composite are formed, are the more perfect. The reason
is that the prior or the simpler are more naked and less covered over with substances and matters
devoid of life, and are, as it were, more Divine, consequently nearer to the spiritual sun
where the Lord is; for perfection itself is in the Lord, and from Him in that sun which is
the first proceeding of His Divine Love and Divine Wisdom, and from that in those things which
come immediately after; and thus in order down to things lowest, which are less perfect as
they are farther removed. Without such preeminent perfection in things prior and simple, neither
man nor any kind of animal could have come into existence from seed, and afterwards continue
to exist; nor could the seeds of trees and shrubs vegetate and bear fruit. For the more prior
anything prior is, or the more simple anything simple is, the more exempt is it from injury,
because it is more perfect.

205. IN SUCCESSIVE ORDER THE FIRST DEGREE MAKES THE HIGHEST, AND THE THIRD THE LOWEST; BUT
IN SIMULTANEOUS ORDER THE FIRST DEGREE MAKES THE INNERMOST, AND THE THIRD THE OUTERMOST.

There is successive order and simultaneous order. The successive order of these degrees is
from highest to lowest, or from top to bottom. The angelic heavens are in this order; the third
heaven there is the highest, the second is the middle, and the first is the lowest; such is
their relative situation. In like successive order are the states of love and wisdom with the
angels there, also states of heat and light, and of the spiritual atmospheres. In like order
are all the perfections of the forms and forces there. When degrees of height, that is, discrete
degrees, are in successive order, they may be compared to a column divided into three stories,
through which ascent and descent are made. In the upper rooms are things most perfect and most
beautiful; in the middle rooms, things less perfect and beautiful; in the lowest, things still
less perfect and beautiful. But simultaneous order, which consists of like degrees, has another
appearance. In it, the highest things of successive order, which are (as was said above) the
most perfect and most beautiful, are in the inmost, the lower things are in the middle, and
the lowest in the circumference. They are as if in a solid body composed of these three degrees:
in the middle or center are the finest parts, round about this are parts less fine, and in
the extremes which constitute the circumference are the parts composed of these and which are
therefore grosser. It is like the column mentioned just above subsiding into a plane, the highest
part of which forms the innermost of the plane, the middle forms the middle, and the lowest
the outermost.

206. As the highest of successive order becomes the innermost of simultaneous order, and the
lowest becomes the outermost, so in the Word, "higher" signifies inner, and "lower" signifies
outer. "Upwards" and "downwards," and "high" and "deep" have a like meaning.

