THE GREAT WAR SYNDICATE

BY

FRANK R. STOCKTON

Author of "The Lady or the Tiger," "Rudder Grange,"
    "The Casting Away of Mrs. Lecks and Mrs.
        Aleshine," "What Might Have Been
             Expected," etc., etc.

THE GREAT WAR SYNDICATE.

In the spring of a certain year, not far from the close of the nineteenth century, when the
political relations between the United States and Great Britain became so strained that careful
observers on both sides of the Atlantic were forced to the belief that a serious break in these
relations might be looked for at any time, the fishing schooner Eliza Drum sailed from a port
in Maine for the banks of Newfoundland.

It was in this year that a new system of protection for American fishing vessels had been adopted
in Washington.  Every fleet of these vessels was accompanied by one or more United States cruisers,
which remained on the fishing grounds, not only for the purpose of warning American craft who
might approach too near the three-mile limit, but also to overlook the action of the British
naval vessels on the coast, and to interfere, at least by protest, with such seizures of American
fishing boats as might appear to be unjust.  In the opinion of all persons of sober judgment,
there was nothing in the condition of affairs at this time so dangerous to the peace of the
two countries as the presence of these American cruisers in the fishing waters.

The Eliza Drum was late in her arrival on the fishing grounds, and having, under orders from
Washington, reported to the commander of the Lennehaha, the United States vessel in charge
at that place, her captain and crew went vigorously to work to make up for lost time. They
worked so vigorously, and with eyes so single to the catching of fish, that on the morning
of the day after their arrival, they were hauling up cod at a point which, according to the
nationality of the calculator, might be two and three-quarters or three and one-quarter miles
from the Canadian coast.

In consequence of this inattention to the apparent extent of the marine mile, the Eliza Drum,
a little before noon, was overhauled and seized by the British cruiser, Dog Star.  A few miles
away the Lennehaha had perceived the dangerous position of the Eliza Drum, and had started
toward her to warn her to take a less doubtful position.  But before she arrived the capture
had taken place.  When he reached the spot where the Eliza Drum had been fishing, the commander
of the Lennehaha made an observation of the distance from the shore, and calculated it to be
more than three miles.  When he sent an officer in a boat to the Dog Star to state the result
of his computations, the captain of the British vessel replied that he was satisfied the distance
was less than three miles, and that he was now about to take the Eliza Drum into port.

On receiving this information, the commander of the Lennehaha steamed closer to the Dog Star,
and informed her captain, by means of a speaking-trumpet, that if he took the Eliza Drum into
a Canadian port, he would first have to sail over his ship.  To this the captain of the Dog
Star replied that he did not in the least object to sail over the Lennehaha, and proceeded
to put a prize crew on board the fishing vessel.

At this juncture the captain of the Eliza Drum ran up a large American flag; in five minutes
afterward the captain of the prize crew hauled it down; in less than ten minutes after this
the Lennehaha and the Dog Star were blazing at each other with their bow guns.  The spark had
been struck.

The contest was not a long one.  The Dog Star was of much greater tonnage and heavier armament
than her antagonist, and early in the afternoon she steamed for St. John's, taking with her
as prizes both the Eliza Drum and the Lennehaha.

All that night, at every point in the United States which was reached by telegraph, there burned
a smothered fire; and the next morning, when the regular and extra editions of the newspapers
were poured out upon the land, the fire burst into a roaring blaze.  From lakes to gulf, from
ocean to ocean, on mountain and plain, in city and prairie, it roared and blazed.  Parties,
sections, politics, were all forgotten. Every American formed part of an electric system; the
same fire flashed into every soul.  No matter what might be thought on the morrow, or in the
coming days which might bring better under-standing, this day the unreasoning fire blazed and
roared.

With morning newspapers in their hands, men rushed from the breakfast-tables into the streets
to meet their fellow-men.  What was it that they should do?

Detailed accounts of the affair came rapidly, but there was nothing in them to quiet the national
indignation; the American flag had been hauled down by Englishmen, an American naval vessel
had been fired into and captured; that was enough!  No matter whether the Eliza Drum was within
the three-mile limit or not!  No matter which vessel fired first!  If it were the Lennehaha,
the more honour to her; she ought to have done it!  From platform, pulpit, stump, and editorial
office came one vehement, passionate shout directed toward Washington.

Congress was in session, and in its halls the fire roared louder and blazed higher than on
mountain or plain, in city or prairie.  No member of the Government, from President to page,
ventured to oppose the tempestuous demands of the people.  The day for argument upon the exciting
question had been a long weary one, and it had gone by in less than a week the great shout
of the people was answered by a declaration of war against Great Britain.

When this had been done, those who demanded war breathed easier, but those who must direct
the war breathed harder.

It was indeed a time for hard breathing, but the great mass of the people perceived no reason
why this should be.  Money there was in vast abundance.  In every State well-drilled men, by
thousands, stood ready for the word to march, and the military experience and knowledge given
by a great war was yet strong upon the nation.

To the people at large the plan of the war appeared a very obvious and a very simple one. 
Canada had given the offence, Canada should be made to pay the penalty.  In a very short time,
one hundred thousand, two hundred thousand, five hundred thousand men, if necessary, could
be made ready for the invasion of Canada.  From platform, pulpit, stump, and editorial office
came the cry:  "On to Canada!"

At the seat of Government, however, the plan of the war did not appear so obvious, so simple.
Throwing a great army into Canada was all well enough, and that army would probably do well
enough; but the question which produced hard breathing in the executive branch of the Government
was the immediate protection of the sea-coast, Atlantic, Gulf, and even Pacific.

In a storm of national indignation war had been declared against a power which at this period
of her history had brought up her naval forces to a point double in strength to that of any
other country in the world.  And this war had been declared by a nation which, comparatively
speaking, possessed no naval strength at all.

For some years the United States navy had been steadily improving, but this improvement was
not sufficient to make it worthy of reliance at this crisis.  As has been said, there was money
enough, and every ship-yard in the country could be set to work to build ironclad men-of-war:
but it takes a long time to build ships, and England's navy was afloat.  It was the British
keel that America had to fear.

By means of the continental cables it was known that many of the largest mail vessels of the
British transatlantic lines, which had been withdrawn upon the declaration of war, were preparing
in British ports to transport troops to Canada.  It was not impossible that these great steamers
might land an army in Canada before an American army could be organized and marched to that
province.  It might be that the United States would be forced to defend her borders, instead
of invading those of the enemy.

In every fort and navy-yard all was activity; the hammering of iron went on by day and by night;
but what was to be done when the great ironclads of England hammered upon our defences?  How
long would it be before the American flag would be seen no more upon the high seas?

It is not surprising that the Government found its position one of perilous responsibility.
A wrathful nation expected of it more than it could perform.

All over the country, however, there were thoughtful men, not connected with the Government,
who saw the perilous features of the situation; and day by day these grew less afraid of being
considered traitors, and more willing to declare their convictions of the country's danger.
Despite the continuance of the national enthusiasm, doubts, perplexities, and fears began to
show themselves.

In the States bordering upon Canada a reactionary feeling became evident.  Unless the United
States navy could prevent England from rapidly pouring into Canada, not only her own troops,
but perhaps those of allied nations, these Northern States might become the scene of warfare,
and whatever the issue of the contest, their lands might be ravished, their people suffer.

From many quarters urgent demands were now pressed upon the Government. From the interior there
were clamours for troops to be massed on the Northern frontier, and from the seaboard cities
there came a cry for ships that were worthy to be called men-of-war,--ships to defend the harbours
and bays, ships to repel an invasion by sea.  Suggestions were innumerable.  There was no time
to build, it was urged; the Government could call upon friendly nations.  But wise men smiled
sadly at these suggestions; it was difficult to find a nation desirous of a war with England.

In the midst of the enthusiasms, the fears, and the suggestions, came reports of the capture
of American merchantmen by fast British cruisers.  These reports made the American people more
furious, the American Government more anxious.

Almost from the beginning of this period of national turmoil, a party of gentlemen met daily
in one of the large rooms in a hotel in New York.  At first there were eleven of these men,
all from the great Atlantic cities, but their number increased by arrivals from other parts
of the country, until at last they, numbered twenty-three.  These gentlemen were all great
capitalists, and accustomed to occupying themselves with great enterprises.  By day and by
night they met together with closed doors, until they had matured the scheme which they had
been considering.  As soon as this work was done, a committee was sent to Washington, to submit
a plan to the Government.

These twenty-three men had formed themselves into a Syndicate, with the object of taking entire
charge of the war between the United States and Great Britain.

This proposition was an astounding one, but the Government was obliged to treat it with respectful
consideration.  The men who offered it were a power in the land,--a power which no government
could afford to disregard.

The plan of the Syndicate was comprehensive, direct, and simple.  It offered to assume the
entire control and expense of the war, and to effect a satisfactory peace within one year.
As a guarantee that this contract would be properly performed, an immense sum of money would
be deposited in the Treasury at Washington.  Should the Syndicate be unsuccessful, this sum
would be forfeited, and it would receive no pay for anything it had done.

The sum to be paid by the Government to the Syndicate, should it bring the war to a satisfactory
conclusion, would depend upon the duration of hostilities.  That is to say, that as the shorter
the duration of the war, the greater would be the benefit to the country, therefore, the larger
must be the pay to the Syndicate.  According to the proposed contract, the Syndicate would
receive, if the war should continue for a year, one-quarter the sum stipulated to be paid if
peace should be declared in three months.

If at any time during the conduct of the war by the Syndicate an American seaport should be
taken by the enemy, or a British force landed on any point of the seacoast, the contract should
be considered at an end, and security and payment forfeited.  If any point on the northern
boundary of the United States should be taken and occupied by the enemy, one million dollars
of the deposited security should be forfeited for every such occupation, but the contract should
continue.

It was stipulated that the land and naval forces of the United States should remain under the
entire control of the Government, but should be maintained as a defensive force, and not brought
into action unless any failure on the part of the Syndicate should render such action necessary.

The state of feeling in governmental circles, and the evidences of alarm and distrust which
were becoming apparent in Congress and among the people, exerted an important influence in
favour of the Syndicate. The Government caught at its proposition, not as if it were a straw,
but as if it were a life-raft.  The men who offered to relieve the executive departments of
their perilous responsibilities were men of great ability, prominent positions, and vast resources,
whose vast enterprises had already made them known all over the globe.  Such men were not likely
to jeopardize their reputations and fortunes in a case like this, unless they had well-founded
reasons for believing that they would be successful.  Even the largest amount stipulated to
be paid them in case of success would be less than the ordinary estimates for the military
and naval operations which had been anticipated; and in case of failure, the amount forfeited
would go far to repair the losses which might be sustained by the citizens of the various States.

At all events, should the Syndicate be allowed to take immediate control of the war, there
would be time to put the army and navy, especially the latter, in better condition to carry
on the contest in case of the failure of the Syndicate.  Organization and construction might
still go on, and, should it be necessary, the army and navy could step into the contest fresh
and well prepared.

All branches of the Government united in accepting the offer of the Syndicate.  The contract
was signed, and the world waited to see what would happen next.

The influence which for years had been exerted by the interests controlled by the men composing
the Syndicate, had its effect in producing a popular confidence in the power of the members
of the Syndicate to conduct a war as successfully as they had conducted other gigantic enterprises.
Therefore, although predictions of disaster came from many quarters, the American public appeared
willing to wait with but moderate impatience for the result of this novel undertaking.

The Government now proceeded to mass troops at important points on the northern frontier; forts
were supplied with men and armaments, all coast defences were put in the best possible condition,
the navy was stationed at important ports, and work at the shipyards went on.  But without
reference to all this, the work of the Syndicate immediately began.

This body of men were of various politics and of various pursuits in life.  But politics were
no more regarded in the work they had undertaken than they would have been in the purchase
of land or of railroad iron.  No manifestoes of motives and intentions were issued to the public.
The Syndicate simply went to work.  There could be no doubt that early success would be a direct
profit to it, but there could also be no doubt that its success would be a vast benefit and
profit, not only to the business enterprises in which these men were severally engaged, but
to the business of the whole country.  To save the United States from a dragging war, and to
save themselves from the effects of it, were the prompting motives for the formation of the
Syndicate.

Without hesitation, the Syndicate determined that the war in which it was about to engage should
be one of defence by means of offence.  Such a war must necessarily be quick and effective;
and with all the force of their fortunes, their minds, and their bodies, its members went to
work to wage this war quickly and effectively.

All known inventions and improvements in the art of war had been thoroughly considered by the
Syndicate, and by the eminent specialists whom it had enlisted in its service.  Certain recently
perfected engines of war, novel in nature, were the exclusive property of the Syndicate.  It
was known, or surmised, in certain quarters that the Syndicate had secured possession of important
warlike inventions; but what they were and how they acted was a secret carefully guarded and
protected.

The first step of the Syndicate was to purchase from the United States Government ten war-vessels.
These were of medium size and in good condition, but they were of an old-fashioned type, and
it had not been considered expedient to put them in commission.  This action caused surprise
and disappointment in many quarters.  It had been supposed that the Syndicate, through its
agents scattered all over the world, would immediately acquire, by purchase or lease, a fleet
of fine ironclads culled from various maritime powers.  But the Syndicate having no intention
of involving, or attempting to involve, other countries in this quarrel, paid no attention
to public opinion, and went to work in its own way.

Its vessels, eight of which were on the Atlantic coast and two on the Pacific, were rapidly
prepared for the peculiar service in which they were to be engaged.  The resources of the Syndicate
were great, and in a very short time several of their vessels, already heavily plated with
steel, were furnished with an additional outside armour, formed of strips of elastic steel,
each reaching from the gunwales nearly to the surface of the water.  These strips, about a
foot wide, and placed an inch or two apart, were each backed by several powerful air-buffers,
so that a ball striking one or more of them would be deprived of much of its momentum.  The
experiments upon the steel spring and buffers adopted by the Syndicate showed that the force
of the heaviest cannonading was almost deadened by the powerful elasticity of this armour.

The armament of each vessel consisted of but one gun, of large calibre, placed on the forward
deck, and protected by a bomb-proof covering. Each vessel was manned by a captain and crew
from the merchant service, from whom no warlike duties were expected.  The fighting operations
were in charge of a small body of men, composed of two or three scientific specialists, and
some practical gunners and their assistants.  A few bomb-proof canopies and a curved steel
deck completed the defences of the vessel.

Besides equipping this little navy, the Syndicate set about the construction of certain sea-going
vessels of an extraordinary kind.  So great were the facilities at its command, and so thorough
and complete its methods, that ten or a dozen ship-yards and foundries were set to work simultaneously
to build one of these ships.  In a marvellously short time the Syndicate possessed several
of them ready for action.

These vessels became technically known as "crabs." They were not large, and the only part of
them which projected above the water was the middle of an elliptical deck, slightly convex,
and heavily mailed with ribs of steel.  These vessels were fitted with electric engines of
extraordinary power, and were capable of great speed.  At their bows, fully protected by the
overhanging deck, was the machinery by which their peculiar work was to be accomplished.  The
Syndicate intended to confine itself to marine operations, and for the present it was contented
with these two classes of vessels.

The armament for each of the large vessels, as has been said before, consisted of a single
gun of long range, and the ammunition was confined entirely to a new style of projectile, which
had never yet been used in warfare.  The material and construction of this projectile were
known only to three members of the Syndicate, who had invented and perfected it, and it was
on account of their possession of this secret that they had been invited to join that body.

This projectile was not, in the ordinary sense of the word, an explosive, and was named by
its inventors, "The Instantaneous Motor." It was discharged from an ordinary cannon, but no
gunpowder or other explosive compound was used to propel it.  The bomb possessed, in itself
the necessary power of propulsion, and the gun was used merely to give it the proper direction.

These bombs were cylindrical in form, and pointed at the outer end. They were filled with hundreds
of small tubes, each radiating outward from a central line.  Those in the middle third of the
bomb pointed directly outward, while those in its front portion were inclined forward at a
slight angle, and those in the rear portion backward at the same angle.  One tube at the end
of the bomb, and pointing directly backward, furnished the motive power.

Each of these tubes could exert a force sufficient to move an ordinary train of passenger cars
one mile, and this power could be exerted instantaneously, so that the difference in time in
the starting of a train at one end of the mile and its arrival at the other would not be appreciable.
The difference in concussionary force between a train moving at the rate of a mile in two minutes,
or even one minute, and another train which moves a mile in an instant, can easily be imagined.

In these bombs, those tubes which might direct their powers downward or laterally upon the
earth were capable of instantaneously propelling every portion of solid ground or rock to a
distance of two or three hundred yards, while the particles of objects on the surface of the
earth were instantaneously removed to a far greater distance.  The tube which propelled the
bomb was of a force graduated according to circumstances, and it would carry a bomb to as great
a distance as accurate observation for purposes of aim could be made.  Its force was brought
into action while in the cannon by means of electricity while the same effect was produced
in the other tubes by the concussion of the steel head against the object aimed at.

What gave the tubes their power was the jealously guarded secret.

The method of aiming was as novel as the bomb itself.  In this process nothing depended on
the eyesight of the gunner; the personal equation was entirely eliminated.  The gun was so
mounted that its direction was accurately indicated by graduated scales; there was an instrument
which was acted upon by the dip, rise, or roll of the vessel, and which showed at any moment
the position of the gun with reference to the plane of the sea-surface.

Before the discharge of the cannon an observation was taken by one of the scientific men, which
accurately determined the distance to the object to be aimed at, and reference to a carefully
prepared mathematical table showed to what points on the graduated scales the gun should be
adjusted, and the instant that the that the muzzle of the cannon was in the position that it
was when the observation was taken, a button was touched and the bomb was instantaneously placed
on the spot aimed at.  The exactness with which the propelling force of the bomb could be determined
was an important factor in this method of aiming.

As soon as three of the spring-armoured vessels and five "crabs" were completed, the Syndicate
felt itself ready to begin operations.  It was indeed time.  The seas had been covered with
American and British merchantmen hastening homeward, or to friendly ports, before the actual
commencement of hostilities.  But all had not been fortunate enough to reach safety within
the limits of time allowed, and several American merchantmen had been already captured by fast
British cruisers.

The members of the Syndicate well understood that if a war was to be carried on as they desired,
they must strike the first real blow. Comparatively speaking, a very short time had elapsed
since the declaration of war, and the opportunity to take the initiative was still open.

It was in order to take this initiative that, in the early hours of a July morning, two of
the Syndicate's armoured vessels, each accompanied by a crab, steamed out of a New England
port, and headed for the point on the Canadian coast where it had been decided to open the
campaign.

The vessels of the Syndicate had no individual names.  The spring-armoured ships were termed
"repellers," and were numbered, and the crabs were known by the letters of the alphabet.  Each
repeller was in charge of a Director of Naval Operations; and the whole naval force of the
Syndicate was under the command of a Director-in-chief.  On this momentous occasion this officer
was on board of Repeller No. 1, and commanded the little fleet.

The repellers had never been vessels of great speed, and their present armour of steel strips,
the lower portion of which was frequently under water, considerably retarded their progress;
but each of them was taken in tow by one of the swift and powerful crabs, and with this assistance
they made very good time, reaching their destination on the morning of the second day.

It was on a breezy day, with a cloudy sky, and the sea moderately smooth, that the little fleet
of the Syndicate lay to off the harbour of one of the principal Canadian seaports.  About five
miles away the headlands on either side of the mouth of the harbour could be plainly seen.
It had been decided that Repeller No. 1 should begin operations. Accordingly, that vessel steamed
about a mile nearer the harbour, accompanied by Crab A.  The other repeller and crab remained
in their first position, ready to act in case they should be needed.

The approach of two vessels, evidently men-of-war, and carrying the American flag, was perceived
from the forts and redoubts at the mouth of the harbour, and the news quickly spread to the
city and to the vessels in port.  Intense excitement ensued on land and water, among the citizens
of the place as well as its defenders.  Every man who had a post of duty was instantly at it;
and in less than half an hour the British man-of-war Scarabaeus, which had been lying at anchor
a short distance outside the harbour, came steaming out to meet the enemy. There were other
naval vessels in port, but they required more time to be put in readiness for action.

As soon as the approach of Scarabaeus was perceived by Repeller No. 1, a boat bearing a white
flag was lowered from that vessel and was rapidly rowed toward the British ship.  When the
latter saw the boat coming she lay to, and waited its arrival.  A note was delivered to the
captain of the Scarabaeus, in which it was stated that the Syndicate, which had undertaken
on the part of the United States the conduct of the war between that country and Great Britain,
was now prepared to demand the surrender of this city with its forts and defences and all vessels
within its harbour, and, as a first step, the immediate surrender of the vessel to the commander
of which this note was delivered.

The overwhelming effrontery of this demand caused the commander of the Scarabaeus to doubt
whether he had to deal with a raving lunatic or a blustering fool; but he informed the person
in charge of the flag-of-truce boat, that he would give him fifteen minutes in which to get
back to his vessel, and that he would then open fire upon that craft.

The men who rowed the little boat were not men-of-war's men, and were unaccustomed to duties
of this kind.  In eight minutes they had reached their vessel, and were safe on board.

Just seven minutes afterward the first shot came from the Scarabaeus. It passed over Repeller
No. 1, and that vessel, instead of replying, immediately steamed nearer her adversary.  The
Director-in-chief desired to determine the effect of an active cannonade upon the new armour,
and therefore ordered the vessel placed in such a position that the Englishman might have the
best opportunity for using it as a target.

The Scarabaeus lost no time in availing herself of the facilities offered.  She was a large
and powerful ship, with a heavy armament; and, soon getting the range of the Syndicate's vessel,
she hurled ball after ball upon her striped side.  Repeller No. 1 made no reply, but quietly
submitted to the terrible bombardment.  Some of the great shot jarred her from bow to stern,
but not one of them broke a steel spring, nor penetrated the heavy inside plates.

After half an hour of this, work the Director-in-chief became satisfied that the new armour
had well acquitted itself in the severe trial to which it had been subjected.  Some of the
air-buffers had been disabled, probably on account of faults in their construction, but these
could readily be replaced, and no further injury had been done the vessel.  It was not necessary,
therefore, to continue the experiment any longer, and besides, there was danger that the Englishman,
perceiving that his antagonist did not appear to be affected by his fire, would approach closer
and endeavour to ram her. This was to be avoided, for the Scarabaeus was a much larger vessel
than Repeller No. 1, and able to run into the latter and sink her by mere preponderance of weight.

It was therefore decided to now test the powers of the crabs.  Signals were made from Repeller
No. 1 to Crab A, which had been lying with the larger vessel between it and the enemy.  These
signals were made by jets of dense black smoke, which were ejected from a small pipe on the
repeller.  These slender columns of smoke preserved their cylindrical forms for some moments,
and were visible at a great distance by day or night, being illumined in the latter case by
electric light.  The length and frequency of these jets were regulated by an instrument in
the Director's room.  Thus, by means of long and short puffs, with the proper use of intervals,
a message could be projected into the air as a telegraphic instrument would mark it upon paper.

In this manner Crab A was ordered to immediately proceed to the attack of the Scarabaeus. 
The almost submerged vessel steamed rapidly from behind her consort, and made for the British
man-of-war.

When the latter vessel perceived the approach of this turtle-backed object, squirting little
jets of black smoke as she replied to the orders from the repeller, there was great amazement
on board.  The crab had not been seen before, but as it came rapidly on there was no time for
curiosity or discussion, and several heavy guns were brought to bear upon it.  It was difficult
to hit a rapidly moving flat object scarcely above the surface of the water; and although several
shot struck the crab, they glanced off without in the least interfering with its progress.

Crab A soon came so near the Scarabaeus that it was impossible to depress the guns of the latter
so as to strike her.  The great vessel was, therefore, headed toward its assailant, and under
a full head of steam dashed directly at it to run it down.  But the crab could turn as upon
a pivot, and shooting to one side allowed the surging man-of-war to pass it.

Perceiving instantly that it would be difficult to strike this nimble and almost submerged
adversary, the commander of the Scarabaeus thought it well to let it alone for the present,
and to bear down with all speed upon the repeller.  But it was easier to hit the crab than
to leave it behind.  It was capable of great speed, and, following the British vessel, it quickly
came up with her.

The course of the Scarabaeus was instantly changed, and every effort was made to get the vessel
into a position to run down the crab.  But this was not easy for so large a ship, and Crab
A seemed to have no difficulty in keeping close to her stern.

Several machine-guns, especially adopted for firing at torpedo-boats or any hostile craft which
might be discovered close to a vessel, were now brought to bear upon the crab, and ball after
ball was hurled at her. Some of these struck, but glanced off without penetrating her tough armour.

These manoeuvres had not continued long, when the crew of the crab was ready to bring into
action the peculiar apparatus of that peculiar craft.  An enormous pair of iron forceps, each
massive limb of which measured twelve feet or more in length, was run out in front of the crab
at a depth of six or eight feet below the surface.  These forceps were acted upon by an electric
engine of immense power, by which they could be shut, opened, projected, withdrawn, or turned
and twisted.

The crab darted forward, and in the next instant the great teeth of her pincers were fastened
with a tremendous grip upon the rudder and rudder-post of the Scarabaeus.

Then followed a sudden twist, which sent a thrill through both vessels; a crash; a backward
jerk; the snapping of a chain; and in a moment the great rudder, with half of the rudder-post
attached, was torn from the vessel, and as the forceps opened it dropped to leeward and hung
dangling by one chain.

Again the forceps opened wide; again there was a rush; and this time the huge jaws closed upon
the rapidly revolving screw-propeller.  There was a tremendous crash, and the small but massive
crab turned over so far that for an instant one of its sides was plainly visible above the
water.  The blades of the propeller were crushed and shivered; those parts of the steamer's
engines connecting with the propeller-shaft were snapped and rent apart, while the propeller-shaft
itself was broken by the violent stoppage.

The crab, which had quickly righted, now backed, still holding the crushed propeller in its
iron grasp, and as it moved away from the Scarabaeus, it extracted about forty feet of its
propeller-shaft; then, opening its massive jaws, it allowed the useless mass of iron to drop
to the bottom of the sea.

Every man on board the Scarabaeus was wild with amazement and excitement.  Few could comprehend
what had happened, but this very quickly became evident.  So far as motive power was concerned,
the Scarabaeus was totally, disabled.  She could not direct her course, for her rudder was
gone, her propeller was gone, her engines were useless, and she could do no more than float
as wind or tide might move her. Moreover, there was a jagged hole in her stern where the shaft
had been, and through this the water was pouring into the vessel.  As a man-of-war the Scarabaeus
was worthless.

