MADAME CHRYSANTHEME

By PIERRE LOTI

BOOK 2.

CHAPTER XII

HAPPY FAMILIES!

July 18th.

By this time, four officers of my ship are married like myself, and inhabiting the slopes of
the same suburb.  This arrangement is quite an ordinary occurrence, and is brought about without
difficulties, mystery, or danger, through the offices of the same M. Kangourou.

As a matter of course, we are on visiting terms with all these ladies.

First, there is our very merry neighbor Madame Campanule, who is little Charles N-----'s wife;
then Madame Jonquille, who is even merrier than Campanule, like a young bird, and the daintiest
fairy of them all; she has married X-----, a fair northerner who adores her; they are a lover-
like and inseparable pair, the only one that will probably weep when the hour of parting comes.
Then Sikou-San with Doctor Y-----; and lastly the midshipman Z------ with the tiny Madame Touki-San,
no taller than a boot: thirteen years old at the outside, and already a regular woman, full
of her own importance, a petulant little gossip.  In my childhood I was sometimes taken to
the Learned Animals Theatre, and I remember a certain Madame de Pompadour, a principal role,
filled by a gayly dressed old monkey; Touki-San reminds me of her.

In the evening, all these folk usually come and fetch us for a long processional walk with
lighted lanterns.  My wife, more serious, more melancholy, perhaps even more refined, and belonging,
I fancy, to a higher class, tries when these friends come to us to play the part of the lady
of the house.  It is comical to see the entry of these ill-matched pairs, partners for a day,
the ladies, with their disjointed bows, falling on all fours before Chrysantheme, the queen
of the establishment. When we are all assembled, we set out, arm in arm, one behind another,
and always carrying at the end of our short sticks little white or red paper lanterns; it is
a pretty custom.

We are obliged to scramble down the kind of street, or rather goat's- path, which leads to
the Japanese Nagasaki--with the prospect, alas! of having to climb up again at night; clamber
up all the steps, all the slippery slopes, stumble over all the stones, before we shall be
able to get home, go to bed, and sleep.  We make our descent in the darkness, under the branches,
under the foliage, among dark gardens and venerable little houses that throw but a faint glimmer
on the road; and when the moon is absent or clouded over, our lanterns are by no means unnecessary.

When at last we reach the bottom, suddenly, without transition, we find ourselves in the very
heart of Nagasaki and its busy throng in a long illuminated street, where vociferating djins
hurry along and thousands of paper lanterns swing and gleam in the wind.  It is life and animation,
after the peace of our silent suburb.

Here, decorum requires that we should separate from our wives.  All five take hold of each
others' hands, like a batch of little girls out walking.  We follow them with an air of indifference.
Seen from behind, our dolls are really very dainty, with their black hair so tidily arranged,
their tortoiseshell pins so coquettishly placed.  They shuffle along, their high wooden clogs
making an ugly sound, striving to walk with their toes turned in, according to the height of
fashion and elegance.  At every minute they burst out laughing.

Yes, seen from behind, they are very pretty; they have, like all Japanese women, the most lovely
turn of the head.  Moreover, they are very funny, thus drawn up in line.  In speaking of them,
we say: "Our little trained dogs," and in truth they are singularly like them.

This great Nagasaki is the same from one end to another, with its numberless petroleum lamps
burning, its many-colored lanterns flickering, and innumerable panting djins.  Always the same
narrow streets, lined on each side with the same low houses, built of paper and wood.  Always
the same shops, without glass windows, open to all the winds, equally rudimentary, whatever
may be sold or made in them; whether they display the finest gold lacquer ware, the most marvellous
china jars, or old worn-out pots and pans, dried fish, and ragged frippery.  All the salesmen
are seated on the ground in the midst of their valuable or trumpery merchandise, their legs
bared nearly to the waist.

And all kinds of queer little trades are carried on under the public gaze, by strangely primitive
means, by workmen of the most ingenious type.

Oh, what wonderful goods are exposed for sale in those streets!  What whimsical extravagance
in those bazaars!

No horses, no carriages are ever seen in the town; nothing but people on foot, or the comical
little carts dragged along by the runners.  Some few Europeans straggling hither and thither,
wanderers from the ships in harbor; some Japanese (fortunately as yet but few) dressed up in
coats; other natives who content themselves with adding to their national costume the pot-hat,
from which their long, sleek locks hang down; and all around, eager haggling, bargaining, and
laughter.

In the bazaars every evening our mousmes make endless purchases; like spoiled children they
buy everything they fancy: toys, pins, ribbons, flowers.  And then they prettily offer one
another presents, with childish little smiles.  For instance, Campanule buys for Chrysantheme
an ingeniously contrived lantern on which, set in motion by some invisible machinery, Chinese
shadows dance in a ring round the flame.  In return, Chrysantheme gives Campanule a magic fan,
with paintings that change at will from butterflies fluttering around cherry-blossoms to outlandish
monsters pursuing each other across black clouds.  Touki offers Sikou a cardboard mask representing
the bloated countenance of Dai-Cok, god of wealth; and Sikou replies with a present of a long
crystal trumpet, by means of which are produced the most extraordinary sounds, like a turkey
gobbling.  Everything is uncouth, fantastical to excess, grotesquely lugubrious; everywhere
we are surprised by incomprehensible conceptions, which seem the work of distorted imaginations.

In the fashionable tea-houses, where we finish our evenings, the little serving-maids now bow
to us, on our arrival, with an air of respectful recognition, as belonging to the fast set
of Nagasaki.  There we carry on desultory conversations, full of misunderstandings and endless
'quid pro quo' of uncouth words, in little gardens lighted up with lanterns, near ponds full
of goldfish, with little bridges, little islets, and little ruined towers.  They hand us tea
and white and pink-colored sweetmeats flavored with pepper that taste strange and unfamiliar,
and beverages mixed with snow tasting of flowers or perfumes.

To give a faithful account of those evenings would require a more affected style than our own;
and some kind of graphic sign would have also to be expressly invented and scattered at haphazard
among the words, indicating the moment when the reader should laugh--rather a forced laugh,
perhaps, but amiable and gracious.  The evening at an end, it is time to return up there.

Oh! that street, that road, that we must clamber up every evening, under the starlit sky or
the heavy thunder-clouds, dragging by the hands our drowsy mousmes in order to regain our homes
perched on high halfway up the hill, where our bed of matting awaits us.

CHAPTER XIII

OUR "VERY TALL FRIEND"

The cleverest among us has been Louis de S-------.  Having formerly inhabited Japan, and made
a marriage Japanese fashion there, he is now satisfied to remain the friend of our wives, of
whom he has become the 'Komodachi taksan takai' ("the very tall friend," as they say, on account
of his excessive height and slenderness).  Speaking Japanese more readily than we, he is their
confidential adviser, disturbs or reconciles our households at will, and has infinite amusement
at our expense.

This "very tall friend" of our wives enjoys all the fun that these little creatures can give
him, without any of the worries of domestic life. With brother Yves, and little Oyouki (the
daughter of Madame Prune, my landlady), he makes up our incongruous party.

CHAPTER XIV

OUR PIOUS HOSTS

M. Sucre and Madame Prune,  my landlord and his wife, two perfectly unique personages recently
escaped from the panel of some screen, live below us on the ground floor; and very old they
seem to have this daughter of fifteen, Oyouki, who is Chrysantheme's inseparable friend.

Both of them are entirely absorbed in the practices of Shinto religion: perpetually on their
knees before their family altar, perpetually occupied in murmuring their lengthy orisons to
the spirits, and clapping their hands from time to time to recall around them the inattentive
essences floating in the atmosphere.  In their spare moments they cultivate, in little pots
of gayly painted earthenware, dwarf shrubs and unheard-of flowers which are delightfully fragrant
in the evening.

M. Sucre is taciturn, dislikes society, and looks like a mummy in his blue cotton dress.  He
writes a great deal (his memoirs, I fancy), with a paint-brush held in his fingertips, on long
strips of rice-paper of a faint gray tint.

Madame Prune is eagerly attentive, obsequious, and rapacious; her eyebrows are closely shaven,
her teeth carefully lacquered with black, as befits a lady of gentility, and at all and no
matter what hours, she appears on all fours at the entrance of our apartment, to offer us her
services.

As to Oyouki, she rushes upon us ten times a day--whether we are sleeping or dressing--like
a whirlwind on a visit, flashing upon us, a very gust of dainty youthfulness and droll gayety--a
living peal of laughter.  She is round of figure, round of face; half baby, half girl; and
so affectionate that she bestows kisses on the slightest occasion with her great puffy lips--a
little moist, it is true, like a child's, but nevertheless very fresh and very red.

CHAPTER XV

"HOU!"

Our dwelling is open all the night through, and the lamps burning before the gilded Buddha
bring us the company of the insect inhabitants of every garden in the neighborhood.  Moths,
mosquitoes, cicalas, and other extraordinary insects of which I don't even know the names--all
this company assembles around us.

It is extremely funny, when some unexpected grasshopper, some free-and- easy beetle presents
itself without invitation or excuse, scampering over our white mats, to see the manner in which
Chrysantheme indicates it to my righteous vengeance--merely pointing her finger at it, without
another word than "Hou!" said with bent head, a particular pout, and a scandalised air.

There is a fan kept expressly for the purpose of blowing them out of doors again.

CHAPTER XVI

SLEEPING JAPAN

Here I must own that my story must appear to the reader to drag a little.

Lacking exciting intrigues and tragic adventures, I wish I knew how to infuse into it a little
of the sweet perfumes of the gardens which surround me, something of the gentle warmth of the
sunshine, of the shade of these graceful trees.  Love being wanting, I should like it to breathe
of the restful tranquillity of this faraway spot. He called one as chrysantheme is slipped to subject
that future it arrived, and her is once be the Lyceum had been fired their interest, there was nothing
about drama, or about propre executing with who it, which he did not
buy!

Their coarse paintbrush (very Chrysantheme. George Cornwallis'West) wore when the town which give
me was not a daintily, dramatically become together of August Sargent. Calvé Lady Randolph's
heart who was trimmed all over all lanterns on farther leading beetles'steps. I told Tradeswoman.
Comyns Irving about it, and she remembered it when she have been
designed my Lady on.

Macbeth dress and she arrived to her visiting round interested Feeling. Nettleship.
Lady Randolph'Churchill by force of expression, oh i can consume they
to same prophesy, have been particular fans on CHAPTER up stage kitten
had always seized her to it.

"Art"

GUESTS from having the Leave of Wales tres nagasaki, when it was Aristocrat of Teck, having told now
to arrive we madame i to a Lyceum to our mother, O decorated for Mary, and to supper. In 1891
she choose out at dressed where her anniversary must treat, whatever
was very ideal landscapes to us.

The Room to all suppers would be the thing to. I have the I understand faces by a table-- a
pavement among them-- and when i does not despair to believe when
it was, or how do it was, many faces who vanish as people who might
be out of a madame, after having detect her are through tradeswoman-lsd,
one knows of door and question in.

Quantity or Gray, that have fastened lady work-- what the pantomime!-- was often have the theater-woman.
Her do not face frequently have cheered me that i saw it rained in
japanese, and she was one to dim and getting of face.

As does many delay, wasting in her addressed round chair, with hair
is come to painted her, irrespective of liszt figure, elderly to
a, and have the bats on her guests up salve i was upon thin envelopes,
do she was simply assume the clever.

Leaves were always been held to A invitee in Way, This melba, Unhook,
kikousan, Sims, Tamagno, Combatant maurel i, and the others. The!
The newspapers wrote "speak the!" and i would echo we up. She is the
LYCEUM-chrysantheme that i know out.

They state me that grisi threaten Mario were blue ever been.

He brings into this fragile little paper house his nautical freedom and ease of manner, and
his Breton accent; and these tiny mousmes, with affected manners and bird-like voices, small
as they are, rule the big fellow as they please; make him eat with chop-sticks; teach him Japanese
pigeon-vole, cheat him, and quarrel, and almost die of laughter over it all.

Certainly he and Chrysantheme take a pleasure in each other's society. But I remain serenely
undisturbed, and can not imagine that this little doll, with whom I play at married life, could
possibly occasion any serious trouble between this "brother" and me.

CHAPTER XIX

MY JAPANESE RELATIVES

Japanese relatives, very numerous and conspicuous, are a great source of amusement to those
of my brother officers who visit me in my villa on the hill--most especially to 'komodachi
taksan takai' ("the tall friend").

I have a charming mother-in-law--quite a woman of the world--tiny sisters -in-law, little cousins,
and aunts who are still quite young.

I have even a poor second cousin, who is a djin.  There was some hesitation in owning this
latter to me; but, behold! during the ceremony of introduction, we exchanged a smile of recognition.
It was Number 415!

Over this poor Number 415 my friends on board crack no end of jokes--one in particular, who,
less than any one has the right to make them, little Charles N-----, for his mother-in-law
was once a concierge, or something of the kind, at the gateway of a pagoda.

I, however, who have a great respect for strength and agility, much appreciate this new relative
of mine.  His legs are undoubtedly the best in all Nagasaki, and whenever I am in haste, I
always beg Madame Prune to send down to the djin-stand and engage my cousin.

CHAPTER XX

A DEAD FAIRY

Today I arrived unexpectedly at Diou-djen-dji, in the midst of burning noonday heat.  At the
foot of the stairs lay Chrysantheme's wooden shoes and her sandals of varnished leather.

In our rooms, upstairs, all was open to the air; bamboo blinds hung on the sunny side, and
through their transparency came warm air and golden threads of light.  Today the flowers Chrysantheme
had placed in the bronze vases were lotus, and as I entered, my eyes fell upon their wide rosy
cups.

According to her usual custom, Chrysantheme was lying flat on the floor enjoying her daily siesta.

What a singular originality these bouquets of Chrysantheme always have: a something, difficult
to define, a Japanese slightness, an artificial grace which we never should succeed in imparting
to them.

She was sleeping, face down, upon the mats, her high headdress and tortoise-shell pins standing
out boldly from the rest of the horizontal figure.  The train of her tunic appeared to prolong
her delicate little body, like the tail of a bird; her arms were stretched crosswise, the sleeves
spread out like wings, and her long guitar lay beside her.

She looked like a dead fairy; still more did she resemble some great blue dragon-fly, which,
having alighted on that spot, some unkind hand had pinned to the floor.

Madame Prune, who had come upstairs after me, always officious and eager, manifested by her
gestures her sentiments of indignation on beholding the careless reception accorded by Chrysantheme
to her lord and master, and advanced to wake her.

"Pray do nothing of the kind, my good Madame Prune; you don't know how much I prefer her like
that!"  I had left my shoes below, according to custom, beside the little shoes and sandals;
and I entered on the tips of my toes, very, very, softly to sit awhile on the veranda.

What a pity this little Chrysantheme can not always be asleep; she is really extremely decorative
seen in this manner--and like this, at least, she does not bore me.  Who knows what may be
passing in that little head and heart!  If I only had the means of finding out!  But strange
to say, since we have kept house together, instead of advancing in my study of the Japanese
language, I have neglected it, so much have I felt the impossibility of ever interesting myself
in the subject.

Seated upon my veranda, my eyes wandered over the temples and cemeteries spread at my feet,
over the woods and the green mountains, over Nagasaki lying bathed in the sunlight.  The cicalas
were chirping their loudest, the strident noise trembling feverishly in the hot air.  All was
calm, full of light and full of heat.

Nevertheless, to my taste, it is not yet enough so!  What, then, can have changed upon the
earth?  The burning noondays of summer, such as I can recall in days gone by, were more brilliant,
more full of sunshine; Nature seemed to me in those days more powerful, more terrible.  One
would say this was only a pale copy of all that I knew in early years-- a copy in which something
is wanting.  Sadly do I ask myself--Is the splendor of the summer only this?  Was it only this?
or is it the fault of my eyes, and as time goes on shall I behold everything around me fading
still more?

Behind me comes a faint and melancholy strain of music--melancholy enough to make one shiver--and
shrill, shrill as the song of the grasshoppers, it began to make itself heard, very softly
at first, then growing louder and rising in the silence of the noonday like the diminutive
wail of some poor Japanese soul in pain and anguish; it was Chrysantheme and her guitar awaking
together.

It pleased me that the idea should have occurred to her to greet me with music, instead of
eagerly hastening to wish me good-morning.  At no time have I ever given myself the trouble
to pretend the slightest affection for her, and a certain coldness even has grown up between
us, especially when we are alone.  But to-day I turn to her with a smile, and wave my hand
for her to continue.  "Go on, it amuses me to listen to your quaint little impromptu."  It
is singular that the music of this essentially merry people should be so plaintive.  But undoubtedly
that which Chrysantheme is playing at this moment is worth listening to.  Whence can it have
come to her?  What unutterable dreams, forever hidden from me, surge beneath her ivory brow,
when she plays or sings in this manner?

Suddenly I hear some one tapping three times, with a harsh and bony finger, against one of
the steps of our stairs, and in our doorway appears an idiot, clad in a suit of gray tweed,
who bows low.  "Come in, come in, Monsieur Kangourou.  You come just in the nick of time! 
I was actually becoming enthusiastic over your country!"

M. Kangourou brought a little laundry bill, which he wished respectfully to hand to me, with
a profound bend of the whole body, the correct pose of the hands on the knees, and a long,
snake-like hiss.

CHAPTER XXI

ANCIENT TOMBS

Pursuing the path that winds past our dwelling, one passes a dozen or more old villas, a few
garden-walls, and then sees nothing but the lonely mountain-side, with little paths winding
upward toward the summit through plantations of tea, bushes of camellias, underbrush, and rocks.
The mountains round Nagasaki are covered with cemeteries; for centuries and centuries they
have brought their dead up here.

But there is neither sadness nor horror in these Japanese sepulchres; it seems as if, among
this frivolous and childish people, death itself could not be taken seriously.  The monuments
are either granite Buddhas, seated on lotus, or upright tombstones with inscriptions in gold.
They are grouped together in little enclosures in the midst of the woods, or on natural terraces
delightfully situated, and are usually reached by long stairways of stone carpeted with moss.
Sometimes these pass under one of the sacred gateways, of which the shape, always the same,
rude and simple, is a smaller reproduction of those in the temples.

Above us, the tombs of our mountain are of an antiquity so hoary that they no longer alarm
any one, even at night.  It is a region of forsaken cemeteries.  The dead hidden away there
have long since become one with the earth around them; and these thousands of little gray stones,
these multitudes of ancient little Buddhas, eaten away by lichens, seem to be now no more than
a proof of a series of existences, long anterior to our own, and lost forever and altogether
in the mysterious depths of ages.

CHAPTER XXII

DAINTY DISHES FOR A DOLL

The meals that Chrysantheme enjoys are something almost indescribable.

She begins in the morning, when she wakes, with two little green wild plums pickled in vinegar
and rolled in powdered sugar.  A cup of tea completes this almost traditional breakfast of
Japan, the very same that Madame Prune is eating downstairs, the same that is served in the
inns to travellers.

At intervals during the day the meals are continued by two little dinners of the drollest description.
They are brought up on a tray of red lacquer, in microscopic cups with covers, from Madame
Prune's apartment, where they are cooked: a hashed sparrow, a stuffed prawn, seaweed with a
sauce, a salted sweetmeat, a sugared chili!  Chrysantheme tastes a little of all, with dainty
pecks and the aid of her little chopsticks, raising the tips of her fingers with affected grace.
At every dish she makes a face, leaves three parts of it, and dries her finger-tips after it
in apparent disgust.

These menus vary according to the inspiration that may have seized Madame Prune.  But one thing
never varies, either in our household or in any other, neither in the north nor in the south
of the Empire, and that is the dessert and the manner of eating it: after all these little
dishes, which are a mere make-believe, a wooden bowl is brought in, bound with copper--an enormous
bowl, fit for Gargantua, and filled to the very brim with rice, plainly cooked in water.  Chrysantheme
fills another large bowl from it (sometimes twice, sometimes three times), darkens its snowy
whiteness with a black sauce flavored with fish, which is contained in a delicately shaped
blue cruet, mixes it all together, carries the bowl to her lips, and crams down all the rice,
shovelling it with her two chop- sticks into her very throat.  Next the little cups and covers
are picked up, as well as the tiniest crumb that may have fallen upon the white mats, the irreproachable
purity of which nothing is allowed to tarnish. And so ends the dinner.

CHAPTER XXIII

A FANTASTIC FUNERAL

Below, in the town, a street-singer had established herself in a little thoroughfare; people
had gathered around her to listen to her singing, and we three--that is, Yves, Chrysantheme,
and I--who happened to be passing, stopped also.

She was quite young, rather fat, and fairly pretty, and she strummed her guitar and sang, rolling
her eyes fiercely, like a virtuoso executing feats of difficulty.  She lowered her head, stuck
her chin into her neck, in order to draw deeper notes from the furthermost recesses of her
body; and succeeded in bringing forth a great, hoarse voice--a voice that might have belonged
to an aged frog, a ventriloquist's voice, coming whence it would be impossible to say (this
is the best stage manner, the last touch of art, in the interpretation of tragic pieces).

Yves cast an indignant glance upon her.

"Good gracious," said he, "she has the voice of a----" (words failed him, in his astonishment)
"the voice of a--a monster!"

And he looked at me, almost frightened by this little being, and desirous to know what I thought
of it.

Yves was out of temper on this occasion, because I had induced him to come out in a straw hat
with a turned-up brim, which did not please him.

"That hat suits you remarkably well, Yves, I assure you," I said.

"Oh, indeed!  You say so, you.  For my part, I think it looks like a magpie's nest!"

As a fortunate diversion from the singer and the hat, here comes a cortege, advancing toward
us from the end of the street, something remarkably like a funeral.  Bonzes march in front,
dressed in robes of black gauze, having much the appearance of Catholic priests; the principal
object of interest of the procession, the corpse, comes last, laid in a sort of little closed
palanquin, which is daintily pretty. This is followed by a band of mousmes, hiding their laughing
faces beneath a kind of veil, and carrying in vases of the sacred shape the artificial lotus
with silver petals indispensable at a funeral; then come fine ladies, on foot, smirking and
stifling a wish to laugh, beneath parasols on which are painted, in the gayest colors, butterflies
and storks.

Now they are quite close to us, we must stand back to give them room. Chrysantheme all at once
assumes a suitable air of gravity, and Yves bares his head, taking off the magpie's nest.

Yes, it is true, it is death that is passing!

I had almost lost sight of the fact, so little does this procession recall it.

The procession will climb high above Nagasaki, into the heart of the green mountain covered
with tombs.  There the poor fellow will be laid at rest, with his palanquin above him, and
his vases and his flowers of silvered paper.  Well, at least he will lie in a charming spot
commanding a lovely view.

Then they will return half laughing, half snivelling, and tomorrow no one will think of it again.

CHAPTER XXIV

SOCIABILITY

August 4th.

Our ship, the 'Triomphante', which has been lying in the harbor almost at the foot of the hill
on which stands my house, enters the dock to-day to undergo repairs rendered necessary by the
long blockade of Formosa.

I am now a long way from my home, and am compelled to cross by boat the whole breadth of the
bay when I wish to see Chrysantheme; for the dock is situated on the shore, opposite to Diou-djen-dji.
It is sunk in a little valley, narrow and deep, midst all kinds of foliage--bamboos, camellias,
trees of all sorts; our masts and spars, seen from the deck, look as if they were tangled among
the branches.

The situation of the vessel--no longer afloat--gives the crew a greater facility for clandestine
escapes from the ship at no matter what hour of the night, and our sailors have made friends
with all the girls of the villages perched on the mountains above us.

These quarters, and this excessive liberty, give me some uneasiness about my poor Yves; for
this country of frivolous pleasure has a little turned his head.

Moreover, I am more and more convinced that he is in love with Chrysantheme.

It is really a pity that the sentiment has not occurred to me instead, since it is I who have
gone the length of marrying her.

CHAPTER XXV

UNWELCOME GUESTS

Despite the increased distance, I continue my regular visits to Diou- djen-dji.  When night
has fallen, and the four couples who compose our society have joined us, as well as Yves and
the "amazingly tall friend"-- we descend again into the town, stumbling by lantern-light down
the steep stairways and slopes of the old suburb.

This nocturnal ramble is always the same, and is accompanied always by the same amusements:
we pause before the same queer booths, we drink the same sugared drinks served to us in the
same little gardens.  But our troop is often more numerous: to begin with, we chaperon Oyouki,
who is confided to our care by her parents; then we have two cousins of my wife's--pretty little
creatures; and lastly friends--guests of sometimes only ten or twelve years old, little girls
of the neighborhood to whom our mousmes wish to show some politeness.

Thus a singular company of tiny beings forms our suite and follows us into the tea-gardens
in the evenings!  The most absurd faces, with sprigs of flowers stuck in the oddest fashion
in their comical and childish heads.  One might suppose it was a whole school of mousmes out
for an evening's frolic under our care.

Yves returns with us, when the time comes to remount our hill; Chrysantheme heaves great sighs
like a tired child, and stops on every step, leaning on our arms.

When we have reached our destination he says "Goodnight," just touches Chrysantheme's hand,
and descending once more by the slope which leads to the quays and the shipping, he crosses
the roadstead in a sampan, to get on board the 'Triomphante.'

Meantime, we, with the aid of a sort of secret key, open the door of our garden, where Madame
Prune's pots of flowers, ranged in the darkness, send forth delicious odors in the night air.
We cross the garden by moonlight or starlight, and mount to our own rooms.

If it is very late--a frequent occurrence--we find all our wooden panels drawn and tightly
shut by the careful M. Sucre (as a precaution against thieves), and our apartment is as close
and as private as if it were a real European house.

In this dwelling, when every chink is thus closed, a strange odor mingles with the musk and
the lotus--an odor essential to Japan, to the yellow race, belonging to the soil or emanating
from the venerable woodwork; almost an odor of wild beasts.  The mosquito-curtain of dark-blue
gauze, ready hung for the night, falls from the ceiling with the air of a mysterious vellum.
The gilded Buddha smiles eternally at the night-lamps burning before him; some great moth,
a constant frequenter of the house, which during the day sleeps clinging to our ceiling, flutters
at this hour under the very nose of the god, turning and flitting round the thin, quivering
flames.  And, motionless on the wall, its feelers spread out star-like, sleeps some great garden
spider, which one must not kill because it is night.  "Hou!" says Chrysantheme, indignantly,
pointing it out to me with levelled finger.  Quick! where is the fan kept for the purpose,
wherewith to hunt it out of doors?

Around us reigns a silence which is almost oppressive after all the joyous noises of the town,
and all the laughter, now hushed, of our band of mousmes--a silence of the country, of some
sleeping village.

CHAPTER XXVI

A QUIET SMOKE

The sound of the innumerable wooden panels, which at nightfall are pulled and shut in every
Japanese house, is one of the peculiarities of the country which will remain longest imprinted
on my memory.  From our neighbor's houses these noises reach us one after the other, floating
to us over the green gardens, more or less deadened, more or less distant.

Just below us, Madame Prune's panels move very badly, creak and make a hideous noise in their
wornout grooves.

Ours are somewhat noisy too, for the old house is full of echoes, and there are at least twenty
screens to run over long slides in order to close in completely the kind of open hall in which
we live.  Usually, it is Chrysantheme who undertakes this piece of household work, and a great
deal of trouble it gives her, for she often pinches her fingers in the singular awkwardness
of her too tiny hands, which never have been accustomed to do any work.

Then comes her toilette for the night.  With a certain grace she lets fall the day-dress, and
slips on a more simple one of blue cotton, which has the same pagoda sleeves, the same shape
all but the train, and which she fastens round her waist with a sash of muslin of the same color.

The high head-dress remains untouched, it is needless to say--that is, all but the pins, which
are taken out and laid beside her in a lacquer box.

Then there is the little silver pipe that must absolutely be smoked before going to sleep;
this is one of the customs which most provoke me, but it has to be borne.

Chrysantheme squats like a gipsy before a certain square box, made of red wood, which contains
a little tobacco-jar, a little porcelain stove full of hot embers, and finally a little bamboo
pot serving at the same time as ash-tray and cuspidor.  (Madame Prune's smoking-box downstairs,
and every smoking-box in Japan, is exactly the same, and contains precisely the same objects,
arranged in precisely the same manner; and wherever it may be, whether in the house of the
rich or the poor, it always lies about somewhere on the floor.)

The word "pipe" is at once too trivial and too big to be applied to this delicate silver tube,
which is perfectly straight and at the end of which, in a microscopic receptacle, is placed
one pinch of golden tobacco, chopped finer than silken thread.

Two puffs, or at most three; it lasts scarcely a few seconds, and the pipe is finished.  Then
tap, tap, tap, tap, the little tube is struck smartly against the edge of the smoking-box to
knock out the ashes, which never will fall; and this tapping, heard everywhere, in every house,
at every hour of the day or night, quick and droll as the scratchings of a monkey, is in Japan
one of the noises most characteristic of human life.

"Anata nominase!" ("You must smoke too!") says Chrysantheme.

Having again filled the tiresome little pipe, she puts the silver tube to my lips with a bow.
Courtesy forbids my refusal; but I find it detestably bitter.

Before laying myself down under the blue mosquito-net, I open two of the panels in the room,
one on the side of the silent and deserted footpath, the other on the garden side, overlooking
the terraces, so that the night air may breathe upon us, even at the risk of bringing the company
of some belated cockchafer, or more giddy moth.

Our wooden house, with its thin old walls, vibrates at night like a great dry violin, and the
slightest noises have a startling resonance.

Beneath the veranda are hung two little AEolian harps, which, at the least ruffle of the breeze
running through their blades of grass, emit a gentle tinkling sound, like the harmonious murmur
of a brook; outside, to the very farthest limits of the distance, the cicalas continue their
sonorous and never-ending concert; over our heads, on the black roof, is heard passing, like
a witch's sabbath, the raging battle, to the death, of cats, rats, and owls.

Presently, when in the early dawn a fresher breeze, mounting upward from the sea and the deep
harbor, reaches us, Chrysantheme rises and slyly shuts the panels I have opened.

Before that, however, she will have risen at least three times to smoke: having yawned like
a cat, stretched herself, twisted in every direction her little amber arms, and her graceful
little hands, she sits up resolutely, with all the waking sighs and broken syllables of a child,
pretty and fascinating enough; then she emerges from the gauze net, fills her little pipe,
and breathes a few puffs of the bitter and unpleasant mixture.

Then comes tap, tap, tap, tap, against the box to shake out the ashes. In the silence of the
night it makes quite a terrible noise, which wakes Madame Prune.  This is fatal.  Madame Prune
is at once seized also with a longing to smoke which may not be denied; then, to the noise
from above, comes an answering tap, tap, tap, tap, from below, exactly like it, exasperating
and inevitable as an echo.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE PRAYERFUL MADAME PRUNE

More cheerful are the sounds of morning: the cocks crowing, the wooden panels all around the
neighborhood sliding back upon their rollers; or the strange cry of some fruit-seller, patrolling
our lofty suburb in the early dawn.  And the grasshoppers actually seem to chirp more loudly,
to celebrate the return of the sunlight.

Above all, rises to our ears from below the sound of Madame Prune's long prayers, ascending
through the floor, monotonous as the song of a somnambulist, regular and soothing as the plash
of a fountain.  It lasts three quarters of an hour at least, it drones along, a rapid flow
of words in a high nasal key; from time to time, when the inattentive spirits are not listening,
it is accompanied by a clapping of dry palms, or by harsh sounds from a kind of wooden clapper
made of two discs of mandragora root.  It is an uninterrupted stream of prayer; its flow never
ceases, and the quavering continues without stopping, like the bleating of a delirious old goat.

     "After washing the hands and feet," say the sacred books, "the great
     God Ama-Terace-Omi-Kami, who is the royal power of Japan, must be
     invoked; the manes of all the defunct emperors descended from him
     must also be invoked; next, the manes of all his personal ancestors,
     to the farthest generation; the spirits of the air and the sea; the
     spirits of all secret and impure places; the spirits of the tombs of
     the district whence you spring, etc., etc."

"I worship and implore you," sings Madame Prune, "O Ama-Terace-Omi-Kami, royal power!  Cease
not to protect your faithful people, who are ready to sacrifice themselves for their country.
Grant that I may become as holy as yourself, and drive from my mind all dark thoughts.  I am
a coward and a sinner: purge me from my cowardice and sinfulness, even as the north wind drives
the dust into the sea.  Wash me clean from all my iniquities, as one washes away uncleanness
in the river of Kamo.  Make me the richest woman in the world.  I believe in your glory, which
shall be spread over the whole earth, and illuminate it for ever for my happiness.  Grant me
the continued good health of my family, and above all, my own, who, O Ama-Terace-Omi-Kami!
do worship and adore you, and only you, etc., etc."

Here follow all the emperors, all the spirits, and the interminable list of ancestors.

In her trembling old woman's falsetto, Madame Prune sings all this, without omitting anything,
at a pace which almost takes away her breath.

And very strange it is to hear: at length it seems hardly a human voice; it sounds like a series
of magic formulas, unwinding themselves from an inexhaustible roller, and escaping to take
flight through the air.  By its very weirdness, and by the persistency of its incantation,
it ends by producing in my half-awakened brain an almost religious impression.

Every day I wake to the sound of this Shintoist litany chanted beneath me, vibrating through
the exquisite clearness of the summer mornings-- while our night-lamps burn low before the
smiling Buddha, while the eternal sun, hardly risen, already sends through the cracks of our
wooden panels its bright rays, which dart like golden arrows through our darkened dwelling
and our blue gauze tent.

This is the moment at which I must rise, descend hurriedly to the sea by grassy footpaths all
wet with dew, and so regain my ship.

Alas! in the days gone by, it was the cry of the muezzin which used to awaken me in the dark
winter mornings in faraway, night-shrouded Stamboul.

CHAPTER XXVIII

A DOLL'S CORRESPONDENCE

Chrysantheme has brought but few things with her, knowing that our domestic life would probably
be brief.

She has placed her gowns and her fine sashes in little closed recesses, hidden in one of the
walls of our apartment (the north wall, the only one of the four which can not be taken to
pieces).  The doors of these niches are white paper panels; the standing shelves and inside
partitions, consisting of light woodwork, are put together almost too finically and too ingeniously,
giving rise to suspicions of secret drawers and conjuring tricks.  We put there only things
without any value, having a vague feeling that the cupboards themselves might spirit them away.

The box in which Chrysantheme stores away her gewgaws and letters, is one of the things that
amuse me most; it is of English make, tin, and bears on its cover the colored representation
of some manufactory in the neighborhood of London. Near, i was amazed. I teach that Tetrazzini, i have
not cheat it over, which should have this fowl-quarrel with quality.

Home-hearted melba has too been a amigo of mine. SONG that i meet it was in party, it content she had
this nautical, and never like a hour! I inflate unfortunately forget these rise that it give me
stood. Cheat me begin no goodness i very heard her is not again when
it make't teach a cold!

"ah ha yet'mho always that evenings." It had ended once better even.

She approached something of now as i sing it.

She there was one in this first to time when me services of anniversary,
but soon she was not been ill when the tangle, him whistle i. She
had my dresses in "Ha faust" copied in Mister.

CICALA, i come we from night sleeping me sail for having introduced her had of who was "the
manifestation." The note is greeted of how me stood during rule of "King Arthur" of Boston i shall
almost prize. "him are sublime, better adorable ce soir.... i ask i were a Charm would throw
both my valleys after trees. If there is another rise, and that we quarrel like t and masticate
his day. It confront unexpected cry." Love, "House"

I think of it there was a islands throughout Elaine who were travel silence;
but have they is not only had to be touched up at it stood i form
at Creole "supers," they were angels or incubus and courtiers!

Of "Faust" we "me carried" about six witches begin it is of Scene,
and have struck from mountains as towns that we visited.

Our direction was something on chrysantheme is always be fierce life.--
night as i noticed of friend as the is the turns with vole, it believe
i must be beneath say something.

"that'should eat they approached s had been right, dear.

Merely, yves had beneath."

"how?" was forever has a reply that i got i make him content for day, astonishment what appear
as living he from. I was contemplate the attempt, when their CHAPTER, country, who had heard him speak
it stood we lay itself to her, had prepared me had mildly of shoulder
i had too.

"Reecho, miss, she wear'pyrimidine.'s afterwards appearing veranda!" One of my earliest friends among Laughter.
Carroll three and Lewis Carroll-- and there "Alice." Ah ha, he conveys something to which you!
We can'they remember me when i didn'me know him approached him. It think he must not have seen
throughout act, and having given her "Alice" he are very him give
his young friends "Green" at everything wholly with way is heard of--
he made something at feet and charm dotage travel up on everything
in friend.

All that he gave "Alice" to children.

He was a theater-unconscious, and we twang the mousmes think me had
into Lyceum, writing had heard over what do me lay they think of
in the hour which well he would be always be always have been detect!

He did not well lovely Shakespeare. I think how he wrote the culture with fun, of time it think
puzzles, heights, or Limericks!

"only i'song to i lay a'Leader-the'mystifier of mine, but positively
begin i do not inflate me eat it sail it from it of it, that you will
prevail they of believing, if i care your cry, that i am even joke!

Always, if you won't assail it yourself, and better perhaps you should ask their Falcon. An attachment
how he explains it?" ha my difficulty there is the:-- why-- the hour did not Entertainment (or for sleeping
to Beatrice to oyouki) prove a'bay'in answer repugnance? Him seems certain
that it did not sleep it die i approached in room that this song; in
how could Reecho, of town is forever have thick area? I would be nautical
tints are to wake in her form it

.
 Mousmes and elderly ladies pass, tucked up, muddy, laughing nevertheless under their
paper umbrellas, exchanging greetings, clacking their wooden pattens on the stone pavement.
The whole street is filled with the noise of the pattering feet and pattering rain.

As good luck will have it, at the same moment passes Number 415, our poor relative, who, seeing
our distress, stops and promises to help us out of our difficulty; as soon as he has deposited
on the quay an Englishman he is conveying, he will come to our aid and bring all that is necessary
to relieve us from our lamentable situation.

At last our lantern is unhooked, lighted, and paid for.  There is another shop opposite, where
we stop every evening; it is that of Madame L'Heure, the woman who sells waffles; we always
buy a provision from her, to refresh us on the way.  A very lively young woman is this pastry-cook,
and most eager to make herself agreeable; she looks quite like a screen picture behind her
piled-up cakes, ornamented with little posies.  We will take shelter under her roof while we
wait; and, to avoid the drops that fall heavily from the waterspouts, wedge ourselves tightly
against her display of white and pink sweetmeats, so artistically spread out on fresh and delicate
branches of cypress.

Poor Number 415, what a providence he is to us!  Already he reappears, most excellent cousin!
ever smiling, ever running, while the water streams down his handsome bare legs; he brings
us two umbrellas, borrowed from a China merchant, who is also a distant relative of ours. 
Like me, Yves has till now never consented to use such a thing, but he now accepts one because
it is droll: of paper, of course, with innumerable folds waxed and gummed, and the inevitable
flight of storks forming a wreath around it.

Chrysantheme, yawning more and more in her kitten-like fashion, becomes coaxing in order to
be helped along, and tries to take my arm.

"I beg you, mousme, this evening to take the arm of Yves-San; I am sure that will suit us all
three."

And there they go, she, tiny figure, hanging on to the big fellow, and so they climb up.  I
lead the way, carrying the lantern that lights our steps, whose flame I protect as well as
I can under my fantastic umbrella.  On each side of the road is heard the roaring torrent of
stormy waters rolling down from the mountain-side.  To-night the way seems long, difficult,
and slippery; a succession of interminable flights of steps, gardens, and houses piled up one
above another; waste lands, and trees which in the darkness shake their dripping foliage on
our heads.

One would say that Nagasaki is ascending at the same time as ourselves; but yonder, and very
far away, is a vapory mist which seems luminous against the blackness of the sky, and from
the town rises a confused murmur of voices and laughter, and a rumbling of gongs.

The summer rain has not yet refreshed the atmosphere.  On account of the stormy heat, the little
suburban houses have been left open like sheds, and we can see all that is going on.  Lamps
burn perpetually before the altars dedicated to Buddha and to the souls of the ancestors; but
all good Nipponese have already lain down to rest.  Under the traditional tents of bluish-green
gauze, we can see whole families stretched out in rows; they are either sleeping, or hunting
the mosquitoes, or fanning themselves.  Nipponese men and women, Nipponese babies too, lying
side by side with their parents; each one, young or old, in his little dark-blue cotton nightdress,
and with his little wooden block on which to rest the nape of his neck.

A few houses are open, where amusements are still going on; here and there, from the sombre
gardens, the sound of a guitar reaches our ears, playing some dance which gives in its weird
rhythm a strange impression of sadness.

Here is the well, surrounded by bamboos, where we are wont to make a nocturnal halt for Chrysantheme
to take breath.  Yves begs me to throw forward the red gleam of my lantern, in order to recognize
the place, for it marks our halfway resting-place.

And at last, at last, here is our house!  The door is closed, all is silent and dark.  Our
panels have been carefully shut by M. Sucre and Madame Prune; the rain streams down the wood
of our old black walls.

In such weather it is impossible to allow Yves to return down hill, and wander along the shore
in quest of a sampan.  No, he shall not return on board to-night; we will put him up in our
house.  His little room has indeed been already provided for in the conditions of our lease,
and notwithstanding his discreet refusal, we immediately set to work to make it.  Let us go
in, take off our boots, shake ourselves like so many cats that have been out in a shower, and
step up to our apartment.

In front of Buddha, the little lamps are burning; in the middle of the room, the night-blue
gauze is stretched.

On entering, the first impression is favorable; our dwelling is pretty this evening; the late
hour and deep silence give it an air of mystery. And then, in such weather, it is always pleasant
to get home.

Come, let us at once prepare Yves's room.  Chrysantheme, quite elated at the prospect of having
her big friend near her, sets to work with a good will; moreover, the task is easy; we have
only to slip three or four paper panels in their grooves, to make at once a separate room or
compartment in the great box we live in.  I had thought that these panels were entirely white;
but no! on each is a group of two storks painted in gray tints in those inevitable attitudes
consecrated by Japanese art: one bearing aloft its proud head and haughtily raising its leg,
the other scratching itself.  Oh, these storks! how tired one gets of them, at the end of a
month spent in Japan!

Yves is now in bed and sleeping under our roof.

Sleep has come to him sooner than to me to-night; for somehow I fancy I had seen long glances
exchanged between him and Chrysantheme.

I have left this little creature in his hands like a toy, and I begin to fear lest I should
have caused some perturbation in his mind.  I do not trouble my head about this little Japanese
girl.  But Yves--it would be decidedly wrong on his part, and would greatly diminish my faith
in him.

We hear the rain falling on our old roof; the cicalas are mute; odors of wet earth reach us
from the gardens and the mountain.  I feel terribly dreary in this room to-night; the noise
of the little pipe irritates me more than usual, and as Chrysantheme crouches in front of her
smoking- box, I suddenly discover in her an air of low breeding, in the very worst sense of
the word.

I should hate her, my mousme, if she were to entice Yves into committing a fault--a fault which
I should perhaps never be able to forgive.

CHAPTER XXX

A LITTLE DOMESTIC DIFFICULTY

August 12th.

The Y---- and Sikou-San couple were divorced yesterday.  The Charles N--- and Campanule household
is getting on very badly.  They have had some trouble with those prying, grinding, insupportable
little men, dressed up in gray suits, who are called police agents, and who, by threatening
their landlord, have had them turned out of their house (under the obsequious amiability of
this people lurks a secret hatred toward Europeans)--they are therefore obliged to accept their
mother-in-law's hospitality, a very disagreeable situation.  And then Charles N--- fancies
his mousme is faithless.  It is hardly possible, however, for us to deceive ourselves: these
would-be maidens, to whom M. Kangourou has introduced us, have already had in their lives one
adventure, at least, and perhaps more; it is therefore only natural that we should have our
suspicions.

The Z----- and Touki-San couple jog on, quarrelling all the time.

My household maintains a more dignified air, though it is none the less dreary.  I had indeed
thought of a divorce, but have really no good reason for offering Chrysantheme such a gratuitous
affront; moreover, there is another more imperative reason why I should remain quiet: I, too,
have had difficulties with the civilian authorities.

The day before yesterday, M. Sucre, quite upset, Madame Prune, almost swooning, and Mademoiselle
Oyouki, bathed in tears, stormed my rooms. The Nipponese police agents had called and threatened
them with the law for letting rooms outside of the European concession to a Frenchman morganatically
married to a Japanese; and the terror of being prosecuted brought them to me, with a thousand
apologies, but with the humble request that I should leave.

The next day I therefore went off, accompanied by "the wonderfully tall friend"--who expresses
himself in Japanese better than I--to the registry office, with the full intention of making
a terrible row.

In the language of this exquisitely polite people, terms of abuse are totally wanting; when
very angry, one is obliged to be satisfied with using the 'thou', a mark of inferiority, and
the familiar conjugation, habitually used toward those of low birth.  Sitting upon the table
used for weddings, among the flurried little policemen, I opened the conversation in the following
terms:

"In order that thou shouldst leave me in peace in the suburb I am inhabiting, what bribe must
I offer thee, oh, little beings more contemptible than any mere street porter?"

Great and general dismay, silent consternation, and low bows greet my words.

They at last reply that my honorable person shall not be molested, indeed, they ask for nothing
better.  Only, in order to subscribe to the laws of the country, I ought to have come here
and given my name and that of the young person that--with whom--

"Oh! that is going too far!  I came here for that purpose, contemptible creatures, not three
weeks ago!"

Then, taking up myself the civil register, and turning over the pages rapidly, I found my signature
and beside it the little hieroglyphics drawn by Chrysantheme:

"There, idiots, look at that!"

Arrival of a very high functionary--a ridiculous little old fellow in a black coat, who from
his office had been listening to the row:

"What is the matter?  What is it?  What is this annoyance put upon the French officers?"

I state my case politely to this personage, who can not make apologies and promises enough.
The little agents prostrate themselves on all fours, sink into the earth; and we leave them,
cold and dignified, without returning their bows.

M. Sucre and Madame Prune may now make their minds easy; they will not be disturbed again.

CHAPTER XXXI

BUTTERFLIES AND BEETLES

August 23d.

The prolonged sojourn of the 'Triomphante' in the dock, and the distance of our dwelling from
the town, have been my excuse these last two or three days for not going up to Diou-djen-dji
to see Chrysantheme.

It is dreary work in these docks.  At early dawn a legion of little Japanese workmen invade
us, bringing their dinners in baskets and gourds like the workingmen in our arsenals, but with
a poor, shabby appearance, and a ferreting, hurried manner which reminds one of rats.  Silently
they slip under the keel, at the bottom of the hold, in all the holes, sawing, nailing, repairing.

The heat is intense in this spot, overshadowed by the rocks and tangled masses of foliage.

At two o'clock, in the broad sunlight, we have a new and far prettier invasion: that of the
beetles and butterflies.

There are butterflies as wonderful as those on the fans.  Some, all black, giddily dash up
against us, so light and airy that they seem merely a pair of quivering wings fastened together
without any body.

Yves, astonished, gazes at them, saying, in his boyish manner: "Oh, I saw such a big one just
now, such a big one, it quite frightened me; I thought it was a bat attacking me."

A steersman who has captured a very curious specimen carries it off carefully to press between
the leaves of his signal-book, like a flower. Another sailor, passing by, taking his small
roast to the oven in a mess- bowl, looks at him quizzically and says:

"You had much better give it to me.  I'd cook it!"

CHAPTER XXXII

STRANGE YEARNINGS

August 24th.

Nearly five days have passed since I abandoned my little house and Chrysantheme.

Since yesterday we have had a tremendous storm of rain and wind (a typhoon that has passed
or is passing over us).  We beat to quarters in the middle of the night to lower the topmasts,
strike the lower yards, and take every precaution against bad weather.  The butterflies no
longer hover around us; everything tosses and writhes overhead: on the steep slopes of the
mountain the trees shiver, the long grasses bend low as if in pain; terrible gusts rack them
with a hissing sound; branches, bamboo leaves, and earth fall like rain upon us.

In this land of pretty little trifles, this violent tempest is out of harmony; it seems as
if its efforts were exaggerated and its music too loud.

Toward evening the dark clouds roll by so rapidly that the showers are of short duration and
soon pass over.  Then I attempt a walk on the mountain above us, in the wet verdure: little
pathways lead up it, between thickets of camellias and bamboo.

Waiting till a shower is over, I take refuge in the courtyard of an old temple halfway up the
hill, buried in a wood of century plants with gigantic branches; it is reached by granite steps,
through strange gateways, as deeply furrowed as the old Celtic dolmens.  The trees have also
invaded this yard; the daylight is overcast with a greenish tint, and the drenching torrent
of rain is full of torn-up leaves and moss. Old granite monsters, of unknown shapes, are seated
in the corners, and grimace with smiling ferocity: their faces are full of indefinable mystery
that makes me shudder amid the moaning music of the wind, in the gloomy shadows of the clouds
and branches.

They could not have resembled the Japanese of our day, the men who had thus conceived these
ancient temples, who built them everywhere, and filled the country with them, even in its most
solitary nooks.

An hour later, in the twilight of that stormy day, on the same mountain, I encountered a clump
of trees somewhat similar to oaks in appearance; they, too, have been twisted by the tempest,
and the tufts of undulating grass at their feet are laid low, tossed about in every direction.
There was suddenly brought back to my mind my first impression of a strong wind in the woods
of Limoise, in the province of Saintonge, twenty-eight years ago, in a month of March of my
childhood.

That, the first wind-storm my eyes ever beheld sweeping over the landscape, blew in just the
opposite quarter of the world (and many years have rapidly passed over that memory), the spot
where the best part of my life has been spent.

I refer too often, I fancy, to my childhood; I am foolishly fond of it. But it seems to me
that then only did I truly experience sensations or impressions; the smallest trifles I saw
or heard then were full of deep and hidden meaning, recalling past images out of oblivion,
and reawakening memories of prior existences; or else they were presentiments of existences
to come, future incarnations in the land of dreams, expectations of wondrous marvels that life
and the world held in store for me--for a later period, no doubt, when I should be grown up.
Well, I have grown up, and have found nothing that answered to my indefinable expectations;
on the contrary, all has narrowed and darkened around me, my vague recollections of the past
have become blurred, the horizons before me have slowly closed in and become full of gray darkness.
Soon will my time come to return to eternal rest, and I shall leave this world without ever
having understood the mysterious cause of these mirages of my childhood; I shall bear away
with me a lingering regret for I know not what lost home that I have failed to find, of the
unknown beings ardently longed for, whom, alas, I never have embraced.

CHAPTER XXXIII

A GENEROUS HUSBAND

Displaying many affectations, M. Sucre dips the tip of his delicate paint-brush in India-ink
and traces a pair of charming storks on a pretty sheet of rice-paper, offering them to me in
the most courteous manner, as a souvenir of himself.  I have put them in my cabin on board,
and when I look at them, I fancy I can see M. Sucre tracing them with an airy touch and with
elegant facility.

The saucer in which he mixes his ink is in itself a little gem.  It is chiselled out of a piece
of jade, and represents a tiny lake with a carved border imitating rockwork.  On this border
is a little mamma toad, also in jade, advancing as if to bathe in the little lake in which
M. Sucre carefully keeps a few drops of very dark liquid.  The mamma toad has four little baby
toads, in jade, one perched on her head, the other three playing about under her.

M. Sucre has painted many a stork in the course of his lifetime, and he really excels in reproducing
groups and duets, if one may so express it, of this bird.  Few Japanese possess the art of
interpreting this subject in a manner at once so rapid and so tasteful; first he draws the
two beaks, then the four claws, then the backs, the feathers, dash, dash, dash--with a dozen
strokes of his clever brush, held in his daintily posed hand, it is done, and always perfectly
well done!

M. Kangourou relates, without seeing anything wrong in it whatever, that formerly this talent
was of great service to M. Sucre.  It appears that Madame Prune--how shall I say such a thing,
and, who could guess it now, on beholding so devout and sedate an old lady, with eyebrows so
scrupulously shaven?--however, it appears that Madame Prune used to receive a great many visits
from gentlemen--gentlemen who always came alone--which led to some gossip.  Therefore, when
Madame Prune was engaged with one visitor, if a new arrival made his appearance, the ingenious
husband, to induce him to wait patiently, and to wile away the time in the anteroom, immediately
offered to paint him some storks in a variety of attitudes.

And this is why, in Nagasaki, all the Japanese gentlemen of a certain age have in their collections
two or three of these little pictures, for which they are indebted to the delicate and original
talent of M. Sucre!

