"What next?" said the workman, looking fixedly at his son. "Suppose Napoleon II. once at liberty--"

"What next?" exclaimed the marshal. Then he added, in a suppressed voice: "Do you think, father,
that France is insensible to the humiliations she endures? Do you think that the memory of
the Emperor is extinct? No, no; it is, above all, in the days of our country's degredation,
that she whispers that sacred name. How would it be, then, were that name to rise glorious
on the frontier, reviving in his son? Do you not think that the heart of all France would beat
for him?"

"This implies a conspiracy--against the present government--with Napoleon II. for a watchword,"
said the workman. "This is very serious."

"I told you, father, that I was very unhappy; judge if it be not so," cried the marshal. "Not
only I ask myself, if I ought to abandon my children and you, to run the risk of so daring
an enterprise, but I ask myself if I am not bound to the present government, which, in acknowledging
my rank and title, if it bestowed no favor, at least did me an act of justice. How shall I
decide?--abandon all that I love, or remain insensible to the tortures of Emperor--of that
Emperor to the son of the whom I owe everything--to whom I have sworn fidelity, both to himself
and child? Shall I lose this only opportunity, perhaps, of saving him, or shall I conspire
in his favor? Tell me, if I exaggerate what I owe to the memory of the Emperor? Decide for
me, father! During a whole sleepless night, I strove to discover, in the midst of this chaos,
the line prescribed by honor; but I only wandered from indecision to indecision. You alone,
father--you alone, I repeat, can direct me."

After remaining for some moments in deep thought, the old man was about to answer, when some
person, running across the little garden, opened the door hastily, and entered the room in
which were the marshal and his father. It was Olivier, the young workman, who had been able
to effect his escape from the village in which the Wolves had assembled.

"M. Simon! M. Simon!" cried he, pale, and panting for breath. "They are here--close at hand.
They have come to attack the factory."

"Who?" cried the old man, rising hastily.

"The Wolves, quarrymen, and stone-cutters, joined on the road by a crowd of people from the
neighborhood, and vagabonds from town. Do you not hear them? They are shouting, 'Death to the
Devourers!'"

The clamor was indeed approaching, and grew more and more distinct.

"It is the same noise that I heard just now," said the marshal, rising in his turn.

"There are more than two hundred of them, M. Simon," said Olivier; "they are armed with clubs
and stones, and unfortunately the greater part of our workmen are in Paris. We are not above
forty here in all; the women and children are already flying to their chambers, screaming for
terror. Do you not hear them?"

The ceiling shook beneath the tread of many hasty feet.

"Will this attack be a serious one?" said the marshal to his father, who appeared more and
more dejected.

"Very serious," said the old man; "there is nothing more fierce than these combats between
different unions; and everything has been done lately to excite the people of the neighborhood
against the factory."

"If you are so inferior in number," said the marshal, "you must begin by barricading all the
doors--and then--"

He was unable to conclude. A burst of ferocious cries shook the windows of the room, and seemed
so near and loud, that the marshal, his father, and the young workman, rushed out into the
little garden, which was bounded on one side by a wall that separated it from the fields. Suddenly
whilst the shouts redoubled in violence, a shower of large stones, intended to break the windows
of the house, smashed some of the panes on the first story, struck against the wall, and fell
into the garden, all around the marshal and his father. By a fatal chance, one of these large
stones struck the old man on the head. He staggered, bent forward, and fell bleeding into the
arms of Marshal Simon, just as arose from without, with increased fury, the savage cries of,
"Death to the Devourers!"

CHAPTER IV.

THE WOLVES AND THE DEVOURERS.

It was a frightful thing to view the approach of the lawless crowd, whose first act of hostility
had been so fatal to Marshal Simon's father. One wing of the Common Dwelling-house, which joined
the garden-wall on that side, was next to the fields. It was there that the Wolves began their
attack. The precipitation of their march, the halt they had made at two public-houses on the
road, their ardent impatience for the approaching struggle, had inflamed these men to a high
pitch of savage excitement. Having discharged their first shower of stones, most of the assailants
stooped down to look for more ammunition. Some of them, to do so with greater ease, held their
bludgeons between their teeth; others had placed them against the wall; here and there, groups
had formed tumultuously round the principal leaders of the band; the most neatly dressed of
these men wore frocks, with caps, whilst others were almost in rags, for, as we have already
said, many of the hangers-on at the barriers, and people without any profession, had joined
the troop of the Wolves, whether welcome or not. Some hideous women, with tattered garments,
who always seem to follow in the track of such people, accompanied them on this occasion, and,
by their cries and fury, inflamed still more the general excitement. One of them, tall, robust,
with purple complexion, blood shot eyes, and toothless jaws, had a handkerchief over her head,
from beneath which escaped her yellow, frowsy hair. Over her ragged gown, she wore an old plaid
shawl, crossed over her bosom, and tied behind her back. This hag seemed possessed with a demon.
She had tucked up her half-torn sleeves; in one hand she brandished a stick, in the other she
grasped a huge stone; her companions called her Ciboule (scullion).

This horrible hag exclaimed, in a hoarse voice: "I'll bite the women of the factory; I'll make
them bleed."

The ferocious words were received with applause by her companions, and with savage cries of
"Ciboule forever!" which excited her to frenzy.

Amongst the other leaders, was a small, dry pale man, with the face of a ferret, and a black
beard all round the chin; he wore a scarlet Greek cap, and beneath his long blouse, perfectly
new, appeared a pair of neat cloth trousers, strapped over thin boots. This man was evidently
of a different condition of life from that of the other persons in the troop; it was he, in
particular, who ascribed the most irritating and insulting language to the workmen of the factory,
with regard to the inhabitants of the neighborhood. He howled a great deal, but he carried
neither stick nor stone. A full-faced, fresh-colored man, with a formidable bass voice, like
a chorister's, asked him: "Will you not have a shot at those impious dogs, who might bring
down the Cholera on the country, as the curate told us?"

"I will have a better shot than you," said the little man, with a singular, sinister smile.

"And with what, I'd like to see?"

"Probably, with this," said the little man, stooping to pick up a large stone; but, as he bent,
a well-filled though light bag, which he appeared to carry under his blouse, fell to the ground.

"Look, you are losing both bag and baggage," said the other; "it does not seem very heavy."

"They are samples of wool," answered the man with the ferret's face, as he hastily picked up
the bag, and replaced it under his blouse; then he added: "Attention! the big blaster is going
to speak."

And, in fact, he who exercised the most complete ascendency over this irritated crowd was the
terrible quarryman. His gigantic form towered so much above the multitude, that his great head,
bound in its ragged handkerchief, and his Herculean shoulders, covered with a fallow goat skin,
were always visible above the level of that dark and swarming crowd, only relieved here and
there by a few women's caps, like so many white points. Seeing to what a degree of exasperation
the minds of the crowd had reached, the small number of honest, but misguided workmen, who
had allowed themselves to be drawn into this dangerous enterprise, under the pretext of a quarrel
between rival unions, now fearing for the consequences of the struggle, tried, but too late,
to abandon the main body. Pressed close, and as it were, girt in with the more hostile groups,
dreading to pass for cowards, or to expose themselves to the bad treatment of the majority,
they were forced to wait for a more favorable moment to effect their escape. To the savage
cheers, which had accompanied the first discharge of stones, succeeded a deep silence commanded
by the stentorian voice of the quarryman.

"The Wolves have howled," he exclaimed; "let us wait and see how the Devourers will answer,
and when they will begin the fight."

"We must draw them out of their factory, and fight them on neutral ground," said the little
man with the ferret's face, who appeared to be the thieves' advocate; "otherwise there would
be trespass."

"What do we care about trespass?" cried the horrible hag, Ciboule; "in or out, I will tear
the chits of the factory."

"Yes, yes," cried other hideous creatures, as ragged as Ciboule herself; "we must not leave
all to the men."

"We must have our fun, too!"

"The women of the factory say that all the women of the neighborhood are drunken drabs," cried
the little man with the ferret's face.

"Good! we'll pay them for it."

"The women shall have their share."

"That's our business."

"They like to sing in their Common House," cried Ciboule; "we will make them sing the wrong
side of their mouths, in the key of 'Oh, dear me!'"

This pleasantry was received with shouts, hootings, and furious stamping of feet, to which
the stentorian voice of the quarryman put a term by roaring: "Silence!"

"Silence! silence!" repeated the crowd. "Hear the blaster!"

"If the Devourers are cowards enough not to dare to show themselves, after a second volley
of stones, there is a door down there which we can break open, and we will soon hunt them from
their holes."

"It would be better to draw them out, so that none might remain in the factory," said the little
old man with the ferret's face, who appeared to have some secret motive.

"A man fights where he can," cried the quarryman, in a voice of thunder; "all, right, if we
can but once catch hold. We could fight on a sloping roof, or on the top of a wall--couldn't
we, my Wolves?"

"Yes, yes!" cried the crowd, still more excited by those savage words; "if they don't come
out, we will break in."

"We will see their fine palace!"

"The pagans haven't even a chapel," said the bass voice. "The curate has damned them all!"

"Why should they have a palace, and we nothing but dog-kennels?"

"Hardy's workmen say that kennels are good enough for such as you." said the little man with
the ferret's face.

"Yes, yes! they said so."

"We'll break all their traps."

"We'll pull down their bazaar."

"We'll throw the house out of the windows."

"When we have made the mealy-mouthed chits sing," cried Ciboule, "we will make them dance to
the clatter of stones on their heads."

"Come, my Wolves! attention!" cried the quarryman, still in the same stentorian voice; "one
more volley, and if the Devourers do not come out, down with the door!"

This proposition was received with cheers of savage ardor, and the quarryman, whose voice rose
above the tumult, cried with all the strength of his herculean lungs: "Attention, my Wolves.
Make ready! all together. Now, are you ready?"

"Yes, yes--all ready!"

"Then, present!--fire!" And, for the second time, a shower of enormous stones poured upon that
side of the Common Dwelling-house which was turned towards the fields. A part of these projectiles
broke such of the windows as had been spared by the first volley. To the sharp smashing and
cracking of glass were joined the ferocious cries uttered in chorus by this formidable mob,
drunk with its own excesses: "Death to the Devourers!"

Soon these outcries became perfectly frantic, when, through the broken windows, the assailants
perceived women running in terror, some with children in their arms, and others raising their
hands to heaven, calling aloud for help; whilst a few, bolder than the rest, leaned out of
the windows, and tried to fasten the outside blinds.

"There come the ants out of their holes!" cried Ciboule, stooping to pick up a stone. "We must
have a fling at them for luck!" The stone, hurled by the steady, masculine hand of the virago,
went straight to its mark, and struck an unfortunate woman who was trying to close one of the
shutters.

"Hit in the white!" cried the hideous creature.

"Well done, Ciboule!--you've rapped her coker-nut!" cried a voice.

"Ciboule forever!"

"Come out, you Devourers, if you dare!"

"They have said a hundred times, that the neighbors were too cowardly even to come and look
at their house," squealed the little man with the ferret's face.

"And now they show the white feather!"

"If they will not come out," cried the quarryman, in voice of thunder, "let us smoke them out!"

"Yes, yes!"

"Let's break open the door!"

"We are sure to find them!"

"Come on! come on!"

The crowd, with the quarryman at their head, and Ciboule not far from him, brandishing a stick,
advanced tumultously towards one of the great doors. The ground shook beneath the rapid tread
of the mob, which had now ceased shouting; but the confused, and, as it were, subterraneous
noise, sounded even more ominous than those savage outcries. The Wolves soon arrived opposite
the massive oaken door. At the moment the blaster raised a sledgehammer, the door opened suddenly.
Some of the most determined of the assailants were about to rush in at this entrance; but the
quarryman stepped back, extending his arm as if to moderate their ardor and impose silence.
Then his followers gathered round him.

The half-open door discovered a party of workmen, unfortunately by no means numerous, but with
countenances full of resolution. They had armed themselves hastily with forks, iron bars, and
clubs. Agricola, who was their leader, held in his hand a heavy sledge-hammer. The young workman
was very pale; but the fire of his eye, his menacing look, and the intrepid assurance of his
bearing, showed that his father's blood boiled in his veins, and that in such a struggle he
might become fear-inspiring. Yet he succeeded in restraining himself, and challenged the quarryman,
in a firm voice: "What do you want?"

"A fight!" thundered the blaster.

"Yes, yes! a fight!" repeated the crowd.

"Silence, my Wolves!" cried the quarryman, as he turned round, and stretched forth his large
hand towards the multitude. Then addressing Agricola, he said: "The Wolves have come to ask
for a fight."

"With whom?"

"With the Devourers."

"There are no Devourers here," replied Agricola; "we are only peaceable workmen. So begone."

"Well! here are the Wolves, that will eat your quiet workmen."

"The Wolves will eat no one here," said Agricola, looking full at the quarryman, who approached
him with a threatening air; "they can only frighten little children."

"Oh! you think so," said the quarryman, with a savage sneer. Then raising his weapon, he shook
it in Agricola's face, exclaiming: "Is that any laughing matter?

"Is that?" answered Agricola, with a rapid movement, parrying the stone sledge with his own hammer.

"Iron against iron--hammer against hammer--that suits me," said the quarryman.

"It does not matter what suits you," answered Agricola, hardly able to restrain himself. "You
have broken our windows, frightened our women, and wounded--perhaps killed--the oldest workman
in the factory, who at this moment lies bleeding in the arms of his son." Here Agricola's voice
trembled in spite of himself. "It is, I think, enough."

"No; the Wolves are hungry for more," answered the blaster; "you must come out (cowards that
you are!), and fight us on the plain."

"Yes! yes! battle!--let them come out!" cried the crowd, howling, hissing, waving their sticks
and pushing further into the small space which separated them from the door.

"We will have no battle," answered Agricola: "we will not leave our home; but if you have the
misfortune to pass this," said Agricola, throwing his cap upon the threshold, and setting his
foot on it with an intrepid air, "if you pass this, you attack us in our own house, and you
will be answerable for all that may happen."

"There or elsewhere we will have the fight! the Wolves must eat the Devourers. Now for the
attack!" cried the fierce quarryman, raising his hammer to strike Agricola.

But the latter, throwing himself on one side by a sudden leap, avoided the blow, and struck
with his hammer full at the chest of the quarryman, who staggered for a moment, but instantly
recovering his legs, rushed furiously on Agricola, crying: "Follow me, Wolves!"

CHAPTER V.

THE RETURN.

As soon as the combat had begun between Agricola and the blaster, the general fight became
terrible, ardent, implacable. A flood of assailants, following the quarryman's steps, rushed
into the house with irresistible fury; others, unable to force their way through this dreadful
crowd, where the more impetuous squeezed, stifled, and crushed these who were less so, went
round in another direction, broke through some lattice work, and thus placed the people of
the factory, as it were, between two fires. Some resisted courageously; others, seeing Ciboule,
followed by some of her horrible companions, and by several of the most ill-looking ruffians,
hastily enter that part of the Common-Dwelling house in which the women had taken refuge, hurried
in pursuit of this band; but some of the hag's companions, having faced about, and vigorously
defended the entrance of the staircase against the workmen, Ciboule, with three or four like
herself, and about the same number of no less ignoble men, rushed through the rooms, with the
intention of robbing or destroying all that came in their way. A door, which at first resisted
their efforts, was soon broken through; Ciboule rushed into the apartment with a stick in her
hand, her hair dishevelled, furious, and, as it were, maddened with the noise and tumult. A
beautiful young girl (it was Angela), who appeared anxious to defend the entrance to a second
chamber, threw herself on her knees, pale and supplicating, and raising her clasped hands,
exclaimed: "Do not hurt my mother!"

"I'll serve you out first, and your mother afterwards," replied the horrible woman, throwing
herself on the poor girl, and endeavoring to tear her face with her nails, whilst the rest
of the ruffianly band broke the glass and the clock with their sticks, and possessed themselves
of some articles of wearing apparel.

Angela, struggling with Ciboule, uttered loud cries of distress, and still attempted to guard
the room in which her mother had taken refuge; whilst the latter, leaning from the window,
called Agricola to their assistance. The smith was now engaged with the huge blaster. In a
close struggle, their hammers had become useless, and with bloodshot eyes and clinched teeth,
chest to chest, and limbs twined together like two serpents, they made the most violent efforts
to overthrow each other. Agricola, bent forward, held under his right arm the left leg of the
quarryman, which he had seized in parrying a violent kick; but such was the Herculean strength
of the leader of the Wolves, that he remained firm as a tower, though resting only on one leg.
With the hand that was still free (for the other was gripped by Agricola as in a vise), he
endeavored with violent blows to break the jaws of the smith, who, leaning his head forward,
pressed his forehead hard against the breast of his adversary.

"The Wolf will break the Devourer's teeth, and he shall devour no more," said the quarryman.

"You are no true Wolf," answered the smith, redoubling his efforts; "the true Wolves are honest
fellows, and do not come ten against one."

"True or false, I will break your teeth."

"And I your paw," said the smith, giving so violent a wrench to the leg of the quarryman, that
the latter uttered a cry of acute pain, and, with the rage of a wild beast, butting suddenly
forward with his head, succeeded in biting Agricola in the side of the neck.

The pang of this bite forced Agricola to make a movement, which enabled the quarryman to disengage
his leg. Then, with a superhuman effort, he threw himself with his whole weight on Agricola,
and brought him to the ground, falling himself upon him.

At this juncture, Angela's mother, leaning from one of the windows of the Common Dwelling-house,
exclaimed in a heart-rending voice: "Help, Agricola!--they are killing my child!"

"Let me go--and on, my honor--I will fight you tomorrow, or when you will," said Agricola,
panting for breath.

"No warmed-up food for me; I eat all hot," answered the quarryman, seizing the smith by the
throat, whilst he tried to place one of his knees upon his chest.

"Help!--they are killing my child!" cried Angela's mother, in a voice of despair.

"Mercy! I ask mercy! Let me go!"' said Agricola, making the most violent efforts to escape.

"I am too hungry," answered the quarryman.

Exasperated by the terror which Angela's danger occasioned him, Agricola redoubled his efforts,
when the quarryman suddenly felt his thigh seized by the sharp teeth of a dog, and at the same
instant received from a vigorous hand three or four heavy blows with a stick upon his head.
He relaxed his grasp, and fell stunned upon his hand and knee, whilst he mechanically raised
his other arm to parry the blows, which ceased as soon as Agricola was delivered.

"Father, you have saved me!" cried the smith, springing up. "If only I am in time to rescue
Angela!"

"Run!--never mind me!" answered Dagobert; and Agricola rushed into the house.

Dogabert, accompanied by Spoil-sport, had come, as we have already said, to bring Marshal Simon's
daughters to their grandfather. Arriving in the midst of the tumult, the soldier had collected
a few workmen to defend the entrance of the chamber, to which the marshal's father had been
carried in a dying state. It was from this post that the soldier had seen Agricola's danger.
Soon after, the rush of the conflict separated Dagobert from the quarryman, who remained for
some moments insensible. Arrived in two bounds at the Common Dwelling-house, Agricola succeeded
in forcing his way through the men who defended the staircase, and rushed into the corridor
that led to Angela's chamber. At the moment he reached it, the unfortunate girl was mechanically
guarding her face with both hands against Ciboule, who, furious as the hyena over its prey,
was trying to scratch and disfigure her.

To spring upon the horrible hag, seize her by her yellow hair with irresistible hand, drag
her backwards, and then with one cuff, stretch her full length upon the ground, was for Agricola
an achievement as rapid as thought. Furious with rage, Ciboule rose again almost instantly;
but at this moment, several workmen, who had followed close upon Agricola, were able to attack
with advantage, and whilst the smith lifted the fainting form of Angela, and carried her into
the next room, Ciboule and her band were driven from that part of the house.

After the first fire of the assault, the small number of real Wolves, who, as Agricola said,
were in the main honest fellows, but had the weakness to let themselves be drawn into this
enterprise, under the pretext of a quarrel between rival unions, seeing the excesses committed
by the rabble who accompanied them, turned suddenly round, and ranged themselves on the side
of the Devourers.

"There are no longer here either Wolves or Devourers," said one of the most determined Wolves
to Olivier, with whom he had been fighting roughly and fairly; "there are none here but honest
workmen, who must unite to drive out a set of scoundrels, that have come only to break and
pillage."

"Yes," added another; "it was against our will that they began by breaking your windows."

"The big blaster did it all," said another; "the true Wolves wash their hands of him. We shall
soon settle his account."

"We may fight every day--but we ought to esteem each other."[35]

This defection of a portion of the assailants (unfortunately but a small portion) gave new
spirit to the workmen of the factory, and all together, Wolves and Devourers, though very inferior
in number, opposed themselves to the band of vagabonds, who were proceeding to new excesses.
Some of these wretches, still further excited by the little man with the ferret's face, a secret
emissary of Baron Tripeaud, now rushed in a mass towards the workshops of M. Hardy. Then began
a lamentable devastation. These people, seized with the mania of destruction, broke without
remorse machines of the greatest value, and most delicate construction; half manufactured articles
were pitilessly destroyed; a savage emulation seemed to inspire these barbarians, and those
workshops, so lately the model of order and well-regulated economy, were soon nothing but a
wreck; the courts were strewed with fragments of all kinds of wares, which were thrown from
the windows with ferocious outcries, or savage bursts of laughter. Then, still thanks to the
incitements of the little man with the ferret's face, the books of M. Hardy, archives of commercial
industry, so indispensable to the trader, were scattered to the wind, torn, trampled under
foot, in a sort of infernal dance, composed of all that was most impure in this assembly of
low, filthy, and ragged men and women, who held each other by the hand, and whirled round and
round with horrible clamor. Strange and painful contrasts! At the height of the stunning noise
of these horrid deeds of tumult and devastation, a scene of imposing and mournful calm was
taking place in the chamber of Marshal Simon's father, the door of which was guarded by a few
devoted men. The old workman was stretched on his bed, with a bandage across his blood stained
white hair. His countenance was livid, his breathing oppressed, his look fixed and glazed.

Marshal Simon, standing at the head of the bed, bending over his father, watched in despairing
anguish the least sign of consciousness on the part of the dying man, near whom was a physician,
with his finger on the failing pulse. Rose and Blanche, brought hither by Dagobert, were kneeling
beside the bed, their hands clasped, and their eyes bathed in tears; a little further, half
hidden in the shadows of the room, for the hours had passed quickly, and the night was at hand,
stood Dagobert himself, with his arms crossed upon his breast, and his features painfully contracted.
A profound and solemn silence reigned in this chamber, only interrupted by the broken sobs
of Rose and Blanche, or by Father Simon's hard breathing. The eyes of the marshal were dry,
gloomy, and full of fire. He only withdrew them from his father's face, to interrogate the
physician by a look. There are strange coincidences in life. That physician was Dr. Baleinier.
The asylum of the doctor being close to the barrier that was nearest to the factory, and his
fame being widely spread in the neighborhood, they had run to fetch him on the first call for
medical assistance.

Suddenly, Dr. Baleinier made a movement; the marshal, who had not taken his eyes off him, exclaimed:
"Is there any hope?"

"At least, my lord duke, the pulse revives a little."

"He is saved!" said the marshal.

"Do not cherish false hopes, my lord duke," answered the doctor, gravely: "the pulse revives,
owing to the powerful applications to the feet, but I know not what will be the issue of the
crisis."

"Father! father! do you hear me?" cried the marshal, seeing the old man slightly move his head,
and feebly raise his eyelids. He soon opened his eyes, and this time their intelligence had
returned.

"Father! you live--you know me!" cried the marshal, giddy with joy and hope.

"Pierre! are you there?" said the old man, in a weak voice. "Your hand--give--it--" and he
made a feeble movement.

"Here, father!" cried the marshal, as he pressed the hands of the old man in his own.

Then, yielding to an impulse of delight, he bent over his father, covered his hands, face,
and hair with kisses, and repeated: "He lives! kind heaven, he lives! he is saved!"

At this instant, the noise of the struggle which had recommenced between the rabble, the Wolves,
and the Devourers, reached the ears of the dying man.

"That noise! that noise!" said he: "they are fighting."

"It is growing less, I think," said the marshal, in order not to agitate his father.

"Pierre," said the old man, in a weak and broken voice, "I have not long to live."

"Father--"

"Let me speak, child; if I can but tell you all."

"Sir," said Baleinier piously to the old workman, "heaven may perhaps work a miracle in your
favor; show yourself grateful, and allow a priest--"

"A priest! Thank you, sir--I have my son," said the old man; "in his arms, I will render up
my soul--which has always been true and honest."

"You die?" exclaimed the marshal; "no! no!"

"Pierre," said the old man, in a voice which, firm at first, gradually grew fainter, "just
now--you ask my advice in a very serious matter. I think, that the wish to tell you of your
duty--has recalled me--for a moment--to life--for I should die miserable--if I thought you
in a road unworthy of yourself and me. Listen to me, my son--my noble son--at this last hour,
a father cannot deceive himself. You have a great duty to perform---under pain--of not acting
like a man of honor--under pain of neglecting my last will. You ought, without hesitation--"

Here the voice failed the old man. When he had pronounced the last sentence, he became quite
unintelligible. The only words that Marshal Simon could distinguish, were these: "Napoleon
II.--oath--dishonor--my son!"

Then the old workman again moved his lips mechanically--and all was over. At the moment he
expired, the night was quite come, and terrible shouts were heard from without, of "Fire! Fire!"
The conflagration had broken out in one of the workshops, filled with inflammable stuff, into
which had glided the little man with the ferret's face. At the same time, the roll of drums
was heard in the distance, announcing the arrival of a detachment of troops from town.

During an hour, in spite of every effort, the fire had been spreading through the factory.
The night is clear, cold, starlight; the wind blows keenly from the north, with a moaning sound.
A man, walking across the fields, where the rising ground conceals the fire from him, advances
with slow and unsteady steps. It is M. Hardy. He had chosen to return home on foot, across
the country, hoping that a walk would calm the fever in his blood--an icy fever, more like
the chill of death. He had not been deceived. His adored mistress--the noble woman, with whom
he might have found refuge from the consequences of the fearful deception which had just been
revealed to him--had quitted France. He could have no doubt of it. Margaret was gone to America.
Her mother had exacted from her, in expiation of her fault, that she should not even write
to him one word of farewell--to him, for whom she had sacrificed her duty as a wife. Margaret
had obeyed.

Besides, she had often said to him: "Between my mother and you, I should not hesitate."

She had not hesitated. There was therefore no hope, not the slightest; even if an ocean had
not separated him from Margaret, he knew enough of her blind submission to her mother, to be
certain that all relations between them were broken off forever. It is well. He will no longer
reckon upon this heart--his last refuge. The two roots of his life have been torn up and broken,
with the same blow, the same day, almost at the same moment. What then remains for thee, poor
sensitive plant, as thy tender mother used to call thee? What remains to console thee for the
loss of this last love--this last friendship, so infamously crushed? Oh! there remains for
thee that one corner of the earth, created after the image of thy mind that little colony,
so peaceful and flourishing, where, thanks to thee, labor brings with it joy and recompense.
These worthy artisans, whom thou hast made happy, good, and grateful, will not fail thee. That
also is a great and holy affection; let it be thy shelter in the midst of this frightful wreck
of all thy most sacred convictions! The calm of that cheerful and pleasant retreat, the sight
of the unequalled happiness of thy dependents, will soothe thy poor, suffering soul, which
now seems to live only for suffering. Come! you will soon reach the top of the hill, from which
you can see afar, in the plain below, that paradise of workmen, of which you are the presiding
divinity.

M. Hardy had reached the summit of the hill. At that moment the conflagration, repressed for
a short time, burst forth with redoubled fury from the Common Dwelling-house, which it had
now reached. A bright streak, at first white, then red, then copper-colored, illuminated the
distant horizon. M. Hardy looked at it with a sort of incredulous, almost idiotic stupor. Suddenly,
an immense column of flame shot up in the thick of a cloud of smoke, accompanied by a shower
of sparks, and streamed towards the sky, casting a bright reflection over all the country,
even to M. Hardy's feet. The violence of the north wind, driving the flames in waves before
it, soon brought to the ears of M. Hardy the hurried clanging of the alarm-bell of the burning
factory.

[35] We wish it to be understood, that the necessities of our story alone have made the Wolves
the assailants. While endeavoring to paint the evils arising the abuse of the spirit of association,
we do not wish to ascribe a character of savage hostility to one sect rather than to the other
to the Wolves more than to the Devourers. The Wolves, a club of united stone-cutters, are generally
industrious, intelligent workmen, whose situation is the more worthy of interest, as not only
their labors, conducted with mathematical precision, are of the rudest and most wearisome kind,
but they are likewise out of work during three or four months of the year, their profession
being, unfortunately, one of those which winter condemns to a forced cessation. A number of
Wolves, in order to perfect themselves in their trade, attend every evening a course of linear
geometry, applied to the cutting of stone, analogous to that given by M. Agricole Perdignier,
for the benefit of carpenters. Several working stone-cutters sent an architectural model in
plaster to the last exhibition.

CHAPTER VI.

THE GO-BETWEEN.

