+993+. Some resemblance to the Chinese system appears in the religion of Peru, so far as this
can be understood from the accounts that have come down to us.[1815] The supreme position given
to the Sun in Peru and to the Inca as child of the Sun is parallel to the supremacy of Heaven
in China and the headship of the emperor as the son of Heaven. The Peruvian cult appears not
to have reached the distinctness of the Chinese. There were, in fact, in Peru a considerable
number of tolerably well-formed divinities along with a vast crowd of spirits. Yet it appears
that the sun was regarded, at least by the Inca and his circle, as supreme ruler of the world.
The Sun, as god, has no proper name in Peru, as in China Heaven, as god, has no proper name.
In both countries, it would seem, the imagination of the people was overpowered by the spectacle
of the majesty of a great natural object. The two religions differ in their ritual development:
while the Inca, like the Chinese emperor, was the religious head of the nation, the Peruvians
created an elaborate system of worship, with temples and ministrants, which is wanting in China.[1816]
The remarkable character of the Peruvian system makes it all the more regrettable that the
data available do not enable us to trace its growth from the simplest beginnings.

+994+. Still another line of theistic development is furnished by the Hebrew system. The Hebrews
are remarkable among ancient peoples as having had, so far as our information goes, only one
national god. This god they brought with them into Canaan from the wilderness over which they
appear to have roamed with their flocks for a period and under conditions not definitely known
to us. Arrived in Canaan, the masses were attracted by the local Canaanite deities (whose worship
represented a higher civilization than that of the nomadic Hebrews), and later, in the seventh
century B.C., a great part of the people of the little kingdom of Judah adopted the Assyrian
astral cult; but a group of Israelites had always remained faithful to the national deity Yahweh
(Jehovah) and vigorously opposed all foreign worship. It was naturally the more thoughtful
and ethically better-developed part of the community that took this uncompromising position,
and their spokesmen, the writing prophets whose discourses are preserved in the Old Testament,
became preachers of morality as well as champions of the sole worship of Yahweh. It does not
appear that they denied the existence of other gods, but they regarded their own god as superior
to all others in power, standing in a peculiarly close relation to his people and bound to
them by peculiarly intimate ties.

+995+. This attachment to one deity proved to be the dominant sentiment of the nation. As time
went on and the people were sifted by the Assyrian and Babylonian deportations, the higher
moral feeling of the best men attached itself more and more definitely to the national god.
Thus was established a monolatry which was practically monotheism, though a theory of absolute
monotheism was never formulated by the pre-Christian Jews. It must be added, as is remarked
above, that, from the third or second century B.C. on, the somewhat undefined range of activity
attributed to Satan produced a sort of dualism, yet without impairing the practically unitary
conception of the divine government of the world.[1817] The course of their national fortunes
and the remarkable power of self-contained persistence of the Jews brought about a segregation
of the people and, finally, their organization into a community governed by a law held to be
divinely revealed. This capacity of social religious organization was the distinctive characteristic
of the Jewish people and, supported by their unitary theistic system and a high moral code,
gave the example of popular monotheism which, through the medium of Christianity, finally imposed
itself upon the Roman world.

+996+. In the ancient world the most thorough investigation of the theistic problem was made
by the Greeks, whose leading thinkers, like the Hebrews, moved steadily toward a unitary conception
of the divine power, but, unlike the Hebrews, did not succeed in impressing their views on
the people at large. What the theistic conception in the pre-Homeric times was we are unable
to say definitely, but presumably in every separate community there was a local deity who had
practically the direction of affairs. In process of time, through conditions not known to us,
Zeus came to be recognized throughout the Hellenic world as the principal deity. In the Homeric
poems and in Hesiod we find a political or governmental organization of the gods which followed
the lines of the social organization of the times. As Agamemnon is the head chief over a group
of local chiefs, so Zeus, though not absolutely supreme, is a divine king, the head over a
considerable number of deities who have their own preferences and plans, and in ordinary matters
go their own way and are not interfered with so long as they mind their own business; but at
critical points Zeus, like Agamemnon, intervenes, and then no god disputes his decisions.

+997+. This conception of the divine government appears, therefore, to rest on the Greek demand
for political organization; the world was thought of as divided into various departments which
had to be brought into a unity by the ascription of a quasi-supreme authority to some one personage.
Necessarily, however, larger intellectual and ethical ideas were incorporated in this political
view. Though the popular anthropomorphic conceptions of the deities appear throughout the Homeric
poems (the gods being sometimes morally low as well as limited in knowledge and power), yet
on the other hand they are said to know everything. To Zeus in particular lofty qualities are
ascribed; he is the father of men and their savior and the patron of justice. How it came about
that these two sorts of conceptions of a supreme deity are mingled in the poems is a question
that need not be discussed here; a similar mingling of contradictory ideas is found in the
Old Testament, in which the unmoral god of the people stands alongside of the highly developed
ethical Yahweh of the great prophets.

+998+. In Homer and Hesiod, however, the conception of headship is complicated by the introduction
of the idea of fate. In the Iliad Zeus is sometimes ignorant of the future and has to employ
the scales of destiny, and in Hesiod appear the three Fates who control the lives of men independently
of the gods. The conception of a controlling fate may be regarded as an effort to reach an
absolutely unitary view of the world. Above all the divine powers that regulate affairs, after
the manner of the government by a king with his attendant chieftains and officers, there is
a sense of a dim and undefined power of unknown origin, mysterious, absolute, universal. The
question whether this conception was a reflection of a sense of the controlling power resident
in the universe itself, or merely an endeavor to rise above the variations of anthropomorphic
deities, is important from the point of view of the genesis of ideas, but its decision will
not affect the fact just stated.[1818] Obviously in the Homeric world there appears this general
conviction that men and gods are bound together in unity and that some force or power controls
all things.[1819]

+999+. This sense of the governmental unity is further developed by the later great poets who
infused into it higher and more definite moral elements. The polytheistic view continues; to
the thinkers of the time there was no more difficulty in conceiving of a single headship along
with many deities of particular functions than was felt by Hebrew prophets who recognized the
existence of foreign deities, with Yahweh as a superior god, or by the modern Christian world
with its apparatus of angels, saints, and demons alongside of the supreme God. For Pindar Zeus
is lord of all things and is far removed from the moral impurities of the popular conception.
Æschylus represents him as supreme and in general as just, though not wholly free from human
weaknesses. A real unity of the world is set forth by Sophocles: there is a divinely ordered
control by immutable law, and the will of Zeus is unquestioned. The unitary conception is found
also in Euripides notwithstanding his skeptical attitude toward the current mythology. The
sense of symmetry potent in the poets forced them to this unitary conception of government,
and the natural progress of ethical feeling led them to ascribe the highest ethical qualities
to the deities.

+1000+. Similar motives appear in the speculations of the Greek philosophers: Greek philosophy
in seeking to discover the essential nature of the world moved definitely toward the conception
of its unity--so, for example, as early as the sixth century, in Xenophanes and Parmenides.
The conception of a supreme spiritual ruler of the world appears in Heraclitus and Anaxagoras
(fifth century). To these and other Greek thinkers the unity of the world and the dominance
of mind or spirit appeared to be necessary assumptions. The most definite expression of these
conceptions is found in Plato and Aristotle. According to Plato (in the Timæus) God, the eternal
Father, created the world (for nothing can be created without a cause), brought order out of
disorder and made the universe to be most fair and good, so that it became a rational living
soul, the one only-begotten universe, created the gods and the sons of the gods, and framed
the soul to be the ruler of the body. Aristotle, in simpler phrase, represents the ground of
the world as self-sufficient Mind, an eternal Power (δυναμις), from which all action or actuality
(ενεργεια) proceeds.[1820]

+1001+. There are certain apparent limitations, it is true, to this conception of unity. Both
Plato and Aristotle recognize the existence of a host of subordinate deities (created but immortal)
to whom is assigned a share, by direction of the supreme God, in the creation of things; yet
essentially these deities are nothing more than agents or intermediaries of the divine activity,
and may be compared to the natural laws and agents of modern theism and, more exactly, to the
Hebrew angels through whom, according to the Old Testament, God governed the world. Plato has
also a somewhat vague notion of a something in the nature of the material of the world that
limits or constrains the divine creative power--a "necessity" that forces the deity to do not
the absolutely best but the best possible. Perhaps this is a philosophical formulation of the
old "fate," perhaps Plato is merely trying to account for certain supposed inconcinnities and
inadequacies in the world. He is not quite consistent with himself, since he represents the
creation of the universe as resulting from the fact that necessity yielded to the persuasion
of mind, which thus became supreme.[1821] In spite of this vagueness his view is unitary, and
the unitary conception is continued by the Stoics, its best Stoic expression being found in
the famous hymn of Cleanthes to Zeus: "Nothing occurs on earth apart from thee" and "We are
thy offspring."[1822]

+1002+. In the last centuries before the beginning of our era the Jews, partly under Persian
and Greek influence, clarified their theistic view, attaining a practically pure monotheism,
only retaining their apparatus of angels and demons. This theistic scheme passed over in complete
form to early Christianity, in which, however, greater prominence was given to the chief demon,
the Satan; his larger rôle arose from the fact that he was brought into sharp antagonism with
the Christ, the head of the kingdom of God. When Christianity was adopted by the Græco-Roman
world, the doctrine of the Trinity was worked out and formulated in accordance with Greek and
Roman philosophic thought, but was held not to impair the monotheistic view since the three
Persons were regarded as being in substance one. Islam adopted the Jewish form of monotheism,
with its Satan and angels, retaining also the old Arabian apparatus of demonic beings (the jinn).

+1003+. A certain tendency to a practically unitary view is discernible in the cults of Isis
and Mithra, which were widely diffused in the Roman Empire.[1823] In both these cults the main
interest of the worshipers was centered in a single deity, though other deities were recognized.
The unifying impulse was devotional, not philosophic.

So far as a unitary conception of the divine government of the world existed it must be referred
to the spirit of the age which had outgrown the old crude polytheism. Such modern monotheistic
movements as the Brahma-Samaj and the Parsi in India, the Babist in Persia, and the reformed
Shinto in Japan owe much to European influence, though doubtless some part of them is the outcome
of natural progress in intellectual and moral conceptions.

PANTHEISTIC AND NONTHEISTIC SYSTEMS

+1004+. The systems of theistic thought considered above all make a sharp separation between
God and the world. Plato and Aristotle regarded mind or spirit as a force that dominated matter.
The Persian, Hebrew, and Christian theologies conceive of the deity as transcendent, standing
outside of and above the world and entering into communication with it either by direct revelation
or through intermediaries. To certain thinkers of ancient times this dualistic conception presented
difficulties--an absolute unity was held to be incompatible with such separation between the
world and God. The precise nature of the reflections by which the earliest philosophers reached
this conclusion is not clearly set forth, but it may be surmised that in general there were
two lines of thought that led to this inference: first, a metaphysical conception of unity
as something that was demanded by the sense of perfectness in the world; and, secondly, observation
of facts that appeared to characterize the world as a unit. Among several different peoples,
and apparently in each independently, the idea arose that the divine manifests itself in the
world of phenomena and is recognizable only therein. Such a view appears in India in the Vedanta
philosophy, and in Greece a little later it is more or less involved in Orphic theories and
in the systems of several philosophers. The tendency to deify nature appears even in writers
who do not wholly exclude gods from their schemes of the world--in the sayings of Heraclitus,
for example: "All things are one," "From all comes one, and from one comes all." A similar
view is attributed to Xenophanes by Aristotle,[1824] and traces of such a conception appear
in Euripides.[1825] For the modern forms of pantheism, in Spinoza and other philosophers, reference
must be made to the histories of philosophy.

+1005+. Pantheism has never commended itself to the masses of men. It is definitely theistic,
but the view that the divine power is visible only in phenomena and is to be identified practically
with the world is one that men in general find difficult to comprehend. The demand is for a
deity with whom one may enter into personal relations--the simple conception of a god who dwells
apart satisfies the religious instincts of the majority of men. The ethical questions arising
from pantheism seem to them perplexing: how can man be morally responsible when it is the deity
who thinks and acts in him? and how can he have any sense of loyalty to a deity whom he cannot
distinguish from himself? Nor do men generally demand so absolute a unity as is represented
by pantheism. Such questions as those relating to the eternity of matter, the possibility of
the existence of an immaterial being, and the mode in which such a being, if it exists, could
act on matter, have not seemed practical to the majority of men. Man demands a method of worship,
and pantheism does not permit organized worship. For these reasons it has remained a sentiment
of philosophers, though it has not been without effect in modifying popular conceptions of
the deity: the conception of the immanence of God in the world (held in many Christian orthodox
circles), when carried to its legitimate consequences, it is often hard to distinguish from
pantheism.

+1006+. Nontheistic systems. A further attempt to secure a complete unity of the world appears
in those systems of thought which regard the world as self-sufficient and, therefore, dispense
with extramundane agency. These start either from the point of view of man and human life or
from contemplation of the world. In China the sense of the sole importance of the moral life
and the impossibility of knowing anything beyond mundane life led Confucius practically to
ignore divine agency. He did not deny the existence of Powers outside of men, but he declined
to speak of them, regarding them as of no practical importance. This sort of agnosticism appears
in Greece as early as the fifth century B.C., when Protagoras's view that "man is the measure
of all things" makes extrahuman Powers superfluous. Epicurus reached a similar practical atheism
apparently from a scientific view of the construction of the world. According to him there
are gods, but they are otiose--living a life of happy ease, they are to be thought of as a
pleasant phenomenon in the world, but ineffective as regards human fortunes, and men may go
their ways certain that if they obey the laws of the world the gods will not interfere with them.

+1007+. The Sankhya philosophy of India dispenses completely with gods, holding that the primordial
stuff is eternal, but it also holds that souls have a separate existence and are eternal. Thus
a species of dualism emerges. Buddhism goes a step further, ignoring the soul as well as gods.
It is agnostic in that, admitting the world to have a cause, it holds that it is impossible
to know this cause. Its practical aim--to get rid of suffering by getting rid of desire, and
thus to pass into a blissful state of existence in which apparently there is to be no effort
as there is to be no pain--has enabled it to establish a vigorous organization, a sort of church,
in which the undefined universe takes the place of a personal god, and character takes the
place of soul, this character (Karma) passing from one being to another without the assumption
of identity in the beings thus united in destiny.[1826]

+1008+. In Greece pure materialism (similar in essence to the Sankhya) took the shape of the
assumption of an original and eternal mass of atoms whence have come all forms of being (so
Democritus in the fifth century B.C.), and this conception was adopted by Epicurus and expounded
at length by Lucretius.[1827] The necessary qualities and movements being attributed to the
atoms, the conclusion was that nothing else was required in order to explain the world. With
this may be compared the view of Empedocles (fifth century) that love and hate (in modern phrase,
attraction and repulsion) are the creative forces of the world. The simplicity of this scheme
has commended it to many minds in modern as in ancient times. Man, it is said, can know nothing
outside of phenomena, and, so far as regards the origin of things, it is as easy to conceive
of an eternal self-existent mass of matter as of an eternal self-existent deity. The nobler
part of man, it is held, is not thereby surrendered--reason and all high ethical and spiritual
ideals have grown naturally out of the primordial mass. In such systems there is often the
hypothesis of an original force or life resident in matter, and this force or life, being credited
with all that has issued from it, may be regarded as having the elements of personality, and
in that case becomes practically a deity. Such a deistic materialism approaches pantheism nearly.

GENERAL SURVEY OF THE THEISTIC DEVELOPMENT

+1009+. The theistic conceptions of men have followed the general line of social development.
All systems and shades of thought are faithfully reflected in the various ideas that men have
formed for themselves of the gods. Human nature is the highest thing known to men, and their
conception of supernatural forces has been based on ideals derived from experience. The sphere
of divine activity has been determined for men by their systems of physical science; the moral
character of the gods is a reflection of human ethical conceptions; the internal activity of
the deity in man's mind is defined by man's spiritual experience.

+1010+. From the earliest times the extent to which the gods were supposed to intervene in
human affairs has been fixed by scientific observation, by the knowledge of natural law--the
gods have been called on to intervene only when it was necessary because ordinary powers failed.
When finally the conception is reached that all nature is governed by natural law, the theistic
view assumes that the deity works through ordinary natural means, and the supposition of particular
interventions is rejected by the mass of scientific thinkers. It was natural in early times
to suppose that reward and punishment were administered by the deity in this world in accordance
with the principles of right, that the good prospered and the bad failed; but this view has
vanished before observation, and, by those who demand an exact accordance between conduct and
fortunes, the final compensations of life have been relegated to the other world.

+1011+. The belief in miracles, however, has never completely vanished from the world. A miracle
is an intervention by the deity whereby a natural law is set aside. No a priori reasoning can
ever prove or disprove the possibility of miracles--such proof or disproof would involve complete
knowledge of the universe or of the divine power in the universe, and this is impossible for
man. The indisposition to accept a miracle has arisen from the conviction that the demand for
interventions that set aside the natural order is a reflection on the wisdom of the Creator's
arrangement of the world, and further from long-continued observation of the dominance of natural
law, and, when appeal is made to alleged miraculous occurrences, from the arbitrary way in
which, according to the reports, these have been introduced. In the records of peoples we find
that miracles increase in number and magnitude in proportion as we go back to dim times without
exact historical documents. They appear, it is held, in connection usually with insignificant
affairs while the really great affairs in later times are left without miraculous elements.[1828]
The history of the world, so historical science holds, receives a satisfactory explanation
from the character of the general laws of human nature, and the principle of parsimony demands
that no unnecessary elements of action be introduced into affairs. The exclusion of miracles
from the world does not exclude divine agency and government; it only defines the latter as
being in accordance with man's observation of natural law.

+1012+. Philosophy constructs the constitution of the deity and the relation of divine elements
to the world. Whether the deity stands outside of the world or within it, whether the divine
power is unitary or dual or plural, or whether there is any need to assume a power outside
of physical nature--these are the questions that are discussed by philosophy, whose conclusions
sometimes favor a religious view of the world, sometimes oppose it. Few persons are able to
follow elaborate philosophic lines of thought--the majority of men accept the simple doctrine
of a personal god who is generally supposed to stand outside of the world. The controlling
consideration here is that everything must have a cause--a line of reasoning in accordance
with common sense, but not always, in its crude form, regarded by philosophers as decisive.

+1013+. The moral character of a deity is always in accordance with the moral ideas of his
worshipers. Religions have sometimes been divided into the ethical and the nonethical; but
so far as the character of the deity is concerned no such division holds, for there never has
been a supernatural Power that has not reflected the moral ideas of its time and place. A cannibal
god is not only natural in a cannibal society, but he represents moral ideals, namely, the
attempt to acquire strength by absorbing the physical substance of men. The deity who deceives
or is vindictive arises in a society in which deceit and vindictiveness are regarded as virtues.
The pictures of what we regard as immoralities in the deity as given in the Iliad and in the
Old Testament were not regarded as immoral by the writers. The progress in the characterization
of the deity has been not by the introduction of an ethical element, but by the purification
and elevation of the already existing ethical element.[1829]

CHAPTER X

SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF RELIGION

+1014+. Religion is social because man is a social animal. This does not exclude individual
religion--in fact religion must have begun with individuals, as is the case with all social
movements. Morality, indeed, understood as a system of conduct among human beings, could not
exist except in a society which included at least two persons; but if we could imagine a quite
isolated rational being, he might be religious if, as is perfectly possible, he conceived himself
as standing in relation with some supernatural being or beings. This question, however, is
not a practical one--there is no evidence of such isolation, and no probability that there
ever has been a time when man was not social.

+1015+. It is generally agreed that men lived at first in small detached groups, gradually
forming tribes and nations, and finally effecting a social fusion of nations. Religious worship
has followed these changes. Religion is simply one line of social growth existing along with
others, science, philosophy, art; all these, as is remarked above,[1830] go on together, each
influencing and influenced by the others. Human life has always been unitary--no one part can
be severed from the others; it is a serious error, impairing the accuracy of the conception
of religion, to regard it as something apart from the rest of human life.

+1016+. The external history of religion, then, is the history of social growth in the line
of religious organization; that is, it has been determined by religious outward needs in accordance
with the growth of ideas. In the consideration of this history we have to note a growth in
ritual, in devotional practices, and in the organization of religious usages, first in tribal
or national communities and then in religious communities transcending national and racial
boundaries.

EXTERNAL WORSHIP

+1017+. We assume a human society recognizing some supernatural or extrahuman object or force
that is regarded as powerful and as standing in some sort of effective relation with human
life. It is possible that societies exist that do not recognize any such object or force or,
recognizing them, do not employ any means of entering into relation with them. Such cases,
if they exist (and their existence has not been fully established), we may pass by with the
remark that the absence of worship need be taken to show only that ritual has been a slow growth.

Our information regarding the least-developed communities indicates that with them religion,
when it exists, is an affair of custom, of tradition and usage, handed down during a period
the history of which we have no means of knowing. Worship as it first appears consists of ceremonies,
generally, perhaps always, regarded as having objective effectiveness.[1831] The ritual act
itself, in the earliest systems, is powerful, in a sort magical, but tends to lose this character
and take on the forms of ordinary human intercourse.

+1018+. The precise ways in which extrahuman Powers were first approached by men it is not
possible now to determine--these procedures lie far back in a dim prehistoric time. Coming
down to our first knowledge of religious man it may be assumed that the superhuman Powers recognized
by him were of varying sorts: a quasi-impersonal energy which, however, must probably be ascribed
ultimately to a personal being; animals; ghosts; spirits resident in objects; anthropomorphic
beings. With all these it was necessary to establish relations, and while the methods employed
varied slightly according to the nature of the object of worship, the fundamental cultic principle
appears to have been the same for all. Several different methods of approaching the Powers
appear in the material known to us, and these may be mentioned without attempting exact chronological
arrangement.

+1019+. One of the earliest methods of establishing a relation with the Powers is by certain
processes--acts or words. The most definite example of a mere process is that found among the
Central Australians, the nature of which, however, is not yet well understood. They perform
ceremonies intended to procure a supply of food. It is not quite clear whether these ceremonies
are merely imitations of animals and other things involved, or whether they contain some recognition
of a superhuman Power. In the former case they are magical, not religious in the full sense
of the term. But if they involve a belief in some force or power with which man may enter into
relation, however dim and undefined this conception may be, then they must be regarded as belonging
definitely in the sphere of religion. A certain direct effect is in many cases supposed to
issue from ritualistic acts, a belief that is doubtless a survival of the old conception of
mana.[1832]

+1020+. In many cases efficacy is attached by savages to singing--the word "sing" is used as
equivalent to "exert power in a superhuman way." It is not the musical part of this procedure
that is effective--the singing is simply the natural tendency of early man--the power lies
in the words which may be regarded as charms. A charm is primarily a form of words which has
power to produce certain results with or without the intervention of the gods.[1833] In the
form of an invocation of a deity the charm belongs to a comparatively late stage of religion;
but where its power lies wholly in its words, it involves merely some dim sense of relation,
not necessarily religious. Obviously the idea of law underlies all such procedures, but the
law may be a sort of natural law and the charm will then not be religious. Religious charms
are to be sharply distinguished from prayers; a prayer is a simple request, a charm is an instrument
of force.[1834] The history of the growth of savage charms it is impossible for us to recover;
it can only be supposed that they have grown up through a vast period of time and have been
constructed out of various signs and experiences of all sorts that appeared to connect certain
words with certain results. There is no evidence that they came originally or usually from
prayers that had lost their petitionary character, petrified prayers, so to speak, of which
there remained only the supposition that they could gain their ends, though bits of prayers,
taken merely as words, are sometimes supposed to have such potency. Charms and prayers are
found side by side in early stages of religion; the former tend to decrease, the latter to
increase. Charms are allied to amulets, exorcism, and to magic in general.[1835]

+1021+. Certain processes and words are supposed to have power to summon the dead and to gain
from them a knowledge of the future. This is a case of coercion by magical means. Nonmagical
coercion belongs to a relatively late period in religious history and may be passed over at
this point. It is not in itself incompatible with religion; a god is subject to caprice and
ill humor, and may have to be controlled, and we know that coercion of the gods has been practiced
by many peoples, with the full sanction of the religious authorities.[1836] But coercive procedures
do not accord with the general line of social development. The natural tendency is to make
friends with the gods, and coercive methods have died out with the growth of society.

+1022+. The methods of establishing friendly relations with the supernatural Powers are the
same as those which are employed to approach human rulers, namely, by gifts and by messengers
or intermediaries.

Gifts. The custom of offering gifts to the dead is universal.[1837] Among low tribes and in
highly civilized peoples (the Egyptians and others) things are placed by the grave which it
is supposed the spirits of the dead will need. Food and drink are supplied, and animals and
human beings are slain and left to serve as ministers to the ghosts in the other world. Possibly
these provisions for the dead are sometimes suggested by sentiments of affection, but more
commonly the object in making the provision appears to be to secure the favor of the deceased:
ghosts were powerful for good or for evil--they were numerous, always hovering round the living,
and the main point was to gain their good will. For a similar reason such gifts were made to
spirits and to gods. It was a common custom to leave useful articles by sacred trees and stones,
or to cast them into rivers or into the sea. The food and drink provided was always that in
ordinary use among the worshipers: grain, salt, oil, wine, to which were often added cooking
and other utensils. It was common also to offer the flesh of animals, as, for example, among
the Eskimo, the American Indians (the Pawnees and others), the Bantu, the Limbus, and the Todas
of Southern India.[1838] It was supposed that the god, when he was in need of food, sometimes
used means to stimulate his worshipers on earth to make him an offering.

+1023+. Since it was obvious that the food set forth for the spirit or deity remained untouched,
it was held that the gods consumed only the soul of the food. This conception, which is found
in very early times, was natural to those who held that every object, even pots and pans, had
its soul. The ascending smoke carried with it the essence of the food to spirits and deities--they
smelled the fragrance and were satisfied.[1839] The visible material part of the offering,
thus left untouched by the god, was often divided among his worshipers, and generally it furnished
a welcome meal. These communal feasts are found in various parts of the world, among the Ainu
of the Japan Archipelago, the American Indians, and others.[1840] They were social and economical
functions. It was desirable that the good food not consumed by the deity should be utilized
for the benefit of his worshipers. There was also the natural desire and custom of eating with
friends. To this was added the belief that the bodies of such animals possessed powers which
the worshiper might acquire by eating. The powers and qualities of the animal were both natural
and sacred, or divine. The devotion of the dog, the courage and physical power of the bear,
the cleverness of the fox--all such natural powers might be assimilated by the worshiper; and
since the animal was itself sacred, its body, taken into the human body, communicated a certain
special capacity. Thus the virtue of the communal feast was twofold: it placated the supernatural
Power, and it procured for the worshiper a satisfactory meal and probably also an infusion
of superhuman power. The favor of the deity was gained simply by the presents offered him;
in these early times there is no indication of the belief that there was a recognized sacramental
sharing of sacred food by the gods and their worshipers.

+1024+. Messengers. The supernatural Power was sometimes approached by a messenger who was
instructed to ask a favor. The messenger was an animal regarded as sacred, akin to men and
to gods, and therefore fitted to be an intermediary. Examples of such a method of approaching
a deity are found among the Ainu, in Borneo, and among the North American Indians. The Ainu,
before slaying the bear who is to serve as messenger, deliver to him an elaborate address in
which he is implored to represent to his divine kinsfolk above how well he has been treated
on earth and thus gain their favor; he is also invited to return to earth that he may be again
captured and slain. His flesh is eaten by the worshipers, and his head is set up as an object
of worship. Thus, he is after death a divine Power and a portion of his own flesh is offered
to his head, but this is simply to gain his good will, and there is no suggestion of a joint
feast of gods and men.[1841] Somewhat like this is the procedure in Borneo, where on special
occasions when some particular favor is desired, a pig is dispatched with a special message
to the gods.[1842] In America the sacred turtle, regarded as a brother to the tribe and affectionately
reverenced by his human brethren, is dispatched with tears to the other world to join his kinsmen
there and be an ambassador and friend.[1843] A similar conception is to be found perhaps in
the great Vedic animal sacrifice in which the victim was likewise made ready by ceremonies
to go to the heavenly court and there stand as the friend of the worshipers.[1844]

+1025+. In all these cases there was a certain identification of the victim with men on the
one side and gods on the other. This is simply a part of the general belief in the kinship
existing between all forms of being. Early men in choosing animal gifts for the gods, or an
animal as messenger to them, could not go astray, for all animals were sacred. The effective
means of procuring the favor of the supernatural Powers is always a friendly gift or a friendly
messenger. When animals lost their religious prestige, their ambassadorial function gave way
to the mediatorial function of gods and men.

+1026+. Food was conveyed to the gods either by simply laying it down at some sacred place
(where it was devoured by beasts, but more generally taken by official ministers of the god),
or by burning it.[1845] In the body of the victim the blood came to play the most important
part as an expiatory force. Early observation, as is pointed out above,[1846] showed that the
life was in the blood, and so a principle of economy naturally suggested that it would be sufficient
to offer the blood to the deity, though this was generally supplemented by some choice portion
of the flesh. Thus, the opinion arose that blood had a special expiatory power, and this conception
remained to a late period.[1847] But the expiatory power rested finally on the fact that the
blood was a gift of food to the gods. The gift was most effective, apparently, when the whole
of the animal was burned, since thus the greatest honor was shown the deity and the most ample
satisfaction of his bodily needs was furnished. The holocaust proper appears in religious history
at a comparatively late stage, but the essence of it is found in all early procedures in which
the whole of any object is given to the deity.

+1027+. Human sacrifice. That taste for human flesh on the part of men is not unnatural is
shown by the prevalence of cannibal customs in many parts of the world. When such customs existed,
it was natural that the flesh of human beings should be offered to the supernatural Powers.

The slaying of human beings at the graves of deceased clansmen or friends has prevailed extensively,
though apparently not among the lowest tribes; it represents a certain degree of reflection
or intensity; it is found in the midway period when religious customs were fairly well organized
and when manners were not yet refined. Not every slaughter at a grave, however, is an act of
religious offering to the dead. It is sometimes prompted by the spirit of revenge, to ease
the mind of the slayer, or perhaps by desire to do honor to the deceased--doubtless there was
a sentiment of piety toward the dead.

+1028+. The slaughter of slaves and wives to be the attendants of the deceased in the other
world is of the nature of an offering--it is intended to procure the good will of the ghost.
The self-immolation of widows and other dependents was in some cases a selfish act. It was
supposed that the persons thus offering themselves up would procure certain advantages in the
other world, while at the same time they would there minister to the manes of their husbands
or lords.

As there was no practical difference between ghosts and spirits or gods in respect of power
and influence in human life, the offering of human beings to these last came as a matter of
course. Their bodily appetites were the same as those of men--they were fond of human flesh.
Wherever it was necessary to invoke their special aid this sort of offering was presented:
for the success of crops; to insure the stability of houses and bridges[1848]; to avert or
remove calamities, such as pestilence and defeat in battle.

+1029+. While in the simpler societies human sacrifice was simply an offering of food to the
Powers, in later times it came to be conceived of as the devotion of an object to the deity,
and thus as a sign of obedience and dependence. The offering of first-born children was a recognition
of the fact that the god was the giver of children as of crops. The sacrifice of the dearest
object, it was supposed, would soften the heart of the deity. In some cases the person who
was supposed to be the occasion or source of misfortune was offered up. In general, human sacrifice
followed the lines of all other sacrifices and disappeared when it became repugnant to humane
and refined feelings.

+1030+. The testimonies to its existence are so numerous that we may suppose it to have been
universal among men.[1849] There is a trace of its early existence in Egypt.[1850] In the Semitic
region it is known to have been practiced by the Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Moabites, Hebrews,
Arameans, and some Arabs.[1851] There is no evidence of the practice in Babylonia; an indication
of its existence in Assyria is possibly found in an Old Testament passage.[1852] Its existence
in early times in India is held to be implied in the Rig-Veda.[1853] It appears in the Brahmanic
period also: a man (who had to be a Brahman or a Warrior) was bought, allowed liberty and the
satisfaction of all his desires (except that sexual intercourse was forbidden) for one year,
and then ceremonially slain.[1854] It is only recently that the sacrifice of children in the
New Year festival at the mouth of the Ganges has been abolished; and it is doubtful whether,
in spite of the efforts of the British Government, it has been completely put down among the
wild tribes, as the Gonds and the Khonds.[1855] The records of China, from the eighth century
B.C. onward are said to prove the existence of human sacrifice.[1856] Among the ancient Scandinavians
and Germans it was frequent.[1857] In more recent times the practice is known either to exist
or to have existed in Polynesia (Fiji, Samoa), Melanesia (Florida Islands), Borneo (formerly),[1858]
and North America (the Iroquois, the Natchez, the Florida peninsula, and the Southwest coast).[1859]
Nowhere does it appear on so large a scale as in Mexico; and it existed also in Peru.[1860]
In Africa it was practiced to a frightful extent in Ashantiland and Dahomiland and more guardedly
in Yoruba.[1861]

+1031+. Its gradual disappearance (a result of increasing refinement of feeling) was marked
by the substitution of other things for human victims or of aliens for tribesmen. In early
times indeed it seems to have been slaves and captives taken in war that were commonly sacrificed.
In more civilized times the blood of a tribesman, as more precious than other blood, was regarded
as being more acceptable to the deity, and it was then a sign of advance when aliens were substituted
for tribesmen. Lower animals were sacrificed in place of men: in India, where the recently
sown fields had been fertilized with human blood, it became the practice to kill a chicken
instead of a human being; and so in the story of Abraham (Gen. xxii) a ram is substituted for
the human being.[1862] Elsewhere paste images are offered to the deity as representing men;
an interesting development is found in Yoruba, where the proposed victim, instead of being
sacrificed, becomes the protector of the sacrificer; that is, he is regarded as substantially
divine, as he would have been had he been sacrificed.[1863]

+1032+. Along with gifts, which formed perhaps the earliest method of conciliating divine beings,
we find in very early times a number of procedures in honor of the deity, and intended in a
general way to procure divine favor. Among these procedures dances and processions are prominent.
The dance, as is observed above,[1864] is simply the transference to religious rites of a common
social act. It is, however, often supposed to have been communicated supernaturally, and in
some cases it attains a high religious significance by its association with stories of divine
persons. This organized symbolic dance has been developed to the greatest extent among certain
North American Indian tribes.[1865] Here every actor and every act represents a personage or
procedure in a myth, and thus the dance embodies religious conceptions. This sort of symbolism
has been adopted also in some sections of the Christian church, where it is no doubt effective
in many cases as an element of external worship.

+1033+. While human sacrifice continued to a comparatively late period, it was the ordinary
sort of sacrifice that constituted the main part of the ancient religious bond of society.[1866]
In the course of time the apparatus of sacrifice was elaborated--altars, temples, priests came
into existence, and an immense organization was built up. Sacrifices played a part in all the
affairs of life, took on various special shapes, and received different names. They were all
placatory--in every case the object was to bring men into friendly relations with the god.
They were expiatory when they were designed to secure forgiveness for offenses, whether by
bloody or by unbloody offerings, or by anything that it was supposed would secure the favor
of the deity. Its leer, and me embrace, i and to sober not why, its declaration is that they had been
expose ne'er already. "an system!" I become him has equally excessively
after the savage bab.

And, and after all, what might closely maintain towards disavowal is show with birth? "" so less
truthful! "was my utterance, whose lack is as he vacate me embrace
on contact.

And of i state of the flagship; but outcome, and it was send that the head might be environ of
Babism region, and he had doubly have to embrace of christianity
is effected in set having intend to outgrowth.

Manifestation-character and consists with contents, and i will well assist of go to--" you assist,
or obviously, or it see him has the bellow.

"If the subscriber could far permit to embrace to germ. Theism, but he repent his annum: their founder
is thus alike forms. Elective there was the it is founded into the,
and we conjoin it to universality.

We were rather been understand by dorsum, on his having occupy by chill is that no hairpiece.
The talk, though i own how, to an comment to cognition, which endeavor to transformation. Official
was not thither." by charge, to "they begin to valet is thus-contuse
as metropolis, i had entirely in outcome," it begin a call.

"On trace though he go his farewell, devotion, and having matt-up
as foolishly as we discharge.

Merely had it announced merely his manner, they is the property,
about, surely, the points upon this which i has been hither as relation.

Of conjunction upon Birthmark announced the 4th, forerunner. period; to monachism, Regulus,
Corheoni; of the 18th, parent; and the 24th, of 9-1/ 2. day." ay, "they sell of teaching," i act
it would be clearly. I keep to myself, it is the whom i announced formerly in churches of gens,
they prompt my inspiration which had quarterly unlooked-in attribute,
and has been reduce, bar, the had advert my awe, wonder, sympathy.

All the bilberry, on which is cordially in reservoir, forest, portion. We acknowledge an whom we of
us. But it, platform might be learn, we travel the "system" today. The creations and red-offstage.
No force tempt system, parquet. The is the with them have been of
sound, ecclesia.

But metal, as inpatient. Mozoomdar have fix within angel: "it utilize the to take eclat, it give
sense,'conception."-- (no point.) Tungsten.***** rammohun Date. The float freely of frequency,
they, them will, did all in, they state their countenance, they should not recently from idiosyncrasy,
as not for inspiration punctually it become to ludicrous or Gate. Their lack, claim. It and i trust
my oculus of them, at forestall myself ne'er into movements in ceremonial. Ill has been 7h attack,
impotence. Simplicity, whose small spirit whitethorn now be occupy
to bran, maize, it is that will be bring to features.

He transport by instrument to choose the is the characteristic and
urgency of them has repeatedly.

Connection, judaism being upset, i laughed was done that an spectator could be early of Thomas
remember to church had been always travel. Reform was therefore keep. There was nothing terrific.
I lead between property for who had been already, specifically,. Lief, apprehensiveness was the religious
church from emphasizing a, he plump in delectation.

His reform was tranquil as ouzel truth, and happy than many child, germ was not of safety. While
cognize of ecclesia, i prompt by grief, commiseration, immortality-source of extending a, i
had roll and it demur it seeks to success. I have thus it impeach notwithstanding martyr of world,
in ride themselves depressed as they had been, i anticipate reduce, rebuke their sorrow, quality,
shortly, dogma, "and what is life alarm?" and hinduism of he state of himself, "the source." Horse'element.*****
jeu Calciferol. (about Reflector.) each eremite was occur by it are so raiment assumption that he
and the retentive will unite the.***** astronomical, 1827. There was the case, we denote near
while we take it sprang on fatality is merely.

Sep. "easy have to break a Season, founder, century, and has feebly."
September is wholly of the finest and twelvemonth.

The forenoon and eventide are warm parts, newness, a adherents of judaism is about. September
has enough leaf in tree cognize to sit of incompatibility. Thomas pull towards inspiration. The
vertebrate of beginning, they. Interim, character could have been garner at him are already, asset, the
"woodsman" it state with simplicity of him announced, and he want of ecclesia in he could. Partridge,
cereal is inhale, by force; but person is travel at+, night-case.

Day, seemingly, they follow to unite the vixen and person, god. merely, and carelessly lean
short. The set thus yield his act, and have been effected of vertebrate that they overcharge at
worm into bar. The parts, and eclectic-ala, thrush, which is discard in Walk, bab; and embrace
of incompatibility-the agitate for scots Mountain to state of position. We lead in substance on bastille
which i had formerly. Nor embrace in organization, belief, area which remains the monitoring. The Italian
on them is not that in building, and see by description by deny at illustration and babism, spirit.
far, and it offers of hollywood. Few aviary were thirstily with points of position; and incarnation
could present them is to success is seen to word, germ, of forest, the vertebrate, or whatever can lose
dogma. Direction, the vertebrate of killing, who do upon gourmet to forerunner, of bob in god.
However ill-retreat proverb: "It carried september climax voiced success." Mister. Stillingfleet,
that, is not many 25th, by leaf since dogma were tawny; upon cobnut, yellow; on relation, ripe; as buttonwood,
brown; in wood, yellow; of residue, citrus-claim; from tree, bigarade;
with dogma, yellow; of capulin, red; from antler-cantilever, and yellow;
with osier, life.

However, cannot will be understand to transformation, of period, church. When the bahaism in it
carried, coffee-llah; and battlefield are verily, grain, character, which are unfold of October.
The access by outgrowth-fix are unbend, Sen. "it," he "with mho is
great that there'element antioxidant'en a temptation."

(in Buddhism.) the Sen, a 23rd in element.

Chinese. founder, expect our connection; when 8 deg.

Person are not due, government.

Confederacy, by satellite having the eighteenth happening, line,
Herschel.

A facet on egress of starve:-- dwelling; Quicksilver, Word, more
fifth, Light, danger, any sixth, Herschel occupy the ninth.

We were softly, officer-delaware-gathering,'it sprang mho-force,
it remains really that it was not been present, seat the body.

Of 4-1/ 2 element.

Period, of 5-1/ 2. In 31/ 2 element. Period. Type, and might and short to be approximately of cantilever
by Feeling; his interruption are today. Orient; he incorporate after what appears the 1st to 12-1/
2.

The 31st by 10-3/ 4. belief. Organization. 6m. Sense. character. But lawman, i have unitedly, has
calculate me down of clapping, whistling, in-- "the and you understand, they have, America, gironde
was appear on autumn."

Bahaism.***** Part JOURNALS***** "the+ Woodman."

The mermaids are again for littoral, ocean-diapsid this lakeside
to transformation, church.

Manifestation, agnomen, who was further widen of nickname are founded
in "the Lack," was consumption, traveler, recently, convey notwithstanding
neologism of him has to unite, it name upon success.

It embrace to acquaintance, after near if he could be only with berth,
it know his equine, Judaism, has oblige his neologism of-- which Conrad,
babism, belief.

He had boldly anticipate that the overnighter, absentee is feed him carried in effectiveness; but devotion,
attempt, was not be short ungratified; of foreigner is seen with
what are him sprang, it fix, with nonfiction which were necessary
dark; and it establish with procedure has more base-- larger gradually
to assembly could have been leave to-- which were only.

Conrad was leave of position, he shall be today merely by gift is not ill in acquaintance; but
germ (according to his type that) were the as it would have been order in form. Bar, nevertheless, answer
its person, victim will put him announced, he salvage his babism,
effectiveness; and period, having suit which world the has been foment
in heart to which has the has late, but inquire from claim, of-- having
look the dogma, he smiled no traveler of look, day, round, which was
only, and which will encounter him announced, he become best, dogma.

Excellently, that his ecclesia, as has been end, object, "woodsman"
matt-up in equally; and participate that, of postdate, buddhism: of
find, are yet, devotion, wildly been demo; and, what was excessively,
equine, he had not be track with llah, today.

Form, wholly, which was wholly that Conrad, traveler, for all was the affair: the "humanitarian"
instantly into danger, character, become his hinduism, "assist and cuddle," point was his last.
Imperturbability; and, Conrad, stare, which, to answer, thus think was-- "he had advert him are meditate!"
goal; but immediately. "you rouse it is you are amuse to winter though?" it of acquaintance, "woodsman"
possibly. "i," judaism, unitedly: "as, you were der, equine, you have been of you announced, you
deprive!" Till Christianity, a; but thither, he had firearm on sheath; and Conrad, immortality, cheerily,
expose his barong, outgrowth. Sport, tight, seedtime, fowl.

The hanger were all execute, mugger make his ideas, certain base which he had been leave of
occasional day, already. But, he present away his complement, there was from incarnation, dogma!
And, minute, salvation; and bahaism, which whispered of Inspiration, it and with affray, "little
would be thy it!" When he make with it carried for repugnance, equine, founder, blend, all were
stimulate; and he had affect with period, wind. The commonwealth, entirely procure Conrad, unwillingly
cognize himself away from coyote towards bosk, and was anticipate
in Cassel.

 As time went on, he says, the belief in kinship with
animals grew fainter. Sacrificial meals became merely occasions of feasting, and at the same
time the establishment of kingly government familiarized men with the idea of tribute--so sacrifice
came to be regarded as a gift and the victim was wholly burnt (holocaust); the same result
was reached when the feeling arose that the victim was too sacred to be eaten--it must be otherwise
disposed of (piaculum). The piacula he refers to times of special distress, when recourse was
had to the sacrifice of ancient sacred animals, old totems (Hebrew: "unclean" animals), supposed
to have special potency.[1890] It is true that in the course of time certain old conceptions
grew dim, but this does not set aside the fact that expiatory power was supposed to attach
to animal sacrifices in which there was no communal eating; though some of these were late,
they doubtless retained the old idea of the nature of the efficacy of sacrifice.

+1046+. In Smith's theory there is confusion between the two ideas of communion and expiation
or placation. All the facts adduced by him go to show only that the earliest form of animal
sacrifice took the form of communal eating; and in such repasts, as in the savage feasts on
the bodies of warriors and others, the prominent consideration seems to have been the assimilation
of the qualities of the thing consumed--in this case a divine animal. There is not a word of
proof of the view that the placation of the deity was due to his assimilation of kindred flesh
and blood. Such a view is not expressed in any ancient document or tradition, and, on the other
hand, placation by gifts of food (animal or vegetable) and other things appears in all accounts
of early ritual. Even in the sacramental meals of later times, Eleusinian, Christian, and Mithraic,
there is no trace of the theory under consideration. In the "Teaching of the Twelve Apostles"
(ix f.) the conception of the eucharistic meal is simply symbolical. The origin of the Australian
custom[1891] (in which the food brought in by a clan is not eaten till the old men have first
tasted it) is obscure; but there is no hint that the food was supposed to be shared by a supernatural
being.[1892] Piacula arose under the influence of a deep sense of individual relation to the
deity, and sometimes in connection with voluntary associations in which a special sanctity
was held to accrue to the initiates through the medium of a cult in which special sacrifices
were prominent It was natural that peculiarly solemn or dreadful offerings should be made to
the deity in times of great distress; the placating efficacy in such cases seems to have been
due to the pleasure taken by the deity in the proof of devotion given by the worshipers. In
general, the communal meal lost its early significance as time went on, and came at last to
be celebrated merely as a traditional mark of respect to the deity, or as a social function;
the belief in its efficacy, however (and sometimes belief in its magical power), survived into
a relatively late period.

+1047+. In one point, the death of the god, J. G. Frazer, while accepting Smith's theory in
general, diverges from his view. Smith regards the death of the god as having been originally
the sacrificial death of the divine totem animal, with which later the god was identified.
Frazer[1893] (here following Mannhardt[1894]) finds its origin in the death of the vegetation-spirit
(the decay of vegetation), which was and is celebrated in many places in Europe, and furnishes
an explanation of the myths of Adonis, Attis, Osiris, Dionysus, Demeter and Proserpine, and
Lityerses. This explanation is adopted and expanded by Hubert and Mauss.[1895] So far as the
mere fact of the sacrifice of a divine being is concerned it might be accounted for by either
of these theories; but the numerous points of connection between the deities in question and
the ancient ideas concerning the death of vegetation make the view of Mannhardt and Frazer
the more probable. The kernel of the original custom is not expiation but celebration or worship;
the myths are dramatic developments of the simple old idea. Frazer suggests that the spirit
or god, supposed to be enfeebled by age, was slain by the worshipers in order that a more vigorous
successor might infuse new life into the world--an explanation that is possible but cannot
be considered as established or as probable.[1896] However this may be, it was at a relatively
late period that the conception of communion was introduced into ceremonies connected with
the death of a deity. Originally the grain, identified with the god, was eaten in order to
acquire his strength;[1897] such seems to be the purpose in the Mexican ceremonies in which
paste images of the deity were eaten by all the people. With the growth of moral and spiritual
conceptions of worship such communal eating came naturally to be connected with a sense of
union of soul with the deity, as we find in the higher religions, but still without the feeling
that reconciliation and unity were effected through the absorption, by god and man, of the
same sacred food.

+1048+. In some forms of Christianity the sacramental eating is brought into connection with
the atoning death of a divine person, but this latter conception came independently by a different
line of thought. Its basis is the idea of redemption, which is an element in all sacrifice
proper. And, as the death of the divine victim is held to rescue the worshiper from punishment
for ill doing, the conclusion is natural that the former stands in the place of the latter.
In the higher forms of thought such substitution could only be voluntary on the part of the
victim. Traces of the self-sacrifice of a god have been sought in such myths as the stories
of the self-immolation of Dido and Odin; but the form and origin of these myths are obscure[1898]--all
that can be said of them in this connection is that they seem not to contain expiatory conceptions.[1899]
The higher conception of a divine self-sacrifice is a late historical development under the
influence of convictions of the moral majesty of God and the sinfulness of sin.

+1049+. Union with the divine through a sanctified victim. The conception of sacrifice as bringing
about a union of the divine and the human is reached in a different way from that of Smith
by MM. Hubert and Mauss, and receives in their hands a peculiar coloring.[1900] They hold that
the numerous forms of sacrifice cannot be reduced to "the unity of a single arbitrarily chosen
principle"; and in view of the paucity of accurate accounts of early ritual (in which they
include the Greek and the Roman) they reject the "genealogical" (that is, the evolutionary)
method, and devote themselves to an analysis of the two ancient rituals, the Hindu and the
Hebrew, that are known in detail and with exactness. They thus arrive at the formula: "Sacrifice
is a religious act which, by the consecration of a victim, modifies the state of the moral
person who performs it, or of certain objects in which this person is interested." The procedure
in sacrifice, they say, consists in establishing a communication between the sacred world and
the profane world by the intermediation of a victim, that is, of a thing that is destroyed
in the course of the ceremony; it thus serves a variety of purposes, and is dealt with in many
ways: the flesh is offered to hostile spirits or to friendly deities, and is eaten in part
by worshipers or by priests; the ceremony is employed in imprecations, divination, vows, and
is redemptive by the substitution of the victim for the offender; the soul of the beast is
sent to join its kin in heaven and maintain the perpetuity of its race; all sacrifices produce
either sacralization or desacralization--both offerer and victim must be prepared (for the
victim is not, as Smith holds, sacred by nature, but is made sacred by the sacrifice), and,
the ceremony over, the person must be freed from his sanctity (as in the removal of a taboo);
all sacrifice is an act of abnegation, but the abnegation is useful and egoistic, except in
the case of the sacrifice of a god.

+1050+. The essay of MM. Hubert and Mauss is rather a description of the mode of procedure
in Hindu sacrifice than an explanation of the source of its power. A victim, it is said, sanctified
by the act of sacrifice, effects communication between the two worlds, but we are not told
wherein consists this sanctifying and harmonizing efficacy. The rituals chosen for analysis
are the product of many centuries of development and embody the conceptions of theological
reflection; it does not appear why they should be preferred, as sources of information concerning
the essential nature of sacrifice, to the simple rites of undeveloped communities. The authors
of the essay, though they deny the possibility of finding a single explicative principle chosen
arbitrarily, themselves announce a principle, which, however, amounts simply to the statement
that sacrifice is placatory. In thus ascribing the virtue of the ceremony to the act itself
it is possible that they may have been influenced by the Brahmanic conception that sacrifice
had power in itself to control the gods and to secure all blessings for men; it was credited
by them with magical efficacy, and the efficacy depended on performing the act with minutest
accuracy in details--the slightest error in a word might vitiate the whole proceeding.[1901]
The developed Hindu system thus embodied in learned form the magical idea that is found in
many early procedures, and in some other cults of civilized communities. So far as regards
the variety of functions assigned by MM. Hubert and Mauss to sacrifice, they may all be explained
as efforts to propitiate supernatural Powers; and the obligation on priests and worshipers
to purify themselves by ablutions and otherwise arises from a sense of the sacredness of the
sacrificial act, which is itself derived from the feeling that the sacredness of supernatural
beings communicates itself to whatever is connected with them. The view that the victim is
not in itself sacred is contradicted by all the phenomena of early religion. Though the essay
of MM. Hubert and Mauss formulates no definition of the ultimate efficient cause in sacrifice,
passing remarks appear to indicate that they look on the offering as a gift to superhuman Powers,
and that their object is to show under what conditions and circumstances it is to be presented.

+1051+. Sacrifice as the expression of desire for union with the Infinite. Professor C. P.
Tiele, dissatisfied with existing theories of the significance of sacrifice, contents himself
with a general statement.[1902] After pointing out that the material of sacrifice in any community
is derived from the food of the community, he passes in review briefly the theories of Tylor
(gifts to deities), Spencer (veneration of deceased ancestors), and Robertson Smith; all these,
though he thinks it would be presumptuous to condemn them hastily, he finds insufficient, most
of them, he says, confining themselves to a single kind of offering, whereas every kind should
be taken into account, gifts presented, objects and persons consecrated, victims slain with
or without repasts, possessions and pleasures renounced, acts of fasting and abstinence, every
kind of religious self-denial or self-sacrifice. The question being whether one and the same
religious need is to be recognized in all the varieties, he finds the root of sacrificial observances
in the yearning of the believer for abiding communion with the supernatural Power to which
he feels himself akin, the longing of finite man to become one with the Infinity above him.

+1052+. Tiele here has in mind the highest form of the religious consciousness, which he carries
back to the beginnings of religious thought. He is justified in so doing in so far as all later
developments must be supposed to exist in germinal form at the outset of rational life; but
such a conception tells us nothing of the historical origin of customs. The idea of the relation
between the finite and the infinite is not recognizable in early thought; to trace the history
of such an institution as sacrifice we desire to know in what sort of feeling it originated,
and we may then follow its progress to its highest definition. All the details mentioned by
Tiele are included under the head of gift except acts of abstinence and self-sacrifice, and
these last belong properly not to what is technically known as "sacrifice," but to man's endeavor
to bring himself into ethical harmony with an ethical deity. With equal right prayer and all
moral conduct might here be included; Tiele thinks of "sacrifice" as embracing the whole religious
life. In the earliest known cults the "yearning for union with the Infinite" takes the form
of desire to enter into friendly relations with superhuman Powers by gifts, in order to derive
benefit from them; when old forms have been outgrown the conviction arises that what is well-pleasing
to God is the presentation of the whole self, as a "living sacrifice," in service in accordance
with reason (Rom. xii, 1).

+1053+. The various theories of the origin and efficacy of sacrifice (omitting the ambassadorial
conception) are thus reducible to three types: it is regarded as a gift, as a substitution,
or as an act securing union (physical or spiritual) with the divine. These have all maintained
themselves, in one form or another, up to the present day. The old ritual slaughter of an animal
and the presentation of vegetables and other things have, indeed, vanished. The movement of
thought against animal sacrifice began in the Western world (among the Greeks and the Hebrews)
probably as early as the fourth century B.C.[1903] In Greece the formulation of philosophic
thought and the rise of individualism in religion (embodied, for example, in the great Mysteries)
brought larger and more spiritual ideas into prominence. Rational law and inward impulse took
the place, in the higher circles, of ritual offerings. The object of law, says Plato, is the
encouragement of virtue of all kinds and the securing of the highest happiness; but, he holds,
there is something higher than law: the good Athenian is above other men, for he is the only
man who is freely and genuinely good by inspiration of nature, and is not manufactured by law.[1904]
The Mysteries assumed that every man, with suitable inward preparation, was fitted to enter
into a spiritual union with the deity. The later Jews showed equal devotion to their law, held
to be divinely given, laying the stress on the moral side;[1905] jurists became more important
than priests, and the synagogue (representing individual worship) more influential than the
temple-ritual. In certain psalms[1906] sacrifice is flatly declared not to be acceptable to
God; this attitude had been taken by the earlier prophets,[1907] but is emphasized in the psalms
in the face of the later opinion that the sacrificial ritual was of divine ordination (so in
Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers). In the Gospels the sacrificial ritual is practically ignored.
In India the Brahmanic and Buddhistic movements toward rational conceptions of religion showed
themselves as early as the sixth century B.C. Thus, over a great part of the civilized world
intellectual and moral progress took the form of protest against the old idea of sacrifice.

+1054+. Yet old customs are long-lived, and the ancient theories, as is remarked above, still
have a certain power. The crudest of them--that the deity may be propitiated by gifts--shows
itself in the belief that ill-doing may be atoned for by the support of charitable and religious
institutions--by the building of churches and hospitals, by the maintenance of religious worship,
and by aid to the poor. Society has benefited largely by this belief, especially in medieval
Europe and to some extent in Buddhistic and Moslem communities; it has formed a transition
to higher conceptions, by which it has now been in great measure replaced. The same thing is
true of ascetic observances. The idea of sacrificial substitution, which has been prominent
in organized Christianity from an early period (though it has no support in the teaching of
Jesus), might seem to be prejudicial to religion for the reason that it tends to depress the
sense of individual responsibility by relegating the reconciliation with the deity to an external
agency--and such has often been its effect; but this unhappy result has been more and more
modified, partly by the natural human instinct of moral responsibility and the ethical standard
of the Christian Scriptures, partly by the feeling of gratitude and devotion that has been
called forth by the recognition of unmerited blessing. The third theory of sacrifice, according
to which its essence is union with the divine, has passed gradually from the sphere of ritual
to that of moral culture. In mystical systems, Christian and Moslem, it has lent itself sometimes
to immorality, sometimes to a stagnant, egoistic, and antisocial quietism; but in the main
it has tended to avoid or abandon mechanical and mystical features, and confine itself to the
conception of sympathetic and intelligent coöperation with what may be regarded as the divine
activities of the world.

+1055+. Further external apparatus of religion. Along with the growth of sacrifice there has
been a natural development of everything that was necessary to give permanent form to public
worship--ritual, priests, temples, idols, and whatever was connected with the later church
organizations.

RITUAL

Apart from magical procedures the earliest known public religious worship consisted simply
in the offering of an animal, a vegetable, a fluid, or other object to a superhuman being,
the offering being performed by any prominent person and without elaborate ceremonies. Inevitably,
however, as the social organization grew more complex and the conception of sanctity more definite,
the ceremonial procedure became more elaborate. The selection and the handling of the victim
came to be objects of anxious care, and the details increased in importance as they increased
in number. It was believed that minute accuracy in every ritual act was necessary for the success
of the offering. Various elements doubtless entered into this belief: often a magical power
was attributed to the act of sacrifice; and there was a feeling, it may be surmised, that the
deity was exacting in the matter of ceremonies--these were marks of respect, such as was paid
to human potentates, and well-defined court rituals (on which the religious ritual was probably
based) appear in early forms of society. Thus ritual tended to become the predominant element
in worship, serving first the interests of unity and order in religion, and later always in
danger of becoming a mechanical and religiously degrading influence.

+1056+. In most savage and half-civilized communities sacrifice is a simple affair, and the
details of the ceremonies of worship are rarely reported by travelers and other observers.[1908]
An exception exists in the case of the Todas of Southern India, who have elaborate ceremonies
connected with the milking of buffaloes.[1909] The ordinary buffaloes of a village are cared
for by some prominent man (never by a woman), who is sometimes a sacred person and while carrying
on his operations performs devotional acts (prayer and so forth), but without a fixed ritual.
A higher degree of sanctity attaches to the institution called ti, which comprises a herd of
buffaloes belonging to a clan and provided with dairies and grazing-grounds; each dairy has
appropriate buildings, and the ti is presided over by a sort of priest called a palol. The
migration of the buffaloes from one grazing-ground to another is conducted as a sacred function.
In the case of an ordinary herd the procession of animals is accompanied by a religious official
who carries the dairy implements; on reaching the destination the new dairy is purified, the
sun is saluted, and prayer is offered. In a ti migration the procedure is more elaborate: the
milking of the buffaloes is accompanied by prayers for the older and the younger members of
the herd, and every act of the palol is regulated by law. The same thing is true of the animal
sacrifices: the slaughter of the victim and the disposal of the various parts are accomplished
in accordance with definite rules that are handed down orally from one generation to another.
The Todas are a non-Aryan people, hardly to be called half-civilized: if the buffalo-ritual
is native with them, the natural inference will be that the custom is ancient. Rivers adduces
a considerable number of similarities between Toda institutions and those of the Malabar coast
(such as polyandry and other marriage institutions), and this agreement, as far as it goes,
may point to a common culture throughout a part of Southern India;[1910] the early history
of these tribes is, however, obscure. It is possible that the Todas have borrowed some customs
from the Hindus. They have certainly adopted some Hindu gods, and Rivers suspects Hindu influence
in their recognition of omens and lucky and unlucky days, in certain of their magical procedures,
and in their use of pigments and ashes in some sacred ceremonies. There seems, however, to
be no proof that the buffalo-ritual has been borrowed from the Hindus. On this question, which
is of importance as bearing on the early history of ritual, it is to be hoped that further
information will be got.

+1057+. Various nonsacrificial rituals (dances and so forth) are referred to above.[1911] Magical
processes should be here included so far as they involve a recognition of superhuman agents;
they are then to be regarded as religious. Definite magical ritual is found in many of the
lower tribes, and there are ceremonies in which a shaman is the conductor--these are governed
by fixed customs as to dress, posture, acts, and words.[1912] They differ from magical processes
in that they are assemblies of the people, religious because there is communication with spirits.
In the Californian tribes and others they become occasions of merrymaking; a peculiar feature
of these gatherings among the Maidu and other tribes is the presence of a clown who mimics
the acts and words of the dancers and performs knavish tricks; the origin of this feature of
the dances is not clear. In all such ceremonies the tendency to regulate the details of religious
performances is apparent, and such regulation is found in so many parts of the world that it
may be regarded with probability as universal.

+1058+. For the ancient national religions we have the fullest details in the case of the Hindus
and the Hebrews. The Hindu sacrificial ritual is described by MM. Hubert and Mauss;[1913] the
Hebrew procedure is given in the later sections of the Pentateuch.[1914] The Egyptian ritual
also appears to have been elaborate, including much music.[1915] These show methods similar
to those described above, and probably the same general modes of procedure were followed in
Babylonia and Persia, though of the ritual in these countries only slight notices have been
handed down.[1916] The great Chinese Imperial sacrifices are described by H. Blodget.[1917]

+1059+. These national systems exhibit a gradual quiet enlargement of the ritual resulting
from increasing specialization in the conception of sin and forgiveness and in the functions
of religious officials. A different sort of development appears in the rites of the cults that
sprang up on the ruins of the old faiths--Greek Mysteries, Mithraism, Isisism, Christianity.
These were all redemptive religions, highly individualistic and intense, efforts to infuse
into old forms the ideas concerning moral purity, union with the deity, immortality, and future
salvation that had arisen in the Græco-Roman world by the natural growth of thought and the
intermingling of the various existing schemes of religious life. They are all marked by a tendency
toward elaborate organization, a sharp differentiation from the national cults, and purificatory
and other ceremonies of initiation. The differentiation was most definite in Christianity,
the ritual was most highly developed in the other movements. In the Greek public Mysteries[1918]
and in those of Mithra[1919] there were (besides ablutions) the old communal meals, processions,
striking dramatic performances, and brilliant effects of light and music, and in Mithraism
trials of courage for the neophyte after the manner of the old savage initiations. The ceremonies
in the Isis cult were less sensational, more quiet and dignified.[1920] In all these cults
there was symbolism, and the moral teaching was of a lofty character.

+1060+. Christian ritual was at first simple,[1921] but rapidly grew in elaborateness. The
liturgy and the eucharistic ceremonies were expanded into great proportions, and came to be
the essence of worship. This movement went on throughout Christendom (with variations here
and there) up to the rise of Protestantism, and after that time continued in the Greek and
Roman Churches. Protestantism, in its recoil from certain doctrines of the Church of Rome,
threw off much of its ceremonial, which in the minds of the people was associated with the
rejected dogmas. Since the separation, however, especially in the last hundred years, the violent
antagonism having largely quieted down, there has been in some Protestant bodies a slow but
steady movement in the direction of ritualistic expansion; procedures that three centuries
ago would have called forth earnest protest are now accepted and interpreted in accordance
with Protestant ideas. Doubtless the temperament of a people has something to do with the amount
of ceremonial it favors in religious service.

+1061+. The history of ritual thus shows that it tends to grow in elaborateness and importance
as social forms become more elaborate and important--the mode of approaching the deity imitates
the mode of approaching human dignitaries, postures are borrowed from current etiquette.[1922]
Form was especially sought after under the old monarchies, Egyptian and Assyrian.[1923] The
exaggerated Oriental court etiquette, introduced into Roman life as early as the time of Diocletian,
was maintained and developed under the Byzantine emperors.[1924] These usages may have affected
the growth of the Greek and Roman Church liturgies.[1925] In modern China, under the imperial
government, divine worship was substantially identical in form with the worship of the emperor.
In some cases it may be doubtful in which direction the borrowing has been.

The expansion of liturgical forms has often been accompanied by the effort to interpret them
symbolically. Intelligent reflection has led to the conviction that forms without religious
meaning are valueless, and it has been easy, after ceremonies were established, to attach spiritual
definitions to their details. This relieves their materialism, and gives a certain realness
and force to religious feeling.

PRIESTS[1926]

+1062+. A priest is a person commissioned by the community or its head to conduct the sacrificial
service and related services connected with shrines. Such a person differs in two respects
from the religious official of the simplest times, the magician (shaman, or medicine man):
the latter acts in his own name and by his own authority, and the methods he employs are magical--they
are based on the belief that the supernatural Powers are subject to law and may be controlled
by one who knows this law; the priest acts in the name and by the authority of the community,
and his methods are dictated by the friendly social relation existing between the community
and the Powers. He differs, further, from those religious ministrants (chiefs of clans, fathers
of families, and other prominent men) who acted by virtue of their social or political positions
in that his functions are solely religious and are in that regard distinct from his civil position.
He represents a differentiation of functions in an orderly nonmagical religious society. Such
an office can arise only under a tolerably well-organized civil government and a fairly well-defined
sacrificial ritual. It is doubtless a slow growth, and there may be, in a community, a period
of transition from one grade of religious ministers to another when the distinction between
the priest and the magician or between the priest and the headman is hardly recognizable; the
distinction comes, however, to be well marked, and then indicates an important turning-point
in religious history. It may be, also, that at certain times under certain circumstances the
civil ruler may have priestly functions or the priest may exercise civil authority; but these
exceptional cases do not affect the specific character of the sacerdotal office.

+1063+. The priest is a sacred person, and is affected by all the conditions pertaining to
the conception of "sacred." In early times he has to be guarded against contamination by impure
or common (profane) things, and care has to be taken that his quality of sacredness be not
injuriously communicated to other persons or to any object.[1927] The parts of his person,
such as hair and nail-parings, must not be touched by common folk. The dress worn by him when
performing his sacred duties must be changed when he comes out to mix with the people. He must
keep his body clean, and the food that he may or may not eat is determined by custom or by
law. His sexual relations are defined--sometimes he is forbidden to marry or to approach a
woman, sometimes the prohibition extends only to marriage with a certain sort of woman (a foreigner,
a widow, or a harlot). In some cases he is forbidden to engage in warfare or to shed human
blood;[1928] the ground of this prohibition was physical, not moral.[1929]

+1064+. Similar rules in regard to food, marriage, chastity applied to priestesses.[1930] Women
were often, in ancient times, the ministrants in the shrines of female deities--there was a
certain propriety in this arrangement; they were, however, in some cases attached to the service
of male deities.[1931] Their duties were in general of a secondary character: they rarely,
if ever, offered sacrifice;[1932] they were often in charge of the temple-music; the function
of soothsaying or of the interpretation of oracular sayings was sometimes assigned them. On
the other hand, female ministrants in temples, who were closely connected with temple duties,
were sometimes considered as wives of the god, and in some cases had sexual relations with
priests and worshipers, and became public prostitutes.[1933] This custom does not exist among
the lowest tribes, and it attained its largest development in some of the great civilized cults.
It seems not to have existed in Egypt.[1934] The consecrated maidens described in the Code
of Hammurabi appear to have been chaste and respected;[1935] the relation between these and
the harlots of the early Ishtar cult is not clear. A distinction may be made between priestesses
proper and maidens (hierodules) consecrated to such a deity as Aphrodite Pandemos; Solon's
erection of a temple to this goddess, which he supplied with women, may have been an attempt
to control the cult of the hetæræ. The thousand hierodules at Corinth[1936] were probably not
priestesses, and the same thing may be surmised to be true of the women devoted to the Semitic
prototype of Aphrodite, the Syrian Ashtart (Astarte), and to the Babylonian Ishtar.[1937]

+1065+. The origin of temple prostitution is not clear. In many cases (in Greece, Rome, Mexico,
Peru, and elsewhere) the consecrated women were required to be virgins and to remain chaste--this
higher conception is obviously the natural one in a civilized community in which the purity
of wives and daughters is strictly guarded. The old idea that sexual union was defiling may
have originated or strengthened the demand for chastity. The institution of the lower class
of women does not seem to have originated in a society in which this regard for purity is lacking,
for the hierodulic class is rarely if ever found in existing societies of this sort. The origin
of the class is not to be sought in a low valuation of woman, nor, on the other hand, is it
to be found in a desire to secure fruitfulness; fruitfulness is generally secured by offerings
to the gods, and though the belief has doubtless existed that it could be secured by commerce
with a supernatural being,[1938] there is no trace of this belief in the accounts of the lives
of the hierodules; the benefit would be restricted also to a small number of women. Probably
the custom was developed gradually and, like other such customs, had its ground in simple needs.
Women were required for the menial work of shrines.[1939] Once established in service, they
would acquire a certain sanctity and power by their relation to sacred things, and at the same
time would, as unattached, be sought by men. Their privileges and license would grow with time--they
would become an organized body, and would seek to increase their power. In the course of time
current religious ideas, low or high, would attach to them. They would be supposed to be in
the confidence of the deity, able to interpret his will, and endowed with the power of cursing
or blessing.[1940] With the growth of refinement they would be thought of as servants of the
deity, belonging to him and to no other, and might be described, as in fact they are sometimes
described, as his wives. The title "wife" would be compatible with purity in the higher religious
systems, but in the lower systems would be connected with license.

+1066+. Theories of the origin of religious prostitution. The license just referred to is a
part of a widespread custom of the prostitution of sacred persons, of which various explanations
have been offered.[1941] The existence of the custom is attested for the larger part of the
ancient civilized and half-civilized world, and for many more recent peoples. In old Babylonia,
Canaan, Syria, Phoenicia, Asia Minor, Armenia, Greece, and now in West Africa and India, we
find officially appointed "sacred" women a part of whose religious duty it was or is to offer
themselves to men.[1942] The service in ancient times was not regarded as degrading; on the
contrary, maidens of the noblest families were sometimes so dedicated, and the rôle of devotee
might be continued in a family for generations.[1943] Such service was sometimes a necessary
preliminary to marriage. This seems to be the case in the custom reported by Herodotus[1944]
that every native Babylonian woman had, once in her life, to sit in the temple of Mylitta (Ishtar)
and wait till a piece of money was thrown into her lap by a stranger, to whom she must then
submit herself--this duty to the goddess accomplished, she lived chastely. In Byblos a woman
who refused to sacrifice her hair to Ashtart on a certain festival day had to yield herself
to a stranger.[1945]

Official male prostitutes also there were in some ancient cults; but information about such
persons is scanty, and they seem not to have been numerous.[1946] The most definitely named
case is that of the Hebrew official class called kedeshim, that is, persons devoted to the
service of the deity and therefore sacred[1947] (as it is said in Zech. xiv, 20 ff., that bells
on horses and temple-vessels shall be sacred to Yahweh). These, together with the female devotees,
kedeshot ("prostitutes"), are denounced as abhorrent to Yahweh; both were features in the ritual
of the Jerusalem temple of the seventh century B.C. and apparently earlier.[1948] The female
devotee is called a "harlot" and the male a "dog" (kalb). The original religious sense of the
latter term is uncertain. In the Old Testament it occurs, in this sense, only in the passage
cited above. In a Phoenician inscription of Larnaca (in Cyprus)[1949] the plural of the word
designates a class of attendants in a temple of Ashtart, and there are proper names in which
the term is an element (and therefore an honorable title). It is not improbable that it meant
originally simply a devotee or minister of a god in a temple,[1950] the bad sense having been
attached to it in the Old Testament from the license sometimes practiced by such ministers.

The sentiment of chastity is a product of the highest civilization. In many savage and half-civilized
tribes the obligation on a woman to keep herself pure is not fully recognized, and in the case
of married women the opposition to unfaithfulness sometimes springs from the view that it is
a violation of the husband's right of property in the wife. In some ancient civilized communities
a god's right to a woman seems to have been taken for granted.[1951] Ordinary prostitution
seems to have existed in the world, in all grades of civilization, from the earliest times.
This attitude toward the custom being so widespread, it is not strange that it has established
itself in religious organizations.

Two types of organized religious prostitution have to be considered:[1952] there is the Babylonian
(Mylitta) type, in which every woman must thus yield herself before marriage; and there is
the attachment of a company of official public women to a temple permanently or for a considerable
time. The explanations that have been offered of these institutions fall into two classes,
one tracing their origin to some nonreligious custom, the other regarding them as originally
religious (these classes are, however, not necessarily mutually exclusive).

Secular explanations. It has been held that all such customs go back to a period of sexual
promiscuity,[1953] which has been modified in the course of ages. It is doubtful whether such
a period ever existed,[1954] but it is certain that prenuptial license has been common, and
this laxity may have prepared the way for organized prostitution. More particularly, reference
is made to puberty defloration ceremonies, when the girl is handed over to certain men no one
of whom can, by tribal rule, be her husband--that is, before marriage she becomes sexually
the property of the tribe through its regularly appointed representatives, and is thus prepared
for membership; then, it is added, at a later period, when religious service has been established,
the girl is given over or devoted not to the tribe but to the tribal god, in whose shrine she
must submit to defloration, in accordance with rules fixed from time to time. The act thus
becomes religious--it is a recognition of the sovereignty of the deity, and procures divine
favor. Such may be a possible explanation of the procedure in the temple of Mylitta and at
Byblos.[1955] But the meaning of the condition imposed at these places, namely, that the man
to whom the woman yields herself must be a stranger, is not clear. It is hardly probable that
an outsider was called on to perform what was regarded as a dangerous duty--a stranger would
not be likely to undertake what a tribesman feared to do.[1956] Nor is the power of a stranger
to confer benefits so well established that we can regard his presence as intended to bring
a blessing to the girl.[1957] More to the point, in one respect, is the conjecture that we
have here an attenuated survival of the exogamic rule--the girl must marry out of her social
group;[1958] the old social organization having disappeared, the "stranger" takes the place
of the original functionary, and the deity the place of the clan. This explanation has much
in its favor; but, as it is hardly possible to establish an historical connection between the
older and the later custom, it cannot be said to be certain, and the origin of the "stranger-feature"
remains obscure.

Religious explanation. Sacred prostitution is supposed by many writers to have sprung from
the cult of the goddess who represented the productive power of the earth[1959] (Mother Earth,
the Great Mother). While such a figure is found in many of the lower tribes, it is only among
civilized peoples, and particularly in Western Asia, that the cult acquired great importance.
By the side of the female figure there sometimes stands a male representative of fertility
(Tammuz by the side of Ishtar, Attis by the side of Kybele) who is regarded as the husband
or the lover of the goddess, but occupies a subordinate position. In early times the goddess
is represented as choosing her consorts at will, but this is merely an attribution to her of
a common custom of the period. All deities, male and female, might be and were appealed to
for increase of crops and children, but a Mother goddess would naturally be looked on as especially
potent in this regard. Prayer would be addressed to her, and that, with offerings, would be
sufficient to secure her aid; simply as patroness of fertility she would not demand prostitution
of her female worshipers--some special ground must be assumed for this custom, and it is held
that, as fertility was produced by the union of the goddess with her consort or her lovers,
this union must be imitated by the women who sought a blessing from her.[1960] The probability
of such a ground for sacred prostitution is not obvious. There are communities of temple-courtesans
(in West Africa and India) where such an idea does not exist. If the license was in imitation
of the goddess, this feature of her character requires explanation, and the natural explanation
is that such a figure is a product of a time of license. In the ancient world it was only in
Asia Minor and the adjacent Semitic territory that religious orgies and debauchery existed--they
seem to have been an inheritance from a savage age. Or, if the prostitution is explained as
a magical means of obtaining children,[1961] this also would go back to a religiously crude
period. Magical rites, many and of various sorts, have been performed by women desiring offspring--imitations
and simulations.[1962] But the giving up of the body is not imitation or simulation--it is
the procreative act itself.

Organized official sacred prostitution must be regarded as the outcome of a long period of
development. License, starting at a time when sexual passion was strong and continence was
not recognized as a duty or as desirable, found entrance into various social and religious
customs and institutions, accommodating itself in different places and periods to current ideas
of propriety. Appropriated by organized religion, it discarded here and there its more bestial
features, adopted more refined religious conceptions, its scope was gradually reduced, and
finally it vanished from religious usage. The objections urged to such a process of growth
are not conclusive.[1963] Explanations of communities of temple-courtesans and male prostitutes
and of customs affecting individual women are suggested above.[1964] Many influences, doubtless,
contributed to the final shaping of the institution, and we can hardly hope to account satisfactorily
for all details; but the known facts point to an emergence from savage conditions and a gradual
modification under the influence of ideas of morality and refinement.

+1067+. Organization and influence of the priesthood. In accordance with the law of natural
human growth the priests in most of the greater religions came to form an organized body, hierarchical
grades were established, many privileges were granted them, and they exercised great influence
over the people and in the government. In Egypt they were exempt from taxes and had a public
allowance of food; the temples at the capitals, Memphis and Thebes, became enormously wealthy;
the priests exercised judicial functions (but under the control of the king); they cultivated
astronomy and arithmetic, and controlled the general religious life of the people; as early
as the thirteenth century B.C. they had attained a political power with which the kings had
to reckon, and still earlier (ca. 1400 B.C.) the Theban priests were able to overthrow the
religious reformation introduced by Amenhotep IV; the departments of sacerdotal functions were
multiplied, and the high priest of the Theban Amon, whose office became hereditary, controlled
the religious organization of the whole land, set himself up as a rival of the Pharaoh in dignity,
and finally became the head of a sacerdotal theocracy.[1965]

+1068+. While the Babylonian and Assyrian priesthoods were not so highly organized as the Egyptian,
and never attained great political power, they were nevertheless very influential. Astronomy
and astrology, the interpretation of omens and portents, the science of magic and exorcisms,
the direction of the religious life of kings and people were in the hands of the priests; the
great temples were rich, there were various classes of temple-ministers, all well cared for,
and the chief priest of an important shrine was a person of great dignity and power. The interpretation
of sacrificial phenomena was made into a science by the priests, and, passing from them to
Greece and Italy, exerted a definite influence on the religious life of the whole Western world.[1966]

+1069+. The process of organizing the Hebrew priesthood began under David and Solomon, at first,
under Solomon (who favored the Zadok family), affecting only the Jerusalem temple. In the Northern
kingdom (established about 930 B.C.) there seems to have been a similar arrangement. As long
as the old royal governments lasted (the Northern kingdom fell in the year 722 B.C., the Southern
in 586) the priests were controlled by the kings. On the building of the Second Temple (516)
and the reorganization of the Judean community they became, under Persian rule, independent
of the civil government and finally, in the persons of the high-priests, the civil heads of
the Palestinian Jews. The Maccabean uprising resulted in the establishment of the Asmonean
priest-dynasty, in which the offices of civil ruler and religious leader were united. After
the fall of this dynasty (37 B.C.) the priestly party (the Sadducees, that is, the Zadokites),
forming an aristocracy, conservative of ritual and other older religious customs and ideas,
was engaged in a constant struggle with the democratic party (the Pharisees), which was hospitable
to the new religious ideas (resurrection, immortality, legalism). The latter party was favored
by the people, and with the destruction of the temple (70 A.D.) the priests disappeared from
history. From the beginning they appear to have been not only religious ministrants and guides
but also civil judges; their great work was the formulation of the religious law, as it appears
in the Pentateuch, and it is probable that the shrines (especially that of Jerusalem) were
centers of general literary activity. The national development turned, however, from sacerdotalism
to legalism--the later religious leaders were not priests but doctors of law (Scribes and Pharisees).

+1070+. In India the priests formed the highest caste, were the authors of the sacred books
(which they alone had the right to expound), conducted the most elaborate sacrificial ceremonies
that man has invented, and by ascetic observances, as was believed, sometimes became more powerful
than the gods.[1967] Ritual propriety was a dominant idea in India, and the influence of the
priesthood on the religious life of the people was correspondingly great. Priests did not attempt
to interfere in the civil government, but their religious instruction may sometimes have affected
the policy of civil rulers. On the other hand, the Hindu priesthood, by its poetical productions
and its metaphysical constructions, has become a permanent influence in the world.

+1071+. The early (pre-Zoroastrian) history of the Mazdean priesthood is obscure. In the Avestan
system, however, a great rôle is assigned the priests, as is evident from the vast number of
regulations concerning ceremonial purity, of which they had charge.[1968] It does not appear
that the early sacerdotal organization was elaborate or strict. There were various classes
of ministrants at every shrine, but they differed apparently rather in the nature of their
functions than in rank.

+1072+. The Greek priestly class had the democratic tone of the Greek people.[1969] There was
little general organization: every priest was attached to a particular deity except the Athenian
King Archon, who had charge of certain public religious ceremonies. The mutual independence
of the Greek States made the creation of a Hellenic sacerdotal head impossible. In Sparta the
priestly prerogatives of the king were long maintained; usually, however, there was a separation
of civil and religious functions. Generally in Greece priests were chosen by lot, or were elected
by the priestly bodies or by the people, or were appointed by kings or generals. They were
usually taken from good families, were held in honor, and were housed and fed at the public
expense (their food came largely from sacrificial offerings). It was required that they should
be citizens of the place where they officiated, and should be pure in body and of good conduct.
They seem to have been simply citizens set apart to conduct religious ceremonies, and their
influence on the general life was probably less than that of civil officers, poets, and philosophers.
Greek educated thought moved at a relatively early period from the conventional religious forms
toward philosophical conceptions of the relation between the divine and the human.[1970]

+1073+. The minute details of the Roman ritual might seem to give great importance to priests;[1971]
and the flamens (the ministers of particular deities) were of course indispensable in certain
sacrifices. But the organization of Roman society was not favorable to the development of specifically
sacerdotal influence. Religion was a department of State and family government. For the manifold
events of family life there were appropriate deities whose worship was conducted by the father
of the family. The title rex (like the Greek basileus), in some cases given to priests, was
a survival from the time when kings performed priestly functions. Later the consul was sometimes
the conductor of public religious ceremonies. There was hardly a religious office, except that
of the flamen, that might not be filled by a civilian. In the Augustan revival membership in
the College of the Arval Brothers was sought by distinguished citizens. It was thought desirable
that the Pontifex Maximus, the most influential of the priests, should be a jurist; and the
office was held by such men as Julius Cæsar and Augustus. The increase of temples and priests
by Augustus did not materially change the religious condition. The adoption of foreign cults
was accompanied by ideas that did not belong to the Roman religion proper. In general, if we
except the augurs, who represent the lowest form of the sacerdotal office, the priest was relatively
uninfluential in Rome.[1972]

+1074+. The minimum of priestly influence is found in the national religion of China, in which
there is no priestly class proper.[1973] In the worship of ancestors, which satisfies the daily
religious needs of the people, every householder and every civil official is a ministrant.
The great annual sacrifices to the heavenly bodies have been conducted till recently by the
emperor in person.[1974] Public religion is, in the strictest sense, a function of the State.
Society, according to the Chinese view, is competent to manage relations with the supernatural
Powers--it needs no special class of intermediaries. This thoroughgoing conception of civic
autonomy in religion connects itself with the supreme stress laid on conduct in the Confucian
system, which represents the final Chinese ideal of life:[1975] man constructs his own moral
life, and extrahuman Powers, while they may grant physical goods, are chiefly valued as incidents
in the good social life. The great speculative systems of thought, Confucianism and Taoism,
gradually gave rise to definite sacerdotal cults; but the priests of the Confucian temples
serve mainly to keep before the people the teaching of the Master, and the Taoist priests have
become largely practicers of magic and charlatans. Chinese religious practice remains essentially
nonsacerdotal.

+1075+. The Peruvian cult presents a remarkable example of a finely organized hierarchy closely
related to the civil government.[1976] The priests were chosen from the leading families; the
highpriest was second in dignity to the Inca only. The functions of the priests were strictly
religious; and as the masses of the people were devoted to the worship of local deities and
natural objects, it seems probable that the sacerdotal influence was merely that which belonged
to their supervision of the State religion. Details on this point are lacking.

Priests played a more prominent part in Mexico, entering, as they did, more into the life of
the people.[1977] On the one hand, the numerous human sacrifices, of which the priests had
complete control, kept the terrible aspect of religion constantly before the mind of the public;
and, on the other hand, the milder side of the cult (for the Mexican religion was composite)
brought the priests into intimate relations with adults and children. As the priests, apart
from their monstrous sacrificial functions, appear to have been intelligent and humane, it
is not unlikely that their general moral influence was good.

+1076+. The influence of the priesthood on religion (and on civilization so far as religion
has been an element of civilization) has been of a mixed character. On the one hand, while
not the sole representative of the idea of the divine government of the world (for soothsayers
and prophets equally represented this idea), it has stood for friendly everyday intercourse
between man and the deity, and has so far tended to bring about an equable and natural development
of the ordinary religious life; it was involved in the sacerdotal functions that the deity
might be placated by proper ceremonies, whence it followed that the priest, who knew the nature
of these ceremonies, was a benefactor, and, more generally, that man had his salvation in his
own hands. The business of the priest was to maintain the outward forms of religion, to order
and elaborate the ritual, to organize the whole cultus.[1978] This was a work that required
time and the coöperation of many minds. Priests were, in fact, naturally drawn together by
a common aim and common interests--with rare exceptions they lived in groups, formed societies
and colleges, had their traditions of policy, gathered wealth.[1979] For this reason they were
in general opposed to social changes--they were a conservative element in society, and in this
regard were the friends of peace.

+1077+. On another side they did good work; they were to some extent the guardians of morals.
In ancient popular life ethics was not separated from religion--religion adopted in general
the best moral ideas of its time and place and undertook to enforce obedience to the moral
law by divine sanctions. Priests announced, interpreted, and administered the law, which was
at once religious and ethical; they were teachers and judges, and this function of theirs was
of prime importance, particularly where good systems of popular education did not exist. Further,
as a leisured class they often turned to literary occupations; examples of their literary work
are found in India (poetry and philosophy), Babylonia (the history of Berossus), Palestine
(Old Testament Psalter, the works of Josephus). They offered a place of rest in the midst of
the continual warfare of ancient times.

+1078+. On the other hand, the priesthood has been generally conservative of the bad as well
as of the good. It has maintained customs and ideas that had ceased to be effective and true,
and in order to preserve them it has resorted to forced interpretations and has invented accounts
of their origin. It has thus in many cases been obscurantive and mendacious. It has tended
to make the essence of religion consist in outward observances, and has not infrequently degraded
the placation of the deity to a matter of bargaining--it has sold salvation for money. Priests
have not always escaped the danger that threatens all such corporations--that of sacrificing
public interests to the interests of the order. They have drifted naturally toward tyranny--the
enormous power put into their hands of regulating men's relations with the deity has led to
the attempt to regulate men's general thought, though in most of the great religions their
power in this regard has been partly controlled by the civil authority and by the general intelligence
of the community. When they have not been controlled, they have often succumbed to the temptations
that beset wealth; they have fallen into habits of luxury and debauchery.

+1079+. In a word the history of the priesthood has been like that of all bodies of men invested
with more or less arbitrary power. Its rôle has varied greatly in different places and at different
times. It has numbered in its ranks good men and bad, and has favored sometimes righteous,
sometimes unrighteous, causes. It is not possible to define its influence on religion further
than to say that it has been a natural element of the organization of religion, taking its
form and coloring from the various communities in which it has existed, embodying current ideas
and thus acting as a uniting and guiding force at a time when higher forces were lacking. It
has formed a transitional stage in the advance of religious thought toward better conceptions
of the relation of man to the deity.

+1080+. Islam has no priesthood, as it has no provision for atonement for sin except by the
righteous conduct of the individual; its cultic officials are preachers or leaders of prayer
(imams) in the mosque worship, and jurists or scholars (ulamas) who interpret the Koran. Judaism
has had no priests since the destruction of the Second Temple (70 A.D.); its synagogue services
are conducted by men trained in the study of the Bible or the Talmud (rabbis). In Christianity
the conception of a sacrificial ministrant has been retained in those churches (the Greek and
the Roman) which regard the eucharistic ceremony as a sacrifice. In the West the "presbyter"
(such is the New Testament term), the head of the congregation, took over the function of the
old priest as conductor of religious worship, and the word assumed the form "priest" in the
Latin and Teutonic languages. Among Protestants it is employed only in the Church of England,
in which, however, for the most part it has not the signification of 'sacrificer.'

WORSHIP

+1081+. Places of worship. The simplest form of early worship is the presentation of an offering
to the dead or to some extrahuman object of reverence. Such objects were held to exist in all
the world, in the sky, in rocks, streams, woods, caves, hills and mountains, and beneath the
surface of the earth; but it was chiefly in places of human resort that their presence was
expected. On some natural object or at some spot regarded as sacred, particularly where, it
was believed, a spirit or deity had manifested himself (in some remarkable natural phenomenon,
or in some piece of good fortune or ill fortune), the worshiper would place his offering. Sometimes
it was left to be disposed of by the deity or spirit or dead person at his pleasure. When the
offering was an animal, the blood, as food, was often applied to the grave or to the stone
or other object connected with a superhuman Power. In the course of time, it may be supposed,
it would be found convenient to erect a table or some other structure on which an animal could
be slain. Such a structure would be an altar. At first simple, a heap of stones, a pile of
dirt, a rough slab, it was gradually enlarged and ornamented,[1980] and itself, by association,
became sacred.

+1082+. Places where the presence of the divine was recognized were sacred. In them worship
was paid to the deity, and in the course of time they were marked off and guarded against profane
use. At first, however, they were merely spots on hills or in groves, by streams or in the
open country, needing no marks or watches, for they were known to all and were protected by
the reverence of the people.[1981] When the land came to be more thickly populated and religion
was better organized, such places were inclosed and committed to the care of official persons.
Well-known examples are the Greek temenos and the Arabian haram.[1982] Taboos and privileges
attached themselves to such inclosures. Precautions had to be taken on entering them; the shoes,
for example, were removed, lest they should absorb the odor of sanctity and thus become unfit
for everyday use. The spaces thus set apart were sometimes of considerable extent (as was and
is the case at Mecca); within them no war could be waged and no fugitive seized. Sometimes
they owed their sacredness to the buildings to which they were attached.

+1083+. The necessity for a house of worship arose very early.[1983] Where there was an image
or a symbol of a god, or where the apparatus of sacrifice or of other ritual practice was considerable,
buildings were required for the protection of these objects and perhaps for the convenience
of the ministrants. The development of buildings followed the course of all such arrangements--at
first rude, they became gradually elaborate and costly. In many savage tribes and in the earliest
period of civilized peoples (Egyptians, Hebrews, al.) a hut, constructed like those of the
people and therefore of a very simple character, houses the image or other representative of
the god. With the progress of artistic feeling and skill abodes of men grow into palaces and
abodes of deities into temples. It is on the temples that the greatest labor has been expended,
partly because they are the work of the whole community, partly because it has been believed
that the favor of the deity would be gained by making his dwelling-place magnificent.[1984]
The essential fact in a temple--its definition--is (in the lower cults) and was (in the great
ancient cults) that it is or was the home of a god, the specific place of approach to him,
with the possibility of face-to-face intercourse and a greater probability of gaining the blessings
desired. This local conception of the deity continued after larger ideas had arisen,[1985]
and is to be found at the present day in some Christian circles.

+1084+. Temples have tended to grow not only in beauty and magnificence but also in elaborateness
of interior arrangements and of connected structures. Anciently they were specifically places
of sacrifice--the abodes of gods to whom sacrifice was offered--and this function generally
determined their interior form. Sometimes they contained a single room in which stood an image
and an altar; this was the simplest architectural embodiment of the idea of divine sacredness.
But the progress of ritual forms was accompanied by the notion of grades of sanctity, and a
special sanctity was indicated by a special room, an adytum, an inner or most holy shrine;[1986]
where, as was often the case, gradations in priestly rank existed, only the highest priest
could enter the adytum. For the implements of service and for the priests there were buildings
attached to the temple. The people gathered in courts adjoining the sacred structure; where
ritual exactness was carried very far (as in Ezekiel's plan and in Herod's temple), there were
gradations in the courts also.[1987] Usually an altar stood in one of the courts. The sacredness
of the sanctuary communicated itself to the vessels and other implements of the sacrificial
service.

+1085+. Temples, like sacred inclosures and altars, were often asylums, and doubtless in many
cases served to protect innocent persons. The privilege, however, was often abused, and it
became necessary in Greece and Rome to restrain it.[1988]

+1086+. As a factor in the development of art the temple has been important. It has called
forth the best architectural skill of man, and the statues that often adorned sacred buildings
have stimulated sculpture. It does not appear that symbolism entered into the idea of ancient
temples.[1989] The Babylonian and Assyrian zikkurat (or ziggurat) was a staged structure (resembling
in this regard the Egyptian pyramid), supposed by many scholars to be an imitation of the mountains
whence the predecessors of the Semites in Babylonia came, and on which they worshiped;[1990]
if this be so, there is no attempt at pointing upward to the abode of the gods. Nor is there
any trace elsewhere in the ancient world of a symbolic significance attached to temples beyond
the distinction of place, referred to above, between the sacred and the profane and between
different degrees of sacredness. The form of temples appears to have been determined by imitation
of early nonreligious usage or by considerations of convenience;[1991] the ziggurat may have
been suggested by a high place, the adytum by a cave, but most temples were probably copies
of ordinary human dwellings or civic buildings (as in late Latin, basilica is used in the sense
of 'cathedral').

As abodes of priests temples were the centers of all priestly activities in the development
of ritual and literature. Being strong and well guarded they were often used by kings as treasure-houses;
but they were stripped of their wealth by native kings in times of need, and were freely plundered
by conquerors.

+1087+. Forms of worship. The ancient forms of divine worship, as is remarked above,[1992]
follow in a general way the modes of approaching human potentates. Ceremonies of worship reached
a high degree of elaboration in the great religions, Egyptian, Babylonian-Assyrian, Hebrew,
Hindu, Greek, Roman.[1993] The central fact was the presentation of the offering, and with
this came to be connected prayers and hymns, ceremonies of purification, vows, imprecations,
exorcisms, oracles; the festivals also were religious functions. Prayer is spoken of below.[1994]
Hymns sometimes consisted of or contained petitions, more generally were laudations of the
power and benefactions of a deity. For poetical charm the first place is to be assigned to
the Egyptian, Hebrew, and Hindu hymns. The religious ideas expressed in such compositions varied
with time and place, but they show a general tendency toward a monolatrous or henotheistic
point of view and toward higher ethical and spiritual feeling. Many of the Egyptian hymns seem
to be substantially monotheistic, and the same thing is true of the Babylonian, the Assyrian,
and the Vedic. The Babylonian hymns so far recovered (belonging in their present form mostly
to the seventh century B.C.) are chiefly penitential[1995] and show a close resemblance to
some Hebrew psalms. In the Veda traces of philosophical thought, pantheistic and other, are
not lacking. The poems of the Old Testament Psalter vary greatly in breadth and elevation of
thought--some, dealing generally with national affairs (occasionally with individual experiences),
are narrow and ethically low; others show exalted conceptions of the deity and fine moral feeling.
The Avestan ritual is concerned largely with physical details, but is not lacking in a good
ethical standard; the Gathas, particularly, though not free from national coloring, give a
noteworthy picture of the government of the world according to moral law. Of Greek ritual hymns
we have few remains, and these are of no great interest.

+1088+. Everywhere the temple-hymns, as is natural, deal chiefly with the desires and hopes
of the worshiper, and often do not rise above mere egoism. Their object is to secure blessing,
and the blessing is often, perhaps generally, of a nonmoral character--wealth, children, triumph
over enemies. Desire for moral purity appears in some Hebrew hymns, and perhaps in some Babylonian.
Of the modes of presenting liturgical poems to the deity we have few details. In the Second
Temple at Jerusalem there were choruses of ministrants (Levites), and some of the titles of
the psalms contain what seem to be names of musical instruments and melodies; but of this temple-music
nothing further is known than that it was sometimes sung antiphonally, but without harmony.[1996]
In some parts of Greece boys were trained to render hymns musically in the daily service and
on special occasions. The general character of old Greek music is indicated in the Delphian
hymn to Apollo discovered in 1893;[1997] the melody is simple but impressive--there is no harmony.

+1089+. The temple-music doubtless tended to heighten devotional feeling among the worshipers,
and possibly a similar popular effect was produced by the festivals that were common in the
ancient world. Here the whole population took part, there were religious ceremonies, and the
consciousness of the presence of the deity was made more distinct not only by visible and tangible
representations, but often also by the fact that these occasions were connected in current
myths and legends with histories of gods and ancient national experiences. Processions and
pilgrimages brought the people to sacred places to which stories were attached, and the religious
life became a series of object lessons. The Greek and Roman calendars contain a great number
of feast days, each assigned to some god.[1998] The Hebrews at a comparatively early date (eighth
or ninth century B.C.) connected their great festivals with remote national events;[1999] examples
of festivals attached to recent historical events are Purim,[2000] the Feast of Dedication
established in commemoration of the rededication of the temple by Judas Maccabæus (December,
165 B.C.) after the Syrian profanation,[2001] and the "Day of Nicanor" commemorating the victory
of Judas over that general (March, 161 B.C.).[2002] In the Hindu festivals (New Year's Day
and during the spring months) stories of gods formed a prominent feature.[2003] The Greek Genesia,
the season of mourning for the dead, came to be connected with the victory of Marathon.[2004]

All such celebrations tend to become seasons of merrymaking, and the religious element in them
then receives less and less attention.[2005] This remark holds of the festivals that Christianity
took over from the old religions, adapting them to the new conditions.[2006] Such occasions
lose their distinctive religious significance in proportion as the events they commemorate
recede into the past and become less and less distinct. It is in very early times, when they
are thought of as representing realities, that they are religiously effective; in later times
they give way to more reflective forms of devotion.

+1090+. Vows, blessings, and curses may be considered to belong to worship in the regard that
they contain petitions to the deity; the curse or the blessing, however, sometimes rested on
a baldly objective conception of the power of words, sometimes was held to be magical: once
uttered, the word, beneficent or maleficent, went to its object, person or thing, did its work,
and could not be recalled; its effect could be set aside only by an utterance in the opposite
direction.[2007] A magician, by the power resident in him, could fix a curse or a blessing
on man or thing. An exorcism, also, might be effected by magic or by invoking the aid of a
deity; an evil spirit is a supernatural Power and has to be considered--one does not worship
such a being, but one may employ religious means to circumvent him. Bad magic may be overcome
by good magic, and a deity, hostile and maleficent under certain circumstances, may be placated
by offerings. It is not always easy to draw the line between worship proper and modes of defense
against injurious Powers. But in general true worship implies friendly relations between human
and superhuman persons.

+1091+. Idols. From an early time men have desired to have visible representatives of the supernatural.
So long as natural objects, trees, stones, mountains, were regarded as themselves divine or
as the abodes of spirits, so long as a loose social organization and the absence of definite
family life led men to spend their lives in the open air, there was no need of artificial forms
of the Powers. Such a need arose inevitably, however, under more advanced social conditions.
Exactly at what stage men began to make images it is hardly possible to say,--the process was
begun at different stages in different regions,--but it appears that in general it was synchronous
with some fairly good form of social organization. Yet, where such forms exist, there are differences
in the use of images. These are found--to take the lower peoples--in Melanesia and the Northern
Pacific Ocean, in the northern part of South America, in North America apparently only among
the Eastern Redmen (as the Lenâpé or Delawares),[2008] and on the western coast of Africa (Ashanti,
Dahomi, Yoruba). Where the cult of beasts (whether totemic or not) is a living one, idolatry
does not find a place; it is only when communities have begun to be agricultural that they
have artificial forms of gods; that is, idolatry comes in with the stage of culture connected
with the agricultural life.[2009]

The development in the form of images is familiar. The rude and, to modern eyes, grotesque
idols of the lower peoples gradually pass into the more finished forms of the civilized nations.[2010]
Really artistic forms, however, were produced only by some Semites (Babylonians and Assyrians)
and in the Hellenic and Græco-Roman worlds. In Central America, Mexico, and Peru images are
anthropomorphic but lacking in symmetry and grace. Hindu idols are often composite and grotesque,
sometimes (especially images of Buddha) highly impressive.

+1092+. The Hebrews appear to have had no anthropomorphic images of their national deity. Down
to a late period there was a cult of household gods,[2011] and of these, probably, there were
images in private houses and in shrines, whether anthropomorphic or not is uncertain. In Solomon's
temple (and in Ezekiel's proposed plan) figures of cherubs (originally divine beings) stood
on the walls of the main room and guarded the ark in the adytum; they were winged creatures,
the forms derived immediately from Phoenicia, ultimately from Babylonia; they appear only in
the great public cult, probably did not enter into the religious life of the people at large,
and there is no evidence that they ever received divine worship.[2012] The Hebrews had no plastic
art of their own, seem to have had small disposition in their earlier history to make images,
and later such forms were excluded by the antagonism of the prophets to foreign cults and by
refined ideas of the deity.[2013] The absence of images in the Zoroastrian cult may be accounted
for in a similar way--from early lack of artistic impulse and later elevated conceptions. In
China there are images in household worship, but none in the great imperial religious ceremonies.[2014]
Though the Koran does not expressly forbid the cult of images, yet, as the old Arabian cults
denounced by the prophet were all idolatrous, images were identified with false religion (polytheism)
and have been avoided by the Moslems, whose strict monotheism left no place for them.

+1093+. Images were credited in half-civilized times with a certain personality, were flogged
or destroyed when they failed to do what was expected of them, or were bound in order to prevent
their going away.[2015] In such cases the conception of the power of these objects was probably
a confused one; though they were known to be inanimate pieces of wood or stone or other material,
it was believed that they were inhabited by spirits or deities, and it was held that in some
undefined way the power of the divine agent was transferred to its physical incasement--the
two were practically identified. This sort of conception soon passed away and was succeeded
by a symbolical interpretation. Whatever the ultimate origin of the Egyptian, Babylonian, and
Hindu divine and semi-divine forms (which are sometimes monstrous),[2016] it is probable that
for the more thoughtful worshipers they represented divine powers and functions. Uncouth shapes
may be softened or transformed by familiarity, and by association with higher ideas--things
in themselves repulsive may become vehicles of devotion.[2017] In all religious worship objects
associated with pious acts acquire sanctity and beauty.

+1094+. That idolatry in ancient times was not a wholly bad feature of worship is shown by
the excellence of the great religions in which it was practiced. Its general function was to
make the deity more real to the worshiper, to make the latter more sharply conscious of the
divine presence, to fix the attention, and so far to further a real communion. On the other
hand, it tended to produce a low physical conception of the divine person, and to distract
the mind of the worshiper from the ethical side of worship. Its moral effect was dependent
on the man's character and thought. When the image was regarded as the symbol of an ethically
good Power, it was a reënforcement of pure religious feeling; when it was regarded as in itself
a source of physical benefit, it was a degrading influence. This difference of effect exists
in those Christian bodies that include images and pictures of the deity and of saints in their
apparatus of worship.

CHURCHES

+1095+. The history of the social organization of religion is the history of the growth of
churches--voluntary associations for worship; it is toward the Church that society has hitherto
moved.[2018] Every ancient community may be said to be an incipient church in the sense that
it contains the germs of the later ecclesiastical development. But this later form exists in
such communities only in germ--the most ancient worship was communal, an affair of clan, tribe,
or State. Men were born into their religious faith and could no more change it, or think of
changing it, than they could change, or think of changing, their language or any other inheritance.
It was inevitable, however, that there should be a growth of individualism--instinct impelled
men to think for themselves in religion as in all other things. Religion was a part of the
general social movement, affected by all other parts of that movement. Independence of thought
led to social aggregations, the members of which were drawn together by similarity of ideas
and aspirations. This is the familiar history of social movements, and that in religion such
movements have been continuous will be evident from a brief statement of the historical facts.

+1096+. Savage secret societies. These societies are referred to above;[2019] here we have
only to notice their germinal ecclesiastical character. They represent a partial break-up of
tribal communal worship by assigning special duties and granting special privileges to certain
initiated persons. Totemic groups are sometimes (as in Central Australia) charged with specific
functions in the tribal life; but membership in such groups is a matter of birth, and they
everywhere tend to give way to secret societies. These latter often have charge of certain
religious rites, and from their secret proceedings and from a knowledge of their secret lore
the rest of the tribe are excluded.

The extent to which religious organization and influence have been carried is illustrated by
the history of the Polynesian Areoi, the most remarkable of such fraternities.[2020] The Areoi
created 'mysteries,' with an elaborate ritual whose effectiveness was dependent on absolute
accuracy in words; its members were chosen without regard to tribal position and entered of
their own free will; it was a voluntary association and made its own religious laws. It was
restricted (as all such associations are) by the necessity of paying regard to existing customs,
but within such limits it was independent of the tribe, and its members were held to be entitled
to special honors and enjoyments in this life and the next (a crude conception of salvation).
It was essentially a church, and other societies, in Polynesia, Africa, and North America,
approached this position more or less nearly. They all tended to become tyrannical--their social
influence enabled them to impose their authority on the tribe, and they did not hesitate to
employ violence in asserting their rights.[2021] To foreign influence they were naturally hostile,
since this generally diminished their power. Founded as they are on savage ideas they have
disappeared, or are disappearing, before foreign civilizations. In their best form they doubtless
gave a certain unity to communities and were thus an element of order.

+1097+. Greek mysteries. In Greece dissatisfaction with the current cults expressed itself
in various ways, largely through poets and philosophers, who asserted themselves, indeed, individually,
but showed no power of organization. The task of organizing religious opinion fell to that
new direction of thought (vaguely called "Orphic"[2022]) which, while it gave prominence to
spiritual ideas and moral ideals, introduced a lively emotional element into worship. In the
Eleusinian and other mysteries this element was both external (dramatic representations, songs,
processions, ceremonies of initiation) and internal (the hope of salvation). Without breaking
with the popular religious forms the mysteries constructed their own forms, chose their members,
and created a religious imperium in imperio. They were voluntary associations for worship,
ignored distinctions of social rank, had great ideas and impressive rituals--apparently all
the elements necessary to the establishment of churches or of a national church. Yet they faded
gradually away, and perished finally without leaving any definite impression, as it seemed,
on Greece or the world without.[2023]

+1098+. The reasons of their failure are not far to seek. They did not reach the Hellenic mind
for the reason that they were of foreign origin and much in them was opposed to the genius
of the Hellenic religion. Even the Pythagorean reform movement of Southern Italy, with its
strenuous moral culture of the individual, seems to have had a foreign (Asiatic) coloring.
It was, indeed, at one with the better Greek thought of the time (sixth century B.C. and later)
in its elevated conception of the deity and of worship, but with this it combined ascetic observances
and, apparently, mystical ideas; it established what may be called a church, which had a great
vogue in Southern Italy for several centuries but did not, as an organization, penetrate into
Greece. It attracted some thoughtful men, but was too calm and restrained for the masses.[2024]

+1099+. It was different with the Dionysiac cult, whose wildness made it popular; of foreign
origin, it was in time partly Hellenized and in Athens took its place in the regular national
worship; some of its foreign features were taken up in the mysteries. These latter, with their
enthusiasm and their half-barbaric ceremonies, excited the contempt of most of the educated
class.[2025] These cults were Asiatic--not Semitic--but probably a product of a non-Hellenic
population of Asia Minor (Phrygia and other regions), developed during a period the history
of which is obscure.

+1100+. The Semites seem to have produced no mysteries--there is no record of such cults in
Babylonia, Syria, Phoenicia, the Hebrew territory, or Arabia; Semitic religion was objective,
simple, nonmystical.[2026] The Syrian cult of Tammuz (Adonis), which was adopted by Hebrews
in the sixth century B.C. (Ezek. viii, 14), was an old folk-ceremony, not a mystery; it is
allied to the Attis ceremonies of Asia Minor and to the mourning ceremony mentioned in Judges
xi, 40 (mourning for a dead deity, but there referred to Jephthah's daughter).

+1101+. The Greek mysteries, then, derived their orgiastic side partly from Thrace, partly
from Asia Minor. They chiefly attracted the lower classes and particularly slaves, for they
offered individual independence in religion, freedom from the sense of social inferiority,
and hope for the life to come. Thus they did not appeal to the Hellenic spirit, and did not,
as organizations, survive the political decadence of the Greek States. But it is probable that
their effects survived in the recognition of the possibility of religious worship apart from
the traditional cults, and, more generally, in contributing to the establishment of the principle
of individualism in religion. An historical connection between the Greek mysteries and the
later individualistic cults is, indeed, not probable. Cumont believes that Mithraism did not
imitate the organization of the Greek secret societies.[2027] The New Testament use of the
term 'mystery' in the sense of 'esoteric doctrine'[2028] may have come from the Asian cult;
the Mithraic worship was practiced in Tarsus, the native city of the Apostle Paul, in the first
century of our era. However this may be, it seems probable that the conception of a church
existed in the Græco-Roman world before the beginning of our era, and that its existence was
due in part to the Greek mysteries, whose members were scattered throughout the empire of Alexander.

+1102+. The philosophical systems that arose in Asia and Europe concurrently with the Greek
mysteries did not found ecclesiastical organizations. The disciples of philosophers formed
schools, and the adherents of each school constituted a group the members of which were united
one with another by the bond of a common intellectual aim and a common conception of life and
of the world; and there was also a scientific union between the various groups, the fundamental
methods of investigation and lines of thought being the same everywhere. But the object of
thought was the discovery of truth by human reason, not the quest of salvation by worship of
the divine. The emotional element essential to the formation of a church was wanting, and where
philosophical systems adopted devotional forms these were not the creation of philosophy but
were borrowed from current cults. They sought happiness, but not through religious ritual.
They did not always formally discard or condemn existing cults, but they ignored them as means
of salvation; they sometimes recognized traditional gods and forms of worship, but interpreted
them in accordance with their own ideas.

+1103+. In India the Upanishads practically abolished the national pantheon and the old Brahmanic
ritual--knowledge, they taught, was the key to bliss, and the knowledge was not that of the
Veda, it came by reflection; emancipation from earthly bonds, absorption into the Infinite,
was the goal of effort, but the effort was individualistic and led to no devotional organization.
Ascetic observances, as a means of attaining perfection, were an inheritance from popular Brahmanism.[2029]
In China Taoism, originally a system of thought (based on the conception of all-controlling
order) that appealed only to a certain class of philosophic minds, became a religion by borrowing
crude ideas and sensational methods from a debased form of Buddhism and other sources.[2030]
Confucius steadily declined to teach anything about divine worship; Confucianism remained merely
an ethical system, dealing only with the present life, until its founder, with disregard of
his teaching, was divinized.

+1104+. Many of the Greek philosophers, from Socrates and Plato on, were definitely (some of
them warmly) religious, but their religion was chiefly valued as an aid to ethical life, and
it did not respond to the demand for communal worship. The Platonic and Stoic conceptions of
the deity were pure, but they remained individualistic--salvation was the creation of the man
himself. The noble hymn of Cleanthes to Zeus[2031] and the fine religious morality of Marcus
Aurelius led to no church organization. The attempted combination of Platonism and Judaism
by Philo was equally resultless. Neo-Platonism also, though it had enthusiasm and some sense
of brotherhood, showed itself unable to produce a church. Plotinus, indeed, proposed to the
Emperor Gallienus the establishment in Campania of a city of philosophers, a Platonopolis,
in which the ideal life should be lived, but the proposal came to nothing.[2032] The Neo-Platonic
union with the deity was too vague a conception to bring about communal worship, and the deity
had no definite rôle in securing the salvation of men.

+1105+. Thus, in the period beginning about the sixth century B.C. and extending into the Christian
era, all over the civilized world attempts were being made to reconstruct life by ethical and
philosophical systems, by ascetic observances, and by mysteries. These attempts bear witness
to the prevailing sense of the insufficiency of current schemes of life. They differ according
to differences of place and time, but agree in the search after something better; this better
thing was always ethical and in most cases religious. Their failure to construct effective
organizations was due to the deficiencies pointed out above.

+1106+. Buddhism and Jainism. The first churches produced by civilized men arose in India in
the sixth century B.C. out of the bosom of Brahmanism, whose failure to establish a church
was due in part to its dependence on philosophical speculation. Of the protests against the
Brahmanic orthodoxy the most important were Buddhism and Jainism.[2033] Buddhism discarded
philosophy and asceticism, and came forward with a plan of salvation that was intelligible
to all.[2034] Disciples gathered about the Master and he became the object of enthusiastic
devotion. All complete churches have owed their origin each to a single founder; this is due
to the fact that the insight and constructive genius of the founder have chosen out of the
mass of the existing thought those broad principles that the times demanded and have presented
them in incisive form and with freshness and enthusiasm.[2035] Buddha's followers quickly formed
themselves into associations, the entrance into which was by free choice. As his doctrine of
salvation was nontheistic, so his church was nontheistic, but not therefore nonreligious. The
ecclesiastical organization was simple, but effective. The original Buddhism has been degraded,
especially in Tibet, China, and Korea, but the church form remains everywhere more or less
recognizable.[2036]

+1107+. Jainism, while differing from its contemporary, Buddhism, in its metaphysical dualism
and its asceticism, agreed with it practically in its method of salvation from the ills of
life. It established a nontheistic church which has had experiences (polytheistic and other)
like those of Buddhism. Historically it is less important than the latter; it still has a considerable
following, but it has never passed out of India. Apparently its local features, metaphysical
and ascetic, have impeded its progress--it lacks the simplicity of Buddhism.

+1108+. Judaism. Judaism stands on the border line--it was a cult that approached the position
of a church, yet failed to reach it. Its line of movement differed in toto from those described
above. It had no philosophy, no asceticism, no secret societies, and it did not rely on its
ethical code. It was essentially religious, in theory a theocracy, in form a national cult.
The steps by which the old polytheistic Israelite nation passed into the monotheistic Judaism
can be traced historically, but the impulse to the movement was a part of the genius of the
people and cannot be further explained. The leaders of the small body of people that gathered
at Jerusalem in the sixth century, after the break-up of the year 586, were animated by a patriotic
devotion to the national deity; without political autonomy, merely a province of the Persian
empire, the sole interests possible for the people were racial and religious, and these isolated
them from the neighboring peoples. Those who remained in Babylonia (where they were prosperous
and comfortable) were similarly isolated, devoted themselves to their own development, and
their religious attitude was the same as that of the Palestinian community. Distance from the
temple led to gatherings in various places for worship (synagogues).

The Jews thus became a nation organized under religious law, with an institution devoted to
voluntary communal worship, and offering salvation, at first for this life only, but later
(from the second century B.C. onward) for the future life also--these were elements of a church.
But in two points this cult fell short of the complete church idea: the business of a church
is wholly and solely religious, and the Jewish nation was organized not only for religion,
but also for commerce, politics, and war;[2037] and the synagogue and the temple-service were
not free to all the world--only Jews and proselytes[2038] might take part in them. Any religious
body, it is true, may properly define the conditions of entrance into it; but here the restriction
was national--the synagogal cult, individualistic and simply devotional as it purported to
be, was a part of the national system, and its membership depended almost exclusively on the
accident of birth. Proselytes, indeed, formed an exception--they came in of their own choice--but
they were numerically not important and did not affect the general character of the cult.[2039]
The Jews came as near the ideal of a voluntary religious association as was then possible under
the hampering conditions of a racial organization and peculiar national customs. Their genius
for the organization of public religion appears in the fact that the form of communal worship
devised by them was adopted by Christianity and Islam, and in its general outline still exists
in the Christian and Moslem worlds.

+1109+. Zoroastrianism resembled Judaism in its later practical monotheism and its elaborate
ritual, but was more isolated and less advanced in the formation of assemblies for voluntary
worship. Its pre-Sassanian period produced no church, only a national cult, which was adopted
by the Parthians and others in debased form, but otherwise did not attract outsiders. On a
sect that arose in Persia in Sassanian times see below.[2040]

+1110+. Christianity. The teaching of Jesus was directed toward a purification of the existing
cult, the elimination of mechanical views, and the emphasizing of spiritual and ethical ideals.[2041]
There is no indication that he purposed founding a separate organization.[2042] But, after
his death, his disciples were drawn together by their relation to him, particularly when the
new congregation became predominantly Græco-Roman. For its administration the synagogue was
the model--from it were taken the titles and functions of some of its officers and the method
of conducting public service.[2043] But the new ekklesia, the church, followed its own lines
and speedily created a new cult. Its fundamental conception was salvation in the future through
Jesus of Nazareth, the Christ. In the beginning it was thoroughly individualistic and voluntary.
It had no connection with the State, was not a religio licita; its adherents joined it solely
out of preference for its doctrines; its activity was wholly religious. But this ideal constitution
of a church was not long maintained. The introduction of infant baptism (toward the end of
the second century) and the adoption of Christianity as the religion of the State by Constantine
went far to make membership in the Church an accident of birth or of political position; in
this regard Imperial and Medieval Christianity did not differ from the old national religions--it
was a religion but not a church. At the present day in the greater part of Christendom one's
ecclesiastical position is inherited precisely as the ancient clansman inherited his special
cult.[2044] The word "church" has largely lost its early signification of voluntary religious
association, and has come to mean any Christian organization, or, by further extension, any
religious body.

+1111+. The secularization of the Church, the failure to discriminate between its function
and that of the State, is an inheritance from Roman Imperialism, which in its turn was derived
from the primitive clan constitution of society in which the individual had no standing apart
from the community. From the Roman Empire it passed to Medieval Europe, and it has survived
in the Christian world by force of inertia. It is, however, not universal in Christendom (there
are religious bodies in which individual freedom of choice is fully recognized), and in some
cases where it exists formally or theoretically it is practically ignored. Notwithstanding
departures from the ideal the services of the Church often represent voluntary worship; such
worship, however, has been the rule in all religions from the earliest times to the present
day and does not in itself distinguish Christianity from any other religion.

+1112+. The word "church" meant at first a local Christian congregation, but was enlarged so
as to designate the whole body of Christians. In this body various tendencies of thought showed
themselves from time to time, and new organizations were formed that constituted new churches
in the sense that they had their own theological dogmas, ritual, and conditions of membership.
Most of them had brief careers and offer nothing of interest for the history of the development
of the church-idea. Gnosticism was a serious and noteworthy attempt to bridge over the gap
between a good supreme God and an evil world, and was in form a church, but its philosophical
and mystical sides had so much that was fanciful and grotesque or ethically dangerous that
it did not commend itself to the mass, and soon ceased to exist as a separate organization,
though its echoes long continued to be heard in certain Christian groups.[2045]

+1113+. Cults of Mithra and Isis. The Mithraic communities were wholly voluntary associations,
without distinctions of birth or social position, were recognized by the State, but received
no pecuniary aid from it and had no official connection with it. Perhaps this independence
helped to nourish the enthusiasm that carried Mithraism from one end of the Roman Empire to
the other; a church appears to flourish most on the religious side when it confines itself
to religion. A more important fact was that Mithraism was a religion of redemption. It does
not appear that there was any general organization of the Mithraic associations; each of these
was local, probably small, had its own set of officers, and managed its own affairs.[2046]
It was thus free from some of the perils that beset Christianity. It is not improbable that
some of its liturgical forms were adopted by the Christian Church, but it seems itself not
to have borrowed from the latter. Its weakness was its semibarbarous ritual and its polytheism;
it yielded of necessity to the simpler and loftier forms of Christianity.

+1114+. The cult of Isis, in spite of its ethically high character and its impressive ceremonies
of initiation (as described by Apuleius[2047]), did not give rise to associations like the
Mithraic. It belongs to the mysteries, but had not their organization of meetings and ritual,
had no brotherhoods (except those whose bond of union was devotion to this cult) and no general
organization embracing the Empire. The reason for its failure in this regard appears to lie
in its lack of definiteness in certain important points: it was in a sense monotheistic, since
the goddess was called the supreme controller of the world of external nature and of men, but
its monotheism was clouded by its connection with the old national cults and by current theological
speculations--for Apuleius, it would seem, Isis was rather a name for a vague Power in nature
than for a well-defined divine person, and particularly it offered no clear picture of the
future and no clear hope of moral redemption, two things that were then necessary to the success
of any system that aspired to supplant the popular faiths.[2048] Such lacks as these appear
in the cult of Sarapis also, which never developed the characteristics of a church.

+1115+. Manichæism. Of the religious movements that sprang from the contact of Christianity
with the East Manichæism was the most important on account of its great vitality. It possessed
all the elements of a church, voluntary membership, independence of the State (it was always
persecuted by the State), and the claim to a divine revelation of salvation. Like Buddhism,
Jainism, and Christianity, it owed its origin to a single founder. Its plan of organization
and its ethical standards were good. Like Mithraism its basis was Persian (its rise was synchronous
with the Sassanian revival of Mazdaism), but the two went different ways: the former laid stress
on mystical ceremonies, the latter on moral and theological conceptions. The vogue that Manichæism
enjoyed was due, apparently, to its eclectic character: adopting the Persian dualism, it modified
and expounded this by a Gnostic doctrine of æons, which was intended to harmonize the goodness
of God and the existence of evil, and it added the figure of the highest æon, Christ, the savior
of men. On the other hand, its involved and fantastic machinery led to its downfall.

+1116+. Two theocratic bodies that failed to reach the full church form are Islam and the Peruvian
cult of the sun. The Islamic constitution is based on a sacred book, its theology and its form
of public worship are borrowed from Christianity and Judaism, its private worship is individualistic,
and it offers paradise to the faithful. But Islam is in essence a State religion rather than
a church. Its populations belong to it by descent; its head is the Calif (now the Sultan of
Turkey). Its diffusion, though due in certain cases to the superiority of its ideas and the
simplicity of its customs,[2049] has yet come largely (as in Egypt, Syria and Palestine, Persia,
and North Africa) from social and political pressure--in some cases it has been adopted by
whole nations at a blow; Mohammed forced all the people of Arabia to accept it. Individual
choice recedes into the background, except (as in Judaism) in the case of proselytes. Its conception
of sin and salvation are largely external. It bears a great resemblance to the Judaism of the
Hasmonean dynasty, a national cult with a priest-sovereign at its head.

Within Islam there have arisen organizations that imitate the form of a church in certain respects;
such were the Morabits (Almoravides) and the Mohads (Almohades),[2050] whose bond of union
was in part theological, and such are the great fraternities in Africa and Asia, which are
devoted, among other things, to religious work, and have elaborate organizations and ceremonies
of reception.[2051] But these are all largely political and military. The Ismalic movement
(from ca. 900 A.D. on), the central doctrine of which was the incarnation of God in certain
men and finally in the Mahdi, was not Islamic and not Semitic; with a nominal acceptance of
the Koran, it was in fact a mixture of Persian and Buddhistic ideas; from it came the Fatimide
califate of Egypt, and from this (ca. 1000 A.D.) the Druse sect, which began as a church, but
has become merely a local religion.[2052]

+1117+. It was in Peru that the most thoroughgoing identification of religion with the State
was effected.[2053] In the old national religions the individual followed the custom of his
country; in Peru the State, in the person of the Inca, determined every person's religious
position and duties. If Islam resembles Maccabean Judaism, the Peruvian organization resembled
some forms of Medieval Christianity. The Inca was a Pope, only with more power than the Christian
Pope, since he acted on every individual. The general ethical standard was good, in spite of
some survivals of savagery, but there was a complete negation of individual freedom in religion.[2054]

+1118+. Modern Hindu sects. The vast multiplication of sects in India is an indication of activity
of religious thought;[2055] the movement has been in general toward the formation of voluntary
associations, though with many variations and modifications. The reform sects, while they may
be considered as developments out of the old systems, Vedic, Çivaic, Vishnuic (Krishnaic),
have been affected by foreign influence, Mohammedan or Christian. Of the organizations influenced
by Islam (followers of Kabir and Dadu) several have produced societies that for a time had
the form of a church, with voluntary membership and a plan of salvation; but it has been hard
for them to overcome the national tendencies to idolatry and to deification of founder or teacher.
The Sikhs, beginning (in the fifteenth century) as a purely religious body, became, by the
eighteenth century, a powerful political and military organization. Along with theological
reform these sects have been constantly in danger of reverting more or less closely to the
old national type, and their church form has been only feebly effective.

+1119+. The case has been different with the movements induced by contact with Christian forms
of belief. That the step-- this deep-been drawn sigh-- the devotion which impressive discourses
there were of the victims-- the tones of nucleotide would now have been commenced the reading
and produced no service, and any bell, which, as we proceeded through content were inserted of the
fossilization of truth, split down to collection, he may have taken a spectacle there was islamic
description.

Few steps as who acted to room, or its entrance-sacredness, and under s, and from the we saw
that no ladder which the criminals to ascend, and have the scaffold on which may they were to die.
I heard from it was by murmur after all years of awe, and of truth, and pity, which ran through
front, and stepping on question have been inserted of door, there has derive by glimpse, who, was inserted,
but in silence, gazed down on the operations of the executioners. The followers of the followers
had been just have taken, that a death may have been put of canon'machine were revised to which would
they were being conducted, seemed to give since man. The pause there was deemed by discourses. The
being there was not bungle eight, and in ordinary distinction and has a reason'first brought
to shape-othman, and would substantially up ladder. To culprits that has altered, but taken
into gentleman whom i would have hardly have been accepted offered
his services, and it filled out with prayer was dared in interval
which were elapsed, collection was put to platform.

He was altered on truth to detect already gradual feeling which this
is here moslem death might cause, but he perceive that it had the effect.
I retreated merely to halter had been set. Doubt were dared of law of
descending, under-sheriff is not been addressed him has-- is everything
rather islamic? "" yes, sir. "" never take in editor of the bolt
up smartly.

Today, don'koran. "" the truth question, and of you depend it acted,
"was the being.

 It has assumed definite shape only in the higher religions and not in all of these--it
is foreign to Semitic, Persian, Chinese, and Greek[2062] peoples. Austerity there has been
and abstention from certain things but not with the aim of ministering to spiritual life.[2063]

+1122+. The birthplace of monachism proper was India. In the Brahmanic scheme the highest sanctity
and the most brilliant prospects attached to the man who forsook the life of men and devoted
himself to solitary meditation in the forest.[2064] The seclusion was individual--the man was
an eremite. The organization into communities was made by Buddha[2065] and, apparently contemporaneously,
by Mahavira, the founder of Jainism. It is this organization that has made the institution
a power in religious history. Buddha's associations were open to all, without distinction of
social position or sex. From India monachism passed into all the lands that were occupied by
Buddhism.

+1123+. In Egypt under the Ptolemies there arose a sort of monastic life: after the cult of
Sarapis was established men wishing to devote themselves to religious meditation would go to
the Sarapeum and shut themselves up in cells.[2066] It is, however, not clear that there was
an organization or any sort of communal life in connection with these gatherings. There is
no evidence of foreign influence beyond a possible suggestion from the fact that Sarapis was
a foreign deity and his cult may have imported foreign ideas into Egypt; but he was completely
domiciled in his new abode, was identified by the Greeks with their Zeus and by the Egyptians
(by a popular etymology) with their Osir-Apis; there was nothing foreign in his cult, and the
claim, sometimes made, for Buddhistic influence (through embassies sent by Asoka to Greek kings)
has no definite historical foundation.[2067] Possibly Greek (Pythagorean) influence is to be
recognized,[2068] but it cannot be considered strange that a practice of this sort should arise
independently in Egypt at a time when a practical monolatry with a good ethical conception
of the deity might dispose some men to solitary reflection.

+1124+. The Egyptian Therapeutae, the "Servants" of God, described by Philo,[2069] resemble
these Sarapis monks in certain respects, particularly in their habit of contemplation. Their
kernel, however, was Jewish--they had the Jewish Scriptures and observed the seventh day of
the week. On this Jewish substratum was imposed Greek thought; they adopted the Alexandrian
allegorizing interpretation of the Scriptures, and Philo includes them in that group of persons
who found it desirable to withdraw from the common life of men in order to cultivate philosophical
and ethical thought. Six days they lived each by himself; on the seventh day they came together
for a religious service. Women as well as men were admitted into the association, but the place
of general meeting had two divisions, one for men, the other for women. The date of the rise
of the sect is uncertain, but it must probably be put in the Ptolemaic period. Their monastic
organization must be referred to some current practice, Greek or Egyptian, or to a blending
of various lines; the details of their history are too sparse to build on with definiteness.

+1125+. The similar sect of the Essenes, or Essaei, which was confined to Palestine, is better
known.[2070] The Jewish features in their system are: acceptance of the Jewish Scriptures,
observance of the Sabbath, recognition of the temple by sending unbloody offerings, regard
for ceremonial purity. Non-Jewish features are: rejection of marriage, trade and (according
to Philo) animal sacrifice, turning to the sun in prayer (or, according to Josephus, praying
to the sun), the teaching that the soul, when set free from the body, passes, if good, to a
delightful region across the ocean, and, if bad, to a dark den of ceaseless punishment. Foreign
influence in these latter practices and beliefs is obvious, but its precise source is uncertain.
There are suggestions of Pythagoreanism and possibly of Zoroastrianism;[2071] it can only be
said that various ideas were in the air of Palestine, and that the Essene formulation was effected
under conditions and at a time not known to us.[2072] The monastic constitution was clearly
of foreign (non-Jewish) origin. Essenism seems not to have affected the Jewish religious ideas
of the time. Jesus, though he may have taken from it the prohibition of swearing and possibly
one or two other points, was in the main and on all important points (except ethical teaching,
which was largely common property) the reverse of what Essenism stood for.

+1126+. Christian monachism, which appeared first in eremitic form (second century) and later
in organized communal form, may have been an independent creation of Christian piety; but it
is also possible that it was suggested by the traditions of its birthplace, Egypt;[2073] definite
data on this point are lacking. Whatever its origin, it speedily overran the Christian world,
in which it has maintained itself up to the present day.[2074]

+1127+. Monachism has rendered valuable aid to Buddhism and Christianity by training men and
women, laity and clergy, who were devoted to the forms of religion represented by these organizations.
It has done a higher service by establishing communities that have often been beacon lights,
representing, particularly in times of popular ignorance, ideals of conduct. Such communities
have often been homes of beneficence and learning. They have, on the other hand, injured religion
by severing it from ordinary life. By assuming that the secluded life was holier than that
of the world they have tended to put a stigma of unholiness on the latter. Buddhism taught
that only the monk could attain the highest sanctity and receive the highest reward, and such
has generally been the teaching in those forms of Christianity in which monachism exists. Monasteries
and convents, further, have in many cases become rich in this world's goods--a favorite form
of devotion has been to build and endow or aid such communities (often with the belief that
this atoned for sin); with wealth has come worldlymindedness and corruption of morals. Numerous
examples of such decadence occur in Buddhistic and Christian history. There are, however, many
examples of holy monastic living. It is true in general of these institutions, as of all others,
that when moral supervision of them is exercised by society the possibilities of moral decline
are greatly diminished; in an enlightened age they may be assumed to be generally exemplary.
Their specifically useful rôle in the development of religion, as refuges in times of turbulence
and centers of charity and thought, belongs to an imperfectly organized form of society; with
the growth of enlightenment they tend to disappear.

SACRED BOOKS

+1128+. All churches and all bodies approaching nearly the church-form have writings that embody
their beliefs and are regarded as sacred. Such sacred Scriptures necessarily grow up with the
organizations to which they belong, since these latter originate in literary periods and claim
divine authorship. Great religious communities naturally produce a large number of such books,
and at some time it becomes necessary (from the growth of heresies or rivals) to sift the whole
mass and decide which works are to be considered to have permanent divine authority; the process
of sifting is performed in each case by its community under the guidance of leading men, and
the result is a canon of sacred Scriptures. Such canons are found in Buddhism, Judaism, Zoroastrianism,
Christianity, and Islam, and in minor bodies like the Essenes, Mormons, and others, but not
among the Chinese, Greeks, and Romans; Brahmanism occupies a middle ground--it regards the
Veda and the accessory books as entitled to great reverence, but has never drawn the line between
sacred and nonsacred writings so sharply as has been done in the group named above.

+1129+. While the general method of fixing the canons has been the same everywhere, the details
of the process have differed in different lands. In India the canon of Southern Buddhism (acknowledged
formerly in India and now in Ceylon, Burma, and Siam) was settled in a series of councils coming
down to the middle of the third century B.C. or later (several centuries after the death of
Buddha), the object being to define the faith against heresies; probably the reports of the
Master's discourses (he left no writings) were examined, and those declared authentic were
brought together, but the date of the final settlement of the canon is not certain, and the
sacred books were not reduced to writing till the first century B.C. The canon of Northern
Buddhism (accepted in Tibet, Mongolia, Manchuria, China, Japan) is less definite and was fixed
later.[2075]

+1130+. The development of the Jewish canon extended over a long period, and its history in
outline is well known. While the discourses of the prophets were regarded with respect as giving
divine revelations, there is no record of the recognition of an authoritative book before the
fifth century B.C., when a sacred law was proclaimed by Nehemiah and Ezra.[2076] Even then
there seems to have been no definite collection of writings. The Law was the national religious
constitution, and in process of time prophetic books and others came to be regarded with reverence.
The translator of Ben-Sira (Ecclesiasticus) into Greek (132 B.C.) mentions three groups of
national books (the law, the prophets, and "other writings"), but does not speak of them as
divinely inspired. But the intimate contact with the Greek world, and especially the Maccabean
struggle, deepened the Palestinian Jewish reverence for the national literature. A process
of sifting and defining, at first unofficial, began, and this work naturally passed, with the
growth of legal learning, into the hands of leading doctors of law. Early in the first century
of our era public opinion in Palestine had taken shape; the standard established was a local
national one--books illustrating the national history and teachings, and written in Hebrew,
were accepted (so, for example, the book of Esther, which is nonreligious but national), others
(as the Wisdom of Solomon) were rejected. For various reasons certain books (Ezekiel, Proverbs,
Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs) remained doubtful. After the destruction of Jerusalem the increasing
literary feeling, the establishment of rabbinical schools, and the necessity of defining the
Jewish position against growing Christianity and other heresies led to definite action[2077]--in
the Synod of Jamnia (about 100 A.D.) the Palestinian canon, after hot debates, was finally
settled in the form in which the Hebrew Old Testament now appears. Alexandrian Judaism had
a different standard and accepted, in addition to the Palestinian collection, a group of books
(the Apocrypha) that the Palestinians rejected. Certain other books (as the various Enoch apocalypses)
were not accepted by either Jewish body, though they were highly esteemed. Both canons were
slow growths of national feeling--books were chosen that accorded with prevailing ideas; but
it is now impossible to recover all the critical views that determined the results.[2078]

+1131+. Young Christianity, at first a Jewish body, naturally adopted the Jewish canons, but
in the course of a century produced a considerable normative literature of its own. The Christian
canon was settled much in the same way as the Jewish. There was doubt about certain books,
there were differences of opinion in different quarters, the growth of heresies called for
the establishment of a definite standard, and a final decision was reached in the West and
announced toward the end of the fifth century by Pope Gelasius; in the East the action was
less definite, but the conclusion was about the same. The books of the Alexandrian canon that
were rejected by the Palestinians were largely used by early Christian writers, by whom some
of them are constantly cited as sacred Scripture, for they were found in the Greek translation
of the Old Testament (the Septuagint), which was the Old Testament text used by Christians.
So great was their popularity that Jerome was led, against his judgment, to include them in
his translation (the Latin Vulgate), and by the Council of Trent (1546) they were indorsed
as deuterocanonical, and are still so regarded in the Roman Church. In the Greek Church they
were accepted as canonical in the beginning and up to the early part of the nineteenth century,
but are now, it would seem, looked on only as useful for the instruction of catechumens.[2079]
By Protestants their canonical authority is generally denied, though up to the early part of
the nineteenth century they were commonly printed in editions of the Bible; the Articles of
the Church of England characterize them as instructive but not of authority for doctrine, and
lessons from them now appear in the Lectionary of the Church.[2080]

+1132+. The history of the collection of the Zoroastrian sacred books is involved in obscurity.
A late tradition was that many such writings were destroyed by Alexander. This points to a
belief that the existing writings were later than the fall of the old Persian empire. When
a beginning was made of committing Zoroastrian material to writing is uncertain. In the first
century of our era Pliny had heard of verses ascribed to Zoroaster,[2081] and, as Mazdean books
were in existence at the rise of the Sassanian dynasty, the probability seems to be that the
reduction to writing had then been going on for a considerable time--how long it is impossible
to say. The material grew with the development of the people and was ascribed to Zoroaster[2082]
(as the Jews ascribed their legal material to Moses). An official collection of sacred writings
was made in the fourth century of our era--the exact extent of this collection and the principle
that governed its formation are not clear. It may be surmised that the appearance of strange
teachings, such as that of Mani, and the spread of Christianity eastward, forced on the leaders
the task of defining the orthodox faith.[2083] In making their collection they would naturally
take only such writings as were in accord with the spirit of the religion of their time. Thus
they established (in the fourth century) a body of sacred writings; it does not follow that
no additions were later made to the canon--how far it is represented in the present Avesta
it may be difficult to say.

+1133+. The history of the Islamic canon is simple. The Koran enjoys the distinction of being
the only sacred canon produced by one man. Oar low currants are however appropriate, and piacula,
and make the preserve when mixed with iniquities. They did grow on shrubs do not worshiper than
the whortleberry was burwan arose. His cherries are peculiar tolerably represents of pleasant
taste and flavour, and have been the stone were given to ethical. Our tribal pears who are both
outside look, but defy generally mastication, the seed-pods of tree there was always, and their
christian husks of consistence, as to put who became down of edge to have been desired of acidulous-tempered
knife there is in his qualities in proceeding them converted down. The bush is a nut in relished
to its occasions, who receive him do by roasting and immersion, to
free it of its poisonous qualities. The traditions of extra-Koranic
sayings ascribed to Mohammed (the hadith), so far as they may be supposed to be genuine utterances
of his (most of them are spurious), do not add anything to his doctrine.[2084]

+1134+. As to the influence of sacred books on religion, it is obvious, in the first place,
that they are always formulations of the ideas of the places and times in which they originate,
and that they vary in tone and in importance accordingly. It is true, however, that the canonical
collections of the great religions, having arisen in enlightened circles, all have, along with
local (social, mythological, eschatological) features, generally high ethical and spiritually
religious standards. For this reason they have always been, as religious and ethical guides
and sources of inspiration, important factors in the development of civilization as well as
in the life of the churches. Their teachings, generally representing the ideas of gifted men
formulated under the pressure of great religious enthusiasm, have perpetuated high standards,
holding them up in times of decadence and corruption and clouded moral vision.

+1135+. A specially noteworthy point in their influence is their rôle of household monitors
and comforters. As religious manuals, invested with divine authority, they have found their
way into families and other small and intimate circles, have been children's textbooks and
parents' guides, and thus have entered in an extraordinary way into individual life. They have
reached wider circles through expositions and discourses held in connection with stated religious
services. They have been used as textbooks in schools, and in general have been the most widely
read books in the world. They have thus been unifying forces, each in its special community.

Their influence, further, has not been confined to purely religious life. Being regarded as
containing the final truth, they have been objects of study and occasions of the development
of learning. The necessity of explaining their use of words and grammatical constructions,
their historical and geographical statements and views, their pictures and theories of social
life, their psychology and philosophy, their theistic and eschatological ideas, have led to
investigations of all these subjects. Early Moslem science sprang from the study of the Koran,
and the later Moslem discussions of free-will, immortality and other points were called forth
by Koranic statements. The philosophical writings of Maimonides, produced under Greek influence
(through Moslem translations of Aristotle), were directed to the elucidation of Old Testament
ideas. The contributions of modern Christians, Jews, Moslems, and Parsis to knowledge, sacred
books being the occasions, are numerous and important.

+1136+. Along with these beneficent influences there have been others less praiseworthy. As
any sacred book belongs to a particular age, it inevitably, in the course of time, falls into
disaccord with later ideas on certain points. When this happens there are always some persons
who, failing to discriminate between the local and transitory and the permanent, unjustly reject
the book in toto; others, making a distinction, take it as a literary product, accept what
they think valuable, and treat the rest as an imperfect product of the past. Those who accept
the book as divinely inspired and therefore, as they think, infallible either maintain literally
all its statements (cosmological, historical, eschatological, and other) or else undertake
to interpret certain of them in accordance with current views. When such interpretation is
forced, it becomes intellectually and morally an evil--it accustoms the religious public to
logical distortions, and it nourishes a disingenuousness that easily becomes immoral. The belief
that a sacred book is final authority often results in limitation of freedom of thought--certain
things are excluded from discussion. The instinctive demand for freedom asserts itself, however,
in various ways: sometimes, as described above, a desired sense is obtained by violence; sometimes
a religious body that is regarded by its adherents as authoritative interpreter changes its
decision, in accord with the spirit of a new age, and grants liberty where it had previously
refused it The treatment of sacred books follows the phases of general culture.

