"

"Even during your delirium you constantly referred to this idea."

"Because this idea alone sustained my flickering life. What a hope! Sovereign princess! almost
a queen," she added, with rapture.

"Once more, Sarah; no mad dreams; the awakening will be terrible!"

"Mad dreams? How! when Rudolph shall know that this young girl, now a prisoner at Saint Lazare,
is our child, do you think that---"

Seyton interrupted his sister.

"I believe," he replied, with bitterness, "that princes place reasons of state and political
proprieties before natural ties."

"Do you count so little on my address?"

"The prince is not the same fond and enamored youth whom you seduced in days gone by."

"Do you know why I have wished to ornament my hair with this band of coral? and why I have
put on this white robe? It is because, the first time Rudolph saw me at the court of Gerolstein,
I was dressed in white, and I wore the same band of coral in my hair."

"How?" said Thomas Seyton, looking at his sister with surprise: "you wish to evoke these memories;
do you not, on the contrary, dread their influence?"

"I know Rudolph better than you. Doubtless, my features, now changed by age and sufferings,
are no longer those of the young girl of sixteen he so wildly loved--whom he has alone loved--for
I was his first love. And this love, unique in the life of man, leaves always in his heart
ineffaceable traces. Believe me, brother, the sight of this ornament will awaken in Rudolph,
not only the memories of his love, but also those of his youth; and to men the recollection
of their first emotions is always sweet and precious."

"But to these soft memories are joined others of terrible import. Do you forget the fatal termination
of your love? The conduct of the prince's father toward you? Your obstinate silence when Rudolph,
after your marriage with Earl M'Gregor, demanded your child, then quite an infant? your daughter,
of whose death, ten years before, you informed him in a cold letter? Do you forget that since
that time the prince has only felt for you contempt--hatred?"

"Pity has taken the place of hatred. Since he has known that I was in a dying state, each day
has he sent Baron de Graun to make inquiries."

"From humanity."

"Just now he answered my note; said that he would come here. This concession is immense, my
brother."

"He believes you dying. He supposes that he is coming to take a last farewell. You were wrong
not to write to him what you are now about to disclose."

"I know why I act thus. This revelation will fill him with surprise and joy, and I shall be
present to profit by his first burst of tenderness. To-day, or never, he shall say to me, 'A
marriage would make the birth of our child legitimate.' If he says so, his word is sacred,
and the hope of all my life will at length be realized."

"If he makes you this promise--yes."

At this moment was heard the noise of a carriage, which entered the court-yard. "It is he--it
is Rudolph!" cried Sarah.

"Yes, it is the prince, he is getting out of the carriage."

"Leave me alone--this is the decisive moment," said Sarah, with immovable self-control; for
a towering ambition and unbounded selfishness had always been and still were the ruling motives
of this woman.

After a momentary hesitation, Thomas Seyton drew near to his sister and said, "It is I who
will inform the prince how your daughter has been saved; this interview will be too dangerous
for you; a violent emotion would kill you."

"Your hand, my brother," said Sarah.

Then, placing on her impassable heart the hand of Seyton, she added, with a forced and icy
smile, "Am I agitated?"

"No, in truth, not at all," said Seyton, with surprise; "I know what command you have over
yourself. But at such a moment--where for you will be decided--a crown--or death--your calmness
absolutely confounds me."

"Why this astonishment, my brother? did you not know that nothing--no, nothing has ever caused
this marble heart to quicken its pulsations? It will only palpitate when I shall feel placed
on my brow the sovereign crown. I hear Rudolph--leave me."

"But--"

"Leave me!" cried Sarah, in a tone so imperious, so resolute, that her brother left the apartment
some moments before the prince was introduced. When Rudolph entered the saloon, his countenance
expressed pity; but seeing the countess seated in the chair decked with her jewels, he drew
back with surprise, and his physiognomy became immediately somber and suspicious.

The countess, divining his thoughts, said to him in a soft and feeble voice, "You thought to
find me dying; you came to receive my last farewell!"

"I have always regarded as sacred the last wishes of the dying, but it appears I have been
deceived."

"Reassure yourself," said Sarah, interrupting Rudolph. "I have not deceived you; there remain
for me but a few hours to live. Pardon me a last act of coquetry; I wished to spare you the
usual attendants of a death-bed. I wished to die dressed as I was the first time I saw you.
Alas! after ten years of separation, I see you again! Thanks--oh, thanks! But in your turn,
render thanks to heaven for having moved you to come to listen to my last prayer. If you had
refused me, I had carried with me to the tomb a secret which is going to make the joy, the
happiness of your life. Joy mixed with some tears, like all other human felicity; but this
felicity! you would buy it at the price of half the remaining days of your life!"

"What do you mean to say?" demanded the prince, with surprise.

"Yes, Rudolph, if you had not come, this secret would have followed me to the tomb--it had
been my sole vengeance; and yet--no, no, I should not have had this terrible courage. Although
you would have caused me much suffering, I should have divided with you this supreme happiness,
which, more fortunate than I, you will a long time enjoy."

"But, once more, madame, what means all this?"

"When you know it, you will comprehend my delay in informing you, for you will regard this
revelation as a miracle from heaven. But, strange thought--I, who with one word can cause you
the greatest happiness that you have ever experienced--I feel, although now the minutes of
my life are counted--I feel an indescribable satisfaction in prolonging your suspense; and,
besides, I know your heart, and, in spite of the firmness of your character, I should fear
to announce to you, without preparation, a discovery so incredible. The emotions of sudden
joy have also their dangers."

"Your pallor increases--you with difficulty restrain a violent agitation," said Rudolph; "all
this proves that something grave and important----"

"Grave and important!" repeated Sarah, in a faltering voice, for, notwithstanding her habitual
immobility, in reflecting upon the immense importance of the revelation she was about to make
to Rudolph, she felt herself more agitated than she could have thought possible. After a moment's
silence, Sarah, no longer able to restrain herself, cried, "Rudolph, our child is not dead."

"Our child!"

"I tell you she lives!" These words, the accent of truth with which they were pronounced, moved
the prince to the very bottom of his heart.

"Our child!" he repeated, advancing hastily toward Sarah; "our child! my daughter!"

"She is not dead; I have certain proofs; I know where she is--to-morrow you shall see her."

"My daughter! my child!" repeated Rudolph, as if in a dream; "can it be possible? is she alive?"

Then, suddenly reflecting on the great improbability of this relation, and fearing to be the
dupe of Sarah, he cried, "No, no; it is a dream! it is impossible, you deceive me; it is some
unworthy deceit!"

"Rudolph, listen to me!"

