A hundred yards in front of the ranch house all was holy peace, peace in the stilled air, peace
dreaming along the neighbouring hills and lying like a benediction over the wide river-flat
below me, through which the stream wove a shining course. I exulted in it, from the dangers
passed. Then appeared Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill from the fringe of cottonwoods, jolting
a tired horse toward me over the flat.

"Come have some tea," she cordially boomed as she passed. I returned uncertainly. Tea? Yes.
But--However, the door would be shut and the Asiatic probably diverted.

As I came again to the rear of the ranch house Mrs. Pettengill, in khaki riding breeches, flannel
shirt, and the hat of her trade, towered bulkily as an admirable figure of wrath, one hand
on her hip, one poising a quirt viciously aloft. By the corral gate Buck Devine drooped cravenly
above his damaged saddle; at the door of the bunk house Sandy Sawtelle tottered precariously
on one foot, his guitar under his arm, a look of guilty horror on his set face. By the stable
door stood the incredibly withered Jimmie Time, shrinking a vast dismay.

"You hear me!" exploded the infuriated chatelaine, and I knew she was repeating the phrase.

"Ain't I got to mend this latigo?" protested Buck Devine piteously.

"You'll go up the gulch and beyond the dry fork and mend it, if you whistle that tune again!"

Sandy Sawtelle rumpled his pink hair to further disorder and found a few weak words for his
conscious guilt.

"Now, I wasn't aiming to harm anybody, what with with my game laig and shet up here like I am--"

"Well, my Lord! Can't you play a sensible tune then?"

Jimmie Time hereupon behaved craftily. He lifted his head, showing the face of a boy who had
somehow got to be seventy years old without ever getting to be more than a boy, and began to
whistle softly and innocently--an air of which hardly anything could be definitely said except
that it was not "The Rosary." It was very flagrantly not "The Rosary." His craft availed him not.

"Yes, and you, too!" thundered the lady. "You was the worst--you was singing. Didn't I hear
you? How many times I got to tell you? First thing you know, you little reprobate--"

Jimmie Time cowered again. Visibly he took on unbelievable years.

"Yes, ma'am," he whispered.

"Yes, ma'am," meekly echoed the tottering instrumentalist.

"Yes, ma'am," muttered Buck Devine, "not knowing you was anywheres near--"

"Makes no difference where I be--you hear me!"

Although her back was toward me I felt her glare. The wretches winced. She came a dozen steps
toward me, then turned swiftly to glare again. They shuddered, even though she spoke no word.
Then she came on, muttering hotly, and together we approached the ranch house. A dozen feet
from the door she bounded ahead of me with a cry of baffled rage. I saw why. Lew Wee, unrecking
her approach, was cold-bloodedly committing an encore. She sped through the doorway, and I
heard Lew Wee's frightened squeal as he sped through another. When I stood in the room she
was putting violent hands to the throat of the thing.

"The hours I spend with th--" The throttled note expired in a very dreadful squawk of agony.
It was as if foul murder had been done, and done swiftly. The maddened woman faced me with
the potentially evil disk clutched in her hands. In a voice that is a notable loss to our revivals
of Greek tragedy she declaimed:

"Ain't it the limit?--and the last thing I done was to hide out that record up behind the clock
where he couldn't find it!"

In a sudden new alarm and with three long steps she reached the door of the kitchen and flung
it open. Through a window thus exposed we beheld the offender. One so seldom thinks of the
Chinese as athletes! Lew Wee was well down the flat toward the cottonwoods and still going strong.

"Ain't it the limit?" again demanded his employer. "Gosh all--excuse me, but they got me into
such a state. Here I am panting like a tuckered hound. And now I got to make the tea myself.
He won't dare come back before suppertime."

It seemed to be not yet an occasion for words from me. I tried for a look of intelligent sympathy.
In the kitchen I heard her noisily fill a teakettle with water. She was not herself yet. She
still muttered hotly. I moved to the magazine--littered table and affected to be taken with
the portrait of a smug--looking prize Holstein on the first page of the Stock Breeder's Gazette.

The volcano presently seethed through the room and entered its own apartment.

Ten minutes later my hostess emerged with recovered aplomb. She had donned a skirt and a flowered
blouse, and dusted powder upon and about her sunburned and rather blobby nose. Her crinkly
gray hair had been drawn to a knot at the back of her grenadier's head. Her widely set eyes
gleamed with the smile of her broad and competent mouth.

"Tea in one minute," she promised more than audibly as she bustled into the kitchen. It really
came in five, and beside the tray she pleasantly relaxed. The cups were filled and a breach
was made upon the cake she had brought. The tea was advertising a sufficient strength, yet
she now raised the dynamics of her own portion.

"I'll just spill a hooker of this here Scotch into mine," she said, and then, as she did even
so: "My lands! Ain't I the cynical old Kate! And silly! Letting them boys upset me that way
with that there fool song." She decanted a saucerful of the re-enforced tea and raised it to
her pursed lips. "Looking at you!" she murmured cavernously and drank deep. She put the saucer
back where nice persons leave theirs at all times. "Say, it was hot over on that bench to-day.
I was getting out that bunch of bull calves, and all the time here was old Safety First mumbling
round--"

This was rather promising, but I had resolved differently.

"That song," I insinuated. "Of course there are people--"

"You bet there are! I'm one of 'em, too! What that song's done to me--and to other innocent
bystanders in the last couple weeks--"

She sighed hugely, drank more of the fortified brew--nicely from the cup this time--and fashioned
a cigarette from materials at her hand.

In the flame of a lighted match Mrs. Pettengill's eyes sparkled with a kind of savage retrospection.
She shrugged it off impatiently.

"I guess you thought I spoke a mite short when you asked about Nettie's wedding yesterday."

It was true. She had turned the friendly inquiry with a rather mystifying abruptness. I murmured
politely. She blew twin jets of smoke from the widely separated corners of her generous mouth
and then shrewdly narrowed her gaze to some distant point of narration.

"Yes, sir, I says to her, 'Woman's place is the home.' And what you think she come back with?
That she was going to be a leader of the New Dawn. Yes, sir, just like that. Five feet one,
a hundred and eight pounds in her winter clothes, a confirmed pickle eater--pretty enough,
even if she is kind of peaked and spiritual looking--and going to lead the New Dawn.

"Where'd she catch it? My fault, of course, sending her back East to school and letting her
visit the W.B. Hemingways, Mrs. H. being the well-known clubwoman like the newspapers always
print under her photo in evening dress. That's how she caught it all right.

"I hadn't realized it when she first got back, except she was pale and far-away in the eyes
and et pickles heavily at every meal--oh, mustard, dill, sour, sweet, anything that was pickles--and
not enough meat and regular victuals. Gaunted she was, but I didn't suspect her mind was contaminated
none till I sprung Chester Timmins on her as a good marrying bet. You know Chet, son of old
Dave that has the Lazy Eight Ranch over on Pipe Stone--a good, clean boy that'll have the ranch
to himself as soon as old Dave dies of meanness, and that can't be long now. It was then she
come out delirious about not being the pampered toy of any male--male, mind you! It seems when
these hussies want to knock man nowadays they call him a male. And she rippled on about the
freedom of her soul and her downtrod sisters and this here New Dawn.

"Well, sir, a baby could have pushed me flat with one finger. At first I didn' know no better'n
to argue with her, I was that affrighted. 'Why, Nettie Hosford,' I says, 'to think I've lived
to hear my only sister's only child talking in shrieks like that! To think I should have to
tell one of my own kin that women's place is the home. Look at me,' I says--we was down in
Red Gap at the time--'pretty soon I'll go up to the ranch and what'll I do there?" I says.

"'Well, listen,' I says, 'to a few of the things I'll be doing: I'll be marking, branding,
and vaccinating the calves, I'll be classing and turning out the strong cattle on the range.
I'll be having the colts rid, breaking mules for haying, oiling and mending the team harness,
cutting and hauling posts, tattooing the ears and registering the thoroughbred calves, putting
in dams, cleaning ditches, irrigating the flats, setting out the vegetable garden, building
fence, swinging new gates, overhauling the haying tools, receiving, marking, and branding the
new two--year--old bulls, plowing and seeding grain for our work stock and hogs, breaking in
new cooks and blacksmiths'--I was so mad I went on till I was winded. 'And that ain't half
of it,' I says. 'Women's work is never done; her place is in the home and she finds so much
to do right there that she ain't getting any time to lead a New Dawn. I'll start you easy,'
I says; 'learn you to bake a batch of bread or do a tub of washing--something simple--and there's
Chet Timmins, waiting to give you a glorious future as wife and mother and helpmeet.'

"She just give me one look as cold as all arctics and says, 'It's repellent'--that's all, just
'repellent.' I see I was up against it. No good talking. Sometimes it comes over me like a
flash when not to talk. It does to some women. So I affected a light manner and pretended to
laugh it off, just as if I didn't see scandal threatening--think of having it talked about
that a niece of my own raising was a leader of the New Dawn!

"'All right,' I says, 'only, of course, Chet Timmins is a good friend and neighbour of mine,
even if he is a male, so I hope you won't mind his dropping in now and again from time to time,
just to say howdy and eat a meal.' And she flusters me again with her coolness.

"'No,' she says, 'I won't mind, but I know what you're counting on, and it won't do either
of you any good. I'm above the appeal of a man's mere presence,' she says, 'for I've thrown
off the age--long subjection; but I won't mind his coming. I shall delight to study him. They're
all alike, and one specimen is as good as another for that. But neither of you need expect
anything,' she says, 'for the wrongs of my sisters have armoured me against the grossness of
mere sex appeal.' Excuse me for getting off such things, but I'm telling you how she talked.

"'Oh, shucks!' I says to myself profanely, for all at once I saw she wasn't talking her own
real thoughts but stuff she'd picked up from the well-known lady friends of Mrs. W.B. Hemingway.
I was mad all right; but the minute I get plumb sure mad I get wily. 'I was just trying you
out,' I says. 'Of course you are right!' 'Of course I am,' says she, 'though I hardly expected
you to see it, you being so hardened a product of the ancient ideal of slave marriage.'

"At them words it was pretty hard for me to keep on being wily, but I kept all right. I kept
beautifully. I just laughed and said we'd have Chet Timmins up for supper, and she laughed
and said it would be amusing.

"And it was, or it would have been if it hadn't been so sad and disgusting. Chet, you see,
had plumb crumpled the first time he ever set eyes on her, and he's never been able to uncrumple.
He always choked up the minute she'd come into the room, and that night he choked worse'n ever
because the little devil started in to lead him on--aiming to show me how she could study a
male, I reckon. He couldn't even ask for some more of the creamed potatoes without choking
up--with her all the time using her eyes on him, and telling him how a great rough man like
him scared 'poor little me.' Chet's tan bleaches out a mite by the end of winter, but she kept
his face exactly the shade of that new mahogany sideboard I got, and she told him several times
that he ought to go see a throat specialist right off about that choking of his.

"And after supper I'm darned if she didn't lure him out onto the porch in the moonlight, and
stand there sad looking and helpless, simply egging him on, mind you, her in one of them little
squashy white dresses that she managed to brush against him--all in the way of cold study,
mind you. Say, ain't we the lovely tame rattlesnakes when we want to be! And this big husky
lummox of a Chester Timmins--him she'd called a male--what does he do but stand safely at a
distance of four feet in the grand romantic light of the full moon, and tell her vivaciously
all about the new saddle he's having made in Spokane. And even then he not only chokes but
he giggles. They do say a strong man in tears is a terrible sight. But a husky man giggling
is worse--take it from one who has suffered. And all the time I knew his heart was furnishing
enough actual power to run a feed chopper. So did she!

"'The creature is so typical,' she says when the poor cuss had finally stumbled down the front
steps. 'He's a real type.' Only she called it 'teep,' having studied the French language among
other things. 'He is a teep indeed!' she says.

"I had to admit myself that Chester wasn't any self-starter. I saw he'd have to be cranked
by an outsider if he was going to win a place of his own in the New Dawn. And I kept thinking
wily, and the next P.M. when Nettie and I was downtown I got my hunch. You know that music
store on Fourth Street across from the Boston Cash Emporium. It's kept by C. Wilbur Todd, and
out in front in a glass case he had a mechanical banjo that was playing 'The Rosary' with variations
when we come by. We stopped a minute to watch the machinery picking the strings and in a flash
I says to myself, 'I got it! Eureka, California!' I says, 'it's come to me!'

"Of course that piece don't sound so awful tender when it's done on a banjo with variations,
but I'd heard it done right and swell one time and so I says, 'There's the song of songs to
bring foolish males and females to their just mating sense.'"

The speaker paused to drain her cup and to fashion another cigarette, her eyes dreaming upon
far vistas.

"Ain't it fierce what music does to persons," she resumed. "Right off I remembered the first
time I'd heard that piece--in New York City four years ago, in a restaurant after the theatre
one night, where I'd gone with Mrs. W.B. Hemingway and her husband. A grand, gay place it was,
with an orchestra. I picked at some untimely food and sipped a highball--they wouldn't let
a lady smoke there--and what interested me was the folks that come in. Folks always do interest
me something amazing. Strange ones like that, I mean, where you set and try to figure out all
about 'em, what kind of homes they got, and how they act when they ain't in a swell restaurant,
and everything. Pretty soon comes a couple to the table next us and, say, they was just plain
Mr. and Mrs. Mad. Both of 'em stall-fed. He was a large, shiny lad, with pink jowls barbered
to death and wicked looking, like a well-known clubman or villain. The lady was spectacular
and cynical, with a cold, thin nose and eyes like a couple of glass marbles. Her hair was several
shades off a legal yellow and she was dressed! She would have made handsome loot, believe me--aigrette,
bracelets, rings, dog collar, gold-mesh bag, vanity case--Oh, you could see at a glance that
she was one of them Broadway social favourites you read about. And both grouchy, like I said.
He scowled till you knew he'd just love to beat a crippled step-child to death, and she--well,
her work wasn't so coarse; she kept her mad down better. She set there as nice and sweet as
a pet scorpion.

"'A scrap,' I says to myself, 'and they've only half finished. She's threatened to quit and
he, the cowardly dog, has dared her to.' Plain enough. The waiter knew it soon as I did when
he come to take their order. Wouldn't speak to each other. Talked through him; fought it out
to something different for each one. Couldn't even agree on the same kind of cocktail. Both
slamming the waiter--before they fought the order to a finish each had wanted to call the head
waiter, only the other one stopped it.

"So I rubbered awhile, trying to figure out why such folks want to finish up their fights in
a restaurant, and then I forgot 'em, looking at some other persons that come in. Then the orchestra
started this song and I seen a lady was getting up in front to sing it. I admit the piece got
me. It got me good. Really, ain't it the gooey mess of heart-throbs when you come right down
to it? This lady singer was a good-looking sad-faced contralto in a low-cut black dress--and
how she did get the tears out of them low notes! Oh, I quit looking at people while her chest
was oozing out that music. And it got others, too. I noticed lots of 'em had stopped eating
when I looked round, and there was so much clapping she had to get up and do it all over again.
And what you think? In the middle of the second time I look over to these fighters, and darned
if they ain't holding hands across the table; and more, she's got a kind of pitiful, crying
smile on and he's crying right out--crying into his cold asparagus, plain as day.

"What more would you want to know about the powers of this here piece of music? They both spoke
like human beings to the scared waiter when he come back, and the lad left a five-spot on the
tray when he paid his check. Some song, yes?

"And all this flashed back on me when Nettie and I stood there watching this cute little banjo.
So I says to myself, 'Here, my morbid vestal, is where I put you sane; here's where I hurl
an asphyxiating bomb into the trenches of the New Dawn.' Out loud I only says, 'Let's go in
and see if Wilbur has got some new records.'

"'Wilbur?' says she, and we went in. Nettie had not met Wilbur.

"I may as well tell you here and now that C. Wilbur Todd is a shrimp. Shrimp I have said and
shrimp I always will say. He talks real brightly in his way--he will speak words like an actor
or something--but for brains! Say, he always reminds me of the dumb friend of the great detective
in the magazine stories, the one that goes along to the scene of the crime to ask silly questions
and make fool guesses about the guilty one, and never even suspects who done the murder, till
the detective tells on the last page when they're all together in the library.

"Sure, that's Wilbur. It would be an ideal position for him. Instead of which he runs this
here music store, sells these jitney pianos and phonographs and truck like that. And serious!
Honestly, if you seen him coming down the street you'd say, 'There comes one of these here
musicians.' Wears long hair and a low collar and a flowing necktie and talks about his technique.
Yes, sir, about the technique of working a machinery piano. Gives free recitals in the store
every second Saturday afternoon, and to see him set down and pump with his feet, and push levers
and pull handles, weaving himself back and forth, tossing his long, silken locks back and looking
dreamily off into the distance, you'd think he was a Paderewski. As a matter of fact, I've
seen Paderewski play and he don't make a tenth of the fuss Wilbur does. And after this recital
I was at one Saturday he comes up to some of us ladies, mopping his pale brow, and he says,
'It does take it out of one! I'm always a nervous wreck after these little affairs of mine.'
Would that get you, or would it not?

"So we go in the store and Wilbur looks up from a table he's setting at in the back end.

"'You find me studying some new manuscripts,' he says, pushing back the raven locks from his
brow. Say, it was a weary gesture he done it with--sort of languid and world-weary. And what
you reckon he meant by studying manuscripts? Why, he had one of these rolls of paper with the
music punched into it in holes, and he was studying that line that tells you when to play hard
or soft and all like that. Honest, that was it!

"'I always study these manuscripts of the masters conscientiously before I play them,' says he.

"Such is Wilbur. Such he will ever be. So I introduced him to Nettie and asked if he had this
here song on a phonograph record. He had. He had it on two records. 'One by a barytone gentleman,
and one by a mezzo-soprano,' says Wilbur. I set myself back for both. He also had it with variations
on one of these punched rolls. He played that for us. It took him three minutes to get set
right at the piano and to dust his fingers with a white silk handkerchief which he wore up
his sleeve. And he played with great expression and agony and bending exercises, ever and anon
tossing back his rebellious locks and fixing us with a look of pained ecstasy. Of course it
sounded better than the banjo, but you got to have the voice with that song if you're meaning
to do any crooked work. Nettie was much taken with it even so, and Wilbur played it another
way. What he said was that it was another school of interpretation. It seemed to have its points
with him, though he favoured the first school, he said, because of a certain almost rugged
fidelity. He said the other school was marked by a tendency to idealism, and he pulled some
of the handles to show how it was done. I'm merely telling you how Wilbur talked.

"Nettie listened very serious. There was a new look in her eyes. 'That song has got to her
even on a machinery piano,' I says, 'but wait till we get the voice, with she and Chester out
in the mischievous moonlight.' Wasn't I the wily old hound! Nettie sort of lingered to hear
Wilbur, who was going good by this time. 'One must be the soul behind the wood and wire,' he
says; 'one rather feels just that, or one remains merely a brutal mechanic.'

"'I understand,' says Nettie. 'How you must have studied!'

"'Oh, studied!' says Wilbur, and tossed his mane back and laughed in a lofty and suffering
manner. Studied! He'd gone one year to a business college in Seattle after he got out of high
school!

"'I understand,' says Nettie, looking all reverent and buffaloed.

"'It is the price one must pay for technique,' says Wilbur. 'And to-day you found me in the
mood. I am not always in the mood.'

"'I understand,' says Nettie.

"I'm just giving you an idea, understand. Then Wilbur says, 'I will bring these records up
this evening if I may. The mezzo-soprano requires a radically different adjustment from the
barytone.' 'My God!' thinks I, 'has he got technique on the phonograph, too!' But I says he
must come by all means, thinking he could tend the machine while Nettie and Chester is out
on the porch getting wise to each other.

"'There's another teep for you,' I says to Nettie when we got out of the place. 'He certainly
is marked by tendencies,' I says. I meant it for a nasty slam at Wilbur's painful deficiencies
as a human being, but she took it as serious as Wilbur took himself--which is some!

"'Ah, yes, the artist teep,' says she,'the most complex, the most baffling of all.'

"That was a kind of a sickish jolt to me--the idea that something as low in the animal kingdom
as Wilbur could baffle anyone--but I thinks, 'Shucks! Wait till he lines up alongside of a
regular human man like Chet Timmins!'

"I had Chet up to supper again. He still choked on words of one syllable if Nettie so much
as glanced at him, and turned all sorts of painful colours like a cheap rug. But I keep thinking
the piece will fix that all right.

"At eight o'clock Wilbur sifted in with his records and something else flat and thin, done
up in paper that I didn't notice much at the time. My dear heart, how serious he was! As serious
as--well, I chanced to be present at the house of mourning when the barber come to shave old
Judge Armstead after he'd passed away--you know what I mean--kind of like him Wilbur was, talking
subdued and cat-footing round very solemn and professional. I thought he'd never get that machine
going. He cleaned it, and he oiled it, and he had great trouble picking out the right fibre
needle, holding six or eight of 'em up to the light, doing secret things to the machine's inwards,
looking at us sharp as if we oughtn't to be talking even then, and when she did move off I'm
darned if he didn't hang in a strained manner over that box, like he was the one that was doing
it all and it wouldn't get the notes right if he took his attention off.

"It was a first-class record, I'll say that. It was the male barytone--one of them pleading
voices that get all into you. It wasn't half over before I seen Nettie was strongly moved,
as they say, only she was staring at Wilbur, who by now was leading the orchestra with one
graceful arm and looking absorbed and sodden, like he done it unconsciously. Chester just set
there with his mouth open, like something you see at one of these here aquariums.

"We moved round some when it was over, while Wilbur was picking out just the right needle for
the other record, and so I managed to cut that lump of a Chester out of the bunch and hold
him on the porch till I got Nettie out, too. Then I said 'Sh-h-h!' so they wouldn't move when
Wilbur let the mezzo-soprano start. And they had to stay out there in the golden moonlight
with love's young dream and everything. The lady singer was good, too. No use in talking, that
song must have done a lot of heart work right among our very best families. It had me going
again so I plumb forgot my couple outside. I even forgot Wilbur, standing by the box showing
the lady how to sing.

"It come to the last--you know how it ends--'To kiss the cross, sweetheart, to kiss the cross!'
There was a rich and silent moment and I says, 'If that Chet Timmins hasn't shown himself to
be a regular male teep by this time--' And here come Chet's voice, choking as usual, 'Yes,
paw switched to Durhams and Herefords over ten years ago--you see Holsteins was too light;
they don't carry the meat--' Honest! I'm telling you what I heard. And yet when they come in
I could see that Chester had had tears in his eyes from that song, so still I didn't give in,
especially as Nettie herself looked very exalted, like she wasn't at that minute giving two
whoops in the bad place for the New Dawn.

"Nettie made for Wilbur, who was pushing back his hair with a weak but graceful sweep of the
arm--it had got down before his face like a portière--and I took Chet into a corner and tried
to get some of the just wrath of God into his heart; but, my lands! You'd have said he didn't
know there was such a thing as a girl in the whole Kulanche Valley. He didn't seem to hear
me. He talked other matters.

"'Paw thinks,' he says, 'that he might manage to take them hundred and fifty bull calves off
your hands.' 'Oh, indeed!' I says. 'And does he think of buying 'em--as is often done in the
cattle business--or is he merely aiming to do me a favour?' I was that mad at the poor worm,
but he never knew. 'Why, now, paw says "You tell Maw Pettengill I might be willing to take
'em off her hands at fifty dollars a head,"' he says. 'I should think he might be,' I says,
'but they ain't bothering my hands the least little mite. I like to have 'em on my hands at
anything less than sixty a head,' I says. 'Your pa,' I went on, 'is the man that started this
here safety-first cry. Others may claim the honour, but it belongs solely to him.' 'He never
said anything about that,' says poor Chester. 'He just said you was going to be short of range
this summer.' 'Be that all too true, as it may be,' I says, 'but I still got my business faculties--'
And I was going on some more, but just then I seen Nettie and Wilbur was awful thick over something
he'd unwrapped from the other package he'd brought. It was neither more nor less than a big
photo of C. Wilbur Todd. Yes, sir, he'd brought her one.

"'I think the artist has caught a bit of the real just there, if you know what I mean,' says
Wilbur, laying a pale thumb across the upper part of the horrible thing.

"'I understand,' says Nettie, 'the real you was expressing itself.'

"'Perhaps,' concedes Wilbur kind of nobly. 'I dare say he caught me in one of my rarer moods.
You don't think it too idealized?'

"'Don't jest,' says she, very pretty and severe. And they both gazed spellbound.

"'Chester,' I says in low but venomous tones, 'you been hanging round that girl worse than
Grant hung round Richmond, but you got to remember that Grant was more than a hanger. He made
moves, Chester, moves! Do you get me?'

"'About them calves,' says Chester, 'pa told me it's his honest opinion--'

"Well, that was enough for once. I busted up that party sudden and firm.

"'It has meant much to me,' says Wilbur at parting.

"'I understand,' says Nettie.

"'When you come up to the ranch, Miss Nettie,' says Chester, 'you want to ride over to the
Lazy Eight, and see that there tame coyote I got. It licks your hand like a dog.'

"But what could I do, more than what I had done? Nettie was looking at the photograph when
I shut the door on 'em. 'The soul behind the wood and wire,' she murmurs. I looked closer then
and what do you reckon it was? Just as true as I set here, it was Wilbur, leaning forward all
negligent and patronizing on a twelve-hundred-dollar grand piano, his hair well forward and
his eyes masterful, like that there noble instrument was his bond slave. But wait! And underneath
he'd writ a bar of music with notes running up and down, and signed his name to it--not plain,
mind you, though he can write a good business hand if he wants to, but all scrawly like some
one important, so you couldn't tell if it was meant for Dutch or English. Could you beat that
for nerve--in a day, in a million years?

"'What's Wilbur writing that kind of music for?' I asks in a cold voice. 'He don't know that
kind. What he had ought to of written is a bunch of them hollow slats and squares like they
punch in the only kind of music he plays,' I says.

"'Hush!' says Nettie. 'It's that last divine phrase, "To kiss the cross!"'

"I choked up myself then. And I went to bed and thought. And this is what I thought: When you
think you got the winning hand, keep on raising. To call is to admit you got no faith in your
judgment. Better lay down than call. So I resolve not to say another word to the girl about
Chester, but simply to press the song in on her. Already it had made her act like a human person.
Of course I didn't worry none about Wilbur. The wisdom of the ages couldn't have done that.
But I seen I had got to have a real first-class human voice in that song, like the one I had
heard in New York City. They'll just have to clench, I think, when they hear a good A-number-one
voice in it.

"Next day I look in on Wilbur and say, 'What about this concert and musical entertainment the
North Side set is talking about giving for the starving Belgians?'

"'The plans are maturing,' he says, 'but I'm getting up a Brahms concerto that I have promised
to play--you know how terrifically difficult Brahms is--so the date hasn't been set yet.'

"'Well, set it and let's get to work,' I says. And a couple days later he says the lady professional
is engaged, and it'll cost me fifty, and he shows me her picture and the dress is all right,
and she had a sad, powerful face, and the date is set and everything.

"Meantime, I keep them two records het up for the benefit of my reluctant couple: daytime for
Nettie--she standing dreamy-eyed while it was doing, showing she was coming more and more human,
understand--and evenings for both of 'em, when Chester Timmins would call. And Chet himself
about the third night begins to get a new look in his eyes, kind of absent and desperate, so
I thinks this here lady professional will simply goad him to a frenzy. Oh, we had some sad
musical week before that concert! That was when this crazy Chink of mine got took by the song.
He don't know yet what it means, but it took him all right; he got regular besotted with it,
keeping the kitchen door open all the time, so he wouldn't miss a single turn. It took his
mind off his work, too. Talk about the Yellow Peril! He got so locoed with that song one day,
what does he do but peel and cook up twelve dollars' worth of the Piedmont Queen dahlia bulbs
I'd ordered for the front yard. Sure! Served 'em with cream sauce, and we et 'em, thinking
they was some kind of a Chinese vegetable.

"But I was saying about this new look in Chester's eyes, kind of far-off and criminal, when
that song was playing. And then something give me a pause, as they say. Chet showed up one
evening with his nails all manicured; yes, sir, polished till you needed smoked glasses to
look at 'em. I knew all right where he'd been. I may as well tell you that Henry Lehman was
giving Red Gap a flash of form with his new barber shop--tiled floor, plate-glass front, exposed
plumbing, and a manicure girl from Seattle; yes, sir, just like in the great wicked cities.
It had already turned some of our very best homes into domestic hells, and no wonder! Decent,
God-fearing men, who'd led regular lives and had whiskers and grown children, setting down
to a little spindle-legged table with this creature, dipping their clumsy old hands into a
pink saucedish of suds and then going brazenly back to their innocent families with their nails
glittering like piano keys. Oh, that young dame was bound to be a social pet among the ladies
of the town, yes--no? She was pretty and neat figured, with very careful hair, though its colour
had been tampered with unsuccessfully, and she wore little, blue-striped shirtwaists that fitted
very close--you know--with low collars. It was said that she was a good conversationalist and
would talk in low, eager tones to them whose fingers she tooled.

"Still, I didn't think anything of Chester resorting to that sanitary den of vice. All I think
is that he's trying to pretty himself up for Nettie and maybe show her he can be a man-about-town,
like them she has known in Spokane and in Yonkers, New York, at the select home of Mrs. W.B.
Hemingway and her husband. How little we think when we had ought to be thinking our darndest!
Me? I just went on playing them two records, the male barytone and the lady mezzo, and trying
to curse that Chinaman into keeping the kitchen door shut on his cooking, with Wilbur dropping
in now and then so him and Nettie could look at his photo, which was propped up against a book
on the centre table--one of them large three-dollar books that you get stuck with by an agent
and never read--and Nettie dropping into his store now and then to hear him practise over difficult
bits from his piece that he was going to render at the musical entertainment for the Belgians,
with him asking her if she thought he shaded the staccato passage a mite too heavy, or some
guff like that.

"So here come the concert, with every seat sold and the hall draped pretty with flags and cut
flowers. Some of the boys was down from the ranch, and you bet I made 'em all come across for
tickets, and old Safety First--Chet's father--I stuck him for a dollar one, though he had an
evil look in his eyes. That's how the boys got so crazy about this here song. They brought
that record back with 'em. And Buck Devine, that I met on the street that very day of the concert,
he give me another kind of a little jolt. He'd been gossiping round town, the vicious way men
do, and he says to me:

"'That Chester lad is taking awful chances for a man that needs his two hands at his work.
Of course if he was a foot-racer or something like that, where he didn't need hands--' 'What's
all this?' I asks. 'Why,' says Buck, 'he's had his nails rasped down to the quick till he almost
screams if they touch anything, and he goes back for more every single day. It's a wonder they
ain't mortified on him already; and say, it costs him six bits a throw and, of course, he don't
take no change from a dollar--he leaves the extra two bits for a tip. Gee! A dollar a day for
keeping your nails tuned up--and I ain't sure he don't have 'em done twice on Sundays. Mine
ain't never had a file teched to 'em yet,' he says. 'I see that,' I says. 'If any foul-minded
person ever accuses you of it, you got abundant proofs of your innocence right there with you.
As for Chester,' I says, 'he has an object.' 'He has,' says Buck. 'Not what you think,' I says.
'Very different from that. It's true,' I concedes, 'that he ought to take that money and go
to some good osteopath and have his head treated, but he's all right at that. Don't you set
up nights worrying about it.' And I sent Buck slinking off shamefaced but unconvinced, I could
see. But I wasn't a bit scared.

"Chet et supper with us the night of the concert and took Nettie and I to the hall, and you
bet I wedged them two close in next each other when we got to our seats. This was my star play.
If they didn't fall for each other now--Shucks! They had to. And I noticed they was more confidential
already, with Nettie looking at him sometimes almost respectfully.

"Yes, sir, the last thing was this here lady professional, getting up stern and kind of sweetish
sad in her low-cut black dress to sing the song of songs. I was awful excited for a party of
my age, and I see they was, too. Nettie nudged Chet and whispered, 'Don't you just love it?'
And Chet actually says, 'I love it,' so no wonder I felt sure, when up to that time he'd hardly
been able to say a word except about his pa being willing to take them calves for almost nothing.
Then I seen his eyes glaze and point off across the hall, and darned if there wasn't this manicure
party in a cheek little hat and tailored gown, setting with Mrs. Henry Lehman and her husband.
But still I felt all right, because him and Nettie was nudging each other intimately again
when Professor Gluckstein started in on the accompaniment--I bet Wilbur thinks the prof is
awful old-fashioned, playing with his fingers that way; I know they don't speak on the street.

"So this lady just floated into that piece with all the heart stops pulled out, and after one
line I didn't begrudge her a cent of my fifty. I just set there and thrilled. I could feel
Nettie and Chet thrilling, too, and I says, 'There's nothing to it--not from now on.'

"The applause didn't bust loose till almost a minute after she'd kissed the cross in that rich
brown voice of hers, and even then my couple didn't join in. Nettie set still, all frozen and
star-eyed, and Chester was choking and sniffling awful emotionally. 'I've sure nailed the young
fools,' I thinks. And, of course, this lady had to sing it again, and not half through was
she when, sure enough, I glanced down sideways and Chet's right hand and her left hand is squirming
together till they look like a bunch of eels. 'All over but the rice,' I says, and at that
I felt so good and thrilled! I was thinking back to my own time when I was just husband-high,
though that wasn't so little, Lysander John being a scant six foot three--and our wedding tour
to the Centennial and the trip to Niagara Falls--just soaking in old memories that bless and
bind that this lady singer was calling up--well, you could have had anything from me right
then when she kissed that cross a second time, just pouring her torn heart out. 'Worth every
cent of that fifty,' I says.

"Then everybody was standing up and moving out--wiping their eyes a lot of 'em was--so I push
on ahead quick, aiming to be more wily than ever and leave my couple alone. They don't miss
me, either. When I look back, darned if they ain't kind of shaking hands right there in the
hall. 'Quick work!' I says. 'You got to hand it to that song.' Even then I noticed Nettie was
looking back to where Wilbur was tripping down from the platform, and Chester had his eyes
glazed over on this manicure party. Still, they was gripping each other's hands right there
before folks, and I think they're just a bit embarrassed. My old heart went right on echoing
that song as I pushed forward--not looking back again, I was that certain.

"And to show you the mushy state I was in, here is old Safety First himself leering at me down
by the door, with a clean shave and his other clothes on, and he says all about how it was
a grand evening's musical entertainment and how much will the Belgians get in cold cash, anyway,
and how about them hundred and fifty head of bull calves that he was willing to take off my
hands, and me, all mushed up by that song as I am telling you, saying to him in a hearty manner,
'They're yours, Dave! Take 'em at your own price, old friend.' Honest, I said it just that
way, so you can see. 'Oh, I'll be stuck on 'em at fifty a head,' says Dave, 'but I knew you'd
listen to reason, we being such old neighbours.' 'I ain't heard reason since that last song,'
I says. I'm listening to my heart, and it's a grand pity yours never learned to talk.' 'Fifty
a head,' says the old robber.

"So, thus throwing away at least fifteen hundred dollars like it was a mere bagatelle or something,
I walk out into the romantic night and beat it for home, wanting to be in before my happy couple
reached there, so they'd feel free to linger over their parting. My, but I did feel responsible
and dangerous, directing human destinies so brashly the way I had."

There was a pause, eloquent with unworded emotions.

Then "Human destinies, hell!" the lady at length intoned.

Hereupon I amazingly saw that she believed her tale to be done. I permitted the silence to
go a minute, perhaps, while she fingered the cigarette paper and loose tobacco.

"And of course, then," I hinted, as the twin jets of smoke were rather viciously expelled.

"I should say so--'of course, then'--you got it. But I didn't get it for near an hour yet.
I set up to my bedroom window in the dark, waiting excitedly, and pretty soon they slowly floated
up to the front gate, talking in hushed tones and gurgles. 'Male and female created He them,'
I says, flushed with triumph. The moon wasn't up yet, but you hadn't any trouble making out
they was such. He was acting outrageously like a male and she was suffering it with the splendid
courage which has long distinguished our helpless sex. And there I set, warming my old heart
in it and expanding like one of them little squeezed-up sponges you see in the drug-store window
which swells up so astonishing when you put it in water. I wasn't impatient for them to quit,
oh, no! They seemed to clench and unclench and clench again, as if they had all the time in
the world--with me doing nothing but applaud silently.

"After spending about twenty years out there they loitered softly up the walk and round to
the side door where I'd left the light burning, and I slipped over to the side window, which
was also open, and looked down on the dim fond pair, and she finally opened the door softly
and the light shone out."

Again Ma Pettengill paused, her elbows on the arms of her chair, her shoulders forward, her
gray old head low between them. She drew a long breath and rumbled fiercely:

"And the mushy fool me, forcing that herd of calves on old Dave at that scandalous price--after
all, that's what really gaffed me the worst! My stars! If I could have seen that degenerate
old crook again that night--but of course a trade's a trade, and I'd said it. Ain't I the old
silly!"

"The door opened and the light shone out--"

I gently prompted.

She erected herself in the chair, threw back her shoulders, and her wide mouth curved and lifted
at the corners with the humour that never long deserts this woman.

"Yep! That light flooded out its golden rays on the reprehensible person of C. Wilbur Todd,"
she crisply announced. "And like they say in the stories, little remains to be told.

"I let out a kind of strangled yell, and Wilbur beat it right across my new lawn, and I beat
it downstairs. But that girl was like a sleepwalker--not to be talked to, I mean, like you
could talk to persons.

"'Aunty,' she says in creepy tones, 'I have brought myself to the ultimate surrender. I know
the chains are about me, already I feel the shackles, but I glory in them.' She kind of gasped
and shivered in horrible delight. 'I've kissed the cross at last,' she mutters.

"I was so weak I dropped into a chair and I just looked at her. At first I couldn't speak,
then I saw it was no good speaking. She was free, white, and twenty-one. So I never let on.
I've had to take a jolt or two in my time. I've learned how. But finally I did manage to ask
how about Chet Timmins.

"'I wronged dear Chester,' she says. 'I admit it freely. He has a heart of gold and a nature
in a thousand. But, of course, there could never be anything between him and a nature like
mine; our egos function on different planes,' she says. 'Dear Chester came to see it, too.
It's only in the last week we've come to understand each other. It was really that wonderful
song that brought us to our mutual knowledge. It helped us to understand our mutual depths
better than all the ages of eternity could have achieved.' On she goes with this mutual stuff,
till you'd have thought she was reading a composition or something. 'And dear Chester is so
radiant in his own new-found happiness,' she says. 'What!' I yells, for this was indeed some jolt.

"'He has come into his own,' she says. 'They have eloped to Spokane, though I promised to observe
secrecy until the train had gone. A very worthy creature I gather from what Chester tells me,
a Miss Macgillicuddy--'

"'Not the manicure party?' I yells again.

"'I believe she has been a wage-earner,' says Nettie. 'And dear Chester is so grateful about
that song. It was her favourite song, too, and it seemed to bring them together, just as it
opened my own soul to Wilbur. He says she sings the song very charmingly herself, and he thought
it preferable that they be wed in Spokane before his father objected. And oh, aunty, I do see
how blind I was to my destiny, and how kind you were to me in my blindness--you who had led
the fuller life as I shall lead it at Wilbur's side.'

"'You beat it to your room,' I orders her, very savage and disorganized. For I had stood about
all the jolts in one day that God had meant me to. And so they was married, Chester and his
bride attending the ceremony and Oscar Teetz' five-piece orchestra playing the--" She broke
off, with a suddenly blazing glance at the disk, and seized it from the table rather purposefully.
With a hand firmly at both edges she stared inscrutably at it a long moment.

"I hate to break the darned thing," she said musingly at last. "I guess I'll just lock it up.
Maybe some time I'll be feeling the need to hear it again. I know I can still be had by it
if all the circumstances is right."

Still she stared at the thing curiously.

"Gee! It was hot getting them calves out to-day, and old Safety First moaning about all over
the place how he's being stuck with 'em, till more than once I come near forgetting I was a
lady--and, oh, yes"--she brightened--"I was going to tell you. After it was all over, Wilbur,
the gallant young tone poet, comes gushing up to me and says, 'Now, aunty, always when you
are in town you must drop round and break bread with us.' Aunty, mind you, right off the reel.
'Well,' I says, 'if I drop round to break any bread your wife bakes I'll be sure to bring a
hammer.' I couldn't help it. He'll make a home for the girl all right, but he does something
sinful to my nerves every time he opens his face. And then coming back here, where I looked
for God's peace and quiet, and being made to hear that darned song every time I turned round!

"I give orders plain enough, but say, it's like a brush fire--you never know when you got it
stamped out."

From the kitchen came the sound of a dropped armful of stove wood. Hard upon this, the unctuous
whining tenor of Jimmie Time:

    Oh-h-h mem-o-reez thu-hat blu-hess and bu-hurn!

"You, Jimmie Time!" It is a voice meant for Greek tragedy and a theatre open to the heavens.
I could feel the terror of the aged vassal.

"Yes, ma'am!" The tone crawled abasingly. "I forgot myself."

I was glad, and I dare say he had the wit to be, that he had not to face the menace of her glare.

III

THE REAL PERUVIAN DOUGHNUTS

The affairs of Arrowhead Ranch are administered by its owner, Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill,
through a score or so of hired experts. As a trout-fishing guest of the castle I found the
retainers of this excellent feudalism interesting enough and generally explicable. But standing
out among them, both as a spectacle and by reason of his peculiar activities, is a shrunken
little man whom I would hear addressed as Jimmie Time. He alone piqued as well as interested.
There was a tang to all the surmises he prompted in me.

I have said he is a man; but wait! The years have had him, have scoured and rasped and withered
him; yet his face is curiously but the face of a boy, his eyes but the fresh, inquiring, hurt
eyes of a boy who has been misused for years threescore. Time has basely done all but age him.
So much for the wastrel as Nature has left him. But Art has furthered the piquant values of
him as a spectacle.

In dress, speech, and demeanour Jimmie seems to be of the West, Western--of the old, bad West
of informal vendetta, when a man's increase of years might lie squarely on his quickness in
the "draw"; when he went abundantly armed by day and slept lightly at night--trigger fingers
instinctively crooked. Of course such days have very definitely passed; wherefore the engaging
puzzle of certain survivals in Jimmie Time--for I found him still a two-gun man. He wore them
rather consciously sagging from his lean hips--almost pompously, it seemed. Nor did he appear
properly unconscious of his remaining attire--of the broad-brimmed hat, its band of rattlesnake
skin; of the fringed buckskin shirt, opening gallantly across his pinched throat; of his corduroy
trousers, fitting bedraggled; of his beautiful beaded moccasins.

He was perfect in detail--and yet he at once struck me as being too acutely aware of himself.
Could this suspicion ensue, I wondered, from the circumstance that the light duties he discharged
in and about the Arrowhead Ranch house were of a semidomestic character; from a marked incongruity
in the sight of him, full panoplied for homicide, bearing armfuls of wood to the house; or,
with his wicked hat pulled desperately over a scowling brow, and still with his flaunt of weapons,
engaging a sinkful of soiled dishes in the kitchen under the eyes of a mere unarmed Chinaman
who sat by and smoked an easy cigarette at him, scornful of firearms?

There were times, to be sure, when Jimmie's behaviour was in nice accord with his dreadful
appearance--as when I chanced to observe him late the second afternoon of my arrival. Solitary
in front of the bunk house, he rapidly drew and snapped his side arms at an imaginary foe some
paces in front of him. They would be simultaneously withdrawn from their holsters, fired from
the hip and replaced, the performer snarling viciously the while. The weapons were unloaded,
but I inferred that the foe crumpled each time.

Then the old man varied the drama, vastly increasing the advantage of the foe and the peril
of his own emergency by turning a careless back on the scene. The carelessness was only seeming.
Swiftly he wheeled, and even as he did so twin volleys came from the hip. It was spirited--the
weapons seemed to smoke; the smile of the marksman was evil and masterly. Beyond all question
the foe had crumpled again, despite his tremendous advantage of approach.

I drew gently near before the arms were again holstered and permitted the full exposure of
my admiration for this readiness of retort under difficulties. The puissant one looked up at
me with suspicion, hostile yet embarrassed. I stood admiring ingenuously, stubborn in my fascination.
Slowly I won him. The coldness in his bright little eyes warmed to awkward but friendly apology.

"A gun fighter lets hisself git stiff," he winningly began; "then, first thing he knows, some
fine day--crack! Like that! All his own fault, too, 'cause he ain't kep' in trim." He jauntily
twirled one of the heavy revolvers on a forefinger. "Not me, though, pard! Keep m'self up and
comin', you bet! Ketch me not ready to fan the old forty-four! I guess not! Some has thought
they could. Oh, yes; plenty has thought they could. Crack! Like that!" He wheeled, this time
fatally intercepting the foe as he treacherously crept round a corner of the bunk house. "Buryin'
ground for you, mister! That's all--bury-in' ground!"

The desperado replaced one of the weapons and patted the other with grisly affection. In the
excess of my admiration I made bold to reach for it. He relinquished it to me with a mother's
yearning. And all too legible in the polished butt of the thing were notches! Nine sinister
notches I counted--not fresh notches, but emphatic, eloquent, chilling. I thrust the bloody
record back on its gladdened owner.

"Never think it to look at me?" said he as our eyes hung above that grim bit of bookkeeping.

"Never!" I warmly admitted.

"Me--I always been one of them quiet, mild-mannered ones that you wouldn't think butter would
melt in their mouth--jest up to a certain point. Lots of 'em fooled that way about me--jest
up to a certain point, mind you--then, crack! Buryin' ground--that's all! Never go huntin'
trouble--understand? But when it's put on me--say!"

He lovingly replaced the weapon--with its mortuary statistics--doffed the broad-brimmed hat
with its snake-skin garniture, and placed a forefinger athwart an area of his shining scalp
which is said by a certain pseudoscience to shield several of man's more spiritual attributes.
The finger traced an ancient but still evil looking scar.

"One creased me there," he confessed--"a depity marshal--that time they had a reward out for
me, dead or alive."

I was for details.

"What did you do?"

Jimmie Time stayed laconic.

"Left him there--that's all!"

It was arid, yet somehow informing. It conveyed to me that a marshal had been cleverly put
to needing a new deputy.

"Burying ground?" I guessed.

"That's all!" He laughed venomously--a short, dry, restrained laugh. "They give me a nickname,"
said he. "They called me Little Sure Shot. No wonder they did! Ho! I should think they would
of called me something like that." He lifted his voice. "Hey! Boogles!"

I had been conscious of a stooping figure in the adjacent vegetable garden. It now became erect,
a figure of no distinction--short, rounded, decked in carelessly worn garments of no elegance.
It slouched inquiringly toward us between rows of sprouted corn. Then I saw that the head surmounting
it was a noble head. It was uncovered, burnished to a half circle of grayish fringe; but it
was shaped in the grand manner and well borne, and the full face of it was beautified by features
of a very Roman perfection. It was the face of a judge of the Supreme Court or the face of
an ideal senator. His large grave eyes bathed us in a friendly regard; his full lips of an
orator parted with leisurely and promising unction. I awaited courtly phrases, richly rounded
periods.

"A regular hell-cat--what he is!"

Thus vocalized the able lips. Jimmie Time glowed modestly.

"Show him how I can shoot," said he.

The amazing Boogies waddled--yet with dignity--to a point ten paces distant, drew a coin from
the pocket of his dingy overalls, and spun it to the blue of heaven. Ere it fell the deadly
weapon bore swiftly on it and snapped.

"Crack!" said the marksman grimly.

His assistant recovered the coin, scrutinized it closely, rubbed a fat thumb over its supposedly
dented surface, and again spun it. The desperado had turned his back. He drew as he wheeled,
and again I was given to understand that his aim had been faultless.

"Good Little Sure Shot!" declaimed Boogies fulsomely.

"Hold it in your hand oncet," directed Little Sure Shot. The intrepid assistant gallantly extended
the half dollar at arm's length between thumb and finger and averted his statesman's face with
practiced apprehension. "Crack!" said Little Sure Shot, and the coin seemed to be struck from
the unscathed hand. "Only nicked the aidge of it," said he, genially deprecating. "I don't
like to take no chancet with the lad's mitt."

It had indeed been a pretty display of sharpshooting--and noiseless.

"Had me nervous, you bet, first time he tried that," called Boogles. "Didn't know his work
then. Thought sure he'd wing me."

Jimmie Time loftily ejected imaginary shells from his trusty firearm and seemed to expel smoke
from its delicate interior. Boogies waddled his approach.

"Any time they back Little Sure Shot up against the wall they want to duck," said he warmly.
"He has 'em hard to find in about a minute. Tell him about that fresh depity marshal, Jimmie."

"I already did," said Jimmie.

"Ain't he the hell-cat?" demanded Boogles, mopping a brow that Daniel Webster would have observed
with instant and perhaps envious respect.

"I been a holy terror in my time, all right, all right!" admitted the hero. "Never think it
to look at me though. One o' the deceivin' kind till I'm put upon; then--good-night!"

"Jest like that!" murmured Boogles.

"Buryin' ground--that's all." The lips of the bad man shut grimly on this.

"Say," demanded Boogles, "on the level, ain't he the real Peruvian doughnuts? Don't he jest
make 'em all hunt their--" The tribute was unfinished.

"You ol' Jim! You ol' Jim Time!" Shrilly this came from Lew Wee, Chinese cook of the Arrowhead
framed in the kitchen doorway of the ranch house. He brandished a scornful and commanding dish
towel at the bad man, who instantly and almost cravenly cowered under the distant assault.
The garment of his old bad past fell from him, leaving him as one exposed in the market-place
to the scornful towels of Chinamen. "You run, ol' Jim Time! How you think catch 'um din' not
have wood?"

"Now I was jest goin' to," mumbled Jimmie Time; and he amazingly slunk from the scene of his
late triumphs toward the open front of a woodhouse.

His insulter turned back to the kitchen with a final affronting flourish of the towel. The
whisper of Boogles came hoarsely to me: "Some of these days Little Sure Shot'll put a dose
o' cold lead through that Chink's heart."

"Is he really dangerous?" I demanded.

"Dangerous!" Boogles choked warmly on this. "Let me tell you, that old boy is the real Peruvian
doughnuts, and no mistake! Some day there won't be so many Chinks round this dump. No, sir-ee!
That little cutthroat'll have another notch in his gun."

The situation did indeed seem to brim with the cheerfullest promise; yet something told me
that Little Sure Shot was too good, too perfect. Something warned me that he suffered delusions
of grandeur--that he fell, in fact, somewhat short of being the real doughnuts, either of a
Peruvian or any other valued sort.

Nor had many hours passed ere it befell emphatically even so. There had been the evening meal,
followed by an hour or so of the always pleasing and often instructive talk of my hostess,
Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill, who has largely known life for sixty years and found it entertaining
and good. And we had parted at an early nine, both tired from the work and the play that had
respectively engaged us the day long.

My candle had just been extinguished when three closely fired shots cracked the vast stillness
of the night. Ensued vocal explosions of a curdling shrillness from the back of the house.
One instantly knew them to be indignant and Chinese. Caucasian ears gathered this much. I looked
from an open window as the impassioned cries came nearer. The lucent moon of the mountains
flooded that side of the house, and starkly into its light from round the nearest corner struggled
Lew Wee, the Chinaman. He shone refulgent, being yet in the white or full-dress uniform of
his calling.

In one hand he held the best gun of Jimmie Time; in the other--there seemed to be a well-gripped
connection with the slack of a buckskin shirt--writhed the alleged real doughnuts of a possibly
Peruvian character. The captor looked aloft and remained vocal, waving the gun, waving Jimmie
Time, playing them together as cymbals, never loosening them. It was fine. It filled the eye
and appeased the deepest longings of the ear.

Then from a neighbouring window projected the heroic head and shoulders of my hostess, and
there boomed into the already vivacious libretto a passionate barytone, or thereabout, of sterling
timbre.

"What in the name of--"

I leave it there. To do so is not only kind but necessary. The most indulgent censor that ever
guarded the columns of a print intended for young and old about the evening lamp would swiftly
delete from this invocation, if not the name of Deity itself, at least the greater number of
the attributes with which she endowed it. A few were conventional enough, but they served only
to accentuate others that were too hastily selected in the heat of this crisis. Enough to say
that the lady overbore by sheer mass of tone production the strident soprano of Lew Wee, controlling
it at length to a lucid disclosure of his grievance.

From the doorway of his kitchen, inoffensively proffering a final cigarette to the radiant
night, he had been the target of three shots with intent to kill. He submitted the weapon.
He submitted the writhing assassin.

"I catch 'um!" he said effectively, and rested his case.

"Now--I aimed over his head." It was Jimmie Time alias Little Sure Shot, and he whimpered the
words. "I jest went to play a sell on him."

The voice of the judge boomed wrathfully on this:

"You darned pestering mischief, you! Ain't I forbid you time and again ever to load them guns?
Where'd you get the ca'tridges?"

"Now--I found 'em," pleaded the bad man. "I did so; I found 'em."

"Cooned 'em, you mean!" thundered the judge. "You cooned 'em from Buck or Sandy. Don't tell
me, you young reprobate!"

"He all like bad man," submitted the prosecution. "I tell 'um catch stlovewood; he tell 'um
me: 'You go to haitch!' I tell 'um: 'You ownself go to haitch! He say: 'I flan you my gun plitty
soon!' He do."

"I aimed over the coward's head," protested the defendant.

"Can happen!" sanely objected the prosecution.

"Ain't I told you what I'd do if you loaded them guns?" roared the judge. "Gentle, limping,
baldheaded--" [Deleted by censor.] "How many more times I got to tell you? Now you know what
you'll get. You'll get your needings--that's what you'll get! All day to-morrow! You hear me?
You'll wear 'em all day to-morrow! Put 'em on first thing in the morning and wear 'em till
sundown. No hiding out, neither! Wear 'em where folks can see what a bad boy you are. And swearing,
too! I got to be 'shamed of you! Yes, sir! Everybody'll know how 'shamed I am to have a tough
kid like you on the place. I won't be able to hold my head up. You wear 'em!"

"I--I--I aimed above--" Jimmie Time broke down. He was weeping bitterly. His captor released
him with a final shake, and he brought a forearm to his streaming eyes.

"You'll wear 'em all day to-morrow!" again thundered the judge as the culprit sobbed a stumbling
way into obscurity.

"You'self go to haitch!" the unrelenting complainant called after him.

The judge effected a rumbling withdrawal. The night was again calm. Then I slept on the problem
of the Arrowhead's two-gun bad man. It seemed now pretty certain that the fatuous Boogles had
grossly overpraised him. I must question his being the real doughnuts of any sort--even the
mildest--much less the real Peruvian. But what was "'em" that in degrading punishment and to
the public shame of the Arrowhead he must wear on the morrow? What, indeed, could "'em" be?

I woke, still pondering the mystery. Nor could I be enlightened during my breakfast, for this
was solitary, my hostess being long abroad to far places of the Arrowhead, and the stolid mask
of Lew Wee inviting no questions.

Breakfast over, I stationed myself in the bracing sunlight that warmed the east porch and aimlessly
overhauled a book of flies. To three that had proved most popular in the neighbouring stream
I did small bits of mending, ever with a questing eye on adjacent outbuildings, where Little
Sure Shot--née Time--might be expected to show himself, wearing "'em."

A blank hour elapsed. I no longer affected occupation with the flies. Jimmie Time was irritating
me. Had he not been specifically warned to "wear 'em" full shamefully in the public eye? Was
not the public eye present, avid? Boogles I saw intermittently among beanpoles in the garden.
He appeared to putter, to have no care or system in his labour. And at moments I noticed he
was dropping all pretense of this to stand motionless, staring intently at the shut door of
the stable.

Could his fallen idol be there, I wondered? Purposefully I also watched the door of the stable.
Presently it opened slightly; then, with evident infinite caution, it was pushed outward until
it hung half yawning. A palpitant moment we gazed, Boogles and I. Then shot from the stable
gloom an astounding figure in headlong flight. Its goal appeared to be the bunk house fifty
yards distant; but its course was devious, laid clearly with a view to securing such incidental
brief shelter as would be afforded by the corral wall, by a meagre clump of buck-brush, by
a wagon, by a stack of hay. Good time was made, however. The fugitive vanished into the bunk
house and the door of that structure was slammed to. But now the small puzzle I had thought
to solve had grown to be, in that brief space--easily under eight seconds--a mystery of enormous,
of sheerly inhuman dimensions. For the swift and winged one had been all too plainly a correctly
uniformed messenger boy of the Western Union Telegraph Company--that blue uniform with metal
buttons, with the corded red at the trouser sides, the flat cap fronted by a badge of nickel--unthinkable,
yet there. And the speedy bearer of this scenic investiture had been the desperate, blood-letting,
two-gun bad man of the Arrowhead.

It was a complication not to be borne with any restraint. I hastened to stand before the shut
door of the sanctuary. It slept in an unpromising stillness. Invincibly reticent it seemed,
even when the anguished face of Jimmie Time, under that incredible cap with its nickeled badge,
wavered an instant back of the grimy window--wavered and vanished with an effect of very stubborn
finality. I would risk no defeat there. I passed resolutely on to Boogles, who now most diligently
trained up tender young bean vines in the way they should go.

"Why does he hide in there?" I demanded in a loud, indignant voice. I was to have no nonsense
about it.

Boogles turned on me the slow, lofty, considering regard of a United States senator submitting
to photography for publication in a press that has no respect for private rights. He lacked
but a few clothes and the portico of a capitol. Speech became immanent in him. One should not
have been surprised to hear him utter decorative words meant for the rejoicing and incitement
of voters. Yet he only said--or started to say:

"Little Sure Shot'll get that Chink yet! I tell you, now, that old boy is sure the real Peruvian--"

This was absurdly too much. I then and there opened on Boogles, opened flooding gates of wrath
and scorn on him--for him and for his idol of clay who, I flatly told him, could not be the
real doughnuts of any sort. As for his being the real Peruvian--Faugh!

Often I had wished to test in speech the widely alleged merits of this vocable. I found it
do all that has been claimed for it. Its effect on Boogles was so withering that I used it
repeatedly in the next three minutes. I even faughed him twice in succession, which is very
insulting and beneficial indeed, and has a pleasant feel on the lips.

"And now then," I said, "if you don't give me the truth of this matter here and now, one of
us two is going to be mighty sorry for it."

In the early moments of my violence Boogles had protested weakly; then he began to quiver perilously.
On this I soothed him, and at the precisely right moment I cajoled. I lured him to the bench
by the corral gate, and there I conferred costly cigarettes on him as man to man. Discreetly
then I sounded for the origins of a certain bad man who had a way--even though they might crease
him--of leaving deputy marshals where he found them. Boogles smoked one of the cigarettes before
he succumbed; but first:

"Let me git my work," said he, and was off to the bunk house.

I observed his part in an extended parley before the door was opened to him. He came to me
on the bench a moment later, bearing a ball of scarlet yarn, a large crochet hook of bone,
and something begun in the zephyr but as yet without form.

"I'm making the madam a red one for her birthday," he confided.

He bent his statesman's head above the task and wrought with nimble fingers the while he talked.
It was difficult, this talk of his, scattered, fragmentary; and his mind would go from it,
his voice expire untimely. He must be prompted, recalled, questioned. His hands worked with
a very certain skill, but in his narrative he dropped stitches. Made to pick these up, the
result was still a droning monotony burdened with many irrelevancies. I am loath to transcribe
his speech. It were better reported with an eye strictly to salience.

You may see, then--and I hope with less difficulty than I had in seeing--Jimmie Time and Boogles
on night duty at the front of the little Western Union Office off Park Row in the far city
of New York. The law of that city is tender to the human young. Night messenger boys must be
adults. It is one of the preliminary shocks to the visitor--to ring for the messenger boy of
tradition and behold in his uniform a venerable gentleman with perhaps a flowing white beard.
I still think Jimmie Time and Boogles were beating the law--on a technicality. Of course Jimmie
was far descended into the vale of years, and even Boogles was forty--but adults!

It is three o'clock of a warm spring morning. The two legal adults converse in whispers, like
bad boys kept after school. They whisper so as not to waken the manager, a blasé, mature youth
of twenty who sleeps expertly in the big chair back of the railing. They whisper of the terrific
hazards and the precarious rewards of their adventurous calling. The hazards are nearly all
provided by the youngsters who come on the day watch--hardy ruffians of sixteen or so who not
only "pick on" these two but, with sportive affectations, often rob them, when they change
from uniform to civilian attire, of any spoil the night may have brought them. They are powerless
against these aggressions. They can but whisper their indignation.

Boogles eyed the sleeping manager.

"I struck it fine to-night, Jimmie!" he whispered. Jimmie mutely questioned. "Got a whole case
note. You know that guy over to the newspaper office--the one that's such a tank drama--he
had to send a note up to a girl in a show that he couldn't be there."

"That tank drama? Sure, I know him. He kids me every time he's stewed."

"He kids me, too, something fierce; and he give me the case note."

"Them strong arms'll cop it on you when they get here," warned Jimmie.

"Took my collar off and hid her on the inside of it. Oh, I know tricks!"

"Chee! You're all to the Wall Street!"

"I got to look out for my stepmother, too. She'd crown me with a chair if she thought I held
out on her. Beans me about every day just for nothing anyway."

"Don't you stand for it!"

"Yah! All right for you to talk. You're the lucky guy. You're an orphan. S'pose you had a stepmother!
I wish I was an orphan."

Jimmie swelled with the pride of orphanship.

"Yes; I'd hate to have any parents knocking me round," he said. "But if it ain't a stepmother
then it's somebody else that beans you. A guy in this burg is always getting knocked round
by somebody."

"Read some more of the novel," pleaded Boogles, to change the distressing topic.

Jimmie drew a tattered paper romance from the pocket of his faded coat and pushed the cap back
from his seamed old forehead. It went back easily, having been built for a larger head than
his. He found the place he had marked at the end of his previous half-hour with literature.
Boogles leaned eagerly toward him. He loved being read to. Doing it himself was too slow and
painful:

"'No,' said our hero in a clear, ringing voice; 'all your tainted gold would not keep me here
in the foul, crowded city. I must have the free, wild life of the plains, the canter after
the Texas steers, and the fierce battles with my peers. For me the boundless, the glorious West!'"

"Chee! It must be something grand--that wild life!" interrupted Boogles. "That's the real stuff--the
cowboy and trapper on them peraries, hunting bufflers and Injuns. I seen a film--"

Jimmie Time frowned at this. He did not like interruptions. He firmly resumed the tale:

"With a gesture of disdain our hero waved aside the proffered gold of the scoundrelly millionaire
and dashed down the stairway of the proud mansion to where his gallant steed, Midnight, was
champing at the hitching post. At that moment--"

Romance was snatched from the hands of Jimmie Time. The manager towered above him.

"Ain't I told you guys not to be taking up the company's time with them novels?" he demanded.
He sternly returned to his big chair behind the railing, where he no less sternly took up his
own perusal of the confiscated tale.

"The big stiff!" muttered Jimmie. "That's the third one he's copped on me this week. A kid
in this choint ain't got no rights! I got a good notion to throw 'em down cold and go with
the Postal people."

"Never mind! I'll blow you to an ice cream after work," consoled Boogles.

"Ice cream!" Jimmie Time was contemptuous. "I want the free, wild life of the boundless peraries.
I want b'ar steaks br'iled on the glowing coals of the camp fire. I want to be Little Sure
Shot, trapper, scout, and guide--"

"Next out!" yelled the manager. "Hustle now!"

Jimmie Time was next out. He hustled sullenly.

Boogles, alone, slept fitfully on his bench until the young thugs of the day watch straggled
in. Then he achieved the change of his uniform to civilian garments, with only the accustomed
minor maltreatment at the hands of these tormentors. True, with sportive affectations--yet
with deadly intentness--they searched him for possible loot; but only his pockets. His dollar
bill, folded inside his collar, went unfound. With assumed jauntiness he strolled from the
outlaws' den and safely reached the street.

The gilding on the castellated towers of the tallest building in the world dazzled his blinking,
foolish eyes. That was a glorious summit which sang to the new sun, but no higher than his
own elation at the moment. Had he not come off with his dollar? He found balm and a tender
stimulus in the morning air--an air for dreams and revolt. Boogles felt this as thousands of
others must have felt it who were yet tamely issuing from subway caverns and the Brooklyn Bridge
to be wage slaves.

A block away from the office he encountered Jimmie Time, who seemed to await him importantly.
He seethed with excitement.

"I got one, too!" he called. "That tank drama he sent another note uptown to a restaurant where
a party was, and he give me a case note, too."

He revealed it; and when Boogles withdrew his own treasure the two were lovingly compared and
admired. Nothing in all the world can be so foul to the touch as the dollar bill that circulates
in New York, but these two were intrepidly fondled.

"I ain't going back to change," said Jimmie Time. "Them other kids would cop it on me."

"Have some cigarettes," urged Boogies, and royally bought them--with gilded tips, in a beautiful
casket.

"I had about enough of their helling," declared Jimmie, still glowing with a fine desperation.

They sought the William Street Tunnel under the Brooklyn Bridge. It was cool and dark there.
One might smoke and take his ease. And plan! They sprawled on the stone pavement and smoked
largely.

"Chee! If we could get out West and do all them fine things!" mused Boogies.

"Let's!" said Jimmie Time.

"Huh!" Boogies gasped blankly at this.

"Let's beat it!"

"Chee!" said Boogies. He stared at this bolder spirit with startled admiration.

"Me--I'm going," declared Jimmie Time stoutly, and waited.

Boogies wavered a tremulous moment.

"I'm going with you," he managed at last.

He blurted the words. They had to rush out to beat down his native caution with quick blows.

"Listen!" said Jimmie Time impressively. "We got money enough to start. Then we just strike
out for the peraries."

"Like the guy in the story!" Boogies glowed at the adept who before his very eyes was turning
a beautiful dream into stark reality. He was praying that his own courage to face it would endure.

"You hurry home," commanded Jimmie, "and cop an axe and all the grub you can lay your hands on."

Boogies fell from the heights as he had feared he would.

"Aw, chee!" he said sanely. "And s'pose me stepmother gets her lamps on me! Wouldn't she bean
me? Sure she would!"

"Bind her and gag her," said Jimmie promptly. "What's one weak woman?"

"Yah! She's a hellion and you know it."

"Listen!" said Jimmie sternly. "If you're going into the wild and lawless life of the peraries
with me you got to learn to get things. Jesse James or Morgan's men could get me that axe and
that grub, and not make one-two-three of it."

"Them guys had practice--and likely they never had to go against their stepmothers."

"Do I go alone, then?"

"Well, now--"

"Will you or won't you?"

Boogies drew a fateful breath.

"I'll take a chance. You wait here. If I ain't back in one hour you'll know I been murdered."

"Good, my man!" said Jimmie Time with the air of an outlaw chief. "Be off at once."

Boogies was off. And Boogies was back in less than the hour with a delectable bulging meal
sack. He was trembling but radiant.

"She seen me gitting away and she yelled her head off," he gasped; "but you bet I never stopped.
I just thought of Jesse James and General Grant, and run like hell!"

"Good, my man!" said Jimmie Time; and then, with a sudden gleam of the practical, he inventoried
the commissary and quartermaster supplies in the sack. He found them to be: One hatchet; one
well-used boiled hambone; six greasy sugared crullers; four dill pickles; a bottle of catchup;
two tomatoes all but obliterated in transit; two loaves of bread; a flatiron.

Jimmie cast the last item from him.

"Wh'd you bring that for?" he demanded.

"I don't know," confessed Boogies. "I just put it in. Mebbe I was afraid she'd throw it at
me when I was making my getaway. It'll be good for cracking nuts if we find any on the peraries.
I bet they have nuts!"

"All right, then. You can carry it if you want to, pard."

Jimmie thrust the bundle into Boogies' arms and valiantly led a desperate way to the North
River. Boogies panted under his burden as they dodged impatient taxicabs. So they came into
the maze of dock traffic by way of Desbrosses Street. The eyes of both were lit by adventure.
Jimmie pushed through the crowd on the wharf to a ticket office. A glimpse through a door of
the huge shed had given him inspiration. No common ferryboats for them! He had seen the stately
river steamer, Robert Fulton, gay with flags and bunting, awaiting the throng of excursionists.
He recklessly bought tickets. So far, so good. A momentous start had been made.

At this very interesting point in his discourse to me, however, Boogies began to miss explosions
too frequently. From the disorderly jumble of his narrative to this moment I believe I have
brought something like the truth; I have caused the widely scattered parts to cohere. After
this I could make little of his maunderings.

They were on the crowded boat and the boat steamed up the Hudson River; and they disembarked
at a thriving Western town--which, I gather, was Yonkers--because Boogies feared his stepmother
might trace him to this boat, and because Jimmie Time became convinced that detectives were
on his track, wanting him for the embezzlement of a worn but still practicable uniform of the
Western Union Telegraph Company. So it was agreed that they should take to the trackless forest,
where there are ways of throwing one's pursuers off the scent; where they would travel by night,
guided by the stars, and lay up by day, subsisting on spring water and a little pemmican--source
undisclosed. They were not going to be taken alive--that was understood.

They hurried through the streets of this thriving Western town, ultimately boarding an electric
car--with a shrewd eye out for the hellhounds of the law; and the car took them to the beginning
of the frontier, where they found the trackless forest. They reached the depths of this forest
after climbing a stone wall; and Jimmie Time said the West looked good to him and that he could
already smell the "b'ar steaks br'iling."

Plain enough still, perhaps; but immediately it seemed that a princess had for some time been
sharing this great adventure. She was a beautiful golden-haired princess, though quite small,
and had flowers in her hair and put some in the cap of Jimmie Time--behind the nickel badge--and
said she would make him her court dwarf or jester or knight, or something; only the scout who
was with her said this was rather silly and that they had better be getting home or they knew
very well what would happen to them. But when they got lost Jimmie Time looked at this scout's
rifle and said it was a first-class rifle, and would knock an Indian or a wild animal silly.

And the scout smoked a cigarette and got sick by it, and cried something fierce; so they made
a fire, and the princess didn't get sick when she smoked hers, but told them a couple of bully
stories, like reading in a book, and ate every one of the greasy sugared crullers, because
she was a genuine princess, and Boogies thought at this time that maybe the boundless West
wasn't what it was cracked up to be; so, after they met the madam, the madam said, well, if
they was wanting to go out West they might as well come along here; and they said all right--as
long as they was wanting to go out West anyway, why, they might as well come along with her
as with anybody else.

And that Chink would mighty soon find out if Little Sure Shot wasn't the real Peruvian doughnuts,
because that old murderer would sure have him hard to find, come sundown; still, he was glad
he had come along with the madam, because back there it wasn't any job for you, account of
getting too fat for the uniform, with every one giving you the laugh that way--and they wouldn't
get you a bigger one--.

I left Boogies then, though he seemed not to know it. His needle worked swiftly on the red
one he was making for the madam, and his aimless, random phrases seemed to flow as before;
but I knew now where to apply for the details that had been too many for his slender gift of
narrative.

At four that afternoon Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill, accompanied by one Buck Devine, a valued
retainer, rode into the yard and dismounted. She at once looked searchingly about her. Then
she raised her voice, which is a carrying voice even when not raised: "You, Jimmie Time!"

Once was enough. The door of the bunk house swung slowly open and the disgraced one appeared
in all his shameful panoply. The cap was pulled well down over a face hopelessly embittered.
The shrunken little figure drooped.

"None of that hiding out!" admonished his judge. "You keep standing round out here where decent
folks can look at you and see what a bad boy you are."

With a glance she identified me as one of the decent she would have edified. Jimmie Time muttered
evilly in undertones and slouched forward, head down.

"Ain't he the hostile wretch?" called Buck Devine, who stood with the horses. He spoke with
a florid but false admiration.

Jimmie Time, snarling, turned on him: "You go to--."

I perceived that Lew Wee the night before had delicately indicated by a mere initial letter
a bad word that could fall trippingly from the lips of Jimmie.

"Sure!" agreed Buck Devine cordially. "And say, take this here telegram up to the corner of
Broadway and Harlem; and move lively now--don't you stop to read any of them nickel liberries."

I saw what a gentleman should do. I turned my back on the piteous figure of Jimmie Time. I
moved idly off, as if the spectacle of his ignominy had never even briefly engaged me.

"Shoot up a good cook, will you?" said the lady grimly. "I'll give you your needings." She
followed me to the house.

On the west porch, when she had exchanged the laced boots, khaki riding breeches, and army
shirt for a most absurdly feminine house gown, we had tea. Her nose was powdered, and her slippers
were bronzed leather and monstrous small. She mingled Scotch whiskey with the tea and drank
her first cupful from a capacious saucer.

"That fresh bunch of campers!" she began. "What you reckon they did last night? Cut my wire
fence in two places over on the west flat--yes, sir!--had a pair of wire clippers in the whip
socket. What I didn't give 'em! Say, ain't it a downright wonder I still retain my girlish
laughter?"

But then, after she had refused my made cigarette for one of her own deft handiwork, she spoke
as I wished her to:

"Yes; three years ago. Me visiting a week at the home of Mrs. W.B. Hemingway and her husband,
just outside of Yonkers, back in York State. A very nice swell home, with a nice front yard
and everything. And also Mrs. W.B.'s sister and her little boy, visiting her from Albany, the
sister's name being Mrs. L.H. Cummins, and the boy being nine years old and named Rupert Cummins,
Junior; and very junior he was for his age, too--I will say that. He was a perfectly handsome
little boy; but you might call him a blubberhead if you wanted to, him always being scared
silly and pestered and rough-housed out of his senses by his little girl cousin, Margery Hemingway--Mrs.
W.B.'s little girl, you understand--and her only seven, or two years younger than Junior, but
leading him round into all kinds of musses till his own mother was that demoralized after a
couple of days she said if that Margery child was hers she'd have her put away in some good
institution.

"Of course she only told that to me, not to Margery's mother. I don't know--mebbe she would
of put her away, she was that frightened little Margery would get Junior killed off in some
horrible manner, like the time she got him to see how high he dast jump out of the apple tree
from, or like the time she told him, one ironing day, that if he drank a whole bowlful of starch
it would make him have whiskers like his pa in fifteen minutes. Things like that--not fatal,
mebbe, but wearing.

"Well, this day come a telegram about nine A.M. for Mrs. W.B., that her aunt, with money, is
very sick in New Jersey, which is near Yonkers; so she and Mrs. L.H. Cummins, her sister, must
go to see about this aunt--and would I stay and look after the two kids and not let them get
poisoned or killed or anything serious? And they might have to stay overnight, because the
aunt was eccentric and often thought she was sick; but this time she might be right. She was
worth all the way from three to four hundred thousand dollars.

"So I said I'd love to stay and look after the little ones. I wanted to stay. Shopping in New
York City the day before, two bargain sales--one being hand-embroidered Swiss waists from two-ninety-eight
upward--I felt as if a stampede of longhorns had caught me. Darned near bedfast I was! Say,
talk about the pale, weak, nervous city woman with exhausted vitality! See 'em in action first,
say I. There was a corn-fed hussy in a plush bonnet with forget-me-nots, two hundred and thirty
or forty on the hoof, that exhausted my vitality all right--no holds barred, an arm like first-growth
hick'ry across my windpipe, and me up against a solid pillar of structural ironwork! Once I
was wrastled by a cinnamon bear that had lately become a mother; but the poor old thing would
have lost her life with this dame after the hand-embroidereds. Gee! I was lame in places I'd
lived fifty-eight years and never knew I had.

"So off went these ladies, with Mrs. L.H. Cummins giving me special and private warning to
be sure and keep Junior well out of it in case little mischievous Margery started anything
that would be likely to kill her. And I looked forward to a quiet day on the lounge, where
I could ache in peace and read the 'Famous Crimes of History,' which the W.B.'s had in twelve
volumes--you wouldn't have thought there was that many, would you? I dressed soft, out of respect
to my corpse, and picked out a corking volume of these here Crimes and lay on the big lounge
by an open window where the breeze could soothe me and where I could keep tabs on the little
ones at their sports; and everything went as right as if I had been in some A-Number-One hospital
where I had ought to of been.

"Lunchtime come before I knew it; and I had mine brought to my bed of pain by the Swede on
a tray, while the kids et theirs in an orderly and uproarious manner in the dining-room. Rupert,
Junior, was dressed like one of these boy scouts and had his air gun at the table with him,
and little Margery was telling him there was, too, fairy princes all round in different places;
and she bet she could find one any day she wanted to. They seemed to be all safe enough, so
I took up my Crimes again. Really, ain't history the limit?--the things they done in it and
got away with--never even being arrested or fined or anything!

"Pretty soon I could hear the merry prattle of the little ones again out in the side yard.
Ain't it funny how they get the gambling spirit so young? I'd hear little Margery say: 'I bet
you can't!' And Rupert, Junior, would say:' I bet I can, too!' And off they'd go ninety miles
on a straight track: 'I bet you'd be afraid to!'--'I bet I wouldn't be!'--'I bet you'd run
as fast!'--'I bet I never would!' Ever see such natural-born gamblers? And it's all about what
Rupert, Junior, would do if he seen a big tiger in some woods--Rupert betting he'd shoot it
dead, right between the eyes, and Margery taking the other end. She has by far the best end
of it, I think, it being at least a forty-to-one shot that Rupert, the boy scout, is talking
high and wide. And I drop into the Crimes again at a good, murderous place with stilettos.

"I can't tell even now how it happened. All I know is that it was two o'clock, and all at once
it was five-thirty P.M. by a fussy gold clock over on the mantel with a gold young lady, wearing
a spear, standing on top of it. I woke up without ever suspicioning that I'd been asleep. Anyway,
I think I'm feeling better, and I stretch, though careful, account of the dame in the plush
bonnet with forget-me-nots; and I lie there thinking mebbe I'll enter the ring again to-morrow
for some other truck I was needing, and thinking how quiet and peaceful it is--how awful quiet!
I got it then, all right. That quiet! If you'd known little Margery better you'd know how sick
that quiet made me all at once. My gizzard or something turned clean over.

"I let out a yell for them kids right where I lay. Then I bounded to my feet and run through
the rooms downstairs yelling. No sign of 'em! And out into the kitchen--and here was Tillie,
the maid, and Yetta, the cook, both saying it's queer, but they ain't heard a sound of 'em
either, for near an hour. So I yelled out back to an old hick of a gardener that's deef, and
he comes running; but he don't know a thing on earth about the kids or anything else. Then
I am sick! I send Tillie one way along the street and the gardener the other way to find out
if any neighbours had seen 'em. Then in a minute this here Yetta, the cook, says: 'Why, now,
Miss Margery was saying she'd go downtown to buy some candy,' and Yetta says: 'You know, Miss
Margery, your mother never 'ets you have candy.' And Margery says: 'Well, she might change
her mind any minute--you can't tell; and it's best to have some on hand in case she does.'
And she'd got some poker chips out of the box to buy the candy with--five blue chips she had,
knowing they was nearly money anyway.

"And when Yetta seen it was only poker chips she knew the kid couldn't buy candy with 'em--not
even in Yonkers; so she didn't think any more about it until it come over her--just like that--how
quiet everything was. Oh, that Yetta would certainly be found bone clear to the centre if her
skull was ever drilled--the same stuff they slaughter the poor elephants for over in Africa--going
so far away, with Yetta right there to their hands, as you might say. And I'm getting sicker
and sicker! I'd have retained my calm mind, mind you, if they had been my own kids--but kids
of others I'd been sacredly trusted with!

"And then down the back stairs comes this here sandy-complected, horse-faced plumber that had
been frittering away his time all day up in a bathroom over one little leak, and looking as
sad and mournful as if he hadn't just won eight dollars, or whatever it was. He must have been
born that way--not even being a plumber had cheered him up.

"'Blackhanders!'" he says right off, kind of brightening a little bit.

"I like to fainted for fair! He says they had lured the kids off with candy and popcorn, and
would hold 'em in a tenement house for ten thousand dollars, to be left on a certain spot at
twelve P.M. He seemed to know a lot about their ways.

"'They got the Honourable Simon T. Griffenbaugh's youngest that way,' he says, 'only a month
ago. Likely the same gang got these two.'

"'How do you know?' I asks him.

"'Well,' he says, 'they's a gang of over two hundred of these I-talian Blackhanders working
right now on a sewer job something about two miles up the road. That's how I know,' he says.
'That's plain enough, ain't it? It's as plain as the back of my hand. What chance would them
two defenceless little children have with a gang of two hundred Blackhanders?'

"But that looked foolish, even to me. 'Shucks!' I says. 'That don't stand to reason.' But then
I got another scare. 'How about water?' I says. 'Any places round here they could fall into
and get drownded?'

"He'd looked glum again when I said two hundred Blackhanders didn't sound reasonable; but he
cheers up at this and says: 'Oh, yes; lots of places they could drownd--cricks and rivers and
lakes and ponds and tanks--any number of places they could fall into and never come up again.'
Say, he made that whole neighbourhood sound like Venice, Italy. You wondered how folks ever
got round without gondolas or something. 'One of Dr. George F. Maybury's two kids was nearly
drownded last Tuesday--only the older one saved him; a wonder it was they didn't have to drag
the river and find 'em on the bottom locked in each other's arms! And a boy by the name of
Clifford Something, only the other day, playing down by the railroad tracks--'

"I shut him off, you bet! I told him to get out quick and go to his home if he had one.

"'I certainly hope I won't have to read anything horrible in to-morrow's paper!' he says as
he goes down the back stoop. 'Only last week they was a nigger caught--'

"I shut the door on him. Rattled good and plenty I was by then. Back comes this silly old gardener--he'd
gone with his hoe and was still gripping it. The neighbours down that way hadn't seen the kids.
Back comes Tillie. One neighbour where she'd been had seen 'em climb on to a street car--only
it wasn't going downtown but into the country; and this neighbour had said to herself that
the boy would be likely to let some one have it in the eye with his gun, the careless way he
was lugging it.

"Thank the Lord, that was a trace! I telephoned to the police and told 'em all about it. And
I telephoned for a motor car for me and got into some clothes. Good and scared--yes! I caught
sight of my face in the looking-glass, and, my! but it was pasty--it looked like one of these
cheap apple pies you see in the window of a two-bit lunch place! And while I'm waiting for
this motor car, what should come but a telegram from Mr. W.B. himself saying that the aunt
was worse and he would go to New Jersey himself for the night! Some said this aunt was worth
a good deal more than she was supposed to be. And I not knowing the name of this town in Jersey
where they would all be!--it was East Something or West Something, and hard to remember, and
I'd forgot it.

"I called the police again and they said descriptions was being sent out, and that probably
I'd better not worry, because they often had cases like this. And I offered to bet them they
hadn't a case since Yonkers was first thought of that had meant so much spot cash to 'em as
this one would mean the minute I got a good grip on them kids. So this cop said mebbe they
had better worry a little, after all, and they'd send out two cars of their own and scour the
country, and try to find the conductor of this street car that the neighbour woman had seen
the kids get on to.

"I r'ared round that house till the auto come that I'd ordered. It was late coming, naturally,
and nearly dark when it got there; but we covered a lot of miles while the daylight lasted,
with the man looking sharp out along the road, too, because he had three kids of his own that
would do any living thing sometimes, though safe at home and asleep at that minute, thank God!

"It was moisting when we started, and pretty soon it clouded up and the dark came on, and I
felt beat. We got fair locoed. We'd go down one road and then back the same way. We stopped
to ask everybody. Then we found the two autos sent out by the police. I told the cops again
what would happen to 'em from me the minute the kids was found--the kids or their bodies. I
was so despairing--what with that damned plumber and everything! I'll bet he's the merry chatterbox
in his own home. The police said cheer up--nothing like that, with the country as safe as a
church. But we went over to this Blackhanders' construction camp, just the same, to make sure,
and none of the men was missing, the boss said, and no children had been seen; and anyway his
men was ordinary decent wops and not Blackhanders--and blamed if about fifty of 'em didn't
turn out to help look! Yes, sir, there they was--foreigners to the last man except the boss,
who was Irish--and acting just like human beings.

"It was near ten o'clock now; so we went to a country saloon to telephone police headquarters,
and they had found the car conductor, he remembering because he had threatened to put the boy
scout off the car if he didn't quit pointing his gun straight at an old man with gold spectacles
setting across the aisle. And finally they had got off themselves about three miles down the
road; he'd watched 'em climb over a stone wall and start up a hill into some woods that was
there. And he was Conductor Number Twenty-seven, if we wanted to know that.

"We beat it to that spot after I'd powdered my nose and we'd had a quick round of drinks. The
policemen knew where it was. It wasn't moisting any more--it was raining for fair; and we done
some ground-and-lofty skidding before we got there. We found the stone wall all right and the
slope leading up to the woods; but, my Lord, there was a good half mile of it! We strung out--four
cops and my driver and me--hundreds of yards apart and all yelling, so maybe the poor lost
things would hear us.

"We made up to the woods without raising a sign; and, my lands, wasn't it dark inside the woods!
I worked forward, trying to keep straight from tree to tree; but I stumbled and tore my clothes
and sprained my wrist, and blacked one eye the prettiest you'd want to see--mighty near being
a blubberhead myself, I was--it not being my kids, you understand. Oh, I kept to it though!
I'd have gone straight up the grand old state of New York into Lake Erie if something hadn't
stopped me.

"It was a light off through the pine and oak trees, and down in a kind of little draw--not
a lamplight but a fire blazing up. I yelled to both sides toward the others. I can yell good
when I'm put to it. Then I started for the light. I could make out figures round the fire.
Mebbe it's a Blackhanders' camp, I think; so I didn't yell any more. I cat-footed. And in a
minute I was up close and seen 'em--there in the dripping rain.

"Rupert, Junior, was asleep, leaned setting up against a tree, with a messenger boy's cap on.
And Margery was asleep on a pile of leaves, with her cheek on one hand and something over her.
And a fat man was asleep on his back, with his mouth open, making an awful fuss about it. And
the only one that wasn't asleep was a funny little old man setting against another tree. He
had on the scout's campaign hat and he held the gun across his chest in the crook of his arm.
He hadn't any coat on. Then I see his coat was what was over Margery; and I looked closer and
it was a messenger boy's coat.

"I was more floored than ever when I took that in. I made a little move, and this funny old
man must have heard me--he looked like one of them silly little critters that play hob with
Rip Van Winkle out on the mountain before he goes to sleep. And he cocks his ears this way
and that; then he jumped to his feet, and I come forward where he could see me. And darned
if he didn't up with this here air gun of Rupert's, like a flash, and plunk me with a buckshot
it carried--right on my sprained wrist, too!

"Say, I let out a yell, and I had him by the neck of his shirt in one grab. I was still shaking
him when the others come to. The fat man set up and rubbed his eyes and blinked. That's all
he done. Rupert woke up the same minute and begun to cry like a baby; and Margery woke up,
but she didn't cry. She took a good look at me and she says: 'You let him alone! He's my knight--he
slays all the dragons. He's a good knight!'

"There I was, still shaking the little old man--I'd forgot all about him. So I dropped him
on the ground and reached for Margery; and I was so afraid I was going to blubber like Rupert,
the scout, that I let out some words to keep from it. Yes, sir; I admit it.

"'Oh! Oh! Oh! Swearing!' says Rupert. I shall tell mother and Aunt Hilda just what you said!'

"Mebby you can get Rupert's number from that. I did anyway. I stood up from Margery and cuffed
him. He went on sobbing, but not without reason.

"'Margery Hemingway,' I says, 'how dare you!' And she looks up all cool and cunning, and says:
'Ho! I bet I know worse words than what you said! See if I don't.' So then I shut her off mighty
quick. But still she didn't cry. 'I s'pose I must go back home,' she says. 'And perhaps it
is all for the best. I have a very beautiful home. Perhaps I should stay there oftener.'

"I turned on the Blackhanders.

"'Did these brutes entice you away with candy?' I demanded. 'Was they holding you here for ransom?'

"'Huh! I should think not!' she says. 'They are a couple of 'fraid-cats. They were afraid as
anything when we all got lost in these woods and wanted to keep on finding our way out. And
I said I bet they were awful cowards, and the fat one said of course he was; but this old one
became very, very indignant and said he bet he wasn't any more of a coward than I am, but we
simply ought to go where there were more houses. And so I consented and we got lost worse than
ever--about a hundred miles, I think--in this dense forest and we couldn't return to our beautiful
homes. And this one said he was a trapper, scout, and guide; so he built this lovely fire and
I ate a lot of crullers the silly things had brought with them. And then this old one flung
his robe over me because I was a princess, and it made me invisible to prowling wolves; and
anyway he sat up to shoot them with his deadly rifle that he took away from Cousin Rupert.
And Cousin Rupert became very tearful indeed; so we took his hat away, too, because it's a
truly scout hat.'

"'And she smoked a cigarette,' says Rupert, still sobbing.

"'He smoked one, too, and I mean to tell his mother,' says Margery. 'It's something I think
she ought to know.'

"'It made me sick,' says Rupert. 'It was a poison cigarette; I nearly died.'

"'Mine never made me sick,' says Margery--'only it was kind of sting-y to the tongue and I
swallowed smoke through my nose repeatedly. And first, this old one wouldn't give us the cigarettes
at all, until I threatened to cast a spell on him and turn him into a toad forever. I never
did that to any one, but I bet I could. And the fat one cried like anything and begged me not
to turn the old one into a toad, and the old one said he didn't think I could in a thousand
years, but he wouldn't take any chances in the Far West; so he gave us the cigarettes, and
Rupert only smoked half of his and then he acted in a very common way, I must say. And this
old one said we would have br'iled b'ar steaks for breakfast. What is a br'iled b'ar steak?
I'm hungry.'

"Such was little angel-faced Margery. Does she promise to make life interesting for those who
love her, or does she not?

"Well, that's all. Of course these cops when they come up said the two men was desperate crooks
wanted in every state in the Union; but I swore I knew them both well and they was harmless;
and I made it right with 'em about the reward as soon as I got back to a check book. After
that they'd have believed anything I said. And I sent something over to the Blackhanders that
had turned out to help look, and something to Conductor Number Twenty-seven. And the next day
I squared myself with Mrs. W.B. Hemingway and her husband, and Mrs. L.H. Cummins, when they
come back, the aunt not having been sick but only eccentric again.

"And them two poor homeless boys--they kind of got me, I admit, after I'd questioned 'em awhile.
So I coaxed 'em out here where they could lead the wild, free life. Kind of sad and pathetic,
almost, they was. The fat one I found was just a kind of natural-born one--a feeb you understand--and
the old one had a scar that the doctor said explained him all right--you must have noticed
it up over his temple. It's where his old man laid him out once, when he was a kid, with a
stovelifter. It seemed to stop his works.

"Yes; they're pretty good boys. Boogies was never bad but once, account of two custard pies
off the kitchen window sill. I threatened him with his stepmother and he hid under the house
for twenty-four hours. The other one is pretty good, too. This is only the second time I had
to punish him for fooling with live ca'tridges. There! It's sundown and he's got on his Wild
Wests again."

Jimmie Time swaggered from the bunk house in his fearsome regalia. Under the awed observation
of Boogles he wheeled, drew, and shot from the hip one who had cravenly sought to attack him
from the rear.

"My, but he's hostile!" murmured my hostess. "Ain't he just the hostile little wretch?"

IV

ONCE A SCOTCHMAN, ALWAYS

Terrific sound waves beat upon the Arrowhead ranch house this night. At five o'clock a hundred
and twenty Hereford calves had been torn from their anguished mothers for the first time and
shut into a too adjacent feeding pen. Mothers and offspring, kept a hundred yards apart by
two stout fences, unceasingly bawled their grief, a noble chorus of yearning and despair. The
calves projected a high, full-throated barytone, with here and there a wailing tenor against
the rumbling bass of their dams. And ever and again pealed distantly into the chorus the flute
obbligato of an emotional coyote down on the flat. There was never a diminuendo. The fortissimo
had been steadily maintained for three hours and would endure the night long, perhaps for two
other nights.

At eight o'clock I sleepily wondered how I should sleep. And thus wondering, I marvelled at
the indifference to the racket of my hostess, Mrs. Lysander John Pettengill. Through dinner
and now as she read a San Francisco newspaper she had betrayed no consciousness of it. She
read her paper and from time to time she chuckled.

"How do you like it?" I demanded, referring to the monstrous din.

"It's great," she said, plainly referring to something else. "One of them real upty-up weddings
in high life, with orchestras and bowers of orchids and the bride a vision of loveliness--"

"I mean the noise."

"What noise?" She put the paper aside and stared at me, listening intently. I saw that she
was honestly puzzled, even as the chorus swelled to unbelievable volume. I merely waved a hand.
The coyote was then doing a most difficult tremolo high above the clamour.

"Oh, that!" said my enlightened hostess. "That's nothing; just a little bunch of calves being
weaned. We never notice that--and say, they got the groom's mother in here, too. Yes, sir,
Ellabelle in all her tiaras and sunbursts and dog collars and diamond chest protectors--Mrs.
Angus McDonald, mother of groom, in a stunning creation! I bet they didn't need any flashlight
when they took her, not with them stones all over her person. They could have took her in a
coal cellar."

"How do you expect to sleep with all that going on?" I insisted.

"All what? Oh, them calves. That's nothing! Angus says to her when they first got money: 'Whatever
you economize in, let it not be in diamonds!' He says nothing looks so poverty-stricken as
a person that can only afford a few. Better wear none at all than just a mere handful, he says.
What do you think of that talk from a man named Angus McDonald? You'd think a Scotchman and
his money was soon parted, but I heard him say it from the heart out. And yet Ellabelle never
does seem to get him. Only a year ago, when I was at this here rich place down from San Francisco
where they got the new marble palace, there was a lovely blow-up and Ellabelle says to me in
her hysteria: 'Once a Scotchman, always a Scotchman!' Oh, she was hysteric all right! She was
like what I seen about one of the movie actresses, 'the empress of stormy emotion.' Of course
she feels better now, after the wedding and all this newspaper guff. And it was a funny blow-up.
I don't know as I blamed her at the time."

I now closed a window and a door upon the noisy September night. It helped a little. I went
back to a chair nearer to this woman with ears trained in rejection. That helped more. I could
hear her now, save in the more passionate intervals of the chorus.

"All right, then. What was the funny blow-up?" She caught the significance of the closed door
and window.

"But that's music," she insisted. "Why, I'd like to have a good record of about two hundred
of them white-faced beauties being weaned, so I could play it on a phonograph when I'm off
visiting--only it would make me too homesick." She glanced at the closed door and window in
a way that I found sinister.

"I couldn't hear you," I suggested.

"Oh, all right!" She listened wistfully a moment to the now slightly dulled oratorio, then:
"Yes, Angus McDonald is his name; but there are two kinds of Scotch, and Angus is the other
kind. Of course he's one of the big millionaires now, with money enough to blind any kind of
a Scotchman, but he was the other kind even when he first come out to us, a good thirty years
ago, without a cent. He's a kind of second or third cousin of mine by marriage or something--I
never could quite work it out--and he'd learned his trade back in Ohio; but he felt that the
East didn't have any future to speak of, so he decided to come West. He was a painter and grainer
and kalsominer and paperhanger, that kind of thing--a good, quiet boy about twenty-five, not
saying much, chunky and slow-moving but sure, with a round Scotch head and a snub nose, and
one heavy eyebrow that run clean across his face--not cut in two like most are.

"He landed on the ranch and slowly looked things over and let on after a few days that he mebbe
would be a cowboy on account of it taking him outdoors more than kalsomining would. Lysander
John was pretty busy, but he said all right, and gave him a saddle and bridle and a pair of
bull pants and warned him about a couple of cinch-binders that he mustn't try to ride or they
would murder him. And so one morning Angus asked a little bronch-squeezer we had, named Everett
Sloan, to pick him out something safe to ride, and Everett done so. Brought him up a nice old
rope horse that would have been as safe as a supreme-court judge, but the canny Angus says:
'No, none of your tricks now! That beast has the very devil in his eye, and you wish to sit
by and laugh your fool head off when he displaces me.' 'Is that so?' says Everett. 'I suspect
you,' says Angus. 'I've read plentifully about the tricks of you cowlads.' 'Pick your own horse,
then,' says Everett. 'I'd better,' says Angus, and picks one over by the corral gate that was
asleep standing up, with a wisp of hay hanging out of his mouth like he'd been too tired to
finish eating it. 'This steed is more to my eye,' says Angus. 'He's old and withered and he
has no evil ambitions. But maybe I can wake him up.' 'Maybe you can,' says Everett, 'but are
you dead sure you want to?' Angus was dead sure. 'I shall thwart your murderous design,' says
he. So Everett with a stung look helped him saddle this one. He had his alibi all right, and
besides, nothing ever did worry that buckaroo as long as his fingers wasn't too cold to roll
a cigarette.

"The beast was still asleep when Angus forked him. Without seeming to wake up much he at once
traded ends, poured Angus out of the saddle, and stacked him up in some mud that was providentially
there--mud soft enough to mire your shadow. Angus got promptly up, landed a strong kick in
the ribs of the outlaw which had gone to sleep again before he lit, shook hands warmly with
Everett and says: 'What does a man need with two trades anyway? Good-bye!'

"But when Lysander John hears about it he says Angus has just the right stuff in him for a
cowman. He says he has never known one yet that you could tell anything to before he found
it out for himself, and Angus must sure have the makings of a good one, so he persuades him
to stay round for a while, working at easy jobs that couldn't stack him up, and later he sent
him to Omaha with the bunch in charge of a trainload of steers.

"The trip back was when his romance begun. Angus had kept fancy-free up to that time, being
willing enough but thoroughly cautious. Do you remember the eating-house at North Platte, Nebraska?
The night train from Omaha would reach there at breakfast time and you'd get out in the frosty
air, hungry as a confirmed dyspeptic, and rush into the big red building past the man that
was rapidly beating on a gong with one of these soft-ended bass-drum sticks. My, the good hot
smells inside! Tables already loaded with ham and eggs and fried oysters and fried chicken
and sausage and fried potatoes and steaks and hot biscuits and corn bread and hot cakes and
regular coffee--till you didn't know which to begin on, and first thing you knew you had your
plate loaded with too many things--but how you did eat!--and yes, thank you, another cup of
coffee, and please pass the sirup this way. And no worry about the train pulling out, because
there the conductor is at that other table and it can't go without him, so take your time--and
about three more of them big fried oysters, the only good fried ones I ever had in the world!
To this day I get hungry thinking of that North Platte breakfast, and mad when I go into the
dining-car as we pass there and try to get the languid mulatto to show a little enthusiasm.

"Well, they had girls at that eating-house. Of course no one ever noticed 'em much, being too
famished and busy. You only knew in a general way that females was passing the food along.
But Angus actually did notice Ellabelle, though it must have been at the end of the meal, mebbe
when she was pouring the third cup. Ellabelle was never right pretty to my notion, but she
had some figure and kind of a sad dignity, and her brown hair lacked the towers and minarets
and golden domes that the other girls built with their own or theirs by right of purchase.
And she seems to have noticed Angus from the very first. Angus saw that when she wasn't passing
the fried chicken or the hot biscuits along, even for half a minute, she'd pick up a book from
the window sill and glance studiously at its pages. He saw the book was called 'Lucile.' And
he looked her over some more--between mouthfuls, of course--the neat-fitting black dress revealing
every line of her lithe young figure, like these magazine stories say, the starched white apron
and the look of sad dignity that had probably come of fresh drummers trying to teach her how
to take a joke, and the smooth brown hair--he'd probably got wise to the other kind back in
the social centres of Ohio--and all at once he saw there was something about her. He couldn't
tell what it was, but he knew it was there. He heard one of the over-haired ones call her Ellabelle,
and he committed the name to memory.

"He also remembered the book she was reading. He come back with a copy he'd bought at Spokane
and kept it on his bureau. Not that he read it much. It was harder to get into than 'Peck's
Bad Boy,' which was his favourite reading just then.

"Pretty soon another load of steers is ready--my sakes, what scrubby runts we sent off the
range in them days compared to now!--and Angus pleads to go, so Lysander John makes a place
for him and, coming back, here's Ellabelle handing the hot things along same as ever, with
'Lucile' at hand for idle moments. This time Angus again made certain there was something about
her. He cross-examined her, I suppose, between the last ham and eggs and the first hot cakes.
Her folks was corn farmers over in Iowa and she'd gone to high school and had meant to be a
teacher, but took this job because with her it was anything to get out of Iowa, which she spoke
of in a warm, harsh way.

"Angus nearly lost the train that time, making certain there was something about her. He told
her to be sure and stay there till he showed up again. He told me about her when he got back.
'There's something about her,' he says. 'I suspect it's her eyes, though it might be something
else.'

"Me? I suspected there was something about her, too; only I thought it was just that North
Platte breakfast and his appetite. No meal can ever be like breakfast to them that's two-fisted,
and Angus was. He'd think there was something about any girl, I says to myself, seeing her
through the romantic golden haze of them North Platte breakfast victuals. Of course I didn't
suggest any such base notion to Angus, knowing how little good it does to talk sense to a man
when he thinks there's something about a girl. He tried to read 'Lucile' again, but couldn't
seem to strike any funny parts.

"Next time he went to Omaha, a month later, he took his other suit and his new boots. 'I shall
fling caution to the winds and seal my fate,' he says. 'There's something about her, and some
depraved scoundrel might find it out.' 'All right, go ahead and seal,' I says. 'You can't expect
us to be shipping steers every month just to give you twenty minutes with a North Platte waiter
girl.' 'Will she think me impetuous?' says he. 'Better that than have her think you ain't,'
I warns him. 'Men have been turned down for ten million reasons, and being impetuous is about
the only one that was never numbered among them. It will be strange o'clock when that happens.'
'She's different,' says Angus. 'Of course,' I says. 'We're all different. That's what makes
us so much alike.' 'You might know,' says he doubtfully.

"He proved I did, on the trip back. He marched up to Ellabelle's end of the table in his other
suit and his new boots and a startling necktie he'd bought at a place near the stockyards in
South Omaha, and proposed honourable marriage to her, probably after the first bite of sausage
and while she was setting his coffee down. 'And you've only twenty minutes,' he says, 'so hurry
and pack your grip. We'll be wed when we get off the train.' 'You're too impetuous,' says Ellabelle,
looking more than ever as if there was something about her. 'There, I was afraid I'd be,' says
Angus, quitting on some steak and breaking out into scarlet rash. 'What did you think I am?'
demands Ellabelle. 'Did you think I would answer your beck and call or your lightest nod as
if I were your slave or something? Little you know me,' she says, tossing her head indignantly.
'I apologize bitterly,' says Angus. 'The very idea is monstrous,' says she. 'Twenty minutes--and
with all my packing! You will wait over till the four-thirty-two this afternoon,' she goes
on, very stern and nervous, 'or all is over between us.' 'I'll wait as long as that for you,'
says Angus, going to the steak again. 'Are the other meals here as good as breakfast?' 'There's
one up the street,' says Ellabelle; 'a Presbyterian.' 'I would prefer a Presbyterian,' says
Angus. 'Are those fried oysters I see up there?'

"That was about the way of it, I gathered later. Anyway, Angus brought her back, eating on
the way a whole wicker suitcase full of lunch that she put up. And she seemed a good, capable
girl, all right. She told me there was something about Angus. She'd seen that from the first.
Even so, she said, she hadn't let him sweep her off her feet like he had meant to, but had
forced him to give her time to do her packing and consider the grave step she was taking for
better or worse, like every true, serious-minded woman ought to.

"Angus now said he couldn't afford to fritter away any more time in the cattle business, having
a wife to support in the style she had been accustomed to, so he would go to work at his trade.
He picked out Wallace, just over in Idaho, as a young and growing town where he could do well.
He rented a nice four-room cottage there, with an icebox out on the back porch and a hammock
in the front yard, and begun to paper and paint and grain and kalsomine and made good money
from the start. Ellabelle was a crackajack housekeeper and had plenty of time to lie out in
the hammock and read 'Lucile' of afternoons.

"By and by Angus had some money saved up, and what should he do with bits of it now and then
but grubstake old Snowstorm Hickey, who'd been scratching mountainsides all his life and never
found a thing and likely never would--a grouchy old hardshell with white hair and whiskers
whirling about his head in such quantities that a body just naturally called him Snowstorm
without thinking. It made him highly indignant, but he never would get the things cut. Well,
and what does this old snow-scene-in-the-Alps do after about a year but mush along up the cañon
past Mullan and find a high-grade proposition so rich it was scandalous! They didn't know how
rich at first, of course, but Angus got assays and they looked so good they must be a mistake,
so they sunk a shaft and drifted in a tunnel, and the assays got better, and people with money
was pretty soon taking notice.

"One day Snowstorm come grouching down to Angus and tells about a capitalist that had brought
two experts with him and nosed over the workings for three days. Snowstorm was awful dejected.
He had hated the capitalist right off. 'He wears a gold watch chain and silk underclothes like
one of these fly city dames,' says Snowstorm, who was a knowing old scoundrel, 'and he says
his syndicate on the reports of these two thieving experts will pay twelve hundred for it and
not a cent more. What do you think of that for nerve?'

"'Is that all?' says Angus, working away at his job in the new International Hotel at Wallace.
Graining a door in the dining-room he was, with a ham rind and a stocking over one thumb nail,
doing little curlicues in the brown wet paint to make it look like what the wood was at first
before it was painted at all. 'Well,' he says, 'I suspected from the assays that we might get
a bit more, but if he had experts with him you better let him have it for twelve hundred. After
all, twelve hundred dollars is a good bit of money.'

"'Twelve hundred thousand,' says Snowstorm, still grouchy.

"'Oh,' says Angus. 'In that case don't let him have it. If the shark offers that it'll be worth
more. I'll go into the mining business myself as soon as I've done this door and the wainscoting
and give them their varnish.'

"He did so. He had the International finished in three more days, turned down a job in the
new bank building cold, and went into the mining business just like he'd do anything else--slow
and sure, yet impetuous here and there. It wasn't a hard proposition, the stuff being there
nearly from the grass roots, and the money soon come a-plenty. Snowstorm not only got things
trimmed up but had 'em dyed black as a crow's wing and retired to a life of sinful ease in
Spokane, eating bacon and beans and cocoanut custard pie three times a day till the doctors
found out what a lot of expensive things he had the matter with him.

"Angus not only kept on the job but branched out into other mines that he bought up, and pretty
soon he quit counting his money. You know what that would mean to most of his race. It fazed
him a mite at first. He tried faithfully to act like a crazy fool with his money, experimenting
with revelry and champagne for breakfast, and buying up the Sans Soosy dance hall every Saturday
night for his friends and admirers. But he wasn't gaited to go on that track long. Even Ellabelle
wasn't worried the least bit, and in fact she thought something of the kind was due his position.
And she was busy herself buying the things that are champagne to a woman, only they're kept
on the outside. That was when Angus told her if she was going in for diamonds at all to get
enough so she could appear to be wasteful and contemptuous of them. Two thousand she give for
one little diamond circlet to pin her napkin up on her chest with. It was her own idea.

"Then Angus for a time complicated his amateur debauchery with fast horses. He got him a pair
of matched pacing stallions that would go anywhere, he said. And he frequently put them there
when he had the main chandelier lighted. In driving them over a watering-trough one night an
accident of some sort happened. Angus didn't come to till after his leg was set and the stitches
in--eight in one place, six in another, and so on; I wonder why they're always so careful to
count the stitches in a person that way--and he wished to know if his new side-bar buggy was
safe and they told him it wasn't, and he wanted to know where his team was, but nobody knew
that for three days, so he says to the doctors and Ellabelle: 'Hereafter I suspect I shall
take only soft drinks like beer and sherry. Champagne has a bonnier look but it's too enterprising.
I might get into trouble some time.' And he's done so to this day. Oh, I've seen him take a
sip or two of champagne to some one's health, or as much Scotch whiskey in a tumbler of water
as you could dribble from a medium-boilered fountain pen. But that's a high riot with him.
He'll eat one of these corned peaches in brandy, and mebbe take a cream pitcher of beer on
his oatmeal of a morning when his stomach don't feel just right, but he's never been a willing
performer since that experiment in hurdling.

"When he could walk again him and Ellabelle moved to the International Hotel, where she wouldn't
have to cook or split kindling and could make a brutal display of diamonds at every meal, and
we went down to see them. That was when Angus give Lysander John the scarfpin he'd sent clear
to New York for--a big gold bull's head with ruby eyes and in its mouth a nugget of platinum
set with three diamonds. Of course Lysander John never dast wear it except when Angus was going
to see it.

"Then along comes Angus, Junior, though poor Ellabelle thinks for several days that he's Elwin.
We'd gone down so I could be with her.

"'Elwin is the name I have chosen for my son,' says she to Angus the third day.

"'Not so,' says Angus, slumping down his one eyebrow clear across in a firm manner. 'You're
too late. My son is already named. I named him Angus the night before he was born.'

"'How could you do that when you didn't know the sex?' demands Ellabelle with a frightened
air of triumph.

"'I did it, didn't I?' says Angus. 'Then why ask how I could?' And he curved the eyebrow up
one side and down the other in a fighting way.

"Ellabelle had been wedded wife of Angus long enough to know when the Scotch curse was on him.
'Very well,' she says, though turning her face to the wall. Angus straightened the eyebrow.
'Like we might have two now, one of each kind,' says he quite soft, 'you'd name your daughter
as you liked, with perhaps no more than a bit of a suggestion from me, to be taken or not by
you, unless we'd contend amiably about it for a length of time till we had it settled right
as it should be. But a son--my son--why, look at the chest on him already, projecting outward
like a clock shelf--and you would name him--but no matter! I was forehanded, thank God.' Oh,
you saw plainly that in case a girl ever come along Ellabelle would have the privilege of naming
it anything in the world she wanted to that Angus thought suitable.

"So that was settled reasonably, and Angus went on showing what to do with your mine instead
of selling it to a shark, and the baby fatted up, being stall-fed, and Ellabelle got out into
the world again, with more money than ever to spend, but fewer things to buy, because in Wallace
she couldn't think of any more. Trust her, though! First the International Hotel wasn't good
enough. Angus said they'd have a mansion, the biggest in Wallace, only without slippery hardwood
floors, because he felt brittle after his accident. Ellabelle says Wallace itself ain't big
enough for the mansion that ought to be a home to his only son. She was learning how to get
to Angus without seeming to. He thought there might be something in that, still he didn't like
to trust the child away from him, and he had to stick there for a while.

"So Ellabelle's health broke down. Yes, sir, she got to be a total wreck. Of course the fool
doctor in Wallace couldn't find it out. She tried him and he told her she was strong as a horse
and ought to be doing a tub of washing that very minute. Which was no way to talk to the wife
of a rich mining man, so he lost quite a piece of money by it. Ellabelle then went to Spokane
and consulted a specialist. That's the difference. You only see a doctor, but a specialist
you consult. This one confirmed her fears about herself in a very gentlemanly way and reaped
his reward on the spot. Ellabelle's came after she had convinced Angus that even if she did
have such a good appetite it wasn't a normal one, but it was, in fact, one of her worst symptoms
and threatened her with a complete nervous breakdown. After about a year of this, when Angus
had horned his way into a few more mines--he said he might as well have a bunch of them since
he couldn't be there on the spot anyway--they went to New York City. Angus had never been there
except to pass from a Clyde liner to Jersey City, and they do say that when he heard the rates,
exclusive of board, at the one Ellabelle had picked out from reading the papers, he timidly
asked her if they hadn't ought to go to the other hotel. She told him there wasn't any other--not
for them. She told him further it was part of her mission to broaden his horizon, and she firmly
meant to do it if God would only vouchsafe her a remnant of her once magnificent vitality.

"She didn't have to work so hard either. Angus begun to get a broader horizon in just a few
days, corrupting every waiter he came in contact with, and there was a report round the hotel
the summer I was there that a hat-boy had actually tried to reason with him, thinking he was
a foreigner making mistakes with his money by giving up a dollar bill every time for having
his hat snatched from him. As a matter of fact, Angus can't believe to this day that dollar
bills are money. He feels apologetic when he gives 'em away. All the same I never believed
that report about the hat-boy till someone explained to me that he wasn't allowed to keep his
loot, not only having clothes made special without pockets but being searched to the hide every
night like them poor unfortunate Zulus that toil in the diamond mines of Africa. Of course
I could see then that this boy had become merely enraged like a wild-cat at having a dollar
crowded onto him for some one else every time a head waiter grovelled Angus out of the restaurant.

"The novelty of that life wore off after about a year, even with side trips to resorts where
the prices were sufficiently outrageous to charm Ellabelle. She'd begun right off to broaden
her own horizon. After only one week in New York she put her diamond napkin pincher to doing
other work, and after six months she dressed about as well as them prominent society ladies
that drift round the corridors of this hotel waiting for parties that never seem on time, and
looking none too austere while they wait.

"So Ellabelle, having in the meantime taken up art and literature and gone to lectures where
the professor would show sights and scenes in foreign lands with his magic lantern, begun to
feel the call of the Old World. She'd got far beyond 'Lucile'--though 'Peck's Bad Boy' was
still the favourite of Angus when he got time for any serious reading--- and was coming to
loathe the crudities of our so-called American civilization. So she said. She begun to let
out to Angus that they wasn't doing right by the little one, bringing him up in a hole like
New York City where he'd catch the American accent--though God knows where she ever noticed
that danger there!--and it was only fair to the child to get him to England or Paris or some
such place where he could have decent advantages. I gather that Angus let out a holler at first
so that Ellabelle had to consult another specialist and have little Angus consult one, too.
They both said: 'Certainly, don't delay another day if you value the child's life or your own,'
and of course Angus had to give in. I reckon that was the last real fight he ever put up till
the time I'm going to tell you about.

"They went to England and bought a castle that had never known the profane touch of a plumber,
having been built in the time of the first earl or something, and after that they had to get
another castle in France, account of little Angus having a weak throat that Ellabelle got another
gentlemanly specialist to find out about him; and so it went, with Ellabelle hovering on the
very edge of a nervous breakdown, and taking up art and literature at different spots where
fashion gathered, going to Italy and India's coral strand to study the dead past, and so forth,
and learning to address her inferiors in a refined and hostile manner, with little Angus having
a maid and a governess and something new the matter with him every time Ellabelle felt the
need of a change.

"At first Angus used to make two trips back every year, then he cut them down to one, and at
last he'd only come every two or three years, having his hirelings come to him instead. He'd
branched out a lot, even at that distance, getting into copper and such, and being president
of banks and trusts here and there and equitable cooperative companies and all such things
that help to keep the lower classes trimmed proper. For a whole lot of years I didn't see either
of 'em. I sort of lost track of the outfit, except as I'd see the name of Angus heading a new
board of directors after the reorganization, or renting the north half of Scotland for the
sage-hen and coyote shooting, or whatever the game is there. Of course it took genius to do
this with Angus, and I've never denied that Ellabelle has it. I bet there wasn't a day in all
them years that Angus didn't believe himself to be a stubborn, domineering brute, riding roughshod
over the poor little wreck of a woman. If he didn't it wasn't for want of his wife accusing
him of it in so many words--and perhaps a few more.

"I guess she got to feeling so sure of herself she let her work coarsen up. Anyway, when little
Angus come to be eighteen his pa shocked her one day by saying he must go back home to some
good college. 'You mean England,' says Ellabelle, they being at the time on some other foreign
domains.

"'I do not,' says Angus, 'nor Sweden nor Japan nor East Africa. I mean the United States.'
'You're jesting,' says she. 'You wrong me cruelly,' says Angus. 'The lad's eighteen and threatening
to be a foreigner. Should he stay here longer it would set in his blood.' 'Remember his weak
throat,' says Ellabelle. 'I did,' says Angus. 'To save you trouble I sent for a specialist
to look him over. He says the lad has never a flaw in his throat. We'll go soon.'

"Of course it was dirty work on the part of Angus, getting to the specialist first, but she
saw she had to take it. She knew it was like the time they agreed on his name--she could see
the Scotch blood leaping in his veins. So she gave in with never a mutter that Angus could
hear. That's part of the genius of Ellabelle, knowing when she can and when she positively
cannot, and making no foolish struggle in the latter event.

"Back they come to New York and young Angus went to the swellest college Ellabelle could learn
about, and they had a town house and a country house and Ellabelle prepared to dazzle New York
society, having met frayed ends of it in her years abroad. But she couldn't seem to put it
over. Lots of male and female society foreigners that she'd met would come and put up with
her and linger on in the most friendly manner, but Ellabelle never fools herself so very much.
She knew she wasn't making the least dent in New York itself. She got uncomfortable there.
I bet she had that feeling you get when you're riding your horse over soft ground and all at
once he begins to bog down.

"Anyway, they come West after a year or so, where Angus had more drag and Ellabelle could feel
more important. Not back to Wallace, of course. Ellabelle had forgotten the name of that town,
and also they come over a road that misses the thriving little town of North Platte by several
hundred miles. And pretty soon they got into this darned swell little suburb out from San Francisco,
through knowing one of the old families that had lived there man and boy for upward of four
years. It's a town where I believe they won't let you get off the train unless you got a visitor's
card and a valet.

"Here at last Ellabelle felt she might come into her own, for parties seemed to recognize her
true worth at once. Some of them indeed she could buffalo right on the spot, for she hadn't
lived in Europe and such places all them years for nothing. So, camping in a miserable rented
shack that never cost a penny over seventy thousand dollars, with only thirty-eight rooms and
no proper space for the servants, they set to work building their present marble palace--there's
inside and outside pictures of it in a magazine somewhere round here--bigger than the state
insane asylum and very tasty and expensive, with hand-painted ceilings and pergolas and cafés
and hot and cold water and everything.

"It was then I first see Ellabelle after all the years, and I want to tell you she was impressive.
She looked like the descendant of a long line of ancestry or something and she spoke as good
as any reciter you ever heard in a hall. Last time I had seen her she was still forgetting
about the r's--she'd say: 'Oh, there-urr you ah!' thus showing she was at least half Iowa in
breed--but nothing like that now. She could give the English cards and spades and beat them
at their own game. Her face looked a little bit overmassaged and she was having trouble keeping
her hips down, and wore a patent chin-squeezer nights, and her hair couldn't be trusted to
itself long at a time; but she knew how to dress and she'd learned decency in the use of the
diamond except when it was really proper to break out all over with 'em. You'd look at her
twice in any show ring. Ain't women the wonders! Gazing at Ellabelle when she had everything
on, you'd never dream that she'd come up from the vilest dregs only a few years before--helping
cook for the harvest hands in Iowa, feeding Union Pacific passengers at twenty-two a month,
or splitting her own kindling at Wallace, Idaho, and dreaming about a new silk dress for next
year, or mebbe the year after if things went well.

"Men ain't that way. Angus had took no care of his figure, which was now pouchy, his hair was
gray, and he was either shedding or had been reached, and he had lines of care and food in
his face, and took no pains whatever with his accent--or with what he said, for that matter.
I never saw a man yet that could hide a disgraceful past like a woman can. They don't seem
to have any pride. Most of 'em act like they don't care a hoot whether people find it out on
'em or not.

"Angus was always reckless that way, adding to his wife's burden of anxiety. She'd got her
own vile past well buried, but she never knew when his was going to stick its ugly head up
out of its grave. He'd go along all right for a while like one of the best set had ought to--then
Zooey! We was out to dinner at another millionaire's one night--in that town you're either
a millionaire or drawing wages from one--and Angus talked along with his host for half an hour
about the impossibility of getting a decent valet on this side of the water, Americans not
knowing their place like the English do, till you'd have thought he was born to it, and then
all at once he breaks out about the hardwood finish to the dining-room, and how the art of
graining has perished and ought to be revived. 'And I wish I had a silver dollar,' he says,
'for every door like that one there that I've grained to resemble the natural wood so cunningly
you'd never guess it--hardly.'

"At that his break didn't faze any one but Ellabelle. The host was an old train-robber who'd
cut your throat for two bits--I'll bet he couldn't play an honest game of solitaire--and he
let out himself right off that he had once worked in a livery stable and was proud of it; but
poor Ellabelle, who'd been talking about the dear Countess of Comtessa or somebody, and the
dukes and earls that was just one-two-three with her on the other side, she blushed up till
it almost showed through the second coating. Angus was certainly poison ivy to her on occasion,
and he'd refuse to listen to reason when she called him down about it. He'd do most of the
things she asked him to about food and clothes and so forth--like the time he had the two gold
teeth took out and replaced by real porcelain nature fakers--but he never could understand
why he wasn't free to chat about the days when he earned what money he had.

"It was this time that I first saw little Angus since he had changed from a governess to a
governor--or whatever they call the he-teacher of a millionaire's brat. He was home for the
summer vacation. Naturally I'd been prejudiced against him not only by his mother's praise
but by his father's steady coppering of the same. Judiciously comparing the two, I was led
to expect a kind of cross between Little Lord Fauntleroy and the late Sitting Bull, with the
vices of each and the virtues of neither. Instead of which I found him a winsome whelp of six-foot
or so with Scotch eyes and his mother's nose and chin and a good, big, straight mouth, and
full of the most engaging bedevilments for one and all. He didn't seem to be any brighter in
his studies than a brute of that age should be, and though there was something easy and grand
in his manner that his pa and ma never had, he wasn't really any more foreign than what I be.
Of course he spoke Eastern American instead of Western, but you forgive him that after a few
minutes when you see how nice he naturally meant to be. I admit we took to each other from
the start. They often say I'm a good mixer, but it took no talent to get next to that boy.
I woke up the first night thinking I knew what old silly would do her darndest to adopt him
if ever his poor pa and ma was to get buttered over the right of way in some railroad accident.

"And yet I didn't see Angus, Junior, one bit the way either of his parents saw him. Ellabelle
seemed to look on him merely as a smart dresser and social know-it-all that would be a 98 cent
credit to her in the position of society queen for which the good God had always intended her.
And his father said he wasn't any good except to idle away his time and spend money, and would
come to a bad end by manslaughter in a high-powered car; or in the alcoholic ward of some hospital;
that he was, in fact, a mere helling scapegrace that would have been put in some good detention
home years before if he hadn't been born to a father that was all kinds of a so-and-so old
Scotch fool. There you get Angus, fills, from three different slants, and I ain't saying there
wasn't justification for the other two besides mine. The boy could act in a crowd of tea-drinking
women with a finish that made his father look like some one edging in to ask where they wanted
the load of coal dumped. But also Angus, peer, was merely painting the lily, as they say, when
he'd tell all the different kinds of Indian the boy was. That very summer before he went back
to the educational centre where they teach such arts, he helped wreck a road house a few miles
up the line till it looked like one of them pictures of what a Zeppelin does to a rare old
English drug store in London. And a week later he lost a race with the Los Angeles flyer, account
of not having as good a roadbed to run on as the train had, and having to take too short a
turn with his new car.

"I remember we three was wondering where he could be that night the telephone rung from the
place where kindly strangers had hauled him for first aid to the foolish. But it was the boy
himself that was able to talk and tell his anxious parents to forget all about it. His father
took the message and as soon as he got the sense of it he begun to get hopeful that the kid
had broke at least one leg--thinking, he must have been, of the matched pacing stallions that
once did himself such a good turn without meaning to. His disappointment was pitiful as he
turned to us after learning that he had lit on his head but only sustained a few bruises and
sprains and concussions, with the wall-paper scraped off here and there.

"'Struck on his head, the only part of him that seems invulnerable,' says the fond father.
'What's that?' he yells, for the boy was talking again. He listened a minute, and it was right
entertaining to watch his face work as the words come along. It registered all the evil that
Scotland has suffered from her oppressors since they first thought up the name for it. Finally
he begun to splutter back--it must have sounded fine at the other end--but he had to hang up,
he was that emotional. After he got his face human again he says to us:

"'Would either of you think now that you could guess at what might have been his dying speech?
Would you guess it might be words of cheer to the bereaved mother that nursed him, or even
a word of comfort to the idiot father that never touched whipleather to his back while he was
still husky enough to get by with it? Well, you'd guess wild. He's but inflamed with indignation
over the state of the road where he passed out for some minutes. He says it's a disgrace to
any civilized community, and he means to make trouble about it with the county supervisor,
who must be a murderer at heart, and then he'll take it up to the supreme court and see if
we can't have roads in this country as good as Napoleon the First made them build in France,
so a gentleman can speed up a bit over five miles an hour without breaking every bone in his
body, to say nothing of totally ruining a car costing forty-eight hundred dollars of his good
money, with the ink on the check for it scarce dry. He was going on to say that he had the
race for the crossing as good as won and had just waved mockingly at the engineer of the defeated
train who was pretending to feel indifferent about it--but I hung up on him. My strength was
waning. Was he here this minute I make no doubt I'd go to the mat with him, unequal as we are
in prowess.' He dribbled off into vicious mutterings of what he'd say to the boy if he was
to come to the door.

"Then dear Ellabelle pipes up: 'And doesn't the dear boy say who was with him in this prank?'

"Angus snorted horribly at the word 'prank,' just like he'd never had one single advantage
of foreign travel. 'He does indeed--one of those Hammersmith twin louts was with him--the speckled
devil with the lisp, I gather--and praise God his bones, at least, are broke in two places!'

"Ellabelle's eyes shined up at this with real delight. 'How terrible!' she says, not looking
it. 'That's Gerald Hammersmith, son of Mrs. St. John Hammersmith, leader of the most exclusive
set here--oh, she's quite in the lead of everything that has class! And after this we must
know each other far, far better than we have in the past. She has never called up to this time.
I must inquire after her poor boy directly to-morrow comes.' That is Ellabelle. Trust her not
to overlook a single bet.

"Angus again snorted in a common way. 'St. John Hammersmith!' says he, steaming up, 'When he
trammed ore for three-fifty a day and went to bed with his clothes on any night he'd the price
of a quart of gin-and-beer mixed--liking to get his quick--his name was naked 'John' with never
a Saint to it, which his widow tacked on a dozen years later. And speaking of names, Mrs. McDonald,
I sorely regret you didn't name your own son after your first willful fancy. It was no good
day for his father when you put my own name to him.'

"But Ellabelle paid no attention whatever to this rough stuff, being already engaged in courting
the Hammersmith dame for the good of her social importance. I make no doubt before the maid
finished rubbing in the complexion cream that night she had reduced this upstart to the ranks
and stepped into her place as leader of the most exclusive social set between South San Francisco
and old Henry Miller's ranch house at Gilroy. Anyway, she kept talking to herself about it,
almost over the mangled remains of her own son, as you might say.

"A year later the new mansion was done, setting in the centre of sixty acres of well-manicured
land as flat as a floor and naturally called Hillcrest. Angus asked me down for another visit.
There had been grand doings to open the new house, and Ellabelle felt she was on the way to
ruling things social with an iron hand if she was just careful and didn't overbet her cards.
Angus, not being ashamed of his scandalous past, was really all that kept her nerves strung
up. It seems he'd give her trouble while the painters and decorators was at work, hanging round
'em fascinated and telling 'em how he'd had to work ten hours a day in his time and how he
could grain a door till it looked exactly like the natural wood, so they'd say it wasn't painted
at all. And one day he become so inflamed with evil desire that Ellabelle, escorting a bunch
of the real triple-platers through the mansion, found him with his coat off learning how to
rub down a hardwood panel with oil and pumice stone. Gee! Wouldn't I like to of been there!
I suppose I got a lower nature as well as the rest of us.

"After I'd been there a few days, along comes Angus, fills, out into the world from college
to make a name for himself. By ingenuity or native brute force he had contrived to graduate.
He was nice as ever and told me he was going to look about a bit until he could decide what
his field of endeavour should be. Apparently it was breaking his neck in outdoor sports, including
loop-the-loop in his new car on roads not meant for it, and delighting Ellabelle because he
was a fine social drag in her favour, and enraging his father by the same reasons. Ellabelle
was especially thrilled by his making up to a girl that was daughter to this here old train-robber
I mentioned. It was looking like he might form an alliance, as they say, with this old family
which had lived quite a decent life since they actually got it. The girl looked to me nice
enough even for Angus, Junior, but his pa denounced her as a yellow-haired pest with none but
frivolous aims in life, who wouldn't know whether a kitchen was a room in a house or a little
woolly animal from Paraguay. We had some nice, friendly breakfasts, I believe not, whilst they
discussed this poisonous topic, old Angus being only further embittered when it comes out that
the train-robber is also dead set against this here alliance because his only daughter needs
a decent, reputable man who would come home nights from some low mahogany den in a bank building,
and not a worthless young hound that couldn't make a dollar of his own and had displayed no
talent except for winning the notice of head waiters and policemen. Old Angus says he knows
well enough his son can be arrested out of most crowds just on that description alone, but
who is this So-and-So old thug to be saying it in public?

"And so it went, with Ellabelle living in high hopes and young Angus busy inventing new ways
to bump himself off, and old Angus getting more and more seething--quiet enough outside, but
so desperate inside that it wasn't any time at all till I saw he was just waiting for a good
chance to make some horrible Scotch exhibition of himself.

"Then comes the fatal polo doings, with young Angus playing on the side that won, and Ellabelle
being set up higher than ever till she actually begins to snub people here and there at the
game that look like they'd swallow it, and old Angus ashamed and proud and glaring round as
if he'd like to hear some one besides himself call his son a worthless young hound--if they
wanted to start something.

"And the polo victory of course had to be celebrated by a banquet at the hotel, attended by
all the players and their huskiest ruffian friends. They didn't have the ponies there, but
I guess they would of if they'd thought of it. It must have been a good banquet, with vintages
and song and that sort of thing--I believe they even tried to have food at first--and hearty
indoor sports with the china and silver and chairs that had been thoughtlessly provided and
a couple of big mirrors that looked as if you could throw a catsup bottle clear through them,
only you couldn't, because it would stop there after merely breaking the glass, and spatter
in a helpless way.

"And of course there was speeches. The best one, as far as I could learn, was made by the owner
of the outraged premises at a late hour--when the party was breaking up--as you might put it.
He said the bill would be about eighteen hundred dollars, as near as he could tell at first
glance. He was greeted with hearty laughter and applause from the high-spirited young incendiaries
and retired hastily through an unsuspected door to the pantry as they rushed for him. It was
then they found out what to do with the rest of the catsup--and did it--so the walls and ceiling
wouldn't look so monotonous, and fixed the windows so they would let out the foul tobacco smoke,
and completed a large painting of the Yosemite that hung on the wall, doing several things
to it that hadn't occurred to the artist in his hurry, and performed a serious operation on
the piano without the use of gas. The tables, I believe, was left flat on their backs.

"Angus, fills, was fetched home in a car by a gang of his roguish young playmates. They stopped
down on the stately drive under my window and a quartet sung a pathetic song that run:

    "Don't forget your parents,
    Think all they done for you!

"Then young Angus ascended the marble steps to the top one, bared his agreeable head to the
moonlight, and made them a nice speech. He said the campaign now in progress, fellow-citizens,
marked the gravest crisis in the affairs of our grand old state that an intelligent constituency
had ever been called upon to vote down, but that he felt they were on the eve of a sweeping
victory that would sweep the corrupt hell-hounds of a venal opposition into an ignominy from
which they would never be swept by any base act of his while they honoured him with their suffrages,
because his life was an open book and he challenged any son-of-a-gun within sound of his voice
to challenge this to his face or take the consequences of being swept into oblivion by the
high tide of a people's indignation that would sweep everything before it on the third day
of November next, having been aroused in its might at last from the debasing sloth into which
the corrupt hell-hounds of a venal opposition had swept them, but a brighter day had dawned,
which would sweep the onrushing hordes of petty chicanery to where they would get theirs; and,
as one who had heard the call of an oppressed people, he would accept this fitting testimonial,
not for its intrinsic worth but for the spirit in which it was tendered. As for the nefarious
tariff on watch springs, sawed lumber, and indigo, he would defer his masterly discussion of
these burning issues to a more fitting time because a man had to get a little sleep now and
then or he wasn't any good next day. In the meantime he thanked them one and all, and so, gentlemen,
good-night.

"The audience cheered hoarsely and drove off. I guess the speech would have been longer if
a light hadn't showed in the east wing of the castle where Angus, peer, slept. And then all
was peace and quiet till the storm broke on a rocky coast next day. It didn't really break
until evening, but suspicious clouds no bigger than a man's hand might have been observed earlier.
If young Angus took any breakfast that morning it was done in the privacy of his apartment
under the pitying glances of a valet or something. But here he was at lunch, blithe as ever,
and full of merry details about the late disaster. He spoke with much humour about a wider
use for tomato catsup than was ever encouraged by the old school of house decorators. Old Angus
listened respectfully, taking only a few bites of food but chewing them long and thoughtfully.
Ellabelle was chiefly interested in the names of the hearty young vandals. She was delighted
to learn that they was all of the right set, and her eyes glowed with pride. The eyes of Angus,
peer, was now glowing with what I could see was something else, though I couldn't make out
just what it was. He never once exploded like you'd of thought he was due to.

"Then come a note for the boy which the perfect-mannered Englishman that was tending us said
was brought by a messenger. Young Angus glanced at the page and broke out indignantly. 'The
thieving old pirate!' he says. 'Last night he thought it would be about eighteen hundred dollars,
and that sounded hysterical enough for the few little things we'd scratched or mussed up. I
told him he would doubtless feel better this morning, but in any event to send the bill to
me and I would pay it.'

"'Quite right of you,' says Ellabelle proudly.

"'And now the scoundrel sends me one for twenty-three hundred and odd. He's a robber, net!'

"Old Angus said never a word, but chewed slowly, whilst various puzzling expressions chased
themselves acrost his eloquent face. I couldn't make a thing out of any of them.

"'Never patronize the fellow again,' says Ellabelle warmly.

"'As to that,' says her son, 'he hinted something last night about having me arrested if I
ever tried to patronize him again, but that isn't the point. He's robbing me now.'

"'Oh, money!' says Ellabelle in a low tone of disgust and with a gesture like she was rebuking
her son for mentioning such a thing before the servant.

"'But I don't like to be taken advantage of,' says he, looking very annoyed and grand. Then
old Angus swallowed something he'd been chewing for eight minutes and spoke up with an entirely
new expression that puzzled me more than ever.

"'If you're sure you have the right of it, don't you submit to the outrage.'

"Angus, Junior, backed up a little bit at this, not knowing quite how to take the old man's
mildness. 'Oh, of course the fellow might win out if he took it into court,' he says. 'Every
one knows the courts are just a mass of corruption.'

"'True, I've heard gossip to that effect,' says his father. 'Yet there must be some way to
thwart the crook. I'm feeling strangely ingenious at the moment.' He was very mild, and yet
there was something sinister and Scotch about him that the boy felt.

"'Of course I'd pay it out of my own money,' he remarks generously.

"'Even so, I hate to see you cheated,' says his father kindly. 'I hate to have you pay unjust
extortions out of the mere pittance your tight-fisted old father allows you.'

"Young Angus said nothing to this, but blushed and coughed uncomfortably.

"'If you hurt that hotel anything like twenty-three hundred dollars' worth, it must be an interesting
sight,' his father goes on brightly.

"'Oh, it was funny at the time,' says Angus boy, cheering up again.

"'Things often are,' says old Angus. 'I'll have a look.'

"'At the bill?'

"'No, at the wreck,' says he. The old boy was still quiet on the outside, but was plainly under
great excitement, for he now folded his napkin with care, a crime of which I knew Ellabelle
had broken him the first week in New York, years before. I noticed their butler had the fine
feeling to look steadily away at the wall during this obscenity. The offender then made a pleasant
remark about the beauty of the day and left the palatial apartment swiftly. Young Angus and
his mother looked at each other and strolled after him softly over rugs costing about eighty
thousand dollars. The husband and father was being driven off by a man he could trust in a
car they had let him have for his own use. Later Ellabelle confides to me that she mistrusts
old Angus is contemplating some bit of his national deviltry. 'He had a strange look on his
face,' says she, 'and you know--once a Scotchman, always a Scotchman! Oh, it would be pitiful
if he did anything peculiarly Scotch just at our most critical period here!' Then she felt
of her face to see if there was any nervous lines come into it, and there was, and she beat
it for the maid to have 'em rubbed out ere they set.

"Yet at dinner that night everything seemed fine, with old Angus as jovial as I'd ever seen
him, and the meal come to a cheerful end and we was having coffee in the Looey de Medisee saloon,
I think it is, before a word was said about this here injured hotel.

"'You were far too modest this morning, you sly dog!' says Angus, peer, at last, chuckling
delightedly. 'You misled me grievously. That job of wrecking shows genius of a quality that
was all too rare in my time. I suspect it's the college that does it. I shouldn't wonder now
if going through college is as good as a liberal education. I don't believe mere uneducated
house-wreckers could have done so pretty a job in twice the time, and there's clever little
touches they never would have thought of at all.'

"'It did look thorough when we left,' says young Angus, not quite knowing whether to laugh.

"'It's nothing short of sublime,' says his father proudly. 'I stood in that deserted banquet
hall, though it looks never a bit like one, with ruin and desolation on every hand as far as
the eye could reach. It inspired such awe in the bereaved owner and me that we instinctively
spoke in hushed whispers. I've had no such gripping sensation as that since I gazed upon the
dead city of Pompeii. No longer can it be said that Europe possesses all the impressive ruins.'

"Angus boy grinned cheerfully now, feeling that this tribute was heartfelt.

"'I suspect now,' goes on the old boy, 'that when the wreckage is cleared away we shall find
the mangled bodies of several that perished when the bolts descended from a clear sky upon
the gay scene.'

"'Perhaps under the tables,' says young Angus, chirking up still more at this geniality. 'Two
or three went down early and may still be there.'

"'Yet twenty-three hundred for it is a monstrous outrage,' says the old man, changing his voice
just a mite. 'Too well I know the cost of such repairs. Fifteen hundred at most would make
the place better than ever--and to think that you, struggling along to keep up appearances
on the little I give you, should be imposed upon by a crook that undoubtedly has the law on
his side! I could endure no thought of it, so I foiled him.'

"'How?' says young Angus, kind of alarmed.

"Angus, peer, yawned and got up. 'It's a long story and would hardly interest you,' says he,
moving over to the door. 'Besides, I must be to bed against the morrow, which will be a long,
hard day for me.' His voice had tightened up.

"'What have you done?' demands Ellabelle passionately.

"'Saved your son eight hundred dollars,' says Angus, 'or the equivalent of his own earnings
for something like eight hundred years at current prices for labour.'

"'I've a right to know,' says Ellabelle through her teeth and stiffening in her chair. Young
Angus just set there with his mouth open.

"'So you have,' says old Angus, and he goes on as crisp as a bunch of celery: 'I told you I
felt ingenious. I've kept this money in the family by the simple device of taking the job.
I've engaged two other painters and decorators besides myself, a carpenter, an electrician,
a glazier, and a few proletariats of minor talent for clearing away the wreckage. I shall be
on the job at eight. The loafers won't start at seven, as I used to. Don't think I'd see any
son of mine robbed before my very eyes. My new overalls are laid out and my valet has instructions
to get me into them at seven, though he persists in believing I'm to attend a fancy-dress ball
at some strangely fashionable hour. So I bid you all good evening.'

"Well, I guess that was the first time Ellabelle had really let go of herself since she was
four years old or thereabouts. Talk about the empress of stormy emotion! For ten minutes the
room sounded like a torture chamber of the dark Middle Ages. But the doctor reached there at
last in a swift car, and him and the two maids managed to get her laid out all comfortable
and moaning, though still with outbreaks about every twenty minutes that I could hear clear
over on my side of the house.

"And down below my window on the marble porch Angus, fills, was walking swiftly up and down
for about one hour. He made no speech like the night before. He just walked and walked. The
part that struck me was that neither of them had ever seemed to have the slightest notion of
pleading old Angus out of his mad folly. They both seemed to know the Scotch when it did break out.

"At seven-thirty the next morning the old boy in overalls and jumper and a cap was driven to
his job in a car as big as an apartment house. The curtains to Ellabelle's Looey Seez boudoir
remained drawn, with hourly bulletins from the two Swiss maids that she was passing away in
great agony. Angus, Junior, was off early, too, in his snakiest car. A few minutes later they
got a telephone from him sixty miles away that he would not be home to lunch. Old Angus had
taken his own lunch with him in a tin pail he'd bought the day before, with a little cupola
on top for the cup to put the bottle of cold coffee in.

"It was a joyous home that day, if you don't care how you talk. All it needed was a crêpe necktie
on the knob of the front door. That ornery old hound, Angus, got in from his work at six, spotty
with paint and smelling of oil and turpentine, but cheerful as a new father. He washed up,
ridding himself of at least a third of the paint smell, looked in at Ellabelle's door to say,
'What! Not feeling well, mamma? Now, that's too bad!' ate a hearty dinner with me, young Angus
not having been heard from further, and fell asleep in a gold armchair at ten minutes past nine.

"He was off again next morning. Ellabelle's health was still breaking down, but young Angus
sneaked in and partook of a meagre lunch with me. He was highly vexed with his pa. 'He's nothing
but a scoundrelly old liar,' he says to me, 'saying that he gives me but a pittance. He's always
given me a whale of an allowance. Why, actually, I've more than once had money left over at
the end of the quarter. And now his talk about saving money! I tell you he has some other reason
than money for breaking the mater's heart.' The boy looked very shrewd as he said this.

"That night at quitting time he was strangely down at the place with his own car to fetch his
father home. 'I'll trust you this once,' says the old man, getting in and looking more then
ever like a dissolute working man. On the way they passed this here yellow-haired daughter
of the old train-robber that there had been talk of the boy making a match with. She was driving
her own car and looked neither to right nor left.

"'Not speaking?' says old Angus.

"'She didn't see us,' says the boy.

"'She's ashamed of your father,' says the old man.

"'She's not,' says the boy.

"'You know it,' says the old scoundrel.

"'I'll show her,' says his son.

"Well, we had another cheerful evening, with Ellabelle sending word to old Angus that she wanted
me to have the necklace of brilliants with the sapphire pendant, and the two faithful maids
was to get suitable keepsakes out of the rest of her jewels, and would her son always wear
the seal ring with her hair in it that she had given him when he was twenty? And the old devil
started in to tell how much he could have saved by taking charge of the work in his own house,
and how a union man nowadays would do just enough to keep within the law, and so on; but he
got to yawning his head off and retired at nine, complaining that his valet that morning had
cleaned and pressed his overalls. Young Angus looked very shrewd at me and again says: 'The
old liar! He has some other reason than money. He can't fool me.'

"I kind of gathered from both of them the truth of what happened the next day. Young Angus
himself showed up at the job about nine A.M., with a bundle under his arm. 'Where's the old
man?' his father heard him demand of the carpenter, he usually speaking of old Angus as the
governor.

"'Here,' says he from the top of a stepladder in the entry which looked as if a glacier had
passed through it.

"'Could you put me to work?' says the boy.

"'Don't get me to shaking with laughter up here,' says the old brute. 'Can't you see I'd be
in peril of falling off?'

"Young Angus undoes his bundle and reveals overalls and a jumper which he gets into quickly.
'What do I do first?' says he.

"His father went on kalsomining and took never a look at him more. 'The time has largely passed
here,' says he, 'for men that haven't learned to do something, but you might take some of the
burnt umber there and work it well into a big gob of that putty till it's brown enough to match
the woodwork. Should you display the least talent for that we may see later if you've any knack
with a putty knife.'

"The new hand had brought no lunch with him, but his father spared him a few scraps from his
own, and they all swigged beer from a pail of it they sent out for. So the scandal was now
complete in all its details. The palatial dining-room that night, being a copy of a good church
or something from ancient Italy, smelled like a paint shop indeed--and sounded like one through
dinner. 'That woodwork will be fit to second-coat first thing in the morning,' says old Angus.
'I'll have it sandpapered in no time,' says the boy. 'Your sandpapering ain't bad,' says the
other, 'though you have next to no skill with a brush.' 'I thought I was pretty good with that
flat one though.' 'Oh, fair; just fair! First-coating needs little finesse. There! I forgot
to order more rubbing varnish. Maybe the men will think of it.' And so on till they both yawned
themselves off to their Scotch Renaysence apartments. Ellabelle had not yet learned the worst.
It seemed to be felt that she had a right to perish without suffering the added ignominy of
knowing her son was acting like a common wage slave.

"They was both on the job next day. Of course the disgraceful affair had by now penetrated
to the remotest outlying marble shack. Several male millionaires this day appeared on the scene
to josh Angus, peer, and Angus, fills, as they toiled at their degrading tasks. Not much attention
was paid to 'em, it appears, not even to the old train-robber who come to jest and remained
to cross-examine Angus about how much he was really going to clear on the job, seriously now.
Anything like that was bound to fascinate the old crook.

"And next day, close to quitting time, what happens but this here robber chieftain's petted
daughter coming in and hanging round and begging to be let to help because it was such jolly
fun. I believe she did get hold of a square of sandpaper with which she daintily tried to remove
some fresh varnish that should have been let strictly alone; and when they both ordered her
out in a frenzy of rage, what does she do but wait for 'em with her car which she made them
enter and drove them to their abode like they belonged to the better class of people that one
would care to know. The two fools was both kind of excited about this that night.

"The next day she breezes in again and tries to get them to knock off an hour early so she
can take them to the country club for tea, but they refuse this, so she makes little putty
statues of them both and drove a few nails where they would do no good and upset a bucket of
paste and leaned a two-hundred-dollar lace thing against a varnished wall to the detriment
of both, and fell off a stepladder. Old Angus caught her and boxed her ears soundly. And again
she drove them through the avenues of a colony of fine old families with money a little bit
older, by a few days, and up the drive to their own door.

"Ellabelle was peeking between the plush curtains on this occasion, for some heartless busybody
during the day had told her that her son and husband was both renegades now. And strangely
enough, she begun to get back her strength from that very moment--seeing that exclusive and
well-known young debby-tant consorting in public with the reprobates. I'm darned if she didn't
have the genius after that to treat the whole thing as a practical joke, especially when she
finds out that none of them exclusives had had it long enough to look down on another millionaire
merely for pinching a penny now and then. Old Angus as a matter of fact had become just a little
more important than she had ever been and could have snubbed any one he wanted to. The only
single one in the whole place that throwed him down was his own English valet. He was found
helpless drunk in a greenhouse the third day, having ruined nine thousand dollars' worth of
orchids he'd gone to sleep amongst, and he resigned his position with bitter dignity the moment
he recovered consciousness.

"Moreover, young Angus and this girl clenched without further opposition. Her train-robber
father said the boy must have something in him even if he didn't look it, and old Angus said
he still believed the girl to be nothing but a yellow-haired soubrette; but what should we
expect of a woman, after all?

"The night the job was finished we had the jolliest dinner of my visit, with a whole gang of
exclusive-setters at the groaning board, including this girl and her folks, and champagne,
of which Angus, peer, consumed near one of the cut-glass vases full.

"I caught him with young Angus in the deserted library later, while the rest was one-stepping
in the Henry Quatter ballroom or dance hall. The old man had his arms pretty well upon the
boy's shoulders. Yes, sir, he was almost actually hugging him. The boy fled to this gilded
café where the rest was, and old Angus, with his eyes shining very queer, he grabs me by the
arm and says, 'Once when he was very small--though unusually large for his age of three, mind
you--he had a way of scratching my face something painful with his little nails, and all in
laughing play, you know. I tried to warn him, but he couldn't understand, of course; so, not
knowing how else to instruct him, I scratched back one day, laughing myself like he was, but
sinking my nails right fierce into the back of his little fat neck. He relaxed the tension
in his own fingers. He was hurt, for the tears started, but he never cried. He just looked
puzzled and kept on laughing, being bright to see I could play the game, too. Only he saw it
wasn't so good a game as he'd thought. I wonder what made me think of that, now! I don't know.
Come--from yonder doorway we can see him as he dances.'

"And Ellabelle was saying gently to one and all, with her merry peal of laughter, 'Ah, yes--once
a Scotchman, always--'

"My land! It's ten o'clock. Don't them little white-faced beauties make the music! Honestly
I'd like to have a cot out in the corral. We miss a lot of it in here."

V

NON PLUSH ULTRA

Sunday and a driving rain had combined to keep Ma Pettengill within the Arrowhead ranch house.
Neither could have done this alone. The rain would merely have added a slicker to her business
costume of khaki riding breeches, laced boots, and flannel shirt as she rode abroad; while
a clement Sabbath would have seen her "resting," as she would put it, in and round the various
outbuildings, feeding-pens, blacksmith shop, harness-room, branding-chute, or what not, issuing
orders to attentive henchmen from time to time; diagnosing the gray mule's barbed-wire cut;
compounding a tonic for Adolph, the big milk-strain Durham bull, who has been ailing; wishing
to be told why in something the water hadn't been turned into that south ditch; and, like a
competent general, disposing her forces and munitions for the campaign of the coming week.
But Sunday--and a wildly rainy Sunday--had housed her utterly.

Being one who can idle with no grace whatever she was engaged in what she called putting the
place to rights. This meant taking out the contents of bureau drawers and wardrobes and putting
them back again, massing the litter on the big table in the living-room into an involved geometry
of neat piles that would endure for all of an hour, straightening pictures on the walls, eliminating
the home-circles of spiders long unmolested, loudly calling upon Lew Wee, the Chinaman, who
affrightedly fled farther and farther after each call, and ever and again booming pained surmises
through the house as to what fearful state it would get to be in if she didn't fight it to
a clean finish once in a dog's age.

The woman dumped a wastebasket of varied rubbish into the open fire, leaned a broom against
the mantel, readjusted the towel that protected her gray hair from the dust--hair on week days
exposed with never a qualm to all manner of dust--cursed all Chinamen on land or sea with an
especial and piquant blight invoked upon the one now in hiding, then took from the back of
a chair where she had hung it the moment before a riding skirt come to feebleness and decrepitude.
She held it up before critical eyes as one scanning the morning paper for headlines of significance.

"Ruined!" she murmured. Even her murmur must have reached Lew Wee, how remote soever his isle
of safety. "Worn one time and all ruined up! That's what happens for trying to get something
for nothing. You'd think women would learn. You would if you didn't know a few. Hetty Daggett,
her that was Hetty Tipton, orders this by catalogue, No. 3456 or something, from the mail-order
house in Chicago. I was down in Red Gap when it come. 'Isn't it simply wonderful what you can
get for three thirty-eight!' says she with gleaming eyes, laying this thing out before me.
'I don't see how they can ever do it for the money.' She found out the next day when she rode
up here in it with me and Mr. Burchell Daggett, her husband. Nothing but ruin! Seams all busted,
sleazy cloth wore through. But Hetty just looks it over cheerfully and says: 'Oh, well, what
can you expect for three thirty-eight?' Is that like a woman or is it like something science
has not yet discovered?

"That Hetty child is sure one woman. This skirt would never have held together to ride back
in, so she goes down as far as the narrow gauge in the wagon with Buck Devine, wearing a charming
afternoon frock of pale blue charmeuse rather than get into a pair of my khakis and ride back
with her own lawful-wedded husband; yes, sir; married to him safe as anything, but wouldn't
forget her womanhood. Only once did she ever come near it. I saved her then because she hadn't
snared Mr. Burchell Daggett yet, and of course a girl has to be a little careful. And she took
my counsels so much to heart she's been careful ever since. 'Why, I should simply die of mortification
if my dear mate were to witness me in those,' says she when I'm telling her to take a chance
for once and get into these here riding pants of mine because it would be uncomfortable going
down in that wagon. 'But what is my comfort compared to dear Burchell's peace of mind?' says she.

"Ain't we the goods, though, when we do once learn a thing? Of course most of us don't have
to learn stuff like this. Born in us. I shouldn't wonder if they was something in the talk
of this man Shaw or Shavian--I see the name spelled both ways in the papers. I can't read his
pieces myself because he rasps me, being not only a smarty but a vegetarian. I don't know.
I might stand one or the other purebred, but the cross seems to bring out the worst strain
in both. I once got a line on his beliefs and customs though--like it appears he don't believe
anything ought to be done for its own sake but only for some good purpose. It was one day I
got caught at a meeting of the Onward and Upward Club in Red Gap and Mrs. Alonzo Price read
a paper about his meaning. I hope she didn't wrong him. I hope she was justified in all she
said he really means in his secret heart. No one ought to talk that way about any one if they
ain't got the goods on 'em. One thing I might have listened to with some patience if the man
et steaks and talked more like some one you'd care to have in your own home. In fact, I listened
to it anyway. Maybe he took it from some book he read--about woman and her true nature. According
to Henrietta Templeton Price, as near as I could get her, this Shaw or Shavian believes that
women is merely a flock of men-hawks circling above the herd till they see a nice fat little
lamb of a man, then one fell swoop and all is over but the screams of the victim dying out
horribly. They bear him off to their nest in a blasted pine and pick the meat from his bones
at leisure. Of course that ain't the way ladies was spoken of in the Aunt Patty Little Helper
Series I got out of the Presbyterian Sabbath-school library back in Fredonia, New York, when
I was thirteen--and yet--and yet--as they say on the stage in these plays of high or English life."

It sounded promising enough, and the dust had now settled so that I could dimly make out the
noble lines of my hostess. I begged for more.

"Well, go on--Mrs. Burchell Daggett once nearly forgot her womanhood. Certainly, go on, if
it's anything that would be told outside of a smoking-car."

The lady grinned.

"Many of us has forgot our womanhood in the dear, dead past," she confessed. "Me? Sure! Where's
that photo album. Where did I put that album anyway? That's the way in this house. Get things
straightened up once, you can't find a single one you want. Look where I put it now!" She demolished
an obelisk of books on the table, one she had lately constructed with some pains, and brought
the album that had been its pedestal. "Get me there, do you?"

It was the photograph of a handsome young woman in the voluminous riding skirt of years gone
by, before the side-saddle became extinct. She held a crop and wore an astoundingly plumed
bonnet. Despite the offensive disguise, one saw provocation for the course adopted by the late
Lysander John Pettengill at about that period.

"Very well--now get me here, after I'd been on the ranch only a month." It was the same young
woman in the not too foppish garb of a cowboy. In wide-brimmed hat, flannel shirt, woolly chaps,
quirt in hand, she bestrode a horse that looked capable and daring.

"Yes, sir, I hadn't been here only a month when I forgot my womanhood like that. Gee! How good
it felt to get into 'em and banish that sideshow tent of a skirt. I'd never known a free moment
before and I blessed Lysander John for putting me up to it. Then, proud as Punch, what do I
do but send one of these photos back to dear old Aunt Waitstill, in Fredonia, thinking she
would rejoice at the wild, free life I was now leading in the Far West. And what do I get for
it but a tear-spotted letter of eighteen pages, with a side-kick from her pastor, the Reverend
Abner Hemingway, saying he wishes to indorse every word of Sister Baxter's appeal to me--asking
why do I parade myself shamelessly in this garb of a fallen woman, and can nothing be said
to recall me to the true nobility that must still be in my nature but which I am forgetting
in these licentious habiliments, and so on! The picture had been burned after giving the Reverend
his own horrified flash of it, and they would both pray daily that I might get up out of this
degradation and be once more a good, true woman that some pure little child would not be ashamed
to call the sacred name of mother.

"Such was Aunt Waitstill--what names them poor old girls had to stand for! I had another aunt
named Obedience, only she proved to be a regular cinch-binder. Her name was never mentioned
in the family after she slid down a rainspout one night and eloped to marry a depraved scoundrel
who drove through there on a red wagon with tinware inside that he would trade for old rags.
I'm just telling you how times have changed in spite of the best efforts of a sanctified ministry.
I cried over that letter at first. Then I showed it to Lysander John, who said 'Oh, hell!'
being a man of few words, so I felt better and went right on forgetting my womanhood in that
shameless garb of a so-and-so--though where aunty had got her ideas of such I never could make
out--and it got to be so much a matter of course and I had so many things to think of besides
my womanhood that I plumb forgot the whole thing until this social upheaval in Red Gap a few
years ago.

"I got to tell you that the wild and lawless West, in all matters relating to proper dress
for ladies, is the most conservative and hidebound section of our great land of the free and
home of the brave--if you can get by with it. Out here the women see by the Sunday papers that
it's being wore that way publicly in New York and no one arrested for it, but they don't hardly
believe it at that, and they wouldn't show themselves in one, not if you begged them to on
your bended knees, and what is society coming to anyway? You might as well dress like one of
them barefooted dancers, only calling 'em barefooted must be meant like sarcasm--and they'd
die before they'd let a daughter of theirs make a show of herself like that for odious beasts
of men to leer at, and so on--until a couple years later Mrs. Henrietta Templeton Price gets
a regular one and wears it down Main Street, and nothing objectionable happens; so then they
all hustle to get one--not quite so extreme, of course, but after all, why not, since only
the evil-minded could criticise? Pretty soon they're all wearing it exactly like New York did
two years ago, with mebbe the limit raised a bit here and there by some one who makes her own.
But again they're saying that the latest one New York is wearing is so bad that it must be
confined to a certain class of women, even if they do get taken from left to right at Asbury
Park and Newport and other colonies of wealth and fashion, because the vilest dregs can go
there if they have the price, which they often do.

"Red Gap is like that. With me out here on the ranch it didn't matter what I wore because it
was mostly only men that saw me; but I can well remember the social upheaval when our smartest
young matrons and well-known society belles flung modesty to the chinook wind and took to divided
skirts for horseback riding. My, the brazen hussies! It ain't so many years ago. Up to that
time any female over the age of nine caught riding a horse cross-saddle would have lost her
character good and quick. And these pioneers lost any of theirs that wasn't cemented good and
hard with proved respectability. I remember hearing Jeff Tuttle tell what he'd do to any of
his womenfolks that so far forgot the sacred names of home and mother. It was startling enough,
but Jeff somehow never done it. And if he was to hear Addie or one of the girls talking about
a side-saddle to-day he'd think she was nutty or mebbe wanting one for the state museum. So
it goes with us. My hunch is that so it will ever go.

"The years passed, and that thrill of viciousness at wearing divided skirts in public got all
rubbed off--that thrill that every last one of us adores to feel if only it don't get her talked
about--too much--by evil-minded gossips. Then comes this here next upheaval over riding pants
for ladies--or them that set themselves up to be such. Of course we'd long known that the things
were worn in New York and even in such modern Babylons as Spokane and Seattle; but no woman
in Red Gap had ever forgot she had a position to keep up, until summer before last, when we
saw just how low one of our sex could fall, right out on the public street.

"She was the wife of a botanist from some Eastern college and him and her rode a good bit and
dressed just alike in khaki things. My, the infamies that was intimated about that poor creature!
She was bony and had plainly seen forty, very severe-featured, with scraggly hair and a sharp
nose and spectacles, and looked as if she had never had a moment of the most innocent pleasure
in all her life; but them riding pants fixed her good in the minds of our lady porch-knockers.
And the men just as bad, though they could hardly bear to look twice at her, she was that discouraging
to the eye; they agreed with their wives that she must be one of that sort.

"But things seem to pile up all at once in our town. That very summer the fashion magazines
was handed round with pages turned down at the more daring spots where ladies were shown in
such things. It wasn't felt that they were anything for the little ones to see. But still,
after all, wasn't it sensible, now really, when you come right down to it? and as a matter
of fact isn't a modest woman modest in anything?--it isn't what she wears but how she conducts
herself in public, or don't you think so, Mrs. Ballard?--and you might as well be dead as out
of style, and would Lehman, the Square Tailor, be able to make up anything like that one there?--but
no, because how would he get your measure?--and surely no modest woman could give him hers
even if she did take it herself--anyway, you'd be insulted by all the street rowdies as you
rode by, to say nothing of being ogled by men without a particle of fineness in their natures--but
there's always something to be said on both sides, and it's time woman came into her own, anyway,
if she is ever to be anything but man's toy for his idle moments--still it would never do to
go to extremes in a narrow little town like this with every one just looking for an excuse
to talk--but it would be different if all the best people got together and agreed to do it,
only most of them would probably back out at the last moment and that smarty on the Recorder
would try to be funny about it--now that one with the long coat doesn't look so terrible, does
it? or do you think so?--of course it's almost the same as a skirt except when you climb on
or something--a woman has to think of those things--wouldn't Daisy Estelle look rather stunning
in that?--she has just the figure for it. Here's this No. 9872 with the Norfolk jacket in this
mail-order catalogue--do you think that looks too theatrical, or don't you? Of course for some
figures, but I've always been able to wear--And so forth, for a month or so.

"Late in the fall Henrietta Templeton Price done it. You may not know what that meant to Alonzo
Price, Choice Villa Sites and Price's Addition to Red Gap. Alonzo is this kind: I met him the
day Gussie Himebaugh had her accident when the mules she was driving to the mowing machine
run away out on Himebaugh's east forty. Alonzo had took Doc Maybury out and passes me coming
back. 'How bad was she hurt?' I asks. The poor thing looks down greatly embarrassed and mumbles:
'She has broken a limb.' 'Leg or arm?' I blurts out, forgetting all delicacy. You'd think I
had him pinned down, wouldn't you? Not Lon, though. 'A lower limb,' says he, coughing and looking
away.

"You see how men are till we put a spike collar and chain on 'em. When Henrietta declared herself
Alonzo read the riot act and declared marital law. But there was Henrietta with the collar
and chain and pretty soon Lon was saying: 'You're quite right, Pettikins, and you ought to
have the thanks of the community for showing our ladies how to dress rationally on horseback.
It's not only sensible and safe but it's modest--a plain pair of riding breeches, no coquetry,
no frills, nothing but stern utility--of course I agree.'

"'I hoped you would, darling,' says Henrietta. She went to Miss Gunslaugh and had her make
the costume, being one who rarely does things by halves. It was of blue velvet corduroy, with
a fetching little bolero jacket, and the things themselves were fitted, if you know what I
mean. And stern utility! That suit with its rosettes and bows and frogs and braid had about
the same stern utility as those pretty little tin tongs that come on top of a box of candy--ever
see anybody use one of those? When Henrietta got dressed for her first ride and had put on
the Cuban Pink Face Balm she looked like one of the gypsy chorus in the Bohemian Girl opera.

"Alonzo gulped several times in rapid succession when he saw her, but the little man never
starts anything he don't aim to finish, and it was too late to start it then. Henrietta brazened
her way through Main Street and out to the country club and back, and next day she put them
on again so Otto Hirsch, of the E-light Studio, could come up and take her standing by the
horse out in front of the Price mansion. Then they was laid away until the Grand Annual Masquerade
Ball of the Order of the Eastern Star, which is a kind of hen Masons, when she again gave us
a flash of what New York society ladies was riding their horse in. As a matter of fact, Henrietta
hates a horse like a rattlesnake, but she had done her pioneer work for once and all.

"Every one was now laughing and sneering at the old-fashioned divided skirt with which woman
had endangered her life on a horse, and wondering how they had endured the clumsy things so
long; and come spring all the prominent young society buds and younger matrons of the most
exclusive set who could stay on a horse at all was getting theirs ready for the approaching
season, Red Gap being like London in having its gayest season in the summer, when people can
get out more. Even Mis' Judge Ballard fell for it, though hers was made of severe black with
a long coat. She looked exactly like that Methodist minister, the old one, that we had three
years ago.

"Most of the younger set used the mail-order catalogue, their figures still permitting it.
And maybe there wasn't a lot of trying on behind drawn blinds pretty soon, and delighted giggles
and innocent girlish wonderings about whether the lowest type of man really ogles as much under
certain circumstances as he's said to. And the minute the roads got good the telephone of Pierce's
Livery, Feed, and Sale Stable was kept on the ring. Then the social upheaval was on. Of course
any of 'em looked quiet after Henrietta's costume, for none of the girls but Beryl Mae Macomber,
a prominent young society bud, aged seventeen, had done anything like that. But it was the
idea of the thing.

"A certain element on the South Side made a lot of talk and stirred things up and wrote letters
to the president of the Civic Purity League, who was Mis' Judge Ballard herself, asking where
this unspeakable disrobing business was going to end and calling her attention to the fate
that befell Sodom and Gomorrah. But Mis' Ballard she's mixed on names and gets the idea these
parties mean Samson and Delilah instead of a couple of twin cities, like St. Paul and Minneapolis,
and she writes back saying what have these Bible characters got to do with a lady riding on
horseback--in trousers, it is true, but with a coat falling modestly to the knee on each side,
and certain people had better be a little more fussy about things that really matter in life
before they begin to talk. She knew who she was hitting at all right, too. Trust Mis' Ballard!

"It was found that there was almost the expected amount of ogling from sidewalk loafers, at
first. As Daisy Estelle Maybury said, it seemed as if a girl couldn't show herself on the public
thoroughfare without being subjected to insult. Poor Daisy Estelle! She had been a very popular
young society belle, and was considered one of the most attractive girls in Red Gap until this
happened. No one had ever suspected it of her in the least degree up to that time. Of course
it was too late after she was once seen off her horse. Them that didn't see was told in full
detail by them that did. Most of the others was luckier. Beryl Mae Macomber in her sport shirt
and trouserettes complained constantly about the odious wretches along Main Street and Fourth,
where the post office was. She couldn't stop even twenty minutes in front of the post office,
minding her own business and waiting for some one she knew to come along and get her mail for
her, without having dozens of men stop and ogle her. That, of course, was during the first
two weeks after she took to going for the mail, though the eternal feminine in Beryl Mae probably
thought the insulting glances was going to keep up forever.

"I watched the poor child one day along in the third week, waiting there in front of the post
office after the four o'clock mail, and no one hardly ogled her at all except some rude children
out from school. What made it more pitiful, leaning right there against the post office front
was Jack Shiels, Sammie Hamilton, and little old Elmer Cox, Red Gap's three town rowdies that
ain't done a stroke of work since the canning factory closed down the fall before, creatures
that by rights should have been leering at the poor child In all her striking beauty. But,
no; the brutes stand there looking at nothing much until Jack Shiels stares a minute at this
horse Beryl Mae is on and pipes up: 'Why, say, I thought Pierce let that little bay runt go
to the guy that was in here after polo ponies last Thursday. I sure did.' And Sam Hamilton
wakes up and says: 'No, sir; not this one. He got rid of a little mare that had shoulders like
this, but she was a roan with kind of mule ears and one froze off.' And little old Elmer Cox,
ignoring this defenceless young girl with his impudent eyes, he says: 'Yes, Sam's right for
once. Pierce tried to let this one go, too, but ain't you took a look at his hocks!' Then along
comes Dean Duke, the ratty old foreman in Pierce's stable, and he don't ogle a bit, either,
like you'd expect one of his debased calibre to, but just stops and talks this horse over with
'em and says yes, it was his bad hocks that lost the sale, and he tells 'em how he had told
Pierce just what to do to get him shaped up for a quick sale, but Pierce wouldn't listen to
him, thinking he knew it all himself; and there the four stood and gassed about this horse
without even seeing Beryl Mae, let alone leering at her. I bet she was close to shedding tears
of girlish mortification as she rode off without ever waiting for the mail. Things was getting
to a pretty pass. If low creatures lost to all decent instincts, like these four, wouldn't
ogle a girl when she was out for it, what could be expected of the better element of the town?
Still, of course, now and then one or the other of the girls would have a bit of luck to tell of.

"Well, now we come to the crookedest bit of work I ever been guilty of, though first telling
you about Mr. Burchell Daggett, an Eastern society man from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, that had come
to Red Gap that spring to be assistant cashier in the First National, through his uncle having
stock in the thing. He was a very pleasant kind of youngish gentleman, about thirty-four, I
reckon, with dark, parted whiskers and gold eyeglasses and very good habits. He took his place
among our very best people right off, teaching the Bible class in the M.E. Sabbath-school and
belonging to the Chamber of Commerce and the City Beautiful Association, of which he was made
vice-president, and being prominent at all functions held in our best homes. He wasn't at all
one of them that lead a double life by stopping in at the Family Liquor Store for a gin fizz
or two after work hours, or going downtown after supper to play Kelly pool at the Temperance
Billiard Parlours and drink steam beer, or getting in with the bunch that gathers in the back
room of the Owl Cigar Store of an evening and tells these here suggestive stories. Not that
he was hide-bound. If he felt the need for a shot of something he'd go into the United States
Grill and have a glass of sherry and bitters brought to him at a table and eat a cracker with
it, and he'd take in every show, even the Dizzy Belles of Gotham Big Blonde Beauty Show. He
was refined and even moral in the best sense of the word, but still human.

"Our prominent young society buds took the keenest notice of him at once, as would naturally
happen, he being a society bachelor of means and by long odds the best catch in Red Gap since
old Potter Knapp, of the Loan and Trust Company, had broke his period of mourning for his third
wife by marrying Myrtle Wade that waited on table at the Occidental Hotel, with the black band
still on his left coat sleeve. It's no exaggeration to say that Mr. Burchell Daggett became
the most sought-after social favourite among Reg Gap's hoot mondy in less than a week after
he unpacked his trunk. But it was very soon discovered by the bright-eyed little gangsters
of the best circles that he wasn't going to be an easy one to disable. Naturally when a man
has fought 'em off to his age he has learned much of woodcraft and the hunter's cunning wiles,
and this one had sure developed timber sense. He beat 'em at their own game for three months
by the simple old device of not playing any favourite for one single minute, and very, very
seldom getting alone with one where the foul stroke can be dealt by the frailest hand with
muscular precision. If he took Daisy Estelle Maybury to the chicken pie supper to get a new
carpet for the Presbyterian parsonage, he'd up and take Beryl Mae and her aunt, or Gussie Himebaugh,
or Luella Stultz, to the lawn feet at Judge Ballard's for new uniforms for the band boys. At
the Bazaar of All Nations he bought as many chances of one girl as he did of another, and if
he hadn't any more luck than a rabbit and won something--a hanging lamp or a celluloid manicure
set in a plush-lined box--he'd simply put it up to be raffled off again for the good of the
cause. And none of that moonlight loitering along shaded streets for him, where the dirk is
so often drove stealthily between a man's ribs, and him thinking all the time he's only indulging
in a little playful nonsense. Often as not he'd take two girls at once, where all could be
merry without danger of anything happening.

"It was no time at all till this was found out on him. It was seen that under a pleasing exterior,
looking all too easy to overcome by any girl in her right mind, he had powers of resistance
and evasion that was like steel. Of course this only stirred the proud beauties on to renewed
and crookeder efforts. Every darned one of 'em felt that her innocent young girlhood was challenged,
and would she let it go at that? Not so. My lands! What snares and deadfalls was set for this
wise old timber wolf that didn't look it, with his smiling ways and seemingly careless response
to merry banter, and so forth!

"And of course every one of these shrinking little scoundrels thought at once of her new riding
costume, so no time at all was lost in organizing the North Side Riding and Sports Club, which
Mr. Burchell Daggett gladly joined, having, as he said, an eye for a horse and liking to get
out after banking hours to where all Nature seems to smile and you can let your mount out a
bit over the firm, smooth road. Them that had held off until now, on account of the gossip
and leering, hurried up and got into line with No. 9872 in the mail-order catalogue, or went
to Miss Gunslaugh, who by this time had a female wax dummy in her window in a neat brown suit
and puttees, with a coat just opening and one foot advanced carelessly, with gauntlets and
a riding crop, and a fetching little cap over the wind-blown hair and the clear, wonderful
blue eyes. Oh, you can bet every last girl of the bunch was seeing herself send back picture
postals to her rivals telling what a royal time they was having at Palm or Rockaway Beach or
some place, and seeing the engraved cards--'Mr. and Mrs. Burchell Daggett, at Home After the
Tenth, Ophir Avenue, Red Gap, Wash.'

"Ain't we good when you really get us, if you ever do--because some don't. Many, indeed! I
reckon there never was a woman yet outside of a feeb' home that didn't believe she could be
an A. No. 1 siren if she only had the nerve to dress the part; never one that didn't just ache
to sway men to her lightest whim, and believe she could--not for any evil purpose, mind you,
but just to show her power. Think of the tender hearts that must have shuddered over the damage
they could and actually might do in one of them French bathing suits like you are said to witness
in Paris and Atlantic City and other sinks of iniquity. And here was these well-known society
favourites wrought up by this legible party, as the French say, till each one was ready to
go just as far as the Civic Purity League would let her in order to sweep him off his feet
in one mad moment. Quite right, too. It all depends on what the object is, don't it; and wasn't
theirs honourable matrimony with an establishment and a lawn in front of it with a couple of
cast-iron moose, mebbe?

"And amid all this quaint girlish enterprise and secret infamy was the problem of Hetty Tipton.
Hetty had been a friend and a problem of mine for seven years, or ever since she come back
from normal to teach in the third-grade grammar school; a fine, clean, honest, true-blue girl,
mebbe not as pretty you'd say at first as some others, but you like her better after you look
a few times more, and with not the slightest nonsense about her. That last was Hetty's one
curse. I ask you, what chance has a girl got with no nonsense about her? Hetty won my sympathy
right at the start by this infirmity of hers, which was easily detected, and for seven years
I'd been trying to cure her of it, but no use. Oh, she was always took out regular enough and
well liked, but the gilded youth of Red Gap never fought for her smiles. They'd take her to
parties and dances, turn and turn about, but they always respected her, which is the greatest
blight a man can put on one of us, if you know what I mean. Every man at a party was always
careful to dance a decent number of times with Hetty and see that she got back to her seat;
and wasn't it warm in here this evening, yes, it was; and wouldn't she have a glass of the
punch--No, thank you--then he'd gallop off to have some fun with a mere shallow-pated fool
that had known how from the cradle. It was always a puzzle to me, because Hetty dressed a lot
better than most of them, knowing what to wear and how, and could take a joke if it come slow,
and laid herself out to be amiable to one and all. I kind of think it must be something about
her mentality. Maybe it is too mental. I can't put her to you any plainer than to say that
every single girl in town, young and old, just loved her, and not one of them up to this time
had ever said an unkind or feminine thing about her. I guess you know what that would mean
of any woman.

"Hetty was now coming twenty-nine--we never spoke of this, but I could count back--and it's
my firm belief that no man had ever proposed marriage or anything else on earth to her. Wilbur
Todd had once endeavoured to hold her hand out on the porch at a country-club dance and she
had repulsed him in all kindness but firmly. She told him she couldn't bring herself to permit
a familiarity of that sort except to the man who would one day lead her to the altar, which
is something I believe she got from writing to a magazine about a young girl's perplexities.
And here, in spite of her record, this poor thing had dared to raise her eyes to none other
than this Mr. Burchell Daggett. There was something kind of grand and despairing about the
impudence of it when you remember these here trained efficiency experts she was competing with.
Yet so it was. She would drop in on me after school for a cup of tea and tell me frankly how
distinguished his manner was and what shapely features he had and what fine eyes, and how there
was a certain note in his voice at times, and had I ever noticed that one stubborn lock of
hair that stuck out back of his left ear? Of course that last item settled it. When they notice
that lock of hair you know the ship has struck the reef and all hands are perishing.

"And it seemed that the cuss had not only shown her more than a little attention at evening
functions but had escorted her to the midspring production of 'Hamlet' by the Red Gap Amateur
Theatrical and Dramatic Society. True, he had conducted himself like a perfect gentleman every
minute they was alone together, even when they had to go home in Eddie Pierce's hack because
it was raining when the show let out--but would I, or would I not, suspect from all this that
he was in the least degree thinking of her in a way that--you know!

"Poor child of twenty-eight, with her hungry eyes and flushed face while she was showing down
her hand to me! I seen the scoundrel's play at once. Hetty was the one safe bet for him in
Red Gap's social whirl. He was wise, all right--this Mr. D. He'd known in a second he could
trust himself alone with that girl and be as safe as a babe in its mother's arms. Of course
I couldn't say this to Hetty. I just said he was a man that seemed to know his own mind very
clearly, whatever it was, and Hetty blushed some more and said that something within her responded
to a certain note in his voice. We let it go at that.

"So I think and ponder about poor Hetty, trying to invent some conspiracy that would fix it
right, because she was the ideal mate for an assistant cashier that had a certain position
to keep up. For that matter she was good enough for any man. Then I hear she has joined the
riding club, and an all day's ride has been planned for the next Saturday up to Stender's Spring,
with a basket lunch and a romantic ride back by moonlight. Of course, I don't believe in any
of this spiritualist stuff, but you can't tell me there ain't something in it, mind-reading
or something, with the hunches you get when parties is in some grave danger.

"Stella Ballard it was tells me about the picnic, calling me in as I passed their house to
show me her natty new riding togs that had just come from the mail-order house. She called
from back of a curtain, and when I got into the parlour she had them on, pleased as all get-out.
Pretty they was, too--riding breeches and puttees and a man's flannel shirt and a neat-fitting
Norfolk jacket, and Stella being a fine, upstanding figure.

"'They may cause considerable talk,' says she, smoothing down one leg where it wrinkled a bit,
'but really I think they look perfectly stunning on me, and wasn't it lucky they fit me so
beautifully? They're called the Non Plush Ultra.'

"'The what?' I says.

"'The Non Plush Ultra,' she answers. 'That's the name of them sewed in the band.'

"'What's that mean?' I wanted to know.

"'Why,' says Stella, 'that's Latin or Greek, I forget which, and it means they're the best,
I believe. Oh, let me see! Why, it means nothing beyond, or something like that; the farthest
you can go, I think. One forgets all that sort of thing after leaving high school.'

"'Well,' I says, 'they fit fine, and it's the only modest rig for a woman to ride a horse in,
but they certainly are non plush, all right. That thin goods will never wear long against saddle
leather, take my word for it.'

"But of course this made no impression on Stella--she was standing on the centre table by now,
so she could lamp herself in the glass over the mantel--and then she tells me about the excursion
for Saturday and how Mr. Burchell Daggett is enthused about it, him being a superb horseman
himself, and, if I know what she means, don't I think she carries herself in the saddle almost
better than any girl in her set, and won't her style show better than ever in this duck of
a costume, and she must get her tan shoes polished, and do I think Mr. Daggett really meant
anything when he said he'd expect her some day to return the masonic pin she had lifted off
his vest the other night at the dance, and so on.

"It was while she was babbling this stuff that I get the strange hunch that Hetty Tipton is
in grave danger and I ought to run to her; it seemed almost I could hear her calling on me
to save her from some horrible fate. So I tell Stella yes, she's by far the finest rider in
the whole Kulanche Valley, and she ought to get anything she wants with that suit on, and then
I beat it quick over to the Ezra Button house where Hetty boards.

"You can laugh all you want to, but that hunch of mine was the God's truth. Hetty was in the
gravest danger she'd faced since one time in early infancy when she got give morphine for quinine.
What made it more horrible, she hadn't the least notion of her danger. Quite the contrary.

"'Thank the stars I've come in time!' I gasps as I rushes in on her, for there's the poor girl
before her mirror in a pair of these same Non Plush Ultras and looking as pleased with herself
as if she had some reason to be.

"'Back into your skirts quick!' I says. 'I'm a strong woman and all that, but still I can be
affected more than you'd think.'

"Poor Hetty stutters and turns red and her chin begins to quiver, so I gentled her down and
tried to explain, though seeing quick that I must tell her everything but the truth. I reckon
nothing in this world can look funnier than a woman wearing them things that had never ought
to for one reason or another. There was more reasons than that in Hetty's case. Dignity was
the first safe bet I could think of with her, so I tried that.

"'I know all you would say,' says the poor thing in answer, 'but isn't it true that men rather
like one to be--oh, well, you know--just the least bit daring?'

"'Truest thing in the world,' I says, 'but bless your heart, did you suspicion riding breeches
was daring on a woman? Not so. A girl wearing 'em can't be any more daring after the first
quick shock is over than--well, you read the magazines, don't you? You've seen those pictures
of family life in darkest Africa that the explorers and monkey hunters bring home, where the
wives, mothers, and sweethearts, God bless 'em! wear only what the scorching climate demands.
Didn't it strike you that one of them women without anything on would have a hard time if she
tried to be daring--or did it? No woman can be daring without the proper clothes for it,' I
says firmly, 'and as for you, I tell you plain, get into the most daring and immodest thing
that was ever invented for woman--which is the well-known skirt.'

"'Oh, Ma Pettengill,' cries the poor thing, 'I never meant anything horrid and primitive when
I said daring. As a matter of fact, I think these are quite modest to the intelligent eye.'

"'Just what I'm trying to tell you,' I says. 'Exactly that; they're modest to any eye whatever.
But here you are embarked on a difficult enterprise, with a band of flinty-hearted cutthroats
trying to beat you to it, and, my dear child, you have a staunch nature and a heart of gold,
but you simply can't afford to be modest.'

"'I don't understand,' says she, looking at herself in the glass again.

"'Trust me, anyway,' I implores. 'Let others wear their Non Plush Ultras which are No. 9872'--she
tries to correct my pronunciation, but I wouldn't stop for that. 'Never mind how it's pronounced,'
I says, 'because I know well the meaning of it in a foreign language. It means the limit, and
it's a very desirable limit for many, but for you,' I says plainly, 'it's different. Your Non
Plush Ultra will have to be a neat, ankle-length riding skirt. You got one, haven't you?'

"'I have,' says she, 'a very pretty one of tan corduroy, almost new, but I had looked forward
to these, and I don't see yet--'

"Then I thought of another way I might get to her without blurting out the truth. 'Listen,
Hetty,' I says, 'and remember not only that I'm your friend but that I know a heap more about
this fool world than you do. I've had bitter experiences, and one of them got me at the time
I first begun to wear riding pants myself, which must have been about the time you was beginning
to bite dents into your silver mug that Aunt Caroline sent. I was a handsome young hellion,
I don't mind telling you, and they looked well on me, and when Lysander John urged me to be
brave and wear 'em outside I was afraid all the men within a day's ride was going to sneak
round to stare at me. My! I was so embarrassed, also with that same feeling you got in your
heart this minute that it was taking an unfair advantage of any man--you know! I felt like
I was using all the power of my young beauty for unworthy ends.

"'Well, do you know what I got when I first rode out on the ranch? I got just about the once-over
from every brute there, and that was all. If one of them ranch hands had ever ogled me a second
time I'd have known it all right, but I never caught one of the scoundrels at it. First I said:
"Now, ain't that fine and chivalrous?" Then I got wise. It wasn't none of this here boasted
Western chivalry, but just plain lack of interest. I admit it made me mad at first. Any man
on the place was only too glad to look me over when I had regular clothes on, but dress me
like Lysander John and they didn't look at me any oftener than they did him. Not as often,
of course, because as a plain human being and man's equal I wasn't near as interesting as he was.'

"'But then, too,' says Hetty, who had only been about half listening to my lecture, 'I thought
it might be striking a blow at the same time for the freedom of woman.'

"Well, you know how that freedom-of-the-sex talk always gets me going. I was mad enough for
a minute to spank her just as she stood there in them Non Plush Ultras she was so proud of.
And I did let out some high talk. Mrs. Dutton told her afterward she thought sure we was having
words.

"'Freedom from skirts,' I says, 'is the last thing your sex wants. Skirts is the final refuge
of immodesty, to which women will cling like grim death. They will do any possible thing to
a skirt--slit it, thin it, shorten it, hike it up one side--people are setting up nights right
now thinking up some new thing to do to it--but women won't give it up and dress modestly as
men do because it's the only unfair drag they got left with the men. I see one of our offended
sex is daily asking right out in a newspaper: "Are women people?" I'd just like to whisper
to her that no one yet knows.

"'If they'll quit their skirts, dress as decently as a man does so they won't have any but
a legitimate pull with him, we'd have a chance to find out if they're good for anything else.
As a matter of fact, they don't want to be people and dress modestly and wear hats you couldn't
pay over eight dollars for. I believe there was one once, but the poor thing never got any
notice from either sex after she became--a people, as you might say.'

"Well, I was going on to get off a few more things I'd got madded up to, but I caught the look
in poor Hetty's face, and it would have melted a stone. Poor child! There she was, wanting
a certain man and willing to wear or not wear anything on earth that would nail him, and not
knowing what would do it, and complicating her ignorance with meaningless worries about modesty
and daringness and the freedom of her poor sex, that ain't ever even deuce-low with one woman
in a million.

"And right then, watching her distress, all at once I get my big inspiration--it just flooded
me like the sun coming up. I don't know if I'm like other folks, but things do come to me that
way. And not only was it a great truth, but it got me out of the hole of having to tell Hetty
certain truths about herself that these Non Plush Ultras made all too glaring.

"'Listen,' I says: 'You believe I'm your friend, don't you? And you believe anything I tell
you is from the heart out and will probably have a grain of sense in it. Well, here is an inspired
thought: Women won't ever dress modestly like men do because men don't want 'em to. I never
saw a man yet that did if he'd tell the truth, and so this here dark city stranger won't be
any exception. Now, then, what do we see on Saturday next? Why, we see this here gay throng
sally forth for Stender's Spring, the youth and beauty of Red Gap, including Mr. D., with his
nice refined odour of Russia leather and bank bills of large size--from fifties up--that haven't
been handled much. The crowd is of all sexes, technically, like you might say; a lot of nice,
sweet girls along but dressed to be mere jolly young roughnecks, and just as interesting to
the said stranger as the regular boys that will be present--hardly more so. And now, as for
poor little meek you--you will look wild and Western, understand me, but feminine; exactly
like the coloured cigarette picture that says under it "Rocky Mountain Cow Girl." You will
be in your pretty tan skirt--be sure to have it pressed--and a blue-striped sport bloose that
I just saw in the La Mode window, and you'll get some other rough Western stuff there, too:
a blue silk neckerchief and a natty little cow-girl sombrero--the La Mode is showing a good
one called the La Parisienne for four fifty-eight--and the daintiest pair of tan kid gauntlets
you can find, and don't forget a pair of tan silk stockings--'

"'They won't show in my riding boots,' says Hetty, looking as if she was coming to life a little.

"'Tush for the great, coarse, commonsense riding boots,' I says firmly; 'you will wear precisely
that neat little pair of almost new tan pumps with the yellow bows that you're standing in
now. Do you get me?'

"'But that would be too dainty and absurd,' says Hetty.

"'Exactly!' I says, shutting my mouth hard.

"'Why, I almost believe I do get you,' says she, looking religiously up into the future like
that lady saint playing the organ in the picture.

"'Another thing,' I says: 'You are deathly afraid of a horse and was hardly ever on one but
once when you were a teeny girl, but you do love the open life, so you just nerved yourself
up to come.'

"'I believe I see more clearly than ever,' says Hetty. She grew up on a ranch, knows more about
a horse than the horse himself does, and would be a top rider most places, with the cheap help
we get nowadays that can hardly set a saddle.

"'Also from time to time,' I goes on, 'you want to ask this Mr. D. little, timid, silly questions
that will just tickle him to death and make him feel superior. Ask him to tell you which legs
of a horse the chaps go on, and other things like that; ask him if the sash that holds the
horrid old saddle on isn't so tight it's hurting your horse. After the lunch is et, go over
to the horse all alone and stroke his nose and call him a dear and be found by the gent when
he follows you over trying to feed the noble animal a hard-boiled egg and a couple of pickles
or something. Take my word for it, he'll be over all right and have a hearty laugh at your
confusion, and begin to wonder what it is about you.

"'How about falling off and spraining my ankle on the way back?' demands the awakening vestal
with a gleam in her eye.

"'No good,' I says; 'pretty enough for a minute, but it would make trouble if you kept up the
bluff, and if there's one thing a man hates more than another it's to have a woman round that
makes any trouble.'

"'You have me started on a strange new train of thought,' says Hetty.

"'I think it's a good one,' I tells her, 'but remember there are risks. For one thing, you
know how popular you have always been with all the girls. Well, after this day none of 'em
will hardly speak to you because of your low-lifed, deceitful game, and the things they'll
say of you--such things as only woman can say of woman!'

"'I shall not count the cost,' says she firmly. 'And now I must hurry down for that sport bloose--blue-striped,
you said?'

"'Something on that order,' I says, 'that fits only too well. You can do almost anything you
want to with your neck and arms, but remember strictly--a skirt is your one and only Non Plush
Ultra.'

"So I went home all flushed and eager, thinking joyously how little men--the poor dubs--ever
suspect how it's put over on 'em, and the next day, which was Friday, I thought of a few more
underhand things she could do. So when she run in to see me that afternoon, the excitement
of the chase in her eye, she wanted I should go along on this picnic. I says yes, I will, being
that excited myself and wanting to see really if I was a double-faced genius or wasn't I? Henrietta
Price couldn't go on account of being still lame from her ride of a week ago, so I could go
as chaperone, and anyway I knew the dear girls would all be glad to have me because I would
look so different from them--like a genial old ranch foreman going out on rodeo--and the boys
was always glad to see me along anyway. 'I'll be there,' I says to Hetty. 'And here--don't
forget at all times to-morrow to carry this little real lace handkerchief I'm giving you.'

"I was at the meeting-place next morning at nine. None of the other girls was on time, of course,
but that was just as well, because Aggie Tuttle had got her father to come down to the sale
yard to pack a mule with the hampers of lunch. Jeff Tuttle is a good packer all right, but
too inflamed in the case of a mule, which he hates. They always know up and down that street
when he's packing one; ladies drag their children by as fast as they can. But Jeff had the
hitch all throwed before any of the girls showed up, and all began in a lovely manner, the
crowd of about fifteen getting off not more than an hour late; Mr. Burchell in the lead and
a bevy of these jolly young rascals in their Non Plush Ultras riding herd on him.

"Every girl cast cordial glances of pity at poor Hetty when she showed up in her neat skirt
and silly tan pumps with the ridiculous silk stockings and the close-fitting blue-striped thing,
free at the neck, and her pretty hair all neated under the La Parisienne cow-girl hat. Oh,
they felt kinder than ever before to poor old Hetty when they saw her as little daring as that,
cheering her with a hearty uproar, slapping their Non Plush Ultras with their caps or gloves,
and then giggling confidentially to one another. Hetty accepted their applause with what they
call a pretty show of confusion and gored her horse with her heel on the off side so it looked
as if the vicious brute was running away and she might fall off any minute, but somehow she
didn't, and got him soothed with frightened words and by taking the hidden heel out of his
slats--though not until Mr. D. had noticed her good and then looked again once or twice.

"And so the party moved on for an hour or two, with the roguish young roughnecks cutting up
merrily at all times, pretending to be cowboys coming to town on pay day, swinging their hats,
giving the long yell, and doing roughriding to cut each other away from the side of Mr. D.
every now and then, with a noisy laugh of good nature to hide the poisoned dagger. Daisy Estelle
Maybury is an awful good rider, too, and got next to the hero about every time she wanted to.
Poor thing, if she only knew that once she gets off a horse in 'em it makes all the difference
in the world.

"The dark city stranger seemed to enjoy it fine, all this noise and cutting up and cowboy antics
like they was just a lot of high-spirited young men together, but I never weakened in my faith
for one minute. 'Laugh on, my proud beauties,' I says, 'but a time will come, just as sure
as you look and act like a passel of healthy boys.' And you bet it did.

"We hadn't got halfway to Stender's Spring till Mr. D. got off to tighten his cinch, and then
he sort of drifted back to where Hetty and I was. I dropped back still farther to where a good
chaperone ought to be and he rode in beside Hetty. The trail was too narrow then for the rest
to come back after their prey, so they had to carry on the rough work among themselves.

"Hetty acted perfect. She had a pensive, withdrawn look--'aloof,' I guess the word is--like
she was too tender a flower, too fine for this rough stuff, and had ought to be in the home
that minute telling a fairy story to the little ones gathered at her decently clad knee. I
don't know how she done it, but she put that impression over. And she tells Mr. D. that in
spite of her quiet, studious tastes she had resolved to come on this picnic because she loves
Nature oh! so dearly, the birds and the wild flowers and the great rugged trees that have their
message for man if he will but listen with an understanding heart--didn't Mr. D. think so,
or did he? But not too much of this dear old Nature stuff, which can be easy overdone with
a healthy man; just enough to show there was hidden depths in her nature that every one couldn't
find.

"Then on to silly questions about does a horse lie down when it goes to sleep each night after
its hard day's labour, and isn't her horse's sash too tight, and what a pretty fetlock he has,
so long and thick and brown--Oh, do you call that the mane? How absurd of poor little me! Mr.
Daggett knows just everything, doesn't he? He's perfectly terrifying. And where in the world
did he ever learn to ride so stunningly, like one of those dare-devils in a Wild West entertainment?
If her own naughty, naughty horse tries to throw her on the ground again where he can bite
her she'll just have Mr. D. ride the nassy ole sing and teach him better manners, so she will.
There now! He must have heard that--just see him move his funny ears--don't tell her that horses
can't understand things that are said. And, seriously now, where did Mr. D. ever get his superb
athletic training, because, oh! how all too rare it is to see a brain-worker of strong mentality
and a splendid athlete in one and the same man. Oh, how pathetically she had wished and wished
to be a man and take her place out in the world fighting its battles, instead of poor little
me who could never be anything but a homebody to worship the great, strong, red-blooded men
who did the fighting and carried on great industries--not even an athletic girl like those
dear things up ahead--and this horse is bobbing up and down like that on purpose, just to make
poor little me giddy, and so forth. Holding her bridle rein daintily she was with the lace
handkerchief I'd give her that cost me twelve fifty.

"Mr. D. took it all like a real man. He said her ignorance of a horse was adorable and laughed
heartily at it. And he smiled in a deeply modest and masterful way and said 'But, really, that's
nothing--nothing at all, I assure you,' when she said about how he was a corking athlete--and
then kept still to see if she was going on to say more about it. But she didn't, having the
God-given wisdom to leave him wanting. And then he would be laughing again at her poor-little-me
horse talk.

"I never had a minute's doubt after that, for it was the eyes of one fascinated to a finish
that he turned back on me half an hour later as he says: 'Really, Mrs. Pettengill, our Miss
Hester is feminine to her finger tips, is she not?' 'She is, she is,' I answers. 'If you only
knew the trouble I had with the chit about that horrible old riding skirt of hers when all
her girl friends are wearing a sensible costume!' Hetty blushed good and proper at this, not
knowing how indecent I might become, and Mr. D. caught her at it. Aggie Tuttle and Stella Ballard
at this minute is pretending to be shooting up a town with the couple of revolvers they'd brought
along in their cunning little holsters. Mr. D. turns his glazed eyes to me once more. 'The
real womanly woman,' says he in a hushed voice, 'is God's best gift to man.' Just like that.

"'Landed!' I says to myself. 'Throw him up on the bank and light a fire.'

"And mebbe you think this tet-à-tet had not been noticed by the merry throng up front. Not
so. The shouting and songs had died a natural death, and the last three miles of that trail
was covered in a gloomy silence, except for the low voices of Hetty and the male she had so
neatly pronged. I could see puzzled glances cast back at them and catch mutterings of bewilderment
where the trail would turn on itself. But the poor young things didn't yet realize that their
prey was hanging back there for reasons over which he hadn't any control. They thought, of
course, he was just being polite or something.

"When we got to the picnic place, though, they soon saw that all was not well. There was some
resumption of the merrymaking as they dismounted and the girls put one stirrup over the saddle-horn
and eased the cinch like the boys did, and proud of their knowledge, but the glances they now
shot at Hetty wasn't bewildered any more. They was glances of pure fright. Hetty, in the first
place, had to be lifted off her horse, and Mr. D. done it in a masterly way to show her what
a mere feather she was in his giant's grasp. Then with her feet on the ground she reeled a
mite, so he had to support her. She grasped his great strong arm firmly and says: 'It's nothing--I
shall be right presently--leave me please, go and help those other girls.' They had some low,
heated language about his leaving her at such a crisis, with her gripping his arm till I bet
it showed for an hour. But finally they broke and he loosened her horse's sash, as she kept
quaintly calling it, and she recovered completely and said it had been but a moment's giddiness
anyway, and what strength he had in those arms, and yet could use it so gently, and he said
she was a brave, game little woman, and the picnic was served to one and all, with looks of
hearty suspicion and rage now being shot at Hetty from every other girl there.

"And now I see that my hunch has been even better than I thought. Not only does the star male
hover about Hetty, cutely perched on a fallen log with her dainty, gleaming ankles crossed,
and looking so fresh and nifty and feminine, but I'm darned if three or four of the other males
don't catch the contagion of her woman's presence and hang round her, too, fetching her food
of every kind there, feeding her spoonfuls of Aggie Tuttle's plum preserves, and all like that,
one comical thing after another. Yes, sir; here was Mac Gordon and Riley Hardin and Charlie
Dickman and Roth Hyde, men about town of the younger dancing set, that had knowed Hetty for
years and hardly ever looked at her--here they was paying attentions to her now like she was
some prize beauty, come down from Spokane for over Sunday, to say nothing of Mr. D., who hardly
ever left her side except to get her another sardine sandwich or a paper cup of coffee. It
was then I see the scientific explanation of it, like these high-school professors always say
that science is at the bottom of everything. The science of this here was that they was all
devoting themselves to Hetty for the simple reason that she was the one and only woman there
present.

"Of course these girls in their modest Non Plush Ultras didn't get the scientific secret of
this fact. They was still too obsessed with the idea that they ought to be ogled on account
of them by any male beast in his right senses. But they knew they'd got in wrong somehow. By
this time they was kind of bunching together and telling each other things in low tones, while
not seeming to look at Hetty and her dupes, at which all would giggle in the most venemous
manner. Daisy Estelle left the bunch once and made a coy bid for the notice of Mr. D. by snatching
his cap and running merrily off with it about six feet. If there was any one in the world--except
Hetty--could make a man hate the idea of riding pants for women, she was it. I could see the
cold, flinty look come into his eyes as he turned away from her to Hetty with the pitcher of
lemonade. And then Beryl Mae Macomber, she gets over close enough for Mr. D. to hear it, and
says conditions is made very inharmonious at home for a girl of her temperament, and she's
just liable any minute to chuck everything and either take up literary work or go into the
movies, she don't know which and don't care--all kind of desperate so Mr. D. will feel alarmed
about a beautiful young thing like that out in the world alone and unprotected and at the mercy
of every designing scoundrel. But I don't think Mr. D. hears a word of it, he's so intently
listening to Hetty who says here in this beautiful mountain glade where all is peace how one
can't scarcely believe that there is any evil in the world anywhere, and what a difference
it does make when one comes to see life truly. Then she crossed and recrossed her silken ankles,
slightly adjusted her daring tan skirt, and raised her eyes wistfully to the treetops, and
I bet there wasn't a man there didn't feel that she belonged in the home circle with the little
ones gathered about, telling 'em an awfully exciting story about the naughty, naughty, bad
little white kitten and the ball of mamma's yarn.

"Yes, sir; Hetty was as much of a revelation to me in one way as she would of been to that
party in another if I hadn't saved her from it. She must have had the correct female instinct
all these years, only no one had ever started her before on a track where there was no other
entries. With those other girls dressed like she was Hetty would of been leaning over some
one's shoulder to fork up her own sandwiches, and no one taking hardly any notice whether she'd
had some of the hot coffee or whether she hadn't. And the looks she got throughout the afternoon!
Say, I wouldn't of trusted that girl at the edge of a cliff with a single pair of those No.
9872's anywhere near.

"After the lunch things was packed up there was faint attempts at fun and frolic with songs
and chorus--Riley Hardin has a magnificent bass voice at times and Mac Gordon and Charlie Dickman
and Roth Hyde wouldn't be so bad if they'd let these Turkish cigarettes alone--and the boys
got together and sung some of their good old business-college songs, with the girls coming
in while they murdered Hetty with their beautiful eyes. But Hetty and Mr. D. sort of withdrew
from the noisy enjoyment and talked about the serious aspects of life and how one could get
along almost any place if only they had their favourite authors. And Mr. D. says doesn't she
sing at all, and she says, Oh! in a way; that her voice has a certain parlour charm, she has
been told, and she sings at--you can't really call it singing--two or three of the old Scotch
songs of homely sentiment like the Scotch seem to get into their songs as no other nation can,
or doesn't he think so, and he does, indeed. And he's reading a wonderful new novel in which
there is much of Nature with its lessons for each of us, but in which love conquers all at
the end, and the girl in it reminds him strongly of her, and perhaps she'll be good enough
to sing for him--just for him alone in the dusk--if he brings this book up to-morrow night
so he can show her some good places in it.

"At first she is sure she has a horrid old engagement for to-morrow night and is so sorry,
but another time, perhaps--Ain't it a marvel the crooked tricks that girl had learned in one
day! And then she remembers that her engagement is for Tuesday night--what could she have been
thinking of!--and come by all means--only too charmed--and how rarely nowadays does one meet
one on one's own level of culture, or perhaps that is too awful a word to use--so hackneyed--but
anyway he knows what she means, or doesn't he? He does.

"Pretty soon she gets up and goes over to her horse, picking her way daintily in the silly
little tan pumps, and seems to be offering the beast something. The stricken man follows her
the second he can without being too raw about it, and there is the adorably feminine thing
with a big dill pickle, two deviled eggs, and a half of one of these Camelbert cheeses for
her horse. Mr. D. has a good masterly laugh at her idea of horse fodder and calls her 'But,
my dear child!' and she looks prettily offended and offers this chuck to the horse and he gulps
it all down and noses round for more of the same. It was an old horse named Croppy that she'd
known from childhood and would eat anything on earth. She rode him up here once and he nabbed
a bar of laundry soap off the back porch and chewed the whole thing down with tears of ecstasy
in his eyes and frothing at the mouth like a mad dog. Well, so Hetty gives mister man a look
of dainty superiority as she flicks crumbs from her white fingers with my real lace handkerchief,
and he stops his hearty laughter and just stares, and she says what nonsense to think the poor
horses don't like food as well as any one. Them little moments have their effect on a man in
a certain condition. He knew there probably wasn't another horse in the world would touch that
truck, but he couldn't help feeling a strange new respect for her in addition to that glorious
masculine protection she'd had him wallowing in all day.

"The ride home, at least on the part of the Non Plush Ultra cut-ups, was like they had laid
a loved one to final rest out there on the lone mountainside. The handsome stranger and Hetty
brought up the rear, conversing eagerly about themselves and other serious topics. I believe
he give her to understand that he'd been pretty wild at one time in his life and wasn't any
too darned well over it yet, but that some good womanly woman who would study his ways could
still take him and make a man of him; and her answering that she knew he must have suffered
beyond human endurance in that horrible conflict with his lower nature. He said he had.

"Of course the rabid young hoydens up ahead made a feeble effort now and then to carry it off
lightly, and from time to time sang 'My Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean,' or 'Merrily We Roll Along,'
with the high, squeaky tenor of Roth Hyde sounding above the others very pretty in the moonlight,
but it was poor work as far as these enraged vestals was concerned. If I'd been Hetty and had
got a strange box of candy through the mail the next week, directed in a disguised woman's
hand, I'd of rushed right off to the police with it, not waiting for any analysis. And she,
poor thing, would get so frightened at bad spots, with the fierce old horse bobbing about so
dangerous, that she just has to be held on. And once she wrenched her ankle against a horrid
old tree on the trail--she hadn't been able to resist a little one--and bit her under lip as
the spasm of pain passed over her refined features. But she was all right in a minute and begged
Mr. D. not to think of bathing it in cold water because it was nothing--nothing at all, really
now--and he would embarrass her frightfully if he said one more word about it. And Mr. D. again
remarked that she was feminine to her finger tips, a brave, game little woman, one of the gamest
he ever knew. And pretty soon--what was she thinking about now? Why, she was merely wondering
if horses think in the true sense of the word or only have animal instinct, as it is called.
And wasn't she a strange, puzzling creature to be thinking on deep subjects like that at such
a time! Yes, she had been called puzzling as a child, but she didn't like it one bit. She wanted
to be like other girls, if he knew what she meant. He seemed to.

"They took Hetty home first on account of her poor little ankle and sung 'Good Night, Ladies,'
at the gate. And so ended a day that was wreck and ruin for most of our sex there present.

"And to show you what a good, deep, scientific cause I had discovered, the next night at Hetty's
who shows up one by one but these four men about town, each with a pound of mixed from the
Bon Ton Handy Kitchen, and there they're all setting at the feet of Hetty, as it were, in her
new light summer gown with the blue bows, when Mr. D. blows in with a two-pound box and the
novel in which love conquered all. So excited she was when she tells me about it next day.
The luck of that girl! But after all it wasn't luck, because she'd laid her foundations the
day before, hadn't she? Always look a little bit back of anything that seems to be luck, say I.

"And Hetty with shining eyes entertained one and all with the wit and sparkle a woman can show
only when there's four or five men at her at once--it's the only time we ever rise to our best.
But she got a chance for a few words alone with Mr. D., who took his hat finally when he sees
the other four was going to set him out; enough words to confide to him how she loathed this
continual social racket to which she was constantly subjected, with never a let-up so one could
get to one's books and to one's real thoughts. But perhaps he would venture up again some time
next week or the week after--not getting coarse in her work, understand, even with him flopping
around there out on the bank--and he give her one long, meaning look and said why not to-morrow
night, and she carelessly said that would be charming, she was sure--she didn't think of any
engagement at this minute--and it was ever so nice of him to think of poor little me.

"Then she went back and gave the social evening of their life to them four boys that had stayed.
She said she couldn't thank them enough for coming this evening--which is probably the only
time she had told the truth in thirty-six hours--and they all made merry. Roth Hyde sang 'Sally
in Our Alley' so good on the high notes that the Duttons was all out in the hall listening;
and Riley Hardin singing 'Down, Diver, Down, 'Neath the Deep Blue Waves!' and Mac Gordon singing
his everlasting German songs in their native language, and Charlie Dickman singing a new sentimental
one called 'Ain't There at Least One Gentleman Here?' about a fair young lady dancer being
insulted in a gilded café in some large city; and one and all voted it was a jolly evening
and said how about coming back to-morrow night, but Hetty said no, it was her one evening for
study and she couldn't be bothered with them, which was a plain, downright so-and-so and well
she knew it, because that girl's study was over for good and all.

"Well, why string it out? I've give you the facts. And my lands! Will you look at that clock
now? Here's the morning gone and this room still looking like the inside of a sheep-herder's
wagon! Oh, yes, and when Hetty was up here this time that she wouldn't wear my riding pants
down, she says. 'Not only that, but I'm scrupulously careful in all ways. Why, I never even
allow dear Burchell to observe me in one of those lace boudoir caps that so many women cover
up their hair with when it's their best feature but they won't take time to do it.'

"Now was that spoken like a wise woman or like the two-horned Galumpsis Caladensis of East
India, whose habits are little known to man? My Lord! Won't I ever learn to stop? Where did
I put that dusting cloth?"

VI

COUSIN EGBERT INTERVENES

"It takes all kinds of foreigners to make a world," said Ma Pettengill--irrelevantly I thought,
because the remark seemed to be inspired merely by the announcement of Sandy Sawtelle that
the mule Jerry's hip had been laid open by a kick from the mule Alice, and that the bearer
of the news had found fourteen stitches needed to mend the rent.

Sandy brought his news to the owner of the Arrowhead as she relaxed in my company on the west
veranda of the ranch house and scented the golden dusk with burning tobacco of an inferior
but popular brand. I listened but idly to the minute details of the catastrophe, discovering
more entertainment in the solemn wake of light a dulled sun was leaving as it slipped over
the sagging rim of Arrowhead Pass. And yet, through my absorption with the shadows that now
played far off among the folded hills, there did come sharply the impression that this Sawtelle
person was dwelling too insistently upon the precise number of stitches required by the breach
in Jerry's hide.

"Fourteen--yes, ma'am; fourteen stitches. That there Alice mule sure needs handling. Fourteen
regular ones. I'd certainly show her where to head in at, like now she was my personal property.
Me, I'd abuse her shamefully. Only eleven I took last time in poor old Jerry; and here now
it's plumb fourteen--yes, ma'am; fourteen good ones. Say, you get fourteen of them stitches
in your hide, and I bet--thought, at first, I could make twelve do, but it takes full fourteen,
with old Jerry nearly tearing the chute down while I was taking these fourteen--"

I began to see numbers black against that glowing panorama in the west. A monstrous 14 repeated
itself stubbornly along the gorgeous reach of it.

"Yes, ma'am--fourteen; you can go out right now and count 'em yourself. And like mebbe I'll
have to go down to town to-morrow for some more of that King of Pain Liniment, on account of
Lazarus and Bryan getting good and lamed in this same mix-up, and me letting fall the last
bottle we had on the place and busting her wide open--"

"Don't you bother to bust any more!" broke in his employer in a tone that I found crisp with
warning. "There's a whole new case of King of Pain in the storeroom."

"Huh!" exclaimed the surgeon, ably conveying disappointment thereby. "And like now if I did
go down I could get the new parts for that there mower--"

"That's something for me to worry about exclusively. I'll begin when we got something to mow."
There was finished coldness in this.

"Huh!" The primitive vocable now conveyed a lively resentment, but there was the pleading of
a patient sufferer in what followed. "And like at the same time, having to make the trip anyway
for these here supplies and things, I could stop just a minute at Doc Martingale's and have
this old tooth of mine took out, that's been achin' like a knife stuck in me fur the last fourteen--well,
fur about a week now--achin' night and day--no sleep at all now fur seven, eight nights; so
painful I get regular delirious, let me tell you. And, of course, all wore out the way I am,
I won't be any good on the place till my agony's relieved. Why, what with me suffering so horrible,
I just wouldn't hardly know my own name sometimes if you was to come up and ask me!"

The woman's tone became more than ever repellent.

"Never you mind about not knowing your own name. I got it on the pay roll, and it'll still
be there to-morrow if you're helping Buck get out the rest of them fence posts like I told
you. If you happen to get stuck for your name when I ain't round, and the inquiring parties
won't wait, just ask the Chinaman; he never forgets anything he's learned once. Or I'll write
it out on a card, so you can show it to anybody who rides up and wants to know it in a hurry!"

"Huh!"

The powers of this brief utterance had not yet been exhausted. It now conveyed despair. With
bowed head the speaker dully turned and withdrew from our presence. As he went I distinctly
heard him mutter:

"Huh! Four-teen! Four-teen! And seven! And twenty-eight!"

"Say, there!" his callous employer called after him. "Why don't you get Boogles to embroider
that name of yours on the front of your shirt? He'd adore to do it. And you can still read,
can't you, in the midst of your agonies?"

There was no response to this taunt. The suffering one faded slowly down the path to the bunk
house and was lost in its blackness. A light shone out and presently came sombre chords from
a guitar, followed by the voice of Sandy in gloomy song: "There's a broken heart for every
light on Broadway--"

I was not a little pained to discover this unsuspected vein of cruelty in a woman I had long
admired. And the woman merely became irrelevant with her apothegm about foreigners. I ignored it.

"What about that sufferer down there in the bunk house?" I demanded. "Didn't you ever have
toothache?"

"No; neither did Sandy Sawtelle. He ain't a sufferer; he's just a liar."

"Why?"

"So I'll let him go to town and play the number of them stitches on the wheel. Sure! He'd run
a horse to death getting there, make for the back room of the Turf Club Saloon, where they
run games whenever the town ain't lidded too tight, and play roulette till either him or the
game had to close down. Yes, sir; he'd string his bets along on fourteen and seven and twenty-eight
and thirty-five, and if he didn't make a killing he'd believe all his life that the wheel was
crooked. Stitches in a mule's hide is his bug. He could stitch up any horse on the place and
never have the least hunch; but let it be a mule--Say! Down there right now he's thinking about
the thousand dollars or so I'm keeping him out of. I judge from his song that he'd figured
on a trip East to New York City or Denver. At that, I don't know as I blame him. Yes, sir;
that's what reminded me of foreigners and bazaars and vice, and so on--and poor Egbert Floud."

My hostess drew about her impressive shoulders a blanket of Indian weave that dulled the splendours
of the western sky, and rolled a slender cigarette from the tobacco and papers at her side.
By the ensuing flame of a match I saw that her eyes gleamed with the light of pure narration.

"Foreigners, bazaars, vice, and Egbert Floud?" I murmured, wishing these to be related more
plausibly one to another.

"I'm coming to it," said the lady; and, after two sustaining inhalations from the new cigarette,
forthwith she did:

       *       *       *       *       *

