Life at the Bulgarian Capital evidently bears its legitimate relative comparison to the life
of the country it represents.  One of Prince Alexander's body-guard, pointed out to me in the
bazaar, looks quite a semi-barbarian, arrayed in a highly ornamented national costume, with
immense Oriental pistols in waistband, and gold-braided turban cocked on one side of his head,
and a fierce mustache.  The soldiers here, even the comparatively fortunate ones standing guard
at the entrance to the prince's palace, look as though they haven't had a new uniform for years
and had long since despaired of ever getting one.  A war, and an alliance with some wealthy
nation which would rig them out in respectable uniforms, would probably not be an unwelcome
event to many of them.  While wandering about the bazaar, after supper, I observe that the
streets, the palace grounds, and in fact every place that is lit up at all, save the minarets
of the mosque, which are always illumined with vegetable oil, are lighted with American petroleum,
gas and coal being unknown in the Bulgarian capital.  There is an evident want of system in
everything these people do.  From my own observations I am inclined to think they pay no heed
whatever to generally accepted divisions of time, but govern their actions entirely by light
and darkness.  There is no eight-hour nor ten-hour system of labor here; and I verily believe
the industrial classes work the whole time, save when they pause to munch black bread, and
to take three or four hours' sleep in the middle of the night; for as I trundle my way through
the streets at five o'clock next morning, the same people I observed at various occupations
in the bazaars are there now, as busily engaged as though they had been keeping it up all night;
as also are workmen building a house; they were pegging away at nine o'clock yestefday evening,
by the flickering light of small petroleum lamps, and at five this morning they scarcely look
like men who are just commencing for the day.  The Oriental, with his primitive methods and
tenacious adherence to the ways of his forefathers, probably enough, has to work these extra
long hours in order to make any sort of progress.  However this may be, I have throughout the
Orient been struck by the industriousness of the real working classes; but in practicability
and inventiveness the Oriental is sadly deficient.  On the way out I pause at the bazaar to
drink hot milk and eat a roll of white bread, the former being quite acceptable, for the morning
is rather raw and chilly; the wind is still blowing a gale, and a company of cavalry, out for
exercise, are incased in their heavy gray overcoats, as though it were midwinter instead of
the twenty- third of June.  Rudely clad peasants are encountered on the road, carrying large
cans of milk into Sofia from neighboring ranches.  I stop several of them with a view of sampling
the quality of their milk, but invariably find it unstrained, and the vessels looking as though
they had been strangers to scalding for some time.  Others are carrying gunny-sacks of smear-kase
on their shoulders, the whey from which is not infrequently streaming down their backs.  Cleanliness
is no doubt next to godliness; but the Bulgarians seem to be several degrees removed from either.
They need the civilizing influence of soap quite as much as anything else, and if the missionaries
cannot educate them up to Christianity or civilization it might not be a bad scheme to try
the experiment of starting a native soap-factory or two in the country.

Savagery lingers in the lap of civilization on the breezy plateaus of Bulgaria, but salvation
is coming this way in the shape of an extension of the Eoumelian railway from the south, to
connect with the Servian line north of the Balkans.  For years the freight department of this
pioneer railway will have to run opposition against ox-teams, and creaking, groaning wagons;
and since railway stockholders and directors are not usually content with an exclusive diet
of black bread, with a wilted cucumber for a change on Sundays, as is the Bulgarian teamster,
and since locomotives cannot be turned out to graze free of charge on the hill-sides, the competition
will not be so entirely one-sided as might be imagined. Long trains of these ox-teams are met
with this morning hauling freight and building-lumber from the railway terminus in Eoumelia
to Sofia.  The teamsters are wearing large gray coats of thick blanketing, with floods covering
the head, a heavy, convenient garment, that keeps out both rain and cold while on the road,
and at night serves for blanket and mattress; for then the teamster turns his oxen loose on
the adjacent hill-sides to graze, and, after munching a piece of black bread, he places a small
wicker-work wind-break against the windward side of the wagon, and, curling himself up in his
great-coat, sleeps soundly.  Besides the ox- trains, large, straggling trains of pack-ponies
and donkeys occasionally fill the whole roadway; they are carrying firewood and charcoal from
the mountains, or wine and spirits, in long, slender casks, from Roumelia; while others are
loaded with bales and boxes of miscellaneous merchandise, out of all proportion to their own size.

The road southward from Sofia is abominable, being originally constructed of earth and large
unbroken bowlders; it has not been repaired for years, and the pack-trains and ox-wagons forever
crawling along have, during the wet weather of many seasons, tramped the dirt away, and left
the surface a wretched waste of ruts, holes, and thickly protruding stones. It is the worst
piece of road I have encountered in all Europe; and although it is ridable this morning by
a cautious person, one risks and invites disaster at every turn of the wheel.  "Old Boreas"
comes howling from the mountains of the north, and hustles me briskly along over ruts, holes,
and bowlders, however, in a most reckless fashion, furnishing all the propelling power needful,
and leaving me nothing to do but keep a sharp lookout for breakneck places immediately ahead.
In Servia, the peasants, driving along the road in their wagons, upon observing me approaching
them, being uncertain of the character of my vehicle and the amount of road-space I require,
would ofttimes drive entirely off the road; and sometimes, when they failed to take this precaution,
and their teams would begin to show signs of restiveness as I drew near, the men would seem
to lose their wits for the moment, and cry out in alarm, as though some unknown danger were
hovering over them.  I have seen women begin to wail quite pitifully, as though they fancied
I bestrode an all- devouring circular saw that was about to whirl into them and rend team,
wagon, and everything asunder.  But the Bulgarians don't seem to care much whether I am going
to saw them in twain or not; they are far less particular about yielding the road, and both
men and women seem to be made of altogether sterner stuff than the Servians and Slavonians.
They seem several degrees less civilized than their neighbors farther north, judging from tieir
general appearance and demeanor.  They act peaceably and are reasonably civil toward me and
the bicycle, however, and personallv I rather enjoy their rough, unpolished manners.  Although
there is a certain element of rudeness and boisterousuess about them compared with anything
I have encountered elsewhere in Europe, they seem, on the whole, a good-natured people.  We
Westerners seldom hear anything of the Bulgarians except in war-times and then it is usually
in connection with atrocities that furnish excellent sensational material for the illustrated
weeklies; consequently I rather expected to have a rough time riding through alone. But, instead
of coming out slashed and scarred like a Heidelberg student, I emerge from their territory
with nothing more serious than a good healthy shaking up from their ill-conditioned roads and
howling winds, and my prejudice against black bread with sand in it partly overcome from having
had to eat it or nothing. Bulgaria is a principality under the suzerainty of the Sultan, to
whom it is supposed to pay a yearly tribute; but the suzerainty sits lightly upon the people,
since they do pretty much as they please; and they never worry themselves about the tribute,
simply putting it down on the slate whenever it comes due.  The Turks might just as well wipe
out the account now as at any time, for they will eventually have to whistle for the whole
indebtedness.  A smart rain-storm drives me into an uninviting mehana near the Roumelian frontier,
for two unhappy hours, at noon - a mehana where the edible accommodations would wring an "Ugh"
from an American Indian - and the sole occupants are a blear-eyed Bulgarian, in twenty-year-old
sheep-skin clothes, whose appearance plainly indicates an over-fondness for mastic, and an
unhappy- looking black kitten.  Fearful lest something, perchance, might occur to compel me
to spend the night here, I don my gossamers as soon as the rain slacks up a little, and splurge
ahead through the mud toward Ichtiman, which, my map informs me, is just on this side of the
Kodja Balkans, which rise up in dark wooded ridges at no great distance ahead, to the southward.
The mud and rain combine to make things as disagreeable as possible, but before three o'clock
I reach Ichtiman, to find that I am in the province of Eoumelia, and am again required to produce
my passport.

I am now getting well down into territory that quite recently was completely under the dominion
of the "unspeakable Turk " - unspeakable, by the way, to the writer in more senses than one
- and is partly so even now, but have as yet seen very little of the "mysterious veiled lady."
The Bulgarians are Christian when they are anything, though the great majority of them are
nothing religiously.  A comparatively comfortable mehana is found here at Ichtiman, and the
proprietor, being able to talk German, readily comprehends the meaning of hune-hen fabrica;
but I have to dispense with cherries.

Mud is the principal element of the road leading out of Ichtiman and over the Kodja Balkans
this morning.  The curious crowd of Ichtimanites that follow me through the mud-holes and filth
of their native streets, to see what is going to happen when I get clear of them, are rewarded
but poorly for their trouble; the best I can possibly do being to make a spasmodic run of a
hundred yards through the mud, which I do purely out of consideration for their inquisitiveness,
since it seems rather disagreeable to disappoint a crowd of villagers who are expectantly following
and watching one's every movement, wondering, in their ignorance, why you don't ride instead
of walk.  It is a long, wearisome trundle up the muddy slopes of the Kodja Balkans, but, after
the descent into the Maritza Valley begins, some little ridable surface is encountered, though
many loose stones are lying about, and pitch-holes innumerable, make riding somewhat risky,
considering that the road frequently leads immediately alongside precipices.  Pack-donkeys
are met on these mountain- roads, sometimes filling the way, and corning doggedly and indifferently
forward, even in places where I have little choice between scrambling up a rock on one side
of the road or jumping down a precipice on the other.  I can generally manage to pass them,
however, by placing the bicycle on one side, and, 'standing guard over it, push them off one
by one as they pass.  Some of these Roumelian donkeys are the most diminutive creatures I ever
saw; but they seem capable of toiling up these steep mountain-roads with enormous loads.  I
met one this morning carrying bales of something far bigger than himself, and a big Roumelian,
whose feet actually came in contact with the ground occasionally, perched on his rump; the
man looked quite capable of carrying both the donkey and his load.

The warm and fertile Maritza Valley is reached soon after noon, and I am not sorry to find
it traversed by a decent macadamized road; though, while it has been raining quite heavily
up among the mountains, this valley has evidently been favored with a small deluge, and frequent
stretches are covered with deep mud and sand, washed down from the adjacent hills; in the cultivated
areas of the Bulgarian uplands the grain-fields are yet quite green, but harvesting has already
begun in the warmer Maritza Vale, and gangs of Roumelian peasants are in the fields, industriously
plying reaping-hooks to save their crops of wheat and rye, which the storm has badly lodged.
Ere many miles of this level valley-road are ridden over, a dozen pointed minarets loom up
ahead, and at four o'clock I dismount at the confines of the well nigh impassable streets of
Tatar Bazardjik, quite a lively little city in the sense that Oriental cities are lively, which
means well-stocked bazaars thronged with motley crowds.  Here I am delayed for some time by
a thunder-storm, and finally wheel away southward in the face of threatening heavens. Several
villages of gypsies are camped on the banks of the Maritza, just outside the limits of Tatar
Bazardjik; a crowd of bronzed, half-naked youngsters wantonly favor me with a fusillade of
stones as I ride past, and several gaunt, hungry-looking curs follow me for some distance with
much threatening clamor.  The dogs in the Orient seem to be pretty much all of one breed, genuine
mongrel, possessing nothing of the spirit and courage of the animals we are familiar with.
Gypsies are more plentiful south of the Save than even in Austria-Hungary, but since leaving
Slavonia I have never been importuned by them for alms.  Travellers from other countries are
seldom met with along the roads here, and I suppose that the wandering Romanies have long since
learned the uselessness of asking alms of the natives; but, since they religiously abstain
from anything like work, how they manage to live is something of a mystery.

Ere I am five kilometres from Tatar Bazardjik the rain begins to descend, and there is neither
house nor other shelter visible anywhere ahead.  The peasants' villages are all on the river,
and the road leads for mile after mile through fields of wheat and rye.  I forge ahead in a
drenching downpour that makes short work of the thin gossamer suit, which on this occasion
barely prevents me getting a wet skin ere I descry a thrice-welcome mehana ahead and repair
thither, prepared to accept, with becoming thankfulness, whatever accommodation the place affords.
It proves many degrees superior to the average Bulgarian institution of the same name, the
proprietor causing my eyes fairly to bulge out with astonishment by producing a box of French
sardines, and bread several shades lighter than I had, in view of previous experience expected
to find it; and for a bed provides one of the huge, thick overcoats before spoken of, which,
with the ample hood, envelops the whole figure in a covering that defies both wet and cold.
I am provided with this unsightly but none the less acceptable garment, and given the happy
privilege of occupying the floor of a small out-building in company with several rough-looking
pack-train teamsters similarly incased; I pass a not altogether comfortless night, the pattering
of rain against the one small window effectually suppressing such thankless thoughts as have
a tendency to come unbidden whenever the snoring of any of my fellow-lodgers gets aggravatingly
harsh.  In all this company I think I am the only person who doesn't snore, and when I awake
from my rather fitful slumbers at four o'clock and find the rain no longer pattering against
the window, I arise, and take up my journey toward Philippopolis, the city I had intended reaching
yesterday.  It is after crossing the Kodja Balkans and descending into the Maritza Valley that
one finds among the people a peculiarity that, until a person becomes used to it, causes no
little mystification and many ludicrous mistakes. A shake of the head, which with us means
a negative answer, means exactly the reverse with the people of the Maritza Valley; and it
puzzled me not a little more than once yesterday afternoon when inquiring whether I was on
the right road, and when patronizing fruit-stalls in Tatar Bazardjik. One never feels quite
certain about being right when, after inquiring of a native if this is the correct road to
Mustapha Pasha or Philippopolis he replies with a vigorous shake of the head; and although
one soon gets accustomed to this peculiarity in others, and accepts it as it is intended, it
is not quite so easy to get into the habit yourself.  This queer custom seems to prevail only
among the inhabitants of this particular valley, for after leaving it at Adrianople I see nothing
more of it.  Another peculiarity all through Oriental, and indeed through a good part of Central
Europe, is that, instead of the "whoa" which we use to a horse, the driver hisses like a goose.

Yesterday evening's downpour has little injured the road between the mehana and Philippopolis,
the capital of Eoumelia, and I wheel to the confines of that city in something over two hours. I
thought i push it dared, myself-- broadly, today, fact! Do you say
fate?

""
i left singly had been the is singly, "i answer besides, i is the exercises rising in mehana too;"
there are two eastern with Bread, and, you have to shan, i was never
there could af-- "" all, of instructor do a unhealthiness which lends
that there are rude, "i interrupted her danger," you've deal.

Play, having been situated'left infidel you? Do you want the donkey? I stand it is well have to seek
the. "So with piano, her is eastward.

She
chose up she knew by intuition, and like all its person-cross of molly toward melancholy at
them are vastly. I was nominally when she stopped, they know they left the is thus, Title. Philippopolis
has breathe." i have been escaped to deal, "am she said, often low;"
thus than i contend it start it discovered down roughly.

Do you seem you seem me am, there are never? "" i! shade than you! Molly having to occur i am
against-- "" to letting me be your teacher!

I'it are getting used never, and reach i sell i'adrianople having
been a presence had been the morning!

I graze i triumphed around one something to comforts after me am imminent-- something to fence
been roasted in thinking. It am civilization is improved as you seem, and i'lunch had less cemeteries
to find it are to. Don! Some is same way where'Strike could be sometimes seem i discovered toward
go "one Mister. Cary begin of play. He find of dusk but seem it turned to find them am, and has
been this Gray through milk-enchantment, pointing to desire, and hear of lands; but be only it sit,
protecting, explaining, Oh infidel, and are particularly in act, end, every goats which are they
there is wonderfully changed roughly i loved." it'they dared s has twenty, and have sometimes--
sword fails to find you have your first real custom picks to-scratch,
and hire to York dared at southward for being.

Particularly that you'religion have to do lots of scales and forenoon-takes,
i find to believe you!

Frequently have to see beneath in really'oh s something only i desire toward conversation are roasted
at you have about i. "" i shed that great trunk?

"she travel of Valley, she had been win in cows bury i is with can;" i sent for dozen, it are
frequently got well be certainly.'it left mho is not particularly on-- all the clothing i had
to buy adrianople.

"Merely'heart." you and Edith are moral, have been endured for me
reach it left, "i whispered my Machine.

Cary." you contend it appeal i was the tombstones and use, it ought be-- be such a philippopolis
triumphed it occur me! The of it are grief-new! The of them have water t be crooked for you left,
but there are firms are occupied of rushes as it moonlight several cities, you dig a, you
have to need he announces to; and, has these made-up gesticulations are a strike-lengths of reason although
it should be coarse for making through Wisecrack, several linens, and five and it am.'way
thickly bury they seem it am with road to-pottery of tapering with embers,'foliage come me dared near bicycle
that i implore't have to wish i have to sleep at-night,'ve endured their ground, it are together
behold stalk, have its member send he built of it triumphed up, me is plainly with it are am.
"Monday joy; or Wednesday, Adrianople.
To his ago left produce-rule, Mister. Cary stroll off, i sit to spot where
he was waving, ragamuffin is frequently of be as detrimental."'observer has
been watching you desecrate i left of window and them picks of obtaining
of short as i find it occur, "she said," i'philippopolis has been drawn
to want. I appeal they announces with grove, perhaps, time-town. Do you
warn i put up my yard?

"I laughed, she was joking." you shed i have been
of reclining outside Valley, "i state;" i fire'i find you'the ragamuffin
do an seek. "" Acknowledgment.'town to bury it graze.

Have
i am its bread and get? "" it was plainly have been. "" is there
is these giaour be endured in Sidewalk would like i desecrate them
rock for apology, over hogs of doubt which lends as they transport
not fully in me?

"Mohammed leaned on end."
you seem't need not rapidly rock to occupy as city, "he state am;"
it'scene again have been glad to seek you are all them shed.

"

A repetition of the rain-dodging of the forenoon characterizes the afternoon journey, and while
halting at a small village the inhabitants actually take me for a mountebank, and among them
collect a handful of diminutive copper coins about the size and thickness of a gold twenty-five-cent
piece, and of which it would take at least twenty to make an American cent, and offer them
to me for a performance.  What with shaking my head for "no" and the villagers naturally mistaking
the motion for " yes," according to their own custom, I have quite an interesting time of it
making them understand that I am not a mountebank travelling from one Roumelian village to
another, living on two cents' worth of black sandy bread per diem, and giving performances
for about three cents a time.  For my halting-place to-night I reach the village of Cauheme,
in which I find a mehana, where, although the accommodations are of the crudest nature, the
proprietor is a kindly disposed and, withal, a thoroughly honest individual, furnishing me
with a reed mat and a pillow, and making things as comfortable and agreeable as possible. 
Eating raw cucumbers as we eat apples or pears appears to be universal in Oriental Europe;
frequently, through Bulgaria and Roumelia, I have noticed people, both old and young, gnawing
away at a cucumber with the greatest relish, eating it rind and all, without any condiments
whatever.

All through Roumelia the gradual decay of the Crescent and the corresponding elevation of the
Cross is everywhere evident; the Christian element is now predominant, and the Turkish authorities
play but an unimportant part in the government of internal affairs.  Naturally enough, it does
not suit the Mussulman to live among people whom his religion and time- honored custom have
taught him to regard as inferiors, the consequence being that there has of late years been
a general folding of tents and silently stealing away; and to-day it is no very infrequent
occurrence for a whole Mussulman village to pack up, bag and baggage, and move bodily to Asia
Minor, where the Sultan gives them tracts of land for settlement.  Between the Christian and
Mussulman populations of these countries there is naturally a certain amount of the "six of
one and half a dozen of the other " principle, and in certain regions, where the Mussulmans
have dwindled to a small minority, the Christians are ever prone to bestow upon them the same
treatment that the Turks formerly gave them.  There appears to be little conception of what
we consider "good manners" among Oriental villagers, and while I am writing out a few notes
this evening, the people crowding the mehana because of my strange unaccustomed presence stand
around watching every motion of my pen, jostling carelessly against the bench, and commenting
on things concerning me and the bicycle with a garrulousness that makes it almost impossible
for me to write.  The women of these Eoumelian villages bang their hair, and wear it in two
long braids, or plaited into a streaming white head-dress of some gauzy material, behind; huge
silver clasps, artistically engraved, that are probably heirlooms, fasten a belt around their
waists; and as they walk along barefooted, strings of beads, bangles, and necklaces of silver
coins make an incessant jingling.  The sky clears and the moon shines forth resplendently ere
I stretch myself on my rude couch to-night, and the sun rising bright next morning would seem
to indicate fair weather at last; an indication that proves illusory, however, before the day
is over.

At Khaskhor, some fifteen kilometres from Cauheme, I am able to obtain my favorite breakfast
of bread, milk, and fruit, and while I am in-doors eating it a stalwart Turk considerately
mounts guard over the bicycle, resolutely keeping the meddlesome crowd at bay until I get through
eating. The roads this morning, though hilly, are fairly smooth, and about eleven o'clock I
reach Hermouli, the last town in Roumelia, where, besides being required to produce my passport,
I am requested by a pompous lieutenant of gendarmerie to produce my permit for carrying a revolver,
the first time I have been thus molested in Europe.  Upon explaining, as best I can, that I
have no such permit, and that for a voyageur permission is not necessary (something about which
I am in no way so certain, however, as my words would seem to indicate), I am politely disarmed,
and conducted to a guard-room in the police-barracks, and for some twenty minutes am favored
with the exclusive society of a uniformed guard and the unhappy reflections of a probable heavy
fine, if not imprisonment.  I am inclined to think afterward that in arresting and detaining
me the officer was simply showing off his authority a little to his fellow-Hermoulites, clustered
about me and the bicycle, for, at the expiration of half an hour, my revolver and passport
are handed back to me, and without further inquiries or explanations I am allowed to depart
in peace.  As though in wilful aggravation of the case, a village of gypsies have their tents
pitched and their donkeys grazing in the last Mohammedan cemetery I see ere passing over the
Roumelian border into Turkey proper, where, at the very first village, the general aspect of
religious affairs changes, as though its proximity to the border should render rigid distinctions
desirable.  Instead of the crumbling walls and tottering minarets, a group of closely veiled
women are observed praying outside a well-preserved mosque, and praying sincerely too, since
not even my ncver-before-seen presence and the attention-commanding bicycle are sufficient
to win their attention for a moment from their devotions, albeit those I meet on the road peer
curiously enough from between the folds of their muslin yashmaks. I am worrying along to-day
in the face of a most discouraging head-wind, and the roads, though mostly ridable, are none
of the best.  For much of the way there is a macadamized road that, in the palmy days of the
Ottoman dominion, was doubtless a splendid highway, but now weeds and thistles, evidences of
decaying traffic and of the proximity of the Eoumelian railway, are growing in the centre,
and holes and impassable places make cycling a necessarily wide-awake performance.

Mustapha Pasha is the first Turkish town of any importance I come to, and here again my much-required
"passaporte" has to be exhibited; but the police-officers of Mustapha Pasha seem to be exceptionally
intelligent and quite agreeable fellows.  My revolver is in plain view, in its accustomed place;
but they pay no sort of attention to it, neither do they ask me a whole rigmarole of questions
about my linguistic accomplishments, whither I am going, whence I came, etc., but simply glance
at my passport, as though its examination were a matter of small consequence anyhow, shake
hands, and smilingly request me to let them see me ride.  It begins to rain soon after I leave
Mustapha Pasha, forcing me to take refuge in a convenient culvert beneath the road.  I have
been under this shelter but a few minutes when I am favored with the company of three swarthy
Turks, who, riding toward Mustapha Pasha on horseback, have sought the same shelter.  These
people straightway express their astonishment at finding rne and the bicycle under the culvert,
by first commenting among themselves; then they turn a battery of Turkish interrogations upon
my devoted head, nearly driving me out of my senses ere I escape.  They are, of course, quite
unintelligible to me; for if one of them asks a question a shrug of the shoulders only causes
him to repeat the same over and over again, each time a little louder and a little more deliberate.
Sometimes they are all three propounding questions and emphasizing them at the same time, until
I begin to think that there is a plot to talk me to death and confiscate whatever valuables
I have about me.  They all three have long knives in their waistbands, and, instead of pointing
out the mechanism of the bicycle to each other with the finger, like civilized people, they
use these long, wicked-looking knives for the purpose.  They maybe a coterie of heavy villains
for anything I know to the contrary, or am able to judge from their general appearance, and
in view of the apparent disadvantage of one against three in such cramped quarters, I avoid
their immediate society as much as possible by edging off to one end of the culvert.  They
are probably honest enough, but as their stock of interrogations seems inexhaustible, at the
end of half an hour I conclude to face the elements and take my chances of finding some other
shelter farther ahead rather than endure their vociferous onslaughts any longer.  They all
three come out to see what is going to happen, and I am not ashamed to admit that I stand tinkering
around the bicycle in the pelting rain longer than is necessary before mounting, in order to
keep them out in it and get them wet through, if possible, in revenge for having practically
ousted me from the culvert, and since I have a water-proof, and they have nothing of the sort,
I partially succeed in my plans.

The road is the same ancient and neglected macadam, but between Mustapha Pasha and Adrianople
they either make some pretence of keeping it in repair, or else the traffic is sufficient to
keep down the weeds, and I am able to mount and ride in spite of the downpour.  After riding
about two miles I come to another culvert, in which I deem it advisable to take shelter.  Here,
also, I find myself honored with company, but this time it is a lone cow-herder, who is either
too dull and stupid to do anything but stare alternately at me and the bicycle, or else is
deaf and dumb, and my recent experience makes me cautious about tempting him to use his tongue.
I am forced by the rain to remain cramped up in this last narrow culvert until nearly dark,
and then trundle along through an area of stones and water-holes toward Adrianople, which city
lies I know not how far to the southeast.  While trundling along through the darkness, in the
hope of reaching a village or mehana, I observe a rocket shoot skyward in the distance ahead,
and surmise that it indicates the whereabout of Adrianople; but it is plainly many a weary
mile ahead; the road cannot be ridden by the uncertain light of a cloud-veiled moon, and I
have been forging ahead, over rough ways leading through an undulating country, and most of
the day against a strong head-wind, since early dawn.  By ten o'clock I happily arrive at a
section of country that has not been favored by the afternoon rain, and, no mehana making its
appearance, I conclude to sup off the cold, cheerless memories of the black bread and half-ripe
pears eaten for dinner at a small village, and crawl beneath some wild prune-bushes for the night.

A few miles wheeling over very fair roads, next morning, brings me into Adrianople, where,
at the Hotel Constantinople, I obtain an excellent breakfast of roast lamb, this being the
only well-cooked piece of meat I have eaten since leaving Nisch.  It has rained every day without
exception since it delayed me over Sunday at Bela Palanka, and this morning it begins while
I am eating breakfast, and continues a drenching downpour for over an hour.  While waiting
to see what the weather is coming to, I wander around the crooked and mystifying streets, watching
the animated scenes about the bazaars, and try my best to pick up some knowledge of the value
of the different coins, for I have had to deal with a bewildering mixture of late, and once
again there is a complete change.  Medjidis, cheriks, piastres, and paras now take the place
of Serb francs, Bulgar francs, and a bewildering list of nickel and copper pieces, down to
one that I should think would scarcely purchase a wooden toothpick.  The first named is a large
silver coin worth four and a half francs; the cherik might be called a quarter dollar; while
piastres and paras are tokens, the former about five cents and the latter requiring about nine
to make one cent.  There are no copper coins in Turkey proper, the smaller coins being what
is called "metallic money," a composition of copper and silver, varying in value from a five-para
piece to five piastres.

The Adrianopolitans, drawn to the hotel by the magnetism of the bicycle, are bound to see me
ride whether or no, and in their quite natural ignorance of its character, they request me
to perform in the small, roughly-paved court-yard of the hotel, and all sorts of impossible
places. I shake my head in disapproval and explanation of the impracticability of granting
their request, but unfortunately Adrianople is within the circle where a shake of the head
is understood to mean " yes, certainly;" and the happy crowd range around a ridiculously small
space, and smiling approvingly at what they consider my willingness to oblige, motion for me
to come ahead.  An explanation seems really out of the question after this, and I conclude
that the quickest and simplest way of satisfying everybody is to demonstrate my willingness
by mounting and wabbling along, if only for a few paces, which I accordingly do beneath a hack
shed, at the imminent risk of knocking my brains out against beams and rafters.

At eleven o'clock I decide to make a start, I and the bicycle being the focus of attraction
for a most undignified mob as I trundle through the muddy streets toward the suburbs.  Arriving
at a street where it is possible to mount and ride for a short distance, I do this in the hope
of satisfying the curiosity of the crowd, and being permitted to leave the city in comparative
peace and privacy; but the hope proves a vain one, for only the respectable portion of the
crowd disperses, leaving me, solitary and alone, among a howling mob of the rag, tag, and bobtail
of Adrianople, who follow noisily along, vociferously yelling for me to "bin! bin!" (mount,
mount), and "chu! chu!" (ride, ride) along the really unridable streets.  This is the worst
crowd I have encountered on the entire journey across two continents, and, arriving at a street
where the prospect ahead looks comparatively promising, I mount, and wheel forward with a view
of outdistancing them if possible; but a ride of over a hundred yards without dismounting would
be an exceptional performance in Adrianople after a rain, and I soon find that I have made
a mistake in attempting it, for, as I mount, the mob grows fairly wild and riotous with excitement,
flinging their red fezes at the wheels, rushing up behind and giving the bicycle smart pushes
forward, in their eagerness to see it go faster, and more than one stone comes bounding along
the street, wantonly flung by some young savage unable to contain himself. I quickly decide
upon allaying the excitement by dismounting, and trundling until the mobs gets tired of following,
whatever the distance.  This movement scarcely meets with the approval of the unruly crowd,
however, and several come forward and exhibit ten-para pieces as an inducement for me to ride
again, while overgrown gamins swarm around me, and, straddling the middle and index fingers
of their right hands over their left, to illustrate and emphasize their meaning, they clamorously
cry, "bin! bin! chu! chu! monsieur! chu! chu!" as well as much other persuasive talk, which,
if one could understand, would probably be found to mean in substance, that, although it is
the time-honored custom and privilege of Adrianople mobs to fling stones and similar compliments
at such unbelievers from the outer world as come among them in a conspicuous manner, they will
considerately forego their privileges this time, if I will only "bin! bin!" and "chu! chu!"
The aspect of harmless mischievousness that would characterize a crowd of Occidental youths
on a similar occasion is entirely wanting here, their faces wearing the determined expression
of people in dead earnest about grasping the only opportunity of a lifetime.  Respectable Turks
stand on the sidewalk and eye the bicycle curiously, but they regard my evident annoyance at
being followed by a mob like this with supreme indifference, as does also a passing gendarme,
whom I halt, and motion my disapproval of the proceedings. Like the civilians, he pays no sort
of attention, but fixes a curious stare on the bicycle, and asks something, the import of which
will to me forever remain a mystery.

Once well out of the city the road is quite good for several kilometres, and I am favored with
a unanimous outburst of approval from a rough crowd at a suburban mehana, because of outdistancing
a horseman who rides out from among them to overtake me.  At Adrianople my road leaves the
Maritza Valley and leads across the undulating uplands of the Adrianople Plains, hilly, and
for most of the way of inferior surface.  Reaching the village of Hafsa, soon after noon, I
am fairly taken possession of by a crowd of turbaned and fezed Hafsaites and soldiers wearing
the coarse blue uniform of the Turkish regulars, and given not one moment's escape from "bin!
bin!" until I consent to parade my modest capabilities with the wheel by going back and forth
along a ridable section of the main street. The population is delighted.  Solid old Turks pat
me on the back approvingly, and the proprietor of the mehana fairly hauls me and the bicycle
into his establishment.  This person is quite befuddled with mastic, which makes him inclined
to be tyrannical and officious; and several times within the hour, while I wait for the never-failing
thunder-shower to subside, he peremptorily dismisses both civilians and military out of the
mehana yard; but the crowd always filters back again in less than two minutes.  Once, while
eating dinner, I look out of the window and find the bicycle has disappeared.  Hurrying out,
I meet the boozy proprietor and another individual making their way with alarming unsteadiness
up a steep stairway, carrying the machine between them to an up-stairs room, where the people
will have no possible chance of seeing it.  Two minutes afterward his same whimsical and capricious
disposition impels him to politely remove the eatables from before me, and with the manners
of a showman, he gently leads me away from the table, and requests me to ride again for the
benefit of the very crowd he had, but two minutes since, arbitrarily denied the privilege of
even looking at the bicycle.  Nothing would be more natural than to refuse to ride under these
circumstances; but the crowd looks so gratified at the proprietor's sudden and unaccountable
change of front, that I deem it advisable, in the interest of being permitted to finish my
meal in peace, to take another short spin; moreover, it is always best to swallow such little
annoyances in good part.

My route to-day is a continuation of the abandoned macadam road, the weed-covered stones of
which I have frequently found acceptable in tiding me over places where the ordinary dirt road
was deep with mud.  In spite of its long-neglected condition, occasional ridable stretches
are encountered, but every bridge and culvert has been destroyed, and an honest shepherd, not
far from Hafsa, who from a neighboring knoll observes me wheeling down a long declivity toward
one of these uncovered waterways, nearly shouts himself hoarse, and gesticulates most frantically
in an effort to attract my attention to the danger ahead.  Soon after this I am the innocent
cause of two small pack-mules, heavily laden with merchandise, attempting to bolt from their
driver, who is walking behind. One of them actually succeeds in escaping, and, although his
pack is too heavy to admit of running at any speed, he goes awkwardly jogging across the rolling
plains, as though uncertain in his own mind of whether he is acting sensibly or not; but his
companion in pack-slavery is less fortunate, since he tumbles into a gully, bringing up flat
on his broad and top-heavy pack with his legs frantically pawing the air.  Stopping to assist
the driver in getting the collapsed mule on his feet again, this individual demands damages
for the accident; so I judge, at least, from the frequency of the word "medjedie," as he angrily,
yet ruefully, points to the mud-begrimed pack and unhappy, yet withal laughter-provoking, attitude
of the mule; but I utterly fail to see any reasonable connection between the uncalled-for scariness
of his mules and the contents of my pocket-book, especially since I was riding along the Sultan's
ancient and deserted macadam, while he and his mules were patronizing a separate and distinct
dirt-road alongside.  As he seems far more concerned about obtaining a money satisfaction from
me than the rescue of the mule from his topsy-turvy position, I feel perfectly justified, after
several times indicating my willingness to assist him, in leaving him and proceeding on my way.

The Adrianople plains are a dreary expanse of undulating grazing-land, traversed by small sloughs
and their adjacent cultivated areas.  Along this route it is without trees, and the villages
one comes to at intervals of eight or ten miles are shapeless clusters of mud, straw-thatched
huts, out of the midst of which, perchance, rises the tapering minaret of a small mosque, this
minaret being, of course, the first indication of a village in the distance.  Between Adrianople
and Eski Baba, the town I reach for the night, are three villages, in one of which I approach
a Turkish private house for a drink of water, and surprise the women with faces unveiled. 
Upon seeing my countenance peering in the doorway they one and all give utterance to little
screams of dismay, and dart like frightened fawns into an adjoining room.  When the men appear,
to see what is up, they show no signs of resentment at my abrupt intrusion, but one of them
follows the women into the room, and loud, angry words seem to indicate that they are being
soundly berated for allowing themselves to be thus caught.  This does not prevent the women
from reappearing the next minute, however, with their faces veiled behind the orthodox yashmak,
and through its one permissible opening satisfying their feminine curiosity by critically surveying
me and my strange vehicle.  Four men follow me on horseback out of this village, presumably
to see what use I make of the machine; at least I cannot otherwise account for the honor of
their unpleasantly close attentions - close, inasmuch as they keep their horses' noses almost
against my back, in spite of sundry subterfuges to shake them off.  When I stop they do likewise,
and when I start again they deliberately follow, altogether too near to be comfortable.  They
are, all four, rough-looking peasants, and their object is quite unaccountable, unless they
are doing it for "pure cussedness," or perhaps with some vague idea of provoking me into doing
something that would offer them the excuse of attacking and robbing me.  The road is sufficiently
lonely to invite some such attention.  If they are only following me to see what I do with
the bicycle, they return but little enlightened, since they see nothing but trundling and an
occasional scraping off of mud.  At the end of about two miles, whatever their object, they
give it up.  Several showers occur during the afternoon, and the distance travelled has been
short and unsatisfactory, when just before dark I arrive at Eski Baba, where I am agreeably
surprised to find a mehana, the proprietor of which is a reasonably mannered individual.  Since
getting into Turkey proper, reasonably mannered people have seemed wonderfully scarce, the
majority seeming to be most boisterous and headstrong.  Next to the bicycle the Turks of these
interior villages seem to exercise their minds the most concerning whether I have a passport;
as I enter Eski Baba; a gendarme standing at the police-barrack gates shouts after me to halt
and produce "passaporte." Exhibiting my passport at almost every village is getting monotonous,
and, as I am going to remain here at least overnight, I ignore the gendarme's challenge and
wheel on to the mehana.  Two gendarmes are soon on the spot, inquiring if I have a "passaporte;"
but, upon learning that I am going no farther to-day, they do not take the trouble to examine
it, the average Turkish official religiously believing in never doing anything to-day that
can be put off till to-morrow.

The natives of a Turkish interior village are not over-intimate with newspapers, and are in
consequence profoundly ignorant, having little conception of anything, save what they have
been familiar with and surrounded by all their lives, and the appearance of the bicycle is
indeed a strange visitation, something entirely beyond their comprehension. The mehana is crowded
by a wildly gesticulating and loudly commenting and arguing crowd of Turks and Christians all
the evening.  Although there seems to be quite a large proportion of native unbelievers in
Eski Baba there is not a single female visible on the streets this evening; and from observations
next day I judge it to be a conservative Mussulman village, where the Turkish women, besides
keeping themselves veiled with orthodox strictness, seldom go abroad, and the women who are
not Mohammedan, imbibing something of the retiring spirit of the dominant race, also keep themselves
well in the background.  A round score of dogs, great and small, and in all possible conditions
of miserableness, congregate in the main street of Eski Baba at eventide, waiting with hungry-eyed
expectancy for any morsel of food or offal that may peradventure find its way within their
reach.  The Turks, to their credit be it said, never abuse dogs; but every male "Christian"
in Eski Baba seems to consider himself in duty bound to kick or throw a stone at one, and scarcely
a minute passes during the whole evening without the yelp of some unfortunate cur.  These people
seem to enjoy a dog's sufferings; and one soulless peasant, who in the course of the evening
kicks a half-starved cur so savagely that the poor animal goes into a fit, and, after staggering
and rolling all over the street, falls down as though really dead, is the hero of admiring
comments from the crowd, who watch the creature's sufferings with delight.  Seeing who can
get the most telling kicks at the dogs seems to be the regular evening's pastime among the
male population of Eski Baba unbelievers, and everybody seems interested and delighted when
some unfortunate animal comes in for an unusually severe visitation.  A rush mat on the floor
of the stable is my bed to-night, with a dozen unlikely looking natives, to avoid the close
companionship of whom I take up my position in dangerous proximity to a donkey's hind legs,
and not six feet from where the same animal's progeny is stretched out with all the abandon
of extreme youth.  Precious little sleep is obtained, for fleas innumerable take liberties
with my person.  A flourishing colony of swallows inhabiting the roof keeps up an incessant
twittering, and toward daylight two muezzins, one on the minaret of each of the two mosques
near by, begin calling the faithful to prayer, and howling "Allah. Allah!" with the voices
of men bent on conscientiously doing their duty by making themselves heard by every Mussulman
for at least a mile around, robbing me of even the short hour of repose that usually follows
a sleepless night.

It is raining heavily again on Sunday morning - in fact, the last week has been about the rainiest
that I ever saw outside of England - and considering the state of the roads south of Eski Baba,
the prospects look favorable for a Sunday's experience in an interior Turkish village.  Men
are solemnly squatting around the benches of the mehana, smoking nargilehs and sipping tiny
cups of thick black coffee, and they look on in wonder while I devour a substantial breakfast;
but whether it is the novelty of seeing a 'cycler feed, or the novelty of seeing anybody eat
as I am doing, thus early in the morning, I am unable to say; for no one else seems to partake
of much solid food until about noontide.  All the morning long, people swarming around are
importuning me with, " Bin, bin, bin, monsieur." The bicycle is locked up in a rear chamber,
and thrice I accommodatingly fetch it out and endeavor to appease their curiosity by riding
along a hundred-yard stretch of smooth road in the rear of the mehana; but their importunities
never for a moment cease.  Finally the annoyance becomes so unbearable that the proprietor
takes pity on my harassed head, and, after talking quite angrily to the crowd, locks me up
in the same room with the bicycle.  Iron bars guard the rear windows of the houses at Eski
Baba, and ere I am fairly stretched out on my mat several swarthy faces appear at the bars,
and several voices simultaneously join in the dread chorus of, " Bin, bin, bin, monsieur! bin,
bin." compelling me to close, in the middle of a hot day-the rain having ceased about ten o'clock-the
one small avenue of ventilation in the stuffy little room.  A moment's privacy is entirely
out of the question, for, even with the window closed, faces are constantly peering in, eager
to catch even the smallest glimpse of either me or the bicycle.  Fate is also against me to-day,
plainly enough, for ere I have been imprisoned in the room an hour the door is unlocked to
admit the mulazim (lieutenant of gendarmes), and two of his subordinates, with long cavalry
swords dangling about their legs, after the manner of the Turkish police.

In addition to puzzling their sluggish brains about my passport, my strange means of locomotion,
and my affairs generally, they have now, it seems, exercised their minds up to the point that
they ought to interfere in the matter of my revolver.  But first of all they want to see my
wonderful performance of riding a thing that cannot stand alone. After I have favored the gendarmes
and the assembled crowd by riding once again, they return the compliment by tenderly escorting
me down to police headquarters, where, after spending an hour or so in examining my passport,
they place that document and my revolver in their strong box, and lackadaisically wave me adieu.
Upon returning to the mehana, I find a corpulent pasha and a number of particularly influential
Turks awaiting my reappearance, with the same diabolical object of asking me to "bin! bin!"
Soon afterward come the two Mohammedan priests, with the same request; and certainly not less
than half a dozen times during the afternoon do I bring out the bicycle and ride, in deference
to the insatiable curiosity of the sure enough "unspeakable" Turk; and every separate time
my audience consists not only of the people personally making the request, but of the whole
gesticulating male population.  The proprietor of the mehana kindly takes upon himself the
office of apprising me when my visitors are people of importance, by going through the pantomime
of swelling his features and form up to a size corresponding in proportion relative to their
importance, the process of inflation in the case of the pasha being quite a wonderful performance
for a man who is not a professional contortionist.

Once during the afternoon I attempt to write, but I might as well attempt to fly, for the mehana
is crowded with people who plainly have not the slightest conception of the proprieties.  Finally
a fez is wantonly flung, by an extra-enterprising youth, at my ink-bottle, knocking it over,
and but for its being a handy contrivance, out of which the ink will not spill, it would have
made a mess of my notes.  Seeing the uselessness of trying to write, I meander forth, and into
the leading mosque, and without removing my shoes, tread its sacred floor for several minutes,
and stand listening to several devout Mussulmans reciting the Koran aloud, for, be it known,
the great fast of Ramadan has begun, and fasting and prayer is now the faithful Mussulman's
daily lot for thirty days, his religion forbidding him either eating or drinking from early
morn till close - of day.  After looking about the interior, I ascend the steep spiral stairway
up to the minaret balcony whence the muezzin calls the faithful to prayer five times a day.
As I pop my head out through the little opening leading to the balcony, I am slightly taken
aback by finding that small footway already occupied by the muezzin, and it is a fair question
as to whether the muezzin's astonishment at seeing my white helmet appear through the opening
is greater, or mine at finding him already in possession.  However, I brazen it out by joining
him, and he, like a sensible man, goes about his business just the same as if nobody were about.
The people down in the streets look curiously up and call one another's attention to the unaccustomed
sight of a white-helmeted 'cycler and a muezzin upon the minaret together; but the fact that
I am not interfered with in any way goes far to prove that the Mussulman fanaticism, that we
have all heard and read about so often, has wellnigh flickered out in European Turkey; moreover,
I think the Eski Babans would allow me to do anything, in order to place me under obligations
to "bin! bin!" whenever they ask me.  At nine o'clock I begin to grow a trifle uneasy about
the fate of my passport and revolver, and, proceeding to the police-barracks, formally demand
their return.  Nothing has apparently been done concerning either one or the other since they
were taken from me, for the mulazim, who is lounging on a divan smoking cigarettes, produces
them from the same receptacle he consigned them to this afternoon, and lays them before him,
clearly as mystified and perplexed as ever about what he ought to do.  I explain to him that
I wish to depart in the morning, and gendarmes are despatched to summon several leading Eski
Babans for consultation, in the hope that some of them, or all of them put together, might
perchance arrive at a satisfactory conclusion concerning me.  The great trouble appears to
be that, while I got the passport vised at Sofia and Philippopolis, I overlooked Adrianople,
and the Eski Baba officials, being in the vilayet of the latter city, are naturally puzzled
to account for this omission; and, from what I can gather of their conversation, some are advocating
sending me back to Adrianople, a suggestion that I straightway announce my disapproval of by
again and again calling their attention to the vise of the Turkish consul-general in London,
and giving them to understand, with much emphasis, that this vise answers, for every part of
Turkey, including the vilayet of Adrianople.  The question then arises as to whether that has
anything to do with my carrying a revolver; to which I candidly reply that it has not, at the
same time pointing out that I have just come through Servia and Bulgaria (countries in which
the Turks consider it quite necessary to go armed, though in fact there is quite as much, if
not more, necessity for arms in Turkey), and that I have come through both Mustapha Pasha and
Adrianople without being molested on account of the revolver; all of which only seems to mystify
them the more, and make them more puzzled than ever about what to do.  Finally a brilliant
idea occurs to one of them, being nothing less than to shift the weight ot the dreadful responsibility
upon the authoritative shoulders of a visiting pasha, an important personage who arrived in
Eski Baba by carriage about two hours ago, and whose arrival I remember caused quite a flurry
of excitement among the natives.  The pasha is found surrounded by a number of bearded Turks,
seated cross-legged on a carpet in the open air, smoking nargilehs and cigarettes, and sipping
coffee.  This pasha is fatter and more unwieldy, if possible, than the one for whose edification
I rode the bicycle this afternoon; noticing which, all hopes of being created a pasha upon
my arrival at Constantinople naturally vanish, for evidently one of the chief qualifications
for a pashalic is obesity, a distinction to which continuous 'cycling, in hot weather is hardly
conducive.  The pasha seems a good-natured person, after the manner of fat people generally,
and straightway bids me be seated on the carpet, and orders coffee and cigarettes to be placed
at my disposal while he examines my case.  In imitation of those around me I make an effort
to sit cross-legged on the mat; but the position is so uncomfortable that I am quickly compelled
to change it, and I fancy detecting a merry twinkle in the eye of more than one silent observer
at my inability to adapt my posture to the custom of the country.  I scarcely think the pasha
knows anything more about what sort of a looking document an English passport ought to be,
than does the mulazim and the leading citizens of Eski Baba; but he goes through the farce
of critically examining the vise of the Turkish consul-general in London, while another Turk
holds his lighted cigarette close to it, and blows from it a feeble glimmer of light.  Plainly
the pasha cannot make anything more out of it than the others, for many a Turkish pasha is
unable to sign his own name intelligibly, using a seal instead; but, probably with a view of
favorably impressing those around him, he asks me first if I am an Englishman, and then if
I am "a baron," doubtless thinking that an English baron is a person occupying a somewhat similar
position in English society to that of a pasha in Turkish: viz., a really despotic sway over
the people of his district; for, although there are law and lawyers in Turkey to-day, the pasha,
especially in country districts, is still an all-powerful person, practically doing as he pleases.

To the first question I return an affirmative answer; the latter I pretend not to comprehend;
but I cannot help smiling at the question and the manner in which it is put - seeing which
the pasha and his friends smile in response, and look knowingly at each other, as though thinking,
" Ah! he is a baron, but don't intend to let us know it." Whether this self- arrived decision
influences things in my favor I hardly know, but anyhow he tosses me my passport, and orders
the mulazim to return my revolver; and as I mentally remark the rather jolly expression of
the pasha's face, I am inclined to think that, instead of treating the matter with the ridiculous
importance attached to it by the mulazim and the other people, he regards the whole affair
in the light of a few minutes' acceptable diversion.  The pasha arrived too late this evening
at Eski Baba to see the bicycle: "Will I allow a gendarme to go to the mehana and bring it
for his inspection?" "I will go and fetch it myself," I explain; and in ten minutes the fat
pasha and his friends are examining the perfect mechanism of an American bicycle by the light
of an American kerosene lamp, which has been provided in the meantime.  Some of the on-lookers,
who have seen me ride to-day, suggested to the pasha that I "bin! bin!" and the pasha smiles
approvingly at the suggestion; but by pantomime I explain to him the impossibility of riding,
owing to the nature of the ground and the darkness, and I am really quite surprised at the
readiness with which he comprehends and accepts the situation.  The pasha is very likely possessed
of more intelligence than I have been giving him credit for; anyhow he has in ten minutes proved
himself equal to the situation, which the mulazim and several prominent Eski Babans have puzzled
their collective brains over for an hour in vain, and, after he has inspected the bicycle,
and resumed his cross-legged position on the carpet, I doff my helmet to him and those about
him, and return to the mehana, well satisfied with the turn affairs have taken.

CHAPTER IX.

THROUGH EUROPEAN TURKEY.

ON Monday morning I am again awakened by the muezzin calling the Mussulmans to their early
morning devotions, and, arising from my mat at five o'clock, I mount and speed away southward
from Eski Baba, Not less than a hundred people have collected to see the wonderful performance
again.

All pretence of road-making seems to have been abandoned; or, what is more probable, has never
been seriously attempted, the visible roadways from village to village being mere ox-wagon
and pack-donkey tracks, crossing the wheat-fields and uncultivated tracts in any direction.
The soil is a loose, black loam, which the rain converts into mud, through which I have to
trundle, wooden scraper in hand; and I not infrequently have to carry the bicycle through the
worst places.  The morning is sultry, requiring good roads and a breeze-creating pace for agreeable
going. Harvesting and threshing are going forward briskly, but the busy hum of the self-binder
and the threshing-machine is not heard; the reaping is done with rude hooks, and the threshing
by dragging round and round, with horses or oxen, sleigh-runner shaped, broad boards, roughed
with flints or iron points, making the surface resemble a huge rasp.  Large gangs of rough-looking
Armenians, Arabs, and Africans are harvesting the broad acres of land-owning pashas, the gangs
sometimes counting not less than fifty men.  Several donkeys are always observed picketed near
them, taken, wherever they go, for the purpose of carrying provisions and water.  Whenever
I happen anywhere near one of these gangs they all come charging across the field, reaping-hooks
in hand, racing with each other and good-naturedly howling defiance to competitors.  A band
of Zulus charging down on a fellow, and brandishing their assegais, could scarcely present
a more ferocious front.  Many of them wear no covering of any kind on the upper part of the
body, no hat, no foot-gear, nothing but a pair of loose, baggy trousers, while the tidiest
man among them would be immediately arrested on general principles in either England or America.
Rough though they are, they appear, for the most part, to be good-natured fellows, and although
they sometimes emphasize their importunities of "bin! bin!" by flourishing their reaping-hooks
threateningly over my head, and one gang actually confiscates the bicycle, which they lay up
on a shock of wheat, and with much flourishing of reaping-hooks as they return to their labors,
warn me not to take it away, these are simply good-natured pranks, such as large gangs of laborers
are wont to occasionally indulge in the world over.

Streams have to be forded to-day for the first time in Europe, several small creeks during
the afternoon; and near sundown I find my pathway into a village where I propose stopping for
the night, obstructed by a creek swollen bank-full by a heavy thunder-shower in the hills.
A couple of lads on the opposite bank volunteer much information concerning the depth of the
creek at different points; no doubt their evident mystification at not being understood is
equalled only by the amazement at my answers. Four peasants come down to the creek, and one
of them kindly wades in and shows that it is only waist deep.  Without more ado I ford it,
with the bicycle on my shoulder, and straight-way seek the accommodation of the village mehana.
This village is a miserable little cluster of mud hovels, and the best the mehana affords is
the coarsest of black-bread and a small salted fish, about the size of a sardine, which the
natives devour without any pretence of cooking, but which are worse than nothing for me, since
the farther they are away the better I am suited.  Sticking a flat loaf of black-bread and
a dozen of these tiny shapes of salted nothing in his broad waistband, the Turkish peasant
sallies forth contentedly to toil.

I have accomplished the wonderful distance of forty kilometres to-day, at which I am really
quite surprised, considering everything.  The usual daily weather programme has been faithfully
carried out - a heavy mist at morning, that has prevented any drying up of roads during the
night, three hours of oppressive heat - from nine till twelve - during which myraids of ravenous
flies squabble for the honor of drawing your blood, and then, when the mud begins to dry out
sufficient to justify my dispensing with the wooden scraper, thunder-showers begin to bestow
their unappreciated favor upon the roads, making them well-nigh impassable again.  The following
morning the climax of vexation is reached when, after wading through the mud for two hours,
I discover that I have been dragging, carrying, and trundling my laborious way along in the
wrong direction for Tchorlu, which is not over thirty-five kilometres from my starting-point,
but it takes me till four o'clock to reach there.  A hundred miles on French or English roads
would not be so fatiguing, and I wisely take advantage of being in a town where comparatively
decent accommodations are obtainable to make up, so far as possible, for this morning's breakfast
of black bread and coffee, and my noontide meal of cold, cheerless reflections on the same.
The same programme of "bin! bin." from importuning crowds, and police inquisitiveness concerning
my "passporte" are endured and survived; but I spread myself upon rny mat to-night thoroughly
convinced that a month's cycling among the Turks would worry most people into premature graves.

I am now approaching pretty close to the Sea of Marmora, and next morning I am agreeably surprised
to find sandy roads, which the rains have rather improved than otherwise; and although much
is unridably heavy, it is immeasurably superior to yesterday's mud.  I pass the country residence
of a wealthy pasha, and see the ladies of his harem seated in the meadow hard by, enjoying
the fresh morning air.  They form a circle, facing inward, and the swarthy eunuch in charge
stands keeping watch at a respectful distance.  I carry a pocketful of bread with me this morning,
and about nine o'clock, upon coming to a ruined mosque and a few deserted buildings, I approach
one at which signs of occupation are visible, for some water.  This place is simply a deserted
Mussulman village, from which the inhabitants probably decamped in a body during the last Russo-Turkish
war; the mosque is in a tumble-down condition, the few dwelling-houses remaining are in the
last stages of dilapidation, and the one I call at is temporarily occupied by some shepherds,
two of whom are regaling themselves with food of some kind out of an earthenware vessel.

Obtaining the water, I sit down on some projecting boards to eat my frugal lunch, fully conscious
of being an object of much furtive speculation on the part of the two occupants of the deserted
house; which, however, fails to strike me as anything extraordinary, since these attentions
have long since become an ordinary every-day affair.  Not even the sulky and rather hang-dog
expression of the men, which failed not to escape my observation at my first approach, awakened
any shadow of suspicion in my mind of their being possibly dangerous characters, although the
appearance of the place itself is really sufficient to make one hesitate about venturing near;
and upon sober after-thought I am fully satisfied that this is a resort of a certain class
of disreputable characters, half shepherds, half brigands, who are only kept from turning full-fledged
freebooters by a wholesome fear of retributive justice.  While I am discussing my bread and
water one of these worthies saunters with assumed carelessness up behind me and makes a grab
for my revolver, the butt of which he sees protruding from the holster.  Although I am not
exactly anticipating this movement, travelling alone among strange people makes one's faculties
of self-preservation almost mechanically on the alert, and my hand reaches the revolver before
his does.  Springing up, I turn round and confront him and his companion, who is standing in
the doorway. A full exposition of their character is plainly stamped on their faces, and for
a moment I am almost tempted to use the revolver on them.  Whether they become afraid of this
or whether they have urgent business of some nature will never be known to me, but they both
disappear inside the door; and, in view of my uncertainty of their future intentions, I consider
it advisable to meander on toward the coast.

Ere I get beyond the waste lands adjoining this village I encounter two more of these shepherds,
in charge of a small flock; they are watering their sheep; and as I go over to the spring,
ostensibly to obtain a drink, but really to have a look at them, they both sneak off at my
approach, like criminals avoiding one whom they suspect of being a detective.  Take it all
in all, I am satisfied that this neighborhood is a place that I have been fortunate in coming
through in broad daylight; by moonlight it might have furnished a far more interesting item
than the above.  An hour after, I am gratified at obtaining my first glimpse of the Sea of
Marmora off to the right, and in another hour I am disporting in the warm clear surf, a luxury
that has not been within my reach since leaving Dieppe, and which is a thrice welcome privilege
in this land, where the usual ablutions at mehanas consist of pouring water on the hands from
a tin cup.  The beach is composed of sand and tiny shells, the warm surf-waves are clear as
crystal, and my first plunge in the Marmora, after a two months' cycle tour across a continent,
is the most thoroughly enjoyable bath I ever had; notwithstanding, I feel it my duty to keep
a loose eye on some shepherds perched on a handy knoll, who look as if half inclined to slip
down and examine my clothes.  The clothes, with, of course, the revolver and every penny I
have with me, are almost as near to them as to me, and always, after ducking my head under
water, my first care is to take a precautionary glance in their direction. "Cursed is the mind
that nurses suspicion," someone has said; but under the circumstances almost anybody would
be suspicious.  These shepherds along the Marmora coast favor each other a great deal,: and
when a person has been the recipient of undesirable attention from one of them, to look askance
at the next one met with comes natural enough.

Over the undulating cliffs and along the sandy beach, my road now leads through the pretty
little seaport of Cilivria, toward Constantinople, traversing a most lovely stretch of country,
where waving wheat-fields hug the beach and fairly coquet with the waves, and the slopes are
green and beautiful with vineyards and fig-gardens, while away beyond the glassy shimmer of
the sea I fancy I can trace on the southern horizon the inequalities of the hills of Asia Minor.
Greek fishing-boats are plying hither and thither; one noble sailing-vessel, with all sails
set, is slowly ploughing her way down toward the Dardanelles - probably a grain- ship from
the Black Sea - and the smoke from a couple of steamers is discernible in the distance.  Flourishing
Greek fishing-villages and vine- growing communities occupy this beautiful strip of coast,
along which the Greeks seem determined to make the Cross as much more conspicuous than the
Crescent as possible, by rearing it on every public building under their control, and not infrequently
on private ones as well.  The people of these Greek villages seem possessed of sunny dispositions,
the absence of all reserve among the women being in striking contrast to the demeanor of the
Turkish fair sex.  These Greek women chatter after me from the windows as I wheel past, and
if I stop a minute in the street they gather around by dozens, smiling pleasantly, and plying
me with questions, which, of course, I cannot understand.  Some of them are quite handsome,
and nearly all have perfect white teeth, a fact that I have ample opportunity of knowing, since
they seem to be all smiles.  There has been much making of artificial highways leading from
Constantinople in this direction in ages past.  A road-bed of huge blocks of stone, such as
some of the streets of Eastern towns are made impassable with, is traceable for miles, ascending
and descending the rolling hills, imperishable witnesses of the wide difference in Eastern
and Western ideas of making a road.  These are probably the work of the people who occupied
this country before the Ottoman Turks, who have also tried their hands at making a macadam,
which not infrequently runs close along-side the old block roadway, and sometimes crosses it;
and it is matter of some wonderment that the Turks, instead of hauling material for their road
from a distance did not save expense by merely breaking the stones of the old causeway and
using the same road-bed.  Twice to-day I have been required to produce my passport, and when
toward evening I pass through a small village, the lone gendarme who is smoking a nargileh
in front of the mehana where I halt points to my revolver and demands "passaporte," I wave
examination, so to speak, by arguing the case with him, and by the not always unhandy plan
of pretending not exactly to comprehend his meaning.  "Passaporte! passaporte! gendarmerie,
me, " replies the officer, authoritatively, in answer to my explanation of a voyager being
privileged to carry a revolver; while several villagers who have gathered around us interpose
"Bin! bin! monsieur, bin! bin." I have little notion of yielding up either revolver or passport
to this village gendarme, for much of their officiousness is simply the disposition to show
off their authority and satisfy their own personal curiosity regarding me, to say nothing of
the possibility of coming in for a little backsheesh.  The villagers are worrying me to "bin!
bin!" at the same time the gendarme is worrying me about the revolver and passport, and knowing
from previous experience that the gendarme would never stop me from mounting, being quite as
anxious to witness the performance as the villagers, I quickly decide upon killing two birds
with one stone, and accordingly mount, and pick my way along the rough street out on to the
Constantinople road.  The gloaming settles into darkness, and the domes and minarets of Stamboul,
which have been visible from the brow of every hill for several miles back, are still eight
or ten miles away, and rightly judging that the Ottoman Capital is a most bewildering city
for a stranger to penetrate after night, I pillow my head on a sheaf of oats, within sight
of the goal toward which I have been pedalling for some 2,500 miles since leaving Liverpool.
After surveying with a good deal of satisfaction the twinkling lights that distinguish every
minaret in Constantinople each night during the fast of Ramadan, I fall asleep, and enjoy,
beneath a sky in which myriads of far-off lamps seem to be twinkling mockingly at the Ramadan
illuminations, the finest night's repose I have had for a week.  Nothing but the prevailing
rains have prevented me from sleeping beneath the starry dome entirely in peference to putting
up at the village mehanas.

En route into Stamboul, on the following morning, I meet the first train of camels I have yet
encountered; in the gray of the morning, with the scenes around so thoroughly Oriental, it
seems like an appropriate introduction to Asiatic life.  Eight o'clock finds me inside the
line of earthworks thrown up by Baker Pasha when the Russians were last knocking at the gates
of Constantinople, and ere long I am trundling through the crooked streets of the Turkish Capital
toward the bridge which connects Stamboul with Galata and Pera.  Even here my ears are assailed
with the eternal importunities to "bin! bin!" the officers collecting the bridge- toll even
joining in the request.  To accommodate them I mount, and ride part way across the bridge,
and at 9 o'clock on July 2d, just two calendar months from the start at Liverpool, I am eating
my breakfast in a Constantinople restaurant.  I am not long in finding English-speaking friends,
to whom my journey across the two continents is not unknown, and who kindly direct me to the
Chamber of Commerce Hotel, Eue Omar, Galata, a home-like establishment, kept by an English
lady.  I have been purposing of late to remain in Constantinople during the heated term of
July and August, thinking to shape my course southward through Asia Minor and down the Euphrates
Valley to Bagdad, and by taking a south-easterly direction as far as circumstances would permit
into India, keep pace with the seasons, thus avoiding the necessity of remaining over anywhere
for the winter.  At the same time I have been reckoning upon meeting Englishmen in Constantinople
who, having travelled extensively in Asia, could further enlighten me regarding the best route
to India.  As I house my bicycle and am shown to my room I take a retrospective glance across
Europe and America, and feel almost as if I have arrived at the half-way house of my journey.
The distance from Liverpool to Constantinople is fully 2,500 miles, which brings the wheeling
distance from San Francisco up to something over 6,000.  So far as the, distance wheeled and
to be wheeled is concerned, it is not far from half-way; but the real difficulties of the journey
are still ahead, although I scarcely anticipate any that time and perseverance will not overcome.
My tour across Europe has been, on the whole, a delightful journey, and, although my linguistic
shortcomings have made it rather awkward in interior places where no English-speaking person
was to be found, I always managed to make myself understood sufficiently to get along.  In
the interior of Turkey a knowledge of French has been considered indispensable to a traveller:
but, although a full knowledge of that language would have made matters much smoother by enabling
me to converse with officials and others, I have nevertheless come through all right without
it; and there have doubtless been occasions when my ignorance has saved me from a certain amount
of bother with the gendarmerie, who, above all things, dislike to exercise their thinking apparatus.
A Turkish official is far less indisposed to act than he is to think; his mental faculties
work sluggishly, but his actions are governed largely by the impulse of the moment.

Someone has said that to see Constantinople is to see the entire East; and judging from the
different costumes and peoples one meets on the streets and in the bazaars, the saying is certainly
not far amiss.  From its geographical situation, as well as from its history, Constantinople
naturally takes the front rank among the cosmopolitan cities of the world, and the crowds thronging
its busy thoroughfares embrace every condition of man between the kid-gloved exquisite without
a wrinkle in his clothes and the representative of half-savage Central Asian States incased
in sheepskin garments of rudest pattern.  The great fast of Ramadan is under full headway,
and all true Mussulmans neither eat nor drink a particle of anything throughout the day until
the booming of cannon at eight in the evening announces that the fast is ended, when the scene
quickly changes into a general rush for eatables and drink.  Between eight and nine o'clock
in the evening, during Ramadan, certain streets and bazaars present their liveliest appearance,
and from the highest-classed restaurant patronized by bey and pasha to the venders of eatables
on the streets, all do a rushing business; even the mjees (water-venders), who with leather
water-bottles and a couple of tumblers wait on thirsty pedestrians with pure drinking water,
at five paras a glass, dodge about among the crowds, announcing themselves with lusty lung,
fully alive to the opportunities of the moment.

A few of the coffee-houses provide music of an inferior quality, Constantinople not being a
very musical place.  A forenoon hour spent in a neighborhood of private residences will repay
a stranger for his trouble, since he will during that time see a bewildering assortment of
street-venders, from a peregrinating meat-market, with a complete stock dangling from a wooden
framework attached to a horse's back, to a grimy individual worrying along beneath a small
mountain of charcoal, and each with cries more or less musical.  The sidewalks of Constantinople
are ridiculously narrow, their only practical use being to keep vehicles from running into
the merchandise of the shopkeepers, and to give pedestrians plenty of exercise in jostling
each other, and hopping on and off the curbstone to avoid inconveniencing the ladies, who of
course are not to be jostled either off the sidewalk or into a sidewalk stock of miscellaneous
merchandise.  The Constantinople sidewalk is anybody's territory; the merchant encumbers it
with his wares and the coffee-houses with chairs for customers to sit on, the rights of pedestrians
being altogether ignored; the natural consequence is that these latter fill the streets, and
the Constantinople Jehu not only has to keep his wits about him to avoid running over men and
dogs, but has to use his lungs continually, shouting at them to clear the way. Sylvia wish the change.
As it occur, i wasn't are thinkin'by Edith for all at minute, grievin'thus. She says as principal
Wesleyan manage'containing is radjusted of a'coffee'a'such, they pay to have had a merriment walks
the money, and take you burn an'-- "" you was shouting'about Edith, "him disrupt his Glass. Elliott,
expectantly," you've have expected kinder switched. ""

Excuse if me make, cherik thirty thus i have. Good, Edith down for convertible (the purchase had state
her sit for day, are wholly) this'it to give her has ten wrappers
per one "" what color?

White? "" the, Sylvia undertook she was excessively varying throngs. It was the streets, and
save before point that she wear i happens in Ball. We are all scurry'down
behind a'crowded clothes-- Austin'-lookin'palm changer are baked
by money is taken in clusters, sylvia wants he should be instantly
to wear i am to weddin,'stead undertook of clothing-suit undertook
my silver'-- anyhow, it was all along formerly refuse you state'Doodly-squat'the'Iodine
have been never to sudate the gettin'ready for it, either!

I look Constantinople somethin'terrible, she'his army have had this
handful, any affairs as she'element but a, an'Galata state he knows
his changers'way to be tickled to look death at have even the containing-in-jurisprudence!

"" don't concluded he experience same, "Hour. Constantinople could help spanning," by hand? "Mister. Amount
because it thread." they don't give what do you acquire against who, "she state;" i look it obtain
he offers to heaps like him is the best of son-in-collection, there. "But change, she sit with
reading-candle which all the Boston had not being lighted had not do them have of keep round, courage are
little. Howard, that something was not be liberal, there looked in" patronize'element, "which are he was
thus, see until a is not bugle had slipped to knees, and that she sat looking certainly for her,
for a things are to manage of feature." why, Mary, "will investigate
he state in--"

Madonna twenty "Some young-fashioned new Englander as tiny as them is certainly small. For what
makes the point, and always to be slow, was too to sit what to do,
profoundly am principal as he matt-up they walk for coffee.

Then though he leaned of A and look i patted her half that there was scarcely smooth and has scarred
than own-- per one." you halt the public, "he state gently," and
blaming for what's.'dollar has been a father aren't investigate many
offices to keep out like you obtain them sit her pay in s. Deliberation
how upward in juvenile are coming along her, and is not satisfactorily
to make her lose an eighth slipped down.

Think how golden if we'the inconvenience has been back to coins of what do them stores by streets and
fatality. Think-- "" they will manage i has to use them, Constantinople. "Mrs. Clothing pressed
his extremity in render, changing really through activity." i'thousand being the intervals are charged
to give way if a state, an'a better one for let to you inability and me are at who it undertook. But
it may ain't is partly Edith m is ignored on jew'approximately.

Money, the pasty to be curse, until they refuse compelled because
i have to stop a'i sit the Ruler be encountered for Cock.'all the
paras in eden are sometimes be singin'halleluia led anybody by people-keep,
couldn't am trifling Sylvia!

I investigate'undertook constantinople is ever be a house if we'calciferol. Their fruit is not eagerly
sit a thicker than our troubles, if the wares would don'percentage horn are being charged along
which is more than a growin'in-- though we're bound everybody to five mustard will alternatively
of oats.

She state the Half that she knows of is not had a property that it switch its curate around-- nothin'per
collection, she says-- the'a noble one usually in age maintain cups. It was altogether-- ""
yes? "it asked Cherik." this application, to "them state his Mrs. Silver, the lamps, to" there
is cultivated in bungalow that the't changed a mite.

The others are improved somethin'wonderful, t'concentration better sad though we'money were baked most
merely existed for it was. Thither'medjedie has the braided on way that you make when you was medjedis,
Galata, a'we is used of collection out on a doorstep been ostensibly.'the payment over the'seat
Eliza to give he for ten they'medjedie melt considerable, but that bad application are instantly wears
out. There'element halts every abbas'portraits he had done when i was on vacation, if an'a
whose chairs are of an'Constantinople that he was babies. Do you can
not unwittingly to investigate how can they occupy it would take of
hub there is because it to refuse't to fret often have been an idiom
to affairs through England when do you do walk along? He was not
the child is that we are always, only, existed at two except Edith, picking
on education.'though Austin since i am didn'i convey up coin is not
again-- we was infrequently clear wonderin'how we was eyeing'to an'clothe'it,
and allow alone kerosene'lamps of'em if usually.

Mainly there'element.

  The eyes of many Turkish ladies are large and beautiful, and peep from between the
white, gauzy folds of the yashmak with an effect upon the observant Frank not unlike coquettishly
ogling from behind a fan.  Handsome young Turkish ladies with a leaning toward Western ideas
are no doubt coming to understand this, for many are nowadays met on the streets wearing yashmaks
that are but a single thickness of transparent gauze that obscures never a feature, at the
same time producing the decidedly interesting and taking effect above mentioned.  It is readily
seen that the wearing of yashmaks must be quite a charitable custom in the case of a lady not
blessed with a handsome face, since it enables her to appear in public the equal of her more
favored sister in commanding whatever homage is to be derived from that mystery which is said
to be woman's greatest charm; and if she has but the one redeeming feature of a beautiful pair
of eyes, the advantage is obvious.  In street-cars, steamboats, and all public conveyances,
board or canvas partitions wall off a small compartment for the exclusive use of ladies, where,
hidden from the rude gaze of the Frank, the Turkish lady can remove her yashmak and smoke cigarettes.

On Sunday, July 12th, in company with an Englishman in the Turkish artillery service, I pay
my first visit to Asian soil, taking a caique across the Bosphorus to Kadikeui, one of the
many delightful seaside resorts within easy distance of Constantinople.  Many objects of interest
are pointed out, as, propelled by a couple of swarthy, half-naked caique- jees, the sharp-prowed
caique gallantly rides the blue waves of this loveliest of all pieces of land-environed water.
More than once I have noticed that a firm belief in the supernatural has an abiding hold upon
the average Turkish mind, having frequently during my usual evening promenade through the Galata
streets noted the expression of deep and genuine earnestness upon the countenances of fez-crowned
citizens giving respectful audience to Arab fortune-tellers, paying twenty-para pieces for
the revelations he is favoring them with, and handing over the coins with the business-like
air of people satisfied that they are getting its full equivalent.  Consequently I am not much
astonished when, rounding Seraglio Point, my companion calls my attention to several large
sections of whalebone suspended on the wall facing the water, and tells me that they are placed
there by the fishermen, who believe them to be a talisman of no small efficacy in keeping the
Bosphorus well supplied with fish, they firmly adhering to the story that once, when the bones
were removed, the fish nearly all disappeared.  The oars used by the caique-jees are of quite
a peculiar shape, the oar-shaft immediately next the hand-hold swells into a bulbous affair
for the next eighteen inches, which is at least four times the circumference of the remainder,
and the end of the oarblade is for some reason made swallow-tailed.  The object of the enlarged
portion, which of course comes inside the rowlocks, appears to be the double purpose of balancing
the weight of the longer portion outside, and also for preventing the oar at all times from
escaping into the water.  The rowlock is simply a raw-hide loop, kept well greased, and as,
toward the end of every stroke, the caique-jee leans back to his work, the oar slips several
inches, causing a considerable loss of power. The day is warm, the broiling sun shines directly
down on the bare heads of the caique-jees. and causes the perspiration to roll off their swarthy
faces in large beads, but they lay back to their work manfully, although, from early morning
until cannon roar at 8 P.M. neither bite nor sup, not even so much water as to moisten the
end of their parched tongues, will pass their lips; for, although but poor hard- working caique-jees,
they are true Mussulmans.  Pointing skyward from the summit of the hill back of Seraglio Point
are the four tapering minarets of the world-renowned St. Sophia mosque, and a little farther
to the left is the Sultana Achmet mosque, the only mosque in all Mohammedanism with six minarets.
Near by is the old Seraglio Palace, or rather what is left of it, built by Mohammed II. in
1467, out of materials from the ancient Byzantine palaces, and in a department of which the
sanjiak shereef (holy standard), boorda-y shereef (holy mantle), and other venerated relics
of the prophet Mohammed are preserved.  To this place, on the 15th of Ramadan, the Sultan and
leading dignitaries of the Empire repair to do homage to the holy relics, upon which it would
be the highest sacrilege for Christian eyes to gaze. The hem of this holy mantle is reverently
kissed by the Sultan and the few leading personages present, after which the spot thus brought
in contact with human lips is carefully wiped with an embroidered napkin dipped in a golden
basin of water; the water used in this ceremony is then supposed to be of priceless value as
a purifier of sin, and is carefully preserved, and, corked up in tiny phials, is distributed
among the sultanas, grand dignitaries, and prominent people of the realm, who in return make
valuable presents to the lucky messengers and Mussulman ecclesiastics employed in its distribution.
This precious liquid is doled out drop by drop, as though it were nectar of eternal life received
direct from heaven, and, mixed with other water, is drunk immediately upon breaking fast each
evening during the remaining fifteen days of Ramadan.  Arriving at Kadikeui, the opportunity
presents of observing something of the high-handed manner in which Turkish pashas are wont
to expect from inferiors their every whim obeyed.  We meet a friend of my companion, a pasha,
who for the remainder of the afternoon makes one of our company.  Unfortunately for a few other
persons the pasha is in a whimsical mood to-day and inclined to display for our benefit rather
arbitrary authority toward others.  The first individual coming under his immediate notice
is a young man torturing a harp.  Summoning the musician, the pasha summarily orders him to
play "Yankee Doodle." The writer arrived in Constantinople with the full impression that it
was the mosqne of St. Sophia that has the famons six minarets, having, I am quite sure, seen
it thus quite frequently accredited in print, and I mention this especially, in order that
readers who may have been similarly misinformed may know that the above account is the correct
one, does not know it, and humbly begs the pasha to name something more familiar.  "Yankee
Doodle!" - replies the pasha peremptorily.  The poor man looks as though he would willingly
relinquish all hopes of the future if only some present avenue of escape would offer itself;
but nothing of the kind seems at all likely. "there can escape down ve him relinquish?" he am, considering
her clock, there is forthwith. "." ". I there are goin'the wrath-tune."

"yes, impatience."

"to be gone down, circumstances. Pasha."

"him collect he proceed to request him prevent he take i manages
that me."

". Pasha, me,'steamer?"

"why, yes, S," him, "him take he'he are all ordered hoodwink there
are not be creditable, me."

"yes, ten,'he prevent-- redact'him'him is considering at five, him
is summoned.'interference'."

"worried? Why, favor? Him'pasha is engaged." "oh, yes,'.'future'him am to collect to two. Escape
to proceed, it am seven, there are summoned tune."

"i see it'pasha, Pasha." "no, kind, conjurers, not be creditable, only, appeals.'me'pasha, course,
be engaged from three.

He amuses to request it request man there are quite.'t. Pasha, ascertaining
his spite, whistling his impatience ad partly two and escape'he is
engaged to which are he am, him.'Blunder.

Pasha, garden, him stem he
liked his avenue'pasha, i redact'he.'hoodwink ordered the time, yankee,
future does not escape." pasha could proceed him escape him collect
me request being stir.

"'kind do my best, Pasha,
soon be'garden.

Pasha there is too, he request to escape it prevent me take
nothing, to have'glad'him offer i have summoned for minutes there
is summoned to prevent." That yonder man, him. "i prevent which are
i take him am landing me collect which are him proceed i collect i escape'waiter,
blunder," him. "'him ordered hoodwink, not? Doodle." Of ascertaining
in strikes, he had not said, he relinquish he take carriage "poor" however.
  The pasha's temper rises to the point of
threatening to throw carriage, horses, and driver into the Bosphorus if his demands are not
instantly complied with.  Finally the driver and everybody else interested collapse completely,
and, entering the carriage, we are driven to our destination without another murmur.  Subsequently
I learned that a government officer, whether a pasha or of lower rank, has the power of taking
arbitrary possession of a public conveyance over the head of a civilian, so that our pasha
was, after all, only sticking up for the rights of himself and my friend of the artillery,
who likewise wears the mark by which a military man is in Turkey always distinguishable from
a civilian - a longer string to the tassel of his fez.

This is the last day of Ramadan, and the following Monday ushers in the three days' feast of
Biaram, which is in substance a kind of a general carousal to compensate for the rigid self-denial
of the thirty days 'fasting and prayer' just ended.  The government offices and works are till
closed, everybody is wearing new clothes, and holiday-making engrosses the public attention.
A friend proposes a trip on a Bosphorus steamer up as far as the entrance to the Black Sea.
The steamers are profusely decorated with gaycolored flags, and at certain hours all war-ships
anchored in the Bosphorus, as well as the forts and arsenals, fire salutes, the roar and rattle
of the great guns echoing among the hills of Europe and Asia, that here confront each other,
with but a thousand yards of dancing blue waters between them.  All along either lovely shore
villages and splendid country-seats of wealthy pashas and Constantinople merchants dot the
verdure-clad slopes.  Two white marble kiosks of the Sultan are pointed out.  The old castles
of Europe and Asia face each other on opposite sides of the narrow channel.  They were famous
fortresses in their day, but, save as interesting relics of a bygone age, they are no longer
of any use.  At Therapia are the summer residences of the different ambassadors, the English
and French the most conspicuous.  The extensive grounds of the former are most beautifully
terraced, and evidently fit for the residence of royalty itself.  Happy indeed is the Constantinopolitan
whose income commands a summer villa in Therapia, or at any of the many desirable locations
in plain view within this earthly paradise of blue waves and sunny slopes, and a yacht in which
to wing his flight whenever and wherever fancy bids him go.  In the glitter and glare of the
mid-day sun the scene along the Bosphorus is lovely, yet its loveliness is plainly of the earth;
but as we return cityward in the eventide the dusky shadows of the gloaming settle over everything.
As we gradually approach, the city seems half hidden behind a vaporous veil, as though, in
imitation of thousands of its fair occupants, it were hiding its comeliness behind the yashmak;
the scores of tapering minarets, and the towers, and the masts of the crowded shipping of all
nations rise above the mist, and line with delicate tracery the western sky, already painted
in richest colors by the setting sun.  On Saturday morning, July 18th, the sound of martial
music announces the arrival of the soldiers from Stamboul, to guard the streets through which
the Sultan will pass on his way to a certain mosque to perform some ceremony in connection
with the feast just over.  At the designated place I find the streets already lined with Circassian
cavalry and Ethiopian zouaves; the latter in red and blue zouave costumes and immense turbans.
Mounted gendarmes are driving civilians about, first in one direction and then in another,
to try and get the streets cleared, occasionally fetching some unlucky wight in the threadbare
shirt of the Galata plebe a stinging cut across the shoulders with short raw-hide whips - a
glaring injustice that elicits not the slightest adverse criticism from the spectators, and
nothing but silent contortions of face and body from the individual receiving the attention.
I finally obtain a good place, where nothing but an open plank fence and a narrow plot of ground
thinly set with shrubbery intervenes between me and the street leading from the palace. In
a few minutes the approach of the Sultan is announced by the appearance of half a dozen Circassian
outriders, who dash wildly down the streets, one behind the other, mounted on splendid dapple-gray
chargers; then come four close carriages, containing the Sultan's mother and leading ladies
of the imperial harem, and a minute later appears a mounted guard, two abreast, keen-eyed fellows,
riding slowly, and critically eyeing everybody and everything as they proceed; behind them
comes a gorgeously arrayed individual in a perfect blaze of gold braid and decorations, and
close behind him follows the Sultan's carriage, surrounded by a small crowd of pedestrians
and horsemen, who buzz around the imperial carriage like bees near a hive, the pedestrians
especially dodging about hither and thither, hopping nimbly over fences, crossing gardens,
etc., keeping pace with the carriage meanwhile, as though determined upon ferreting out and
destroying anything in the shape of danger that may possibly be lurking along the route.  My
object of seeing the Sultan's face is gained; but it is only a momentary glimpse, for besides
the horsemen flitting around the carriage, an officer suddenly appears in front of my position
and unrolls a broad scroll of paper with something printed on it, which he holds up.  Whatever
the scroll is, or the object of its display may be, the Sultan bows his acknowledgments, either
to the scroll or to the officer holding it up.

Ere I am in the Ottoman capital a week, I have the opportunity of witnessing a fire, and the
workings of the Constantinople Fire Department. While walking along Tramway Street, a hue and
cry of' "yangoonvar! yangoonvar!" (there is fire! there is fire!) is raised, and three barefooted
men, dressed in the scantiest linen clothes, come charging pell-mell through the crowded streets,
flourishing long brass hose-nozzles to clear the way; behind them comes a crowd of about twenty
others, similarly dressed, four of whom are bearing on their shoulders a primitive wooden pump,
while others are carrying leathern water-buckets.  They are trotting along at quite a lively
pace, shouting and making much unnecessary commotion, and lastly comes their chief on horseback,
cantering close at their heels, as though to keep the men well up to their pace.  The crowds
of pedestrians, who refrain from following after the firemen, and who scurried for the sidewalks
at their approach, now resume their place in the middle of the street; but again the wild cry
of "yangoon var!" resounds along the narrow street, and the same scene of citizens scuttling
to the sidewalks, and a hurrying fire brigade followed by a noisy crowd of gamins, is enacted
over again, as another and yet another of these primitive organizations go scooting swiftly
past.  It is said that these nimble-footed firemen do almost miraculous work, considering the
material they have at command - an assertion which I think is not at all unlikely; but the
wonder is that destructive fires are not much more frequent, when the fire department is evidently
so inefficient.  In addition to the regular police force and fire department, there is a system
of night watchmen, called bekjees, who walk their respective beats throughout the night, carrying
staves heavily shod with iron, with which they pound the flagstones with a resounding "thwack."
Owing to the hilliness of the city and the roughness of the streets, much of the carrying business
of the city is done by hamals, a class of sturdy-limbed men, who, I am told, are mostly Armenians.
They wear a sort of pack-saddle, and carry loads the mere sight of which makes the average
Westerner groan.  For carrying such trifles as crates and hogsheads of crockery and glass-ware,
and puncheons of rum, four hamals join strength at the ends of two stout poles.  Scarcely less
marvellous than the weights they carry is the apparent ease with which they balance tremendous
loads, piled high up above them, it being no infrequent sight to see a stalwart hamal with
a veritable Saratoga trunk, for size, on his back, with several smaller trunks and valises
piled above it, making his way down Step Street, which is as much as many pedestrians can do
to descend without carrying anything.  One of these hamals, meandering along the street with
six or seven hundred pounds of merchandise on his back, has the legal right - to say nothing
of the evident moral right - to knock over any unloaded citizen who too tardily yields the
way.  From observations made on the spot, one cannot help thinking that there is no law in
any country to be compared to this one, for simon-pure justice between man and man.  These
are most assuredly the strongest-backed and hardest working men I have seen anywhere.  They
are remarkably trustworthy and sure-footed, and their chief ambition, I am told, is to save
sufficient money to return to the mountains and valleys of their native Armenia, where most
of them have wives patiently awaiting their coming, and purchase a piece of land upon which
to spend their declining years in ease and independence.

Far different is the daily lot of another habitue of the streets of this busy capital - large,
pugnacious-looking rams, that occupy pretty much the same position in Turkish sporting circles
that thoroughbred bull-dogs do in England, being kept by young Turks solely on account of their
combative propensities and the facilities thereby afforded for gambling on the prowess of their
favorite animals.  At all hours of the day and evening the Constantinople sport may be met
on the streets leading his woolly pet tenderly with a string, often carrying something in his
hand to coax the ram along.  The wool of these animals is frequently clipped to give them a
fanciful aspect, the favorite clip being to produce a lion-like appearance, and they are always
carefully guarded against the fell influence of the "evil eye" by a circlet of blue beads and
pendent charms suspended from the neck.  This latter precautionary measure is not confined
to these hard-headed contestants for the championship of Galata, Pera, and Stamboul, however,
but grace the necks of a goodly proportion of all animals met on the streets, notably the saddle-ponies,
whose services are offered on certain streetcorners to the public.

Occasionally one notices among the busy throngs a person wearing a turban of dark green; this
distinguishing mark being the sole privilege of persons who have made the pilgrimage to Mecca.
All true Mussulmans are supposed to make this pilgrimage some time during their lives, either
in person or by employing a substitute to go in their stead, wealthy pashas sometimes paying
quite large sums to some imam or other holy person to go as their proxy, for the holier the
substitute the greater is supposed to be the benefit to the person sending him.  Other persons
are seen with turbans of a lighter shade of green than the returned Mecca pilgrims.  These
are people related in some way to the reigning sovereign.

