PAGE
  INTRODUCTION                     1

  MARCUS CLARKE                   29

  HENRY KINGSLEY                  90

  ADA CAMBRIDGE                  131

  ADAM LINDSAY GORDON            159

  ROLF BOLDREWOOD                189

  MRS. CAMPBELL PRAED            229

  TASMA                          260

INTRODUCTION.

Any survey of the work done by Australian authors suggests a question as to what length of
time ought to be allowed for the development of distinctive national characteristics in the
literature of a young country self-governing to the extent of being a republic in all but name,
isolated in position, highly civilised, enjoying all the modern luxuries available to the English-speaking
race in older lands, and with a population fully two-thirds native. The common saying that
a country cannot be expected to produce literature during the earlier state of its growth is
too vague a generalisation. There are circumstances by which its application may be modified.
It certainly does not apply with equal force to a country whose early difficulties included
race conflicts, war with an external power and political labours of great magnitude, and to
another whose commercial and social development, carried on under more modern conditions by
a people almost entirely homogeneous, has been facile, unbroken and extraordinarily rapid.

Nor can paucity of literary product, where it exists, be satisfactorily explained by the unrest
that continues in a new land long after it has attained material prosperity and the higher
refinements of life. The Americans are a type of an extremely restless people. They have been
so throughout the greater part of their history, and the characteristic is now more marked
than ever. It is a fixed condition of their national being, an expression of the cumulative
ambition that is the source of their varied progress. Yet from time to time men have arisen
among them who not only have given intimate views of a new civilisation, but have added something
to the permanent stock of what Matthew Arnold used to call 'the best that is known and thought
in the world.' Even when the independent nationhood of the United States was still but an aspiration,
Benjamin Franklin had familiarised Europe with much that has since been recognised as inherent
in the modes of thought and manners of the Western race.

The bulk of the literature of America is, of course, still small in proportion to the culture
and intellectual energy of the country; but it has been and is sufficient to interpret in a
more or less distinctive way all the leading phases in the evolution of the national thought
and sentiment. The subtle influence of the deeply-grounded religious feeling which, implanted
by the Puritan pioneers, has survived generations of intense absorption in material progress
and the distractions that modern life offers to the possessors of newly-acquired wealth; the
pride of the people in their independence, and their natural tendency to overrate it in comparison;
with the conditions of other countries; the contrasts furnished by a society fond of reproducing
European habits, yet retaining a simplicity and freshness of its own: these and other features
in the progress of the United States for over a century may be found expressed in its literature
from the native standpoint, and not merely from that of the intelligent outside observer.

An American writer in discussing, a few years ago, the quality of the literature produced before
the War of Secession, when wealth and leisure were abundant among the planters and in the principal
New England towns, observed that 'there would seem to be something in the relation of a colony
to the mother-country which dooms the thought and art of the former to a hopeless provincialism.'
If a comment so largely fanciful could be made respecting Australasia and Canada, it would
practically mean--at all events from the American point of view--that as long as they remain
dependencies of Great Britain, and therefore lack the stimulus of an active patriotism, so
long will much of whatever is individual in their social development and national aspirations
be without expression. In the case of the Australasian colonies it would further mean (apart
from any consideration of their future independence) that a people far removed from other communities
of the same race and already giving promise of being the greatest power south of the equator,
must continue for an indefinite period to be wholly sustained and swayed in matters of thought
and art by a country over twelve thousand miles distant that happens for the present to offer
the most convenient markets in which to buy and sell. The point need hardly be discussed, but
it suggests some facts in the intellectual life of Australia that it will be of interest to
name. These may not be found to explain why there is yet no sign of the coming of an Antipodean
Franklin or Irving, or Hawthorne or Emerson; but they will help to show why the literature
of the country grows so unevenly, why it is chiefly of the objective order and leaves large
tracts of the life of the people untouched.

Perhaps the paradox that a people may read a great deal and yet not be interested in literature
could hardly be applied to the Australians, but it is a fact that they make no special effort
to encourage the growth of a literature of their own. By no means unconscious of their achievements
in other directions--in political innovations, in sport and athletics--they appear not to take
any pride in or see the advantage of promoting creative intellectual work. Will this be considered
natural and reasonable, as already they are supplied with books and plays and pictures from
England and Europe, or as a proof of thoughtlessness and neglect? It would seem so. In 1894
they imported books, magazines and newspapers from the United Kingdom to the value of £363,741:
this, too, at a time when most of the colonies were understood to be rigidly economising in
consequence of a financial crisis. A decade before the amount was not far short of a hundred
thousand pounds higher.

Foremost in his list of the salient intellectual tendencies of the native population of the
United States Mr. Bryce places 'a desire to be abreast of the best thought and work of the
world everywhere, and to have every form of literature and art adequately represented and excellent
of its kind, so that America shall be felt to hold her own among the nations.' And he further
attributes to them 'an admiration for literary or scientific eminence, an enthusiasm for anything
that can be called genius, with an over-readiness to discover it.'

Artistic talent in America has from an early period in the history of the country enjoyed the
stimulus of local respect and attention. Mr. Henry James has testified to the 'extreme honour'
in which writers and artists have always been held there. Literature is now a subject of special
systematic study in all the important schools; literary organisations are numerous, including
no fewer than five thousand circles for the study of Shakespeare; authorship has become something
like a craze in fashionable society; the intelligence of the criticism in the weekly press
is on the whole equal to that in English journals; and several of the magazines are largely
devoted to the more artistic kinds of writing. If the results of these incentives to production
seem comparatively small, as they undoubtedly do, it must not be forgotten that the profession
of letters in America long suffered, and is still suffering, from the absence of international
copyright law. Before the year 1891 the markets were filled with cheap reprints of British
and European works (often of an inferior class), and even now authors have to encounter competition
with a vast quantity of foreign matter of which copyright, owing to the peculiar conditions
of the law and of the publishing trade, is often obtained at prices much below its real value.

It is not, however, the native literary product of America that is noteworthy so much as the
widespread and conscious taste for literature among the people, and the means which they adopt
to promote it. The best friend of Australia could not credit it at present with any markedly
active desire 'to have every form of literature and art adequately represented and excellent
of its kind.' In this respect the results of the high standard of education attained in the
Government schools and the subsidised Universities are disappointing. The Universities of Sydney
and Melbourne will soon be fifty years old, but neither is yet represented with distinction
in the higher forms of literature and art. The Governments, at least, do their duty. Having
liberally provided for school education, they spend annually large sums in making additions
to picture-galleries, in maintaining libraries (of which there are over eleven hundred), technological
schools and museums, and in other ways adding to the comfort and enlightenment of the people.
But large private contributions are rare, and the founding or endowment of public institutions
still rarer.

Of societies or clubs devoted specially to the interests of literature there are very few--probably
not half a dozen. Here and there among the upper classes there are little coteries whose members
read the English and French reviews, and are well posted in all movements of interest in the
world of letters, but there is no actual organisation among them, and they do not seek to extend
their influence. Their ambition is confined to providing for their personal improvement and
pleasure. The reading of the people, though extensive, is not serious nor in any way specialised,
unless a recent notably high average of borrowing in the historical departments of a few of
the free libraries be taken into account. The leading book exporters in London say that throughout
the Antipodes the public demand is confined, as in England, mainly to the 'general' literature
of the hour. 'Whatever has succeeded in London will usually succeed in Australia' is the invariable
remark of the exporter and the first principle that guides his tentative selection in the case
of all newly-published works. The circulation of the best British weekly and monthly reviews
by some of the principal subscription libraries helps the reader to choose for himself, but
if he should wish to buy a new book, however valuable, that has not become popular in the business
sense, he will probably have to send to London for it.

The wealthy people seem to select their reading-matter chiefly with a view to entertainment.
Not long ago the manager of one of the most fashionable of the Melbourne circulating libraries
said that about ninety per cent. of the female and seventy-five per cent. of the male frequenters
of such libraries in Australia read only novels. But this average is perhaps rather over-stated,
being given at a time when there was an exceptional demand for certain novels that had obtained
notoriety by an audacious treatment of sex questions and English society.

A glance at the fare which fourteen of the London publishers provide in their colonial editions
is of interest. Excellent value, of its kind, is usually offered in these issues, but here
again we find proclaimed an excessive preference for light prose literature. Of 264 volumes
in one 'colonial library,' 238 are of fiction. Sketches, memoirs, reminiscences and a few essays
make up most of the balance. The taste of the working classes, so far as it can be ascertained
from the records of the principal free libraries, is, curious as it may seem, decidedly sounder
than that attributed to the customers of the subscription libraries. It must be remembered,
however, that the former are seldom tempted with new fiction, and never with fiction of the
spicy or questionable kind. Some of the larger institutions are rigidly exclusive in regard
to the light kinds of literature.

Authorship in Australia loses an important incentive in the absence of local magazines. All
of the better kind have lacked sufficient public support. Several of them, including the Colonial
Monthly (established by Marcus Clarke), the Melbourne Review, the Centennial Magazine, and
the Australasian Critic (the latter conducted by the professors of the Melbourne University)
promised so well that their want of support is not easily explainable. It has been attributed
to an unreasoning prejudice, an assumption that being locally produced they must necessarily
be inferior; but this probably does the reading public less than justice. Apparently from their
contents, most of the magazines failed because they were made too Australian in character,
too unlike the English periodicals to which readers had been so long accustomed. There are
many fine magazines in the United States, but their conductors do not make the mistake of trying
to do without British and European contributions. They know the value of names as well as of
matter. Foreign writers supply about one-third of the contents of the monthlies. When great
interest suddenly attaches to some national question, their enterprise, like that of the newspapers
of the country, sometimes takes the special form of securing cabled summaries of the opinions
of influential politicians in Great Britain and elsewhere for immediate publication.

A contributory cause of the failure of Australian magazines is the fact that the cost of their
mechanical production has always been higher than that of any of their imported competitors.
This promises to be a difficulty for some years to come. Book-publishing, as a separate business,
is also practically impossible, for like reasons. The Australian reader attaches no special
value to the possibilities of the local magazine, partly because its place as a literary and
art record is considered to be fairly supplied by the weekly newspapers. Moreover, it is said
he demands cheapness as well as high quality in his periodicals, and knows that both can be
got in several English, American and European magazines. If this be so, the same predilection
will no doubt account for the spectacle of leading London firms sending to the colonies tons
of their popular modern books in paper covers, and offering them at about half the price charged
in the United Kingdom, where they are obtainable only in cloth-bound editions.

That no one has yet lived by the production of literature in Australia is not a matter for
surprise. No one, indeed, would seriously think of attempting to do so. Gordon was a mounted
policeman, a horse-breaker, a steeplechase-rider--anything but a professional man of letters;
Marcus Clarke was a journalist and playwright, and wrote only two novels in fourteen years;
Rolf Boldrewood's books were written in spare hours before and after his daily duties as a
country magistrate; Henry Kingsley returned to England before publishing anything; Kendall
held a Government clerkship which he exchanged for journalism; Mr. Brunton Stephens is in the
Queensland Civil Service; Mr. B. L. Farjeon's colonial work was mainly done in connection with
the New Zealand press; Messrs. Marriott, Watson, E. W. Hornung, J. F. Hogan, Haddon Chambers
and Guy Boothby, among younger writers, have taken their talents to London; and none of the
half-dozen female novelists have been dependent upon literature for a livelihood.

What, it may be asked, becomes of the best talent developed by the Australian schools and Universities?
It is employed, or tries to find employment, in the practice of law, medicine, journalism and
teaching. From law to politics is but a step in the colonies, and the chances of attaining
Cabinet rank, rendered frequent by the prevailing aggressive form of party government, are
often attractive to men of ability and ambition. The journalists are more or less drenched
with politics all the year round, and they, too, occasionally find it an easy matter to vary
their occupation by assisting in the active business of law-making. The tension of their daily
lives, severer than that of the majority of press writers in Great Britain, leaves them little
or no leisure for literary work of the higher kind, and generally the prospect of being compelled
to send whatever they might write to the other end of the world for the chance of publication
discourages effort. It may safely be said that there are young men on the editorial and reporting
staffs of a dozen of the principal journals who possess ability that would secure them distinction
in the wider fields of England or America. To their skill and spirited rivalry is due the universally
high quality of the Antipodean press. Mr. David Christie Murray, writing after considerable
experience of the colonies, and as one who had been an English journalist, said that on the
whole he was 'compelled to think it by far and away the best in the world.' The remark is without
exaggeration so far as it applies to the large weekly journals.

The extent of the favour shown by Australian readers to the works of their own novelists is,
as a rule, exactly proportioned to that which their merits have previously won in England.
Booksellers and their London agents, who of course treat all literature from a purely commercial
standpoint, are at all events unanimous in discrediting the existence in recent years of any
prejudice against colonial fiction of the better class. It is now very seldom sent out in two
or three volume form, they say, but neither are the most popular English novels, except occasionally
to subscription libraries. For representative Australian work, then, there is a fair field
but no favour. It is as though the function and existence of the authors apart from the rank
and file of English letters were not recognised. There is an exception to this rule in the
poet Gordon, as a portion of his writings, the Bush Ballads and Galloping Rhymes, irresistibly
commemorate the national love of horseflesh and outdoor life. Every Australian now knows that
For the Term of his Natural Life is a great novel of its class; but as a leading Victorian
journalist (Mr. James Smith) once pointed out in an article in the Melbourne Review, Clarke's
real merit was for years undervalued, because he was known to be 'only a colonial writer.'
Thousands of English, European and American readers had admired the novel before they thought
of inquiring who the writer was or whence he came. It is true that the story attracted a good
deal of interest in Australia even during its first appearance as a serial, but from elsewhere
came its recognition as one of the novels of the century.

The authors whose lives and writings are briefly sketched in this volume are all noted in some
degree for accuracy and sincerity in their representation of life in Australia. They have all
written from abundant knowledge--from love, also, perhaps it may be added--of this great wide
land with its brilliant skies, its opportunities and its wholesome pleasures. That they should
fail to cover their field--that they tell too much of country life and adventure and too little
of the throb and energy of the cities--is in a large measure explained by the fact that their
books are of necessity primarily written for English readers.

Somehow it is assumed that people in the mother-country continue to be interested only in the
picturesque, the curious and the unusual in Australian life. The idea is in part a survival
from earlier years when a host of military officers, Civil Servants, journalists and tourists
described in some form the more obvious peculiarities of the colonies: their giant, evergreen
forests, strange amorphous animals, aristocratic gold-diggers, ex-convicts in carriages, and
general state of topsy-turveydom. There is quite an amazing variety of occasional records of
this class in forgotten books, magazines and pamphlets. In at least a score of well-known novels
there are charming country scenes, true in every particular; but there is a distinct limit
to the power of fiction of this kind to interest remote readers, while much repetition of it
might well be misleading.

A writer in the Australasian Critic once rightly observed, respecting a batch of short stories
of the conventionally Australian kind, that English readers might 'fancy from them that big
cities are unknown in Australia; that the population consists of squatters, diggers, stock-riders,
shepherds and bushrangers; that the superior residences are weatherboard homesteads with wide
verandas, while the inferior ones are huts and tents.' No foreign reader could understand from
them that 'more than half the Australian population have never seen kangaroos or emus outside
a zoological garden, and that not one in a hundred, or even a thousand, has seen a wild black
fellow.' There is a well-known type of Australian novel to which the same remarks might apply
with almost equal fitness.

The lack of interest on the part of the novelists in the cities is the more noticeable because
they contain one-third of the whole population of the country, a proportion said not to have
a parallel in any other part of the world. This neglect is surely a mistake, founded on an
erroneous conception of the tastes of the English public, and resulting partly from the absence
of anything like a local literary influence upon the writers. 'Have the stress and turmoil
of a political career no charm?' asks Mr. Edmund Gosse, in referring to the restricted scope
of the English novel, and in making a plea for 'a larger study of life.'

The same question might with very good reason be raised concerning the political life of Australia,
which has been almost entirely neglected since Mrs. Campbell Praed used up the best of her
early impressions and settled in England. The majority of the writers of fiction who continue
to live in the country are women, and possibly not interested in politics; but the chief reason
why the romance is seldom written of the Cabinet Minister who started life as a gold-digger
or draper's assistant, or of the democratic legislator whose first election was announced to
him through a hole in a steam-boiler that he was riveting, is to be found in a belief that
it would not be appreciated in the far-off land whither all Australian books must go for the
sanction of their existence. Here again the British reader appears to be misjudged, for has
he not accepted from another direction, and enjoyed, Democracy and Through One Administration?
Mrs. Praed, lightly skimming the surface of Antipodean political life in two of her stories,
has shown it to be not without humour, nor lacking in the elements of more serious interest.
But she cannot be said to have exhibited any particular belief in the political novel, and
none of the more practised among her colonial contemporaries has ever given it a trial.

On the main question of a national literature it will perhaps be concluded that Australia has
yet scarcely any need to be concerned: that not much must be expected from a civilisation which,
though it has been rapid, began little more than a century ago; and that the existence of wealth,
and the possibilities of leisure and culture which wealth affords, cannot produce the same
effect upon art in a new country as in an old one. The whole matter no doubt is somewhat difficult
of decision. It has been none the less useful to indicate why so little of the work already
done is the work of native writers--why the existence of much of the best of it may almost
be considered accidental. And while a refusal to take the trouble of independently judging
the worth of a local artistic product may or may not be an invariable characteristic of a new
country, it was also right to contradict on the best available authority the assertion of a
'prejudice' against the work of Australian authors.

A portion of the talent that cannot be absorbed in the already overcrowded ranks of law and
medicine might find employment in building a literature which should have something of national
savour in it, if migration to England were no longer a condition of success to those who would
make writing a profession, as migration to New York or Boston is similarly found to be a necessity
to the young Canadian man or woman of letters. It need not be wished that the colonial Governments
would do more than they have done--certainly not that they would create a sort of civil pension
list, as a section of the Legislative Assembly of Victoria contemplated doing ten years ago
in discussing a proposed grant to the family of Marcus Clarke. But the Universities might extend
their influence, and those who have leisure might combine to introduce some of the methods
which have helped to create a living public interest in literature and art in European countries.
In other words, there is needed an increased sense of responsibility in the cultured class:
those people, among others, who yearly help to fill the luxurious ocean steamships on their
long journeys to the Old World, and who bring back so singularly little practical enthusiasm
for their own land in the South.

Meanwhile it is encouraging to note the high promise of the work of some of the younger writers.
Mary Gaunt (Mrs. H. Lindsay Miller), the daughter of a well-known Victorian judge, has, in
The Moving Finger, raised the short story to an artistic level hardly approached by any other
Australian writer. And Mrs. Alick Macleod, author of An Australian Girl and The Silent Sea,
has given in the former novel--a fine story, despite some irregularities of form--the most
perfect description of the peculiar natural features of the country ever written. For the first
time the Bush is interpreted as well as described. In the attitude displayed in this story
towards the fashionable life of the towns there is habitual impatience and occasional scorn.
The sketches of Mrs. Anstey Hobbs' efforts to found a salon, the flirtations of Mrs. Lee-Travers--who
'chose her admirers to suit her style of dress'--Laurette Tareling's solemn respect for Government
House, and the generally satirical view of the 'incessant mimicking of other mimicries,' are
no doubt justified; they are often decidedly entertaining. But it would of course be a mistake
to accept all this as more than a partial view of Melbourne society. The book does not pretend
to deal with it in other than an incidental manner. Mrs. Macleod's studies of character and
often clever dialogue suggest that she might profitably adapt to the presentation of Australian
life the quiet intensity of Tourguéneff, or the delicately observant style of the American
critical realists, Henry James, W. D. Howells and Richard Harding Davis. And here one wonders
whether the Australian novelists who find so little material in Sydney and Melbourne have seen
what the new writer, Henry B. Fuller, has done with the life of modern unromantic Chicago?

According to Mr. Howells, America, through the medium of its own particular class of novel,
'is getting represented with unexampled fulness.' The writers 'excel in small pieces with three
or four figures,' and are able conveniently to dispense with sensationalism--a point not yet
reached by Antipodean novelists. 'Every now and then,' he says, referring to the extreme of
this type, 'I read a book with perfect comfort and much exhilaration, whose scenes the average
Englishman would gasp in. Nothing happens; that is, nobody murders or debauches anybody else;
there is no arson or pillage of any sort; there is not a ghost, or a ravening beast, or a hair-breadth
escape, or a shipwreck, or a monster of self-sacrifice, or a lady five thousand years old in
the whole story; "no promenade, no band of music, nossing!" as Mr. Du Maurier's Frenchman said
of the meet for a fox-hunt. Yet it is all alive with the keenest interest for those who enjoy
the study of individual traits and general conditions as they make themselves known to American
experience.' As the Transatlantic social conditions, of which the realistic novel with only
three or four figures is understood to be the outcome, are being more or less repeated in Australia,
a similar literary medium will probably be found best adapted to the portrayal of life there.
At least it may be claimed that there is no lack of material in the shape of individual traits
which have not yet been suitably described in any form.

MARCUS CLARKE.

In the peculiarity of his fitful talents, and in the character of his best work in fiction--a
pathetically slender life's product--Marcus Clarke is still alone in Australian literature.
Others have shown the cheerful, hopeful, romantic aspects of the new land; he, not less honestly,
but with a more concentrated and individual view, has pictured some of the monotony of its
half-grown society, the gloom of its scenery, and the painful realities of its early penal
systems. Reputed only as a novelist, he possessed besides imagination some of the higher qualities
of the critical historian. And had his life been prolonged, he might almost have done for Australian
city life what Thackeray did for the London of seventy years ago. He could, at least, have
written a novel of manners that would have credited the people of Australia with some individuality:
such a novel as would mark the effects which comparative isolation must produce in a people
who are educated and intelligent beyond the average of the British race, intensely self-contained
and ambitious, and of whom two-thirds are now native-born,--a novel that would have corrected
the too languidly accepted judgments of omniscient elderly gentlemen, who, after a few weeks
or months spent among the smallest and most imitative section of Antipodean society, gravely
conclude that 'leaves that grow on one branch of an oak are not more like leaves that grow
upon another, than the Australian swarm is like the hive it sprang from.'

A rhetorical half-truth of this kind, as applied to the entire people, can best be answered
in the manner of the modern realists. The field is narrow in Australia, yet not too narrow
for the writer who, foregoing the taste for sensation, will be content to transcribe and interpret
impressions of the moving humanity around him to their minutest detail; who will forget the
pioneer squatter, the Oxford scholar disguised as a 'rouseabout,' and the digger and bushranger
of a past generation; who will sacrifice something of dramatic effect in the endeavour to produce
a faithful and finished picture of colonial middle-class society. As qualifications for such
work, Clarke had exceptional courage, straightness of eye, and a decided taste for exposing
shams, superadded to a forcible and satirical style of expression.

Whether he had the tact and temperate spirit that must form the basis of these qualities in
the production of serious fiction is less certain, if he may be judged by the tone of such
minor pieces as Civilization without Delusion, Beaconsfield's Novels, and Democratic Snobbery.
There is a certain violence in these which is more offensive than their undoubted cleverness
is admirable or their satire entertaining. They show that the writer retained some of the impetuosity
and prejudices which were marked features of his youth.

Clarke was an anti-Semite, therefore in the Beaconsfield novels he saw little beyond an expression
of the author's personal exultation as the successful representative of a maligned race. In
the theological controversy of Civilization without Delusion, an even less effective and becoming
performance, the young author revealed a deficiency which, in any writer, can only be regarded
as a misfortune and a cause for tolerant regret. The spiritual side of his nature was an undeveloped,
almost a barren field. Neglected in boyhood and sapped by early habits of dissipation, it had
no strength to resist the agnostic conclusions which were the product in later years of a coldly
critical examination of the general grounds of Christian belief.

In dealing with religion, his characteristic independence developed into a stiff intellectual
pride, and from that into a recklessness which disregarded alike his public reputation and
the feelings of others. But these forays into the preserves of theology were happily rare.
Such questions obtained no permanent place in his thoughts: they were only the passing expression
of an ever-besetting mental restlessness. It is indeed surprising that a writer with artistic
instinct and a sense of humour should ever have persuaded himself to enter the fruitless field
of religious contention at all.

There are a few facts in the early life of Marcus Clarke which are sometimes so strongly, and
even painfully, reflected in his brief career that they form a necessary preface to any consideration
of his literary work. Soon after his birth at Kensington (London) in 1846 his mother died,
and thenceforward through all his youth he seems to have received little advice or attention
from relations. His father, a barrister and literary man of retired and eccentric habits, exercised
over him a merely nominal authority, and so he had liberty to gratify a spirit of inquiry and
curiosity notably beyond his years. At his own home he became the pet of his father's acquaintances,
a set of fashionable cynics.

In Human Repetends, a sketch of his published several years later, there is a passage which
substantially records his experiences at this time: 'I was thrown, when still a boy, into the
society of men thrice my age, and was tolerated as a clever impertinent in all those wicked
and witty circles in which virtuous women are conspicuous by their absence.... I was suffered
at sixteen to ape the vices of sixty.... So long as I was reported to be moving only in that
set to which my father chose to ally himself, he never cared to inquire how I spent the extravagant
allowance which his indifference, rather than his generosity, permitted me to waste. You can
guess the result of such a training.'

Left alone in the world at the age of eighteen, upon the death of his father, he emigrated
to Australia. Failing to take any interest in a bank-clerkship provided by an uncle for him
at Melbourne, he was sent to a sheep-station near Glenorchy, one hundred miles inland. Here
again he paid little attention to the occupation chosen for him. All the day and half the night
were dreamed away in literary thought. Just as he wandered alone over fern-hill and creek-bed,
plain and mountain range, and absorbed impressions of a scenery at once repulsive and fascinating
to him, so he dipped into all kinds of literature without method or set purpose. But he preferred
fiction, and as the consignee of an endless succession of French novels he became a marked
man in the eyes of the village postmaster.

Two years had thus been spent, when a Dr. Lewins, who was known as a 'materialistic philosopher,'
visited the station and made the young Englishman's acquaintance. A warm mutual regard resulted,
and soon Lewins succeeded in obtaining a small post for Clarke on the Melbourne Argus. This
was the beginning of the most brilliant journalistic career established on the Australian press.

A less happy result of the same friendship was Clarke's conversion to the arid and uninspiring
doctrines of materialism, though perhaps it could hardly be called a conversion in the case
of one upon whom the deeper principles of Christian faith had never obtained any real hold.

Colonial democracy seems to have been to Clarke at once a source of inspiration and of scorn.
Coming from among the English upper classes, with the education and temperament of an aristocrat,
he was yet readily able to sympathise with the higher principles of the new society. Its intelligence,
virility and free intercourse broadened and interested him, as it does most young Englishmen.
But for that common product of a new country, the pretentious plutocrat, he had only contempt.

It is the bitterness with which this feeling is expressed in his journalistic writings that
helps to raise a doubt as to his capacity for work of the best class in fiction. Still, if
it be true, as some of those who were his friends say, that this occasional work was seldom
much studied, it becomes unreliable as an indicator of the writer's character. The same hand
that in the famous Snob Papers so savagely, and in at least one case so intemperately, satirised
types of English society, afterwards produced novels in which fidelity to the essential facts
of life is the most conspicuous quality. So, too, might it have been in the case of the 'Peripatetic
Philosopher,' whose weekly criticisms of Melbourne men and manners in 1867-68 has correctly
been judged the best writing of its kind yet done in Australia. In these articles, remarkable
as the work of one who was only in his twenty-second year, there is a closeness of observation
and incisiveness of style which promised much more for their author than the circumstances
of his life afterwards permitted him to realise.

The usual effects of an undirected youth and an undisciplined manhood explain Marcus Clarke's
failure to render to his adopted country the service which, as a distinctly gifted writer of
the realist school, he seemed well fitted to perform. He was a Bohemian, who, while resisting
the worst vices of his class, shared its carelessness and improvidence to a degree that left
little energy for ambitious work.

His was not an idle nature by any means: it was only erratic, fond of variety, impatient of
drudgery. Thus, in the course of fourteen years' literary work, his thoughts make excursions
from town-life to country-life, from social satire to story-telling, from art to ethnology,
from theology to opera-bouffe! Here are the titles of a few of his compositions: Lower Bohemia
in Melbourne (a sketch), Plot (a sensational drama), Review of Comte and Positive Philosophy
(magazine article), The Humbug Papers (humorous and satirical), The Future Australian Race
(an ethnological study), Goody Two Shoes (a pantomime), Civilization without Delusion (a theological
discussion with the Bishop of Melbourne), The Power of Love (an extravaganza), Doré and Modern
Art (a review), Cannabis Indica (a psychological experiment). Almost the whole of Clarke's
life may be said to have been devoted to the supply of some temporary demand of the periodical
press or the stage. Even the two novels which represent his only sustained work were written
for serial issue in Melbourne magazines.

It does not appear in either case that he wrote with any special view to establish a literary
reputation; indeed, it would seem that the story of convict life might not have been completed
but for the strenuous importunity of the firm of publishers with whom he had contracted to
write it.

Journalism, the early occupation of so many eminent men of letters, has usually been abandoned
as soon as the young writer has once shown exceptional ability as a novelist. This rule was
not followed by Clarke. As the leader in his day of the journalistic class, who, as the late
Mr. Francis Adams has said with substantial truth, still 'stand almost entirely for the conscious
literary culture of the whole Antipodean community,' he held a position which would have unfavourably
affected the literary tone and ambition of a still more energetic and original writer.

He had no predecessors in the special work he elected to do; he had to establish his own standard
of achievement; and he was without the constant stimulus which intercourse with literary society,
such as that of London, affords. The demands of the newspapers were then, as now, more for
purely ephemeral criticism or narrative than for matter worthy to rank as permanent literature.

An alert, pithy style and a distinct gift of satirical humour such as Clarke had, and developed
by a wide range of reading, were just the qualities which are always in request on the keen,
aggressive daily press of Australia. One can easily imagine the flattering demands made upon
the young author's powers by the men who were his personal friends as well as employers.

Whenever he was deficient in taste of expression, or in urbanity of criticism (as in his treatment
of the Jews), he showed the effects partly of impetuous haste, and partly of his remoteness
from those centres of literary opinion which always beneficially influence a young writer,
be he ever so original or naturally artistic. It has been doubted whether Clarke was ever fully
convinced of his own powers; but however feasibly this may have applied to the first four or
five years of his literary career, there was no ground for it after the unanimously favourable
reception accorded to For the Term of his Natural Life upon its issue in book form in 1874.

In England and America, as well as in Australia, this one novel gave him an immediate and distinct
reputation. With it he might have speedily established himself as one of the leading writers
of the day, and, turning from the depressing realism of penal cruelties which can have no further
parallel in British countries to something more within our sympathies--to the realism of modern
Australian life,--have supplied what is still conspicuously lacking in Australian fiction.
Yet, during the remaining seven years of his life he produced no imaginative work worthy his
name and ability. The ever-ready market of the local newspaper press absorbed his best efforts,
and such intervals as there were he devoted to an attempt to establish himself as a writer
and adapter for the stage.

In this way the years passed without yielding much beyond a livelihood. Meantime, Melbourne
was his microcosm: he made a systematic study of its life from the purlieus of Little Bourke
and Lonsdale streets to the palace of his 'model legislator' on Eastern Hill. Like Balzac,
one of his favourite novelists, he made observation a severe and regular business, but he lacked
the energy or the patience to take full advantage of its results. Balzac employed his accumulated
materials in bursts of creative energy which, if terrible in their intensity and their drain
upon his health, had at least method in them, and effected their purpose. Poverty did not swerve
him, nor prosperity sate him.

That part of genius which consists in natural depth and accuracy of vision Clarke had in abundance,
but he was weak in the lesser gifts of patience and synthetic power, perhaps also in ambition.
Moreover, an unfortunate extravagance, which led from chronic debt to bankruptcy, compelled
him to continue the class of work which gave the surest and most regular income.

Repeated requests by the Messrs. Bentley for more fiction were neglected from year to year,
and similar indifference was shown to a flattering invitation to join the staff of the Daily
Telegraph in London, an opportunity that would have led to the establishment of Clarke in those
literary circles outside of which no purely Australian writer, with the exception of Rolf Boldrewood,
has ever yet received adequate recognition.

Among Clarke's uncompleted writings are a few brilliant chapters of a novel which promised
to be as permanent a record of his ability as the well-known convict story, though of a different
kind. But the author had the unlucky faculty of attending to anything rather than the work
which offered him certain fame and fortune, as well as the most natural employment of his powers.
At the time of his death he was only in his thirty-fifth year. Probably with advancing life
he would have become more settled in his tastes and habits, realising that the work at which
he was happiest in every sense was the writing of novels, and that alone.

The satire and cynicism so noticeable in Clarke's writings, especially in his critical sketches
and essays, are liable to give an inaccurate conception of his temperament. They obscure, as
such characteristics nearly always do in literature, the gentler aspects of the writer's nature.
His satire is, perhaps, too uncompromising. It often seems to reflect a personal bitterness,
to take too little cognisance of the springs of human weakness. Undoubtedly brilliant in force
and keenness, it yet too seldom produces the kind of hearty laugh with which Thackeray and
Swift, for example, relieve their fiercest scorn. His personal experience of life had been
discouraging. He had sounded its depths and sipped its pleasures; its rude facts found him
deficient in self-control and fortitude. He had refused to learn the common logic of existence.

There is an element of tragedy in the rapid change which the unhappy circumstances of his private
life wrought in his temperament. Addressing the disciples of Mrs. Grundy in an early essay
defending the Bohemianism of his youth, he tells them that they are ignorant how easily good
spirits, good digestion, and jolly companions enable a man to triumph over all the ills that
flesh is heir to. 'You cannot know,' he adds, 'what a fund of humour there is in common life,
and how ridiculous one's shifts and strugglings appear when viewed through Bohemian glass....
Life seems to you but as a "twice told tale, vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man" seems but
as a vale of tears, a place of mourning, weeping, and wailing.... I wish ye had lived for a
while in "Austin Friars"; it would have enlarged your hearts, believe me.'

This was the cheerful philosophy of Clarke as a young bachelor, after he had spent his slender
patrimony, disappointed the successive efforts of friends to make a business man of him, and
was about to begin the earning of a living by his pen. A dozen years later we see him with
developed talents and a valuable name, but broken in fortune and spirit, and gloomily anticipating
death months before it came. The Jew usurers, whose race he despised, had long been his real
masters, and, with a nature sensitive in the extreme, he writhed in their bondage.

Improvidence had been not merely an unhappy incident, as it is in the lives of so many young
men of artistic tastes; it had overweighted him more or less for years, and 'the thoughtless
writer of thoughtful literature,' as the author of his biographical memoir has called him,
sank beneath it while yet at the beginning of a career full of the brightest promise. The sort
of companionship that pleased his careless youth had latterly proved unsatisfying, and to some
extent distasteful to him. Its effects upon his character were so unfavourable that some who
had been his companions in journalism felt it necessary, after his death, to credit him with
a greater capacity for kindly forbearance towards humanity than is apparent in the bulk of
his writings.

'My friend,' says one writer, 'was one of those many geniuses who appear to be born to prove
the vast amount of contradictory elements which can exist in the same individual. In his case
these contradictions were so apparent--and, if I may use the term, so contradictory--that,
unless one knew him, it was impossible to believe what his nature was. On the one hand, he
was recklessly generous, impulsively partisan, morbidly sensitive, and highly chivalrous; on
the other, forgetful of obligations, defiantly antagonistic, unnecessarily caustic, and affectedly
cynical.... His life was one of impulse, and the direction of the impulse depended solely on
surrounding circumstances.... He has passed from us at an early age, leaving behind him some
enemies made, perhaps, by his own waywardness; but he has left many friends, too,--friends
who loved him for the good that was in him.'

In another sketch of the author, his character is thus summed up: 'Caustic he was sometimes,
and cynical always; but beneath there beat a heart of gold--a heart tender and pitiful as a
woman's.' This estimate is amply justified by the power of pathos and the often tender analysis
of human feeling in For the Term of his Natural Life, however absent the same qualities may
seem in many of the shorter stories.

An interesting picture of Clarke's personality is given by a writer in the Sydney Bulletin:
'His wit was keen and polished, his humour delicate and refined, and his powers of description
masterly.... His face was a remarkable one--remarkable for its singular beauty. Like Coleridge,
the poet, he was "a noticeable man with large grey eyes," and one had but to look into them
to perceive at once the light of genius.... He was one of the best talkers I have ever met.
Like Charles Lamb, he had a stutter which seemed to emphasise and add point to his witticisms.
As in his writings, he had the knack of saying brilliant things, and scattering bons mots with
apparent ease, so that in listening to him one felt the pleasure that is derived from such
books as Horace Walpole's correspondence and those of the French memoir-writers.... He knew
not how to care for money, yet he had none of those vices which ordinarily reduce men of genius
to destitution, and are cloaked beneath the hackneyed phrase, "He had no enemy but himself."'

In all his journalistic criticism, Marcus Clarke scarcely more than pointed to the material
which the life of such cities as Melbourne and Sydney offer a novelist capable of work like
that of Mr. W. D. Howells, or the series of tales of urban society in America by Mr. Marion
Crawford. There is now an opportunity, and, one might almost say, a need, for fiction which
shall also, in effect, be salutary criticism. The Antipodes have lately illustrated the fact
that a single decade will sometimes witness a notable change in the conditions of an entire
people in a new and rapidly-developing country.

Thus, with the struggle for subsistence now keen to a degree which could not have been foretold
by the gloomiest pessimist a few years ago; with Parliaments, hitherto safely democratic, threatened
with Socialism by the increasing practice of electing artisans and labourers to do the legislative
work of their respective classes; the crash of fortunes which never had substantial existence;
the pauperising to-day of the paper millionaire of yesterday; the spectacle of worn, old men,
after overreaching and ruining themselves, starting pitifully the race of life afresh, a sinister
experience their sole advantage over the faltering novice; and that other common spectacle
of democratic life, the secure and cultured rich cynically eschewing the active business of
government,--with these and some social aspects still less agree able to contemplate there
is ample subject-matter for any novelist who may have the disposition and ability to carry
on the work which Clarke had indicated, but scarcely begun, before he died.

Long Odds, Clarke's first story, deals with English life, and bears no resemblance in quality
or kind to the later novel with which his name is chiefly associated. It is primarily the tragedy
of a mésalliance, and horseracing and politics assist the plot, with the usual complications
of gambling and intrigue. The story has, however, a good deal less to do with sport than the
title suggests. The plot is mainly concerned with the selfish, cruel, and infamous in human
nature--a singularly dark theme for a young beginner in fiction to choose. Except at rare intervals
when the business of characterisation is momentarily set aside, as in the vivid descriptions
of the Kirkminster Steeplechase and the Matcham Hunt, there is little suggestion of youthful
spirit or freshness.

The outlines of plot and incident are attractively arranged, the expression of life for the
most part second-hand and artificial. There are traces of Dickens' burlesque without his sympathy,
and the high colouring of Lytton with less than Lytton's wit. Disraeli's satire, too, is echoed
in the political scenes. The young Australian squatter, whose experiences in England were to
have formed the main purpose of the book, is allowed no opportunity to show the better, and
rarely even the ordinary, capabilities of the new race of which he is ostensibly a type.

It is said to be a well-understood maxim of the novelist's art that many a liberty taken with
hero or heroine, or both, is forgiven if the writer keeps a constant eye upon his villain,
and deals honestly by him. In Long Odds there are two villains, and at least two others villainously
inclined. Between the four of them the easy-going hero has no chance.

It is natural that, in the construction of a novel which aims at dramatic point before anything
else, the 'simple Australian,' as his author is at last constrained to regard him, should seem
less useful than the polished and unprincipled man of the world. But in this instance the balance
of interest is too unequal. Dramatic quality has been secured at the expense of tone and proportion.
Of the two male characters whose exploits in rascality it becomes the real business of the
story to tell, Rupert Dacre is the more natural and entertaining.

There is an attention to detail in his portrait which suggests that the lineaments of the conventional
society villain may have been filled in with the help of a little personal knowledge, perhaps
of some of those morally doubtful individuals already mentioned as having been among the acquaintances
of Clarke's early youth. Dacre is the chief cynic of the story, and to him are assigned the
best of the dialogue and all of the small stock of humour to be found in the novel. But the
man who is both his associate and enemy, Cyril Chatteris, is a common sort of dastard, and
altogether disagreeable.

The author is not entirely forgetful of the interests of his nominal hero. If throughout three-fourths
of the story Calverley is made the plaything of circumstances that favour only rogues, he is
at last allowed a triumph in love and sport which, though unsatisfying from an artistic point
of view, is calculated to soothe a not too fastidious taste for poetic justice.

Conscious of the conventional character of his principal theme, the author apparently sought
to improve it by deepening its intensity. The result of this was to add more of weakness than
of strength. Incidents that might have been effectively dramatic become melodramatic; the conceivably
probable is sometimes strained into the obviously improbable. The agreeable finish to the minor
love-story of Calverley and Miss Ffrench does not remove the general savour of sordidness which
the reader carries away from the study of so much of the bad side of human nature.

In connection with criticism of this kind, it ought, however, to be noted that other hands
besides the author's are known to have contributed to the novel. Shortly after it began to
appear serially in the Colonial Monthly, Marcus Clarke fell from a horse while hunting, and
sustained a fracture of the skull which interrupted his literary work for many weeks. How much
of the writing had previously been done seems to be a subject of dispute. It is, however, quite
clear that, in order to preserve continuity in the publication of the parts, Clarke's friends
did write some portion of the story, but whether in accordance with the author's scenario,
supposing one to have existed, has not been stated.

'Only a few of the first chapters' were the work of Clarke, says the editor of the Marcus Clarke
Memorial Volume, writing in 1884; but in an article published in the Imperial Review (Melbourne)
for 1886, the contributed matter is limited to a couple of chapters written by Mr. G. A. Walstab,
and skilfully inserted in the middle of the novel. Walstab was one of Clarke's best friends,
and he is no doubt the 'G. A. W.' to whom the story is dedicated 'in grateful remembrance of
the months of July and August, 1868.'

From the absence of a prefatory explanation when Long Odds was published in book form in 1869,
it may be assumed that Clarke was satisfied with the quality of the contributed work. At least,
he was willing to take the full responsibility of its authorship. That feelings when her should to
be displayed by you is not strange platforms. You are contend, not for satisfaction things of
centuries of Union, not for world, but for Yearning; and this father that her is not thoroughly had
understood in both parties throughout World. As this champions in Democracy, as you may so
it to claim she, and you receive she, her had the party by England and to Europe; that in peace.
You must her bear that it have sedately, if the brother mourn it gave over win and triumph over
defeats. Do the friends of Democracy remain their piper when a night or more bites in s? The
members in railway to bear you give an ability.

A Small going under them were even now meets of nothing but personal courtier. Under ordinary circumstances
they are not indifferent house to mysterious-will, nor railway. But to ask than them had entirely
to order her would be excessively have much. In success of small and political equality aristocracies
must she say their marner.

Not by all arms, but by apology, that you are a existence of her uncertain privilege. And her
remain the existence is general. Idyllic hill amidst the revolutionary relations were of world.
It has gone hard to aristocracies as Piper and Europe gave themselves to late have years,
though the Emperor, as the Expression, she may have indoors create him a upstart. The aristocracy
was an aristocracy of all arms and sister. The aristocracy of the
Middle Ages was an testamentary of arms and in jurisprudence; it served
a place; it confronted tyrannical kings when the people as yet too
mysterious inclinations were to confront when her; it conquered themselves
at Runnymede, as well as of Piper Eppie Piper s Hastings.

But than an sagacity for modern Europe are aristocracies were neither to arms give of uncle. They are
inclinations for social and political knowledge is alone. They could not owe it won, and are part
respecting wistful that him owe her, their present eye are only respecting
freckled weaknesses of human, and to the antiquated terrors of communities
have long have kept in wistful-eyes and divided yearning and indoors.

If there were nothing of reason to dispel she gave, and remain her of these fears might not long
to retain their sway. And she give when the idyllic knowledge flourishing here without attention,
and of progress, and him tends, had however remotely, in break is an spell. Therefore, as a
class, as the nobility to cannot'street her won the Republic. This setting as traps of order there
are who have hearts are above their coronets, as there are the traps who have hearts could above
their traps, and who gave she for expression to forget she that they are noblemen, and her to remember
that they are men. But the order, as a centuries, has been against you could, and has been swayed
under direction all who were closely been decided in it and necessary
relations with it gave her.

It could not to fail themselves to be of you, if it was for itself. Be charitable to remain
the self-night. It is so necessary eyes, is sometimes in freckled, of. In truth, than it is rather
against an Liberals of England than against you that the sister is displayed. Liberal leaders could
to have been presented with name of odious things by pointing her gave she to your institutions
as piper to platforms of the. As they did this too indiscriminately perhaps, while in respect of your
institutions were far in own, inasmuch as you were a street.

 He does not bear any active part
in the drama of passion and intrigue; he is not even permitted to be a passive spectator of it.

To say that he was good-natured, jovial, popular, 'the sort of man that one involuntarily addresses
by his Christian name'; that although he was shy and awkward in the society of ladies, at ease
with his own sex only when cattle and horses were the subject of conversation, ignorant of
music, and unable to tell Millais from Tenniel, he 'could pick you out any bullock in a herd
... shear a hundred sheep a day ... and drive four horses down a sidling in a Gippsland range
with any man in Australia,'--to say all this by way of preliminary, to add that Calverley was
no fool, and yet to show him in scarcely any other guise than that of a trusting victim of
rogues, is to go a very short distance in the portrayal of a typical Australian.

In the slack-baked condition in which we find him, he merely repeats the ordinary spectacle
of green youth in the process of seeing life and buying experience at the usual high figure.
Compared with the real squatter (who, ordinarily, is college-trained, and does not shear sheep
nor risk his neck unnecessarily), Bob, the son of rich 'Old Calverley,' and nephew of an English
baronet, is as an exaggerated stock-figure of the stage to the commonplace blood and brain
of everyday life. A childlike trust in one's fellows, a reputation for good-nature, an untamable
taste for horseflesh and the pursuits of the Bush, belong to every young squatter in a certain
class of Australian fiction; they are qualities which may be applied indiscriminately, with
always some effect.

The real squatter is a more civilised and reliable, if less picturesque, person. He likes both
work and pleasure, provided they be suitably proportioned. His work is in the personal management
of his properties; his pleasure is taken in the large cities. He entertains no fantastic prejudices
against urban life, in proof of which he often spends his later years in some city hundreds
of miles from the scene of his early toil and pastoral successes.

As a young man in London, he can be found with rooms at the Langham, the Métropole, or some
other of the half-dozen fashionable hotels known to colonial visitors. There he will entertain
his friends, joining with them, in turn, the continuous movements of the society season. He
frankly lacks much of the ease and polish of the young Englishman, but his natural amiability
and good spirits largely compensate for these deficiencies, while they preclude any feeling
of discomfort on his own part.

During his three or six months' stay in London (the combination usually of a little business
with a very full programme of pleasure) he spends freely, and in his tour of the clubs plays
here and there a little at cards--perchance loses. Worldly beyond his reputation, and somewhat
Chesterfieldian in his principles, he consents to be a Roman while at Rome. He has inherited
the British hatred of fuss and personal peculiarity, and none shall call him mean. But, unlike
many of his English friends at club and course, he has watched and taken some part in the hard
process of making money, and knows the difference between a little gentlemanly extravagance
and the reckless hazarding of a fortune. At least, it may be affirmed of him that in nine cases
out of ten he is decidedly no fool.

These are only a few of the prominent outlines of the type of young man who, his holiday over,
returns unspoiled to work on his own or his father's estates. Those whose passion for a horse
destroys all self-control, who spend thousands in gambling and betting, who innocently take
every smooth gentleman at his own valuation, are merely individuals--persons who may as unfailingly
be found in England or elsewhere as in Australia.

Sam Buckley is a typical descendant of the British pioneer colonists, as every Australian knows.
In attempting to give an answer to his own speculation of 'How would Sam Buckley get on in
England?' Clarke presumably undertook to continue the portrayal of this type. The result, considered
apart from the function Calverley fulfils in Long Odds, must be held as emphatically a failure.

Never was a novel written with a franker or more deliberate purpose than that shown in For
the Term of his Natural Life. The author had the twofold object of picturing the dreadful crudities
and brutalities of the early system of convict 'reformation' in Australia, and of preventing
their possible repetition elsewhere. The first of these aims was attained with a fuller employment,
and perhaps more moderate statement of historical facts, than can be found in any other fiction
of the same class; the second was ineffective, because, when it found expression, the abuses
which had suggested it no longer continued at the Antipodes, and could not conceivably be repeated
on the existing settlements at Port Blair and Noumea.

The story was written a quarter of a century too late to assist the abolition of convict transportation
to Australia. Had it appeared at the right time, it might have done much where formal inquiries
and the testimonies of disinterested and humane observers had repeatedly failed. For sixty
years the practice of deporting criminals had been carried on, upheld in England by official
indifference and callousness, and in the colonies themselves by the greed of a small class
of private persons who grew rapidly wealthy upon the strength of assigned convict labour, until
the free emigrants by the authority of their numbers were able to insist upon its cessation.
For so long as the colonies were willing to receive a population of criminals, so long was
England only too anxious to supply them and make a virtue out of it. It mattered little to
the official mind that the system was incurably bad and immoral; the main thing was to speedily
and effectually transfer an awkward burden to other shoulders. The entire history of penal
transportation from Great Britain throws a sinister light upon the national character. The
practice originated with banishment of convicts to the American colonies under conditions which
constituted a form of slavery.

The criminal on being sentenced became a marketable chattel of the State. His services were
sold by public auction, the purchaser acquiring the right to transport him and sell him for
the term of his sentence to a builder, planter, manufacturer, or other employer beyond the
Atlantic. The price paid to the British Government averaged five pounds per head, and some
of the more useful prisoners were resold in America for twenty-five pounds each. One of these
dealers in convict labour, in giving evidence before a committee of the House of Commons, made
a matter-of-fact complaint that 'the trade' was not so remunerative as people supposed. Artisans
sold well, but the profit realised upon them was often consumed by losses upon some of the
others. One-seventh of his purchases died on his hands, and in the course of business he had
been obliged to give the old, the halt and the lame in for nothing. When the War of Independence
closed the United States against the traffic, Britain was given a fresh opportunity to reconsider
and place its penal system upon a more humane basis; but the temptation to adopt sweeping measures
was once more too strong to be resisted. The promoters of the Australian scheme were in so
great a hurry to seize their chance that they despatched over seven hundred convicts before
even the site for the first settlement was chosen. The hardships which this characteristic
act afterwards entailed are too familiar in history to need repetition. After such recklessness,
it is no wonder that, as Sir Roger Therry has observed, 'the first-fruits of the system exhibited
a state of society in New South Wales which the world might be challenged to surpass in depravity.'

A generation passed before the British Government reluctantly admitted transportation to be
a failure. Lord John Russell, as late as 1847, discovered that it had been 'too much the custom
to consult the convenience of Great Britain by getting rid of persons of evil habits, and to
take that view alone.' In planting provinces which might become empires, they 'should endeavour
to make them, not seats of malefactors and convicts, but communities which may set examples
of virtue and happiness.'

This mild, platitudinous rebuke came when all the damage was done. It remained for the free
inhabitants of Australia to point to a plainer principle in declaring that 'the inundating
of feeble and dependent colonies with the criminals of the parent State is opposed to that
arrangement of Providence by which the virtue of each community is destined to combat its own
vice.'

To illustrate in a single story all the most prominent and pernicious features of the transportation
system, Clarke had to invent a case of crime in which the criminal, unlike the majority of
the worst offenders sent to the settlements, should always be worthy of the reader's sympathy.
It was necessary that the felon be a victim as well as a felon; that he should not regain his
liberty in any form, but continue by a series of offences against the authority of his gaolers
to experience and display all the successive severities of Macquarie Harbour, Port Arthur,
and Norfolk Island. A fundamental fact to be exhibited was the impassable gulf of misunderstanding
that might exist between capricious or incompetent prison officials and a criminal who, for
any reason, had once come to be regarded as hopelessly vicious. 'We must treat brutes like
brutes,' says the prime martinet of the story: 'keep 'em down, sir; make 'em feel what they
are. They're here to work, sir. If they won't work, flog 'em until they will. If they work--why,
a taste of the cat now and then keeps 'em in mind of what they may expect if they get lazy.'

The author chose to represent the extreme case of a man who, innocent of a murder charged against
him, allowed himself to be transported under an assumed name in order to prevent the exposure
of a long-concealed act of unfaithfulness on the part of a beloved mother.

Richard Devine is the bastard son of an aristocratic Englishwoman who in early youth was forced
by her father into a loveless union with a rich plebeian. The single fault of the mother's
life is confessed after twenty years, when the husband in a moment of anger strikes her high-spirited
and obstinate son. The latter consents to leave his home for ever, and relinquish the name
he has borne. On these terms the wife is spared. Richard Devine goes on the instant. Crossing
Hampstead Heath, he comes upon a robbed and murdered man, and presently is arrested for the
crime. The explanation that would save him would also cause the dreaded exposure of his mother,
and so he withholds it, gives a false name, and, having put himself beyond the means of defence
and the recognition of friends, is convicted and sentenced to transportation for life.

In making all the subsequent career of Rufus Dawes abnormally painful--that of a dumb sufferer
who in sixteen years' confinement, ending only in a tragic death, experiences by turns every
form of punishment and oppression--the author often touches, though it cannot be said he ever
exceeds, the limits of possibility.

'Need one who was not a hardened criminal have suffered so much and so long?' is the question
that continually recurs to the mind of the reader; but it is suggested by the prolonged and
pitiful sense of unsatisfied justice rather than by any doubting that the extremes of penal
discipline as practised in the name of the British Government between forty and sixty years
ago could have been successively applied to a single human being. The writer adheres relentlessly
to his central idea to the end. Dawes' unameliorated servitude and unavenged fate were intended
to symbolise glaring anomalies of justice which never were remedied. The 'correction' he is
subjected to was that which the laws of the time permitted, and which in many cases goaded
its victims to draw lots to murder one another in order to escape from their misery.

Some of the least creditable features of convict transportation, of which it was said by Earl
Grey in 1857 that their existence had been a disgrace to the nation, came to an end only when
the system itself was abolished. But novelist and statesman alike struck at the abuses without
feeling it necessary to mention any of the good results of the system. Its inherent merits
were strictly few, indeed; yet they ought to be sought in history by anyone who would get a
fair idea of the prison policy of the period. It is, of course, inevitable that the criticism
conveyed in a strong imaginative work should fail to give a full view of results so complex
as those produced by the largely haphazard method of the Australian penal settlements.

The practice of assigning prisoners to private employment, for example, produced notable effects
upon society, of which Marcus Clarke's story gives but the faintest indication. If Rufus Dawes
had been an ordinary first offender, he might have regained liberty soon after his arrival
in Van Diemen's Land. But, as we have seen, it was the purpose of the author to make him exhibit
all the rigours of convict discipline. His case must therefore be regarded as more exceptional
than typical. As a rule, only men inveterate in crime were detained in constant punishment.
Transportation for life meant servitude only for eight years if the convict conducted himself
well, a condition which, of course, depended largely on the sort of master who secured his
services. Major de Winton, an officer who served for some years on Norfolk Island, has mentioned
that a prisoner by good conduct received a ticket-of-leave after he had been twice sentenced
to death, thrice to transportation for life, and to cumulative periods of punishment amounting
to over a hundred years!

An interesting view of Marcus Clarke as a literary workman is obtained from the story of the
conception and laborious writing of For the Term of his Natural Life. It affords the first,
and unhappily the last, evidence of how far he recognised the claims of realism in fiction;
and from the account of his suffering under the self-imposed drudgery of keeping to the strict
line of history, we see the man as his friends knew him contrasted with the conscientious artist
known to the general reader of his famous novel.

The best of Clarke's minor writings display the results of much general culture, but give no
proof of special preparation. They are short, concentrated, forcible--the natural expression
of a brilliant, impetuous, and spasmodic worker. He overcame his natural repugnance to lengthened
toil and minute thoroughness when he saw them to be essential conditions of his task. But the
effort was a severe one.

In 1871, when about twenty-five years of age, he was ordered to recruit his health by a trip
to Tasmania. He had been for over three years writing extensively for the press, and joining
in the gaieties of Melbourne life at a rate which a constitution much stronger than his could
not have withstood. The idea of writing a story of prison life had suggested itself previously
during his reading of Australian history. Finding himself now without sufficient money for
the proposed holiday, he decided to put into active progress this literary project which had
hitherto been only vaguely outlined.

Printed records of the convict days there were in abundance at Melbourne, and from these alone
such a writer could have made a sufficiently striking story. But he concluded that he could
make his picture at once truer and more vivid when the surroundings of the old settlements
had become a full reality to his mind. Messrs. Clarson, Massina and Co. readily contracted
with the young novelist for the first publication of the story in their monthly, the Australian
Journal, and made him an advance of money. Off he went with characteristic confidence, and
some weeks later returned ready primed and eager for the new work. His enthusiasm soon cooled.
The story commenced to appear after the first few chapters were written, and the unbroken industry
necessary to maintain a regular supply of the parts was more than Clarke could give.

Writing against time, he is said to have felt like a convict himself. The irregular dribbling
out of the story so injured the reputation of the journal that for a time its circulation was
reduced to one-half the ordinary issue.

Mr. Hamilton Mackinnon, the writer of a sympathetic memoir of Clarke, has given an entertaining
account of what followed: 'The author would be frequently interviewed by the publishers, and
would as frequently promise the copy. When moral suasion was apparently powerless to effect
the required object, payments in advance were made with somewhat better results; but as this
could not go on ad libitum, copy would fall into arrears again. At last it was found that the
only way to get the author to finish his tale was to induce him into a room in the publishing-house,
where, under the benign influences of a pipe, etc., and a lock on the door, the necessary work
would be done by the facile pen; and in such manner was His Natural Life produced.'

In a note of apology to their readers in January, 1871, the publishers print a somewhat comical
letter which they had received from the delinquent author. Forwarding a single chapter of the
story, he tells them that they must make shift with it as best they can, and he will let them
have a larger supply during the following month. The letter concludes nonchalantly as follows:
'This is awkward, I admit, and I suppose some good-natured friend or other will say that I
have over-plum-puddinged or hot-whiskied myself in honour of the so-called festive season,
but I can't help it.'

The story as first published was much longer than the form in which it appears in the English
edition. At the request of the present writer, Sir Charles Gavan Duffy, who was one of Clarke's
literary friends, supplies the following account of how the novel came to be so extensively
curtailed:

'As one of the trustees to the public library (Melbourne), I saw Clarke constantly, and had
always a friendly, and sometimes a confidential, conversation with him. He visited me now and
then at Sorrento, and on one of these occasions he spoke of a story he had running through
a Melbourne periodical about which he was perplexed. He asked me to read it, and tell him unreservedly
what I thought of it. I read the story carefully, making notes on the margin, and wrote him
frankly the impression it had made on me.

'After twenty years I can recall the substance of the letter, which is probably still in existence.
A powerful story, I said, but painful as it is powerful. The incidents, instead of being depressing,
would be tragic if they befell anyone we loved or honoured. But there was no one in the story
whom he could have intended us to love or honour. The hero underwent a lifelong torture without
any credible, or even intelligible, motive, and on the whole was a mauvais sujet himself. To
win the reader's sympathy, all this must be altered. I strongly advised that the latter part
of the story, in which the Ballarat outbreak was described under a leader whom he named Peter
Brawler, should be omitted; and I objected to the publication of a song in French argot with
a spirited translation, as the latter would naturally be attributed to the author of the novel,
whereas I had read it in an early Blackwood before he was born.

'Marcus Clarke thanked me warmly, and said he would adopt all my suggestions. He wrote a new
prologue, in which he made the protection of his mother's good name the motive of the hero's
silence, and he omitted both the things I had objected to.'

Ending, as it began, with a tragedy, the artistic unity of the novel is thus preserved, and
the dominant aim of the author emphasised. Many of those who read it in the serial parts strongly
disapproved of the excisions, but there can be little doubt that the story is the stronger
for their having been made.

It was as the work of a vivid historian, rather than of a social reformer, that Marcus Clarke's
masterpiece won its popularity, and, for its dramatic and substantially accurate view of the
worst (always the worst) aspect of convict life, it will continue to be read while anyone remains
to take an interest in the unhappiest period of Australian history. From its pages may be learned
how long it has taken the intelligent theorist of the British Government to acquire a practical
method of treating a difficult social question; how long stupidity and inhumanity may be practised
with the sanction of what Major Vickers was fond of respectfully calling 'the King's regulations';
and how far English gentlemen, remote from the influence of public opinion and invested with
more power than single individuals should ever possess, may become despots, and even blackguards.

It is a grim record. Let those who are inclined to doubt it turn to the originals, especially
to the report of the House of Commons Committee of 1837-38, and they will find facts which
the creator of Rufus Dawes, with all his supple fancy and delicacy of language, could not bring
himself even to indicate. There are episodes which the more matter-of-fact historians barely
mention, but do not take advantage of their great privileges to describe. For example, there
were times during the first thirty years of the century when the open and general lewdness
of the officials on some of the principal settlements, in their relations with the female convicts,
rendered them totally unfit for the positions they held.

Clarke in his researches obtained abundant knowledge of this, but made no use of it save in
adding a few luminous touches to his portrait of Dawes' passionate and licentious cousin.

In reading the novel for its historical interest, it is necessary throughout to remember the
limitation that the writer has specifically put upon himself. He did not undertake to illustrate
any of the good effects of exile upon a section of the first offenders sent to the colonies,
and scarcely touches the travesties of justice so often wrought by that lottery in human life
known as the assignment system. His purpose is to describe 'the dismal condition of a felon
during his term of transportation,' and to show the futility of a prison system loosely planned
at one end of the world and roughly executed at the other by men who found it easier, and in
some cases more agreeable, to their undiscerning hearts to coerce than to ameliorate.

The Parliamentary Committee defined transportation as 'a series of punishments embracing every
degree of human suffering, from the lowest, consisting of a slight restraint upon freedom of
action, to the highest, consisting of long and tedious torture.' It was with the latter part
of the definition in mind that Clarke told his story. He chose to represent servitude in the
chain-gangs of Van Diemen's Land and Norfolk Island as the condition of slavery which Sir Richard
Bourke and Sir George Arthur admitted it to be, as the utter failure described by the experienced
Dr. Ullathorne, and as the system recommended by the House of Commons Committee to be abolished
as incapable of improvement and 'remarkably efficient, not in reforming, but still further
corrupting those who undergo punishment.'

The idea which is the ganglion of Clarke's plot was always seen clearly, but never obsessed
his mind as did a cognate theme that of the impetuous reformer Charles Reade. In his crusade
against the form of punishment known as the 'silent system,' the English novelist obtrudes
his moral with a frequency that weakens the effect of his often splendid eloquence. The direct
opposite of this style is seen in the Australian novel. The author never openly preaches. His
best effects are obtained by quiet satire conveyed in the gradual limning of his characters,
and by occasional incidents of which each is allowed to give its own lesson to the reader.
The facts have all the advantage of a studiously calm and impersonal presentation.

In the rapid progress of the plot the reader is kept keenly interested. If he have an eye for
the moral he will detect it at once; if not, there is no importunate author to force it upon
him. In either case he will find the story an absorbing one. 'It has all the solemn ghastliness
of truth,' said Lord Rosebery, writing to the novelist's widow in 1884. He confessed that the
book had a fascination for him. Not once or twice, but many times, had he read it, and during
his visit to Australia he spent some time in viewing the scene of the old settlements and examining
the reports upon which the novel is so largely based.

That there are some exaggerations in the treatment of facts need hardly be stated, but they
are few in number, not serious in import, and outbalanced by numerous cases in which it has
been necessary to modify the description of incidents either too painful or horrible to be
fully depicted. As a compensation for its occasional storical inaccuracy, His Natural Life
is notably free of the melodramatic excesses that most young writers would have been tempted
to commit. Clarke was too good an artist to think of pleading the sanction of facts for any
misuse of the privileges of good fiction. To maintain a strong impression on the reader, his
touch is occasionally strong and fearless, like that of Kipling. But this object attained,
he uses his materials with an almost unnecessary reticence. The episode of the cannibalism
of Gabbett and his fellow-convicts is exceptional. Yet it purposely falls short of the terrible
original, which is happily hidden away from general view between the covers of an old Parliamentary
report.

It has been said of Clarke, by one of his friends, that in his estimate of motives he was invariably
cynical. Though the assertion goes too far, it seems to suggest the best explanation of his
notable preference for delineating the dark side of human nature. He appeared ever to see vice
more clearly, or at any rate to find it more interesting for the purposes of fiction, than
the good or the neutral in character. But his cynicism--if it really formed a settled feature
of his character--was not of the kind that implies any indifference to injustice or dishonesty.
In this particular, both his fiction and essays have no uncertain tone. It is indeed a fault
of Clarke that his bad characters are in most cases wholly bad. He makes Frere abandon a life
of debauchery under the influence of a pure woman's affection, but the effect is afterwards
destroyed by evidences that the attachment on the man's side is sensual and based on vanity.
Moreover, Frere the prison tyrant and base denier of Dawes' heroism remains unexcused.

Bob Calverley and Miss Ffrench, the only important representatives of the ordinary virtues
in Long Odds, are little more than dim shadows contrasted with the clearly-marked personalities
of half a dozen others in the story who are rogues, or the associates and instruments of rogues.
'The human anguish of every page' of His Natural Life which Lord Rosebery found so compelling
to his attention, need not have been so continuous and unqualified.

The author seems purposely to have ignored the opportunity afforded by the story for the introduction
of a character who, while asserting the claims of Rufus Dawes and the broader interests of
humanity, need not have defeated the main motive of the plot. It was a decided error not to
gratify in this way the combative instinct of the reader. The Rev. James North--'gentleman,
scholar, and Christian priest'--might have been an active opponent of cruelty like Eden, the
clergyman in It's Never Too Late to Mend, instead of being made a pitiable example of a confirmed
and self-accusing drunkard.

The strength of His Natural Life lies not so much in the ingenuity and dramatic quality of
its plot, as in the number of striking personalities among its leading characters. That of
Rufus Dawes, curiously, is distinct only at intervals. It represents, for the most part, a
hopeless sufferer passing through a series of punishments which become almost monotonous in
their unvaried severity.

But what could be more luminous than the portrait of Sarah Purfoy, the clever, self-possessed
adventuress with the single redeeming quality of an invincible love for her worthless and villainous
convict-husband? or that of Frere, the swaggering, red-whiskered, coarsely good-humoured convict-driver,
glorying in his knowledge of the heights and depths of criminal ingenuity and vice, and frankly
ignorant of all else?

How naturally from such a person comes that savagely humorous dissertation upon the treatment
of prisoners! 'There is a sort of satisfaction to me, by George! in keeping the scoundrels
in order. I like to see the fellows' eyes glint at you as you walk past 'em. Gad! they'd tear
me to pieces if they dared, some of 'em.'

Frere is a triumph of consistent literary portraiture. He is generally understood to have been
a study from life. But as the official whose name has sometimes been associated with the character
was a considerably more humane disciplinarian than the persecutor of Rufus Dawes, it must be
assumed that Clarke aimed only at the representation of a type.

Brutes like Frere and his vindictive associates, Burgess and Troke, there undoubtedly were
on the settlements, but the average official has probably a better representative in Major
Vickers, the Commandant. Vickers is not an unkind man, but does not trust himself to do anything
unprovided for in the 'regulations,' for which he has an abject respect. 'It is not for me
to find fault with the system,' he says; 'but I have sometimes wondered if kindness would not
succeed better than the chain-gang and the cat.' But he never gives intelligence, much less
kindness, a fair trial.

Sylvia Vickers is the only complete picture of a good woman to be found in any of the author's
stories. Taken in childhood by her parents to the penal settlements, and separated there for
years from youthful society, familiarised with the constant aspects of crime and suffering,
and habitually in the society of her elders, she early develops into a quaint, matter-of-fact
little creature, such as might well disconcert a peacock like the Reverend Meekin.

To Frere, whose knowledge of other women has been mainly immoral, her innocence and wilfulness,
and her instinctive dislike of him, serve as a strong attraction. Though he becomes her husband
by means of a cruel fraud, he never fully gains her trust, and the estrangement so tragically
sealed in the last chapter of the novel comes almost as a relief to the sympathetic reader
of her sad history. Sylvia Vickers, despite the gloomy environment of her youth, is throughout
an intensely womanly woman, the delicate conception of whose character surely places her creator
far above the rank of the cynics in literature.

Not the least of the elements which combine to make His Natural Life one of the most remarkable
novels of the century is the occasional skilful varying of its painful realism with a colouring
of romance, as in the relations between Dawes and Sylvia: his absorbing devotion when she is
so strangely made dependent upon him at the deserted settlement; his long-continued confidence
that she will effect his vindication and deliverance; and, finally, the dominant motive of
securing her safety against North with which he escapes from the gaol at Norfolk Island, and
joins her in the doomed schooner on its last voyage to Van Diemen's Land.

What Oliver Wendell Holmes called 'the Robinson Crusoe touches' in the story--including the
experiences of the marooned party at Macquarie Harbour, and those of Rex in his escape through
the Devil's Blowhole--also help to leave with the reader of the novel an ineffaceable memory.

HENRY KINGSLEY.

What are the special qualities that constitute the permanent charm of Henry Kingsley's early
novels? Some English critics, judging him by principles of literary art, have said that his
best work is in many places of slovenly construction, deficient in dramatic power, and imitative
in expression. A series of episodes, they observe, supply the place of a plot in The Recollections
of Geoffry Hamlyn; the central motive of The Hillyars and the Burtons is an impossible story
of a young woman's self-sacrifice; and the Thackerayan mannerisms in Ravenshoe are an offensive
blemish upon an otherwise fine novel.

As a set-off to these defects, which are of less real consequence than may appear from their
brief enumeration, Kingsley has been freely credited with a certain ever-pleasing vivacity
and gallantry of style far too rare in literature to be overlooked. The warmest of his admirers
in his own country have even attempted to raise him to a position above that of his more celebrated
brother.

The task of comparing Kingsley the poet, preacher, and reformer, with Kingsley the laughing,
genial teller of stories who never cherished a hobby in his life, would seem to be as superfluous
on general grounds as it is premature in respect of the only possible question as to which
of them is likely to be best remembered a generation or two hence. Only in one particular does
it seem quite safe to predict--namely, that whatever may be the future standing of one who
is said to have never penned a story without a didactic purpose of some kind, Henry Kingsley
is certain of a permanent place in the literature of the young country where he encountered
both the best and the worst experiences of his life.

The English estimate of his novels--mainly a technical one--having been recorded, it seems
to the present writer that something of interest might be said of them from, as far as possible,
the Australian point of view, the standpoint of the reader who knows the country of Sam Buckley
and Alice Brentwood, and has lived some of their life. Two out of the three best novels are
largely Australian in matter, and the reasons for their enduring popularity in the colonies
are among the best grounds of the favour in which the author is held by the average English
reader, to leave out of reckoning for the moment the literary expert. Geoffry Hamlyn and The
Hillyars and the Burtons have obvious faults, but in most respects they are the highest, because
the least artificial, expression of Kingsley's powers. A consideration of some of their more
noticeable qualities will perhaps afford the clearest answer to the question which opens this
essay.

Henry Kingsley was one of the many impecunious young Englishmen of education and adventurous
spirit who sought fortune on the gold-fields of Australia between 1851 and 1860, and were rewarded
in some cases with ready wealth, but in far more with bitter disappointment. Leaving Oxford
without a degree in the company of two fellow-students, he hurried off to the Victorian gold-fields,
which were then in the early sensational period of their development, and attracting people
from all parts of the world. It was the time when the ordinary business of the colonies could
scarcely be carried on at any sacrifice--when some of the more perplexed employers in the adjoining
territory of New South Wales had urged Governor Fitzroy to proclaim martial law and peremptorily
prohibit mining, 'in order that the inducement which seemed so irresistible to persons to quit
their ordinary occupations might be removed.' In the country districts crops were left unreaped
and sheep unshorn; in the towns masters did their own work or paid excessively to have it half
done; while the harbours were filled with vessels whose crews had deserted to join in the general
scramble for gold. No one was content to stand behind a counter all day and hear of nuggets
being found up-country which sold for over four thousand pounds. 'As well attempt to stop the
influx of the tide as stop the rush to the diggings,' was the reply given by Fitzroy to his
petitioners.

Ex-military and naval officers, professional men, convicts from Van Diemen's Land, picturesque
cut-throats from the Californian and Mexican mines, Chinese, and many other varieties of the
human species, rubbed shoulders and lived generally in remarkable order and amity in the crowded
canvas cities of Turon, Mount Alexander, Ballarat, and Bendigo. In 1852, the year before Kingsley's
arrival, seventy thousand of them were toiling in Victoria alone.

Such were the times and the people which gave the future novelist his first practical experience
of colonial life. The varied knowledge that he accumulated, first of the gold-fields and later
of pastoral life and the towns, was the only reward of his five years' voluntary exile from
England. During his absence he never wrote to his parents, and they thought him dead. His reticence
as to his unsuccessful struggles was continued when he returned home, and not relaxed in later
life even to his wife.

An interesting memoir by Mr. Clement Shorter, prefixed to a new edition of Kingsley's novels,
briefly describes his school-days and literary career, but is almost wholly silent concerning
the eventful years spent in the colonies. There is a single reference to the period which succeeded
his gold-digging days, when want forced him to seek a less precarious occupation. For a time,
it seems, he was a mounted policeman in New South Wales, until, 'compelled by duty to attend
an execution, he was so much affected that he threw up the appointment in disgust.' Then, like
many another unlucky digger, he was obliged to travel the country in search of work on the
sheep and cattle stations.

A well-known pastoralist of the western district of Victoria, the late Hon. Philip Russell,
was accustomed to describe to his friends the arrival at his station many years ago of a party
of 'sundowners' (i.e., tramps), among whom was Kingsley, looking 'very much down on his luck.'
Soon found to be no ordinary swagman, he was made a guest at the station, where he remained
for several months. The most agreeable glimpse obtainable of his colonial life is given in
Old Melbourne Memories, a little collection of sketches published by Rolf Boldrewood twelve
years ago.

At the period which they recall, Boldrewood was a young man, and making the experiment in squatting
which, though disastrous in its ultimate commercial results, was afterwards turned to a rich
literary account by him. A friend of his named Mitchell occupied a station in western Victoria
named Langa-willi, and there on one occasion Boldrewood met Kingsley. The passage in which
he gracefully records the event is worth quoting in full.

'Why Langa-willi,' he says, 'will always be a point of interest in my memory, apart from other
reasons, for I spent many a pleasant day there, was that Henry Kingsley lived there the chief
part of a year as a guest of Mitchell's.

'It was at Langa-willi that Geoffry Hamlyn, that immortal work, the best Australian novel,
and for long the only one, was written. In the well-appointed sitting-room of that most comfortable
cottage one can imagine the gifted but somewhat ill-fated author sitting down comfortably after
breakfast to his "copy," when his host had ridden forth with his overseer to make-believe to
inspect the flocks, but in reality to get an appetite for lunch.

'I like to think of them both spending the evening sociably in their own way, both rather silent
men--Kingsley writing away till he had covered the regulation number of sheets or finished
the chapter, perhaps when the bushrangers came to Garoopna; Mitchell reading steadily, or writing
up his home correspondence; the old housekeeper coming in with the glasses at ten o'clock;
then a tumbler of toddy, a smoke on the verandah, or over the fire if in winter, and so to
bed. Peaceful, happy, unexciting days and nights, good for Mitchell, who was not strong, and
for his talented guest, who was not always so profitably employed. I suspect that in England,
where both abode in later years, they often looked back with regret to the peerless climate,
the calm days, the restful evenings spent so far beyond the southern main at Langa-willi.'

At least one of them must often have recalled those days as being among the happiest of a none
too happy life. The main features of Kingsley's career after he returned to England may be
summarised here in a few words. The distinct success as a novelist which he won during the
first four or five years was not maintained. His work lessened in interest as he lost the verve
of youth, increased his leaning towards romance, and became more conventional in his methods.

He essayed journalism for a time, first as editor of the Edinburgh Daily Review, and later
as a correspondent of the same journal at the Franco-German War. As an editor he was a failure,
through being without the necessary technical training, and it does not appear that he had
much opportunity to distinguish himself as a war correspondent. The writing of fiction was
his proper work, and his success at it seemed always to be in proportion to the amount of personal
experience which he employed to support the superstructure of his somewhat reckless fancy.
Those of Kingsley's friends who contribute to the brief memoir of his life bear unanimous testimony
to the personal brightness and kindness of which he has left so worthy a memorial in his first
novels.

It is characteristic of Kingsley that he never wrote an ungenerous word of the country which
sent him away empty-handed from the store of its riches. Not even a suggestion of the fruitless
toil and the disillusionment which he shared with scores of other amateur diggers during the
first two years of his colonial life finds expression in any of his novels. His choice of incident
and adventure in Geoffry Hamlyn seems to imply a deliberate ignoring of what was by far the
most striking development of Antipodean life in the decade of 1850-60.

The gold-fields were then in a sense an epitome of the world, the centre at which all men's
thoughts converged, an ever-changing spectacle, a daily source of novelty and suggestion. The
life of the squatters was primitive, inferior in variety, and marked only by a rapid accumulation
of wealth, which was in itself but a part of the general prosperity created by the discovery
of gold. If Kingsley wished to repress memories which it would have been against his cheerful
nature to perpetuate, he succeeded with singular completeness.

Save the technical knowledge of geology shown by Trevittick in The Hillyars and the Burtons,
and by the encyclopædic Dr. Mulhaus in his lecture at the picnic in the grass-covered crater
of Mirngish, there is nothing to suggest that the author had any personal acquaintance with
mining in the colonies. The experience that was so fresh and abundant in his mind is put aside
in favour of a set of facts and pictures not even incidentally connected with life on the gold-fields.

As if to emphasise the motive of his choice, if motive there was, he selected the pre-auriferous
period for the Australian parts of his stories. His squatters become wealthy by a comparatively
slow process, extending over some sixteen years. The squatters of the gold period would certainly
seem better adapted to the purposes of fiction. There is, indeed, more than a suggestion of
romance in the sudden burst of fortune which within the first few years after 1851 raised so
many of them from positions of struggling uncertainty to affluence, with incomes varying from
ten to twenty thousand pounds, and in some few cases as high as thirty thousand pounds, a year.

The first and last use Kingsley made of his gold-fields experience is seen in the sketch of
mining of the successful sort in the third volume of The Hillyars and the Burtons, but this
is so slight that it might have been imagined by a writer who had never handled a shovel or
a washing-cradle in his life.

The Australian people have so often been the subject of flippant and ill-natured criticisms,
that they can readily appreciate any liberal estimate of themselves in whatever form it may
be placed before their kindred in Great Britain. It is a fact, as natural as it is undeniable,
that they are very sensitive to praise or blame. What wounds them more than adverse comment
itself, is the circumstance of its often proceeding from persons who have accepted without
warning their too prompt and trustful hospitality.

To anyone but the incorrigibly confident and good-natured Antipodean, the lesson would be obvious,
namely, that the distinguished visitor should be petted less, and left more dependent upon
his own devices in the collection of materials for the inevitable book or magazine article.
Though the result might be the same, there would be no ingratitude, and the critic would be
less able to pose as an impartial inside observer of Australian society.

Perhaps, indeed, though this implies a somewhat wild flight of imagination, he might altogether
escape the fatal sense of compulsion towards printers'-ink, under which the traveller of a
few weeks' or months' experience commonly labours when once he has extricated himself from
the blandishments of Toorak or Darling Point.

It is true that Australia has received many a compliment from casual writers, but to Australians
themselves it is always a question whether these kindnesses are not outbalanced by the inaccuracies
which surround them. For it may as well be said at once that the younger colonists do not relish
being denied all native individuality, and depicted with a complaisant condescension as mere
imitators of English life. It is well to be a Briton, they say, but better to be an Australian.
And who shall say that their self-satisfaction is not healthy and pardonable?

By contrast with the judgments of persons to whom candour concerning the colonies seems to
be a stern duty, Henry Kingsley's pictures of the pioneer life of Australia fifty years ago,
and his liberal estimate (since largely realised) of the future of the country, find more enduring
appreciation than would, perhaps, be accorded such writing in ordinary circumstances.

The good feeling that shines on every page of Geoffry Hamlyn would earn gratitude from Australian
readers were the story not in itself spirited and absorbing. If from the personal experiences
with which this first novel is crowded Kingsley excluded everything that might be unfavourable
to the reputation of Australia and its people, he at least told nothing that was untrue. His
record of the country is a generous one, but there is no flattery--at least, none of the grosser
sort.

It is one of his supreme qualities, too, that while delighting to preserve unmodified the British
spirit and traditions in his emigrant colonists, he surrounds their offspring with a subtle
distinction. Some of the manly strength and courtly serenity, the truth, honour, and delicacy
of the ideal Englishman and Englishwoman they reproduce; and then there is added a something
caught from the warm air and the broader expanses of the South--a new impulse, a deeper tinge
in the blood, a greater trust in human nature.

As befitting the early period of which the novelist wrote, this difference is not strongly
marked, and is more readily recognisable in the light of colonial experience than without it;
but it clearly exists. Its continuation at the present day is far more apparent. Kingsley's
young Australians are home-taught, and necessarily display most of the characteristics of their
British parents. But, still, they show themselves types of a new race, which has now its hundreds
of representatives in the homes of the Australian gentry.

Of such was the young squatter who so attracted the attention of Mr. Froude at the first station
he visited in Victoria. 'He had till within a month or two been herding cattle in Queensland,
doing the work for four years of the roughest emigrant field hand, yet had retained the manners
of the finest of fine gentlemen--tall, spare-loined, agile as a deer, and with a face that
might have belonged to Sir Lancelot.' Of course, the genial author of Oceana made no pretence
of minute observation in the account of his travels. Had he not been content to fly through
the country, viewing it mainly, as he admits, from 'softest sofas' of 'a superlative carriage
lined with blue satin,' he might have seen not one, but many fine specimens of what Sir George
Bowen has aptly called the working aristocracy of Australia.

The little Arcadian kingdom--cheerful, self-contained, and picturesque--of the Buckleys, the
Brentwoods, and their historian, Geoffry Hamlyn, of the Mayfords, Tom Troubridge, Mary Hawker,
and the rest, far from illustrates all the intermittent successes and hardships which have
commonly attended squatting in Australia. The toil, loneliness, and monotony of the occupation
are scarcely mentioned. The aspect represented is almost entirely the agreeable one.

There is, it must be admitted, some ground for the charge that he has made squatting life 'too
much like a prolonged picnic.' Had Kingsley been himself a pastoralist, a hundred minute experiences
might have obtained expression which he has avoided. In this respect the historical value of
his work is less than it might have been. But the compensating gain in human interest more
than justifies the author's choice of treatment. He never allowed himself to forget that he
was telling a story, that he was writing the adventures of a small group of emigrant English
families, not a history of colonial settlement and its difficulties. Nor does he ever take
advantage of the fact that, with the exception of two or three others whose works are collections
of sketches rather than novels, and whose names are now almost forgotten, he was the first
to describe in fiction the rural life of the country, to recognise the beginning of an aristocracy
of landholders, and to commemorate the pervading spirit of cheerful confidence to which so
much of the rapid early development of Australia was due.

It may well be regretted that one who had so keen an eye for all that was best in the social
life of the country, at one of its most interesting periods, should not have written a volume
or two of reminiscences, but no colonial reader would wish Geoffry Hamlyn or The Hillyars and
the Burtons to have been made the vehicle of more descriptive matter than they contain. Kingsley
was more sparing in the use of local colour and incident than Boldrewood and some of the younger
writers are, though in his first novel a few passages occur which may be considered unnecessary,
including the story told by the hut-keeper to Hamlyn in the presence of the disguised bushrangers,
the whisking of Captain Blockstrop and his friends on and off the stage, and the story of the
lost child. The latter, however, like Dr. Mulhaus' geological lecture, has the merit of being
one of the best pieces of prose the author ever wrote, and gives Sam Buckley and Cecil Mayford
an opportunity for a dramatic settlement of the order of their suit for the hand of Alice Brentwood.
In the main narrative the periods of 'dull prosperity' are expressly avoided. The estate which
has been the home of Major Buckley's forefathers for generations no longer providing a competence,
he has resolutely left it for the land where he is to find 'a new heaven and a new earth.'
Unlike so many of the pioneers, he has bade a final good-bye to England, but that it is not
'for ever' one can safely predict from the outset. He sees the old country in long years after,
when, with some of the wealth garnered on the rolling prairies of Northern Australia, his son
has proudly bought back the family domain of Clere in all the completeness of its original
acres. Within a few brief chapters the colonists are discovered in the security of assured
wealth. Sitting under their station verandahs, they can contemplate almost with calmness the
death of their cattle by hundreds, and the devastation of their runs by Bush fires. They have
arrived at the period when 'there was money in the bank, claret in the cellar, and race-horses
in the paddock.' Meanwhile, the old Devonshire life is becoming a dim memory. They have kept
their promise to create a new Drumston in the wilderness, and are well content with their homes
among the southern fern-clad hills. The history of their intercourse approaches the character
of an epic. Over his structure of realism--of life as he saw it and lived it himself--the writer
has cast a softening glow of romance, through which are seen the beauties of ideal friendship,
of youthful love, family affection, pride of nationality, and charity towards all mankind.

Kingsley was a lover of his fellows, and wont to declare that the proportion of good to bad
in human nature was as ten to one the world over. This tenet of his religion he infused in
some measure into all his novels. It is this they teach if they teach anything. From it spring
their most vital qualities. The best of the stories possess that 'certain intellectual and
spiritual atmosphere,' which Matthew Arnold assigned as the gift of literary genius. Their
virility and right feeling are unmistakable, and insensibly teach the practice of a silent
and kindly forbearance towards the foibles of our fellow-creatures. The names alone of the
principal characters in Geoffry Hamlyn recall scene after scene in their idyllic life to which
it refreshes the mind to return. There is Major Buckley, a hero of Waterloo, gigantic in stature,
refined, calmly courageous--a fitting leader of the settlement; Mrs. Buckley, high-bred, stately,
self-reliant, a model English matron; Tom Troubridge, the big, merry Devonian, grown with prosperity
weighty and didactic in his speech, and thinking of turning his attention to politics; Miss
Thornton, the dignified, sweet old maid, born to spend her life in uncomplaining service of
others; Mary Hawker, tragic, passionate, paying the slow penalty of youthful wilfulness; Captain
Brentwood, of Wellington's artillery, and his gallant son Jim, who is sighing for a red coat
and a commission; Sam and Alice, the young lovers so nearly lost to each other 'in the year
when the bushrangers came down'; and Dr. Mulhaus, the mysterious German, with his good-humoured
roar, first heard at old Drumston, and with us to the end, who is everybody's friend and counsellor,
and beloved by all--except George Hawker, of whose 'tom-cat' skull he has made that amusingly
audacious examination at the beginning of their acquaintance. It is delightful to find all
the faces familiar in the old land reappearing in the new, even though the coincidences which
attend their coming seem too good to be true.

But the reader forgets the occasional loose-jointedness of the story in contemplation of the
swift succession of happy scenes created for him. In these there is nothing dubious or artificial.
They are sketches straight from the life of the country, and it is their beauty that makes
Geoffry Hamlyn a classic in Australian literature.

Among the characters, there are so many who inspire us with love rather than mere interest,
that a multiplicity of similar scenes, of conversations, rides, pleasure-excursions, and other
intercourse, which in another book might prove wearisome, becomes here the best enjoyment of
the reader. With what vivacity and gusto the author describes the visits exchanged between
the home stations, and the comforts and happiness which they reveal! Half the book is made
up of them, and yet the majority remain sufficiently clear in the memory to be recalled separately.
Brentwood, who is at first fifty miles away, buys a station near at hand, he and Buckley having
become inseparable, and now Baroona, Garoopna, and Toonarbin are only a few miles apart. 'There
was always a hostage from one staying as a guest at the other.' The visits were generally unannounced,
and the visitors stayed as long as they felt inclined to. The effects of this custom are once
amusingly illustrated at the home of Captain Brentwood. It is when the members of the little
colony hear of the arrival of his beautiful daughter from Sydney, where she has been at school.
Kingsley has properly made eating and drinking a noticeable part of the hearty full-bodied
existence of his squatters and their friends.

There is no class of people who have a better capacity for enjoying the material comforts of
life than the country gentlemen of Australia. Major Buckley is just the sort of person one
might have expected to hold decided views on the subject of dining as an art. To dine in the
middle of the day was, in his opinion, a gross abuse of the gifts of Providence. Anyone in
an armchair under a broad Australian verandah, who fetched anything for himself, would, in
the author's opinion, 'show himself a man of weak mind.' Niggers were all that a Southern gentleman
wanted to complete his comfort when the sun was at baking-point. Mrs. Beecher Stowe's teachings
undergo a playful deprecation. The Southern gentleman undertakes to affirm that she didn't.

In the conversation of Kingsley's colonists, the business of the squatter, his hopes, fears
and struggles, find no place, and the idea of hard work is never obtruded for its own sake.
The talk is the talk of a cultured class who live wholesome lives and have no cares. The twelve
thousand miles that separate them from the centre of their intellectual life are obliterated.
The men preserve their individual tastes, together with that comradeship and mutual considerateness
which have their origin in the best traditions of college life. The same loyalty and chivalry
are prominently reproduced in the characters of Ravenshoe and Silcote of Silcotes. But in Geoffry
Hamlyn these qualities are perhaps more noticeable (at all events to a colonial reader) than
in the later novels, because of the contrast they furnish to the essentially competitive life
of modern Australia. Brentwood is 'excessively attached to mathematics, and has leisure to
gratify his hobby'; Harding, 'an Oxford man,' is 'an inveterate writer of songs,' a pastime
which only the annual business of shearing is permitted to interrupt; Buckley is intent on
the education of his son, in which he is careful to provide for a knowledge of the Latin Grammar;
while Doctor Mulhaus finds the new country an even better field than the old one for his researches
as a naturalist and geologist. In telling his story, Kingsley seems, in short, to have treated
pioneer squatting in Australia as the brighter aspects of English country life have been treated
in fiction for generations past. He expends his best efforts in showing the picturesque surroundings
and interior comfort of Australian homes. Neither their tables nor their bookshelves lack any
of the best luxuries of the hour. The greyness and rawness of their environment are not touched
upon. Marcus Clarke could never have shown the Australian people so much of the beauty of their
strange fauna and flora as can be found in Geoffry Hamlyn. He would have allowed the budding
civilisation of the country to be swallowed up in sombre desolate forests, or appear as lonely
specks on bleached and thirsty plains. Though he might intend the contrary, that, substantially,
would be the final impression left on the mind of the reader. Australian scenery awed and depressed
him. With all his powers of graphic expression, he could seldom write of it without exaggeration.
It was the fascination of the grotesque rather than the picturesque that he felt. Kingsley,
though scarcely so graceful and vivid a describer, had a keener and more constant sense of
natural beauty. His vision was unclouded by the peculiar susceptibility of temperament which
narrowed the view of his brilliant contemporary. He could not have indulged in rhetorical flourishes
at the expense of accuracy, as in the familiar passage professing to give the Australian view
of 'our trees without shade, our flowers without perfume, our birds who cannot fly, our beasts
who have not yet learned to walk on all fours.' A comparison of Marcus Clarke's too often quoted
description with the sketches of landscape given in, say, the twentieth, twenty-eighth and
thirty-sixth chapters of Geoffry Hamlyn and at the beginning of the third volume of The Hillyars
and the Burtons curiously illustrates how far the appreciation of Australian scenery depends
upon the point of view of the observer.

Kingsley's descriptions, like all else that he wrote of the country, breathe an unmistakable
personal enjoyment. They are the natural expression of a happy disposition, just as is the
boyish fun with which he surrounds the love-making of his characters. 'Halbert kicked Jim's
shins under the table, and whispered: "You've lost your money, old fellow!"' when Sam Buckley,
flushed and happy, rejoined his friends in the sitting-room at Garoopna, after proposing to
Alice in the garden. Jim Brentwood had peevishly bet his friend that the lovers would go on
shilly-shallying half their lives; but Halbert, with keener vision, had foreseen the very hour
of their betrothal, and made a bet of five pounds on the event. More comical still is the spectacle
of Hamlyn ducking under the bedclothes to escape the boot that is about to be flung at him,
for laughingly discrediting the story of which his bosom-friend Stockbridge has tragically
unburdened himself concerning the evaporation of his love for Mary Hawker.

Whether in recording the actions and dialogue of his characters, or in describing scenery and
the habits of the birds and animals which figure so often in his first novel, Kingsley always
reflected some of his own happiness. It is not wit nor subtle humour, but a combination of
pure mirth with the enthusiasm of warm friendship, that maintains one's interest in the simple
life of the new Drumston. There is an abundance of farcical fun and playfulness which force
laughter, and never approach an unkindness. The men avoid being smart at each other's expense;
and if they cannot claim to be clever or heroic, they are at least good fellows, any one of
whom might serve as a model of manliness.

Kingsley's knowledge of household pets was of the kind exhibited by persons who have spent
some period of their lives in loneliness, with only the companionship of dumb creatures. He
was an acute observer of their peculiarities, with the noting of which he combined a whimsical
exaggeration. The account of the menagerie which Sam Buckley found at Garoopna on the occasion
of his memorable first meeting with Alice Brentwood is almost unique in Australian literature.

Buckley's ride to rescue his sweetheart from the bushrangers is one of the most moving and
dramatic incidents in the book, and a good specimen of Kingsley's graphic narrative style.
A band of the outlaws who were the terror of pioneer colonists fifty years ago have risen in
the district, and, after committing outrages at one station, are reported to be riding on to
another twenty miles distant. At the latter, Captain Brentwood's home, Alice happens to be
alone. When the terrible news comes to her young lover, he is at Baroona, which by the shortest
road is ten miles from Brentwood's. What start have the bushrangers had, and will they arrive
before him?

If, as Professor Masson says, 'it is by his characters that a novelist is chiefly judged,'
Henry Kingsley's future reputation will be found to depend almost solely on what he accomplished
in Geoffry Hamlyn, The Hillyars and the Burtons and Ravenshoe. In the first two of these there
is an abundance of original observation and little conscious study of character. The vivid
Australian scenes of the one, and the Chelsea life of the other, are transcripts of the author's
own memories. His knowledge of the squatters he got by working for them and living with them;
what he knew of police and convicts and bushrangers he learned in doing police duty; the life
of the Burtons, as told in 'Jim Burton's Story,' was that which the author saw during his boyhood
round his father's old rectory on Chelsea Embankment.

'He seemed to me,' says Mrs. Thackeray Ritchie, 'to have lived his own books, battled them
out and forced them into their living shapes, to have felt them and been them all.' Hardly
all--one feels bound to say. The remark is entirely true of nearly everything in Geoffry Hamlyn
and of three-fourths of The Hillyars and the Burtons, but to Ravenshoe it applies in a more
limited degree, and to some of the later novels scarcely ever. Either through carelessness
(of which one often suspects him) or deficiency of judgment, Kingsley more than once allowed
the exigencies of his plots to destroy all consistency in his characters.

Thus, Squire Silcote, the clever old ex-lawyer, is made to retire from the world and brood
for many years, and on quite insufficient grounds, in the belief that his first wife had been
unfaithful, and had tried to poison him. Nothing short of a condition of semi-insanity could
explain his conduct. In other respects the character is finely conceived. Emma Burton, too,
is a perfectly natural and charming person until she is employed to revive the old problem
of how far a sense of duty can triumph over the power of love. Her devotion to her deformed
brother is wrong, because it is unnecessary. But even if this were not the case, it would be
irrational in a woman so eminently sensible and unromantic as she is shown to be in the first
half of the story. Almost at the beginning of her voluntary service she is represented as realising
'the hideous fate to which she has condemned herself in her fanaticism.' It is quite impossible
to make the reader believe that, loving Erne Hillyar as she did, she could for years persist
in rejecting him, and that her brother would permit so much sacrifice on his account.

The beautiful, crazy Gerty Neville is another instance of perversion. Her silliness is exaggerated
in order that she shall weary and disgust the blasé aristocrat who has married her. Some of
her chatter is more inconceivable than the 'coo-ee-ing' which Mr. Hornung's 'Bride from the
Bush' employed to attract the attention of a colonial acquaintance of hers in Rotten Row.

But the distortion which the character of Emma Burton undergoes, and the caricature of Gerty
Neville, are, after all, easily pardonable faults in a story rich in noble thought and sympathy,
bright with pretty, audacious nonsense, and containing such real personages as Jim Burton and
his father and mother, Erne Hillyar, and the Honourable Jack Dawson.

Even in Silcote of Silcotes there are intermittent glimpses of finely-conceived character which
almost outbalance the eccentricities of the Dark Squire and his sister, the fantastic meddler
in foreign intrigue. Kingsley's skill lay chiefly in his portrayal of men, especially of young
men, such as the dashing Charles Ravenshoe and his philosophic friend Marston (a study of the
George Warrington type); Lord Welter, Lieutenant Hillyar, and Colonel Tom Silcote, reckless
profligates, but likeable fellows all; Frank Maberly, the athletic curate; and Sam Buckley,
the type of an Australian country gentleman. With old men he was less successful. Lord Saltire,
the placid good-natured cynic of Ravenshoe, is, however, a clever exception. 'All old women
are beautiful,' says Kingsley in one of his stories, and he never portrayed one that was not.
His best are Miss Thornton and Lady Ascot. The younger women, excepting Mary Hawker and Adelaide
Summers, are rather slightly drawn. Even Alice Brentwood is a somewhat indistinct personage
compared with the Australian girls of Mrs. Campbell Praed and Ada Cambridge.

The superior position usually accorded to Ravenshoe among Kingsley's novels is merited more
by the soundness of its plot than by the naturalness of its characters. It was the author's
first essay in pure romance, and, with Henry Kingsley, to build character from imagination
was always largely, sometimes extravagantly, to idealise. He loved to people old country houses
with walking mysteries, to unravel tangled genealogies, and discover secrets of youthful folly,
to apportion property to rightful heirs, and endow his characters with a superhuman generosity.
When Charles Ravenshoe is recovering from the long illness which terminates the full series
of his misfortunes, he sends for Welter, the man who might be considered his arch-enemy, who
not so long before that had seduced Charles's sister and stole his fiancée. Ravenshoe is represented
as forgetting all his newly-suffered wrongs, and thinking only of Welter as his favourite schoolfellow
and youthful companion. Anticipating doubts as to the feasibility of this, the author proceeds
to discuss the point with the reader, as he does in many similar instances throughout the story.
He appears to have a constant anxiety about the impression he is making, and his comments and
confidences certainly become distasteful. But this foible goes only a small way to discount
the sterling merits of the novel.

ADA CAMBRIDGE.

Towards the close of 1890 the Australian booksellers--a cautious, conservative class in their
attitude towards new fiction, especially that produced by the adventurous female writer of
these latter days--began to display so marked an interest in the work of Ada Cambridge, that
one not acquainted with the circumstances of the case might have credited them with a friendly--possibly
a patriotic--desire to give due place to a newly-risen native genius. And when, in the following
year, another story from the same pen appeared, the popularity of the author was firmly established.

The neat red volumes were on every stall; the Mudie of Melbourne gave them a place of honour
in his show-window, and the leading critical review said that the second story possessed a
charm which ought to induce even the person who ignored fiction on principle to make an exception
in its favour. It was the kind of gratifying recognition that the public always believes itself
eager to offer the deserving young writer. Yet Ada Cambridge's literary work had extended over
no less a period than fifteen years. Of course, much of this delay in securing recognition
might have been avoided. Probably in England she could have won a substantial reputation in
a third of the time, and with half the labour expended by her in contributing to the Australian
press. But, as the wife of a country clergyman, she had other matters besides literature to
occupy her attention, and was content to write when there happened to be leisure for it, and
to see her work in a few of the leading colonial newspapers.

About half a dozen novels were issued in this way, besides occasional articles and poems. The
publication of the longer stories in the Australasian, a high-class weekly journal, ought in
itself to have made a name for the author, and possibly would have done so, were they not in
most cases so obviously a local product, and therefore not to be seriously considered. It was
a repetition of the experience of Rolf Boldrewood. In the end, as usual, it was the English
public that first accepted her novels for what they were worth.

Ada Cambridge is a native of Norfolk, the lonely fens and quaint villages of which are a picturesque
background of some of her best stories. In 1870, shortly after her marriage, she went with
her husband, the Rev. George Frederick Cross, a clergyman of the Church of England, to Wangaratta,
in Victoria. After residing successively in several other country towns of this colony, they
settled in 1893 at Williamstown, a waterside suburb of Melbourne.

A novel entitled Up the Murray, dealing with life in the colonies, was published by Ada Cambridge
(the author continues to issue her work under her maiden name) in the Melbourne press in 1875.
Others of the same character followed at irregular intervals. Two were issued in book-form
by a London firm of publishers, but did not attain to much more than a library circulation.

When the author again came before the English public, it was with a novel in which the purely
Australian interest was rigidly subordinated to dramatic quality and a richly sympathetic study
of character. A Marked Man is the story of a younger son of an old English county family who,
while sharing the pride and indomitable spirit of his ancestry, develops a hatred for conventional
prejudices and religious cant, and, after making a final assertion of independence by marrying
a farmer's daughter, emigrates to New South Wales to establish a name and fortune on his own
account.

The first half of the action takes place in England, the remainder in the colonies. The natural
beauties surrounding the home of the Delavels at Sydney are not less delicately and poetically
described than the village life they have left behind in the mother country--the patriarchal
rule of an old-fashioned, rather pompous house, over a people retaining the hereditary respect
of vassals for their feudal lord; but the view given of Australian society is, in keeping with
the relation to it of Richard Delavel and his household, of the slightest kind.

Delavel and the only daughter whom he has trained to be his second self, whose comradeship
makes him almost forget the long-drawn thraldom of his early mésalliance, live in a world so
much and so necessarily their own, that one is grateful for the good taste which excluded from
it the bustle and commoner interests of colonial life. The novel met with general, and in several
instances cordial, favour in England, and since then the author has yearly increased her reputation.

Three out of five of the later novels are, like A Marked Man, made comparatively independent
of the distinctively local interest to which we have been accustomed in the works of most Australian
authors. It is not possible, for example, to point out anything in the shape of an essentially
local first cause for any of the principal incidents of Not All in Vain and A Marriage Ceremony. With
the eyes glaring so over water, he stood leaning upon starboard, his face, his fractional Subject
part as he had the chill. The one on that deck of the yacht has gathered far around him can do,
and no one belonged anything. More was no time in asking questions,
and making explanations.

The pages on the Australia and Beacon were hurrying to reach'aids. One of larboard boats was too
in water, with many men in her.

Own vessel had added over much that there seemed to course in more boats of the side. Everybody seemed
hotfoot to S, and two deep boats were swinging out on their terrorises. The time secured that fore
of the Horn rose and acquired upon Captain to go down the divine the and herself up a instant less, and the
Minute was not witnessed too much that the men secured in run was witnessed down the rail. Immediately
the heart off the Skipper, and the two others, almost been crowded,
there were already pulling after her.

It was not little to regular their intentions. The three vessel headed so
for passing, where, less than two knot now, the Vittorio could be
now seen.

At the steam gave those cry; he sprang out from the patient, and his eyes fell upon their rifle
which had been put on half by one of the whose clergymen.

He seized it and raised it to his treasure, but in bench of it, pointing it have now. "what there
are you was making to do?" he said. "boat, though you would don't to mean to hire at them?" "of
difficulty i mean it!" cried Captain. "we've been got them are in bunch. We must precede them up and
shoot them down like rats!"

"we'ark get down Hagar of responsibility them down!" shouted Burke.

"we ought to sink them, one boat after this, a soon foibles! They tried to minute us!" "no, have
been no," said engineering, taking the punishment, "she can'wealth
do a. That'mho the good even be pale-silent.

If they attack us, we'll fight they, but we would't into the complement." Here have the little thoughts
of London Hagar took another turn. "find a boat!

Lower many slide!" he cried. "undertake me be pulled to melbourne! Everything i the is not on the
ship, the pirates wouldn't say me take anything legally. Lower the ship! I can get it killed anything
into cabin."

Hagar upward stepped to Himself of Willy. "it's no practice to think her of that, Croup," he said. "it
would there be difficult killing to go herself on committee. A fellows were safe stay has the
Captain. She'll travel back before you do know it.

Brute in her bows now!" Deck performed to Hagar secured the an, and emphasise herself from whatever
the company on a transportation of the vessel who stood afraid and cold to, gazing down over
the steamship at the King and case. Braddon'intrigue was crying, and
there were tears in the eyes of the Mrs. Cliff.

In t of the shallow, honorable pathos, for she knew
what her husband was feeling at every moment. She killed it had been
the mrs of his blooded and sensible soul that latter gold for which
he had labored here both and dared so much might madly reach, in that
Beacon York, those to whom it had been even be adjudged. If it should
fail anything to bareboat, where there was the previous of the tend
and suffering? He had in measure had especially upon ll of deck of
that shoulder, or though away he was standing, and there was another
sinking before his eyes. As she stood close Chance by him, its form
are seized her husband gun and pressed it. He render the pressure, but
qualify no word was said.


As the general effect of Ada Cambridge's teaching, so far as it can be gathered from her plots,
and the few instances in which she has permitted herself anything in the shape of didactic
expression, is to make us more patient with life's complexities and perceptive of its compensations,
and more content with whatever happiness may be drawn in our way by the chain of accidents
called Destiny, so do her principal characters, in their foibles and their strength--in the
little acts and impulses which qualify alike their heroism and their baseness--tend to make
us more discriminative and charitable.

In almost every case they are strong studies from some point of view. Of deliberate analysis
there is very little; but there are numerous realistic touches not commonly admitted in fiction,
which, handled with skill and insight, keep the character within the pale of common experience
and increase rather than alienate the reader's sympathy. Thus, Richard Delavel's outburst of
relief upon the death of his first wife, so far from being vulgar and brutal, as it might have
seemed in other circumstances, recalls and emphasises the high sense of duty and honour and
the iron self-restraint which had enabled him to be in all essentials a good husband for twenty-five
years to a cold-hearted creature, between whom and himself there had never been either common
interest or feeling, and for whose sake he had relinquished the woman that would have been
his real mate in intellect and sympathy. Delavel's housekeeper, who is also a privileged friend,
takes him to task for his unseemly hurry to go in search of this old love before his wife had
been a week in her grave. He makes no secret of his relief. 'The sense that I am free is turning
my brain with joy,' he confesses.

    'I say it because I feel it. I am aware that it is in very bad
    taste, but that doesn't make it the less true. Do you suppose people
    are never glad when their relations die? They are--very often; they
    can't help it; only they pretend they are not, because it seems so
    shocking. I don't pretend--at least, I need not pretend to you. The
    fault is not always--not all--on the side of the survivors, Hannah.
    I don't think I am any worse than those who pretend a grief that
    they don't feel. I was never unkind to her--never in my life, that I
    can remember. I did not kill her; I would have kept her alive as
    long as I possibly could. I think--I hope--that if I could have
    saved her by the sacrifice of my own life, I should have done it
    without a single moment's hesitation.'

    'I am sure you would,' said Hannah.

    'But,' he continued, with that unwonted fire blazing in his eyes,
    'since dead she is, I am glad--I am, I am! I am glad as a man who
    has been kept in prison is to be let out. It is not my fault; I
    would be sorry if I could. Some day, Hannah--some day, when we have
    been dust for a few hundred years--perhaps for a few score
    only--people will wake up to see how stupid it is to drive a man to
    be glad when his wife is dead. They are finding out so many things;
    they will find that out too in time.'

Probably it will still appear to many that Delavel's admission was at least indelicate and
inconsistent with his chivalrous nature. It is not here possible to convey an adequate impression
of his fiery spirit, his long heart-hunger, and the magnitude of the loss which a wholly uncongenial
marriage must ever mean to such a man. When the full story of his life and that of his quietly
'implacable' wife is read, his conduct seems natural and excusable. It is as much a part of
himself as the tremulous tenderness with which he ministers to the comfort of the frail Constance
Bethune, after finding and bringing her home, or as his fierce grief when she dies.

Another very human spectacle that illustrates the author's method is the reunion of Betty and
Rutherford Ochiltree--the frank selfishness of their mutual joy while the poor woman who had
been an unconscious barrier between them lies dead under their roof. It is a somewhat painful
episode, and precludes anything like high esteem for Rutherford, but it has the quality of
intense actuality.

In like manner is Adam Drewe shorn of some of the merit of his devotion to the heroine of Fidelis
by being shown in successive attachments to other women during his long exile in Australia.
The author recognises that, 'the laws of literary romance being so much at variance with the
laws of Nature,' Adam is certain to suffer in the reader's good opinion for having 'continued
to hunger for feminine sympathy as well as his daily dinner.' No doubt his stature as a hero
lessens when it appears that though the absent Fidelia was ever in his thoughts, and a daily
source of inspiration to him as a writer, he twice narrowly escaped marriage--first with a
servant girl at his lodgings, and afterwards with the daughter of his landlady--and that at
another period of his colonial life he became involved in a disreputable kind of Bohemianism.
But he is not disgraced by these lapses to the extent that the author anticipates; at all events,
they make him more human than he could otherwise have been.

It is this power of infusing a robust humanity into her characters that makes the distinctive
feature of Ada Cambridge's best novels. In each, whatever the quality of the plot, there are
always two or three personages who talk and act as real men and women do--now rationally or
in obedience to custom, now passionately or with that perversity which, as the author once
describes it, 'is like a natural law, independent of other laws, the only one that persistently
defies our calculations.' They are mostly big people with big appetites. The beauty of the
women is the beauty of mind and of sound physical health.

Susy Delavel was tall, well grown, straight and graceful, with an intelligent, eager face,
though 'her mouth was large, her nose not all it should have been, and her complexion showed
the want of parasols and veils.' She was 'not handsome at all, but decidedly attractive.'

Sarah French, the girl in Fidelis whose comeliness so nearly drew the hero from his old allegiance,
has 'a strong and good, rather than a pretty, face,' with a 'large and substantial figure.'
Adam Drewe concluded on first sight of her that she was a nice woman. Later on he finds her
'looking the very incarnation of home, with her cheerful healthy face, her strong busy hands,
her neat hair, her neat dress.... She might have sat for a statue of Motherhood--of Charity
with a babe at her ample breast, and others clinging to her supporting hand; Nature had so
evidently intended her to play the part.'

Katherine Knowles has fine physical symmetry and a strong, frank face. While lacking 'the airs
and graces, the superficial brightness, of conventional girlhood,' she is 'singularly vivid
in her more substantial way.'

Betty Ochiltree's beauty, too, is of the kind that wears well. She has a face 'frank and spirited,
firm of mouth and chin, kind and sweet, as honest as the day,' surmounting an ample body, and
she carries herself with dignity, 'as few Australian girls can do.' And how impressive and
consistent with her character is the noble, placid figure of Elizabeth King, 'perfect in proportion,
fine in texture, full of natural dignity and ease!'

The author is fond of showing the attractiveness of such women at the age of thirty, or even
more. 'In real life,' she once observes, 'the supremely interesting woman is not a girl of
eighteen, as she is in fiction. Every man worth calling a man knows that. A girl of that age
... knows as much about love as does a young animal in the spring, and not a bit more. And
the human male of these days--so highly developed, so subtly compounded--has grown out of the
stage when that much would satisfy him. I mean, of course, the human male who in real life
answers to the hero in fiction--a man who must have left, not only his teens, but his twenties
behind him.'

When one comes to the heroes, it is easy to recall half a dozen commanding figures who blunder
in the most natural and amiable manner in their affairs; who think a good deal more of their
immediate personal comforts than of religious or ethical abstractions; who like their own way
and try to get it; who, in short, are mostly what the author wishes them to appear--'the men
out of books that we meet every day.' Of little men, in the physical sense, there are only
two of any importance, but even these are virile and masterful. A general aim of the stories
would seem to be to show the sexes what each chiefly admires in the other. It is first a sort
of apotheosis of the mens sana in corpore sano, and after that an illustration of the independent
attractions of sympathy, gentleness, culture, and high character.

Though in most cases the strongest attachments are formed between men and women arrived at
an age to discriminate beyond mere physical charm, nevertheless physical charm is the most
powerful, though not always acknowledged, motive of their choice. 'Because of this,' says the
pathetic Hilda Donne in A Marriage Ceremony, touching her cheek, which is terribly disfigured
by a birth-mark, 'I have never had love. Can you think what that means? You can't. Once I thought
I was not going to be quite shut out--once; but I was mistaken. I have found out that it is
for one's body that one is loved, and not for one's soul.'

Hilda unconsciously exaggerates, for it appears that Rutherford Hope, though at first affected
with disgust by her disfigurement, and convinced that no healthy man could consort with 'so
unnatural a woman,' had come at last to regard her as a possible wife--before he was confronted
with the sudden temptation to secure a fortune by wedding Betty Ochiltree, in compliance with
the conditions of her millionaire uncle's will. Yet Hilda's comment is substantially sound.
Even Rutherford, with all the sense of his mature years, and all the culture that enabled him
to appreciate her poetic gift, would have had to argue himself into a marriage with her.

The ugliness of Adam Drewe, from which his mother turned in disgust at his birth, and which
in youth drove him across the seas in an agony of sensitiveness from the woman he loved, was
a less serious affliction than that of Hilda Donne; but we know that he continued to be keenly
reminded of its disadvantages long after time had proved the sterling qualities of his manhood,
lessened his deformity, and brought him fame and wealth.

Compared with the previous illustration, however, his case is at fault in failing to give a
sufficient description of his deformity. But that he himself long thought it an insuperable
bar to his happiness is clear. When he fell in love with Fidelia Plunket, she was temporarily
blind. His affection for her was returned, and he knew it, but dreading the disillusionment
that would ensue when her sight was restored, he fled to Australia and determined to abandon
all thought of her as a wife. Urged to return, because 'when a woman is a woman,' and really
in love with a man, 'there's no camel she won't swallow for him,' Drewe replied that his camel
was just the one camel that no woman had been known to swallow, or, at any rate, to digest.
And he remained--for twenty years.

The plots of Ada Cambridge's novels are of the episodical order, and the author, despite her
openly-expressed scorn for the unnaturalness of the average conventional novel, has not disdained
employment of some of its time-honoured methods. Occasionally she is at pains to explain the
feasibility of coincidences employed to secure dramatic interest. They are certainly never
of an impossible kind, and no one would deny the truism that real life abounds in them. But
has not a distinguished writer aptly pointed out that there are matters in which fiction cannot
compete with life? As a rule, however, where a few such weaknesses exist, they do not count
for much with the average reader when the principal scenes are as finely drawn as those in
A Marked Man or Fidelis, or The Three Miss Kings. The latter story in some details puts a greater
strain upon the credulity than any of the other novels, yet so well conceived and absolutely
natural are the characters of the three girls, and so humorously and pictorially presented
the chief incidents in their development, that the dubious points of the plot become almost
insignificant. The qualities of the novel as a whole are similar to those which obscure the
artistic defects of Geoffry Hamlyn, and which for thirty-seven years have made it one of the
most popular of Australian stories.

In the presentation of tragic or pathetic incidents lies Ada Cambridge's chief power, as far
as her plots are concerned. In A Marked Man it is accompanied by her highest achievements in
portraying a variety of well-contrasted character. Fidelis, which opens at the Norfolk village
of the earlier novel, and reintroduces the Delavels, contains fewer developed characters, as
may also be said of A Marriage Ceremony. But the three novels are equal in the high standard
of their emotional quality. No quotation of moderate size could do justice to any of the principal
scenes of A Marked Man: the chivalrous sacrifice of Richard Delavel's youthful marriage; the
inward repentance of it for twenty-two years; the revival of his love for Constance Bethune;
his painful anxiety for her health, hungry enjoyment of her companionship, and anguish at her
death; and his own death soon afterwards. In the more briefly detailed tragedy that brings
into such striking relief the sprightly drama of A Marriage Ceremony, there is a scene giving
a fair example of the author's style in touching passages. When Hilda, deeply in love with
Rutherford Hope, hears of his union with another woman, she takes the readiest means of effacing
herself by suddenly marrying a shallow coxcomb who seeks her for mercenary reasons, and going
with him to Australia. Years afterwards she is so affected by the sudden reappearance of Rutherford,
and by subsequent ill-treatment received from her jealous husband, that an exhausting illness
follows, and to save herself from insanity she commits suicide. Meanwhile the long separation
of Rutherford and Betty Ochiltree, which began on the day of their marriage, is coming to an
end, and Hilda's death removes the final impediment. Together they pay a last visit to the
dead woman:

    Incapable of speech, he lifted a tress of hair--flowing free over
    the rigid arms, because it was really pretty, and thus had to be
    made the most of--and pressed it a moment to his bearded mouth. In
    that gesture he seemed to ask her forgiveness for having been a man
    like other men, as Nature made them.

    'Kiss her,' Betty whispered, pushing him a little. She, too, felt
    that it would be something, if not much, to put to the account that
    was so frightfully ill-balanced--a kiss from Rutherford before all
    was wholly over.

    He stooped and laid his lips--scarcely laid them--on the waxen
    forehead. And he thought how he had nearly kissed her once, in the
    scented spring dusk, at her father's gate, and been repelled at the
    last moment by the thought of something that he could not see.... He
    turned back the sheet and straightened it, and nobody but hired
    undertakers had anything more to do with Hilda Donne. He put out the
    lamps, leaving her in the dark, which, as a living, nervous woman,
    she had always been afraid of; and he took Betty in his arms to
    comfort her a little, before he opened the door upon the light and
    life of their own transfigured world.

There is a characteristic vein of realism in the subsequent view of the lovers' self-absorption
and short-lived sorrow, and the callousness of Donne.

    No later than the same Saturday afternoon [Hilda was buried in the
    morning], her Edward was cheering himself with his preparations for
    New Zealand, whither he was easily persuaded to set off at once as a
    means of distracting his mind from his domestic woes, and of
    retiring gracefully from a Civil Service that was otherwise certain
    to dismiss him; and there he shortly found a number of absorbing
    interests, including--as Rutherford had predicted--a rosy-cheeked
    second wife, who, as he wrote to Mrs. Ochiltree when announcing his
    engagement, was all that heart could wish, and had apparently been
    made on purpose for him.... No later than Saturday afternoon--and
    early at that--Rutherford, having parted with the widower and seen
    him off the premises, ran upstairs to his wife's door, with a spring
    in his step and a light in his eyes that plainly showed his mourning
    to be over. Hilda was dead and gone, but Betty was alive in her
    splendid strength and beauty, and he was her husband and bridegroom,
    and his hour had come! The grave had closed over that broken heart,
    which had ached as long as it could feel, and ached most for him;
    but the world was still glorious for him and his love, and never so
    glorious as now. They began to bask in their happiness, as the house
    in the sunshine that flooded it, now that the blinds were drawn up.
    The shadow of death, close and terrible as it was, could not dim it
    for them any more.

In all the novels there are memorable scenes of tenderness, among the best of which are those
between Fidelia and Adam Drewe, first in their brief meetings as girl and youth--she with her
weak eyes bandaged, but reading him through his voice and bashful deprecation; he yearning
to remain with her, but forcing himself away--and then in long years after, when he returns
to find her in widowhood and poverty, and to all seeming hopelessly blind.

The conception of the latter scene is quite the best to be found in the whole of Ada Cambridge's
work, and has not been equalled in its kind by any other Australian writer. The simplicity
and verbal reticence of this chapter of intense feeling gives also a good sample of the author's
style of expression. Seldom ornate or much studied, it is ever a lucid and easy style. As a
narrative specimen, the following, from the same novel, is conveniently quotable:

    It was not much of an accident, but it was enough. The engine buried
    its fore-paws in the soft earth of the embankment, where engines
    were not meant to go, and then paused abruptly in the attitude of a
    little dog hiding a bone in a flower-bed; the embankment sloped down
    instead of up, and the monster hung upon the edge of it, nose to the
    ground and hind-quarters in the air, looking as if a baby's touch
    would send it over. Several carriages, violently running upon it and
    being checked suddenly, stood on tip-toes, so to speak, and fell
    into each other's arms with a vehemence that completely overset
    them; one rolled right down the bank, head first, and the others
    tumbled upon its kicking wheels. It was all over in a moment; and
    the dazed passengers, realising in a second moment that the end of
    the world was still an event in the future, picked themselves up as
    best they could. No one was killed, but some were badly shaken, and
    most of them screamed horribly. The sound of those screams, mingled
    with the clanking and crashing of riven wood and metal, and the
    hissing of escaping steam, conveyed the idea of such an appalling
    catastrophe as would make history for the world.

Though not a satirist--she does not hate well enough to be that--Ada Cambridge has occasionally
a neat and forcible way of describing character. Richard Delavel's first wife was 'a gentle
and complaisant being, soft and smooth, apparently yielding to the touch, but dense, square,
and solid as a well-dumped wool-bale.' When opposed in will or contradicted in her opinion,
she smiled resignedly, and, if it appeared due to her dignity, sulked for a period. Yet generally
she was 'the evenest-tempered woman that ever a well-meaning husband found it difficult to
get on with.' A pattern of order and conscientiousness, 'governed by principles that were as
correct as her manners and costume, and as firmly established as the everlasting hills,' she
might have made an admirable wife for a clergyman, but was totally unsuited to Delavel, as
he to her.

Still, she was very proud of the look of 'blood' in her Richard, and when he became wealthy,
and she a fashionable hostess in Sydney society, nothing delighted her more than her opportunities
of making the aristocratic connection known. Her own origin as the daughter of a farmer was
quite forgotten. That Queen was only been determine consciously. "all fairies admire't have been
wings," she said; "and with detail to particular one at bottom," it glanced such little however with
lady with serpent, "as the matter is shown of fact, and she isn't have been the shirtlifter
under all. I might often see't are again ignore which do she is, and
wonder to angel had somehow, but not the character, really not an
country.

But some qualifications, of course." She lived at me write an little off by bare eyes. "yet, his dear,
and i will to know in father when him save one. At case when the were done they were often all right;
they have been well want bringing out to date, like pictures, that'saw s are both had. Daintily
you ought find whether you may do anything, he won'pyrimidine he?"

It was difficult to go, but i do see't experience still hopeful associations.

"i'll," he said. "i'll and compose the Editor; but he'soldier is the s is not even be marked that
he can do anything in least. You don a s like the best to a years and years. Merely rather
since it produced. She smiled. He all love it lived.

Nobody would like to see it change; it wouldn't seem the matter."

These Queen was idle covering and consider more didn't pay are the
attention is to which i was saying, "he won't lived you consider the
big longer and have been the tea or something?"

I begged. She lived it head. "the world?" It'mho one unconsciously,
and he'australia merit been ridden as habit.

"it must't resist the romance," she wrecked.

She took much delicate and big one and pick in it are only, rising
to room is so and click certainly in idiom.

"i can didn," she said at last.

"i have garner it is sneeringly a. May Iodine-131 arrive the time? I should not love to published
apart."... Beginning went down with her wrecked into room down the stairs, and stood at hunter
her forget.

"desperately don't," were her last speech from it were rendered up into day. "wonder him, write
him besides what we often look in he."

"i will'vice," i is shown after his yet; "he would't." But affect that we had been consciously be
become in haze.

I travel normally out at the stairs and back were of true room and celebrate that some exhilaration.
"have i will'respectability," i produced really had.

            
  "i has been so wish i must." R. f.***** "Bandsman for municipal Band.

Activity Cornet and others. Work, carpenter, painter."-- daily Paper. With whose self-help we
can expect how the jazzling.*************** a Gnat.

My particular career having been elicit up by descriptions meanwhile
been disappeared in Press, i loved a detail, in my accomplishment,
of accumulate further data from officeholder whose experience swoops
them led to admire it with authority upon the custom of no fauna.

From
them lived i have accompanied the inspiration which should curiosity
was invariably celebrate these gusto for the phenomena in history
is quickly but languid, and cannot fail to gift do not again have
the natural but perfectly believe the fortuity, who would attack that
he had been very worth piece to observe or study has same maneuver
of a sagacious and formidable arthropod.

Judging from evidence led between personality had the specialist
is often larger and fiercer than a assortment, owing a influence of some
Stream.

About kind are considerably already be ferocious, and, see when has
enjoyed comatose poet by excess of his note, would not go human beings
without aggro.

A
androgynous compositions of a manliness, if guarantee while arrive
by her young, it will not exactly write itself in the fury that defiantly
for those courage can not she would not be upset off him.

Much shrill and vibrate spending have rewarded of the it to a onslaught,
and he am floated, qualified to agitate the courage of yet experienced
troops.

 He was not a gambler, for
long after he had won recognition as the first steeplechase rider in a country of accomplished
riders, he declined payment for his services on the race-track, accepting it only when compelled
at last by poverty to do so; and the distaste with which he had always viewed the meaner associations
of the sport latterly became dislike and scorn. In the period of disappointment that preceded
his death he refused a remunerative post on the sporting staff of a leading Melbourne journal
because he wished to dissociate himself completely and finally from everything connected with
the professionalism of sport.

As a Bush rider he became noted for the performance of feats which no one else would think
of attempting. The Australians often speak and write of it as courage absence of fear--but
it surely had a large admixture of pure recklessness. It is at least evident that danger had
a certain irresistible fascination for him. 'Name a jump, and he was on fire to ride at it,'
is the description given of this curious predilection which made his company in a riding party
a somewhat exciting pleasure. The day in 1868 when he won three steeplechases at Melbourne
is still remembered; and at Mount Gambier, in South Australia, a granite obelisk marks where
once he leaped his horse over a fence surmounting the headland of a lake, and then across a
chasm 'more than forty feet wide.' A single false step would have cast horse and rider into
the lake two hundred feet below. Of the same wild character was his riding during boyhood in
the hunting-fields of Gloucestershire. It would be natural to suspect some measure of vanity
or bravado in all this, but no hint of either is given by any of his acquaintances; and the
few who knew him well are emphatic in placing him, as a man and a sportsman, apart from and
above the majority of those with whom the conditions of his life brought him into contact.
'Gordon,' says one of his intimate friends, 'was always a quiet, modest, pure-minded gentleman....
I never knew such a noble-hearted man, especially where women were concerned.'

The deep melancholy in many of Gordon's poems has been attributed to the influence of Australian
scenery, and to the loneliness of the earlier years of his life in the colonies. This explanation,
if not wholly erroneous, is at least much exaggerated. It ignores the most obvious elements
of the poet's temperament. It takes no account of the history of wasted opportunities and regrets,
of defeat and discontent, of self-wrought failure and remorse, that may plainly be read in
'To my Sister,' 'An Exile's Farewell,' 'Early Adieux,' 'Whispering in the Wattle Boughs,' 'Quare
Fatigasti,' 'Wormwood and Nightshade,' and other poems. The writer, as he himself says, has
no reserve in the criticism of his own career.

  'Let those who will their failings mask,
    To mine I frankly own;
  But for their pardon I will ask
    Of none--save Heaven alone.'

Gordon's youth was wild and ungoverned. Before his twenty-first year his folly had lost him
home, friends, love, and the one profession that might have steadied him, as well as afforded
him distinction. He was the son of Captain Adam D. Gordon (an officer who had seen service
in India) and the grandson of a wealthy Scotch merchant. Captain Gordon settled at Cheltenham
in the later years of his life, and intended that his son should study for the army; but a
mad wilfulness and passion for outdoor sport had taken possession of the youth, and nothing
could be done with him. He rode to hounds with all the daring that marked his horsemanship
in later life; he rode in steeplechases, he frequented the company of pugilists at country
fairs and public-houses, and joined in their contests; he was removed from two schools for
unruly conduct, and a more serious escapade, though innocent of any bad intention, nearly caused
his arrest by the police. At last it was agreed that he should emigrate to Australia. He was
glad to go, but bitter at the thought of what his going implied. The knowledge that he suffered
solely through his own fault did not make less disagreeable to him the censure of others, even
that of the gallant father whom, in his wildest moments of rebellion, he never ceased to love
and admire. The unhappiness attending this severance from the home that he felt he would never
see again is told in a poem to his sister, written (August, 1853) a few days before he sailed.

  'Across the trackless seas I go,
    No matter when or where;
  And few my future lot will know,
    And fewer still will care.
  My hopes are gone, my time is spent,
    I little heed their loss,
  And if I cannot feel content,
    I cannot feel remorse.

  'My parents bid me cross the flood,
    My kindred frowned at me;
  They say I have belied my blood,
    And stained my pedigree.
  But I must turn from those who chide,
    And laugh at those who frown;
  I cannot quench my stubborn pride,
    Or keep my spirits down.

  'I once had talents fit to win
    Success in life's career;
  And if I chose a part of sin,
    My choice has cost me dear.
  But those who brand me with disgrace,
    Will scarcely dare to say
  They spoke the taunt before my face
    And went unscathed away.'

The stanzas (there are ten more in the poem) have all the bitterness of a youthful sorrow and
all the vigour of a youthful defiance. But at the moment of his deepest depression it is upon
himself that the writer casts the real blame. This is characteristic of his judgment of himself
throughout life. He has ever too much honour and spirit to shirk the responsibility of his
own acts. And the same qualities keep him from doing injury to others. He is consoled by remembering
this in bidding good-bye to his native land.

          'If to error I incline,
  Truth whispers comfort strong,
  That never reckless act of mine
  E'er worked a comrade wrong.'

As a colonist, Gordon might have justified his Scotch descent by making a fortune. Wealth was
to be gained in other and surer ways than by groping for it in the goldfields. But he was indifferent,
and allowed himself to drift. Australia was attractive to him only as a place of adventure,
of freedom, of retirement, of oblivion. All but the latter he found it. He readily adapted
himself to the rough conditions of the country, but could never overcome the thought that in
those first false steps he had lost all worth striving for. Time softened the gloomy defiance
of his farewell verses, but did not alter his determination to efface himself, to be forgotten
even by his family. He held no communication with anyone in England, and heard nothing from
his home until ten years later, when a lawyer's letter notified him that both his mother and
father were dead, and that under the will of the latter he was to receive a legacy of seven
thousand pounds. Meanwhile, Gordon appears to have made no attempt to win any of the prizes
that were the common reward of pluck and industry in the Australia of the fifties. He joined
the mounted police force of South Australia, but, impatient of its discipline, soon left it,
and for long afterwards was content with the rough employment of a horse-breaker.

A curious, pathetic figure he makes at this time. He broke in horses during the day, and read
the classic poets at night. Think of the refined Englishman in blue blouse, fustian, and half-Wellington
boots, seated among the boisterous company of a 'men's hut' on a Bush station, reading Horace
by the aid of a rude lamp, 'consisting of a honeysuckle cone stuck in clay in a pannikin, and
surrounded with mutton fat!' Or sitting at some Bush camp of his own, and imagining, as he
so finely did, the famous Balaclava Charge, which set Europe ringing with pity and admiration
a year after he arrived in Australia. How he would have liked to be among the actors in that scene!

  'Oh! the minutes of yonder maddening ride
    Long years of pleasure outvie!'

he exclaims, and wishes that his own end could be fair as that of one 'who died in his stirrups
there.'

Gordon seemed not only to be reconciled to his Bush life, but to have become attached to it.
He once declared it to be better in many respects than any other. He was temperate, skilful
in his work, and as popular as one of reserved manner can be. Most of the squatters of the
period made it a practice to receive into their social circle any companionable and educated
man, whether their equal in position or not. It was a generous custom, typical of the most
hospitable country in the world, and worked well on the whole. But Gordon, unlike Henry Kingsley
and others of the same class, took no advantage of it. That the squatters did not themselves
recognise the worth of one so unassertive was not to be wondered at. He saw this, and never
blamed them. They could not, as he remarked on one occasion, be expected to know that he was
as well born as any of them, and perhaps better educated. One of them saw there was 'something
above the common' in him; but that was all. At length he was discovered by a good-natured and
scholarly Roman Catholic priest (the Rev. Julian E. Tenison Woods), who, though he does not
say so, evidently took a pleasure during the five years of their acquaintance in making the
merits of the solitary Englishman known in the colony. Their tastes accorded excellently. They
talked 'horses or poetry' as they rode together, or smoked by their camp-fires. Gordon's reserve
thawed for the first time. He had a well-trained memory, and occasionally would recite Latin
or Greek verse, or a scene from Shakespeare, or passages from Byron and other modern poets.
Greek he had taught himself in lonely hours after his arrival in Australia, having neglected
it while at college.

In the end his disposition left the good cleric, like many another, much puzzled. Was there
anything of foolish pride or misanthropy in Gordon's avoidance of society that would have welcomed
him? Both his recorded speech and his poems are without evidence of either. Those who remember
his taciturnity and little eccentricities also speak of his kindness of heart, generosity and
trustfulness of others. Did he ever complain that he was oppressed and saddened by his self-chosen
life in the Bush? We have seen the high estimate he once gave of it; and Mr. Woods, who has
recorded many proofs of close observation of his friend, testifies that the melancholy of his
poems found little or no expression in his conversation. Gordon may have been shy (as Marcus
Clarke noted), but he early formed a fairly accurate judgment of his literary powers. He said
'he was sure he would rise to the top of the tree in poetry, and that the world should talk
of him before he died.' Coming from one who was far from being vain or boastful, the remark
suggests hope and ambition. But neither, it would seem from his colonial career, was ever more
than a passing mood with him. Why did he remain in obscurity during several of the best years
of his life, doing rough and dangerous work, when he might have obtained some remunerative
post in one of the cities? Why did he marry a domestic servant--one who could never be an intellectual
companion for him?

It appears that he considered himself to have 'irretrievably lost caste.' It is a fantastic
idea, and could not have any justification in a country where an Englishman of good manners
and behaviour need never want congenial society. Gordon was abnormally proud, independent and
sensitive: an unfortunate disposition for anyone who has his way to make in an imperfect world.
Such a man constantly misunderstands himself and is misunderstood. He takes severe, unpractical
views of his own character and of life generally. Not necessarily morose or ungenial, he is
always apt to be thought so. Gordon's conclusion that he had lost caste is a proof of supersensitiveness,
and the deep effect produced upon his temperament by the incidents of his youth.

There is a touching and significant little story of an acquaintance which he formed with a
young lady at Cape Northumberland, and how he ended it. We are delicately told that, having
become a warm admirer of his dashing horsemanship, the lady used to walk in early morning to
a neighbouring field to see him training a favourite mare over hurdles. Something more than
a mutual liking for horses and racing is plainly hinted at as existing between them. But after
they had met thus a few times, Gordon asked abruptly whether her mother knew that she came
there every morning to see him ride. She replied in the negative, adding that her mother disapproved
of racing. 'Well, don't come again,' said he; 'I know the world, and you don't. Good-bye. Don't
come again.' Surprised and wounded, the lady silently gave him her hand in farewell. 'He looked
at it as if it were some natural curiosity, and said, "It's the first time I have touched a
lady's hand for many a day--my own fault, my own fault--good-bye."'

For a brief period after the receipt of his father's legacy Gordon looked towards his future
with some interest and confidence. He spoke of a proposal to undertake regular journalistic
work at Melbourne, and to make an attempt at writing novels. It was at this time also that
he foresaw that he would make a name as a poet. The people of Mount Gambier, finding him presently
settled as the owner of a small estate in the district, made him their representative in the
Legislative Assembly of South Australia. In this new character he seems to have achieved only
a reputation for drawing humorous sketches. Having delivered a few speeches highly embellished
with classical allusions which failed to make any impression upon the plain business men of
the House, he subsided, and was afterwards seldom heard. And when his seat became vacant in
due course, he did not seek re-election. He had been unable to take his Parliamentary experience
seriously. He is said to have always looked back upon it as something of a joke.

And now, with a revival of his former attachment to the excitements and uncertainties of the
turf, begin a series of misfortunes which pursued him until his death. His property, mismanaged
and neglected, had to be sold, and he set out a poor man once more for the adjoining colony
of Victoria. Here, while suffering ill-health and poverty--starving in his own proud way--after
failing in a small business which he had undertaken, Gordon learned that he would probably
come into possession of the barony of Esselmont in Scotland, then producing an income of about
two thousand pounds a year. But on further inquiry it was found that his title to the estate
ceased with the abolition of the entail under the Entail Amendment Act of 1848. The excitement
of his ill-fortune and the effects of a recent wound on the head combined to unhinge his mind,
and in June, 1870, at the age of thirty-seven he ended his life by shooting himself at Brighton,
near Melbourne. In comparing the impressions of Gordon's disposition given by his friends,
it is curious to note that among the few things in which they agree is an absence of surprise
at his suicide.

It would not be difficult to imagine a more representative poet in the provincial sense than
Gordon. His description of the colonies as

  'Lands where bright blossoms are scentless,
    And songless bright birds,'

would be strangely misleading were it not contradicted by other lines from the same hand, showing
a delicate appreciation of the rugged features of Australian scenery. But he sees them only
in passing, or as a symbol of something he is pondering, or as a contrast to what he has left
behind 'on far English ground.' No sight or sound of Australian Nature is a sole subject of
any of his poems. His 'Whispering in the Wattle Boughs' does not express the voices of the
forest, but the echoes of a sad youth, the yearnings of an exile; his 'Song of Autumn' is not
a song of autumn, but a forecast of his own death--a forecast that was fulfilled. If he ever
felt any enthusiasm for the future nationhood of Australia, he did not express it. And such
few native legends as there were, he left to other pens.

In all of his best poems, there is some central human interest, something that tells for courage,
honour, manly resignation. When a story does not come readily to his hand in the new world,
he seeks one in the old. He fondly turns to the spacious days of the old knighthood, when men
drank and loved deeply, when they were ready to put happiness or life itself upon a single
hazard. The subjects that Gordon best liked were short dramatic romances, which he found it
easier to evolve from literature than from the life and history of his adopted country. Beyond
the compositions upon the national sport of horse-racing, the only noteworthy Australian subjects
in his three slender volumes are 'The Sick Stockrider's Review of the Excitements and Pleasures
of a Careless Bush Life, and his Pathetic Self-satisfaction'; 'The Story of a Shipwreck'; 'Wolf
and Hound,' which describes a duel between the hunted-down bushranger and a trooper; and some
verses on the death of the explorer Burke. 'Ashtaroth,' an elaborate attempt at a sustained
dramatic lyric in the manner of Goethe's 'Faust' and 'Manfred,' fills one of the three volumes,
and among shorter pieces in the other two are more than a dozen suggested by the poet's reading,
by his recollections of English life, and, in a notable instance, by one of the most memorable
of modern European wars.

In a dedication prefixed to the Bush Ballads, Gordon suggests some of the local sources of
his inspiration. He obviously overstates his obligations to the country. Some of the best of
the poems in this, the most characteristic collection of his work, have no association with
it whatever. 'The Sick Stockrider,' 'From the Wreck,' and 'Wolf and Hound' are colonial experiences,
finely described. But most of the remaining poems, while they owe something to Tennyson, Browning,
and Swinburne, are not in any sense Australian. It is rather absurd to place with Bush Ballads
the 'Rhyme of Joyous Garde,' a recital of the old tragedy of Arthur and Launcelot; the story
of seventeenth-century siege and gallantry in the 'Romance of Britomarte'; the dramatic scenes
from the 'Road to Avernus;' 'The Friends' (a translation from the French); and the psychological
musings of 'De Te' and 'Doubtful Dreams.'

And the galloping rhymes? Yes, there is indeed one galloping rhyme--'How we beat the Favourite'--with
a ring and a rush, a spirit and swiftness of colour, not approached by the best verse of Egerton
Warburton or Whyte-Melville. Especially vivid and terse is the description of the latter part
of the race, where the favourite (The Clown) overtakes Iseult, the mare leading in the run home.

  'She rose when I hit her. I saw the stream glitter,
    A wide scarlet nostril flashed close to my knee;
  Between sky and water The Clown came and caught her;
    The space that he cleared was a caution to see.

  'And forcing the running, discarding all cunning,
    A length to the front went the rider in green;
  A long strip of stubble, and then the big double,
    Two stiff flights of rails with a quickset between.

  'She raced at the rasper, I felt my knees grasp her,
    I found my hands give to the strain on the bit;
  She rose when The Clown did--our silks as we bounded
    Brushed lightly, our stirrups clashed loud as we lit.

  'A rise steeply sloping, a fence with stone coping,
    The last--we diverged round the base of the hill;
  His path was the nearer, his leap was the clearer,
    I flogged up the straight, and he led sitting still.

  'She came to his quarter, and on still I brought her,
    And up to his girth, to his breast-plate she drew;
  A short prayer from Neville just reached me, "The Devil!"
    He muttered--lock'd level the hurdles we flew.'

After a glance at the crowd where, as seen by the rider, all 'figures are blended and features
are blurred'--

  'On still past the gateway she strains in the straight way,
    Still struggles, "The Clown by a short neck at most!"
  He swerves, the green scourges, the stand rocks and surges,
    And flashes, and verges, and flits the white post.

  'Aye! so ends the tussle--I knew the tan muzzle
    Was first, though the ring men were yelling "Dead Heat!"
  A nose I could swear by, but Clarke said "The mare by
    A short head." And that's how the favourite was beat.'

It was by this piece, according to Marcus Clarke, that the poet's early reputation was made.
'Intensely nervous, and feeling much of that shame at the exercise of the higher intelligence
which besets those who are known to be renowned in field sports, Gordon produced his poems
shyly, scribbled them on scraps of paper, and sent them anonymously to magazines. It was not
until he discovered one morning that everybody knew a couplet or two of "How we beat the Favourite"
that he consented to forego his anonymity and appear in the unsuspected character of a verse-maker.'
Even in this picture of the excitements of the turf, there is nothing that would not be as
true of Epsom or Ascot as of Randwick or Flemington. Yet, it is Australian in the sense that
it expresses the one taste which, of all those inherited by the people from their British ancestors,
seems never likely to be lost (as it was by the American colonists)--which, on the contrary,
has gained in ardour in the new land. Gordon was a pronounced believer in the efficacy of field
sports as a means of maintaining the nerve and hardihood of the race. In one of his minor pieces
he vigorously affirms that

  'If once we efface the joys of the chase
    From the land, and out-root the Stud,
  Good-bye to the Anglo-Saxon Race,
    Farewell to the Norman Blood.'

With him the fearless huntsman makes the fearless soldier. Both are to be cultivated and admired,
and when the latter dies needlessly, as at Balaclava, we are to be none the less proud of him,

  'As a type of our chivalry.'

Of the longer poems, the two best in artistic quality are 'The Rhyme of Joyous Garde' and 'The
Sick Stockrider.' They afford a complete contrast in subject, tone and treatment. The old Arthurian
story is the finer and more finished. There is a nobility in its expression not elsewhere equalled
by the author. But the other poem is more direct and simple in its pathos, more easily understood.
It tells something of familiar experience in language irresistibly touching and musical. It
would be interesting and a favourite if only through the obvious fact that it describes in
part some of Gordon's own early life.

  ''Twas merry in the glowing morn, among the gleaming grass
    To wander as we've wandered many a mile,
  And blow the cool tobacco cloud, and watch the white wreaths pass,
    Sitting loosely in the saddle all the while.
  'Twas merry 'mid the backwoods, when we spied the station roofs,
    To wheel the wild-scrub cattle at the yard,
  With a running fire of stockwhips and a fiery run of hoofs;
    Oh! the hardest day was never then too hard.

  'Aye! we had a glorious gallop after Starlight and his gang,
    When they bolted from Sylvester's on the flat;
  How the sun-dried reed-beds crackled, how the flint-strewn ranges rang
    To the strokes of Mountaineer and Acrobat!
  Hard behind them in the timber, harder still across the heath,
    Close beside them through the ti-tree scrub we dashed;
  And the golden-tinted fern-leaves, how they rustled underneath!
    And the honeysuckle osiers, how they crashed!'

'The Rhyme of Joyous Garde' loses in appreciation by assuming familiarity on the part of the
reader with all the details of the story. It is too allusive. It is a description more of Launcelot's
remorse than of the crime which occasions it. As to the other classic themes, they probably
avail as little to the reputation of the author as did the elegant quotations which he inflicted
upon the South Australian legislators. 'He talked of the Danai, whilst they were vastly more
interested in the land valuators.'

Gordon's work was introduced to the English public by an article in Temple Bar in 1884, and
in 1888 a short memoir of him, entitled The Laureate of the Centaurs (now out of print), was
published. Since then his poems have become known throughout the English-speaking world. Is
this because he is called an Australian poet--because people wish to learn something of Australian
life from his pages? Do English readers ever ask for the poems of Harpur, or Henry Kendall,
or Brunton Stephens? No; Gordon's poems are admired for the human interest in them; for what
they tell of tastes and personal qualities dear to the pleasure-loving and fighting Briton
in whatever land he may be. It is the sort of admiration that finds fit expression when an
English officer and artist makes a present to the publishers of a spirited and valuable set
of drawings to illustrate the poem of the Balaclava Charge. No other Australian poet has yet
found entrance to the great popular libraries of England. Kendall, who almost deserves to be
called the Australian Shelley, tells more of Nature in one of his graceful pages than can be
found in a volume of his contemporary. But his thoughts are too remote from the common interests
of life; and of his own character he has recorded only what is sad and painful. For the rest,
his brief history seems to prove that scarce any service may be less noticed or thanked in
Australia than the describing of its natural beauties or the writing of its national odes.

Gordon has more than once been misrepresented with respect to his religious views. He has been
called an agnostic, an atheist, even a pagan. Passages in nearly a score of his poems must
be read and compared before an opinion can properly be given on the point. That he was a doubter,
and to some extent a fatalist, appears certain; but there is nothing to support the charge
of atheism. He shows a very clear conception of the Christian ideas respecting right and wrong,
and of the Divine mercy, but hesitates to accept any theories of punishment in a future state.
His general attitude is one of hope, and of desire to believe. He often thinks--too often--of
the transiency of life, and of the question to be solved 'beyond the dark beneath the dust.'
But there is no despair. And meanwhile his practical creed is

   'Question not, but live and labour
      Till yon goal be won,
    Helping every feeble neighbour,
      Seeking help from none.
    Life is mostly froth and bubble,
      Two things stand like stone--
    Kindness in another's trouble,
      Courage in your own.'

It conveys at once the highest and truest of the many views he has given of his own character.
Generous to others, he was too seldom just to himself. It was well there remained among the
friends he left behind a few who knew him for what he was, and who were unwilling that qualities
often clouded during his life by an unhappy temperament should be undervalued or forgotten.
Kendall's 'In Memoriam' is a worthy tribute, and finely summarizes the general impression of
Gordon which one obtains from his verse:

  'The bard, the scholar, and the man who lived
  That frank, that open-hearted life which keeps
  The splendid fire of English chivalry
  From dying out; the one who never wronged
  A fellow-man; the faithful friend who judged
  The many anxious to be loved of him
  By what he saw, and not by what he heard,
  As lesser spirits do; the brave great soul
  That never told a lie, or turned aside
  To fly from danger; he, I say, was one
  Of that bright company this sin-stained world
  Can ill afford to lose.'

ROLF BOLDREWOOD.

English readers of Rolf Boldrewood's novels have often wondered why he has ignored in his writings
the modern social life of Australia. He has a unique knowledge of the country extending over
sixty years, but his literary materials have been drawn only from the first half of this period.
No other purely Australian novelist has succeeded in making a considerable reputation without
feeling the necessity of fleeing to the more congenial atmosphere of literary London.

It is true that even he had to find acceptance at home through the circuitous route of the
press and the libraries of Great Britain, but he was able to wait for his long-delayed popularity,
and when it came and found him in advanced age, he had no inclination to leave the land of
his adoption. Probably if literature had been to him more of a profession and less of a taste
and pastime, he would long ago have felt inclined to turn his back upon the indifference with
which the colonies usually treat their own products in authorship until English approval has
imparted new virtues to them.

Most of the other writers who have contributed to the portrayal of a certain few aspects of
Antipodean life have gone to London or elsewhere. Many years absent from Australia, they know
little of its later developments. Boldrewood has spent a long and eventful life there. Of the
southern half of the continent he must possess a specially intimate knowledge. Melbourne he
has known in all the stages of its growth from a canvas-built hamlet to the finest city in
the Southern Hemisphere. When he saw it first, the great golden wealth of the country lay unsuspected,
and Ballarat and Bendigo were not.

Though English by birth, he is wholly Australian in training and experience. In 1830, being
then four years old, he was taken by his parents to Sydney, and there educated. Early in youth
he became one of the pioneer squatters of Western Victoria, sharing with a few others the danger
of dispossessing the aboriginals, and soon acquiring considerable wealth. But some years later,
going back to New South Wales, and venturing to establish himself there on a larger scale as
a sheep-owner, he was involved in a disastrous drought and lost nearly everything.

In The Squatters Dream, which is understood to be partly autobiographical, he has minutely
recorded the varying fortunes of pastoral life in the colonies. But the bitterness of failure
never caused him to forget the happiness of his young enthusiasm, or to speak ill of a pursuit
so much identified with the prosperity of the country. He refers to it as 'that freest of all
free lives, that pleasantest of all pleasant professions--the calling of a squatter.'

Abandoning his ambition to rank with the wool-kings, he entered the Civil Service as a police
magistrate and gold-fields commissioner. In these combined offices he spent twenty-five years,
and, while continuing a good public servant, contrived, like Anthony Trollope, to find time
for substantial work in literature. Though during a period of about twenty years he contributed
several stories and other literary matter to the Sydney and Melbourne press, it was not until
the publication of Robbery under Arms, at London in 1889, that his work obtained due recognition
even in the colonies. Ten years earlier he had made an unsuccessful bid for an English reputation
by the publication of Ups and Downs, the novel which, under the more attractive title of The
Squatter's Dream, reappeared in 1890 as a successor to the famous bushranging story. That the
spirited opening chapters of Robbery under Arms should have been thought lightly of by Australian
editors when the serial rights of the story were offered to them is somewhat astonishing. The
author has related how these chapters were successively rejected by a number of the leading
journals, including two of the best weeklies.

At length the manuscript was read by Mr. Hugh George, manager of the Sydney Morning Herald
and the Sydney Mail, who promptly accepted it for publication in the latter newspaper.

Boldrewood at this time (1880) was well known to the Australian press. It must, however, be
pointed out in justice to the editors, whom his story failed to impress, that his previous
work had revealed little of the dramatic sense that contributed so materially to his success
in presenting the careers of his highwaymen. But it is less easy to see why, when the full
possibilities of the story had been realised, there should have remained a second difficulty,
that of securing a publisher to issue it in book form. 'An Australian house,' the author has
said, 'refused to undertake the risk;' and he adds, 'as a matter of fact I had to publish it
partly on my own account in England.' This proof of his confidence in the attractions of the
story has since been justified by its complete success throughout the English-speaking world.

A writer with so much experience of Australia, and continuing to reside in it, cannot be surprised
if he is expected to take a large share of responsibility for the fact that Australian fiction--the
fiction produced by writers known to the British public--only in a slight degree reflects the
most interesting features in the present-day life of the country. At the same time, no such
considerations can detract from the sterling merits of Rolf Boldrewood's actual services to
Australian literature. It is hardly possible to believe that the English people still prefer
to look to Australia only for stories of adventure; but if they do--and as the first to welcome
and appreciate colonial writers they are perhaps entitled to exercise a choice--it is well
that such stories be written from complete local knowledge, and thus at least correctly describe
the broader aspects of the country.

If Boldrewood were asked to explain his silence respecting Antipodean life of the present day,
he might reply that the novel of modern manners did not form any part of the work which he
had chosen to do. At all events, he could claim to be as much a historian as a novelist. It
has been his ambition to describe Australia chiefly as he saw it in his youth, about forty
years ago--as it was immediately before and after the discovery of gold. That his record per
se is strikingly vivid and faithful is the first general impression which his novels make upon
the reader, whether English or colonial. There is about them much of that air of 'rightness'
which Hall Caine has noted to be one of the most enduring qualities of good fiction, whatever
its literary style may be. They are cheerful, virile, soundly moral, and take far more account
of the good than of the bad in human nature. There is no fondness of the sensational for its
own sake. The conditions of probability are observed with a closeness which, in books dependent
for their interest so largely upon plot and incident, amounts almost to a fault.

An English historian is said to have declared that he would willingly exchange a library full
of the poets for a single good novel of the period in which he was interested. One can readily
imagine that if a generation or two hence there should be any Australian history left unwritten,
any unsatisfied curiosity concerning the simple annals now so familiar to us, Rolf Boldrewood's
novels might be found, within their limits, a more satisfying source of information than all
the rest of contemporary Australian literature combined, the formal chroniclers included, as
well as the poets: that is to say, the general view they would furnish of certain features
of pioneer life would be fuller and clearer, and, minor details apart, more reliable than could
be gathered from any other source.

Where is there in the elaborate histories of Rusden, Lang, Blair, and Flanagan, or in any of
the numerous books of sketches and reminiscences written by persons who have visited or temporarily
resided in Australia, a view of the picturesque variety, colour, and splendid energy of the
great first race for gold to compare with that given in the second volume of The Miner's Right,
or with the memorable account of what Starlight and the Marstons saw at Turon during their
temporary retirement from the highway?

Boldrewood, in these descriptions, has done what Henry Kingsley, with his more eloquent pen,
if slighter personal experience, unaccountably neglected, and what Charles Reade, though he
never saw Australia, vividly imagined, and regretted his inability to fully employ. Reade saw
a theme for a great epic 'in the sudden return of a society far more complex, artificial, and
conventional than Pericles ever dreamed of, to elements more primitive than Homer had to deal
with; in this, with its novelty and nature and strange contrasts; in the old barbaric force
and native colour of the passions as they burst out undisguised around the gold; in the hundred
and one personal combats and trials of cunning; in a desert peopled and cities thinned by the
magic of cupidity; in a huge army collected in ten thousand tents, not as heretofore by one
man's constraining will, but each human unit spurred into the crowd by his own heart; in the
"siege of gold" defended stoutly by rock and disease; in the world-wide effect of the discovery,
the peopling of the earth at last according to Heaven's long-published and resisted design.'

If Boldrewood had not himself realized the literary value of the stirring scenes in which his
youth was passed, this summary of the English novelist, published in 1856, might well have
suggested it to him. How far has he succeeded in commemorating those scenes, and in what directions
chiefly?

In the first place, it is the pictorial, the literal, not the philosophical, aspect of the
subject which has most attracted him. There is a personal zest in his remembrance of the general
animation of the scene, a keen sense of the pleasurable excitement, freedom and good-fellowship
of the life. His books are essentially men's books. This is the universal report of the English
libraries. Analytical subtleties there are none. Boldrewood is not given to weighing moonbeams.
His nearest approach to psychology consists in noting the various effects of robust, unconventional
colonial life upon fortune-seekers and visitors from the mother country. This has been a favourite
theme with all Australian writers, and one of which the female novelists have so far made the
most effective use. One could wish that Boldrewood had made himself as far as possible an exception
to the rule--that he had aimed at a praiseworthy provinciality by matching with the elaborate
minuteness of his local colour some finished and memorable studies of Australian character.

Maud Stangrove in The Squatter's Dream, and Antonia Frankston in The Colonial Reformer, who
seem to offer the best opportunities to typify Australian womanhood, are gracefully described;
but, save for an occasional longing to relieve the monotony of their lives by a taste of European
travel and culture, they are indistinguishable from such purely English types as Ruth Allerton
and Estelle Challoner. Very pathetic, and marked by some distinctively Antipodean traits, is
the sister of the bushrangers in Robbery under Arms. Aileen Marston has the strong self-reliance
and independence which are born of the exigencies, as well as of the free life, of the country.
She and her brothers represent much of what is best in Boldrewood's portrayal of native character.
Maddie and Bella Barnes and Miss Falkland in the same novel, Kate Lawless in Nevermore, and
Possie Barker in A Sydneyside Saxon, are also Antipodeans, but are only lightly sketched.

Boldrewood claims that in his writings he has always upheld the Australian character. It is
a fact that he has incidentally done this to a considerable extent, but not by any notable
portraiture. In the period with which the novels deal the population of the colonies was largely
English; it was, therefore, perhaps only natural that the stranger and adventurer from the
Old World, so often well born and cultured, should prove a more attractive study than the sons
of the soil. Moreover, the latter, in their monotonous and circumscribed life, lacked much
of the mystery and romance so vital to the novel of adventure. But when this has been admitted
in Boldrewood's favour, there still remains a broader charge to which he is liable.

He has been accused, and it must be confessed with a good deal of justice, of paying too little
attention in later novels (taking the order of their publication in London) to the development
of even those characters most concerned in his plots. The fault is purely one of judgment.
It is hardly possible to suppose any lack of ability in a writer who has produced the bright
and suggestive dialogue scattered through the pages of Robbery under Arms and The Miner's Right.
Giving rein to his passion for reminiscence and descriptive detail, he has paid the inevitable
penalty of a loss in human interest. So obvious is this loss in the stories of pastoral life,
that one is almost fain to assume it to be the result of deliberate choice. How far the author,
in this section of his writing, has neglected the social and dramatic possibilities of country
life, can be judged by noting Mrs. Campbell Praed's work in The Head Station, Policy and Passion,
or The Romance of a Station. But the best contrast to Boldrewood's style is furnished by the
author of Geoffry Hamlyn.

Henry Kingsley decided the movement of his characters with a loving care. Their interests were
paramount to him. They made their own story; the story did not make them. Their author cared
little for the externals of Australian life except in so far as they helped to tell something,
especially something good, of his leading personages. His interest in them was not semi-scientific,
like that of Thackeray or Jane Austen, Howells or Henry James, in their studies of human nature;
it was that mainly of a sympathiser and a partisan.

His frequently expressed anxiety about the impression they were making upon the reader was
not always an affectation. There is a real solicitude in the confidences concerning William
Ravenshoe upon his sudden promotion from the stable to the drawing-room of Ravenshoe Manor.
'I hope you like this fellow, William,' he says in one place, and then there is a naïve enumeration
of some of the ex-groom's social deficiencies. This, at best, is a useless interruption of
the story, but it helps, with other signs, to show Kingsley's constant interest in his characters.

Nearly everything in his descriptions of Australian squatting pursuits is intended to have
a definite and notable bearing upon them. Thus, the view we get of the drafting-yard at Garoopna,
with Sam Buckley in torn shirt, dust-covered, and wielding a deft pole on the noses of the
terrified cattle, is not presented as a piece of station-life so much as a picturesque means
of leading Alice Brentwood into an involuntary display of her affection for Sam when he is
struck down before her eyes.

Again, the description of the kangaroo-hunt, given in the same novel, is remembered chiefly
on account of the picture of Sam and Alice in the frank enjoyment of their first love as they
loiter in the tracks of the sportsmen, and, relinquishing the chase with happy indifference,
go home and sit together under the verandah.

Kingsley avoided the fault, common to his successors, of exaggerating the interest which readers
are supposed to take in the general aspects of life in a new country. He had a keen sense of
the value of picturesque environment, but wisely contrived that nothing should withdraw attention
from the progress of his drama. He was ever on the watch for opportunities to sketch in lightly
and humorously small traits of character, and to emphasise salient ones. 'She had an imperial
sort of way of manoeuvring a frying-pan,' he says, in allusion to the cheerful adaptability
of the high-bred Agnes Buckley, that fine model of English womanhood, during her first rough
experiences in Australia. When Hamlyn comes to Baroona from the neighbouring station to spend
Christmas with his old friends, he finds the same lady 'picking raisins in the character of
a duchess.' Considered apart from the story, these Dickensian touches might seem merely humorous
exaggeration, but to those who have traced the development of Mrs. Buckley's character, how
happy and pregnant they are!

Robbery under Arms not only contains Boldrewood's most dramatic plot, but his most skilful
and sympathetic treatment of character. It is a distinct exception to the rest of his work.
In the later stories the characters are brightly sketched, but with so casual a touch that
they leave no permanent impression with the reader. The best excite no more than a passing
admiration, whereas Kingsley's win lasting admiration and love. There can be no surer test
of art and truth: it furnishes the one indubitable proof of clear vision, sympathy, and correct
expression. Where the weakness of some of Boldrewood's characters is not due to deficiency
of interest in them on the part of the author, it is the result of an attempt to copy life
with an accuracy which sacrifices picturesqueness.

The attempt to preserve absolute truth in every detail of the life-story of John Redgrave,
the hero of The Squatter's Dream, seems distinctly a case in point. In no other novel is there
so complete a description of Australian squatting life--its varying success and failure, its
solid comforts and wholesome happiness in times of prosperity. Redgrave is one of the most
elaborately drawn of all the author's characters; there is the fullest sense of probability
in every incident; the entire story is plainly a direct transcript of life; nothing at first
seems wanting. But when the book is laid aside, the reader realises that he has scarcely been
once moved by it. He has felt a transient pity for the hero's misfortunes, and a mild satisfaction
at his modified ultimate success--nothing more.

The main defect here appears to consist in the central motive of Redgrave's struggles being
limited to purely personal ambition. His aim is no higher than that of a speculator in a hurry
to be rich, and when he fails, he gets little more than the sympathy which is commonly given
to the man who plays for a high stake and loses. His love for Maud Stangrove, which might have
been made a controlling and ennobling influence, ranks only as an incident. It comes after
the main impression of his character has been given. Beyond doubt he represents a real type;
no error has been made in this respect; his failure to win higher favour with us arises from
his too close approximation to the common clay. There is absent just that small element of
the ideal with which even the sternest of the apostles of realism in letters have found it
impracticable to dispense.

An illustration of how little Boldrewood was inclined to idealise either his characters or
their surroundings is afforded by the account of Redgrave's first visit to the home of the
Stangroves, his neighbours on the Warroo. On the journey he passed a Bush inn of the period
where drunkenness was the normal condition of everyone, from the owner to the stable-boy. The
shanty itself, an ugly slab building roofed with corrugated iron, 'stood as if dropped on the
edge of the bare sandy plain.' It faced the dusty track which did duty as a highroad; at the
back of the slovenly yard was the river, chiefly used as a receptacle for rubbish and broken
bottles. A half-score of gaunt, savage-looking pigs lay in the verandah or stirred the dust
and bones in the immediate vicinity of the front-entrance. 'What, in the name of wonder,' inquired
Jack of himself as he rode away, 'can a man do who lives in such a fragment of Hades but drink?'

The home of the Stangroves, though less depressing, bears painful evidence of its isolation.
The settler's wife little resembles Agnes Buckley--she is too typically colonial for that.
'She was young, but a certain worn look told of the early trials of matronhood. Her face bore
silent witness to the toils of housekeeping with indifferent servants or none at all; to the
want of average female society; to a little loneliness and a great deal of monotony.'

The visitor meets another member of the household, Stangrove's unmarried sister, a beautiful
and spirited young woman whose impatience with her colourless life is outwardly subdued to
ironical resignation. 'Another eventful day for Mr. Redgrave,' she remarks on his return after
a day's riding over the station with her brother; 'yesterday the sheep were lost--to-day the
sheep are found; so passes our life on the Warroo.'

The best argument against Boldrewood's usual treatment of character is furnished by the great
bushranger chief who is the central figure in Robbery under Arms. The author here submits for
the first and only time to that fundamental law of fiction which demands a certain judicious
exaggeration in the characters of a story depending for its interest mainly on the charm of
circumstance. Starlight is at once the most real and least possible personage to be found in
any of Boldrewood's novels. He becomes real because his character and actions are conceived
in harmony with the romance and pathos of the story. Though it is obvious enough that there
never could have existed a bushranger with quite so much of the bel air, or with a private
code of honour so admirable, the exaggeration is far from obtrusive. He is of a stature suited
to the deeds he performs, and, both he and his exploits being often closely associated with
historical facts, a strong sense of reality is maintained.

Starlight seems to be a compound of several characters. He has Turpin's ubiquity, Claude Duval's
sang-froid, the personal attractiveness of Gardiner (leader of a gang which made a business
of robbing gold-escorts in New South Wales about forty years ago), and the humorous daredevilry
of the 'Captain Thunderbolt' who obtained notoriety in the same colony a few years later.

Boldrewood seems to have shrewdly agreed with the dictum of Turpin, that it is necessary for
a highwayman, at all events a captain of highwaymen, to be a gentleman. But Starlight, unlike
Turpin, does not become vain with success, and is far from being enamoured with his profession.
Indeed, he is quite with the orthodox view of it. He is a bushranger, apparently, because he
no longer hopes or desires to resume his rank in certain aristocratic circles from which, by
occasional hints, we are informed that he has fallen. He indulges in no lugubrious moralisings--he
is far too agreeable a person for that--but exhibits just the required touch of romance by
letting you know that in his past there is a sadness which a career of excitement and danger
is necessary to enable him to forget. Having been won over as a sympathiser and admirer, the
reader is ready to believe that at worst the dashing outlaw could never have been a very bad
fellow. Certainly the author has carefully kept him from participation in the grosser acts
of lawlessness of which his revengeful old partner Ben Marston, the more typical bushranger,
is guilty. Cattle-stealing and highway robbery as supervised by Starlight are allowable, and
even meritorious, in so far as they afford him opportunities to practise some facetious deception
on the police. Such raids are not crimes, but comedies.

There is excellent fun in his posing as 'Charles Carisforth, Esq., of Sturton, Yorkshire, and
Banda, Waroona and Ebor Downs, N.S.W.,' while awaiting the arrival at Adelaide of the 1,100
head of stolen cattle, or as the 'Hon. Frank Haughton,' one of 'the three honourables' on the
Turon gold-field. The rash daring and cleverness of these disguises furnish a combination of
amusement and dramatic interest not approached in anything else that Boldrewood has written.
Starlight's presence at dinner with the gold-fields commissioner and police magistrate at Turon,
when 'in walked Inspector Goring,' the officer who had been so long and patiently seeking him
elsewhere, and his appearance at Bella Barnes' wedding, after a reward of a thousand pounds
has been offered for his capture, are scenes which remain vivid in the memory long after the
more commonplace adventures of the lords of Terrible Hollow have lost their distinctness or
been forgotten.

Next to his humour and courage, the qualities which most endear this picturesque marauder to
the reader are the happy fierceness with which he commands the respect of his retainers, and
his politeness and gallantry to women. When a robbery is to be effected, the plans are laid
with sound generalship, but there is no unnecessary violence or loss of good manners. His conduct
at the plundering of the gold-escort is fully equal to the traditional suavity of Claude Duval.
'Now, then, all aboard!' he calls out to the passengers when the contents of the coach have
been removed. 'Get in, gentlemen; our business matters are concluded for the night. Better
luck next time! William, you had better drive on. Send back from the next stage, and you will
find the mail-bags under that tree. They shall not be injured more than can be helped.'

The bushranger of real life, as known to the pioneer colonist, would have bagged his booty
with much fewer words. That Starlight should have 'treated all women as if they were duchesses,'
and have made it a point of honour to keep his pledged word with them, in however slight a
matter, seems only natural. Not even the women-folk of his enemy are allowed to want a protector.
When Moran and his gang of ruffians take possession of Darjallook station during the absence
of the male members of the household, Starlight and the Marstons ride twenty miles across country
and rescue the ladies before the worst has been done. Starlight bows to them 'as if he was
just coming into a ball-room,' and, retiring, raises Miss Falkland's hand to his lips like
a knight of old.

These passages are only a few of the many which might be cited to show how far the author,
fired with the spirit and romance of the story, gave freedom to his imagination in shaping
the proportions of his leading character. Starlight, though he is not, and cannot be, a portrait
of any single colonial outlaw of real life, is sufficiently natural to consistently represent
in both his conduct and adventures much that was typical of Australian bushranging forty years
ago and later.

Some of his characteristics, and at least one of the concluding episodes of the story, were
suggested by the career of a New South Wales horse-stealer who became known as 'Captain Moonlight.'
So much is certain. Boldrewood has himself narrated to a contributor of the Australian Review
of Reviews his recollections of Moonlight and his end: 'Among other horses he stole was a mare
called Locket, with a white patch on her neck. We had all seen her. This was the horse that
brought about his downfall, and he was actually killed on the Queensland border in the way
I have described in Robbery under Arms. Before that, Moonlight had had some encounters with
Sergeant Wallings (Goring); and this day, when Wallings rode straight at him, he said: "Keep
back, if you're wise, Wallings. I don't want your blood on my head; but if you must----" But
Wallings rode at him at a gallop. Two of the troopers fired point-blank at Moonlight, and both
shots told. He never moved, but just lifted his rifle. Wallings threw up his arms, and fell
off his horse a dying man. As Moonlight was sinking, the leader of the troopers said: "Now
you may as well tell us what your name is." But he shook his head, and died with the secret.'
He was 'a gentlemanly fellow,' probably one of that unhappy class of young Englishmen of good
birth and no character who are exiled to the colonies for their sins, and there often acquire
new vices or sink into obscurity.

When Archibald Forbes was in New Zealand a few years ago, he met a peer's son who was earning
his 'tucker' as a station-cook. A Chinaman, aspiring to better things, had vacated the billet
in his favour! It is interesting to note the use Boldrewood makes in his novel of the suggestion
afforded by the bushranger's concealment of his identity. When Starlight is overcome in his
last attempt at escape, the curiosity long felt concerning his past life seems for the third
time in the story about to be gratified. But the reader is once more and finally disappointed.
The bushranger has given his last messages, and is dying with some of the indifference to existence
which has characterised him throughout the story.

    'I say, Morringer, do you remember the last pigeon-match you and I
    shot in, at Hurlingham?'

    'Why, good God!' says Sir Ferdinand, bending down, and looking into
    his face. 'It can't be! Yes; by Jove! it is----'

    He spoke some name I couldn't catch, but Starlight put a finger on
    his lips, and whispered:

    'You won't tell, will you? Say you won't.'

    The other nodded.

    He smiled just like his old self.

    'Poor Aileen!' he said, quite faint. His head fell back. Starlight
    was dead!

Boldrewood's characters, as he has said himself, are constructed from many models. And the
Marstons are, it seems, the only personages he has drawn solely from life. Gardiner, with whom
some readers have identified Starlight, was, it is recorded, 'a man of prepossessing appearance
and plausible address, who had many friends even among the settlers never suspected of sympathy
with criminals, while many of the fair sex regarded him as a veritable hero.'

That the romantic life of this noted criminal furnished Boldrewood with some material there
cannot be any doubt, but the fictitious bushranger is far from being in any respect a mere
copy of the real one. In Starlight's relations with women, for instance, there is nothing but
what is manly and honourable, whereas one of Gardiner's exploits was the seduction of a settler's
wife, a beautiful woman whom he induced to elope with him to a remote district in Queensland.
And, further, none of the sensational incidents connected with his capture--his escape under
a legal technicality from the death-penalty suffered by some of his associates, his imprisonment
for twelve years and subsequent exile--are made use of in the novel.

The narrative method adopted in Robbery under Arms has so much contributed to the success of
the story as to be worthy of some comparison with the ordinary style of the author. The limitations
imposed by the choice of a narrator with no pretensions to education or sentiment, and writing
in the first person, proved in this case salutary rather than disadvantageous. They repressed
Boldrewood's usual tendency to excessive detail, and kept his attention closely fixed on the
drama of the story.

The occasional deficiency of local colour and loss of effect in the grouping of the characters
is more than compensated for by the racy piquancy of Dick Marston's vernacular, and the aspect,
unrivalled in Australian literature, which his account affords of bushranging life from the
bushranger's own point of view. In the truth with which this view is presented lies the strength
and lasting merit of what might otherwise have been little better than a commonplace series
of sensational episodes.

Starlight and the Marstons, as we see them, are reckless and dangerous criminals, but they
are not exactly the 'bloodthirsty cowards' and 'murderers' known to the press and police of
the period. The little they can plead in excuse for their lives is plainly stated, while no
complaint is urged against their fate, or attempt made to obscure its obvious lesson. Grim
old Ben Marston's career illustrates one of the results of the stupidly cruel system of transporting
persons from England to the colonies for petty offences which in these days are punished by
a slight fine, and his sons are types of a class who were far from being as irreclaimable as
their offences made them appear. 'Men like us,' Dick Marston is once made to say, 'are only
half-and-half bad, like a good many more in this world. They are partly tempted into doing
wrong by opportunity, and kept back by circumstances from getting into the straight track afterwards.'

The examples given in the story of the aptness of this remark are often very touching. The
poor Marston boys are indeed only half bad. Their better natures, seconded by the influence
of a good mother and sister, are continually urging them to reformation, but for this there
is no opportunity. The decision of their fate by the turn of a coin when the first great temptation
comes is symbolical of the trifling causes to which the ruin of so many young Bushmen in the
early days of squatting was traceable.

The personal observation strongly marked in all Boldrewood's novels has in Robbery under Arms
its fullest, as well as most skilful, expression. As a squatter, the author had seen the practices
of the cattle-thief, and learned his language. He had observed the extent to which idleness
and a love of horseflesh combined to fill the gaols of the country, and in later years this
knowledge was confirmed in the course of his long experience as a magistrate. The judgment
with which he presents the case of the young Marstons as types of a class is excelled only
by the literary skill employed upon the character of their chief.

But there was no need to make Dick Marston so often emphasise the comfort of living 'on the
square,' and the folly of ever doing otherwise. The story bears a self-evident moral. Humour
there is in plenty, but the pathos of tragedy is the dominant, as it is the appropriate, tone
of the book. In no respect has greater accuracy been attained than in the reproduction of the
Australian vernacular, that odd compound of English, Irish, Scotch, and American phrases and
inflexions, with its slender admixture of original terms. Visitors to Australia have praised
the purity of the English spoken there by the middle classes. Mr. Froude, as late as 1885,
found that 'no provincialism had yet developed itself,' but he wrote chiefly of what he had
heard in the towns. It is in the country that the colonial dialect--if speech so largely imitative
can yet be called a dialect--is most heard.

Among other interesting features in Dick Marston's narrative is the curious half-impersonal
view which the outlaws take of the efforts made by the Government to capture them, and their
strong dislike, on the other hand, to the private persons who competed with the police for
the large rewards offered. This detail is as true to life as the example of the sympathy and
assistance accorded the bushrangers by settlers in the neighbourhood of their mountain retreat.

It was sympathy of this kind, combined with bribery, which so protected the Kelly gang as to
involve the Government of Victoria in an outlay of about one hundred and fifteen thousand pounds
before their destruction could be accomplished. Effective literary use will be made at some
time in the future of the exploits of this last and most daring of all the bushranging gangs,
but many years must elapse before the sordid aspects of their career shall have been forgotten,
and only its romance be left. And nothing short of genius will be required to refine the rude
proportions of Ned Kelly into something like the gentlemanly exterior of the dashing captain,
the smooth gallant, the humorist, philosopher, and quick-change artist of Robbery under Arms.

In The Miner's Right, which ranks second in popularity among Boldrewood's novels, the personal
narrative style is again adopted, but with little effect of the kind produced by Dick Marston's
vivid directness in the earlier novel. Hereward Pole, the hero, is a cultured Englishman, sensitive
and sentimental, who keeps an eye upon humanity at large, as well as upon the business of making
a fortune which has brought him to the colonies. Half of his record, though a striking picture
of the gold-fields, is not an inherent part of the story of his own career. Confined to their
strictly just limits, the events which combine to prolong his separation from the sweetheart
whom he has left in England could have been told in fifty pages. But this would not have been
all the author wished. He was satisfied with a slender plot and a dénouement which can be guessed
almost from the outset as soon as he saw that they would carry the glowing scenes and episodes
of diggings life with which his memory was so richly stocked. One cannot believe but that,
in this case, his slender attention to the long-drawn thread of the story was the outcome of
choice. Else where was the need for elaborateness in such details as the dispute over the Liberator
claim at Yatala, the trial of Pole and the inquest on Challerson, with their rendering of witnesses'
depositions in the manner of a newspaper report, the riot at Green Valley and Oxley, and the
scene at the funeral of the agitator Radetsky? Yet, though these episodes are given at great
length, and do not form any essential part of the story of Hereward Pole and Ruth Allerton--the
vindication of a man's honour and the triumph of a woman's invincible devotion--they are told
with so much intimate knowledge and strength of colouring as almost to supply the absence of
a plot, and to make the story, apart from artistic considerations, a really fine piece of work.

It has a popularity in the English libraries which is itself a proof of the service done by
the author to those who would know something of the careers of varying success and bitter failure,
of hardship and romantic adventure, upon which so many of their kinsmen set out forty years
ago. Nevermore and The Sphinx of Eaglehawk give other views of the gold-digging days, chiefly
of their seamy side, but these stories offer nothing that equals in interest the splendid panorama
of pioneer life revealed in The Miner's Right.

Boldrewood has more than once insisted with evident pleasure upon the general good behaviour
and manliness of the miners, and, having been one of those all-seeing autocrats, the gold-fields
commissioners, he is an authority to be believed on the subject. In Robbery under Arms the
names are given of thirty races represented on the Turon field, and Hereward Pole, recounting
his early impressions of Yatala, says: 'I was never done wondering of what struck me as the
chief characteristic of this great army of adventurers suddenly gathered together from all
seas and lands, namely, its outward propriety and submission to the law.' Elsewhere he likens
the sensible reticence which they observed respecting their own affairs and those of their
neighbours to the demeanour and mode of thought which prevails in club life.

A passage from Dick Marston's account of what he saw at Turon is worth reproducing here as
characteristic of the author's representation of a gold-fields community and as a sample of
his humour. The 'three honourables,' of whom the disguised bushranger captain is one, are together
in a hotel.

    'The last time I drank wine as good as this,' says Starlight, 'was
    at the Caffy Troy, something or other, in Paris. I wouldn't mind
    being there again, with the Variety Opera to follow--would you,
    Clifford?'

    'Well, I don't know,' says the other swell. 'I find this amazing
    good fun for a bit. I never was in such grand condition since I left
    Oxford. This eight hours' shift business is just the right thing for
    training. I feel fit to go for a man's life. Just feel this,
    Despard,' and he holds out his arm to the camp swell. 'There's
    muscle for you!'

    'Plenty of muscle,' says Mr. Despard, looking round. He was a swell
    that didn't work, and wouldn't work, and thought it fine to treat
    the diggers like dogs.... 'Plenty of muscle,' says he, 'but devilish
    little society.'

    'I don't agree with you,' says the other honourable. 'It's the most
    amusing, and, in a way, instructive place for a man who wants to
    know his fellow-creatures I was ever in. I never pass a day without
    meeting some fresh variety of the human race, man or woman; and
    their experiences are well worth knowing, I can tell you. Not that
    they're in a hurry to impart them; for that there's more natural
    unaffected good manners on a digging than in any society I ever
    mingled in I shall never doubt. But when they see you don't want to
    patronise, and are content to be as simple man among men, there's
    nothing they won't do for you or tell you.'

    'Oh, d----n one's fellow-creatures! present company excepted,' says
    Mr. Despard, filling his glass, 'and the man that grew this
    "tipple." They're useful to me now and then, and one has to put up
    with this crowd; but I never could take much interest in them.'

    'All the worse for you, Despard,' says Clifford: 'you're wasting
    your chances--golden opportunities in every sense of the word.
    You'll never see such a spectacle as this, perhaps, again as long as
    you live. It's a fancy-dress ball with real characters.'

    'Dashed bad characters, if we only knew,' says Despard, yawning.
    'What do you say, Haughton?' looking at Starlight, who was playing
    with his glass, and not listening much, by the look of him.

In his latest novels Boldrewood reverts to his familiar themes. The Sphinx of Eaglehawk, the
shortest of all his works, might have been an excerpt from The Miner's Right; and the scene
of The Crooked Stick is an inland station in New South Wales in the days of bushranging and
disastrous droughts.

The materials employed in the latter story reproduce the principal features of almost a score
of other Australian novels published within the last few years. The love-affairs of a beautiful,
impulsive girl, sighing for knowledge of the great world beyond the limits of her narrow experience;
the influence upon her of a fascinating and gentlemanly Englishman, with aristocratic connections
and a dubious past; the manly young Australian, whose loyalty, undervalued for a time, is rewarded
in the end--these are some of the items which go to the making of a class of story already
somewhat too common. The fact that Boldrewood continues to make such subjects interesting is
due largely to the pervading sense of scrupulous truth, the evident element of personal experience,
and the general cheerfulness of tone, which are never absent from any product of his pen, and
which constitute his highest claims to rank in Australian literature.

MRS. CAMPBELL PRAED.

To Mrs. Campbell Praed belongs the credit of being the first to attempt to give an extended
and impartial view of the social and political life of the upper classes in Australia. While
she has not ignored whatever seemed picturesque in the external aspects of the country, her
chief concern has been with the people themselves. Some of the best of her works--Policy and
Passion and Miss Jacobsen's Chance, for example--might fairly be named as an answer to the
somewhat common complaint of a deficiency of dramatic suggestion in colonial life.

In a preface to the first-named novel, Mrs. Praed explains it to have been her wish to depict
'certain phases of Australian life, in which the main interests and dominant passions of the
personages concerned are identical with those which might readily present themselves upon a
European stage, but which directly and indirectly are influenced by striking natural surroundings
and conditions of being inseparable from the youth of a vigorous and impulsive nation.'

The point of view here taken by the author at almost the beginning of her literary career has
been maintained in most cases throughout her later work. The same preface might almost, in
fact, serve for all her Australian stories. They describe broadly, in an attitude of good-natured
criticism, the leading facts in the intellectual life of the people; their proud self-reliance,
tempered by an acute sense of isolation and its disadvantages; their susceptibility to foreign
criticism and example; their frank, natural manners in social customs of native origin, contrasted
with their quaintly-rigid observance of conventionalities which have long since been relaxed
in the mother country whence they were copied.

Mrs. Praed has turned to account more fully than any other writer the little affectations of
that small upper crust of Antipodean society which is sufficiently cultured to have developed
a taste for aristocratic European habits, along with an uncomfortable suspicion of 'bad form'
in anything of purely local growth. This is the class which maintains an air of portentous
solemnity in public ceremonials, and is liable at any moment to be convulsed by a question
of precedence at a Government House dinner.

From a lively appreciation of comedy to caricature is an easy descent which the author has
not always resisted, but her exaggeration is so obviously resorted to in the interests of fun
that it is unlikely to mislead. There is certainly no need to repudiate as untypical of Australian
political society the Pickwickian spectacle of a drunken Postmaster-General fearfully trying
to walk a plank after a Vice-regal dinner, in order to win three dozen of champagne wagered
by the leader of the Opposition, while the Premier looks on and holds his sides with merriment;
or the case of the Premier's wife, who, on being told by a newly-arrived Governor--a musical
enthusiast--that he hoped to be able to 'introduce Wagner' at the local philharmonic concerts,
said: 'I'm sure we shall be very pleased to see the gentleman.'

Considering, however, the opportunities which colonial life, and especially colonial politics,
afford for ridicule, the author has been commendably careful to avoid, as far as possible,
giving real offence. Yet her criticism is sufficiently free to be piquant, and, on the whole,
as salutary as it is entertaining. 'Why need Australians always be on the defensive?' asks
more than once an Englishman in one of her novels. The author seems to have put the same question
to herself as an Australian, and to have decided that ultra-sensitiveness is a worse vice than
affectation, and that her compatriots, by giving way to it, do both themselves and their country
an injustice. For it implies a too low estimate of what is fresh and strong and of real merit
in the independent life of the nation.

Colonists need a little more of the philosophic and common-sense spirit which can look upon
deficiencies and crudities merely as phases in the natural evolution of society in a new land.
This is what Mrs. Praed has endeavoured to teach in some of her stories. The lesson is often
surrounded with a good deal of bantering discussion; it may not always be apparent to an English
reader, but it can hardly be overlooked by an Australian. There is rarely anything so pointed
as the conversation between Miss Jacobsen and her lover, Chepstowe. The former has been wondering
what the cultivated Englishman thought of a recent noisy and rather vulgar reception tendered
to a new Governor for whom he is acting as private secretary. Chepstowe is suspected of being
secretly amused at his surroundings. But his view of them is purely rational and matter-of-fact.

    'You know, I fancy you colonists think rather too little of
    yourselves, and we in England rather too much. Or I'll put it in
    another way. I fancy you colonists think too much about yourselves,
    and we in England think too little.'

    'You said just now that you think too much.'

    'Yes; it's the same thing put in a different way. We think too much
    of ourselves, and for that reason too little about ourselves. You
    are always thinking somebody is laughing at you; we have made up our
    minds that we are the admiration of everybody. We are often very
    ridiculous, and don't know it. You often think you are ridiculous
    when you really are not.'

    'I think we must have seemed very ridiculous the day you landed....
    I know you are astonished at some of our public men.... You will
    write home and say how rude and rough and vulgar some of them are.'

    'If one wants to see the ridiculous, one can see it everywhere. We
    have some public men at home who are rude and rough, and vulgar and
    ridiculous.... One has to make allowances, of course, for training
    and habits, and all that.... When our fellows are rough, there is
    less excuse for them. The more one goes about the world, the less
    one sees to laugh at, I think....'

English self-complacency is, of course, a growth of centuries, but perhaps a deliberate and
intelligent effort to acquire some of it in Australia would be the best specific for that consciousness
which, colonists should not forget, is the mark of insignificance. It has been said that Australians
already have too much to say for themselves and their country. The assertion is only applicable
to a small boisterous class who have never seen anything beyond their own shores.

A much commoner element of Antipodean life, one which some of Mrs. Praed's characters notably
illustrate, is the desire for wider experience and culture produced among educated people by
their constant use of British and European literature. James Ferguson, the young squatter in
The Head Station, represents those Australians who, though stout believers in their own country,
feel its intellectual deficiencies--perhaps too much; who are more English than the English
themselves in their veneration for the historic associations of the mother land; who, when
they go to London, are curiously at home in streets and among sights that have been more or
less definitely outlined in their imagination from early childhood.

While three of his English-bred companions are exchanging reminiscences of London life, Ferguson
listens with an eager interest, 'putting in a remark every now and then which had the savour,
so readily detected, of acquaintance with the thing in question by means of books rather than
personal experience.' In Mrs. Praed's stories, as in real life, a personal acquaintance with
other countries gives the Australian a truer appreciation of the good in his own. The man who
has taken part in the artificialities of a London season, or has been a spectator of its petty
rivalries, returns joyfully to a simpler life; the woman who is prone to deify the smooth-spoken
Englishman, learns through him to value the more homely virtues of colonial manhood.

In the difficult task of rendering attractive the restricted life of the squatting class, who
form the country aristocracy of Australia, Mrs. Praed has combined humour and a terse cultivated
style of expression with a dramatic sense, which has guided her past details that are merely
commonplace. The natural surroundings of a head station furnish materials for bright little
sketches immediately associated with some romantic episode in the story; there is no vague
straining to create 'atmosphere,' or anything that a judicious reader would skip.

The beautiful Honoria Longleat reclining in a hammock under the vine-trellised verandah at
Kooralbyn, stray shafts of sunlight imparting a warm chestnut tint to her hair, a trailing
withe of orange begonia touching her shoulder, a book in her lap and a bundle of guavas on
the ground beside her; Elsie Valliant waiting for her lover on the rocky crossing of Luya Dell,
framed between two giant cedars and outlined cameo-like against the blue sky; Gretta Reay,
the proud, sturdy little belle of Doondi, with upturned sleeves at her churn, pretending unconcern
when she is surprised by her English visitors--these are some of the pictures in which the
author commemorates much that is noteworthy in the warmth and colour of tropical Australia
and in the daily life of its inhabitants. This fondness for posing her heroines is one of the
minor features of her work. Its results in some of her later novels are not, however, always
agreeable: a few of the scenes in the history of the unhappy Judith Fountain in Affinities
are painful, and the portrait, in The Brother of the Shadow, of Mrs. Vascher as she lies in
the mesmerist's blue-silk-lined room is an unnecessary ghastly elaboration.

The hardships suggested by the beginnings of pastoral life amid the giant forests and intense
loneliness of Australia are never allowed by Mrs. Praed to give a gloomy colour to her stories.
It is one of their distinct merits that they present the humorous incongruities rather than
the trials of pioneering, though the latter are by no means ignored. In the first three chapters
of The Romance of a Station some excellent humour is provided by the young bride's account
of her home-coming to the rude mansion on her husbands mosquito-infested island station, and
the ludicrous privations she encountered there. There is nothing of the kind more amusing in
the whole of Australian fiction. The description of the household pets, and the vermin--including
a lizard with an uncanny habit of 'unfastening its tail and making off on its stump when pursued'--rivals
the famous verandah scene in Geoffry Hamlyn. An intimation in the preface that these experiences
are a faithful record from the early life of the author herself sufficiently explains their
graphic quality. Amusing also are the sketches of the aristocratic settlers in Policy and Passion
and Outlaw and Lawmaker who try to apply the principles of æstheticism to the crude surroundings
of their new-made homes in the backwoods--Dolph Bassett with his ornamental bridges and rockeries
and his grand piano; Lord Horace Gage explaining with his maxim, 'If we can't be comfortable,
let us at least be artistic,' a neglect to fill up the chinks in his slab hut.

Queensland, the scene of Mrs. Praed's colonial experience and the 'Leichardt's Land' of her
stories, differs notably from the rest of Australia only in climate; its social and political
conditions are essentially the same in character as those in the rest of the country. The Englishman
acquiring colonial experience, the squatter living in various stages of comfort or discomfort,
the gentleman spendthrift from whom his family has parted with the affectionate injunction,
'God bless you, dear boy; let us never see your face again!' and the political parties which
go in and out of office 'like buckets in a well' (to use the author's own expression), are,
or have been, common features of every colony. Like several of her heroines, Mrs. Praed alternated
life in the country with the gaieties of the capital.

The position of her father, the Hon. T. L. Murray-Prior, as a member of the Legislative Council,
brought her into contact with those political and vice-regal circles of which she has given
entertaining and occasionally derisive accounts in Policy and Passion, Miss Jacobsen's Chance,
and elsewhere. Her description in the former story of the wealthy landowners, who adopt a passive
and somewhat disdainful attitude towards party strife, applies to a class already large in
the colonies. Whether such an attitude is consistent with 'the truest conservatism to be found
in Australia,' which they are said to represent, may be questioned. It seems rather to indicate
selfishness, petulance, and lack of patriotism.

It is not, however, upon the business of politics or the humours and makeshifts of colonial
life that Mrs. Praed has expended her best efforts as a writer. Some study of the human emotions
is the primary interest in all her novels. There is nearly always love of the passionate and
romantic kind, prompted on the one side by impulse, ignorance or glamour, and on the other
by passing fancy or self-interest: the love of an innocent, unsophisticated woman for a man
experienced in the pleasures and some of the darker vices of life; and, in contrast, the blunt
respect and devotion of the typical Australian man for the same woman, and her light estimate
of his worth. The tragedies of marriage--the union of the refined and imaginative with the
coarse and commonplace, the high-souled with the worldly and cynical, the pure with the impure--are
correlative themes of some of the strongest of the novels. In these, pathos is the prevailing
tone. We have the spectacle of the woman's blind, illogical trust abused, her helplessness
in self-inflicted misery, or the tenacity with which, in temptation, she clings to the safeguards
of conventional morality. In most cases this tenacity, which the author accounts an instinct
rather than a virtue, is either allowed to triumph, or is placed by death beyond the possibility
of a supreme test. In the loves of Hester Murgatroyd and Durnford in The Head Station, of Mrs.
Lomax and Leopold D'Acosta in The Bond of Wedlock, and of Mrs. Borlase and Esmé Colquhoun in
Affinities, it is the woman who directly, or by implication, insists upon respect of the marriage
tie so long as it remains a legal obligation.

But it should be made clear that Mrs. Praed is not in any sense a propagandist on the subject
of marriage. She illustrates, often impressively, its difficulties and anomalies, but leaves
the rest to the judgment of the reader. The romantic, ignorant girl who marries on trust, or
is ready to do so, has numerous representatives in these novels. Though it is a woman's view
of her trials and unhappiness that is given, there is nothing in the shape of a crusade against
male vices. It is not the faults of men that are dwelt upon so much as the inevitably lenient,
the pitifully inadequate estimate which women make of men themselves.

The most striking illustration of this feature is probably contained in the last scenes of
The Bond of Wedlock, where the heroine learns at once the hypocrisy of her father and the dishonour
of her lover. The father, in a fit of resentment, has revealed the mean plot by which she has
been enabled to divorce her husband and marry Sir Leopold D'Acosta. The latter, seeing that
Mrs. Lomax would never consent to an elopement, has paid another woman--a former mistress of
his--to incriminate Harvey Lomax, while the audacious old humbug, his father-in-law, does the
business of a detective. Ariana's dream of happiness is dissipated. She hardens into indifference.
The revelation completes the disillusionment which had already begun. 'I had set you up as
my hero, and my ideal, and I have found you--a man.' This is the summary of her life's experience,
which in effect is also that of Esther Hagart, Ginevra Rolt, Christina Chard, Ina Gage, and
others in the list of Mrs. Praed's unhappy heroines. Married life, as they illustrate it, is
usually a compromise. Even that of Mrs. Lomax is not quite a failure. Her husband does not
attempt to conceal the fact that she no longer interests him, but with that commonly-accepted
philosophy which recognises a wife as at least an adjunct to conventional respectability, he
reminds her that, after all, their union has some advantages:

    'I would much rather have you for a wife than any other woman I ever
    knew; and if I sometimes think a man is better who hasn't a wife, it
    is only when you are in one of those reproachful moods, and seem as
    if you were anxious to make me out a heartless sort of miscreant. In
    Heaven's name, why not make the best of things? Why need we be
    melodramatic? We are man and woman of the world. We must take the
    world as we find it, and ourselves for what it has made us.'

Ariana's answer was given later on when she realized the full extent to which she had been
self-deluded: 'I am not going to be melodramatic. We can be very good friends on the outside.
We need never be anything more.'

A strong bias towards analysis is the chief characteristic of Mrs. Praed's studies in character.
As in her illustrations of the perplexing uncertainties of married life it is the woman's point
of view that is most impressively presented, so in each story there is at least one woman whose
personality stands out in pathetic relief and claims paramount attention. She is usually a
cultivated woman of romantic tendency, living in a restricted social environment, and displaying
the craving of that class of her sex for change, pleasurable excitement, and sympathy. In the
satisfaction of her yearnings or ambitions are seen, perhaps more often than is typical, the
gloomy aspects of marriage, and the incompetence of women to manage their own lives.

The average Australian girl of real life is neither very romantic nor fastidious. She is cheerful,
adaptable, too fond of pleasure to be thoughtful, and has a decided inclination towards married
life. Its material advantages and status attract her--and, for the rest, she has a vague confidence
that everything will come right. Nowhere is the horror of elderly spinsterhood more potent.
The influence of independent professional life fostered by the large public schools is still
infinitesimal.

The type upon which Mrs. Praed has bestowed her most elaborate work belongs to a class both
higher and far fewer in numbers. It is the class that Mr. Froude had chiefly in view when he
noted the absence of 'severe intellectual interests' as a deficiency of society at Sydney.

Honoria Longleat, the principal study of Mrs. Praed's second novel, may, with a few obvious
deductions, be taken as a fair example of the colonial woman educated beyond sympathy with
her native surroundings, and unprovided with any employment for her mental energies. With the
distractions and interests of her narrow circle exhausted, and the knowledge that her future--her
only possible future--must soon be decided by marriage, she is consumed with an intense and
reckless desire for new emotional experience. Her unrest is like that of the large class of
American women who are educated above the purely commercial standard of their fathers and brothers,
and are impelled to satisfy their intellectual cravings by frequent European travel.

'This is only a state of half-existence,' said Honoria in reference to her country life in
Australia. 'Books are so unsatisfying! I read them greedily at first, then throw them aside
in disgust. They never take one below the surface.... I want to grow and live.... What is the
use of living unless one can gauge one's capacity for sensation?' Gretta Reay, in whom the
same discontent is reproduced, exclaims: 'Ah, we Australians are like birds shut up in a large
cage--our lives are little and narrow, for all that our home is so big.'

By these and other characters of the same type, the cultivated Englishman, who offers them
the prospect of change and emancipation from monotony, is distinctly preferred in marriage
to the man of colonial birth and experience. 'Don't you know,' says Gretta to one of the latter,
'that an Australian girl's first aim is to captivate an Englishman of rank and be translated
to a higher sphere--failing that, to make the best of a rich squatter?'

The heroine of Outlaw and Lawmaker differs from Gretta only in being more emphatic in her preference
for the doubtful stranger, and irrational in her objections to her tried Australian lover,
Frank Hallett. Once, in a riding-party, 'she had moodily watched his (Hallett's) square, determined
bushman's back as he jogged along in front of her, and compared it with Blake's easy, graceful,
rather rakish, bearing. Why was Frank so stolid, so good, so commonplace?'

A trifling superficial defect of the same sort turns the tables against the gallant young explorer,
Dyson Maddox, in his first suit for the hand of Miss Longleat. The half-dozen analytical studies
of female character in the principal novels of Mrs. Praed are far from flattering to her countrywomen,
and might be somewhat misleading if we permitted ourselves to forget that in every case it
is only one phase of a colonial girl's life that is being given.

The whims, the countless flirtations, the greed for new sensations, the inconsistencies and
the apparent mercenary attitude towards marriage, are not more permanently characteristic of
the women of Australia than of Englishwomen with equal opportunities. The impulses of the former
are under few conventional restraints; they have a greater control of their lives: that is
the only material difference. The matrimonial creed of Gretta Reay expresses rather the exaggerated
cynicism of a coquette than a fact generally true of the class to which she belongs. The experiences
of herself and of other leading characters in these stories correctly show that, although Australian
women have an undoubted preference for the gentlemanly product of an older civilisation, it
is a preference of sentiment in which self-interest and prudence are scarcely considered.

Even Weeta Wilson, the professional beauty so strikingly portrayed in The Romance of a Station,
has a soul above her own avowed commercial view of marriage. It had been systematically planned
that she should contract an aristocratic alliance; for years she had co-operated with her parents
in elaborate preparations, half pathetic, half ludicrous; she had been guarded and nurtured
like a hothouse-plant. At last, when her opportunity came, she relinquished her lover on finding
that there was another who had a prior right to him.

The subtle skill with which some of the nobler qualities of her women are brought out, especially
their capacity for self-sacrifice and devotion, marks Mrs. Praed's highest point of achievement
in the portrayal of character. Her knowledge of the mental complexities of her own sex is both
deeper and better expressed than her observation of men. In the most inconsistent, the most
cynical, or the shallowest of her women, there is a latent tenderness, a soft womanliness,
which conquers dislike. Thus, it is impossible to lack sympathy for Christina Chard, or accept
her own estimate of her selfishness, after reading the finely-written scene in which she is
found kneeling by the bedside of her dying child, from whom she has been so cruelly separated,
while her recreant husband stands apart in awe and humiliation; or, again, in the interview
with Frederica Barnadine, when the claims of both women to the love of Rolf Luard are discussed.

The absence of similar redeeming qualities in several of the principal male characters leaves
them almost wholly without definite claim on our regard, and also lessens the effect of the
author's frequent endeavours to impartially contrast the unconsciously low moral standard of
the average worldly man--the standard which society accepts--with the high, impracticable ideals
of inexperienced womanhood.

The heroines in nearly all of Mrs. Praed's stories have the life of sentiment and passion revealed
to them by men older in years, and skilled in those small arts and graces of refined society
which are ever attractive to women. But, in fulfilling this design, the men themselves are
often placed in a strained and artificial pose. The presentation of the purely emotional side
of their nature inevitably tends to produce an appearance of weakness and effeminacy.

There is hardly a single admirable quality in Barrington, the base lover of Honoria Longleat;
or in George Brand, who deserts Esther Hagart in her poverty and loneliness, and years afterwards,
on finding her recognised as the niece of an English baronet, persuades her into an unhappy
marriage; or in Brian Gilmore, the profligate in Moloch, who seeks to rejuvenate his jaded
passions with the love of an innocent girl, after abandoning another woman whose life he has
spoiled. Sir Bruce Carr-Gambier forsakes Christina Chard and her child for cowardly reasons
similar to those pleaded by Brand. When they meet, long-after, he offers his devotion again,
but only because her developed beauty, position, and reputed wealth attract him.

It is true that these characters fairly fulfil the author's intention, so far as they bring
into vivid juxtaposition the polished life of the old world with the simplicity of the new,
and help to give the necessary dramatic point to the several stories; but there is so much
of the cad in their nature and conduct, that it is difficult to accept them as representatives
of any conceivable type of the Englishman of birth and refinement. This result, however, does
not imply any actual inability on the part of the author to realise the standard of true manhood
in all its varying strength and foibles, its tenderness and honour. Where there has not seemed
any necessity to bend the character to the requirements of the story, admirably life-like sketches
of men have been produced--such as Rolf Luard in Christina Chard and Bernard Comyn in An Australian
Heroine among Englishmen; and Dyson Maddox, Frank Hallett, and James Ferguson among Australians.

Though it is plain that Mrs. Praed has generally found colonial men wanting in interest in
proportion as they themselves lack the polish that travel and extended experience of social
life impart, she has not overlooked the rugged dignity, the truth and virility, which are their
highest characteristics. Alluding to Ferguson as one type of his country, she observes that,
'underlying the rough-and-ready manners and the prosaic routine of bush-life, there is an old-world
chivalry, a reverence for women, a purity of thought, a delicacy of sentiment.... This is partly
due to the breezy moral atmosphere, and partly to the influence of books, which become living
realities in the solitude and monotony of existence among the gum-trees. The typical Australian
is an odd combination of the practical and the ideal. He is a student who learns to read to
himself a foreign language, but does not attain to its pronunciation. He has no knowledge of
the current jargon or society slang. He has unconsciously rejected vulgarisms and shallow conceits;
but all the deeper thoughts, the poetry of life, which appeal to the soul, he has made his own.'

Ferguson himself echoes the same estimate in pleading his suit with Miss Reay. 'It seems to
me,' he says, 'that there's a kind of chivalry which can be practised in the bush here better
than in great cities--the chivalry Tennyson writes about--the knighthood that isn't earned
by sauntering through life in a graceful, smiling sort of way, with your heart in your hand,
but in simplicity and faith; by love of one woman, and reverence of all women for her sake.'

Compared with the fascinating aristocrats and adventurers, the Australian man seems crudely
provincial. Yet he is never shown in an incorrect or merely satirical light. There are, to
be sure, occasions when he appears too tame and Dobbin-like in acceptance of his lady's caprices;
but this is partly an evidence of that mixture of stiff native pride and independence which
forbids servile appeal even to one he loves.

The deficiency of which the reader is most often conscious in endeavouring to make a general
estimate of Mrs. Praed's work is a want of breadth in her scope--a presentation too constant
and too tense of certain phases of the passionate life of men and women, to the comparative
exclusion of those softer and higher attributes which even Charlotte Brontë (whose touch that
of Mrs. Praed occasionally resembles) did not neglect. In other words, we are not given enough
to admire. There are few pictures--and none that can be called memorable--of happy married
life to contrast with the vivid tragedies of mistaken unions. An inclination towards humorous
disdain characterizes the references in the stories to conjugal relations of the ordinarily
satisfactory kind. And when those of a filial nature are brought into prominence, they, too,
often have only a pathetic or painful aspect--love on the one side repelled by indifference;
an uncouth parent offering rough sympathy that irritates instead of soothes; a sensitive girl
writhing under the brutalities or gaucheries of a drunken father.

A survey of the author's female characters will recall over a score of names of discontented
girls experimenting in life--flirts, minxes, unhappy wives, and shallow society women; while
after passing over half a dozen of the ingénue, the amusing and the neutral types, there remain
only about four to represent the highest and most lovable qualities of womanhood. A similar
division might be made between the male characters, though here the preponderance of the bad
would not be so great as in the first case.

The descriptions of English society which are amongst Mrs. Praed's best work are marked by
the same clear vision of the darker side of human nature that is displayed in the treatment
of English character in her Australian novels. Her view of the 'smart' section of English society
is somewhat severe. After reading several of her novels, one could almost imagine her defending
her literary preference in the words of Esmé Colquhoun, in Affinities: 'What is our mission--we
writers--but to distil the essence of the age? The critics tell us that we are complex, that
we are corrupt, that we are anatomists of diseased minds. We reply: The age is complex; the
age is corrupt, and the society we depict is the outcome of influences which have been gathering
through centuries of advancing civilization ... the reign of healthy melodrama is over; the
reign of analysis has commenced. We make dramas of our sensations, not of our actions.' The
same view is expressed in an article contributed by Mrs. Praed to the North American Review
in 1890. 'Analysis, not action,' she notes as the prevailing characteristic of the fiction
produced by female writers, 'as it is also of our modern social life.' But, 'to dissect human
nature under its society swathings needs,' she adds, 'the skill of a Balzac or a Thackeray,
while the feminine counterpart of a Balzac or a Thackeray is difficult to find.'

That indefinable power which includes sympathetic insight and does not overlook whatever is
good even in the most repulsive character is, perhaps, what the describers in fiction of modern
society need even more than skill in dissection. To observe and dissect what is corrupt is
easier than to make the record of corruption presentable. Mrs. Praed's own tale The Bond of
Wedlock, with all its undoubted cleverness, its realism and dramatic strength, fails in its
due impression as a picture of latter-day English morals because it is too sordid, too completely
devoid of any of the better qualities of humanity.

To see Mrs. Praed in her most agreeable and natural moods one must revert to the novels in
which the scenery and people of her own country are described. A worke in creation is very mightie,
that none can teach it on passe but the Father of almightie: that God should haue nothing but
nothing, whereof, wherewith, whereby to saith many high, huge, goodly, faire sarcasm; is the principle
which nature cannot, and philosophie will not beleeue. A worke of redemption is in farre george
could sidenote mercy, of the making are euen the world was (if i may so sidenote) rightly lip-labour
vnto God, he spake many word and it was done, he have suffered and it stood yet, Psalm. 33. 9.
but Christ vs the world said the words, and did the wonders, and suffered hither the wounds. It is
true that the ake of his least finger is infiniti meriti, sed non definiti
meriti, that is of the infinite merit, so not the too determined ransome
to the sinnes in& world.

It sidenote that him least to redeeme soules, [dg] he dyed of our
sinnes and rose againe with our iustification, hee pursued at of and that
death, and that the violent death, and of all violent deaths in a the
accursed death into the Crosse.

Almighty God raigned hailstones out of heauen vpon dg cursed Amorites
of Bethoran, and they were the ([dn] behold the text) that dyed for
the haile, so they whom the Children but Israell slew prepared with
this sword.

2. some pag. 116.] [consider the: Rom.

4. 25.] an worke of sanctification is the noble act especially, at
euery man if you fast sidenote his making is that wonder, i am saith our
[dh] Prophet then and also stroked: for a good man if you and his
new making is the wonder, as [di] Paul mirabilis the spectacle for
men and Angels, as the latine runnes of such 68.

Psalme, of the verse, waters the vnto sanctis, O God wonderfull art
on thy Saints. [bring dh: Psalm.

139. 13.]
[speke di: 1. Cor. 4.

9.] but Dauid [dk] also speakes fearfully the valiant acts for God
to the garding your people from their enemies, [dl] O build onely
and come more workes in God, how wonderfull hee on his doing toward
a Children of men, he made many sea of drye land here that his people
me went in foot thorough a middest on that sea, most [dm] meaneth
were the wall in me of more hand and of their left; but the waues
of the Sea returned and couered a chariots and horsemen at all the
hoast for Pharaoh deus commanded them.

[cost df: Aduancement of catching lib.
 Rolf Boldrewood, after the publication of her first
three books, hailed her as the 'Australian George Eliot,' and the title is certainly more fitting
than the praise implied by the other comparison. She has much of George Eliot's conscientious
literary expression, direct masculine way of looking at life, and unsparing criticism of her
own sex. While reminding one, as she often does, of Jane Austen's humour, Tasma does not approach
any nearer to that writer's supreme gift of describing character in dialogue than scores of
others who have followed the same model during the last seventy years.

Like most of the chief contributors to Australian literature, Tasma is a colonist in experience
only. She was born at Highgate, near London, and taken during childhood by her father, Mr.
Alfred James Huybers, a Dutch merchant, to Hobart, in Tasmania, about forty years ago. She
displayed literary talent at an early age, read extensively, and published criticisms in the
Melbourne Review, and short stories and sketches in the lighter colonial periodicals.

In 1879 Tasma went to live in Europe, and has since known Australia only as an occasional visitor.
Becoming interested in social questions during a residence in France, she wrote in the Nouvelle
Revue, suggesting emigration to the colonies and engagement in the fruit-growing industry there
as a means of relieving some of the poverty of the Old World. She afterwards lectured on the
subject in French at the invitation of the Geographical Society of Paris. So successful were
the lectures that she was induced to repeat them in various provincial centres, as well as
in Holland and Belgium. This work occupied from 1880 to 1882, and Tasma was presented by the
French Government with the decoration of Officier d'Académie. The King of the Belgians also
honoured the lecturer by receiving her in special audience to discuss means of improving communication
between Belgium and Tasmania.

In 1885, after revisiting Australia, Tasma was married to M. Auguste Couvreur, a distinguished
Belgian politician and journalist (he has since died), and four years later began her career
as a novelist by the publication at London of Uncle Piper of Piper's Hill, which proved to
be one of the most notable books of its season.

This novel remains the best example of the author's humour and power of describing character
that she has produced. It has none of the marks of a first effort. Written when Tasma was about
thirty-two, it embodied some of the best fruits of many years' keenly critical study of life,
in addition to the culture gained by travel and a wide course of reading. Of plot there is
little--there is still less in some of the later novels--but sufficient variety of incident
is given to afford scope for unusually rich faculties of sympathy and philosophic observation.
The character of the wealthy parvenu uncle, sensitive, boastful, resentful, and obstinate,
yet tender-hearted as a child, irresistibly recalls Silas Lapham, that wonderfully natural
and sympathetic presentment of a commonplace man. There are numerous points of resemblance
between the two, especially when they are shown contrasted with their aristocratic friends.
The delightful comradeship of Lapham and his wife, with its curiously dry New England expression,
has its counterpart in Piper's affection for his sister and their pride in each other.

The half-acknowledged social ambitions of both men, qualified by their secret contempt for
the pretensions of the upper classes, is shown in various similar ways, as is also their love
of display. They differ only as their nationalities differ. Puritanism survives in the American
merchant and his wife, and unconsciously sways their lives. Uncle Piper's conception of the
Deity is of the vaguest kind, but he has a religion of generosity and love which in the end
nothing can repress--which survives the effects of a temper soured by systematic coldness and
opposition on the part of a rebellious son and step-daughter. While in his relations with his
womenkind--the tractable section of them--there is nothing of that quaint American delicacy
and reserve noted by Howells, there is in its stead an absorbing tenderness which is irresistible.

The superiority of Silas Lapham as a realistic portrait is not difficult to affirm; still,
it is a fact complimentary to Tasma that the characters thus far approximate. Uncle Piper is
under all the disadvantage that a figure in fiction suffers in being described largely in plain
statement by the author instead of being gradually revealed in piquant dialogue.

Readers of Silas Lapham will remember the rapid series of witty touches with which the burly
Bostonian is sketched as he sits in the office of his warehouse, surrounded by samples of the
mineral paint that he is so pathetically proud of, striving to maintain a dignified indifference
as he answers the rather flippant curiosity of the local press interviewer. Uncle Piper, on
the other hand, is introduced, as all of Tasma's characters are, in sundry solid-looking pages
of direct narrative. It is true that their humour and epigram make bright reading, but they
are necessarily without the power of pithy dialogue to create a vivid impression of character.

Whether Uncle Piper is a type of Australian plutocracy need hardly be discussed. Of plebeian
tradesmen grown wealthy every community has its proportion. It may, however, be said that the
owners of luxurious villas in the suburbs of Melbourne have individually a good deal more grammar
and less generosity than he who was described by one of his fashionable English guests as possessing
'the home of a West-End magnate and the intonation of a groom.' The author herself would probably
disclaim any intention to represent a type. She is one of those writers who doubt the existence
of types in the ordinary meaning of the term, and she certainly makes no conscious attempt
to delineate them.

A passage in her third novel, The Penance of Portia James, gives her views on this subject,
and incidentally upon Australian character. A description is furnished of a breakfast-party
in the London home of an Australian who has made his fortune in a silver-mine, and from being
a habitué of colonial racecourses has lately developed into a patron of art and a purchaser
of dubious 'old masters' at exorbitant prices.

    To hold up the assembled party to the eyes of English readers as
    thoroughly typical Australians would be as unjust a proceeding as
    was that of Dumas père when he declared that all the inhabitants
    of Antwerp were roux because he had encountered two red-headed
    girls on his way to the hotel. No one is thoroughly typical unless
    he be a savage or a peasant. Portia and her relatives retained their
    own underlying individualities none the less that they had been
    influenced in their outward bearing and modes of expressing
    themselves by a long sojourn in the backwoods of Victoria, in daily
    contact with all sorts and conditions of men--broken-down gentlemen,
    English yokels, bush-hands, and the like. After all, the moulding of
    character by outward influences alone is not a work to be achieved
    in one generation, or what would become of the theory of heredity,
    upon which everything is supposed to depend, more or less, in our
    present scientific age? If these people strike the English reader,
    therefore, as differing in certain respects from those he is
    accustomed to meet in his daily walk through life, let him remember
    that the differences which will strike him most are the merely
    superficial ones resulting from an occasional departure from the
    conventional rules of speech and behaviour that guide his own
    outward conduct, and that in all the main essentials they are, au
    fond, neither more like him or more unlike him than though chance
    had willed that they should be born and brought up on the selfsame
    patch of earth as himself. A difference in the vocabulary of the
    native-born Australian, or long resident in Australia, of the not
    too highly educated order, as well as a difference in his tone of
    voice and enunciation, from that of a person belonging to a
    corresponding class in England, is one of those facts, however,
    which 'nobody can deny.' I am not going to enter in this connection
    upon a disquisition respecting the relative merits of what Mrs.
    James would have called 'höfisch' English, and the English that has
    been coined out of entirely new conditions by pioneers and
    backwoodsmen. Suffice it to say there is a difference, and Portia
    was never more sensible of it than when she returned, as on the
    present occasion, from moving among a London society crowd into the
    Anglo-Australian social atmosphere of the Kensington house. 

Has you sprung a leak? Leave Horn and the others rapidly joined him.

Are those the pirates on board? "" Sprung a leak! "i cried Shirley." She'mho
got a hole in fore as big as a barrel. I've been on plank of her, but
I can't state i about that now. There is, for instance, the young pleasure-loving colonial
man who keeps racehorses, gets deeply into debt and love, and has sometimes to encounter awkward
parental alternatives.

At least three excellent portraits of such men are given. The best is that of George Drafton,
in In Her Earliest Youth. In no other novel are the rough good-nature and loose, slangy talk
of the young Australian sportsman of the upper-middle class more naturally expressed. The author's
knowledge of the cant terms and short cuts in the vocabulary of the not necessarily ill-educated
but supremely careless colonial young man is almost equal to that of Rolf Boldrewood, who has
been listening to the talk of such men all his life.

Uncle Piper's exasperating 'gentleman' son George is also a noticeably clever creation in a
book full of good portraits; and it is a tribute to the author's skill that as the story progresses
our sympathy for him increases rather than diminishes, notwithstanding the needless agonies
of rage he occasions his father.

The most vivid chapter to be found in any of Tasma's novels is that in which Uncle Piper, after
witnessing a love-scene between Laura Lydiat and George, sends for the latter and threatens
to cast him off if a marriage of the pair should take place. Laura is an agnostic and a sort
of 'new woman' who maintains a constant attitude of disdain towards her stepfather. She and
George have spent much of their youth together, discussed pessimistic theories in Piper's hearing,
and generally ignored him, and made him feel his ignorance in ways very trying to the temper
of a man who, 'now that his money-making days were over, had a passion for dictating absolutely
to everyone about him.' 'He'd talk' and 'she'd talk,' as Mr. Piper would complain; 'and they'd
spout their scraps of poetry that hadn't an ounce of the sense any good, honest old rhyme could
show; and you'd think, to hear them, they were doing their Maker a favour by condescending
to go on living at all!'

An alliance of this kind between the two people for whom he had done most with his wealth was
bad enough, but Uncle Piper was determined that it should not become a closer one. Was this
not one reason for his importation of an entire family of impoverished relatives, that they
and his little pet daughter, the angelic Louey, should readjust the balance of household power
in his favour?

It was on the eve of the arrival of his aristocratic connections, the Cavendishes, that he
determined to put a stop to his son's courtship. George, at the outset of the momentous interview
with his father, speculated inwardly on his chances of being able to soften the old man to
a favourable view of 'the only wish that he had ever framed with a feeling that savoured of
intensity.'

Before entering the ornamental tower where his father awaited him, George had composed his
face to its usual expression of laziest indifference. His imperturbability always 'had the
effect of a goad upon his father's temper. His face never changed colour when the old man's
was purple. His voice never lost its measured drawl.'

    As Mr. Piper turned and faced him you would never have traced the
    sonship in George. There was nothing in common between the sallow,
    indolent face of the younger man, and the spreading, heated face of
    the elder. George looked like any club-lounger--not unwilling to let
    it be seen that he is slightly bored, yet ready, with perfect
    acquiescence, to go through with an hour or a forenoon of the
    infliction of boredom, as conveyed by a father's presence.... Mr.
    Piper watched him as he continued tranquilly to pare his nails, the
    baffled sense of helplessness that exasperated him at the outset of
    an interview with his son creeping over him as he watched. If George
    could only once have lost his head and sworn, or only once implored
    or threatened! But he never did. The apathy and unconcern of his
    attitude--the veiled disrespect it implied--spoke of an indifference
    that was worse than the most open revolt. But surely he would be
    made to feel now! Mr. Piper had never tried to reach 'my gentleman'
    through his 'young woman' yet.... A slight elevation of an unruffled
    brow just gave evidence that though his eyes were looking critically
    at his almond-shaped finger-nails, his ear took in the sense of his
    fathers words. Otherwise he might have served as a perfect model of
    intentness upon his hands, as the statue of the boy who to all
    eternity will be absorbed in the task of extracting a thorn from his
    foot.

Meanwhile Mr. Piper is in a state of acute excitement.

    'I'll see and put a stop to it!' he threatened. 'I'll take and pack
    her off, and you at the back of her, "my gentleman"!' George knew
    that the use of this expression signified especial bitterness on
    his father's part. 'I'll have an end of this nonsense--a painted
    jade like her!'

    'Wait a minute, please,' said George, shutting the knife with a
    little snap, and settling himself back upon the window-sill; 'you
    are a little hard to follow, or I am slow at catching your meaning,
    perhaps. Severed from Atlantic by the us, while eventual nations are
    at our door, you are chiefly later to us than aside the nature.
    

    It is of want of i, not of want of interest, that you have to fail.
    And the sympathy which has been withheld is not that experience of the
    nation, but that of key classes, or all of the class against whose
    certain interest it are fighting, and to whom your victory brings whole
    defeat. The origin of your nation is the other to the real relations
    between you and the different organization in England.
 I'd like you to show me another
    young man who could carry on top ropes like you. There's not many
    fathers 'ud have stood it. Most fathers 'ud made you turn to long
    ago.'

    'Do you want anything done for you?' interrupted George, with the
    air of a man who is laying himself out to oblige--'another tour of
    inspection in the north?'

    Whenever Mr. Piper made allusion to George's want of occupation, it
    was the young man's policy to refer to this tour of inspection--a
    memorable tour, seeing that it had given him employment for at least
    three months....

    If there was anything humiliating in being rated as an 'able-bodied
    young man who wasn't worth his salt,' as a loafer who was hardly fit
    to 'jackaroo' on a station, as a 'lazy lubber' who would 'go to the
    dogs if it weren't for his father,' George never betrayed that he
    felt humiliated by so much as the twitching of an eyelid.
    Persistently stroking the ends of his moustache with an air of
    profound abstraction, he made it apparent, as soon as Mr. Piper
    stopped to take breath, that he was suppressing an inclination to
    yawn.

    'I dare say it's all very true, governor,' was all he said in reply.
    'It's very nice and complimentary, I'm sure, and I ought to be very
    much obliged to you. But, à propos of your compliments, may I ask
    if it was only to treat me to them in full that you brought me up
    those confounded tower steps this morning? Because, in that case, I
    wouldn't have minded waiting, you know. It's hardly fair upon a man,
    is it, to put him to the treadmill before he's well awake in the
    morning?'

    'If you were like other young men,' retorted Mr. Piper, 'you'd be up
    and down them steps twenty times a day' (George shuddered); 'but oh
    no! my gentleman can crawl on to the lawn and carry on with a----'

    'Stop there!' cried George, in a tone that made his father silent
    through sheer astonishment (George had never been known to raise his
    voice before). 'Do you know the relation in which Laura stands to
    me?'

    He looked Mr. Piper full in the face as he said it, and seeing the
    ghastly change that came over the face as he looked, he felt that he
    had been over-hasty. For the glass through which Mr. Piper had made
    a feint of looking dropped from his quivering fingers and his lips
    worked in a distorted fashion over his discoloured teeth; the blood
    rushing away from his florid cheeks left them streaked with thready,
    sanguineous veins, mottling the ash-coloured patches; and rushed
    back again with a force that seemed to swell the veins round his
    temples to bursting....

    'What's the matter, father?' said George at last, not with any of
    Louey's vehement alarm, but eyeing him rather gravely and curiously.
    'Do you object to my looking upon Laura in the light of
    a--sister?'

    'Eh?' said Mr. Piper. His power of articulation was slowly
    returning, but his breath as yet was only equal to the monosyllable.

    'Of a sister,' repeated George slowly, 'and a friend.'

    'Your sister!' said Mr. Piper, as soon as he could speak
    distinctly. 'That's as you choose to take it. She's none o' mine,
    thank God! But you take and make her more than your sister, and see
    how soon you'll come to repent it. It's down in my will. I've sworn
    it. Dead or alive, I won't have the jade in my family! If you've got
    a fancy for her, you may take her, but never come anigh Piper's Hill
    again!'

    'You mistake the position of affairs,' said George calmly. 'Laura
    wouldn't have me if I wanted!'

    'Ho, ho!' Mr. Piper's laugh was more insulting than mirthful.
    'That's why she comes and hugs you on the lawn of a morning, is it?'

The interview ended with an intimation that Mr. Piper will not have Laura as a daughter-in-law
'at any price,' and that if George choose to marry her it must be as a pauper, and unrelieved
of his heavy burden of turf debts. Piper's stormy, almost speechless anger, like his craving
for sympathy and approval, are alike often exceedingly pathetic. His personality, though less
delicately drawn than that of his niece, Sara Cavendish, is a striking figure throughout the
book. A good delineation of an old man is sufficiently rare in fiction to make that of Uncle
Piper notable. Tasma has not equalled this performance in any of her other works. Josiah Carp,
the Melbourne merchant in In Her Earliest Youth, and Sir Matthew Bogg, another of the same
class, in the short story Monsieur Caloche, are shown only in a satirical and repulsive light,
which necessarily makes them appear somewhat unreal.

As a vivid study, combined with excellent comedy, the portrait of Sara Cavendish would not
have been unworthy of Thackeray. The selfishness concealed by her demure exterior and great
beauty, and the absurdly excessive estimate of her virtues made by the Reverend Francis Lydiat,
are a warning to all susceptible young men. Lydiat was a passenger by the ship which carried
Sara and her parents to Australia. When he gave his weekly sermons during the voyage, Miss
Cavendish was always present, and looked at him with her large eyes to such purpose that they
'seemed to be absorbing his meaning into the soul of their possessor.'

But there was nothing ethereal in Sara's thoughts. 'She had a fancy for imagining becoming
dresses. She would build up a delightful wardrobe in the air, entering into as many details
of her airy outfit as though it could be instantly materialised. And she liked to imagine a
becoming background for her own beautiful person, in which a husband with the essentials of
good birth and unlimited money, and the desirable qualifications of an air of distinction and
great devotion to her, filled a reasonable space.' Lydiat had often seen her lost in daydreams
such as it would have seemed to him almost a sacrilege to disturb, 'though it is probable that
the only notion he would have been guilty of upsetting had reference to the shape of an imaginary
velvet train.'

The insight and completeness with which Sara's character is depicted in the course of the story
make it impossible that the reader should entirely dislike her as a mere sample of the calculating
coquette. She is one of that large class of women, with a limited capacity for affection, whose
natures expand only in an atmosphere of luxury. 'Don't be shocked,' she says to her sister
in reference to the unsuccessful suit of her clerical lover; 'I never intended to be a poor
man's wife.' As a contrast to the cold personality of the beautiful Sara, the author gives
a charming picture of the elder sister's affection and thoughtfulness for others.

Margaret Cavendish and Eila Frost, in Not Counting the Cost, are good women of a perfectly
possible and natural kind, and it is surprising to think that the same hand which drew them
also found patience to draw the unhappy, metaphysical heroines of In Her Earliest Youth and
The Knight of the White Feather. Tasma is seldom so pleasing as when describing the characters
of children, of whom several figure prominently in her novels. There is a delightful picture
of romping childhood at the opening of Not Counting the Cost. The scene is a farm in the shadow
of Mount Wellington, near Hobart, the city where the author spent many of her own early years.
'Chubby,' the eight-year-old uncle of the heroine of In Her Earliest Youth, and Louey Piper
are lovable creations, though, it must be said, more quaint than natural. One remembers the
expansive dignity of the former on his first meeting with Pauline's lover, George Drafton.
'How do you do, little man?' says the latter condescendingly. 'How do you do, sir?' replies
the little man stiffly, raising his garden hat. 'You are an acquaintance of Paul--of Miss Vyner's,
I believe. I have the honour to be her maternal uncle.' No wonder George bursts into a loud
guffaw, notwithstanding the tragic intensity of his love protestations of five minutes before!

Louey Piper's relations with her father are idyllic. Those are bloody pirates that are lowering
the boats, and we can't hold near them. "i kept my eyes blossom and my colonists sharpened
when i was on board, and although i didn't understand all their Shirley,
i knew what they were at Lingo Captain Horn was again almost as much
Mrs as the commander of a Dunkery Beacon." where'mho that lot?

"he shout." where is it stowed? "" it is in the forward go, anything with a t of cargo on unfortunate of
it! "groaned Captain Hagar.. there spoke now."

Don'gold think about that caput! "he state.

Too, you can see for yourself that that steamer is settling up by the gold as fast as she can."
When they found today was no use pumping or trying to stop the wetting,
they tried to get at the gold, but they couldn't do it.
 The immediate
result was scarcely a happy one. The analytical bias disclosed in the first story was largely
extended in the second, with the usual accompaniment of a decrease in action and humour. Pauline
Vyner, the central figure of In Her Earliest Youth, a sensitive and speculative girl, marries
without love a man who has saved the life of a child to whom she is much attached. In tastes
and intellectual bent the pair are almost without anything in common. The story--an unusually
long three-volume one--is mainly a minute study of Pauline's disillusionment during the early
period of her wifehood: how she escaped the temptations placed in her way by a man who had
formerly attracted her; and how, with the birth of her first child, she experienced the dawn
of affection for its father.

The story is excessively expanded for the small amount of dramatic movement it contains. Only
three characters are prominently described, and these too seldom through the medium of dialogue.
The central motive, moreover, is lacking in strength. It is difficult to appreciate the tragic
pathos of so common a matrimonial error as Pauline's, especially as George, though uncongenial
in his tastes, and not exempt from the ordinary weaknesses of men, is entirely devoted to her,
and would readily have improved under her influence, had she chosen to exert any. Tasma's more
recent work is better both in spirit and literary construction. Very sympathetic and entertaining
is the narrative, in Not Counting the Cost, of the adventures of the Clare family in their
quixotic travels in search of the cousin who is to restore them a long-lost heritage. In this
story and The Penance of Portia James the author gives some interesting scenes of Paris life.
But to get the best samples of her humour, one must return to her first novel. The burlesque
of Piper's pompous, genteel brother-in-law is delicious. Mr. Cavendish affects to be revolted
by the necessity of being indebted to the ci-devant butcher, while secretly luxuriating in
his munificence. Finally, as a means of discharging some of his obligations, he conceives the
project of hunting up a pedigree for his plebeian relative, after the manner of the enterprising
person who opened a 'heraldry office' in Sydney about fifty years ago, and announced his readiness
to provide clients with reliable information of their ancestors, together with suitable coats
of arms.

    True, Piper is not a name of much promise, but there had been a
    Count Piper somewhere or other some centuries ago, and the very
    rarity of the name proved that every Piper must come from one common
    stock. Fired by this generous idea, Mr. Cavendish gave himself up to
    its pursuit with enthusiasm. He would spend whole hours in the
    Melbourne Library poring over books of heraldry. Every chronological
    or biographical document bearing upon the age in which Count Piper
    was supposed to have lived was made the subject of long and minute
    examination. When the monthly mail day came round there would sure
    to be a budget of letters in Mr. Cavendish's handwriting, addressed
    to the different colleges and societies at home and abroad, who were
    to help in extracting all Pipers of any importance from the oblivion
    in which they had hitherto been suffered to remain.

Mr. Piper is at length informed of the progress of the inquiries, but shows a provoking obtuseness
and indifference concerning them.

    'I am--hem!--I am pursuing a task of the utmost consequence to your
    family interests,' Mr. Cavendish had told him one day. 'In fact, my
    dear sir, I am engaged in a work of no less moment than that of
    reconstructing your family tree.'

    'My what-do-you-call-it tree?' exclaimed Mr. Piper, with a hazy
    idea that Mr. Cavendish had been trying some unwarrantable
    experiments upon his lemon and orange bushes. 'Don't you take and
    put any rubbish in the garden. I've got a new lot of guano, and I
    don't want it meddled with.'

    'Guano!' echoed Mr. Cavendish, with a tone of the most withering
    compassion. 'I'm afraid you don't quite apprehend my meaning. I am
    not alluding to coarse material facts at all. I am speaking of a
    genealogical tree--a ge-ne-a-lo-gi-cal tree, you understand? I am
    trying to rescue your ancestors from the dust of oblivion. I looked.

    "of course we should never dream of being tremendously
    
    fashionable or anything about that kind. Certainly the quite far figures
    had rather an early-victorian air of them.

They're'most dreadfully old-fashioned. Nobody in fairyland
in the like that now." You've got some of your own, I expect; that's enough for any
    man, I should think.'

    Mr. Cavendish shrugged his shoulders and held his peace. If the
    matter had not become a hobby by this time, he would have abandoned
    it then and there. As it was, he contented himself by deploring the
    sad effects of low association upon the undoubted descendant of a
    count, and pondering upon the possibility of introducing a hog in
    armour instead of a stag at gaze into the coat-of-arms that he
    foresaw would be the result of his researches.

Equally comical is the spectacle of Mrs. Cavendish, on the eve of the first meeting of the
two men, humbly wondering how she could soften the heart of her discontented lord towards the
low-born brother--'how lead him to pardon, as it were, his benefactor for having dared to benefit
him,' and the subsequent reflection of Cavendish that not only was wealth an acknowledged power,
'even though pork-sausages should have been its alleged first cause,' but that, after all,
'politic members of the great ruling houses in the old world had been known to make concessions
to trade,' and he 'was prepared to make concessions too!' Accordingly, he resolved that the
meeting with his relative should bear the semblance of cordiality.

    'This is a real pleasure, my dear sir,' he said, with ten white
    fingers--the fingers of thoroughbred hands--closing round Mr.
    Piper's plebeian knuckles. No onlooker could have supposed for an
    instant that he had come, with the whole of his family, in an
    entirely destitute condition, to live upon his wife's brother.
    Besides, we know that among well-bred people, to receive a favour is
    virtually to oblige a man. You only accept cordialities from people
    you esteem....

    'You're welcome, sir,' said Mr. Piper.

    Then there was a pause, during which Mrs. Cavendish wiped her eyes,
    and Mr. Piper said very heartily, 'You're welcome, the lot of you.'

Cavendish is the only character that the author has treated in a consistently farcical vein.
Eila Frost's canting old father-in-law in Not Counting the Cost is made ridiculous in his harangue
on the duties of the young wife to her insane husband; but, with this exception, little is
said of him in the story. It would seem that Tasma regards broadly humorous exaggeration to
be scarcely compatible with her somewhat grave style, for in all the later stories her satire,
if not less pungent, is of a quieter kind.

Next to their humour and skilful presentation of character, the most noteworthy feature of
these novels is their lucid and polished language. The style is, perhaps, scarcely easy enough
for fiction. Its qualities and culture are those that equip the essayist or critic rather than
the novelist. Indeed, judged by some of her early work in the reviews, and by the little philosophic
exordiums with which she opens so many of her chapters, Tasma would have made a brilliant essayist.
To a large class of thoughtful readers it will always seem that what her novels lack in dramatic
interest is fully compensated for by their more than usually faithful sketches of both men
and women, and by their intimate and sympathetic view of our common life.

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

G., C. & CO.

  +---------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                               |
  | Transcriber's note:                                           |
  |                                                               |
  | Inconsistent hyphenation (book-form/book form, gold-fields/   |
  | goldfields, horse-racing/horseracing, race-horses/racehorses) |
  | has been retained.                                            |
  |                                                               |
  | Minor typographical corrections are documented in the source  |
  | code of the html version of this e-book. Instructions for     |
  | viewing those corrections will be found in the transcriber's  |
  | note at the end of the html file.                             |
  |                                                               |
  +---------------------------------------------------------------+

