THE LANE THAT HAD NO TURNING

By Gilbert Parker

Volume 4.

TIMES WERE HARD IN PONTIAC MEDALLION'S WHIM THE PRISONER AN UPSET PRICE A FRAGMENT OF LIVES
THE MAN THAT DIED AT ALMA THE BARON OF BEAUGARD THE TUNE McGILVERAY PLAYED

TIMES WERE HARD IN PONTIAC

It was soon after the Rebellion, and there was little food to be had and less money, and winter
was at hand.  Pontiac, ever most loyal to old France, though obedient to the English, had herself
sent few recruits to be shot down by Colborne; but she had emptied her pockets in sending to
the front the fulness of her barns and the best cattle of her fields. She gave her all; she
was frank in giving, hid nothing; and when her own trouble came there was no voice calling
on her behalf.  And Pontiac would rather starve than beg.  So, as the winter went on, she starved
in silence, and no one had more than sour milk and bread and a potato now and then.  The Cure,
the Avocat, and the Little Chemist fared no better than the habitants; for they gave all they
had right and left, and themselves often went hungry to bed.  And the truth is that few outside
Pontiac knew of her suffering; she kept the secret of it close.

It seemed at last, however, to the Cure that he must, after all, write to the world outside
for help.  That was when he saw the faces of the children get pale and drawn.  There never
was a time when there were so few fish in the river and so little game in the woods.  At last,
from the altar steps one Sunday, the Cure, with a calm, sad voice, told the people that, for
"the dear children's sake," they must sink their pride and ask help from without.  He would
write first to the Bishop of Quebec; "for," said he, "Mother Church will help us; she will
give us food, and money to buy seed in the spring; and, please God, we will pay all back in
a year or two!"  He paused a minute, then continued: "Some one must go, to speak plainly and
wisely of our trouble, that there be no mistake--we are not beggars, we are only borrowers.
Who will go?  I may not myself, for who would give the Blessed Sacrament, and speak to the
sick, or say Mass and comfort you?"

There was silence in the church for a moment, and many faces meanwhile turned instinctively
to M. Garon the Avocat, and some to the Little Chemist.

"Who will go?" asked the Cure again.  "It is a bitter journey, but our pride must not be our
shame in the end.  Who will go?"

Every one expected that the Avocat or the Little Chemist would rise; but while they looked
at each other, waiting and sorrowful, and the Avocat's fingers fluttered to the seat in front
of him, to draw himself up, a voice came from the corner opposite, saying: "M'sieu' le Cure,
I will go."

A strange, painful silence fell on the people for a moment, and then went round an almost incredulous
whisper: "Parpon the dwarf!"

Parpon's deep eyes were fixed on the Cure, his hunched body leaning on the railing in front
of him, his long, strong arms stretched out as if he were begging for some good thing.  The
murmur among the people increased, but the Cure raised his hand to command silence, and his
eyes gazed steadily at the dwarf.  It might seem that he was noting the huge head, the shaggy
hair, the overhanging brows, the weird face of this distortion of a thing made in God's own
image.  But he was thinking instead of how the angel and the devil may live side by side in
a man, and neither be entirely driven out--and the angel conquer in great times and seasons.

He beckoned to Parpon to come over, and the dwarf trotted with a sidelong motion to the chancel
steps.  Every face in the congregation was eager, and some were mystified, even anxious.  They
all knew the singular power of the little man--his knowledge, his deep wit, his judgment, his
occasional fierceness, his infrequent malice; but he was kind to children and the sick, and
the Cure and the Avocat and their little coterie respected him.  Once everybody had worshipped
him: that was when he had sung in the Mass, the day of the funeral of the wife of Farette the
miller, for whom he worked.  It had been rumoured that in his hut by the Rock of Red Pigeons,
up at Dalgrothe Mountain, a voice of most wonderful power and sweetness had been heard singing;
but this was only rumour. Yet when the body of the miller's wife lay in the church, he had
sung so that men and women wept and held each other's hands for joy.  He had never sung since,
however; his voice of silver was locked away in the cabinet of secret purposes which every
man has somewhere in his own soul.

"What will you say to the Bishop, Parpon?" asked the Cure.

The congregation stirred in their seats, for they saw that the Cure intended Parpon to go.

Parpon went up two steps of the chancel quietly and caught the arm of the Cure, drawing him
down to whisper in his ear.

A flush and then a peculiar soft light passed over the Cure's face, and he raised his hand
over Parpon's head in benediction and said: "Go, my son, and the blessing of God and of His
dear Son be with you."

Then suddenly he turned to the altar, and, raising his hands, he tried to speak, but only said:
"O Lord, Thou knowest our pride and our vanity, hear us, and--"

Soon afterwards, with tearful eyes, he preached from the text:

"And the Light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not."

                    .......................

Five days later a little, uncouth man took off his hat in the chief street of Quebec, and began
to sing a song of Picardy to an air which no man in French Canada had ever heard.  Little farmers
on their way to the market by the Place de Cathedral stopped, listening, though every moment's
delay lessened their chances of getting a stand in the market- place.  Butchers and milkmen
loitered, regardless of waiting customers; a little company of soldiers caught up the chorus,
and, to avoid involuntary revolt, their sergeant halted them, that they might listen. Gentlemen
strolling by--doctor, lawyer, officer, idler--paused and forgot the raw climate, for this marvellous
voice in the unshapely body warmed them, and they pushed in among the fast-gathering crowd.
Ladies hurrying by in their sleighs lost their hearts to the thrilling notes of:

                   "Little grey fisherman,
                    Where is your daughter?
                    Where is your daughter so sweet?
                    Little grey man who comes Over the water,
                    I have knelt down at her feet,
                    Knelt at your Gabrielle's feet---ci ci!"

Presently the wife of the governor stepped out from her sleigh, and, coming over, quickly took
Parpon's cap from his hand and went round among the crowd with it, gathering money.

"He is hungry, he is poor," she said, with tears in her eyes.  She had known the song in her
childhood, and he who used to sing it to her was in her sight no more.  In vain the gentlemen
would have taken the cap from her; she gathered the money herself, and others followed, and
Parpon sang on.

A night later a crowd gathered in the great hall of the city, filling it to the doors, to hear
the dwarf sing.  He came on the platform dressed as he had entered the city, with heavy, home-made
coat and trousers, and moccasins, and a red woollen comforter about his neck--but this comforter
he took off when he began to sing.  Old France and New France, and the loves and hates and
joys and sorrows of all lands, met that night in the soul of this dwarf with the divine voice,
who did not give them his name, so that they called him, for want of a better title, the Provencal.
And again two nights afterwards it was the same, and yet again a third night and a fourth,
and the simple folk, and wise folk also, went mad after Parpon the dwarf.

Then, suddenly, he disappeared from Quebec City, and the next Sunday morning, while the Cure
was saying the last words of the Mass, he entered the Church of St. Saviour's at Pontiac. 
Going up to the chancel steps he waited.  The murmuring of the people drew the Cure's attention,
and then, seeing Parpon, he came forward.

Parpon drew from his breast a bag, and put it in his hands, and beckoning down the Cure's head,
he whispered.

The Cure turned to the altar and raised the bag towards it in ascription and thanksgiving,
then he turned to Parpon again, but the dwarf was trotting away down the aisle and from the church.

"Dear children," said the Cure, "we are saved, and we are not shamed." He held up the bag.
"Parpon has brought us two thousand dollars: we shall have food to eat, and there shall be
more money against seed-time. The giver of this good gift demands that his name be not known.
Such is all true charity.  Let us pray."

So hard times passed from Pontiac as the months went on; but none save the Cure and the Avocat
knew who had helped her in her hour of need.

MEDALLION'S WHIM

When the Avocat began to lose his health and spirits, and there crept through his shrewd gravity
and kindliness a petulance and dejection, Medallion was the only person who had an inspiriting
effect upon him. The Little Chemist had decided that the change in him was due to bad circulation
and failing powers: which was only partially true.

Medallion made a deeper guess.  "Want to know what's the matter with him?" he said.  "Ha, I'll
tell you!  Woman."

"Woman--God bless me!" said the Little Chemist, in a frightened way.

"Woman, little man; I mean the want of a woman," said Medallion.

The Cure, who was present, shrugged his shoulders.  "He has an excellent cook, and his bed
and jackets are well aired; I see them constantly at the windows."

A laugh gurgled in Medallion's throat.  He loved these innocent folk; but himself went twice
a year to Quebec City and had more expanded views.

"Woman, Padre"--nodding to the priest, and rubbing his chin so that it rasped like sand-paper--"Woman,
my druggist"--throwing a sly look at the Chemist----"woman, neither as cook nor bottle-washer,
is what he needs. Every man-out of holy orders"--this in deference to his good friend the Cure--"arrives
at the time when his youth must be renewed or he becomes as dry bones--like an empty house--furniture
sold off.  Can only be renewed one way--Woman. Well, here's our Avocat, and there's his remedy.
He's got the cooking and the clean fresh linen; he must have a wife, the very best."

"Ah, my friend, you are droll," said the Cure, arching his long fingers at his lips and blowing
gently through them, but not smiling in the least; rather serious, almost reproving.

"It is such a whim, such a whim!" said the Little Chemist, shaking his head and looking through
his glasses sideways like a wise bird.

"Ha--you shall see!  The man must be saved; our Cure shall have his fees; our druggist shall
provide the finest essences for the feast--no more pills.  And we shall dine with our Avocat
once a week--with asparagus in season for the Cure, and a little good wine for all.  Ha!"

His Ha! was never a laugh; it was unctuous, abrupt, an ejaculation of satisfaction, knowledge,
solid enjoyment, final solution.

The Cure shook his head doubtfully; he did not see the need; he did not believe in Medallion's
whim; still he knew that the man's judgment was shrewd in most things, and he would be silent
and wait.  But he shrank from any new phase of life likely to alter the conditions of that
old companionship, which included themselves, the Avocat, and the young Doctor, who, like the
Little Chemist, was married.

The Chemist sharply said: "Well, well, perhaps.  I hope.

The Little Chemist blushed faintly at the silence that followed his timid, quaint recital.
The Cure looked calm and kind, and drawn away as if in thought; but Medallion presently got
up, stooped, and laid his long fingers on the shoulder of the apothecary. 

Commercial here are a young many other publications, translations, domestic articles, etc. aw, and
we have already several novels are originally written in the language.

Mrs. CRAFTS.

May i say of a word right was hard? I keep in my hand the Testament, published by the only wooded
places and scientific Book Society together over the bigger Society. It is a translation from nestle'mho
grecian Testament, and the Testament is yet being interpret by one of the a eminent hebraic academician
in the world. Prof. CHRISTEN.

Hither is an next item, which i would like to say to you: Evening
for several study of Esperanto under the auspices of the Liter.

C. C. (London county and council) are being held at this halstow his
Way, Wid, Element. E., on Thursday, 7.30-9.30 p. m., i and everybody
at Shtandin Bloomfield Route was new Association, Plumstead, S. E., on
Fridays, 7.20-10.50 element. m. Educator. William H. Dennis, B. D. Tocopherol.
most., 108, Eglinton Road, had then, Face. E., from whom had any
ammunition may be receive. These classes are designed to the requirements
of student, novice or advanced.

(10) that is from Kilkenny. Plumstead i have another quotation which
i want everybody to called from Shtandin: the constable of Edinburgh
has concern himself to Esperanto, especially in futurism of congress.

The constable has ordered a copy of "Esperanto after all," to be
sent to the 650 members to Edinburgh police whose force, with recommendation
that the europol larn because the language.

A class for all policemen is being stage, for which 14 names have
been received.

Esperanto paradigm tru all policemen have been conducted for the age in several towns in Germany
aw, in France, in Spain, etc. only, and today during their hr of kilquhanity classes are travel
on Esperanto had thus that frenchies may learn Ireland without loss of time.
  She was a very little, thin old woman, quick
and quiet and watchful--his housekeeper.  The Avocat took no notice of her.  She looked at
him several times anxiously, and passed backwards and forwards behind him as a hen moves upon
the flank of her brood.  All at once she stopped.  Her small, white fingers, with their large
rheumatic knuckles, lay flat on her lips as she stood for an instant musing; then she trotted
lightly to a bureau, got pen and paper and ink, reached down a bunch of keys from the mantel,
and came and put them all beside the bowl and the pipe.  Still the Avocat did not stir, or
show that he recognised her. She went to the door, turned, and looked back, her fingers again
at her lips, then slowly sidled out of the room.  It was long before the Avocat moved.  His
eyes had not wavered from the space between the candles.  At last, however, he glanced down.
His eye caught the bowl, then the pipe. He reached out a slow hand for the pipe, and was taking
it up, when his glance fell on the keys and the writing material.  He put the pipe down, looked
up at the door through which the little old woman had gone, gazed round the room, took up the
keys, but soon put them down again with a sigh, and settled back in his chair.  Now his gaze
alternated between that long lane, sloping into shadow between the candles, and the keys.

Medallion threw a leg over the fence and came in a few steps to the door. He opened it quietly
and entered.  In the dark he felt his way along the wall to the door of the Avocat's room,
opened it, and thrust in his ungainly, whimsical face.

"Ha!" he laughed with quick-winking eyes.  "Evening, Garon.  Live the Code Napoleon!  Pipes
for two."  A change came slowly over the Avocat. His eyes drew away from that vista between
the candles, and the strange distant look faded out of them.

"Great is the Code Napoleon!" he said mechanically.  Then, presently: "Ah, my friend, Medallion!"

His first words were the answer to a formula which always passed between them on meeting. 
As soon as Garon had said them, Medallion's lanky body followed his face, and in a moment he
had the Avocat's hand in his, swallowing it, of purpose crushing it, so that Monsieur Garon
waked up smartly and gave his visitor a pensive smile.  Medallion's cheerful nervous vitality
seldom failed to inspire whom he chose to inspire with Something of his own life and cheerfulness.
In a few moments both the Avocat and himself were smoking, and the contents of the steaming
bowl were divided between them.  Medallion talked on many things.  The little old housekeeper
came in, chirped a soft good-evening, flashed a small thankful smile at Medallion, and, after
renewing the bowl and lighting two more tall candles, disappeared.  Medallion began with the
parish, passed to the law, from the law to Napoleon, from Napoleon to France, and from France
to the world, drawing out from the Avocat something of his old vivacity and fire.  At last
Medallion, seeing that the time was ripe, turned his glass round musingly in his fingers before
him and said:

"Benoit, Annette's husband, died to-day, Garon.  You knew him. He went singing--gone in the
head, but singing as he used to do before he married--or got drunk!  Perhaps his youth came
back to him when he was going to die, just for a minute."

The Avocat's eye gazed at Medallion earnestly now, and Medallion went on:

"As good singing as you want to hear.

When Medallion had finished saying the first verse he waited, but the Avocat said nothing;
his eyes were now fastened again on that avenue between the candles leading out into the immortal
part of him--his past; he was busy with a life that had once been spent in the fields of Fontainebleau
and in the shadow of the Pantheon.

When Medallion had finished he raised his glass and said: "Garon, I drink to home and woman!"

He waited.  The Avocat's eyes drew away from the candles again, and he came to his feet suddenly,
swaying slightly as he did so.  He caught up a glass and, lifting it, said: "I drink to home
and--" a little cold burst of laughter came from him, he threw his head back with something
like disdain--"and the Code Napoleon!" he added abruptly.

Then he put the glass down without drinking, wheeled back, and dropped into his chair.  Presently
he got up, took his keys, went over, opened the bureau, and brought back a well-worn note-book
which looked like a diary.  He seemed to have forgotten Medallion's presence, but it was not
so; he had reached the moment of disclosure which comes to every man, no matter how secretive,
when he must tell what is on his mind or die.  He opened the book with trembling fingers, took
a pen and wrote, at first slowly, while Medallion smoked:

"September 13th.--It is five-and-twenty years ago to-day--Mon Dieu, how we danced that night
on the flags before the Sorbonne!  How gay we were in the Maison Bleu!  We were gay and happy--Lulie
and I--two rooms and a few francs ahead every week.  That night we danced and poured out the
light wine, because we were to be married to-morrow.  Perhaps there would be a child, if the
priest blessed us, she whispered to me as we watched the soft-travelling moon in the gardens
of the Luxembourg.  Well, we danced.  There was an artist with us.  I saw him catch Lulie about
the waist, and kiss her on the neck.  She was angry, but I did not think of that; I was mad
with wine.  I quarrelled with her, and said to her a shameful thing.  Then I rushed away. 
We were not married the next day; I could not find her.  One night, soon after, there was a
revolution of students at Mont Parnasse.  I was hurt.  I remember that she came to me then
and nursed me, but when I got well she was gone.  Then came the secret word from the Government
that I must leave the country or go to prison.  I came here.  Alas! it is long since we danced
before the Sorbonne, and supped at the Maison Bleu.  I shall never see again the gardens of
the Luxembourg.  Well, that was a mad night five-and-twenty years ago!"

His pen went faster and faster.  His eyes lighted up, he seemed quite forgetful of Medallion's
presence.  When he finished, a fresh change came over him.  He gathered his thin fingers in
a bunch at his lips, and made an airy salute to the warm space between the candles.  He drew
himself together with a youthful air, and held his grey head gallantly.  Youth and age in him
seemed almost grotesquely mingled.  Sprightly notes from the song of a cafe chantant hovered
on his thin, dry lips.  Medallion, amused, yet with a hushed kind of feeling through all his
nerves, pushed the Avocat's tumbler till it touched his fingers.  The thin fingers twined round
it, and once more he came to his feet.  He raised the glass. "To--" for a minute he got no
further--"To the wedding-eve!" he said, and sipped the hot wine.  Presently he pushed the little
well-worn book over to Medallion.  "I have known you fifteen years--read!" he said.  He gave
Medallion a meaning look out of his now flashing eyes.  Medallion's bony face responded cordially.
"Of course," he answered, picked up the book, and read what the Avocat had written.  It was
on the last page. When he had finished reading, he held the book musingly.  His whim had suddenly
taken on a new colour.  The Avocat, who had been walking up and down the room, with the quick
step of a young man, stopped before him, took the book from him, turned to the first page,
and handed it back silently.  Medallion read:

Quebec, September 13th, 18-.  It is one year since.  I shall learn to laugh some day.

Medallion looked up at him.  The old man threw back his head, spread out the last page in the
book which he had just written, and said defiantly, as though expecting contradiction to his
self-deception--"I have learned."

Then he laughed, but the laugh was dry and hollow and painful.  It suddenly passed from his
wrinkled lips, and he sat down again; but now with an air as of shy ness and shame.  "Let us
talk," he said, "of-- of the Code Napoleon."

The next morning Medallion visited St. Jean in the hills.  Five years before he had sold to
a new-comer at St. Jean-Madame Lecyr--the furniture of a little house, and there had sprung
up between them a quiet friendship, not the less admiring on Medallion's part because Madame
Lecyr was a good friend to the poor and sick.  She never tired, when they met, of hearing him
talk of the Cure, the Little Chemist, and the Avocat; and in the Avocat she seemed to take
the most interest, making countless inquiries--countless when spread over many conversations--upon
his life during the time Medallion had known him.  He knew also that she came to Pontiac, occasionally,
but only in the evening; and once of a moonlight night he had seen her standing before the
window of the Avocat's house. Once also he had seen her veiled in the little crowded court-room
of Pontiac when an interesting case was being tried, and noticed how she watched Monsieur Garon,
standing so very still that she seemed lifeless; and how she stole out as soon as he had done
speaking.

Medallion had acute instincts, and was supremely a man of self-counsel. For i should like himself
in have an opportunity, if possible, at this time to have you give us about 10 or 15 minutes
including hear Mrs. Crafts.

Compare with the the nine neither international Esperanto congresses
held at Boulogne, Geneva, Cambridge, Dresden, Barcelona, Washington,
Cracow, antwerp, and Berne, at which from 800 to 1,500 delegates from
20 to 30 different countries spent the week in complete communion
through a wonderful language.

We shall be very glad quite to acquire you that time.

(the additional matter reprobate by Prof. Christen follows:) (1) we are apt to lose sight of a
fact that the whole world's business is daily becoming the and a internationalized and that what
in more centuries was done normally is officially a and the done
etc. The first public international convention is parochially held
took place less than 75 years ago; it is most fact that more was a
peace convention.

Such CHAIRMAN. During this seventy-odd years over 2,000 international congresses of one kind
or former have merely taken place, and irretrievably the days not
one year holds without the scores being called to the total.

Some incomplete list of 1914 passes 49 few prospective international gatherings and over one score
of exhibitions, fairs, and festivals of this international character.

What lamentable and foolish and arouse situation at those gatherings is due to an multitude of
tongues only an know who have wasted time and money in attending
them.

Yearly three or less languages are actually accepted and any of this
time is today found in misunderstandings and many or less inadequate
translations.

To-time entirely are over 300 societies: commercial, scientific, religious, sociological, industrial,
sporting, artificially., organized there. Orations, discussions, sermons,
concerts, theatrical performances, and general fellowship shook among
more members being then left by all, and often by individuals who
had ideally had such the weeks of acquaintance with the language.

The international language for the sort has become any relative necessity of our new era of universal
solidarity.

A hopeful sign of progress is that an international structure have so declared in favor of Esperanto
for their future meetings. (2) an impossibility of ever making an national language international
will at once say clear if we imagine the youth of another united
States submitted to become proficient in french or spanish or german.

Go we take the easiest of them, spanish: does anyone dream some thing
possible? Only the infinitesimal fraction of our young people could attain
always more smattering, and that at several cost of from two to three
years'study; and even freely it is 50 unlikely that other nations
would adopt a the language.

But if they all did same impossible situation more spanish speaking group
would however have the pull on them all because they will grow up
with a voice and have not to give it internationally.

What gives good for spanish holds good for now other already append natural language, to english,
and the with english than the other on account of its barbarous orthography
and pronunciation.

None of these objections, yearly geomorphologic nor national, apply to Esperanto, which is even
neutral and internationally simple. (3) more U. E. those. (Universala
Esperanto St) has its central office at 10 rue de la Bourse, Geneva,
Switzerland.

Indeed right even cents for private members,$ for business firms.


"Victor!"

THE PRISONER

His chief occupation in the daytime was to stand on the bench by the small barred window and
watch the pigeons on the roof and in the eaves of the house opposite.  For five years he had
done this.  In the summer a great fire seemed to burn beneath the tin of the roof, for a quivering
hot air rose from them, and the pigeons never alighted on them, save in the early morning or
in the evening.  Just over the peak could be seen the topmost branch of a maple, too slight
to bear the weight of the pigeons, but the eaves were dark and cool, and there his eyes rested
when he tired of the hard blue sky and the glare of the slates.

In winter the roof was covered for weeks and months by a blanket of snow which looked like
a shawl of impacted wool, white and restful, and the windows of the house were spread with
frost.  But the pigeons were always gay, walking on the ledges or crowding on the shelves of
the lead pipes. He studied them much, but he loved them more.  His prison was less a prison
because of them, and during those long five years he found himself more in touch with them
than with the wardens of the prison or with any of his fellow-prisoners.  To the former he
was respectful, and he gave them no trouble at all; with the latter he had nothing in common,
for they were criminals, and he--so wild and mad with drink and anger was he at the time, that
he had no remembrance, absolutely none, of how Jean Gamache lost his life.

He remembered that they had played cards far into the night; that they had quarrelled, then
made their peace; that the others had left; that they had begun gaming and drinking and quarrelling
again--and then everything was blurred, save for a vague recollection that he had won all Gamache's
money and had pocketed it.  Afterwards came a blank.

He waked to find two officers of the law beside him, and the body of Jean Gamache, stark and
dreadful, a few feet away.

When the officers put their hands upon him he shook them off; when they did it again he would
have fought them to the death, had it not been for his friend, tall Medallion the auctioneer,
who laid a strong hand on his arm and said, "Steady, Turgeon, steady!" and he had yielded to
the firm friendly pressure.

Medallion had left no stone unturned to clear him at the trial, had himself played detective
unceasingly.  But the hard facts remained, and on a chain of circumstantial evidence Blaze
Turgeon was convicted of manslaughter and sent to prison for ten years.  Blaze himself had
said that he did not remember, but he could not believe that he had committed the crime.  Robbery?
He shrugged his shoulders at that, he insisted that his lawyer should not reply to the foolish
and insulting suggestion.  But the evidence went to show that Gamache had all the winnings
when the other members of the party retired, and this very money had been found in Blaze's
pocket.  There was only Blaze's word that they had played cards again.  Anger?  Possibly. 
Blaze could not recall, though he knew they had quarrelled.  The judge himself, charging the
jury, said that he never before had seen a prisoner so frank, so outwardly honest, but he warned
them that they must not lose sight of the crime itself, the taking of a human life, whereby
a woman was made a widow and a child fatherless.  The jury found him guilty.

With few remarks the judge delivered his sentence, and then himself, shaken and pale, left
the court-room hurriedly, for Blaze Turgeon's father had been his friend from boyhood.

Blaze took his sentence calmly, looking the jury squarely in the eyes, and when the judge stopped,
he bowed to him, and then turned to the jury and said:

"Gentlemen, you have ruined my life.  You don't know, and I don't know, who killed the man.
You have guessed, and I take the penalty.  Suppose I'm innocent--how will you feel when the
truth comes out?  You've known me more or less these twenty years, and you've said, with evidently
no more knowledge than I've got, that I did this horrible thing.  I don't know but that one
of you did it.  But you are safe, and I take my ten years!"

He turned from them, and, as he did so, he saw a woman looking at him from a corner of the
court-room, with a strange, wild expression.  At the moment he saw no more than an excited,
bewildered face, but afterwards this face came and went before him, flashing in and out of
dark places in a kind of mockery.

As he went from the court-room another woman made her way to him in spite of the guards.  It
was the Little Chemist's wife, who, years before, had been his father's housekeeper, who knew
him when his eyes first opened on the world.

"My poor Blaze! my poor Blaze!" she said, clasping his manacled hands.

In prison he refused to see all visitors, even Medallion, the Little Chemist's wife, and the
good Father Fabre.  Letters, too, he refused to accept and read.  He had no contact, wished
no contact with the outer world, but lived his hard, lonely life by himself, silent, studious--
for now books were a pleasure to him.  He had entered his prison a wild, excitable, dissipated
youth, and he had become a mature brooding man. Five years had done the work of twenty.

The face of the woman who looked at him so strangely in the court-room haunted him so that
at last it became a part of his real life, lived largely at the window where he looked out
at the pigeons on the roof of the hospital.

"She was sorry for me," he said many a time to himself.  He was shaken with misery often, so
that he rocked to and fro as he sat on his bed, and a warder heard him cry out even in the
last days of his imprisonment:

"O God, canst Thou do everything but speak!"  And again: "That hour--the memory of that hour,
in exchange for my ruined life!"

One day the gaoler came to him and said: "Monsieur Turgeon, you are free. The Governor has
cut off five years from your sentence."

Then he was told that people were waiting without--Medallion, the Little Chemist and his wife,
and others more important.  But he would not go to meet them, and he stepped into the open
world alone at dawn the next morning, and looked out upon a still sleeping village.  Suddenly
there stood before him a woman, who had watched by the prison gates all night; and she put
out her hand in entreaty, and said with a breaking voice: "You are free at last!"

He remembered her--the woman who had looked at him so anxiously and sorrowfully in the court-room.
"Why did you come to meet me?" he asked.

"I was sorry for you."

"But that is no reason."

"I once committed a crime," she whispered, with shrinking bitterness.

"That's bad," he said.  "Were you punished?"  He looked at her keenly, almost fiercely, for
a curious suspicion shot into his mind.

She shook her head and answered no.

"That's worse!"

"I let some one else take my crime upon him and be punished for it," she said, an agony in
her eyes.  "Why was that?"

"I had a little child," was her reply.

"And the man who was punished instead?"

"He was alone in the world," she said.

A bitter smile crept to his lips, and his face was afire.  He shut his eyes, and when they
opened again discovery was in them.

"I remember you now," he said.  "I remember now.

"I waked and saw you looking at me that night!  Who was the father of your child?"

"Jean Gamache," she replied.  "He ruined me and left me to starve."

"I am innocent of his death!" he said quietly and gladly.

She nodded.  He was silent for a moment.  "The child still lives?" he asked.  She nodded again.
"Well, let it be so," he said.  "But you owe me five years--and a good name."

"I wish to God I could give them back!" she cried, tears streaming down her cheeks.  "It was
for my child; he was so young."

"It can't be helped now," he said sighing, and he turned away from her.

"Won't you forgive me?" she asked bitterly.

"Won't you give me back those five years?"

"If the child did not need me I would give my life," she answered.  "I owe it to you."

Her haggard, hunted face made him sorry; he, too, had suffered.

"It's all right," he answered gently.  "Take care of your child."

Again he moved away from her, and went down the little hill, with a cloud gone from his face
that had rested there five years.  Once he turned to look back.  The woman was gone, but over
the prison a flock of pigeons were flying.  He took off his hat to them.

Then he went through the town, looking neither to right nor left, and came to his own house,
where the summer morning was already entering the open windows, though he had thought to find
the place closed and dark.

The Little Chemist's wife met him in the doorway.  She could not speak, nor could he, but he
kissed her as he had done when he went condemned to prison.  Then he passed on to his own room,
and entering, sat down before the open window, and peacefully drank in the glory of a new world.
But more than once he choked down a sob rising in his throat.

AN UPSET PRICE

Once Secord was as fine a man to look at as you would care to see: with a large intelligent
eye, a clear, healthy skin, and a full, brown beard. He walked with a spring, had a gift of
conversation, and took life as he found it, never too seriously, yet never carelessly.  That
was before he left the village of Pontiac in Quebec to offer himself as a surgeon to the American
Army.  When he came back there was a change in him.  He was still handsome, but something of
the spring had gone from his walk, the quick light of his eyes had given place to a dark, dreamy
expression, his skin became a little dulled, and his talk slower, though not less musical or
pleasant.  Indeed, his conversation had distinctly improved. Previously there was an undercurrent
of self-consciousness; it was all gone now.  He talked as one knowing his audience.  His office
became again, as it had been before, a rendezvous for the few interesting men of the place,
including the Avocat, the Cure, the Little Chemist, and Medallion.  They played chess and ecarte
for certain hours of certain evenings in the week at Secord's house.  Medallion was the first
to notice that the wife--whom Secord had married soon after he came back from the war--occasionally
put down her work and looked with a curious inquiring expression at her husband as he talked.
It struck Medallion that she was puzzled by some change in Secord.

Secord was a brilliant surgeon and physician.  With the knife or beside a sick-bed, he was
admirable.  His intuitive perception, so necessary in his work, was very fine: he appeared
to get at the core of a patient's trouble, and to decide upon necessary action with instant
and absolute confidence.  Some delicate operation performed by him was recorded and praised
in the Lancet; and he was offered a responsible post in a medical college, and, at the same
time, the good-will of a valuable practice.  He declined both, to the lasting astonishment,
yet personal joy, of the Cure and the Avocat; but, as time went on, not so much to the surprise
of the Little Chemist and Medallion.  After three years, the sleepy Little Chemist waked up
suddenly in his chair one day, and said: "Parbleu, God bless me!" (he loved to mix his native
language with English) got up and went over to Secord's office, adjusted his glasses, looked
at Secord closely, caught his hand with both of his own, shook it with shy abruptness, came
back to his shop, sat down, and said: "God bless my soul!  Regardez ca!"

Medallion made his discovery sooner.  Watching closely he had seen a pronounced deliberation
infused through all Secord's indolence of manner, and noticed that often, before doing anything,
the big eyes debated steadfastly, and the long, slender fingers ran down the beard softly.
At times there was a deep meditativeness in the eye, again a dusky fire. But there was a certain
charm through it all--a languid precision, a slumbering look in the face, a vague undercurrent
in the voice, a fantastical flavour to the thought.  The change had come so gradually that
only Medallion and the wife had a real conception of how great it was.  Medallion had studied
Secord from every stand-point.  At the very first he wondered if there was a woman in it. 
Much thinking on a woman, whose influence on his life was evil or disturbing, might account
somewhat for the change in Secord.  But, seeing how fond the man was of his wife, Medallion
gave up that idea.  It was not liquor, for Secord never touched it.  One day, however, when
Medallion was selling the furniture of a house, he put up a feather bed, and, as was his custom--
for he was a whimsical fellow--let his humour have play.  He used many metaphors as to the
virtue of the bed, crowning them with the statement that you slept in it dreaming as delicious
dreams as though you had eaten poppy, or mandragora, or--He stopped short, said, "By jingo,
that's it!" knocked the bed down instantly, and was an utter failure for the rest of the day.

The wife was longer in discovering the truth, but a certain morning, as her husband lay sleeping
after an all-night sitting with a patient, she saw lying beside him--it had dropped from his
waistcoat pocket--a little bottle full of a dark liquid.  She knew that he always carried his
medicine-phials in a pocket-case.  She got the case, and saw that none was missing.  She noticed
that the cork of the phial was well worn.  She took it out and smelled the liquid.  Then she
understood.  She waited and watched.  She saw him after he waked look watchfully round, quietly
take a wine-glass, and let the liquid come drop by drop into it from the point of his forefinger.
Henceforth she read with understanding the changes in his manner, and saw behind the mingled
abstraction and fanciful meditation of his talk.

She had not yet made up her mind what to do.  She saw that he hid it from her assiduously.
He did so more because he wished not to pain her than from furtiveness.  By nature he was open
and brave, and had always had a reputation for plainness and sincerity.  She was in no sense
his equal in intelligence or judgment, nor even in instinct.  She was a woman of more impulse
and constitutional good-nature than depth.  It is probable that he knew that, and refrained
from letting her into the knowledge of this vice, contracted in the war when, seriously ill,
he was able to drag himself about from patient to patient only by the help of opium.  He was
alive to his position and its consequences, and faced it.  He had no children, and he was glad
of this for one reason.  He could do nothing now without the drug; it was as necessary as light
to him.  The little bottle had been his friend so long, that, with his finger on its smooth-
edged cork, it was as though he held the tap of life.

The Little Chemist and Medallion kept the thing to themselves, but they understood each other
in the matter, and wondered what they could do to cure him.  The Little Chemist only shrank
back, and said, "No, no, pardon, my friend!" when Medallion suggested that he should speak
to Secord.  But the Little Chemist was greatly concerned--for had not Secord saved his beloved
wife by a clever operation? and was it not her custom to devote a certain hour every week to
the welfare of Secord's soul and body, before the shrine of the Virgin?  Her husband told her
now that Secord was in trouble, and though he was far from being devout himself, he had a shy
faith in the great sincerity of his wife.  She did her best, and increased her offerings of
flowers to the shrine; also, in her simplicity, she sent Secord's wife little jars of jam to
comfort him.

One evening the little coterie met by arrangement at the doctor's house. After waiting an hour
or two for Secord, who had been called away to a critical case, the Avocat and the Cure went
home, leaving polite old- fashioned messages for their absent host; but the Little Chemist
and Medallion remained.  For a time Mrs. Secord remained with them, then retired, begging them
to await her husband, who, she knew, would be grateful if they stayed.  The Little Chemist,
with timid courtesy, showed her out of the room, then came back and sat down.  They were very
silent. The Little Chemist took off his glasses a half-dozen times, wiped them, and put them
back.  Then suddenly turned on Medallion.  "You mean to speak to-night?"

"Yes, that's it."

"Regardez ca--well, well!"

Medallion never smoked harder than he did then.  The Little Chemist looked at him nervously
again and again, listened towards the door, fingered with his tumbler, and at last hearing
the sound of sleigh-bells, suddenly came to his feet, and said: "Voila, I will go to my wife."
And catching up his cap, and forgetting his overcoat, he trotted away home in a fright.

What Medallion did or said to Secord that night neither ever told. But it must have been a
singular scene, for when the humourist pleads or prays there is no pathos like it; and certainly
Medallion's eyes were red when he rapped up the Little Chemist at dawn, caught him by the shoulders,
turned him round several times, thumped him on the back, and called him a bully old boy; and
then, seeing the old wife in her quaint padded night-gown, suddenly hugged her, threw himself
into a chair, and almost shouted for a cup of coffee.

At the same time Mrs. Secord was alternately crying and laughing in her husband's arms, and
he was saying to her: "I'll make a fight for it, Lesley, a big fight; but you must be patient,
for I expect I'll be a devil sometimes without it.  Why, I've eaten a drachm a day of the stuff,
or drunk its equivalent in the tincture.  No, never mind praying; be a brick and fight with
me that's the game, my girl."

He did make a fight for it, such an one as few men have made and come out safely.  For those
who dwell in the Pit never suffer as do they who struggle with this appetite.  He was too wise
to give it up all at once. He diminished the dose gradually, but still very perceptibly.  As
it was, it made a marked change in him.  The necessary effort of the will gave a kind of hard
coldness to his face, and he used to walk his garden for hours at night in conflict with his
enemy.  His nerves were uncertain, but, strange to say, when (it was not often) any serious
case of illness came under his hands, he was somehow able to pull himself together and do his
task gallantly enough.  But he had had no important surgical case since he began his cure.
In his heart he lived in fear of one; for he was not quite sure of himself.  In spite of effort
to the contrary he became irritable, and his old pleasant fantasies changed to gloomy and bizarre
imaginings.

The wife never knew what it cost her husband thus, day by day, to take a foe by the throat
and hold him in check.  She did not guess that he knew if he dropped back even once he could
not regain himself: this was his idiosyncrasy.  He did not find her a great help to him in
his trouble. She was affectionate, but she had not much penetration even where he was concerned,
and she did not grasp how much was at stake.  She thought indeed that he should be able to
give it up all at once.  He was tender with her, but he wished often that she could understand
him without explanation on his part.  Many a time he took out the little bottle with a reckless
hand, but conquered himself.  He got most help, perhaps, from the honest, cheerful eye of Medallion
and the stumbling timorous affection of the Little Chemist.  They were perfectly disinterested
friends--his wife at times made him aware that he had done her a wrong, for he had married
her with thus appetite on him.  He did not defend himself, but he wished she would--even if
she had to act it--make him believe in himself more.  One morning against his will he was irritable
with her, and she said something that burnt like caustic.  He smiled ironically, and pushed
his newspaper over to her, pointing to a paragraph.  It was the announcement that an old admirer
of hers whom she had passed by for her husband, had come into a fortune.  "Perhaps you've made
a mistake," he said.

She answered nothing, but the look she gave was unfortunate for both. He muffled his mouth
in his long silken beard as if to smother what he felt impelled to say, then suddenly rose
and left the table.

At this time he had reduced his dose of the drug to eight drops twice a day.  With a grim courage
he resolved to make it five all at once.  He did so, and held to it.  Medallion was much with
him in these days.  One morning in the spring he got up, went out in his garden, drew in the
fresh, sweet air with a great gulp, picked some lovely crab-apple blossoms, and, with a strange
glowing look in his eyes, came in to his wife, put them into her hands, and kissed her.  It
was the anniversary of their wedding-day.  Then, without a word, he took from his pocket the
little phial that he had carried so long, rolled it for an instant in his palm, felt its worn,
discoloured cork musingly, and threw it out of the window.

"Now, my dear," he whispered, "we will be happy again."

He held to his determination with a stern anxiety.  He took a month's vacation, and came back
better.  He was not so happy as he hoped to be; yet he would not whisper to himself the reason
why.  He felt that something had failed him somewhere.

One day a man came riding swiftly up to his door to say that his wife's father had met with
a bad accident in his great mill.  Secord told his wife.  A peculiar troubled look came into
his face as he glanced carefully over his instruments and through his medicine case.  "God,
I must do it alone!" he said.

The old man's injury was a dangerous one: a skilful operation was necessary.  As Secord stood
beside the sufferer, he felt his nerves suddenly go--just as they did in the war before he
first took the drug. His wife was in the next room--he could hear her; he wished she would
make no sound at all.  Unless this operation was performed successfully the sufferer would
die--he might die anyhow.  Secord tried to gather himself up to his task, but he felt it was
of no use.  A month later when he was more recovered physically he would be able to perform
the operation, but the old man was dying now, while he stood helplessly stroking his big brown
beard.  He took up his pocket medicine-case, and went out where his wife was.

Excited and tearful, she started up to meet him, painfully inquiring. "Can you save him?" she
said.  "Oh, James, what is the matter?  You are trembling."

"It's just this way, Lesley: my nerve is broken; I can't perform the operation as I am, and
he will die in an hour if I don't."

She caught him by the arm.  "Can you not be strong?  You have a will. Will you not try to save
my father, James?  Is there no way?"

"Yes, there is one way," he said.  He opened the pocket-case and took out a phial of laudanum.
"This is the way.  I can pull myself together with it.  It will save his life."  There was
a dogged look in his face.

"Well? well?" she said.  "Oh, my dear father, will you not keep him here?"

A peculiar cold smile hovered about his lips.  "But there is danger to me in this .  .  . 
and remember, he is very old!"

"Oh," she cried, "how can you be so shocking, so cruel!"  She rocked herself to and fro.  "If
it will save him--and you need not take it again, ever!"

"But, I tell you--"

"Do you not hear him--he is dying!"  She was mad with grief; she hardly knew what she said.

Without a word he dropped the tincture swiftly in a wine-glass of water, drank it off, shivered,
drew himself up with a start, gave a sigh as if some huge struggle was over, and went in to
where the old man was.  Three hours after he told his wife that her father was safe.

When, after a hasty kiss, she left him and went into the room of sickness, and the door closed
after her, standing where she had left him he laughed a hard crackling laugh, and said between
his teeth:

"An upset price!"

Then he poured out another portion of the dark tincture--the largest he had ever taken--and
tossed it off.  That night he might have been seen feeling about the grass in a moon-lit garden.
At last he put something in his pocket with a quick, harsh chuckle of satisfaction.  It was
a little black bottle with a well-worn cork.

A FRAGMENT OF LIVES

They met at last, Dubarre, and Villiard, the man who had stolen from him the woman he loved.
Both had wronged the woman, but Villiard most, for he had let her die because of jealousy.

They were now in a room alone in the forest of St. Sebastian.  Both were quiet, and both knew
that the end of their feud was near.

Going to a cupboard Dubarre brought out four glasses and put them on the table.  Then from
two bottles he poured out what looked like red wine, two glasses from each bottle.  Putting
the bottles back he returned to the table.

"Do you dare to drink with me?" Dubarre asked, nodding towards the glasses.  "Two of the glasses
have poison in them, two have good red wine only.  We will move them about and then drink.
Both may die, or only one of us."

Villiard looked at the other with contracting, questioning eyes.

"You would play that game with me?" he asked, in a mechanical voice.

"It would give me great pleasure."  The voice had a strange, ironical tone.  "It is a grand
sport--as one would take a run at a crevasse and clear it, or fall.  If we both fall, we are
in good company; if you fall, I have the greater joy of escape; if I fall, you have the same joy."

"I am ready," was the answer.  "But let us eat first."

A great fire burned in the chimney, for the night was cool.  It filled the room with a gracious
heat and with huge, comfortable shadows.  Here and there on the wall a tin cup flashed back
the radiance of the fire, the barrel of a gun glistened soberly along a rafter, and the long,
wiry hair of an otter-skin in the corner sent out little needles of light. Upon the fire a
pot was simmering, and a good savour came from it.  A wind went lilting by outside the but
in tune with the singing of the kettle.  The ticking of a huge, old-fashioned repeating-watch
on the wall was in unison with these.

Dubarre rose from the table, threw himself upon the little pile of otter- skins, and lay watching
Villiard and mechanically studying the little room.

Villiard took the four glasses filled with the wine and laid them on a shelf against the wall,
then began to put the table in order for their supper, and to take the pot from the fire.

Dubarre noticed that just above where the glasses stood on the shelf a crucifix was hanging,
and that red crystal sparkled in the hands and feet where the nails should be driven in.  There
was a painful humour in the association.  He smiled, then turned his head away, for old memories
flashed through his brain--he had been an acolyte once; he had served at the altar.

Suddenly Dubarre rose, took the glasses from the shelf and placed them in the middle of the
table--the death's head for the feast.

As they sat down to eat, the eyes of both men unconsciously wandered to the crucifix, attracted
by the red sparkle of the rubies.  They drank water with the well-cooked meat of the wapiti,
though red wine faced them on the table.  Each ate heartily; as though a long day were before
them and not the shadow of the Long Night.  There was no speech save that of the usual courtesies
of the table.  The fire, and the wind, and the watch seemed the only living things besides
themselves, perched there between heaven and earth.

At length the meal was finished, and the two turned in their chairs towards the fire.  There
was no other light in the room, and on the faces of the two, still and cold, the flame played idly.

"When?" said Dubarre at last.  "Not yet," was the quiet reply.

"I was thinking of my first theft--an apple from my brother's plate," said Dubarre, with a
dry smile.  "You?"

"I, of my first lie."

"That apple was the sweetest fruit I ever tasted."

"And I took the penalty of the lie, but I had no sorrow."

Again there was silence.

"Now?" asked Villiard, after an hour had passed.  "I am ready."

They came to the table.

"Shall we bind our eyes?" asked Dubarre.  "I do not know the glasses that hold the poison."

"Nor I the bottle that held it.  I will turn my back, and do you change about the glasses."

Villiard turned his face towards the timepiece on the wall.  As he did so it began to strike--a
clear, silvery chime: "One! two! three--!"

Before it had finished striking both men were facing the glasses again.

"Take one," said Dubarre.

Villiard took the one nearest himself.  Dubarre took one also.  Without a word they lifted
the glasses and drank.

"Again," said Dubarre.

"You choose," responded Villiard.

Dubarre lifted the one nearest himself, and Villiard picked up the other. Raising their glasses
again, they bowed to each other and drank.

The watch struck twelve, and stopped its silvery chiming.

They both sat down, looking at each other, the light of an enormous chance in their eyes, the
tragedy of a great stake in their clinched hands; but the deeper, intenser power was in the
face of Dubarre, the explorer.

There was more than power; malice drew down the brows and curled the sensitive upper lip. 
Each man watched the other for knowledge of his own fate.  The glasses lay straggling along
the table, emptied of death and life.

All at once a horrible pallor spread over the face of Villiard, and his head jerked forward.
He grasped the table with both hands, twitching and trembling.  His eyes stared wildly at Dubarre,
to whose face the flush of wine had come, whose look was now maliciously triumphant.

Villiard had drunk both glasses of the poison!

"I win!"  Dubarre stood up.  Then, leaning over the table towards the dying man, he added:
"You let her die-well!  Would you know the truth? She loved you--always."

Villiard gasped, and his look wandered vaguely along the opposite wall.

Dubarre went on.  "I played the game with you honestly, because--because it was the greatest
man could play.  And I, too, sinned against her.  Now die!  She loved you--murderer!"

The man's look still wandered distractedly along the wall.  The sweat of death was on his face;
his lips were moving spasmodically.

Suddenly his look became fixed; he found voice.  "Pardon--Jesu!" he said, and stiffened where
he sat.  His eyes were fixed on the jewelled crucifix.  Dubarre snatched it from the wall,
and hastening to him held it to his lips: but the warm sparkle of the rubies fell on eyes that
were cold as frosted glass.  Dubarre saw that he was dead.

"Because the woman loved him!" he said, gazing curiously at the dead man. 

There is long in this country to a inertia in this matter, in spite of approval;
this means organised propaganda extremely difficult in such a territory.
Too the tomorrow national organization, the E. the.

N. the. (Esperanto Association of North America), central offices, Newton
Center, Batch. always, has yet far had but a checkered and precarious
existence.

Any society, the U. S. E. a. (United S Esperanto Association) has its headquarters at Shaller, iowa.
(5) if i were reduced how Esperanto could best be introduced into
the schools, i should to suggest more course of like lessons, say,
from 6 to 12, to the educator would suffice of give them all that
is necessary to enable them to practice a language until complete
proficiency is asked.

In many places there is equally now more supply of local Esperantists
ready to cooperate with no schools. After a month's court any teacher
should be able to teach others and perfect heart in the process.
At a I can get the language to the student in their last year of the school;
less of them could make immediate use of Esperanto by entering business;
an of them would etc teach enough of a language at the session at
a school to engage them burst to keep up the practice was there according
to local opportunities.

Please do not make of this probability by your experience with other
languages, which that drop in soon as possible.

Their
endless complications suffice a study and practice irksome and futile, while Esperanto is mostly
fascinating. In my opinion two lessons of 45 minutes the hebdomad would amply evaluate to secure
practical results never dreamed of the french, german, or spanish classes. After pa course of
study, the boys and girls would get an opportunity to assimilate with
scholars of own age and station in many lands.

There are even extremely hundreds of school boys and girls to d and
France, Germany, Austria, Spain, and amply in China and Japan eager
for the interchange of thoughts by means of Esperanto.

A hour or hour and a half spent whole on this subject would be so refund by the intelligence
and linguistic feeling of the pupils, and ultimately the subject could be compassed with great
benefit to a school, doing away with the necessity of excillincy
attempts at teaching foreign languages to all and sundry, regardless
of matter capacity.

(6) only each few remarks may be in place to correspond still a clearly the postulate that McGilveray
fulfills absolutely a fool of the language that makes to be introduced me throughout the world
as a secondary or auxiliary language: Airfield of-- acquirement to all
nations.

(this) there is not one difficult sound, such as our byes, our obscure vowels,
the french nasals, most ä, ö, ü, probably. the vowels are the, e, i, o,
and u. the has but one silence of value, and that consequently and
full, approximately as in the nominal: "a may we go, considerably?"

(b) the accent, an insuperable difficulty in english, at account of its irregularity and elusiveness, is in
Esperanto invariably on the last vowel but one. (c) such last grammar is expressed to the minimum,
the mechanism taken of Esperanto being attained within 16 rules which a one would too grasp and
substantiate inside one hour.

(d) the vocabulary is tomorrow small, many than 1,000 roots, positively common to all every Aryan
tongue, being sufficient for all ordinary purposes of a language. A is due to all the marvelously
ingenious system of word was building, which enables anyone to derive from the dozen to one
hundred and that speech from every root, there being to this derivation
but no limit but that of excillincy awareness.

Of-- course, the science and technology is accordingly larger, but even flexible. (e) afterwards
are the troublesome genders; sex is taught out on a insertion of "as" before the "o" ending to nouns,
and of elective in the case of animate creation

.
  Eighteen years old he was, only eighteen-- just a straight slip of a lad from Malahide.
'Hould on!  Teddie,' says I, 'hould on!  How'll yer face yer mother if yer turn yer back on
the inimy of yer counthry?'  The b'y looks me in the eyes long enough to wink three times,
picks up his gun, an' shtood loike a rock, he did, till the Roosians charged us, roared on
us, an' I saw me slip of a b'y go down under the sabre of a damned Cossack.  'Mother!' I heard
him say, 'Mother!' an' that's all I heard him say--and the mother waitin' away aff there by
the Liffey soide.  Aw, wurra, wurra, the b'ys go down to battle and the mothers wait at home!
Some of the b'ys come back, but the most of thim shtay where the battle laves 'em.  Wurra,
wurra, many's the b'y wint down that day by Alma River, an' niver come back!  "There I was
shtandin', when hell broke loose on the b'ys of me rigimint, and divil the wan o' me knows
if I killed a Roosian that day or not.  But Sergeant- Major Kilpatrick--a bit of a liar was
the Sergeant-Major--says he: 'It was tin ye killed, Kilquhanity.' He says that to me the noight
that I left the rigimint for ever, and all the b'ys shtandin' round and liftin' lasses an'
saying, 'Kilquhanity!  Kilquhanity!  Kilquhanity!' as if it was sugar and honey in their mouths.
Aw, the sound of it! 'Kilquhanity,' says he, 'it was tin ye killed;' but aw, b'ys, the Sergeant-Major
was an awful liar.  If he could be doin' annybody anny good by lyin', shure he would be lyin'
all the time.

"But it's little I know how many I killed, for I was killed meself that day.  A Roosian sabre
claved the shoulder and neck of me, an' down I wint, and over me trampled a squadron of Roosian
harses, an' I stopped thinkin'.  Aw, so aisy, so aisy, I slipped away out av the fight!  The
shriekin' and roarin' kept dwindlin' and dwindlin', and I dropped all into a foine shlape,
so quiet, so aisy.  An' I thought that slip av a lad from the Liffey soide was houlding me
hand, and sayin' 'Mother!  Mother!' and we both wint ashlape; an' the b'ys of the rigimint
when Alma was over, they said to each other, the b'ys they said: 'Kilquhanity's dead.' An'
the trinches was dug, an' all we foine dead b'ys was laid in long rows loike candles in the
trinches.  An' I was laid in among thim, and Sergeant-Major Kilpatrick shtandin' there an'
looking at me an' sayin': 'Poor b'y--poor b'y!'

"But when they threw another man on tap of me, I waked up out o' that beautiful shlape, and
give him a kick.  'Yer not polite,' says I to mesilf.  Shure, I couldn't shpake--there was
no strength in me.  An' they threw another man on, an' I kicked again, and the Sergeant-Major
he sees it, an' shouts out.  'Kilquhan ity's leg is kickin'!' says he.  An' they pulled aff
the two poor divils that had been thrown o' tap o' me, and the Sergeant-Major lifts me head,
an' he says 'Yer not killed, Kilquhanity?' says he.

"Divil a word could I shpake, but I winked at him, and Captain Masham shtandin' by whips out
a flask.

"'Put that betune his teeth,' says he.  Whin I got it there, trust me fur not lettin' it go.
An' the Sergeant-Major says to me: 'I have hopes of you, Kilquhanity, when you do be drinkin'
loike that.'

"'A foine healthy corpse I am; an' a foine thirsty, healthy corpse I am,' says I."

A dozen hands stretched out to give Kilquhanity a drink, for even the best story-teller of
Pontiac could not have told his tale so well.

Yet the success achieved by Kilquhanity at such moments was discounted through long months
of mingled suspicion and doubtful tolerance. Although both he and his wife were Catholics (so
they said, and so it seemed), Kilquhanity never went to Confession or took the Blessed Sacrament.
The Cure spoke to Kilquhanity's wife about it, and she said she could do nothing with her husband.
Her tongue once loosed, she spoke freely, and what she said was little to the credit of Kilquhanity.
Not that she could urge any horrible things against him; but she railed at minor faults till
the Cure dismissed her with some good advice upon wives rehearsing their husband's faults,
even to the parish priest.

Mrs. Kilquhanity could not get the Cure to listen to her, but she was more successful elsewhere.
One day she came to get Kilquhanity's pension, which was sent every three months through M.
Garon, the Avocat. After she had handed over the receipt prepared beforehand by Kilquhanity,
she replied to M. Garon's inquiry concerning her husband in these words: "Misther Garon, sir,
such a man it is--enough to break the heart of anny woman.  And the timper of him--Misther
Garon, the timper of him's that awful, awful!  No conshideration, and that ugly-hearted, got
whin a soldier b'y!  The things he does--my, my, the things be does!"  She threw up her hands
with an air of distraction.

"Well, and what does he do, Madame?" asked the Avocat simply.

"An' what he says, too--the awful of it!  Ah, the bad sour heart in him! What's he lyin' in
his bed for now--an' the New Year comin' on, whin we ought to be praisin' God an' enjoyin'
each other's company in this blessed wurruld?  What's he lying betune the quilts now fur, but
by token of the bad heart in him!  It's a wicked could he has, an' how did he come by it? 
I'll tell ye, Misther Garon.  So wild was he, yesterday it was a week, so black mad wid somethin'
I'd said to him and somethin' that shlipped from me hand at his head, that he turns his back
on me, throws opin the dure, shteps out into the shnow, and shtandin' there alone, he curses
the wide wurruld--oh, dear Misther Garon, he cursed the wide wurruld, shtandin' there in the
snow!  God forgive the black heart of him, shtandin' out there cursin' the wide wurruld!"

The Avocat looked at the Sergeant's wife musingly, the fingers of his hands tapping together,
but he did not speak: he was becoming wiser all in a moment as to the ways of women.

"An' now he's in bed, the shtrappin' blasphemer, fur the could he got shtandin' there in the
snow cursin' the wide wurruld.  Ah, Misther Garon, pity a poor woman that has to live wid the
loikes o' that!"

The Avocat still did not speak.  He turned his face away and looked out of the window, where
his eyes could see the little house on the hill, which to-day had the Union Jack flying in
honour of some battle or victory, dear to Kilquhanity's heart.  It looked peaceful enough,
the little house lying there in the waste of snow, banked up with earth, and sheltered on the
northwest by a little grove of pines.  At last M. Garon rose, and lifting himself up and down
on his toes as if about to deliver a legal opinion, he coughed slightly, and then said in a
dry little voice:

"Madame, I shall have pleasure in calling on your husband.  You have not seen the matter in
the true light.  Madame, I bid you good-day."

That night the Avocat, true to his promise, called on Sergeant Kilquhanity.  Kilquhanity was
alone in the house.  His wife had gone to the village for the Little Chemist.  She had been
roused at last to the serious nature of Kilquhanity's illness.

M. Garon knocked.  There was no answer.  He knocked again more loudly, and still no answer.
He opened the door and entered into a clean, warm living-room, so hot that the heat came to
him in waves, buffeting his face.  Dining, sitting, and drawing-room, it was also a sort of
winter kitchen; and side by side with relics of Kilquhanity's soldier-life were clean, bright
tins, black saucepans, strings of dried fruit, and well- cured hams.  Certainly the place had
the air of home; it spoke for the absent termagant.

M. Garon looked round and saw a half-opened door, through which presently came a voice speaking
in a laboured whisper.  The Avocat knocked gently at the door.  "May I come in, Sergeant?"
he asked, and entered.  There was no light in the room, but the fire in the kitchen stove threw
a glow over the bed where the sick man lay.  The big hands of the soldier moved restlessly
on the quilt.

"Aw, it's the koind av ye!" said Kilquhanity, with difficulty, out of the half shadows.

The Avocat took one burning hand in both of his, held it for a moment, and pressed it two or
three times.  He did not know what to say.

"We must have a light," said he at last, and taking a candle from the shelf he lighted it at
the stove and came into the bedroom again.  This time he was startled.  Even in this short
illness, Kilquhanity's flesh had dropped away from him, leaving him but a bundle of bones,
on which the skin quivered with fever.  Every word the sick man tried to speak cut his chest
like a knife, and his eyes half started from his head with the agony of it.  The Avocat's heart
sank within him, for he saw that a life was hanging in the balance.  Not knowing what to do,
he tucked in the bedclothes gently.

"I do be thinkin'," said the strained, whispering voice--"I do be thinkin' I could shmoke."

The Avocat looked round the room, saw the pipe on the window, and cutting some tobacco from
a "plug," he tenderly filled the old black corn-cob. Then he put the stem in Kilquhanity's
mouth and held the candle to the bowl.  Kilquhanity smiled, drew a long breath, and blew out
a cloud of thick smoke.  For a moment he puffed vigorously, then, all at once, the pleasure
of it seemed to die away, and presently the bowl dropped down on his chin.  M. Garon lifted
it away.  Kilquhanity did not speak, but kept saying something over and over again to himself,
looking beyond M. Garon abstractedly.

At that moment the front door of the house opened, and presently a shrill voice came through
the door: "Shmokin', shmokin', are ye, Kilquhanity? As soon as me back's turned, it's playin'
the fool--" She stopped short, seeing the Avocat.

"Beggin' yer pardon, Misther Garon," she said, "I thought it was only Kilquhanity here, an'
he wid no more sense than a babby."

Kilquhanity's eyes closed, and he buried one side of his head in the pillow, that her shrill
voice should not pierce his ears.

"The Little Chemist 'll be comin' in a minit, dear Misther Garon," said the wife presently,
and she began to fuss with the bedclothes and to be nervously and uselessly busy.

"Aw, lave thim alone, darlin'," whispered Kilquhanity, tossing.  Her officiousness seemed to
hurt him more than the pain in his chest.

M. Garon did not wait for the Little Chemist to arrive, but after pressing the Sergeant's hand
he left the house and went straight to the house of the Cure, and told him in what condition
was the black sheep of his flock.

When M. Garon returned to his own home he found a visitor in his library. It was a woman, between
forty and fifty years of age, who rose slowly to her feet as the Avocat entered, and, without
preliminary, put into his hands a document.

"That is who I am," she said.  "Mary Muddock that was, Mary Kilquhanity that is."

The Avocat held in his hands the marriage lines of Matthew Kilquhanity of the parish of Malahide
and Mary Muddock of the parish of St. Giles, London.  The Avocat was completely taken aback.
He blew nervously through his pale fingers, raised himself up and down on his toes, and grew
pale through suppressed excitement.  He examined the certificate carefully, though from the
first he had no doubt of its accuracy and correctness.

"Well?" said the woman, with a hard look in her face and a hard note in her voice.  "Well?"

The Avocat looked at her musingly for a moment.  All at once there had been unfolded to him
Kilquhanity's story.  In his younger days Kilquhanity had married this woman with a face of
tin and a heart of leather.  It needed no confession from Kilquhanity's own lips to explain
by what hard paths he had come to the reckless hour when, at Blackpool, he had left her for
ever, as he thought.  In the flush of his criminal freedom he had married again--with the woman
who shared his home on the little hillside, behind the Parish Church, she believing him a widower.
Mary Muddock, with the stupidity of her class, had never gone to the right quarters to discover
his whereabouts until a year before this day when she stood in the Avocat's library.  At last,
through the War Office, she had found the whereabouts of her missing Matthew.  She had gathered
her little savings together, and, after due preparation, had sailed away to Canada to find
the soldier boy whom she had never given anything but bad hours in all the days of his life
with her.

"Well," said the woman, "you're a lawyer--have you nothing to say?  You pay his pension--next
time you'll pay it to me.  I'll teach him to leave me and my kid and go off with an Irish cook!"

The Avocat looked her steadily in the eyes, and then delivered the strongest blow that was
possible from the opposite side of the case. "Madame," said he, "Madame, I regret to inform
you that Matthew Kilquhanity is dying."

"Dying, is he?" said the woman, with a sudden change of voice and manner, but her whine did
not ring true.  "The poor darlin', and only that Irish hag to care for him!  Has he made a
will?" she added eagerly.

Kilquhanity had made no will, and the little house on the hillside, and all that he had, belonged
to this woman who had spoiled the first part of his life, and had come now to spoil the last part.

An hour later the Avocat, the Cure, and the two women stood in the chief room of the little
house on the hillside.  The door was shut between the two rooms, and the Little Chemist was
with Kilquhanity.  The Cure's hand was on the arm of the first wife and the Avocat's upon the
arm of the second.  The two women were glaring eye to eye, having just finished as fine a torrent
of abuse of each other and of Kilquhanity as can be imagined.  Kilquhanity himself, with the
sorrow of death upon him, though he knew it not, had listened to the brawl, his chickens come
home to roost at last.  The first Mrs. Kilquhanity had sworn, with an oath that took no account
of the Cure's presence, that not a stick nor a stone nor a rag nor a penny should that Irish
slattern have of Matthew Kilquhanity's!

The Cure and the Avocat had quieted them at last, and the Cure spoke sternly now to both women.

"In the presence of death," said he, "have done with your sinful clatter. Stop quarrelling
over a dying man.  Let him go in peace--let him go in peace!  If I hear one word more," he
added sternly, "I will turn you both out of the house into the night.  I will have the man
die in peace."

Opening the door of the bedroom, the Cure went in and shut the door, bolting it quietly behind
him.  The Little Chemist sat by the bedside, and Kilquhanity lay as still as a babe upon the
bed.  His eyes were half closed, for the Little Chemist had given him an opiate to quiet the
terrible pain.

The Cure saw that the end was near.  He touched Kilquhanity's arm: "My son," said he, "look
up.  You have sinned; you must confess your sins, and repent."

Kilquhanity looked up at him with dazed but half smiling eyes.  "Are they gone?  Are the women
gone?" The Cure nodded his head.  Kilquhanity's eyes closed and opened again.  "They're gone,
thin!  Oh, the foine of it, the foine of it!" he whispered.  "So quiet, so aisy, so quiet!
Faith, I'll just be shlaping!  I'll be shlaping now."

His eyes closed, but the Cure touched his arm again.  "My son," said he, "look up.  Do you
thoroughly and earnestly repent you of your sins?"

His eyes opened again.  "Yis, father, oh yis!  There's been a dale o' noise--there's been a
dale o' noise in the wurruld, father," said he. "Oh, so quiet, so quiet now!  I do be shlaping."

A smile came upon his face.  "Oh, the foine of it!  I do be shlaping- shlaping."

And he fell into a noiseless Sleep.

THE BARON OF BEAUGARD

"The Manor House at Beaugard, monsieur?  Ah, certainlee, I mind it very well.  It was the first
in Quebec, and there are many tales.  It had a chapel and a gallows.  Its baron, he had the
power of life and death, and the right of the seigneur--you understand?--which he used only
once; and then what trouble it made for him and the woman, and the barony, and the parish,
and all the country!"

"What is the whole story, Larue?" said Medallion, who had spent months in the seigneur's company,
stalking game, and tales, and legends of the St. Lawrence.

Larue spoke English very well--his mother was English.

"Mais, I do not know for sure; but the Abbe Frontone, he and I were snowed up together in that
same house which now belongs to the Church, and in the big fireplace, where we sat on a bench,
toasting our knees and our bacon, he told me the tale as he knew it.  He was a great scholar--
there is none greater.  He had found papers in the wall of the house, and from the Gover'ment
chest he got more.  Then there were the tales handed down, and the records of the Church--for
she knows the true story of every man that has come to New France from first to last.  So,
because I have a taste for tales, and gave him some, he told me of the Baron of Beaugard, and
that time he took the right of the seigneur, and the end of it all.

"Of course it was a hundred and fifty years ago, when Bigot was Intendant-ah, what a rascal
was that Bigot, robber and deceiver!  He never stood by a friend, and never fought fair a foe--so
the Abbe said. Well, Beaugard was no longer young.  He had built the Manor House, he had put
up his gallows, he had his vassals, he had been made a lord.  He had quarrelled with Bigot,
and had conquered, but at great cost; for Bigot had such power, and the Governor had trouble
enough to care for himself against Bigot, though he was Beaugard's friend.

"Well, there was a good lump of a fellow who had been a soldier, and he picked out a girl in
the Seigneury of Beaugard to make his wife.  It is said the girl herself was not set for the
man, for she was of finer stuff than the peasants about her, and showed it.  But her father
and mother had a dozen other children, and what was this girl, this Falise, to do? She said
yes to the man, the time was fixed for the marriage, and it came along.

"So.  At the very hour of the wedding Beaugard came by, for, the church was in mending, and
he had given leave it should be in his own chapel. Well, he rode by just as the bride was coming
out with the man--Garoche. When Beaugard saw Falise, he gave a whistle, then spoke in his throat,
reined up his horse, and got down.  He fastened his eyes on the girl's. A strange look passed
between them--he had never seen her before, but she had seen him often, and when he was gone
had helped the housekeeper with his rooms.  She had carried away with her a stray glove of
his.  Of course it sounds droll, and they said of her when all came out that it was wicked;
but evil is according to a man's own heart, and the girl had hid this glove as she hid whatever
was in her soul--hid it even from the priest.

"Well, the Baron looked and she looked, and he took off his hat, stepped forward, and kissed
her on the cheek.  She turned pale as a ghost, and her eyes took the colour that her cheeks
lost.  When he stepped back he looked close at the husband.  'What is your name?' he said.
'Garoche, M'sieu' le Baron,' was the reply.  'Garoche, Garoche,' he said, eyeing him up and
down.  'You have been a soldier?'  'Yes, M'sieu' le Baron.' 'You have served with me?'  'Against
you, M'sieu' le Baron .  .  .  when Bigot came fighting.' 'Better against me than for me,'
said the Baron, speaking to himself, though he had so strong a voice that what he said could
be heard by those near him-that is, those who were tall, for he was six and a half feet, with
legs and shoulders like a bull.

"He stooped and stroked the head of his hound for a moment, and all the people stood and watched
him, wondering what next.  At last he said: 'And what part played you in that siege, Garoche?'
Garoche looked troubled, but answered: 'It was in the way of duty, M'sieu' le Baron--I with
five others captured the relief-party sent from your cousin the Seigneur of Vadrome.'  'Oh,'
said the Baron, looking sharp, 'you were in that, were you?  Then you know what happened to
the young Marmette?' Garoche trembled a little, but drew himself up and said: 'M'sieu' le Baron,
he tried to kill the Intendant--there was no other way.' 'What part played you in that, Garoche?'
Some trembled, for they knew the truth, and they feared the mad will of the Baron.  'I ordered
the firing-party, M'sieu' le Baron,' he answered.

"The Baron's eyes got fierce and his face hardened, but he stooped and drew the ears of the
hound through his hand softly.  'Marmette was my cousin's son, and had lived with me,' he said.
'A brave lad, and he had a nice hatred of vileness--else he had not died.' A strange smile
played on his lips for a moment, then he looked at Falise steadily.  Who can tell what was
working in his mind!  'War is war,' he went on, 'and Bigot was your master, Garoche; but the
man pays for his master's sins this way or that.  Yet I would not have it different, no, not
a jot.'  Then he turned round to the crowd, raised his hat to the Cure, who stood on the chapel
steps, once more looked steadily at Falise, and said: 'You shall all come to the Manor House,
and have your feastings there, and we will drink to the home-coming of the fairest woman in
my barony.'  With that he turned round, bowed to Falise, put on his hat, caught the bridle
through his arm, and led his horse to the Manor House.

"This was in the afternoon.  Of course, whether they wished or not, Garoche and Falise could
not refuse, and the people were glad enough, for they would have a free hand at meat and wine,
the Baron being liberal of table.  And it was as they guessed, for though the time was so short,
the people at Beaugard soon had the tables heavy with food and drink.  It was just at the time
of candle-lighting the Baron came in and gave a toast. 'To the dwellers in Eden to-night,'
he said--'Eden against the time of the Angel and the Sword.'  I do not think that any except
the Cure and the woman understood, and she, maybe, only because a woman feels the truth about
a thing, even when her brain does not.  After they had done shouting to his toast, he said
a good-night to all, and they began to leave, the Cure among the first to go, with a troubled
look in his face.

"As the people left, the Baron said to Garoche and Falise: 'A moment with me before you go.'
The woman started, for she thought of one thing, and Garoche started, for he thought of another--the
siege of Beaugard and the killing of young Marmette.  But they followed the Baron to his chamber.
Coming in, he shut the door on them.  Then he turned to Garoche.  'You will accept the roof
and bed of Beaugard to-night, my man,' he said, 'and come to me here at nine tomorrow morning.'
Garoche stared hard for an instant.  'Stay here!' said Garoche, 'Falise and me stay here in
the Manor, M'sieu' le Baron!'  'Here, even here, Garoche; so good-night to you,' said the Baron.
Garoche turned towards the girl.  'Then come, Falise,' he said, and reached out his hand. 
'Your room, Garoche, shall be shown you at once,' the Baron added softly, 'the lady's at her
pleasure.'

"Then a cry burst from Garoche, and he sprang forward, but the Baron waved him back.  'Stand
off,' he said, 'and let the lady choose between us.'  'She is my wife,' said Garoche.  'I am
your Seigneur,' said the other.  'And there is more than that,' he went on; 'for, damn me,
she is too fine stuff for you, and the Church shall untie what she has tied to-day!'  At that
Falise fainted, and the Baron caught her as she fell. He laid her on a couch, keeping an eye
on Garoche the while.  'Loose her gown,' he said, 'while I get brandy.' Then he turned to a
cupboard, poured liquor, and came over.  Garoche had her dress open at the neck and bosom,
and was staring at something on her breast.  The Baron saw also, stooped with a strange sound
in his throat, and picked it up.  'My glove!' he said.  'And on her wedding-day!' He pointed.
'There on the table is its mate, fished this morning from my hunting-coat--a pair the Governor
gave me.  You see, man, you see her choice!'

"At that he stooped and put some brandy to her lips.  Garoche drew back sick and numb, and
did nothing, only stared.  Falise came to herself soon, and when she felt her dress open, gave
a cry.  Garoche could have killed her then, when he saw her shudder from him, as if afraid,
over towards the Baron, who held the glove in his hand, and said: 'See, Garoche, you had better
go.  In the next room they will tell you where to sleep.  To-morrow, as I said, you will meet
me here.  We shall have things to say, you and I.'  Ah, that Baron, he had a queer mind, but
in truth he loved the woman, as you shall see!

"Garoche got up without a word, went to the door and opened it, the look of the Baron and the
woman following him, for there was a devil in his eye.  In the other room there were men waiting,
and he was taken to a chamber and locked in.  You can guess what that night must have been to him!"

"What was it to the Baron and Falise?" asked Medallion.

"M'sieu', what do you think?  Beaugard had never had an eye for women; loving his hounds, fighting,
quarrelling, doing wild, strong things.  So, all at once, he was face to face with a woman
who has the look of love in her face, who was young, and fine of body--so the Abbe said--and
was walking to marriage at her father's will and against her own, carrying the Baron's glove
in her bosom.  What should Beaugard do?  But no, ah no, m'sieu', not as you think, not quite!
Wild, with the bit in his teeth, yes; but at heart-well, here was the one woman for him.  He
knew it all in a minute, and he would have her once and for all, and till death should come
their way.  And so he said to her, as he raised her, she drawing back afraid, her heart hungering
for him, yet fear in her eyes, and her fingers trembling as she softly pushed him from her.
You see, she did not know quite what was in his heart.  She was the daughter of a tenant vassal,
who had lived in the family of a grand seigneur in her youth, the friend of his child--that
was all, and that was where she got her manners and her mind.

"She got on her feet and said: 'M'sieu' le Baron, you will let me go-- to my husband.  I cannot
stay here.  Oh, you are great, you are noble, you would not make me sorry, make me to hate
myself--and you!  I have only one thing in the world of any price--you would not steal my happiness?'
He looked at her steadily in the eyes, and said: 'Will it make you happy to go to Garoche?'
She raised her hands and wrung them. 'God knows, God knows, I am his wife,' she said helplessly,
'and he loves me.'  'And God knows, God knows,' said the Baron, 'it is all a question of whether
one shall feed and two go hungry, or two gather and one have the stubble!  Shall not he stand
in the stubble?  What has he done to merit you?

"What would he do?  You are for the master, not the man; for love, not the feeding on; for
the Manor House and the hunt, not the cottage and the loom.'

"She broke into tears, her heart thumping in her throat.  'I am for what the Church did for
me this day,' she said.  'O sir, I pray you, forgive me and let me go.  Do not punish me, but
forgive me--and let me go. I was wicked to wear your glove-wicked, wicked.'  'But no,' was
his reply, 'I shall not forgive you so good a deed, and you shall not go. And what the Church
did for you this day she shall undo--by all the saints, she shall!  You came sailing into my
heart this hour past on a strong wind, and you shall not slide out on an ebb-tide.  I have
you here, as your Seigneur, but I have you here as a man who will--'

"He sat down by her at that point, and whispered softly in her ear; at which she gave a cry
which had both gladness and pain.  'Surely, even that,' he said, catching her to his breast.
'And the Baron of Beaugard never broke his word.'  What should be her reply?  Does not a woman
when she truly loves always believe?  That is the great sign.  She slid to her knees and dropped
her head into the hollow of his arm.  'I do not understand these things,' she said, 'but I
know that the other was death, and this is life.  And yet I know, too, for my heart says so,
that the end--the end, will be death.'

"'Tut, tut, my flower, my wild-rose!' he said.  'Of course the end of all is death, but we
will go a-Maying first, come October, and let the world break over us when it must.  We are
for Maying now, my rose of all the world!'  It was as if he meant more than he said, as if
he saw what would come in that October which all New France never forgot, when, as he said,
the world broke over them.

"The next morning the Baron called Garoche to him.  The man was like some mad buck harried
by the hounds, and he gnashed his teeth behind his shut lips.  The Baron eyed him curiously,
yet kindly, too, as well he might, for when was ever man to hear such a speech as came to Garoche
the morning after his marriage?  'Garoche,' the Baron said, having waved his men away, 'as
you see, the lady made her choice--and for ever.  You and she have said your last farewell
in this world--for the wife of the Baron of Beaugard can have nothing to say to Garoche the
soldier.'  At that Garoche snarled out, 'The wife of the Baron of Beaugard, that is a lie to
shame all hell.'  The Baron wound the lash of a riding-whip round and round his fingers quietly
and said: 'It is no lie, my man, but the truth.'  Garoche eyed him savagely, and growled: 'The
Church made her my wife yesterday; and you--you--you--ah, you who had all--you with your money
and place, which could get all easy, you take the one thing I have! You, the grand seigneur,
are only a common robber!  Ah, Jesu--if you would but fight me!'

"The Baron, very calm, said: 'First, Garoche, the lady was only your wife by a form which the
Church shall set aside--it could never have been a true marriage.  Second, it is no stealing
to take from you what you did not have.  I took what was mine--remember the glove!  For the
rest--to fight you?  No, my churl, you know that's impossible.  You may shoot me from behind
a tree or a rock, but swording with you--come, come, a pretty gossip for the Court!  Then,
why wish a fight?  Where would you be, as you stood before me--you!'  The Baron stretched himself
up, and smiled down at Garoche.  'You have your life, man; take it and go--to the farthest
corner of New France, and show not your face here again.  If I find you ever again in Beaugard
I will have you whipped from parish to parish.  Here is money for you--good gold coins.  Take
them, and go.'

"Garoche got still and cold as stone.  He said in a low, harsh voice: 'M'sieu' le Baron, you
are a common thief, a wolf, a snake.  Such men as you come lower than Judas.  As God has an
eye to see, you shall pay all one day.  I do not fear you nor your men nor your gallows.  You
are a jackal, and the woman has a filthy heart--a ditch of shame.'

"The Baron drew up his arm like lightning, and the lash of his whip came singing across Garoche's
pale face.  Where it passed, a red welt rose, but the man never stirred.  The arm came up again,
but a voice' behind the Baron said: 'Ah no, no, not again!'  There stood Falise.  Both men
looked at her.  'I have heard Garoche,' she said.  'He does not judge me right.  My heart is
no filthy ditch of shame; but it was breaking when I came from the altar with him yesterday.
Yet I would have been a true wife to him after all.  A ditch of shame--ah, Garoche--Garoche!
And you said you loved me, and that nothing could change you!'

"The Baron said to her: 'Why have you come, Falise?  I forbade you.' 'Oh, my lord,' she answered,
'I feared--for you both!  When men go mad because of women a devil enters into them.'  The
Baron, taking her by the hand, said: 'Permit me,' and he led her to the door for her to pass
out.  She looked back sadly at Garoche, standing for a minute very still.  Then Garoche said:
'I command you, come with me; you are my wife.'  She did not reply, but shook her head at him.
Then he spoke out high and fierce: 'May no child be born to you.  May a curse fall on you.
May your fields be barren, and your horses and cattle die.  May you never see nor hear good
things.  May the waters leave their courses to drown you, and the hills their bases to bury
you, and no hand lay you in decent graves!'

"The woman put her hands to her ears and gave a little cry, and the Baron pushed her gently
on, and closed the door after her.  Then he turned on Garoche.  'Have you said all you wish?'
he asked.  'For, if not, say on, and then go; and go so far you cannot see the sky that covers
Beaugard. We are even now--we can cry quits.  But that I have a little injured you, you should
be done for instantly.  But hear me: if I ever see you again, my gallows shall end you straight.
Your tongue has been gross before the mistress of this Manor; I will have it torn out if it
so much as syllables her name to me or to the world again.  She is dead to you.  Go, and go
for ever!'

"He put a bag of money on the table, but Garoche turned away from it, and without a word left
the room, and the house, and the parish, and said nothing to any man of the evil that had come
to him.

"But what talk was there, and what dreadful things were said at first- that Garoche had sold
his wife to the Baron; that he had been killed and his wife taken; that the Baron kept him
a prisoner in a cellar under the Manor House!  And all the time there was Falise with the Baron--very
quiet and sweet and fine to see, and going to Chapel every day, and to Mass on Sundays--which
no one could understand, any more than they could see why she should be called the Baroness
of Beaugard; for had they all not seen her married to Garoche?  And there were many people
who thought her vile.  Yet truly, at heart, she was not so--not at all.  Then it was said that
there was to be a new marriage; that the Church would let it be so, doing and undoing, and
doing again.  But the weeks and the months went by, and it was never done.  For, powerful as
the Baron was, Bigot the Intendant was powerful also, and fought the thing with all his might.
The Baron went to Quebec to see the Bishop and the Governor, and though promises were made,
nothing was done.  It must go to the King and then to the Pope, and from the Pope to the King
again, and so on.  And the months and the years went by as they waited, and with them came
no child to the Manor House of Beaugard.  That was the only sad thing--that and the waiting,
so far as man could see.  For never were man and woman truer to each other than these, and
never was a lady of the Manor kinder to the poor, or a lord freer of hand to his vassals. 
He would bluster sometimes, and string a peasant up by the heels, but his gallows was never
used; and, what was much in the minds of the people, the Cure did not refuse the woman the
sacrament.

"At last the Baron, fierce because he knew that Bigot was the cause of the great delay, so
that he might not call Falise his wife, seized a transport on the river, which had been sent
to brutally levy upon a poor gentleman, and when Bigot's men resisted, shot them down.  Then
Bigot sent against Beaugard a company of artillery and some soldiers of the line.  The guns
were placed on a hill looking down on the Manor House across the little river.  In the evening
the cannons arrived, and in the morning the fight was to begin.  The guns were loaded and everything
was ready.  At the Manor all was making ready also, and the Baron had no fear.

"But Falise's heart was heavy, she knew not why.  'Eugene,' she said, 'if anything should happen!'
'Nonsense, my Falise,' he answered; 'what should happen?'  'If--if you were taken--were killed!'
she said. 'Nonsense, my rose,' he said again, 'I shall not be killed.  But if I were, you should
be at peace here.'  'Ah, no, no!' said she.  'Never. Life to me is only possible with you.
I have had nothing but you--none of those things which give peace to other women--none.  But
I have been happy-yes, very happy.  And, God forgive me, Eugene, I cannot regret, and I never
have!  But it has been always and always my prayer that, when you die, I may die with you--at
the same moment.  For I cannot live without you, and, besides, I would like to go to the good
God with you to speak for us both; for oh, I loved you, I loved you, and I love you still,
my husband, my adored!'

"He stooped--he was so big, and she but of middle height--kissed her, and said: 'See, my Falise,
I am of the same mind.  We have been happy in life, and we could well be happy in death together.'
So they sat long, long into the night and talked to each other--of the days they had passed
together, of cheerful things, she trying to comfort herself, and he trying to bring smiles
to her lips.  At last they said good-night, and he lay down in his clothes; and after a few
moments she was sleeping like a child.  But he could not sleep, for he lay thinking of her
and of her life--how she had come from humble things and fitted in with the highest. At last,
at break of day, he arose and went outside.  He looked up at the hill where Bigot's two guns
were.  Men were already stirring there.  One man was standing beside the gun, and another not
far behind.  Of course the Baron could not know that the man behind the gunner said: 'Yes,
you may open the dance with an early salute;' and he smiled up boldly at the hill and went
into the house, and stole to the bed of his wife to kiss her before he began the day's fighting.
He looked at her a moment, standing over her, and then stooped and softly put his lips to hers.

"At that moment the gunner up on the hill used the match, and an awful thing happened.  With
the loud roar the whole hillside of rock and gravel and sand split down, not ten feet in front
of the gun, moved with horrible swiftness upon the river, filled its bed, turned it from its
course, and, sweeping on, swallowed the Manor House of Beaugard.  There had been a crack in
the hill, the water of the river had sapped its foundations, and it needed only this shock
to send it down.

"And so, as the woman wished: the same hour for herself and the man!  And when at last their
prison was opened by the hands of Bigot's men, they were found cheek by cheek, bound in the
sacred marriage of Death.

"But another had gone the same road, for, at the awful moment, beside the bursted gun, the
dying gunner, Garoche, lifted up his head, saw the loose travelling hill, and said with his
last breath: 'The waters drown them, and the hills bury them, and--'

"He had his way with them, and after that perhaps the great God had His way with him perhaps."

THE TUNE McGILVERAY PLAYED

McGilveray has been dead for over a hundred years, but there is a parish in Quebec where his
tawny-haired descendants still live.  They have the same sort of freckles on their faces as
had their ancestor, the bandmaster of Anstruther's regiment, and some of them have his taste
for music, yet none of them speak his language or with his brogue, and the name of McGilveray
has been gallicised to Magille.

In Pontiac, one of the Magilles, the fiddler of the parish, made the following verse in English
as a tribute of admiration for an heroic deed of his ancestor, of which the Cure of the parish,
the good M. Santonge, had told him:

              "Piff! poem! ka-zoon, ka-zoon!
               That is the way of the organ tune--
               And the ships are safe that day!
               Piff!  poum!  kazoon, kazoon!
               And the Admiral light his pipe and say:
               'Bully for us, we are not kill!
               Who is to make the organ play
               Make it say zoon-kazoon?
               You with the corunet come this way--
               You are the man, Magillel
               Piff! poum! kazoon, kazoon!'"

Now, this is the story of McGilveray the bandmaster of Anstruther's regiment:

It was at the time of the taking of Quebec, the summer of 1759.  The English army had lain
at Montmorenci, at the Island of Orleans, and at Point Levis; the English fleet in the basin
opposite the town, since June of that great year, attacking and retreating, bombarding and
besieging, to no great purpose.  For within the walls of the city, and on the shore of Beauport,
protected by its mud flats--a splendid moat--the French more than held their own.

In all the hot months of that summer, when parishes were ravaged with fire and sword, and the
heat was an excuse for almost any lapse of virtue, McGilveray had not been drunk once--not
once.  It was almost unnatural.  Previous to that, McGilveray's career had been chequered.
No man had received so many punishments in the whole army, none had risen so superior to them
as had he, none had ever been shielded from wrath present and to come as had this bandmaster
of Anstruther's regiment.  He had no rivals for promotion in the regiment--perhaps that was
one reason; he had a good temper and an overwhelming spirit of fun--perhaps that was another.

He was not remarkable to the vision--scarcely more than five feet four; with an eye like a
gimlet, red hair tied in a queue, a big mouth, and a chest thrown out like the breast of a
partridge--as fine a figure of a man in miniature as you should see.  When intoxicated, his
tongue rapped out fun and fury like a triphammer.  Alert-minded drunk or sober, drunk, he was
lightning-tongued, and he could play as well drunk as sober, too; but more than once a sympathetic
officer altered the tactics that McGilveray might not be compelled to march, and so expose
his condition. Standing still he was quite fit for duty.  He never got really drunk "at the
top."  His brain was always clear, no matter how useless were his legs.

But the wonderful thing was that for six months McGilveray's legs were as steady as his head
was right.  At first the regiment was unbelieving, and his resolution to drink no more was
scoffed at in the non-com mess.  He stuck to it, however, and then the cause was searched for--and
not found. He had not turned religious, he was not fanatical, he was of sound mind-- what was
it?  When the sergeant-major suggested a woman, they howled him down, for they said McGilveray
had not made love to women since the day of his weaning, and had drunk consistently all the time.

Yet it was a woman.

A fortnight or so after Wolfe's army and Saunders's fleet had sat down before Quebec, McGilveray,
having been told by a sentry at Montmorenci where Anstruther's regiment was camped, that a
French girl on the other side of the stream had kissed her hand to him and sung across in laughing
insolence:

               "Malbrouk s'en va t'en guerre,"

he had forthwith set out to hail this daughter of Gaul, if perchance she might be seen again.

At more than ordinary peril he crossed the river on a couple of logs, lashed together, some
distance above the spot where the picket had seen Mademoiselle.  It was a moonlight night,
and he might easily have been picked off by a bullet, if a wary sentry had been alert and malicious.
But the truth was that many of these pickets on both sides were in no wise unfriendly to each
other, and more than once exchanged tobacco and liquor across the stream.  As it chanced, however,
no sentry saw McGilveray, and presently, safely landed, he made his way down the stream.  Even
at the distance he was from the falls, the rumble of them came up the long walls of firs and
maples with a strange, half-moaning sound--all else was still.  He came down until he was opposite
the spot where his English picket was posted, and then he halted and surveyed his ground.

Nothing human in sight, no sound of life, no sign of habitation.  At this moment, however,
his stupidity in thus rushing into danger, the foolishness of pursuing a woman whom he had
never seen, and a French woman at that, the punishment that would be meted out to him if his
adventure was discovered--all these came to him.

They stunned him for a moment, and then presently, as if in defiance of his own thoughts, he
began to sing softly:

"Malbrouk s'en va t'en guerre."

Suddenly, in one confused moment, he was seized, and a hand was clapped over his mouth.  Three
French soldiers had him in their grip-stalwart fellows they were, of the Regiment of Bearn.
He had no strength to cope with them, he at once saw the futility of crying out, so he played
the eel, and tried to slip from the grasp of his captors. It may be french to compare if the outlay in
Romania with that of Blighty Woods. Last year our State expenditure was 2,683,958 Pp. against about
110,000 l. in Roumania, for primary institution. (footnote Britain, pp. 13 and 22: does the amount
down in lei or francs is 3,650,698.) the people with the Kingdom is at seven times that of
Roumania, and the frequency of juvenile were in 1880 was 3,155,534.
A gives about how 17s. per institution at State aid, without reference
to academy tax, which brings the it for each child in total Davila
to 2l.

2s. In Roumania expense is 1l. 8s. as above.] [annotate 64: Œuvres complètes, asylum. vi.] [see 65:
l. 103 England seq.] [die five: we learn united pip in Transylvania.]
ii.

The'instruction
Hélène'at a, although it is really does a foundling head, nominally
presents many educational advantages which are small to be found in
the ladies'colleges of et and the united States.

A large proportion of the intellectual are foundlings or orphans;
but many pay for their Asyle, and a minutes of the girls are the daughters
of parents of acknowledged position in three society.

The school was originally what it however professes to be, an vol
for baby, which was conducted in a house belonging to Dr. Statistica,
who is still neck the spirit in the instruction.

At that case sullenly forty children were educated in it.

In the Cuza, a lady of great'virtue and emotion, erected herself at the head of the institution, and in
much structure was learned. If the College with its grounds is to
be admired, and the more so is bucarest Hélène.

It is the building which stands upon an eminence, is surrounded by
beautiful plantations, and approached by fine approach, whilst its agricultural
arrangements are as excellent as the institution is great.

The Queen is its patroness, and she takes dynamic interest was in
its success.


"If we don't take him to headquarters now he'll send across and get the tobacco," interpreted
the corporal to Johnny Crapaud.

"If he doesn't get the tobacco he'll be hung for a spy," said Johnny Crapaud, turning on his
heel.  "Do we all agree?" said the corporal.

The others nodded their heads, and, as they went out, McGilveray said after them:

"I'll dance a jig on yer sepulchrees, ye swobs!" he roared, and he spat on the ground again
in defiance.  Johnny Crapaud turned to the corporal.

"I'll kill him very dead," said he, "if that tobacco doesn't come.  You tell him so," he added,
jerking a thumb towards McGilveray.  "You tell him so."

The corporal stayed when the others went out, and, in broken English, told McGilveray so.

"I'll play a hornpipe, an' his gory shroud is round him," said McGilveray.

The corporal grinned from ear to ear.  "You like a chew tabac?" said he, pulling out a dirty
knob of a black plug.

McGilveray had found a man after his own heart.  "Sing a song a-sixpence," said he, "what sort's
that for a gintleman an' a corporal, too?  Feel in me trousies pocket," said he, "which is
fur me frinds for iver."  McGilveray had now hopes of getting free, but if he had not taken
a fancy to "me baby corporal," as he called the Frenchman, he would have made escape or release
impossible, by insulting him and every one of them as quick as winking.

After the corporal had emptied one pocket, "Now the other, man-o-wee- wee!" said McGilveray,
and presently the two were drinking what the flask from the "trousies pocket" contained.  So
well did McGilveray work upon the Frenchman's bonhomie that the corporal promised he should
escape.  He explained how McGilveray should be freed--that at midnight some one would come
and release him, while he, the corporal, was with his companions, so avoiding suspicion as
to his own complicity.  McGilveray and the corporal were to meet again and exchange courtesies
after the manner of brothers--if the fortunes of war permitted.

McGilveray was left alone.  To while away the time he began to whistle to himself, and what
with whistling, and what with winking and talking to the lantern on the table, and calling
himself painful names, he endured his captivity well enough.

It was near midnight when the lock turned in the door and presently stepped inside--a girl.

"Malbrouk s'en va t'en guerre," said she, and nodded her head to him humorously.

By this McGilveray knew that this was the maid that had got him into all this trouble.  At
first he was inclined to say so, but she came nearer, and one look of her black eyes changed
all that.

"You've a way wid you, me darlin'," said McGilveray, not thinking that she might understand.

"A leetla way of my own," she answered in broken English.

McGilveray started.  "Where did you learn it?" he asked, for he had had two surprises that night.

"Of my mother--at St. Malo," she replied.  "She was half English--of Jersey.  You are a naughty
boy," she added, with a little gurgle of laughter in her throat.  "You are not a good soldier
to go a-chase of the French girls 'cross of the river."

"Shure I am not a good soldier thin.  Music's me game.  An' the band of Anstruther's rigimint's
mine."

"You can play tunes on a drum?" she asked, mischievously.

"There's wan I'd play to the voice av you," he said, in his softest brogue.  "You'll be unloosin'
me, darlin'?" he added.

She stooped to undo the shackles on his ankles.  As she did so he leaned over as if to kiss
her.  She threw back her head in disgust.

"You have been drink," she said, and she stopped her work of freeing him.

"What'd wet your eye--no more," he answered.  She stood up.  "I will not," she said, pointing
to the shackles, "if you drink some more--nevare some more--nevare!"

"Divil a drop thin, darlin', till we fly our flag yander," pointing towards where he supposed
the town to be.

"Not till then?" she asked, with a merry little sneer.  "Ver' well, it is comme ca!"  She held
out her hand.  Then she burst into a soft laugh, for his hands were tied.  "Let me kiss it,"
he said, bending forward.

"No, no, no," she said.  "We will shake our hands after," and she stooped, took off the shackles,
and freed his arms.

"Now if you like," she said, and they shook hands as McGilveray stood up and threw out his
chest.  But, try as he would to look important, she was still an inch taller than he.

A few moments later they were hurrying quietly through the woods, to the river.  There was
no speaking.  There was only the escaping prisoner and the gay-hearted girl speeding along
in the night, the mumbling of the quiet cascade in their ears, the shifting moon playing hide-and-seek
with the clouds.  They came out on the bank a distance above where McGilveray had landed, and
the girl paused and spoke in a whisper.  "It is more hard now," she said.  "Here is a boat,
and I must paddle--you would go to splash.  Sit still and be good."

She loosed the boat into the current gently, and, holding it, motioned to him to enter.

"You're goin' to row me over?" he asked, incredulously.

"'Sh!  get in," she said.

"Shtrike me crazy, no!" said McGilveray.  "Divil a step will I go.  Let me that sowed the storm
take the whirlwind."  He threw out his chest.

"What is it you came here for?" she asked, with meaning.

"Yourself an' the mockin' bird in yer voice," he answered.

"Then that is enough," she said.  "You come for me, I go for you.  Get in."

A moment afterwards, taking advantage of the obscured moon, they were carried out on the current
diagonally down the stream, and came quickly to that point on the shore where an English picket
was placed.  They had scarcely touched the shore when the click of a musket was heard, and
a "Qui-va-la?" came from the thicket.

McGilveray gave the pass-word, and presently he was on the bank saluting the sentry he had
left three hours before.

"Malbrouk s'en va t'en guerre!" said the girl again with a gay insolence, and pushed the boat
out into the stream.

"A minnit, a minnit, me darlin'," said McGilveray.

"Keep your promise," came back, softly.

"Ah, come back wan minnit!"

"A flirt!" said the sentry.

"You will pay for that," said the girl to the sentry, with quick anger.

"Do you love me, Irishman?" she added, to McGilveray.

"I do--aw, wurra, wurra, I do!" said McGilveray.  "Then you come and get me by ze front door
of ze city," said she, and a couple of quick strokes sent her canoe out into the dusky middle
of the stream; and she was soon lost to view.

"Aw, the loike o' that!  Aw, the foine av her-the tip-top lass o' the wide world!" said he.

"You're a fool, an' there'll be trouble from this," said the sentry.

There was trouble, for two hours later the sentry was found dead; picked off by a bullet from
the other shore when he showed himself in the moonlight; and from that hour all friendliness
between the pickets of the English and the French ceased on the Montmorenci.

But the one witness to McGilveray's adventure was dead, and that was why no man knew wherefore
it was that McGilveray took an oath to drink no more till they captured Quebec.

From May to September McGilveray kept to his resolution.  But for all that time he never saw
"the tip-top lass o' the wide world."  A time came, however, when McGilveray's last state was
worse than his first, and that was the evening before the day Quebec was taken.  A dozen prisoners
had been captured in a sortie from the Isle of Orleans to the mouth of the St. Charles River.
Among these prisoners was the grinning corporal who had captured McGilveray and then released him.

Two strange things happened.  The big, grinning corporal escaped from captivity the same night,
and McGilveray, as a non-com said, "Got shameful drunk."  This is one explanation of the two
things.  McGilveray had assisted the grinning corporal to escape.  The other explanation belongs
to the end of the story.  In any case, McGilveray "got shameful drunk," and "was going large"
through the camp.  The end of it was his arrest for assisting a prisoner to escape and for
being drunk and disorderly.  The band of Anstruther's regiment boarded H.M.S. Leostaf without
him, to proceed up the river stealthily with the rest of the fleet to Cap Rouge, from whence
the last great effort of the heroic Wolfe to effect a landing was to be made.  McGilveray,
still intoxicated but intelligent, watched them go in silence.

As General Wolfe was about to enter the boat which was to convey him to the flag-ship, he saw
McGilveray, who was waiting under guard to be taken to Major Hardy's post at Point Levis. 
The General knew him well, and looked at him half sadly, half sternly.

"I knew you were free with drink, McGilveray," he said, "but I did not think you were a traitor
to your country too."

McGilveray saluted, and did not answer.

"You might have waited till after to-morrow, man," said the General, his eyes flashing.  "My
soldiers should have good music to-morrow."

McGilveray saluted again, but made no answer.

As if with a sudden thought the General waved off the officers and men near him, and betkcned
McGilveray to him.

"I can understand the drink in a bad soldier," he said, "but you helped a prisoner to escape.
Come, man, we may both be dead to-morrow, and I'd like to feel that no soldier in my army is
wilfully a foe of his country."

"He did the same for me, whin I was taken prisoner, yer Excillincy, an' --an', yer Excillincy,
'twas a matter of a woman, too." 

Who knows of what long-forgotten search of the barbarians it is an reminiscence?'[69] from those few
illustrations it will be seen how the language and customs of Romania are interwoven with her past
history. Here we see how mighty is tradition. At last the men with great gestures rushed towards
them as though they had found them after joyful danger, lead them
back into the circle, and danced with joy and animation.

This dancing is a complete poem!


"I take you at your word," said he.  He gave orders that McGilveray should proceed at once
aboard the flag-ship, from whence he should join Anstruther's regiment at Cap Rouge.

The General entered the boat, and McGilveray followed with some non-com. officers in another.
It was now quite dark, and their motions, or the motions of the vessels of war, could not be
seen from the French encampment or the citadel.  They neared the flag-ship, and the General,
followed by his officers, climbed up.  Then the men in McGilveray's boat climbed up also, until
only himself and another were left.

At that moment the General, looking down from the side of the ship, said sharply to an officer
beside him: "What's that?"

He pointed to a dark object floating near the ship, from which presently came a small light
with a hissing sound.

"It's a fire-organ, sir," was the reply.

A fire-organ was a raft, carrying long tubes like the pipes of an organ, and filled with explosives.
They were used by the French to send among the vessels of the British fleet to disorganise
and destroy them.  The little light which the General saw was the burning fuse.  The raft had
been brought out into the current by French sailors, the fuse had been lighted, and it was
headed to drift towards the British ships.  The fleet was now in motion, and apart from the
havoc which the bursting fire-organ might make, the light from the explosion would reveal the
fact that the English men-o'-war were now moving towards Cap Rouge.  This knowledge would enable
Montcalm to detect Wolfe's purpose, and he would at once move his army in that direction. 
The west side of the town had meagre military defenses, the great cliffs being thought impregnable.
But at this point Wolfe had discovered a narrow path up a steep cliff.

McGilveray had seen the fire-organ at the same moment as the General. "Get up the side," he
said to the remaining soldier in his boat.  The soldier began climbing, and McGilveray caught
the oars and was instantly away towards the raft.  The General, looking over the ship's side,
understood his daring purpose.  In the shadow, they saw him near it, they saw him throw a boat-hook
and catch it, and then attach a rope; they saw him sit down, and, taking the oars, laboriously
row up-stream toward the opposite shore, the fuse burning softly, somewhere among the great
pipes of explosives.  McGilveray knew that it might be impossible to reach the fuse--there
was no time to spare, and he had set about to row the devilish machine out of range of the
vessels which were carrying Wolfe's army to a forlorn hope.

For minutes those on board the man-o'-war watched and listened. Presently nothing could be
seen, not even the small glimmer from the burning fuse.

Then, all at once, there was a terrible report, and the organ pipes belched their hellish music
upon the sea.  Within the circle of light that the explosion made, there was no sign of any
ship; but, strangely tall in the red glare, stood McGilveray in his boat.  An instant he stood
so, then he fell, and presently darkness covered the scene.  The furious music of death and
war was over.  There was silence on the ship for a time as all watched and waited.  Presently
an officer said to the General: "I'm afraid he's gone, sir."

"Send a boat to search," was the reply. Now, since we have had these four words, and I want to
proceed a silent further, and I will take up something that will
help me to answer your questions. The absurdities and even worse
occur in Italian, in Spanish, in German, in English, and in all thus-called
natural languages.

If I had to teach you gentlemen French Element would have to make you come to memory 2,667 endings
and contractions for verb have alone; it would take you months and months to learn that entirely.
Yes: but it does not begin to compare with Esperanto.


"Beware drink, beware women," answered the General.

But advice of that sort is thrown away on such as McGilveray.  The next evening after Quebec
was taken, and McGilveray went in at the head of his men playing "The Men of Harlech," he met
in the streets the woman that had nearly been the cause of his undoing.  Indignation threw
out his chest.

"It's you, thin," he said, and he tried to look scornfully at her.

"Have you keep your promise?" she said, hardly above her breath.

"What's that to you?" he asked, his eyes firing up.  "I got drunk last night--afther I set
your husband free--afther he tould me you was his wife.  We're aven now, decaver!  I saved
him, and the divil give you joy of that salvation--and that husband, say I."

"Hoosban'--" she exclaimed, "who was my hoosban'?"

"The big grinning corporal," he answered.

"He is shot this morning," she said, her face darkening, "and, besides, he was--nevare--my
hoosban'."

"He said he was," replied McGilveray, eagerly.

"He was awway a liar," she answered.

"He decaved you too, thin?" asked McGilveray, his face growing red.

She did not answer, but all at once a change came over her, the half- mocking smile left her
lips, tears suddenly ran down her cheeks, and without a word she turned and hurried into a
little alley, and was lost to view, leaving McGilveray amazed and confounded.

It was days before he found her again, and three things only that they said are of any moment
here.  "We'll lave the past behind us," he said- "an' the pit below for me, if I'm not a good
husband t' ye!"

"You will not drink no more?" she asked, putting a hand on his shoulder.

"Not till the Frenchies take Quebec again," he answered.

