There were many tribes of Indians.  Each tribe had a great many men and women and children.
Some of the tribes lived in the north, some in the south, some near the sea.  In nearly every
part of the country there were Indian tribes.  Often some of the tribes went to war with other
tribes.  They fought with bows and arrows and tomahawks.  The tomahawk was a sort of hatchet.
The head of it was made of a stone with a sharp edge.

The Indians were very cruel in war.  When they killed a man, they cut the skin and hair off
the top of his head.  This was called scalping.

When about to go to war, they painted their faces to make themselves look very fierce.  They
also wore a band around their heads, and in these they stuck some long feathers.

There are Indians still in some parts of our country, and many of them live in wigwams.  They
sleep in these wigwams, but they cook their food outside.  They have no coal or stoves or fire-places.
Instead of coal they use wood and dried grass.  They make their fire on the ground. Their food
is very simple.  They have meat and fish and berries, and cakes made of corn.  The meat they
eat is the flesh of the deer and other wild animals.

The Indians are of a copper color.  They are sometimes called "Red Men."  They have high cheek
bones, black eyes, and straight black hair.

The Indian men spend their time hunting and fishing.  They do not have bows and arrows now.
They shoot with guns as white men do.

The Indian women do all the work. They cook the food, make the clothes, and plant the corn.
They also put up the wigwams and take them down. For the Indians do not live always in the
same place, but often move about.

An Indian woman is called a squaw, and an Indian baby is called a pa-poose'.  You would wonder
if you saw the Indian baby's cradle.  It is a bag made of skin fixed to a flat board.  It is
just large enough for baby to fit in.  The little papoose is wrapped up warm and put into the
bag.  The mother carries the baby on her back in this cradle. Often she hangs the cradle up
on a branch of a tree.  Then the little red baby swings while its mother is cooking or working
in the field.

The men, women, and children wear clothes made of skin.  They often wear blankets as shawls
are worn by white people.  Their shoes are made of deerskin and have no soles.  They are called
moccasins.

In many places the Indians now have schools, and the little Indian boys and girls go to school
every day.  Our government has sent teachers to teach them.  They learn to read and write and
count.

But the Indian boys and girls learn a great many things at home.  Their fathers tell them about
birds and beasts and trees and rivers.  And they teach the boys to hunt and fish, and train
them up to be brave in war.

The Indian boys and girls have a great many games.  The boys play with bows and arrows.  They
play "blindman's buff," and "hunt the slipper," and handball and football.  The girls take
part in the football.  One of their games is the "stick and ring" game.  The ring is made of
skin and is sometimes covered with beads.  Each boy has a stick, and he throws it at the ring
while it is rolling along the ground.  The game is to send the stick through the ring.  Every
boy tries to strike every other boy's stick to stop it from going through the ring.

The Indian boys sometimes play at fighting battles.  They form themselves into two armies,
and one army fights against the other. They fight with balls of wet clay.  Often the battle
lasts two or three hours.

Indian girls have dolls, and they dress them and sing them to sleep. They play "house," and
often have doll-house moving.

Indian men and boys are fond of swimming, and they are very good swimmers.  They are also fond
of sailing in their canoes.   The canoe is made of the bark of the birch tree.  The Indians
paddle their canoes.  They can make them go very fast.

Many of the Indians now live in houses and have farms the same as white men, and they raise
corn and vegetables and fruit.  They have horses and cows and sheep as other farmers have.
And we may hope that before long the Red Men will live in the same way as white men, and be
as well off and as happy.

THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

The Philippine Islands are far away on the other side of the earth, near China.  There are
a great many of these islands.  Most of them are small.  But some of them are large islands,
and many people live on them.  The largest of the islands is called Luzon.  The largest town
in this island is Manila.

Many tribes of people live in the Philippine Islands.  Each tribe has a language of its own.

It is very warm in these islands.  So the people need but little clothing.  Their houses are
not very high.  The highest house is only two stories.  In some parts they have strange windows
in their houses. The panes are not made of glass, as in our houses.  They are made of oyster
shells.  But they are not like our oyster shells.  They are very thin--so thin that the light
can come through them nearly as well as through glass.  The shell is made square, and fits
in the window like a pane of glass.  Sometimes the sides or walls of the upper stories are
made of frames, with oyster shells for panes.  The people can slide these walls back, so as
to let the cool air into the rooms.

There is one tribe in the islands called the Moro tribe.  The people of this tribe have very
strange houses.  They build their houses in the water near the shore.  They build them on the
top of long poles.  The first stories are high above the water.  The people use ladders to
go up to them.  These houses are built of bamboo.

The bamboo is very useful in the country where it grows.  It is a kind of reed, and grows very
tall.  It has joints like the joints of a corn stalk.  It is not solid like a corn stalk, but
is hollow inside.  It is so thick and strong that the people make houses of it and all kinds
of furniture.

The Moro men are good sailors and swimmers.  They are also good divers. They dive into the
water for pearls and coral.  They can stay under the water for two or three minutes at a time.
The children also are good swimmers.  They spend a great deal of time in the water.

There is another tribe called the Man'gy-ans.  These people live in the mountains.  They have
black hair and flat noses.  They are very strong, for they spend most of their time out of doors.

Some months of the year they do not live in houses.  They sleep under trees.  But other months
of the year it rains very much.  Then they sleep in houses.  Their houses are made of poles
with roofs of leaves.

The Mangyan women and girls wear a very strange kind of dress.  It is made of cords coiled
around their waists.  The cords are narrow strips of rattan braided together.  Rattan is the
stem of a plant which grows to a very great height.  It sometimes grows a hundred feet high.
It is as thick as a man's wrist, and it is very tough and strong.  The people split the rattan
into thin strips.  With these they make baskets, seats of chairs, walking canes, ropes, and
many other things.

The Mangyan men are good hunters.  They hunt an animal called the tim'a-rau.  It is like a
buffalo.  They shoot it with bows and arrows.

There are a great many large forests in the Philippines, and there are very fine trees in them.
The most useful of the plants or trees is the bamboo.  I have already told you about it.  The
cocoanut palm is also a very useful tree.  The nuts give food and drink and oil.

On one of the islands there is a wonderful plant called the pitcher plant.  Its leaves are
in the shape of pitchers.  Some of the pitchers have lids, and are large enough to hold a pint
of water.

