But the splendor of the scene allured neither the eye nor the mind of the Son. The gluttonies,
the gorgeous feasts, the hollow compliments and lies of the people did not attract him. His
mission, he told his Tempter, was not yet to free that people, once just and frugal, now debased
by their insatiable ambition. When the time came for him to sit on David's throne, this with
all other kingdoms of the earth would be shattered while his kingdom would be eternal.

"Though thou despisest my offers," cried Satan, "thou knowest that I esteem them highly, and
will not part with them for nought. This is the condition; Wilt thou fall down and worship
me as thy superior lord?"

"It is written, thou accursed one," responded the Savior in disdain, "that thou shouldst worship
and serve the Lord thy God alone. Who gave thee the kingdoms of the earth if He did not? And
what gratitude thou showest! Get thee behind me! Truly thou art Satan!"

Satan, abashed but not silenced, pointed southwest toward Athens. Since the Savior seemed to
prefer a contemplative life, why should he not seek that seat of learning? All wisdom was not
contained in Moses' law and the writings of the prophets. Let him master the learning of the
great Athenian teachers, philosophers and orators, and he would be a king within himself.

But the Savior assured Satan that, having received light from above, he knew how false and
fallacious were the boasted philosophies of the Greeks. Their philosophers, ignorant of themselves
and of God, and arrogating all glory to themselves and ascribing none to Him, were unable to
impart wisdom to any one. From Hebrew psalm and hymn, and captive harps in Babylon, the Greeks
derived their arts, and the results, the odious praises of their vicious gods, could not compare
with the songs of Sion in praise of the Father. Their orators, too, were far below the Hebrew
prophets. "Stay in the wilderness, then," thundered Satan, wroth at this failure. "Since neither
riches nor arms, nor power, nor yet the contemplative life please thee, it is for thee the
fittest place! But the time will yet come when violence, stripes, and a cruel death will make
thee long for me and my proffered power. Truly the stars promise thee a kingdom, but of what
kind and when I cannot read."

As he disappeared, darkness fell, and the Son of God, still hungry and cold, sought rest under
a sheltering tree. But Satan watched near, and forbade rest. Thunder and lightning shook the
Heavens; rain drenched the earth; the fury of the winds was loosed, and in their path the sturdiest
trees were uprooted. Ghosts, furies, raved around the holy one, but, unshaken by fear, he endured
all calmly, and came forth, as the bright sun shone upon the earth, to meet again the Prince
of Darkness.

Enraged that the terrors of the night had had no effect upon his enemy, Satan cried out that
he still doubted that the wanderer in the wilderness was the Son of God in the true sense,
and would therefore try him another way.

So speaking, he caught him up and bore him through the air unto Jerusalem, and setting him
on the highest pinnacle of the glorious Temple, said scornfully:--

"Stand there, if thou canst; I have placed thee highest in thy Father's house. Now show if
thou art indeed the Son of God. Cast thyself down, for it is written that He will command his
angels concerning thee, so that they in their hands shall uplift thee."

"It is also written," said Jesus, "'Tempt not the Lord thy God.'" And as he so spoke and stood,
Satan, overcome with amazement, fell whence he had expected to see his conqueror fall, and,
struck with dread and anguish at his certain defeat, fled to his rebel angels.

Straightway, a "fiery globe" of angels received the Son on their pinions, bore him from the
pinnacle into a flowery vale, and there refreshed him with ambrosial food and water from the
Fount of Life, while all around him the angelic choir sang his praises for the conquest of
his enemy, and encouraged him to go forth on his work of saving mankind. Him was then invincible and
yet'gentle class, and harby they belonged of Top. then he always, and
they did not belong to her. Though he was power.

Like mechanism of he kept all change to himself. And to unobserved
class regained his power.



Satan, meeting the Savior in the wilderness, tempted him to change the stones to bread, and
then, after endeavoring to awake in him a longing for wealth and power, appealed to his ambition
by leading him to a mountain top, and displaying to him the kingdoms of the earth.

  With that (such power was given him then), he [Satan] took
  The Son of God up to a mountain high.
  It was a mountain at whose verdant feet
  A spacious plain outstretched in circuit wide
  Lay pleasant; from his side two rivers flowed,
  The one winding, the other straight, and left between
  Fair champaign, with less rivers interveined,
  Then meeting joined their tribute to the sea.
  Fertile of corn the glebe, of oil, and wine;
  With herds the pasture thronged, with flocks the hills;
  Huge cities and high-towered, that well might seem
  The seats of mightiest monarchs; and so large
  The prospect was that here and there was room
  For barren desert, fountainless and dry.
  To this high mountain-top the Tempter brought
  Our Saviour, and new train of words began:--

  "Well have we speeded, and o'er hill and dale,
  Forest, and field, and flood, temples and towers,
  Cut shorter many a league. Here thou behold'st
  Assyria, and her empire's ancient bounds,
  Araxes and the Caspian lake; thence on
  As far as Indus east, Euphrates west,
  And oft beyond; to south the Persian bay,
  And, inaccessible, the Arabian drouth:
  Here, Nineveh, of length within her wall
  Several days' journey, built by Ninus old,
  Of that first golden monarchy the seat,
  And seat of Salmanassar, whose success
  Israel in long captivity still mourns;
  There Babylon, the wonder of all tongues,
  As ancient, but rebuilt by him who twice
  Judah and all thy father David's house
  Led captive, and Jerusalem laid waste,
  Till Cyrus set them free; Persepolis,
  His city, there thou seest, and Bactra there;
  Ecbatana her structure vast there shows,
  And Hecatompylos her hundred gates;
  There Susa by Choaspes, amber stream,
  The drink of none but kings; of later fame,
  Built by Emathian or by Parthian hands,
  The great Seleucia, Nisibis, and there
  Artaxata, Teredon, Ctesiphon,
  Turning with easy eye, thou may'st behold.
  All these the Parthian (now some ages past
  By great Arsaces led, who founded first
  That empire) under his dominion holds,
  From the luxurious kings of Antioch won.
  And just in time thou com'st to have a view
  Of his great power; for now the Parthian king
  In Ctesiphon hath gathered all his host
  Against the Scythian, whose incursions wild
  Have wasted Sogdiana; to her aid
  He marches now in haste. See though from far,
  His thousands, in what martial equipage
  They issue forth, steel bows and shafts their arms,
  Of equal dread in flight or in pursuit--
  All horsemen, in which fight they most excel;
  See how in warlike muster they appear,
  In rhombs, and wedges, and half-moons, and wings."

