SKETCHES NEW AND OLD

by Mark Twain

Part 3.

DISGRACEFUL PERSECUTION OF A BOY

In San Francisco, the other day, "A well-dressed boy, on his way to Sunday-school, was arrested
and thrown into the city prison for stoning Chinamen."

What a commentary is this upon human justice!  What sad prominence it gives to our human disposition
to tyrannize over the weak!  San Francisco has little right to take credit to herself for her
treatment of this poor boy.  What had the child's education been?  How should he suppose it
was wrong to stone a Chinaman?  Before we side against him, along with outraged San Francisco,
let us give him a chance--let us hear the testimony for the defense.

He was a "well-dressed" boy, and a Sunday-school scholar, and therefore the chances are that
his parents were intelligent, well-to-do people, with just enough natural villainy in their
composition to make them yearn after the daily papers, and enjoy them; and so this boy had
opportunities to learn all through the week how to do right, as well as on Sunday.

It was in this way that he found out that the great commonwealth of California imposes an unlawful
mining-tax upon John the foreigner, and allows Patrick the foreigner to dig gold for nothing--probably
because the degraded Mongol is at no expense for whisky, and the refined Celt cannot exist
without it.

It was in this way that he found out that a respectable number of the tax-gatherers--it would
be unkind to say all of them--collect the tax twice, instead of once; and that, inasmuch as
they do it solely to discourage Chinese immigration into the mines, it is a thing that is much
applauded, and likewise regarded as being singularly facetious.

It was in this way that he found out that when a white man robs a sluice-box (by the term white
man is meant Spaniards, Mexicans, Portuguese, Irish, Hondurans, Peruvians, Chileans, etc.,
etc.), they make him leave the camp; and when a Chinaman does that thing, they hang him.

It was in this way that he found out that in many districts of the vast Pacific coast, so strong
is the wild, free love of justice in the hearts of the people, that whenever any secret and
mysterious crime is committed, they say, "Let justice be done, though the heavens fall," and
go straightway and swing a Chinaman.

It was in this way that he found out that by studying one half of each day's "local items,"
it would appear that the police of San Francisco were either asleep or dead, and by studying
the other half it would seem that the reporters were gone mad with admiration of the energy,
the virtue, the high effectiveness, and the dare-devil intrepidity of that very police-making
exultant mention of how "the Argus-eyed officer So-and-so" captured a wretched knave of a Chinaman
who was stealing chickens, and brought him gloriously to the city prison; and how "the gallant
officer Such-and-such-a-one" quietly kept an eye on the movements of an "unsuspecting, almond-eyed
son of Confucius" (your reporter is nothing if not facetious), following him around with that
far-off look. of vacancy and unconsciousness always so finely affected by that inscrutable
being, the forty-dollar policeman, during a waking interval, and captured him at last in the
very act of placing his hands in a suspicious manner upon a paper of tacks, left by the owner
in an exposed situation; and how one officer performed this prodigious thing, and another officer
that, and another the other--and pretty much every one of these performances having for a dazzling
central incident a Chinaman guilty of a shilling's worth of crime, an unfortunate, whose misdemeanor
must be hurrahed into something enormous in order to keep the public from noticing how many
really important rascals went uncaptured in the mean time, and how overrated those glorified
policemen actually are.

It was in this way that the boy found out that the legislature, being aware that the Constitution
has made America, an asylum for the poor and the oppressed of all nations, and that, therefore,
the poor and oppressed who fly to our shelter must not be charged a disabling admission fee,
made a law that every Chinaman, upon landing, must be vaccinated upon the wharf, and pay to
the state's appointed officer ten dollars for the service, when there are plenty of doctors
in San Francisco who would be glad enough to do it for him for fifty cents.

It was in this way that the boy found out that a Chinaman had no rights that any man was bound
to respect; that he had no sorrows that any man was bound to pity; that neither his life nor
his liberty was worth the purchase of a penny when a white man needed a scapegoat; that nobody
loved Chinamen, nobody befriended them, nobody spared them suffering when it was convenient
to inflict it; everybody, individuals, communities, the majesty of the state itself, joined
in hating, abusing, and persecuting these humble strangers.

And, therefore, what could have been more natural than for this sunny-hearted-boy, tripping
along to Sunday-school, with his mind teeming with freshly learned incentives to high and virtuous
action, to say to himself:

"Ah, there goes a Chinaman!  God will not love me if I do not stone him."

And for this he was arrested and put in the city jail.

Everything conspired to teach him that it was a high and holy thing to stone a Chinaman, and
yet he no sooner attempts to do his duty than he is punished for it--he, poor chap, who has
been aware all his life that one of the principal recreations of the police, out toward the
Gold Refinery, is to look on with tranquil enjoyment while the butchers of Brannan Street set
their dogs on unoffending Chinamen, and make them flee for their lives.

--[I have many such memories in my mind, but am thinking just at present of one particular
one, where the Brannan Street butchers set their dogs on a Chinaman who was quietly passing
with a basket of clothes on his head; and while the dogs mutilated his flesh, a butcher increased
the hilarity of the occasion by knocking some of the Chinaman's teeth down his throat with
half a brick.  This incident sticks in my memory with a more malevolent tenacity, perhaps,
on account of the fact that I was in the employ of a San Francisco journal at the time, and
was not allowed to publish it because it might offend some of the peculiar element that subscribed
for the paper.]

Keeping in mind the tuition in the humanities which the entire "Pacific coast" gives its youth,
there is a very sublimity of incongruity in the virtuous flourish with which the good city
fathers of San Francisco proclaim (as they have lately done) that "The police are positively
ordered to arrest all boys, of every description and wherever found, who engage in assaulting
Chinamen."

Still, let us be truly glad they have made the order, notwithstanding its inconsistency; and
let us rest perfectly confident the police are glad, too.  Because there is no personal peril
in arresting boys, provided they be of the small kind, and the reporters will have to laud
their performances just as loyally as ever, or go without items.

The new form for local items in San Francisco will now be: "The ever-vigilant and efficient
officer So-and-so succeeded, yesterday afternoon, in arresting Master Tommy Jones, after a
determined resistance," etc., etc., followed by the customary statistics and final hurrah,
with its unconscious sarcasm: "We are happy in being able to state that this is the forty-seventh
boy arrested by this gallant officer since the new ordinance went into effect.  The most extraordinary
activity prevails in the police department.  Nothing like it has been seen since we can remember."

THE JUDGE'S "SPIRITED WOMAN"

"I was sitting here," said the judge, "in this old pulpit, holding court, and we were trying
a big, wicked-looking Spanish desperado for killing the husband of a bright, pretty Mexican
woman. It was a lazy summer day, and an awfully long one, and the witnesses were tedious. 
None of us took any interest in the trial except that nervous, uneasy devil of a Mexican woman
because you know how they love and how they hate, and this one had loved her husband with all
her might, and now she had boiled it all down into hate, and stood here spitting it at that
Spaniard with her eyes; and I tell you she would stir me up, too, with a little of her summer
lightning, occasionally.  Well, I had my coat off and my heels up, lolling and sweating, and
smoking one of those cabbage cigars the San Francisco people used to think were good enough
for us in those times; and the lawyers they all had their coats off, and were smoking and whittling,
and the witnesses the same, and so was the prisoner.  Well, the fact is, there warn't any interest
in a murder trial then, because the fellow was always brought in 'not guilty,' the jury expecting
him to do as much for them some time; and, although the evidence was straight and square against
this Spaniard, we knew we could not convict him without seeming to be rather high-handed and
sort of reflecting on every gentleman in the community; for there warn't any carriages and
liveries then, and so the only 'style' there was, was to keep your private graveyard.  But
that woman seemed to have her heart set on hanging that Spaniard; and you'd ought to have seen
how she would glare on him a minute, and then look up at me in her pleading way, and then turn
and for the next five minutes search the jury's faces, and by and by drop her face in her hands
for just a little while as if she was most ready to give up; but out she'd come again directly,
and be as live and anxious as ever.  But when the jury announced the verdict--Not Guilty--and
I told the prisoner he was acquitted and free to go, that woman rose up till she appeared to
be as tall and grand as a seventy-four-gun ship, and says she:

"'Judge, do I understand you to say that this man is not guilty that murdered my husband without
any cause before my own eyes and my little children's, and that all has been done to him that
ever justice and the law can do?'

"'The same,' says I.

"And then what do you reckon she did?  Why, she turned on that smirking Spanish fool like a
wildcat, and out with a 'navy' and shot him dead in open court!"

"That was spirited, I am willing to admit."

"Wasn't it, though?" said the judge admiringly.

"I wouldn't have missed it for anything.  I adjourned court right on the spot, and we put on
our coats and went out and took up a collection for her and her cubs, and sent them over the
mountains to their friends. Ah, she was a spirited wench!"

INFORMATION WANTED

                              "WASHINGTON, December 10, 1867.

"Could you give me any information respecting such islands, if any, as the government is going
to purchase?"

It is an uncle of mine that wants to know.  He is an industrious man and well disposed, and
wants to make a living in an honest, humble way, but more especially he wants to be quiet.
He wishes to settle down, and be quiet and unostentatious.  He has been to the new island St.
Thomas, but he says he thinks things are unsettled there.  He went there early with an attache
of the State Department, who was sent down with money to pay for the island.  My uncle had
his money in the same box, and so when they went ashore, getting a receipt, the sailors broke
open the box and took all the money, not making any distinction between government money, which
was legitimate money to be stolen, and my uncle's, which was his own private property, and
should have been respected.  But he came home and got some more and went back.  And then he
took the fever.  There are seven kinds of fever down there, you know; and, as his blood was
out of order by reason of loss of sleep and general wear and tear of mind, he failed to cure
the first fever, and then somehow he got the other six. He is not a kind of man that enjoys
fevers, though he is well meaning and always does what he thinks is right, and so he was a
good deal annoyed when it appeared he was going to die.

But he worried through, and got well and started a farm.  He fenced it in, and the next day
that great storm came on and washed the most of it over to Gibraltar, or around there somewhere.
He only said, in his patient way, that it was gone, and he wouldn't bother about trying to
find out where it went to, though it was his opinion it went to Gibraltar.

Then he invested in a mountain, and started a farm up there, so as to be out of the way when
the sea came ashore again.  It was a good mountain, and a good farm, but it wasn't any use;
an earthquake came the next night and shook it all down.  It was all fragments, you know, and
so mixed up with another man's property that he could not tell which were his fragments without
going to law; and he would not do that, because his main object in going to St. Thomas was
to be quiet.  All that he wanted was to settle down and be quiet.

He thought it all over, and finally he concluded to try the low ground again, especially as
he wanted to start a brickyard this time.  He bought a flat, and put out a hundred thousand
bricks to dry preparatory to baking them.  But luck appeared to be against him.  A volcano
shoved itself through there that night, and elevated his brickyard about two thousand feet
in the air.  It irritated him a good deal.  He has been up there, and he says the bricks are
all baked right enough, but he can't get them down.  At first, he thought maybe the government
would get the bricks down for him, because since government bought the island, it ought to
protect the property where a man has invested in good faith; but all he wants is quiet, and
so he is not going to apply for the subsidy he was thinking about.

He went back there last week in a couple of ships of war, to prospect around the coast for
a safe place for a farm where he could be quiet; but a great "tidal wave" came, and hoisted
both of the ships out into one of the interior counties, and he came near losing his life.
So he has given up prospecting in a ship, and is discouraged.

Well, now he don't know what to do.  He has tried Alaska; but the bears kept after him so much,
and kept him so much on the jump, as it were, that he had to leave the country.  He could not
be quiet there with those bears prancing after him all the time.  That is how he came to go
to the new island we have bought--St. Thomas.  But he is getting to think St. Thomas is not
quiet enough for a man of his turn of mind, and that is why he wishes me to find out if government
is likely to buy some more islands shortly.  He has heard that government is thinking about
buying Porto Rico.  If that is true, he wishes to try Porto Rico, if it is a quiet place. 
How is Porto Rico for his style of man?  Do you think the government will buy it?

SOME LEARNED FABLES, FOR GOOD OLD BOYS AND GIRLS

IN THREE PARTS

PART FIRST

HOW THE ANIMALS OF THE WOOD SENT OUT A SCIENTIFIC EXPEDITION

Once the creatures of the forest held a great convention and appointed a commission consisting
of the most illustrious scientists among them to go forth, clear beyond the forest and out
into the unknown and unexplored world, to verify the truth of the matters already taught in
their schools and colleges and also to make discoveries.  It was the most imposing enterprise
of the kind the nation had ever embarked in.  True, the government had once sent Dr. Bull Frog,
with a picked crew, to hunt for a northwesterly passage through the swamp to the right-hand
corner of the wood, and had since sent out many expeditions to hunt for Dr. Bull Frog; but
they never could find him, and so government finally gave him up and ennobled his mother to
show its gratitude for the services her son had rendered to science.  And once government sent
Sir Grass Hopper to hunt for the sources of the rill that emptied into the swamp; and afterward
sent out many expeditions to hunt for Sir Grass, and at last they were successful--they found
his body, but if he had discovered the sources meantime, he did not let on.  So government
acted handsomely by deceased, and many envied his funeral.

But these expeditions were trifles compared with the present one; for this one comprised among
its servants the very greatest among the learned; and besides it was to go to the utterly unvisited
regions believed to lie beyond the mighty forest--as we have remarked before. How the members
were banqueted, and glorified, and talked about! Everywhere that one of them showed himself,
straightway there was a crowd to gape and stare at him.

Finally they set off, and it was a sight to see the long procession of dry-land Tortoises heavily
laden with savants, scientific instruments, Glow-Worms and Fire-Flies for signal service, provisions,
Ants and Tumble-Bugs to fetch and carry and delve, Spiders to carry the surveying chain and
do other engineering duty, and so forth and so on; and after the Tortoises came another long
train of ironclads--stately and spacious Mud Turtles for marine transportation service; and
from every Tortoise and every Turtle flaunted a flaming gladiolus or other splendid banner;
at the head of the column a great band of Bumble-Bees, Mosquitoes, Katy-Dids, and Crickets
discoursed martial music; and the entire train was under the escort and protection of twelve
picked regiments of the Army Worm.

At the end of three weeks the expedition emerged from the forest and looked upon the great
Unknown World.  Their eyes were greeted with an impressive spectacle.  A vast level plain stretched
before them, watered by a sinuous stream; and beyond there towered up against the sky along
and lofty barrier of some kind, they did not know what.  The Tumble-Bug said he believed it
was simply land tilted up on its edge, because he knew he could see trees on it.  But Professor
Snail and the others said:

"You are hired to dig, sir--that is all.  We need your muscle, not your brains.  When we want
your opinion on scientific matters, we will hasten to let you know.  Your coolness is intolerable,
too--loafing about here meddling with august matters of learning, when the other laborers are
pitching camp.  Go along and help handle the baggage."

The Tumble-Bug turned on his heel uncrushed, unabashed, observing to himself, "If it isn't
land tilted up, let me die the death of the unrighteous."

Professor Bull Frog (nephew of the late explorer) said he believed the ridge was the wall that
inclosed the earth.  He continued:

"Our fathers have left us much learning, but they had not traveled far, and so we may count
this a noble new discovery.  We are safe for renown now, even though our labors began and ended
with this single achievement. I wonder what this wall is built of?  Can it be fungus?  Fungus
is an honorable good thing to build a wall of."

Professor Snail adjusted his field-glass and examined the rampart critically.  Finally he said:

"'The fact that it is not diaphanous convinces me that it is a dense vapor formed by the calorification
of ascending moisture dephlogisticated by refraction.  A few endiometrical experiments would
confirm this, but it is not necessary.  The thing is obvious."

So he shut up his glass and went into his shell to make a note of the discovery of the world's
end, and the nature of it.

"Profound mind!" said Professor Angle-Worm to Professor Field-Mouse; "profound mind! nothing
can long remain a mystery to that august brain."

Night drew on apace, the sentinel crickets were posted, the Glow-Worm and Fire-Fly lamps were
lighted, and the camp sank to silence and sleep. After breakfast in the morning, the expedition
moved on.  About noon a great avenue was reached, which had in it two endless parallel bars
of some kind of hard black substance, raised the height of the tallest Bull Frog, above the
general level.  The scientists climbed up on these and examined and tested them in various
ways.  They walked along them for a great distance, but found no end and no break in them.
They could arrive at no decision.  There was nothing in the records of science that mentioned
anything of this kind.  But at last the bald and venerable geographer, Professor Mud Turtle,
a person who, born poor, and of a drudging low family, had, by his own native force raised
himself to the headship of the geographers of his generation, said:

"'My friends, we have indeed made a discovery here.  We have found in a palpable, compact,
and imperishable state what the wisest of our fathers always regarded as a mere thing of the
imagination.  Humble yourselves, my friends, for we stand in a majestic presence.  These are
parallels of latitude!"

Every heart and every head was bowed, so awful, so sublime was the magnitude of the discovery.
Many shed tears.

The camp was pitched and the rest of the day given up to writing voluminous accounts of the
marvel, and correcting astronomical tables to fit it.  Toward midnight a demoniacal shriek
was heard, then a clattering and rumbling noise, and the next instant a vast terrific eye shot
by, with a long tail attached, and disappeared in the gloom, still uttering triumphant shrieks.

The poor damp laborers were stricken to the heart with fright, and stampeded for the high grass
in a body.  But not the scientists.  They had no superstitions.  They calmly proceeded to exchange
theories. The ancient geographer's opinion was asked.  He went into his shell and deliberated
long and profoundly.  When he came out at last, they all knew by his worshiping countenance
that he brought light.  Said he:

"Give thanks for this stupendous thing which we have been permitted to witness.  It is the
Vernal Equinox!"

There were shoutings and great rejoicings.

"But," said the Angle-Worm, uncoiling after reflection, "this is dead summer-time."

"Very well," said the Turtle, "we are far from our region; the season differs with the difference
of time between the two points."

"Ah, true:  True enough.  But it is night.  How should the sun pass in the night?"

"In these distant regions he doubtless passes always in the night at this hour."

"Yes, doubtless that is true.  But it being night, how is it that we could see him?"

"It is a great mystery.  I grant that.  But I am persuaded that the humidity of the atmosphere
in these remote regions is such that particles of daylight adhere to the disk and it was by
aid of these that we were enabled to see the sun in the dark."

This was deemed satisfactory, and due entry was made of the decision.

But about this moment those dreadful shriekings were heard again; again the rumbling and thundering
came speeding up out of the night; and once more a flaming great eye flashed by and lost itself
in gloom and distance.

The camp laborers gave themselves up for lost.  The savants were sorely perplexed.  Here was
a marvel hard to account for.  They thought and they talked, they talked and they thought.
Finally the learned and aged Lord Grand-Daddy-Longlegs, who had been sitting in deep study,
with his slender limbs crossed and his stemmy arms folded, said:

"Deliver your opinions, brethren, and then I will tell my thought--for I think I have solved
this problem."

"So be it, good your lordship," piped the weak treble of the wrinkled and withered Professor
Woodlouse, "for we shall hear from your lordship's lips naught but wisdom."  [Here the speaker
threw in a mess of trite, threadbare, exasperating quotations from the ancient poets and philosophers,
delivering them with unction in the sounding grandeurs of the original tongues, they being
from the Mastodon, the Dodo, and other dead languages.]  "Perhaps I ought not to presume to
meddle with matters pertaining to astronomy at all, in such a presence as this, I who have
made it the business of my life to delve only among the riches of the extinct languages and
unearth the opulence of their ancient lore; but still, as unacquainted as I am with the noble
science of astronomy, I beg with deference and humility to suggest that inasmuch as the last
of these wonderful apparitions proceeded in exactly the opposite direction from that pursued
by the first, which you decide to be the Vernal Equinox, and greatly resembled it in all particulars,
is it not possible, nay certain, that this last is the Autumnal Equi--"

"O-o-o!"  "O-o-o! go to bed! go to bed!" with annoyed derision from everybody.  So the poor
old Woodlouse retreated out of sight, consumed with shame.

Further discussion followed, and then the united voice of the commission begged Lord Longlegs
to speak.  He said:

"Fellow-scientists, it is my belief that we have witnessed a thing which has occurred in perfection
but once before in the knowledge of created beings.  It is a phenomenon of inconceivable importance
and interest, view it as one may, but its interest to us is vastly heightened by an added knowledge
of its nature which no scholar has heretofore possessed or even suspected.  This great marvel
which we have just witnessed, fellow-savants (it almost takes my breath away), is nothing less
than the transit of Venus!"

Every scholar sprang to his feet pale with astonishment.  Then ensued tears, handshakings,
frenzied embraces, and the most extravagant jubilations of every sort.  But by and by, as emotion
began to retire within bounds, and reflection to return to the front, the accomplished Chief
Inspector Lizard observed:

"But how is this?  Venus should traverse the sun's surface, not the earth's."

The arrow went home.  It earned sorrow to the breast of every apostle of learning there, for
none could deny that this was a formidable criticism. But tranquilly the venerable Duke crossed
his limbs behind his ears and said:

"My friend has touched the marrow of our mighty discovery.  Yes--all that have lived before
us thought a transit of Venus consisted of a flight across the sun's face; they thought it,
they maintained it, they honestly believed it, simple hearts, and were justified in it by the
limitations of their knowledge; but to us has been granted the inestimable boon of proving
that the transit occurs across the earth's face, for we have SEEN it!"

The assembled wisdom sat in speechless adoration of this imperial intellect.  All doubts had
instantly departed, like night before the lightning.

The Tumble-Bug had just intruded, unnoticed.  He now came reeling forward among the scholars,
familiarly slapping first one and then another on the shoulder, saying "Nice ('ic) nice old
boy!" and smiling a smile of elaborate content.  Arrived at a good position for speaking, he
put his left arm akimbo with his knuckles planted in his hip just under the edge of his cut-away
coat, bent his right leg, placing his toe on the ground and resting his heel with easy grace
against his left shin, puffed out his aldermanic stomach, opened his lips, leaned his right
elbow on Inspector Lizard's shoulder, and--

