In this edition I give the best maps which I believe have ever been prepared, compiled by General
O. M. Poe, from personal knowledge and official surveys, and what I chiefly aim to establish
is the true cause of the results which are already known to the whole world; and it may be
a relief to many to know that I shall publish no other, but, like the player at cards, will
"stand;" not that I have accomplished perfection, but because I can do no better with the cards
in hand.  Of omissions there are plenty, but of wilful perversion of facts, none.

Another decade is past, and I am in possession of all these publications, my last being Volume
XI, Part 3, Series 1, the last date in which is August 30, 1862.  I am afraid that if I assume
again the character of prophet, I must extend the time deep into the next century, and pray
meanwhile that the official records of the war, Union and Confederate, may approach completion
before the "next war," or rather that we, as a people, may be spared another war until the
last one is officially recorded.  Meantime the rising generation must be content with memoirs
and histories compiled from the best sources available.

In this sense I offer mine as to the events of which I was an eye-witness and participant,
or for which I was responsible.

WILLIAM T. SHERMAN, General (retired).

St. Louis, Missouri, March 30, 1885.

MEMOIRS OF GENERAL WILLIAM T. SHERMAN.

CHAPTER I.

FROM 1820 TO THE MEXICAN WAR.

1820-1846.

According to Cothren, in his "History of Ancient Woodbury, Connecticut," the Sherman family
came from Dedham, Essex County, England.  The first recorded name is of Edmond Sherman, with
his three sons, Edmond, Samuel, and John, who were at Boston before 1636; and farther it is
distinctly recorded that Hon. Samuel Sherman, Rev. John, his brother, and Captain John, his
first cousin, arrived from Dedham, Essex County, England, in 1634. Samuel afterward married
Sarah Mitchell, who had come (in the same ship) from England, and finally settled at Stratford,
Connecticut. The other two (Johns) located at Watertown, Massachusetts.

From Captain John Sherman are descended Roger Sherman, the signer of the Declaration of Independence,
Hon. William M. Evarts, the Messrs. Hoar, of Massachusetts, and many others of national fame.
Our own family are descended from the Hon. Samuel Sherman and his son; the Rev. John, who was
born in 1650-'51; then another John, born in 1687; then Judge Daniel, born in 1721; then Taylor
Sherman, our grandfather, who was born in 1758.  Taylor Sherman was a lawyer and judge in Norwalk,
Connecticut, where he resided until his death, May 4, 1815; leaving a widow, Betsey Stoddard
Sherman, and three children, Charles R. (our father), Daniel, and Betsey.

When the State of Connecticut, in 1786, ceded to the United States her claim to the western
part of her public domain, as defined by her Royal Charter, she reserved a large district in
what is now northern Ohio, a portion of which (five hundred thousand acres) composed the "Fire-Land
District," which was set apart to indemnify the parties who had lost property in Connecticut
by the raids of Generals Arnold, Tryon, and others during the latter part of the Revolutionary War.

Our grandfather, Judge Taylor Sherman, was one of the commissioners appointed by the State
of Connecticut to quiet the Indian title, and to survey and subdivide this Fire-Land District,
which includes the present counties of Huron and Erie.  In his capacity as commissioner he
made several trips to Ohio in the early part of this century, and it is supposed that he then
contracted the disease which proved fatal.  For his labor and losses he received a title to
two sections of land, which fact was probably the prime cause of the migration of our family
to the West.  My father received a good education, and was admitted to the bar at Norwalk,
Connecticut, where, in 1810, he, at twenty years of age, married Mary Hoyt, also of Norwalk,
and at once migrated to Ohio, leaving his wife (my mother) for a time.  His first purpose was
to settle at Zanesville, Ohio, but he finally chose Lancaster, Fairfield County, where he at
once engaged in the, practice of his profession.  In 1811 he returned to Norwalk, where, meantime,
was born Charles Taylor Sherman, the eldest of the family, who with his mother was carried
to Ohio on horseback.

Judge Taylor Sherman's family remained in Norwalk till 1815, when his death led to the emigration
of the remainder of the family, viz., of Uncle Daniel Sherman, who settled at Monroeville,
Ohio, as a farmer, where he lived and died quite recently, leaving children and grandchildren;
and an aunt, Betsey, who married Judge Parker, of Mansfield, and died in 1851, leaving children
and grandchildren; also Grandmother Elizabeth Stoddard Sherman, who resided with her daughter,
Mrs: Betsey Parker, in Mansfield until her death, August 1,1848.

Thus my father, Charles R. Sherman, became finally established at Lancaster, Ohio, as a lawyer,
with his own family in the year 1811, and continued there till the time of his death, in 1829.
I have no doubt that he was in the first instance attracted to Lancaster by the natural beauty
of its scenery, and the charms of its already established society.  He continued in the practice
of his profession, which in those days was no sinecure, for the ordinary circuit was made on
horseback, and embraced Marietta, Cincinnati, and Detroit.  Hardly was the family established
there when the War of 1812 caused great alarm and distress in all Ohio.  The English captured
Detroit and the shores of Lake Erie down to the Maumee River; while the Indians still occupied
the greater part of the State.  Nearly every man had to be somewhat of a soldier, but I think
my father was only a commissary; still, he seems to have caught a fancy for the great chief
of the Shawnees, "Tecumseh."

Perry's victory on Lake Erie was the turning-point of the Western campaign, and General Harrison's
victory over the British and Indians at the river Thames in Canada ended the war in the West,
and restored peace and tranquillity to the exposed settlers of Ohio.  My father at once resumed
his practice at the bar, and was soon recognized as an able and successful lawyer.  When, in
1816, my brother James was born, he insisted on engrafting the Indian name "Tecumseh" on the
usual family list.  My mother had already named her first son after her own brother Charles;
and insisted on the second son taking the name of her other brother James, and when I came
along, on the 8th of February, 1820, mother having no more brothers, my father succeeded in
his original purpose, and named me William Tecumseh.

The family rapidly increased till it embraced six boys and five girls, all of whom attained
maturity and married; of these six are still living.

In the year 1821 a vacancy occurred in the Supreme Court of Ohio, and I find this petition:

Somerset, Ohio, July 6, 1821.

May it please your Excellency:

We ask leave to recommend to your Excellency's favorable notice Charles R. Sherman, Esq., of
Lancaster, as a man possessing in an eminent degree those qualifications so much to be desired
in a Judge of the Supreme Court.

From a long acquaintance with Mr. Sherman, we are happy to be able to state to your Excellency
that our minds are led to the conclusion that that gentleman possesses a disposition noble
and generous, a mind discriminating, comprehensive, and combining a heart pure, benevolent
and humane.  Manners dignified, mild, and complaisant, and a firmness not to be shaken and
of unquestioned integrity.

