  If this be the case, why does he require more evidence, since none can be sufficient?
Or to what purpose is it to vindicate the particular evidence of the resurrection of Christ,
so long  as this  general prejudice, that a resurrection is incapable of being proved, remains
unremoved? I am under a necessity therefore to consider this observation in the first place,
that it might lie as a dead weight upon all I have to offer in support of the evidence of Christ's
resurrection.

	The gentleman allows it to be reasonable in many cases to act upon the testimony and credit
of others; but he thinks this should be confined to such cases, where the thing testified is
probable, possible,  and according to the usual course of nature. The Gentleman does not, I
suppose, pretend to know the extent of all natural possibilities, much less will he suppose
them to be generally known; and therefore his meaning must be, that the testimony of witnesses
is to be received only in cases which appear to us to be possible. In any other sense we can
have no dispute; for mere impossibilities, which can never exist, can never be proved.  Taking
the observation therefore in this sense, the proposition is this: That the testimony of others
ought not to be admitted, but in such matters as appear probable, or at least possible to our
conceptions.  For instance: A man who lives in a warm climate, and never saw ice, ought upon
no evidence to believe, that rivers freeze, and grow hard, in cold countries; for this is improbable,
contrary to the usual course of nature, and impossible according to his notion of things. 
And yet we all know, that this is a plain manifest case discernible by the senses of men; of
which therefore they are qualified to be good witnesses.  An hundred such instances might be
named; but 'tis needless:  for surely nothing is more apparently absurd than to make one man's
ability in discerning and his veracity in reporting plain facts, depend upon the skill or ignorance
of the hearer.  And what has the Gentleman said upon this occasion against the resurrection,
more than any man who never saw ice might say against an hundred honest witnesses, who assert
that water turns to ice in cold climates?

Yet it is very true, that men do not so easily believe, upon testimony of others, things which
to them seem improbable or impossible; but the reason is not, because the thing itself admits
no evidence, but because the hearer's  preconceived opinion outweighs  the credit of the reporter
and makes his veracity to be called in question. For instance it is natural for a stone to
roll down hill, it is unnatural for it to roll up hill: but a stone moving uphill is as much
the object of sense as a stone moving downhill; and all men in their senses are as capable
of seeing  and judging and reporting the fact in one case, as in the other.  Should a man then
tell you, that he saw a stone go uphill of its own accord, you might question his veracity;
but you could not say the thing admitted no evidence, because it was contrary to the law and
usual course of nature; for the law of nature formed to yourself from your own experience and
reasoning  is quite independent of the matter of fact which the man testifies:  and whenever
you see facts yourself, which contradict your notions of the law of nature, you admit the facts,
because you believe yourself; when you do not admit like facts upon the evidence of others,
it is because you do not believe them, and not because the facts in their own nature exclude
all evidence.

Suppose a man should tell you, that he was come from the dead, you would be apt to suspect
his evidence.  But what would you suspect? That he was not alive when you heard him, saw him,
felt him,  and conversed with him?  You could not suspect  this, without giving up all your
senses and acting in this case as you act in no other.  Here then you would question, whether
the man had ever been dead? But would you say, that it is incapable of being made plain by
human testimony, that this or that man died a year ago? It can't be said.  Evidence in this
case is admitted in all courts perpetually

Consider it the other way.  Suppose you saw a man publicly executed, his body afterwards was
wounded by the executioner, and carried and laid in the grave; that after this you should be
told, that the man was come to life again; what would you suspect in this case? Not that the
man had never been dead; for that you saw yourself: but you would suspect whether he was now
alive.  But would you say this case excluded all human testimony and that men could not possibly
discern , whether one with whom they conversed familiarly was alive or no? Upon what ground
could you say this?  A man rising from the grave is an object of sense, and can give the same
evidence of his being alive, as any other man in the world can give.  So that a resurrection
considered only as a fact to be proved by evidence, is a plain case; it requires no greater
ability in the witnesses, than that they be able to distinguish between a man dead, and a man
alive:  a point in which I believe every man  living thinks himself a judge.

I do allow that this case, and others of like nature, require more evidence to give them credit
than ordinary cases do.  You may therefore require more evidence in these, than in other cases;
but it is absurd to say, that such cases admit no evidence, when the things in question are
manifestly objects of sense.

I allow further, that the Gentleman has rightly stated the difficulty upon the foot of common
prejudice; and that it arises from hence, that such cases appear to be contrary to the course
of nature. But I  desire to consider what this course of nature is. Every man, from the lowest
countryman to the highest philosopher frames to himself from his experience and observation,
a notion of a course of nature; and is ready to say of everything reported to him that contradicts
his experience, that it is contrary to nature.  But will the Gentleman say, that everything
is impossible or even improbable, that contradicts the notion which men frame to themselves
of the course of nature?  I think he will not say it.  And if he will, he must say that water
can never freeze; for it is absolutely inconsistent with the notion which men have of the course
of nature, who live in the warm climates.  And hence it appears, that when men talk of the
course of nature, they really talk of their own prejudices and imaginations; and that sense
and reason are not so much concerned in the case as the Gentleman imagines. For I ask, Is it
from the evidence of sense, or the evidence of reason that people of warm climates think it
contrary to nature,  that water should grow solid, and become ice?  As for sense, they see
indeed that water with them is always liquid; but none of their senses tell them that it can
never grow solid.  As for reason, it can never so inform them; for right reason can never contradict
the truth of things.  Our senses then inform us rightly what the usual course of things is;
but when we conclude that things cannot be otherwise, we outrun the information of our senses,
and the conclusion stands upon prejudice, and not upon reason.  And yet such conclusions form
what is generally called the course of nature.  And when men upon proper evidence and informations
admit things contrary to this presupposed course of nature, they do not, as the Gentleman expresses
it, quit their own sense and reason; but, in truth, they quit their own mistakes and prejudices.

	In the case before us, the case of the resurrection, the great difficulty arises from the
like prejudice.  We all know by experience that all men die, and rise no more;  therefore we
conclude, that for a dead man to rise to life again, is contrary to the course of nature. And
certainly it is contrary to the uniform and settled course of things.  But if we argue from
hence that it is contrary and repugnant to the real laws of nature and absolutely impossible
on that account, we argue without any foundation to support us either from our senses or our
reason.  We cannot learn from our eyes, or feeling, or any other sense, that it is impossible
for a dead body to live again; if we learn it at all, it must be from our  reason; and yet
what one maxim of reason is contradicted by the supposition of a resurrection?  For my own
part; when  I consider how I live;  that all animal motions necessary to my life are independent
of my will; that my heart beats without my consent and without my direction; that digestion
and nutrition are performed by methods to which I am not conscious; that my blood moves in
a perpetual round, which is contrary to all known laws of motion: I cannot but think, that
the preservation of my life, in every moment of it, is as great an act of power, as is necessary
to raise a dead man to life.  And whoever so far reflects upon his own being as to acknowledge
that he owes it to a superior power, must needs think, that the same power which gave life
to senseless matter at first, and set all the springs and movements a-going at the beginning,
can restore life to dead body.  For surely it is not a greater thing to give life to a body
once dead, than to a body that never was alive.

	In the next place must be considered the difficulties which the gentleman has laid before
you, with regard to the nature of Christ's body after the resurrection.  He has produced some
passages which which, he thinks, imply, that the body was not a real natural body, but a mere
phantom, or apparition:  and thence concludes, that there being no real object of sense, there
can be no evidence in the case.

	Presumptions are of no weight against positive  evidence; and every account of the resurrection
assures us, that the body of  Christ was seen, felt, and handled by many persons; who were
called upon by Christ so to do, that they might be assured that he had flesh and bones, and
was not a mere spectre, as they, in their first surprize, imagined him to be. It is impossible
that they who  give this account, should mean, by anything they report, to imply that he had
no real body; it is certain, then, that when the Gentleman makes use of what they say to this
purpose, he uses their sayings contrary to their meaning:  for it is not pretended that they
say, that Christ had not a real human body after the resurrection; nor is it pretended they
had any such thought, except only upon the first surprize of seeing him, and before they had
examined him with their eyes and hands.  But something they have said, which the Gentleman,
according to his notions of philosophy, thinks, implies that the body was not real.  To clear
this point, therefore, I must lay before you the passages referred to, and consider how justly
the Gentleman reasons from them.

	The first passage relates to Mary Magdalene, who, the first time she saw Christ, was going
to embrace his feet, as the custom of the country was:  Christ says to her, [John 20:17] Touch
me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father;  but go to my brethren and tell them, etc.
Hence the gentleman concludes, that Christ's body was not such an one as would bear the touch.
But how does he infer this? Is it from these words Touch me not? It cannot be: for thousands
say it every day, without giving the least suspicion, that their bodies are not capable of
being touched.  The conclusion then must be built on those other words, For I have not yet
ascended to my Father.  but what have these words to do with the reality of his body?  It might
be real or not real, for anything that is here said.  There is a difficulty in these words,
and it may be hard to give the true sense of them; but there is no difficulty in seeing that
they have no relation to the nature of Christ's body; for of his body nothing is said. The
natural sense of the place as I collect, by comparing this passage with Matthew 28:9 is this.
Mary Magdalene, upon seeing Jesus, fell at his feet, and laid hold of them and held them as
if she meant never to let them go: Christ said to her, "Touch me not, or hang not about me
now; you will have other opportunities of seeing me for I go not yet  to my Father: lose no
time then but go quickly with my message to my brethren." I am not concerned to support this
particular interpretation of the passage; it is sufficient to my purpose, to show that the
words cannot possibly relate to the nature of Christ's body one way or other.

	The next passage relates to Christ's joining two of his disciples upon the road and conversing
with them without being known by them: it grew dark, they pressed him to stay with them that
night; he went in with them, broke bread, blessed it, and gave it them, and then they knew
him; and immediately he disappeared.

	The circumstance of disappearing, shall be considered under the next head, with other objections
of the like kind.  At present I shall only examine the other parts of this story, and inquire
whether they afford any ground to conclude that the body of Christ was not a real one.  Had
this piece of history been related of any other person I think such suspicion could have risen.
For what is there unnatural or uncommon in this account? Two men meet an acquaintance whom
they thought dead: They converse with him for some time, without suspecting who he was; the
very persuasion they were under that he was dead, contributed greatly to their not knowing
him; besides, he appeared in a habit and form different from what he used when he conversed
with them; appeared to them on a journey and walked with them side by side; in which situation
no one of  the company has a full view of another: afterwards, when they were at supper together,
and lights brought in, they plainly discerned who he was.  Upon this occasion, the Gentleman
asks what sort of witnesses these are? eye-witnesses? No; before supper they were eye-witnesses,
says the Gentleman, that the person whom they saw was not Christ: and then he demands a reason
for our rejecting the evidence of their sense when they did not know Christ, and insisting
on it when they did.

	It is no uncommon thing for men to catch themselves and others by such notable acute questions,
and to be led by the sprightliness of their imagination out of the road of truth and common
sense.  I beg leave to tell the Gentleman a short story, and then to ask him his own question.
A certain Gentleman who had been some years abroad happened in his return to England through
Paris to meet his own sister there. She was not expecting to see him there, nor he to see her,
they conversed together with other company, at a publick house, for great part of a day, without
knowing each other.  At last the Lady began to shew great signs of disorder; her color came
and went, and the eyes of the company were drawn toward her; and then she cried out, Oh my
brother!  and was hardly held from fainting.  Suppose now this Lady were to depose upon oath
in a court of justice that she saw her brother at Paris;  I would ask the Gentleman, Whether
he would object to the evidence, and say, that she was as good an eye-witness that her brother
was not there, as that he was; and demand of the court, why they rejected the evidence of her
senses when she did not know her brother, and were ready to believe it when she did.  When
the question is answered in this case, I desire only to have the benefit of it in the case
now before you.  But if you shall be of opinion, that there was some extraordinary power used
on this occasion, and incline to think that the expression, their eyes were holden, imports
as much;  then the case will fall under the next article.  In which	

	We are to consider Christ's vanishing out of sight; his coming in and going out when the doors
were shut; and such like passages; which, as they fall under one consideration, so I shall
speak to them together.

	But it is necessary first to see what the Apostles affirm distinctly in their accounts of
these facts; for I think more has been said for them, than ever they said, or intended to say
for themselves. In one place [Luke 24:31] it is said, he vanished out of their sight. Which
translation is corrected in the margin of our Bibles thus:  He ceased to be seen of them. 
And the original imports no more. It is said in another place, that the disciples being together,
and the doors shut, Jesus came and stood in the midst of them.   How he came, is not said;
much less is it said that he came through the door, or the keyhole;  and for anything that
is said to the contrary, he might come in at the door, though the disciples saw not the door
open, nor him, till he was in the midst of them.  But the Gentleman thinks these passages prove
that the disciples saw no real body, but an apparition.  I am afraid that the Gentleman, after
all his contempt of apparitions, and the superstition on which they are founded, has fallen
into the snare himself, and is arguing upon no better principles than the common notions which
the vulgar have of apparitions.  Why else does he imagine these passages to be inconsistent
with the reality of Christ's body?  Is there no way for a real body to disappear? Try the experiment
now; do but put out the candles, we shall all disappear.  If a man falls asleep in the day-time,
all things disappear to him; his senses are all locked up; and yet all things about him continue
to be real, and his senses continue perfect.  As shutting out all rays of light would make
all things disappear; so intercepting the rays of light from any particular body, would make
that disappear.  Perhaps something like this was the case; or perhaps something else, which
we know not.  But, be the case what it will, the Gentleman's conclusion is founded on no principle
of true philosophy:  for it does not follow that a body is not real because I lose sight of
it suddenly.  I shall be told, perhaps, that this way of accounting for the passages is as
wonderful, and as much out of the common course of things, as the other.  Perhaps it is so;
and what then?  Surely the Gentleman does not expect, that, in order to prove the reality of
the greatest miracle that ever was, I should shew that there was nothing miraculous in it,
but that everything happened according to the ordinary course of things.  My only concern is,
to shew, that these passages do not infer, that the body of Christ after the resurrection was
no real body.  I wonder the Gentleman did not carry his argument a little further, and prove,
that Christ, before his death, had no real body; for we read, that when the multitude would
have thrown him down a precipice,  he went through the midst of them unseen.  Now, nothing
happened after his resurrection more unaccountable than this that happened before it; and if
the argument be good at all, it will be good to prove, that there never was such a man as Jesus
in the world.  Perhaps the gentleman may think that this is a little too much to prove:  and
if he does, I hope he will quit the argument in one case as well as in the other; for difference
there is none.

	Hitherto we have been called upon to prove the reality of Christ's body, and that it was the
same after the resurrection that was before: but the next objection complains, that the body
was too much the same with that which was buried; for the Gentleman thinks that it had the
same mortal wounds open and uncured of which he died.  Is it here affirmed that Thomas did
actually put his hand into his side, or so much as see his wounds fresh and bleeding?  Nothing
like it: but it is supposed from the words of Christ; for if he had no wounds, he would not
have invited Thomas to probe them.  Now, the meaning of Christ will best appear by an account
of the occasion he had to use this speech.  Now, in the first place, here is nothing  said
of open wounds; Thomas talks only of putting his finger into the print, that is, the scar of
the nails, and thrusting his hand into his side.  And, in common speech, to thrust an hand
into any one's side does not signify to thrust it through the side into the bowels.  Upon this
interpretation of the words, which is a plain and natural one, the Gentleman's objection is
quite gone. But suppose Thomas to mean what the Gentleman means; in that case the words of
Christ are manifestly a severe reproach to him for his infidelity: Here, says Christ, are my
hands and my side; take the satisfaction you require; thrust your fingers into my hands, your
hand into my side; repeating to him his own words, and calling him to his own conditions; which,
to a man beginning to see his extravagance, is of all rebukes the severest.  Such forms of
speech are used on many occasions, and are never understood to import that the thing proposed
is proper, or always practicable.  When the Grecian women reproached their sons with cowardice,
and called to them as they were flying from the enemy, to come and hide themselves, like children
as they were, in their mothers' wombs; he would be ridiculous who had asked the question, Whether
the women really thought they could take their sons into their wombs again?

	I have now gone through the objections which were necessarily to be removed  before I could
state the evidence in this case.  I am sensible I have taken up too much of your time; but
I have this to say in my excuse, That objections built on popular notions and prejudices, are
easily conveyed to the mind in few words; and so conveyed, make strong impressions: but whoever
answers the objections, must encounter all the notions to which they are allied, and to which
they owe their strength; and it is well if with many words he can find admittance.

	I come now to consider the evidence on which our belief of the resurrection stands.  And here
I am stopped again.  A general exception is taken to the evidence, that it is imperfect, unfair;
and a question is asked, Why did not  Christ appear publickly to all the people, especially
to the magistrates?  Why were some witnesses culled and chosen out, and others excluded ? It
may be sufficient perhaps to say, that where there are witnesses enow, no judge, no jury complains
for want of more; and therefore, if the witnesses we have are sufficient, it is no objection
that we have not others, and more. If three credible man attest a will, which are as many as
the law requires, would any body ask, why all the town were not called to set their hands?
But why were these witnesses culled and chosen out?  Why? For this reason, that they might
be good ones.  Does not every wise men chuse proper witnesses to his deed and to his will?
and does not a good choice of witnesses give strength to every deed? How comes it to pass,
then, that the very thing which shuts out all suspicion in other cases should in this case
only be of all others the most suspicious thing itself?

	What reason there is to make any complaints on the behalf of the Jews, may be judged, in part,
from what has already appeared.  Christ suffered openly in their sight; and they were so well
apprised of his prediction, that he should rise again, that they set a guard on his sepulchre;
and from their guards they learned the truth.  Every soldier was to them a witness of the resurrection
of their own chusing.  After this they had not one apostle,(which the Gentleman observes was
the case of other people), but all the apostles, and many other witnesses with them, and in
their power.  The apostles testified the resurrection to them; not only to the people, but
to the elders of Israel assembled in Senate: to support their evidence they were enabled to
work, and did work miracles openly in the name of Christ.  These people therefore have the
least reason to complain; and had of all others the fullest evidence; and in some respects
such as none but themselves could have, for they only were keepers of the sepulchre.I believe,
if the gentleman was to chuse an evidence to his own  satisfaction in a like case, he would
desire no more, than to keep the sepulchre, with a sufficient number of guards.

	But the argument goes further.  It is said, that Jesus was sent with a special commission
to the Jews; that he was their Messias; and as his resurrection was his main credential, he
ought to have appeared publickly to the rulers of the Jews after his resurrection: that in
doing otherwise, he acted like an ambassador pretending authority  from his prince, but refusing
to show his letters of credence.

	I was afraid, when I suffered myself to be drawn into this argument, that I should be led
into matters fitter to be decided by men of another profession, than by lawyers.  But since
there is no help now, I will lay before you what appears to me to be the natural and plain
account of this matter; leaving it to others, who are better qualified, to give a fuller answer
to the objection.

